{"id": "2062478", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2062478", "title": "Henry Cromwell", "text": "Henry Cromwell\n\nHenry Cromwell (20 January 1628 – 23 March 1674) was the fourth son of Oliver Cromwell and Elizabeth Bourchier, and an important figure in the Parliamentarian regime in Ireland.\n\nHenry Cromwell – the fourth son of Oliver Cromwell – was born at Huntingdon on 20 January 1628. \n\nHe was educated at Felsted School and Emmanuel College, Cambridge.\n\nHenry Cromwell entered the New Model Army towards the close of the First Civil War, and was in 1647 either a captain in Harrison's regiment or the commander of Fairfax's lifeguard. Heath and Wood identify him with the commandant of the life-guard. In the summer of 1648 Henry Cromwell appears to have been serving under his father in the north of England.\n\nIn February 1650 Cromwell had attained the rank of colonel, and followed his father to Ireland with reinforcements. He and Lord Broghill defeated Lord Inchiquin near Limerick in April 1650. In 1653 Cromwell was nominated one of the representatives of Ireland in the Barebones Parliament. \n\nOn 22 February 1654 Henry Cromwell was enrolled in Gray's Inn (this was merely an honorary registration).\n\nAfter the dissolution of that parliament and the establishment of the Protectorate, his father despatched him to Ireland on a mission of inquiry to discover the feelings of the Irish officers towards the new government, and to counteract the influence of the Anabaptists. He reported that the army in general, with the exception of the Anabaptists, were well satisfied with the recent change, and recommended that Ludlow, of whose venomous discontent and reproachful utterances he complains, should be replaced as lieutenant-general by John Desborough. Charles Fleetwood, though a staunch supporter of the protectorate, he regarded as too deeply involved with the Anabaptist party to be safely continued in Ireland, and advised his recall to England after a time, and the appointment of Desborough to act as his deputy. Before leaving Ireland he held a discussion with Ludlow on the lawfulness of the protectorate, which the latter has recorded at length in his \"Memoirs\".\n\nIn August 1654 a new Irish council was commissioned, and the council of state voted that Cromwell should be appointed commander of the Irish army and a member of the new council. This appointment seems to have been made at the request of Lord Broghill and other Irish gentlemen. In spite of this pressure it was not till 25 December 1654 that Cromwell became a member of the Irish council, though the date of his commission as major-general of the forces in Ireland was 24 Aug. 1654. The cause of this delay was probably Cromwell's reluctance to advance his sons (see Carlyle, Cromwell, Letter cxcix.) Whatever the Protector's intentions may have been, and there are several references in the letters of John Thurloe and Henry Cromwell which prove that this reluctance was real, Fleetwood was re-called to England very soon after the coming of Henry Cromwell to Ireland. He landed in Ireland in July 1655, and Fleetwood left in September. The latter still retained his title of lord-lieutenant, so that Cromwell was merely his deputy — the position which he had intended Desborough to fill. The object of the change in the government of Ireland was to substitute a settled civil government for the rule of a clique of officers, and to put an end to the influence of the Anabaptists, who had hitherto monopolised the direction of the government. The policy of Cromwell towards the native Irish was very little milder than that of his predecessor. His earliest letters show him zealously engaged in shipping young women and boys to populate Jamaica. He suggested to Thurloe the exportation of fifteen hundred or two thousand young boys of twelve or fourteen years of age. He does not seem to have sought to mitigate the rigour of the transplantation, or to have considered it either unjust or impolitic. On the other hand, his religious views were more liberal, and he remonstrated against the oath of abjuration imposed on the Irish Catholics in 1657.\n\nWhat distinguished Cromwell's administration from that of Fleetwood was the different policy adopted by him towards the English colony in Ireland. Instead of conducting the government in the interests of the soldiery, and in accordance with their views, he consulted the interests of the old settlers, the ancient Protestant inhabitants of Ireland, and was repaid by their confidence and admiration. A letter addressed to the Protector by Vincent Gookin, at a time when there was some danger of Cromwell's resignation or removal, shows the feelings with which this party regarded his rule.\n\nThe Presbyterians and the more moderate sects of Independents, hitherto oppressed by the predominance enjoyed by the Anabaptists, expressed a like satisfaction with his government. With the Anabaptist leaders Cromwell had, in January 1656, an interview, in which he very plainly stated his intentions towards them. \"I told them plainly that they might expect equal liberty in their spiritual and civil concernments with any others; and ... that I held myself obliged in duty to protect them from being imposed upon by any; as also to keep them from doing the like to others. Liberty and countenance they might expect from me, but to rule me, or to rule with me, I should not approve of\". This line of conduct he faithfully followed in spite of many provocations. His adversaries were powerful in England, and continually at the ear of the Protector; but Oliver, though chary of praise, and not giving his son all the public support he expected, approved of his conduct in this matter. At the same time he warned him against being \"over jealous\", and \"making it a business to be too hard\" for those who contested with him.\n\nC. H. Firth states in the \"Dictionary of National Biography\" that in truth Henry's great weakness lay in the fact that he was too sensitive and irritable. His letters are a long series of complaints, and he continually talks of resigning his office. One of the first of his troubles was the mutinous condition of Ludlow's regiment, which he took the precaution of disbanding as soon as possible. Then, without Cromwell's knowledge, petitions were got up by his partisans for his appointment to Fleetwood's post, which afforded Hewson and other Anabaptists the opportunity of public protests on behalf of their old commander, in which they identified the deputy's supporters with the enemies of the godly interest. In November 1656 two generals and a couple of colonels simultaneously threw up their commissions on account of their dissatisfaction with Henry's policy.\n\nJust as Cromwell was congratulating himself that the opposition of the Anabaptists was finally crushed, he was involved in fresh perplexities by the intrigues and resignation of Steele, the Irish Chancellor. After the second foundation of the protectorate by the \"Petition and Advice\", Cromwell was at length appointed Lord-Lieutenant by commission dated 16 November 1657. His new rank gave him more dignity and more responsibility, but did not increase his power or put an end to his difficulties. His promotion was accompanied by the appointment of a new Irish council, \"the major art of whom\", wrote Henry to his brother Richard, \"were men of a professed spirit of contradiction to whatsoever I would have, and took counsel together how to lay wait for me without a cause\". His popularity was shown by a vote of parliament on 8 June 1657, settling upon him lands to the value of £1,500 a year, which he refused on the ground of the poverty of Ireland and the indebtedness of England.\n\nAt the time of Cromwell's appointment the pay of the Irish army was eight months in arrears, and £180,000, owing from the English exchequer, was necessary to clear the engagements of the Irish government. The difficulty of obtaining this money, as also the appointment of the hostile councillors, he attributed to his adversaries in the Protector's council. \"Those who were against my coming to this employment, by keeping back our monies have an after game to play, for it is impossible for me to continue in this place upon so huge disadvantages\". He was also charged to disband a large part of the Irish army, but not allowed to have a voice in the management of disbanding.\n\nCromwell endeavoured to devise means of raising the money to pay them in Ireland, but found the country was too poor, and the taxes far heavier than in England. By using the utmost economy he wrote that £196,000 might suffice for the present, but all he seems to have obtained was the promise of £30,000. In the opinion of Firth, to have succeeded under such unfavourable circumstances in maintaining tranquillity and apparent contentment is no small proof of Cromwell's ability as a ruler. \"The hypocrisy of men may be deep\", he wrote in April 1658, \"but really any indifferent spectator would gather, from the seeming unanimity and affection of the people of Ireland, that his highness’s interest is irresistible here\". The adversaries who rendered the task of governing Ireland so burdensome appear to have been the leaders of the military party who surrounded the Protector. Henry Cromwell frequently refers to them in terms of dislike and distrust, especially in his letters to Thurloe during 1657 and 1658. He considered them as opposed to any legal settlement and desirous to perpetuate their own arbitrary power.\n\nOn the question of the acceptance of the crown offered to his father in 1657 his own views were almost exactly the same as those of the Protector himself. From the first Henry held the constitution sketched in the articles of the \"Petition and Advice\" to be \"a most excellent structure\", and was taken by the prospect of obtaining a parliamentary basis for the protectorate. But the title of king, \"a gaudy feather in the hat of authority\", he held a thing of too slight importance to be the subject of earnest contention. Both directly and through Thurloe he urged his father to refuse the title, but to endeavour to obtain the new constitutional settlement offered him by parliament with it.\n\nThe sudden dissolution of the Second Protectorate Parliament in February 1658 was a great blow to Cromwell's hopes of settlement, and he expressed his fears lest the Protector should be induced again to resort to non-legal or extra-legal ways of raising money. Now John Lambert was removed, the odium of such things would fall nearer his highness. Errors in raising money were the most compendious ways to cause a general discontent. He advised the calling of a new parliament as soon as possible, but it should be preceded by the remodelling of the army and the cashiering of turbulent officers. He opposed the proposal to tax the cavalier party promiscuously, but approved the imposition of a test on all members of the approaching parliament.\n\nCromwell's great aim was to found the protectorate on as broad a basis as possible, to free it from the control of the military leaders, and to rally to its support as many of the royalists and old parliamentarians as possible. He knew that the maintenance of the existing state of affairs depended solely on the life of the Protector. The news of his father's illness and the uncertainty as to his successor redoubled Cromwell's fears. The announcement that the Protector had before dying nominated Richard Cromwell was very welcome to Henry. \"I was relieved by it\", he wrote to Richard, \"not only upon the public consideration, but even upon the account of the goodness of God to our poor family, who hath preserved us from the contempt of the enemy\".\n\nThere is no sign that Cromwell ever sought or desired the succession himself. As the Protector's death had determined his existing commission as lord deputy, he now received a new one, but with the higher title of Lieutenant and Governor-General. It was with great reluctance that Cromwell was persuaded to accept the renewal of his commission. He was anxious to come over to England, not only for the benefit of his own health, but (after he had agreed to continue in the government of Ireland) in order to confer with Richard and his friends in England on the principles of Irish policy, and on the prospects and plans of the new government in England. But both Thurloe and Lord Broghill strongly urged him not to come. The former wrote that his continuance in Ireland, and at the head of so good an army, was one of the greatest safeguards of his brother's rule in England, and Broghill added, \"Neither Ireland nor Harry Cromwell are safe if separated\". At Dublin, therefore, he remained watching with anxiety the gathering of the storm in England, and hoping that parliament would bring some remedy to the distempers of the army.\n\nThe meetings of the officers in London and the manifesto published by them roused him to vehement expostulation on 20 October 1658 with Fleetwood, whom they had petitioned the Protector to appoint commander-in-chief. He was wroth at the slight to his brother, but still more at the aspersions cast on his father's memory, and, above all things, distressed by the prospect of renewed civil war. For the next few months Cromwell's letters are unusually few and short, caused in part by his attacks of illness, in part by the tact that he knew his letters were not secure.\n\nCromwell's numerous correspondents in England kept him well informed of the progress of events there, but he bitterly complains that for some time before the dissolution of the Third Protectorate Parliament he had received no letters from the Protector. In answer to the letter of the English army leaders which announced the fall of his brother's government, he sent an ambiguous reply assuring them of the peaceable disposition of the Irish army, and commissioning three officers to represent their views in England. It is plain that he regarded his brother still as the legitimate governor, and was prepared to act for his restoration if so commanded.\n\nDuring this period of suspense the hopes of the Royalists (Cavaliers) rose high, and more than one overture was made to Henry on behalf of Charles II. Lord Falconbridge and possibly Lord Broghill seem to have been the agents employed in this negotiation. But nothing was more opposed to the views of Henry than to promote the restoration of the Stuarts. \"My opinion\", he wrote on 21 March 1659, \"is that any extreme is more tolerable than returning to Charles Stuart. Other disasters are temporary and may be mended; those not\".\n\nThe principles Cromwell had expressed in his reproof to Fleetwood forbade him to use his army for personal ends, or seek to impose its will on the nation. Accordingly, after vainly awaiting the expected instructions from Richard, and receiving from others credible notice of his brother's acquiescence in the late revolution, Henry on 15 June forwarded his own submission to the new government. Before receiving this letter parliament (the restored Rump) on 7 June had ordered him to deliver up the government of Ireland and return to England. Obeying their orders he reached England about the end of June, gave an account of his conduct there to the council of state on 6 July, and then retired to Cambridgeshire.\n\nFor or the remainder of his life Cromwell lived in obscurity. He lost, in consequence of the Restoration, lands in England to the value of £2,000 a year, probably his share of the forfeited estates which had been conferred on his father. With the pay he had received during his service in Ireland he had purchased an estate worth between six and seven hundred a year, which he succeeded in retaining.\n\nIn his petition to Charles II for that object, Cromwell urged that his actions had been dictated by natural duty to his father, not by any malice against the king. He pleaded the merits of his government of Ireland, and the favour he had shown the Royalists during the time of his power.Clarendon, Ormonde, and many other royalists exerted their influence in his favour. Accordingly, the lands of Cromwell in Meuth and Connaught were confirmed to his trustees by a special proviso of the Act of Settlement; but his family seems to have lost them in the next generation. They are said to have been illegally dispossessed by some of the Clanrickarde family, the ancient owners of the land bought by Henry Cromwell's arrears. During the latter years of his life Cromwell resided at Spinney Abbey in Wicken, Cambridgeshire, which he purchased in 1661.\n\nKing Charles II seems to have been satisfied of Cromwell's peaceableness, for though more than once denounced by informers, he was never disquieted on that account. Noble collects several anecdotes of doubtful authority concerning the relations of Charles II and Cromwell. He died on 23 March 1674 (O.S.) in the forty-seventh year of his age, and was buried at Wicken Church in Cambridgeshire.\n\nOn 10 May 1653 Cromwell married Elizabeth (died 7 April 1687), daughter of Sir Francis Russell. They had five sons and two daughters, the history of whose descendants is elaborately traced by Noble and Waylen. His second son, Henry Cromwell, married Hannah Hewling, sister of the two Hewlings executed in 1686 for their share in Monmouth's rebellion, and died in 1711, a major in Fielding's regiment.\n\n\nAttribution\n\n"}
{"id": "2062480", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2062480", "title": "Uralvagonzavod", "text": "Uralvagonzavod\n\nUralVagonZavod () is a Russian machine building company located in Nizhny Tagil, Russia.\n\nIt is one of the largest scientific and industrial complexes in Russia and the largest main battle tank manufacturer in the world.\n\nThe name \"Уралвагонзавод\" means \"Ural Railroad Car Factory\".\n\nThe plant was built during 1931-1936 (mostly during the second five-year plan), launched on October 11, 1936, and named after Felix Dzerzhinsky. Initially it manufactured freight cars.\n\nAfter the German invasion of 1941, Stalin ordered hundreds of factories in Ukraine and western Russia to be evacuated east. The KhPZ Factory No. 183 in Kharkiv was moved to Nizhny Tagil by rail, and merged with the Dzerzhinsky Works, to form the Stalin Ural Tank Factory No. 183. During the second world war it became the largest producer of tanks in the world, including the T-34. After the war, tank production was scaled down, and part of the Vagonka's manufacturing and design assets were transferred back to Kharkiv's Diesel Factory No. 75 during 1945–51.\n\nAfter the war it was expanded to produce machinery of other destinations: agricultural, construction, aviation, and space, including design and production of the Vostok, Voskhod, Proton and Energia expendable rockets.\n\nIt is the location of the Kartsev-Venediktov Design Bureau (OKB-520) where the T-54A and T-55 (development of Morozov's T-54), T-62, T-72, and T-90 tanks have been designed, and was working on one possibility for a next generation main battle tank, rumored to be called the T-95, until this project was cancelled in May 2010. It also manufactures Russia's newest Main Battle Tank, the T-14 Armata.\n\nIts gradual privatization was planned, beginning in 2006.\nAs of December 27, 2016, UVZ has been transferred to Rostec, following a presidential decree.\n\nThe company's main products include railway cars, tanks, road-building vehicles, agricultural vehicles, metallurgical products, tools and consumer goods.\n\nProduction of T-90 main battle tanks accounts for 18–20% of the company's overall production. In 2008, Uralvagozavod produced about 175 tanks: 62 T-90A for the Russian Ministry of Defence, 60 T-90S for India . This represents the highest level of tank production at UralVagonZavod and in Russia as a whole since 1993. Moreover, according to Moscow Defense Brief, it would appear that in 2008 the number of tanks produced by the company was greater than the number of main battle tanks produced in all the other countries of the world taken together.\n\nRailway cars and other civilian production amounted to 2/3 of the company's overall output in 2008.\n\nIn 2011, the company's revenue was $3 billion, and net profit was $0.33 billion.\n\nStructure of the holding:\n\nOn July 16, 2014, the Obama administration imposed sanctions through the US Department of Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) by adding Uralvagonzavod and other entities to the Specially Designated Nationals List (SDN) in retaliation for the ongoing Ukrainian crisis, annexation of the Crimean Peninsula by the Kremlin, and the Russian interference in Ukraine.\n\n"}
{"id": "2062484", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2062484", "title": "San Miguel Brewery", "text": "San Miguel Brewery\n\nSan Miguel Brewery Inc. (SMB) is a subsidiary of San Miguel Corporation (SMC) and jointly owned with Kirin Holdings Co. Ltd. The company is the Philippines’ largest brewery with a market share of over 95% as of 2008. The company also operates in China and Southeast Asia.\n\nThe first San Miguel Brewery, Inc. was founded as La Fábrica de Cerveza San Miguel in 1890 by Enrique María Barreto under a Spanish Royal Charter that officially permitted the brewing of beer in the Philippines and incorporated as the first San Miguel Brewery, Inc. in 1913. It was renamed San Miguel Corporation (SMC) in 1963, having grown into one of the Philippines' largest business conglomerates with core interests in alcoholic and non-alcoholic beverages, food, and packaging. The breweries operated as the beer division of SMC until 2007.\n\nThe present San Miguel Brewery, Inc. was incorporated on July 26, 2007 as a subsidiary of SMC and the domestic beer business was spun off into San Miguel Brewery, Inc. on October 1, 2007. In 2009, Kirin Holdings Co. Ltd. of Japan acquired 48.3% of San Miguel Brewery, Inc. from SMC for PHP 8.841 per share.\n\nIn 2010, San Miguel Brewery, Inc. acquired 100% ownership of San Miguel Brewing International Ltd. (SMBIL) from SMC. The acquisition of SMBIL enabled San Miguel Brewery, Inc. to achieve full integration of its domestic and international beer businesses. SMBIL oversees operations in Hong Kong, People’s Republic of China, Indonesia, Thailand and Vietnam.\n\nOn November 6, 2017, SMC announced the consolidation of its beverage businesses into San Miguel Pure Foods Company, Inc. through a share swap deal. San Miguel Pure Foods Company, Inc. will acquire 7.86 billion shares in San Miguel Brewery, Inc. from SMC. As a result, San Miguel Pure Foods Company, Inc. will own 51% of San Miguel Brewery, Inc. After the consolidation, San Miguel Pure Foods Company, Inc. will be renamed San Miguel Food and Beverage, Inc.\n\nThe marker of Fábrica de Cerveza de San Miguel was installed in 1950 at General Solano Street, San Miguel, Manila. It was installed by the Philippines Historical Committee (now National Historical Commission of the Philippines).\n\nOn September 29, 2015, during the 125th anniversary of the founding of San Miguel Brewery, the National Historical Commission of the Philippines installed a historical marker on the San Miguel Headquarters in Mandaluyong City.\n\nSan Miguel Brewery, Inc. became listed in the Philippine Stock Exchange (PSE: SMB) on 12 May 2008.\n\nOn 2 January 2013, trading of its stock was suspended when the rule on the minimum public ownership of listed shares took effect. On 18 February 2013, the company announced that its board of directors had approved the voluntary de-listing of the company from the stock exchange as well as a tender offer to buy back 94.24 million shares – representing the 0.61% public float. On 24 April 2013, the PSE board granted the petition for voluntary delisting filed by the company to take effect on 15 May 2013.\n\nBeer:\n\nNon-alcoholic beverages:\n\nSMB operates six breweries in the Philippines:\n\nSan Miguel Brewing International Ltd. (SMBIL) is a wholly owned subsidiary of SMB which operates subsidiaries in the following countries:\n\nHong Kong and China:\n\nIndonesia:\n\nVietnam:\n\nThailand:\n\n\"NOTE: San Miguel Beer is also produced in Nepal through a licensing agreement with Gorkha Brewery since 2004.\"\n\n\nSoftdrink:\n\nCarbonated water:\n\nAs part of its overseas expansion, San Miguel began its foray into the Spanish market in 1953, setting up the company which would later become San Miguel Spain. Since 1946, there has been a company engaged in the production of malt for medicinal purposes known as La Segarra. In the early 1950s, its key shareholders Enrique Suárez Rezona, Ramón Vidal and Jaime Muñiz made contact with Andrés Soriano, then president of San Miguel Brewery, to allow them to produce beer under the San Miguel name in Spain. In 1953, San Miguel Brewery, Inc. signed the “Manila Agreement”, with the Philippine brewer setting up a new Spanish brewery, La Segarra, S.A.. The company would later be renamed San Miguel Fábricas de Cerveza y Malta, S.A. in 1957, an affiliate of San Miguel Brewery, Inc. which initially held 20% equity share via its Hong Kong subsidiary.\n\nThe company was acquired by Mahou, S.A. from Groupe Danone in 2000, combining to form Spain’s largest brewer, the Mahou-San Miguel Group. On 26 February 2014, San Miguel and Mahou-San Miguel signed a co-operation agreement to promote jointly San Miguel Beer and expand its global footprint.\n\n\nCompany websites:\nBrand websites:\n"}
{"id": "2062485", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2062485", "title": "Esc key", "text": "Esc key\n\nOn computer keyboards, the Esc key (named \"Escape key\" in the international standard series ISO/IEC 9995) is a key used to generate the escape character (which can be represented as ASCII code 27 in decimal, Unicode U+001B, or ). The escape character, when sent from the keyboard to a computer, often is interpreted by software as \"stop\", and when sent from the computer to an external device (including many printers since the 1980s, computer terminals and Linux consoles, for example) marks the beginning of an escape sequence to specify operating modes or characteristics generally.\n\nIt is now generally placed at the top left corner of the keyboard, a convention dating at least to the original IBM PC keyboard, though the key itself originated decades earlier with teletypewriters.\n\nThe keyboard symbol for the ESC key (which may be used when the usual Latin lettering \"Esc\" is not preferred for labelling the key) is standardized in ISO/IEC 9995-7 as symbol 29, and in ISO 7000 \"\"Graphical symbols for use on equipment\"\" as symbol ISO-7000-2029. This symbol is encoded in Unicode as U+238B (⎋).\n\nThe name of the equivalent key on some early Teletype Model 33 keyboards was labeled Alt Mode..., the alternative mode of operation causing the escapement to treat the following one character in a special way. Much later printers and computer terminals that would use escape sequences often would take more than one following byte as part of a special sequence.\n\nThe VT05 CRT did not have an ESC key; the VT50, which came 4 years later, did.\n\nAs most computer users are no longer concerned with the details of controlling their computer's peripherals, the task for which the escape sequences were originally designed, the escape key was appropriated by application programmers, most often to mean \"Stop\". This use continues today in Microsoft Windows's method of escape as a shortcut in dialog boxes for \"No\", \"Quit\", \"Exit\", \"Cancel\", or \"Abort\", as well as a common shortcut key for the \"Stop\" button in many web browsers.\n\nOn machines running Microsoft Windows, prior to the implementation of the Windows key on keyboards, the typical practice for invoking the \"start\" button was to hold down the Control key and press escape. This key combination still works as of Windows 10.\n\nMicrosoft Windows makes use of \"Esc\" for many key shortcuts. Many of these shortcuts have been present since Windows 3.0, through Windows XP, Windows Vista, Windows 7, Windows 8, and Windows 10.\n\nIn macOS, \"Esc\" usually closes or cancels a dialog box or sheet. The ++ combination opens the Force Quit dialog box, allowing users to end non-responsive applications. Another use for the Esc key, in combination with the Command key, is switching to Front Row, if installed.\n\nIn most computer games, the escape key is used as a pause button and/or as a way to bring up the in-game menu, usually containing ways to exit the program.\n\nIn the vi family of text editors, escape is used to switch modes. This usage is due to escape being conveniently placed in what is now the tab position on the ADM-3A terminal keyboard used to develop vi, though it is now inconveniently placed. This is similar to how the extensive modifier keys in Emacs were easily used on the original keyboard (the space-cadet keyboard), being placed together, but these keys have now been spread around the keyboard, becoming more difficult to use.\n\nOld keyboard Send/Receive (KSR) printers, and visual display units (VDUs), would normally be controlled by escape sequences sent by the computer to the peripheral device, but there were situations where these devices could be used \"off-line\" with the keyboard effectively connected to the output device, and so the need could arise to type escape sequences \"by hand\" to control the peripheral. Although such devices are long out of use, standard processing of ANSI Escape sequences very similar to the 1970s VT100, is implemented in both ANSI.SYS and other more modern pseudo-terminal interfaces used in Unix-like environments, one example being Linux consoles, meaning newer, higher-level abstractions haven't changed the fact that typing the escape key followed by something like the six characters \"[32;1m\" affects subsequently text in output, in this case turning it green.\n"}
{"id": "2062495", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2062495", "title": "Maximum Exposure", "text": "Maximum Exposure\n\nMaximum Exposure (also known as Max X) is an American reality TV video clips on a variety of subjects, ran from October 7, 2000 until May 25, 2002. As its various slogans attest, the show was targeted at teens and young adults. The program also showed videos from other reality shows, especially its predecessor \"Real TV\", and was noted both for its fast-paced action and its analysis of slow-motion replays.\n\nCam Brainard (better known as the narrator of \"This Week in Baseball\" and the announcer for Disney Channel) narrated the show, while credited as the \"Smart-Aleck Announcer Dude.\" Each episode was an hour long and aired in syndication from 2000 to 2002, with reruns until 2004. Reruns now air on WGN America and in some syndication markets. The show was produced by Paramount Domestic Television and RTV News. The Executive Producers were Mack and Bradley Anderson of First Television. At one point, it was re-aired on Spike TV and the Fox Reality network. In India, \"Maximum Exposure\" is currently being aired on Spark Big CBS channel. In Estonia \"Meeletu Maailm\" (Maximum Exposure) is currently being aired on TV6. In Australia the program aired on FOX8 from 2006 to 2007 and reruns are still aired from time to time. While in Malaysia, the show had previously been aired in TV2 from 2002 to 2003. In 2006 the show aired on ABC-5 now (The 5 Network) in the Philippines that was given the own local name titled Todo Max and was hosted by Gladys Guevarra with the narrator co-host Nicole Hyala and Chris Tsuper of Love Radio. On AXN, where the series was formerly aired, have only broadcast 13 episodes in both Seasons 1 and 2 due to censorhips on immature content which is not suitable for child viewers.\n\nMax X had a series of running gags throughout the duration of the show.\n\nEach episode of the 52 produced for the series had a particular theme:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2062501", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2062501", "title": "Cowboy (album)", "text": "Cowboy (album)\n\nCowboy is the eighth studio album by Erasure, released in 1997 by Mute Records in the UK. In the U.S., it was released by Madonna's former label Maverick Records. \"Cowboy\" was produced by Gareth Jones and Neil McLellan and marked the band's return to more simplistic three-minute synthpop music.\n\nAfter disappointing sales and chart placing of their last studio album \"Erasure\", \"Cowboy\" returned the duo to the Top 10 of the UK Albums Chart and it contains three singles (two of which hit the UK Top 30). In the U.S., \"Cowboy\" greatly improved Erasure's \"Billboard\" 200 peak over their previous album and first single \"In My Arms\" gave them another Hot 100 entry. Sales also improved in Germany, where \"Cowboy\" peaked at number thirty-four.\n\nThe album contains eleven Vince Clarke/Andy Bell originals in its UK version. For its U.S. release, the album artwork was changed slightly, the original version of \"In My Arms\" was replaced with a slightly-different US mix and two bonus tracks were added: a cover version of Blondie's \"Rapture\" (with Clarke providing the rap); and a version of the Burt Bacharach/Hal David song \"Magic Moments\" that Erasure had contributed to the \"Lord of Illusions\" soundtrack.\n\nErasure embarked on another major tour of the UK and U.S. to promote this album, in their trademark style it contained elaborate stage settings and costumes (including Clarke dressed as a guitar-playing cactus).\n\nAll tracks written by Andy Bell and Vince Clarke, except where noted.\n\n\nSubsequent to their acquisition of Erasure's back catalog, and in anticipation of the band's 30th anniversary, BMG commissioned reissues of all previously released UK editions of Erasure albums up to and including 2007's \"Light at the End of the World\". All titles were pressed and distributed by Play It Again Sam on 180-gram vinyl and shrinkwrapped with a custom anniversary sticker.\n\n"}
{"id": "2062503", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2062503", "title": "Texas's 9th congressional district", "text": "Texas's 9th congressional district\n\nTexas's 9th congressional district of the United States House of Representatives includes the southwestern portion of the Greater Houston area in Texas. The current Representative for the district, since 2005, is Democrat Al Green. \n\nFrom 1967 to 2005, the 9th covered an area stretching from Galveston through Houston to Beaumont. Much of that area is now the 2nd district. Most of the area now in the 9th was in the 25th district from 1983 to 2005.\n\nFrom 1967 to 2005 the district included the Johnson Space Center, and from 1935 to 2005 it took in Galveston.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2062508", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2062508", "title": "Floppy disk format", "text": "Floppy disk format\n\nFloppy disk format and density refer to the logical and physical layout of data stored on a floppy disk. Since their introduction, there have been many popular and rare floppy disk types, densities, and formats used in computing, leading to much confusion over their differences. In the early 2000s, most floppy disk types and formats became obsolete, leaving the -inch disk, using an IBM PC compatible format of 1440 KB, as the only remaining popular format.\n\nDifferent floppy disk types had different recording characteristics, with varying magnetic coercivity (measured in oersteds, or in modern SI units in amperes per meter), ferrite grain size, and tracks per inch (TPI). TPI was not a part of the physical manufacturing process; it was a certification of how closely tracks of data could be spaced on the medium safely.\n\nThe term density has a double meaning for floppy disks. Originally, single density and double density indicated a difference in logical encoding on the same type of physical media -- FM for single, and MFM for double. Future use of the term \"density\" referred to physical characteristics of the media, with MFM assumed to be the logical format used. GCR was also used on some platforms, but typically in a \"double\" density form.\n\n8- and -inch floppy disks were available with both soft sectoring and hard sectoring. Because of the similarity in magnetic characteristics between some disk types, it was possible to use an incorrectly certified disk in a soft sectored drive. Quad density -inch disks were rare, so it was not uncommon to use higher quality double density disks, which were usually capable of sustaining the 96 TPI formatting of quad density, in drives such as the Commodore 8050.\n\nDisks were available in both single and double sided forms, with double sided formats providing twice the storage capacity. Like TPI, \"double sided\" was mostly a certification indicator, as the magnetic media was usually recordable on both sides. Many (but not all) certified \"double sided\" 8- and -inch floppies had an index hole on both sides of the disk sleeve to make them usable as flippy disks.\n\nA combination floppy disk and optical disc, known as a Floptical disk exists. The size of a -inch (90 mm) disk, they are capable of holding close to 20.8 MB, but need a special drive.\n\nThe formatted disk capacity is always less than the \"raw\" unformatted capacity specified by the disk's manufacturer, because some portion of each track is used for sector identification and for gaps (empty spaces) between sectors and at the end of the track.\n\nIn hard-sectored 8-inch and -inch formats, each track is divided into a particular number of sectors determined when the disk is manufactured. Holes are punched in the magnetic media to indicate where each sector should start (in an area closer to the center of the disk than is used for magnetic recording). An additional hole is punched near one of the sector holes to identify the start of the track. A sensor in the drive detects the holes in the magnetic media as they align with a hole in the disk jacket.\n\nData is generally written at a fixed number of bits per second, with only a very small percentage of variation due to component tolerances, so given the nominal speed that the disk rotates it is possible to calculate the number of degrees a given number of bytes will occupy when written. In practice the motor speed varies, especially from one drive to another, resulting in those bytes occupying more degrees of the track at high motor speeds or fewer degrees at low motor speeds.\n\nWhen a soft-sectored disk is low-level \"formatted\", each track is written with a number of bytes calculated to fit within 360 degrees at the highest expected motor speed. Special bit patterns are written right before the location where a sector should start, and serve as identifiers, similar to the punched holes used by hard-sectored disks. Therefore the system of punched holes is not needed, only a single hole is retained to indicate the start of the track (-inch disks use an alignment pin rather than a hole). If the motor is spinning any slower than the highest acceptable speed, which is usually the case, the data will fit in fewer than 360 degrees, resulting in a gap at the end of the track. Additionally, if a sector were to be rewritten on a drive running faster than the drive was running when the track was formatted, the new data would be larger (occupy more degrees of rotation) than the original sector. Therefore, during formatting a gap must be left between sectors to allow a rewritten sector to be larger without over-writing the following sector.\n\nCommodore's Amiga used an unusual format which got closer to the disk's raw (unformatted) capacity by eliminating the gaps between sectors and simplifying the identification data. This meant that individual sectors could not be rewritten; the Amiga would simply rewrite the entire track.\n\n\"Formatted\" capacity numbers are based on the resulting number of logical sectors and the byte payload they can carry, that is, they depend on the physical parameters and modulation, but are independent of a particular file system. Sometimes floppies are superformatted to use more tracks or sectors per track to accommodate slightly more data. Some floppy-based Linux distributions utilize such techniques. For comparison purposes, formatted capacities given in this section assume standard disk geometries as they are supported by common operating systems in their default configuration.\n\nThe maximum \"usable\" capacity is file-system and configuration specific and always lower than the formatted capacity, since the file system occupies a number of the available sectors for control structures as well.\n\nMost floppy disks used by PCs use the FAT12 file system format, which imposes certain practical defaults on the logical geometry in order to be recognizable by all operating systems. Sometimes disks may use a more exotic file system.\n\nSSDD originally referred to Single Sided, Double Density, a format of (usually -inch) floppy disks which could typically hold 35-40 tracks of nine 512-byte (or 18 256-byte) sectors each. Only one side of the disc was used, although some users did discover that punching additional holes into the disc jacket would allow the creation of a \"flippy\" disc which could be manually turned over to store additional data on the reverse side.\n\nSingle-sided disks began to become obsolete after the introduction of IBM PC DOS 1.1 in 1982, which added support for double-side diskette drives with capacity of 320 KB to the IBM 5150 PC. In 1983 PC DOS 2.0 pushed the formatting capacity to 180 KB single-sided or 360 KB double-sided by utilizing 9 instead of only 8 sectors per track.\n\nThroughout the 1970s and 1980s, many different disk formats were used, depending on the hardware platform. Variables included the size of media (nominal 8-inch, -inch, -inch and others), encoding of data on the media (FM, MFM, M²FM, GCR), the number of disk tracks, one or two sides, the number of sectors in each track, and hard- or soft-sectoring. Even media that was physically interchangeable between two systems might not have been usable owing to particulars of the arrangement of data on the disk.\n\n"}
{"id": "2062512", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2062512", "title": "Roko Tui Dreketi", "text": "Roko Tui Dreketi\n\nThe Roko Tui Dreketi is the Paramount Chief of Fiji's Rewa Province and of the Burebasaga Confederacy, to which Rewa belongs.\n\nThis title is considered the second most senior in Fiji's House of Chiefs. The dynasty holding the title is the Tuisawau family. Unlike many other chiefly titles, this one is not reserved for males, as it had become a common occurrence among many other parts of Fiji.\n\nThe present \"Roko Tui Dreketi\" is Ro Teimumu Vuikaba Tuisawau-Kepa, who was the Minister for Education in the Qarase government. She succeeded her late sister Ro Lady Lala Mara, Fiji's former First Lady, in 2004.\n\n\n1. Ro Rawalai \n2. Ro banuve Bativuaka Lutunauga\n\n"}
{"id": "2062536", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2062536", "title": "Small square-spot", "text": "Small square-spot\n\nThe small square-spot (\"Diarsia rubi\") is a moth of the family Noctuidae. The species was first described by Karl Friedrich Vieweg in 1790. It is found in Europe apart from the far south-east then east through the Caucasus, Transcaucasia, Central Asia, Siberia, the Russian Far East and Kamchatka.\nThis is a quite a small species (wingspan 30–38 mm) with dull greyish-pink forewings, varying to red brown, marked with a pale angular mark which gives the species its common name. Forewing with the crosslines and shades olive; the cell brown; reniform with whitish outline; claviform with a dark speck at its end; marginal area dark. The hindwings are pale luteous grey with a pink fringe.\n\nTwo broods are produced each year with the adults flying in May and June and again in August and September. Moths of the second brood are usually smaller and darker than those of the first. The species flies at night and is attracted to light and sugar. It will also visit flowers such as heather and ragwort.\n\nThe larva feeds on a variety of plants: Recorded food plants include raspberry, \"Vaccinium\" and willow. The species overwinters as a larva.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2062537", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2062537", "title": "Anini-y", "text": "Anini-y\n\n', officially the ', (; ; ), is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nDuring the Spanish Era, Anini-y was already an independent town with a Baroque church located on the heart of its town proper. Sometime during the American Period, Anini-y was integrated into the Municipality of Tobias Fornier (formerly Dao). In the 1940s, the town of Anini-y became independent again from the Municipality of Tobias Fornier and Mayor Obaga became the first mayor. The current mayor of the town is Maxfil Belleza Pollicar and Glenn Hernaez as the vice mayor.\n\nAnini-y the southernmost municipality of the province and is from the provincial capital, San Jose de Buenavista.\n\nAccording to the Philippine Statistics Authority, the has a land area of constituting of the total area of Antique.\n\nAnini-y is politically subdivided into 23 barangays.\n\nThe \"barrio\" of San Ramón was formerly the sitio of Igdacoton in the barrio of Magdalena.\n\nIn the , Anini-y had a population of . The population density was .\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2062539", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2062539", "title": "Barbaza", "text": "Barbaza\n\n', officially the ', (; ; ), is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nMajor sources of income of the people are derived from agriculture, fishing, trade and commerce, employment and remittances from abroad. About 94% of the total population have access to potable water. Five health centers serve 39 barangays. There is a 10-bed capacity government hospital manned by 27 health personnel.\n\nTransportation services are generally provided by tricycles, jeepneys, vans and buses. There are also daily buses available going back and forth to Manila that pass by Barbaza via the roll-on/roll-off nautical highway.\n\nLong after the discovery of the Philippines by the Spaniards led by Ferdinand Magellan on March 16, 1521, there was already an established settlement in a place presumably now Barangay Esparar. In later years however, the Moros from Palawan and Mindoro started coming to raid and plunder the inhabitants, and often abducted beautiful maidens and men to be made slaves. Because of fear, the inhabitants moved to a much safer place, in a narrow strip of land at the foot of Mount Dumangsal. The site of the new settlement up to this day is called \"Igtara\". The population rapidly increased. When the Moros stopped coming, they decided to move down to a much wider plain. The settlement started to flourish and later a church and a town hall were built out of bamboo and cogon grass. Today, it is where Barangay Binanu-an stands. Binanu-an means “Ginbanwahan or Binanwahan”.\n\nThe formation of a formal government which was headed either by a \"Teniente\" or a Captain, started at Binanu-an. The settlement in Binanu-an lasted so long until sometime in the 17th century when the inhabitants, again, found a much better place to live in because it is nearer to the sea which yields fish in abundance. They decided to transfer from Binanu-an to the seashore by the bank of the once deep river called Nalupa. The new settlement was named \"Nalupa Nuevo\". Permanent structures like a church and a Municipal Hall were built.\n\nUnfortunately, sometime in the 18th century the settlement suffered another drawback. Dalanas River, one of the bigger rivers in Antique, used to overflow during heavy rains causing destruction to properties and lives of people living near the area. Alarmed by the situation affecting the settlement at Nalupa Nuevo, the Spanish Governor Enrique Barboza ordered to transfer the people to another site called \"Otngol\" which was at that time, part of what is now the town of Laua-an.\n\nDuring the transfer of the settlement from Nalupa to Otngol the Municipal Government was already run by a \"Capitan\". The first \"Capitan\" was ('Tan) Julian Flores. He was later succeeded by ('Tan) Roman Francisco, then by \"Capitan\" Justiniano Ogatis-Barrientos. It was during his administration sometime in 1886 when he worked out for the separation of the town from the Municipality of Laua-an. The town's name was changed to \"Barboza\" in honor of Spanish Governor Enrique Barboza of Antique. The spelling was later changed to \"Barbaza\" because of the difficulty in pronouncing the former name. To this day the town is officially named the Municipality of Barbaza.\n\nIn 1859, the town was transferred from Nalupa Viejo to Otñgol, probably by the order of Governor Barbaza of Antique. Nalupa Viejo was then called Jinalinan and Otñgol was then called Barbaza after the name of the governor. A church was created on the plaza where the present Rizal monument stands. A convent was also created in front of the church. Father Lorenzo Flores, a Filipino priest from Miag-ao was the parish priest of Barbaza. Many people from Nalupa or Jinalinan transferred their residence to Otñgol or Barbaza. When the town was still at Nalupa Viejo or Jinalinan, the cemetery was on the hill outside Esparar, between Esparar and Iglanot. In 1882 and 1887, many people died of cholera. Capitan Fermin Marquez was the president of that town at that time.\n\nIn 1898, the Filipinos rose against the Spanish government. In October of that year, the Filipinos or the insurrectos came here from Culasi. Father Seferino was not here at that time. He was with the priest in Patnongon. In his absence, two priests from the north came here. They were dressed in civilian clothes. They stayed with the Spaniard and his family, the Spaniard’s name was Tolido. On the following mornig, one priest left for the south. Tolido and his family went with him. The other priest stayed and waited for the coming home of Father Zeferino. Then the church was robbed. Garments and tabernacles were stolen. The people gathered around the convent and wept. The priest then gave the keys of the convent to Capitan Fermin Marquez.\n\nThree days after that, Angel Salazar Sr., the Secretary of General Fullon came to Barbaza at about 10:00 in the morning. He went to the Municipal Building and conducted an election. Francisco Ybera was elected president. At 4:00 in the afternoon the insurrectos came. General Fullon stayed in the convent. The insurrectos brought with them seven Spaniards from Culasi as prisoners. The insurrectos stayed in Casa Real or the Municipal Building. Two days after, the insurrectos went to the south leaving the seven Spanish prisoners to Capitan Francisco Ybera. In Bugasong, the insurrectos set the casadores. There was a fight. The insurrectos were losing after a day and a night of fighting. The Filipino soldiers killed, bringing with them their ammunitions. Before they left the place, General Fullon told the people to flee to the mountains. The seven Spaniards from Barbaza were sent to Bugasong by the insurrectos for the fear of the casadores anger for imprisoning those Spaniards. When the Spaniards arrived at Bugasong, they asked mercy from the people of the town, telling them that they have been treated well in Barbaza. At the same time there was also a fight at Culasi and the Filipino soldiers were also defeated. When the cassadores left, Capitan Fermin Marquez and Roman Bautista were made prisoners and were brought to Culasi. They were imprisoned for a month. The insurrectos remained in Barbaza and the nearby mountains for a month until the Americans came.\n\nIn 1901, there was a fight in Labañgan, Barbaza. The insurrectos burned the houses in Barbaza, except the church and the convent. A week later, houses, churches and convents in the barrios were burned except of those in Baghari. That was done by the American soldiers because they were accused of burning the town and because no principal of the town obeyed when the United States Commandant ordered them to appear before him. The Americans sent a Filipino to General Fullon, ordering him to come and meet the American Commandant. Later, General Fullon and his subordinate officers assembled in Carapunan on the other side of Dalanas Riverand talked about a plan for peace. Finally, a meeting and a feast was held in Igpalge. The final peace agreement was made at Jinalinan in the house of Domingo Yongque. All ammunition was turned over by the insurrectos to the Americans. Peace treaties were made and signed by the parties concerned. The Americans ordered a president to be appointed. Capitan Justiniano Barrientos was elected to serve a term from 1901 to 1903.\n\nIn 1902, Father Morales came and requested the people of Barbaza to join the Aglipayan religion. Capitan Justiniano Barrientos and Matao Andres were the ones asked. They replied, “If you want to do something against our established beliefs in God and religion, you may do it in Jinalinan but leave us here to be Romanistas”. So Father Morales and his companions went to Jinalinan and thus the people there became Aglipayans. In 1903, the three towns of Barbaza, Laua-an and Guisijan were joined into one municipality with Laua-an as the town proper. When the term of Capitan Justiniano Barrientos as president expired, Capitan Luis elected to serve from 1904 to 1905. In the same year, Jinalinan had their first Filipino priest. Then Capitan Justiniano Barrientos was again elected to serve for a term from 1906 to 1909. During his second term he worked hard to improve the lot of all people. He cooperated with the Spanish priests. In 1905, Bishop Roober was in Barbaza. In 1908, Fathers Calixto, Vaccing and Juan Fernandez who were priests in Bugasong, made visits up to Pandan. They made many improvements.\n\nA chapel was erected in Barbaza but the typhoon destroyed it in 1903. Then a temporary church was erected among the ruins of the old church in the plaza. In 1909, Capitan Justiniano Barrientos transferred the Municipal Building from Laua-an to Barbaza. His house in Barbaza was used as a municipal building. That gave him more convenience in discharging his duties as head of the town. It was also during his time that Gabaldon building was constructed to be use as school building. This building is one of the present school buildings in Barbaza. Capitan Justiniano Barrientos donated one half hectares of land as site of that school building. In 1908, Father Santiago Cleven, a Mill Hill missionary arrived. He was later succeeded by Father De Vries. Capitan Fermin Marquez succeeded Capitan Justiniano Barrientos. In 1910, Capitan Fermin Marquez built a permanent municipal building (the one that was burned by the Army during World War II).\n\nIn 1910, Father Pedro Stuart succeeded Father Santiago Cleven. Changes were made by the new priest. All people were under the jurisdiction of the priest. Ten years later, a controversy arose between the priest and the people because the priest wanted to take hold of the municipal properties.\n\nThen Father Jose Hinterbuber succeeded Father Stuart. During Father Jose’s time, some improvements in the church’s life were made. He manages the transfer of the church from the plaza to the place where it is now. He erected a new convent and when this was completed, he opened a private school. Classes from grades one to seven were open. The school was called Saint Anthony Parochial School, after the name of the patron saint of the town of Barbaza. Many children attended the private school.\n\nWhen Capitan Fermin died, Antonio Ybera was elected president of the town for three years. The people were disgusted during his time because no improvement in the town was made. In 1917, there was an election. Roman Bautista was elected president of the town. He held that office for three years. He improved the municipal building built during the time of Capitan Fermin. In 1922, there was another election. Rafael Necor was selected president. He improved the town plaza. He planted flowers all around. Antonio Inocentes was his Vice-President. Rafael Necor improved the balcony of the municipal building. He also had that building painted. When another election came, Antonio Inocentes was elected president. A public market was planned to be built. Inocentes wanted to be placed near the plaza but the people made petition and it was later constructed in Sitio Binangbang.\n\nRafael Juanitas was elected President for the term from 1937 to 1940. It was during his incumbency that the public dispensary was constructed. The barrios or construction of new streets to the barrios and named them after him. Pedro Gindap won the election over Rafael Juanitas in the election in 1938. During the term of Pedro Gindap he put up the Rizal monument on the plaza, in the town. He caused the construction of concrete bridges around the town. Concretes linings were made around the town plaza. Later he built up a bandstand on the plaza.\nIn 1941, when the war broke out Pedro Gindap was still the mayor of Barbaza. Destruction of public buildings and private houses were ordered by array officers. In 1942, Mayor Gindap joined the Japanese Imperial Forces which invaded our country. The mayor left the town of Barbaza and stayed with the Japanese in Laua-an. Not long after, the Japanese left Laua-an and fled to San Jose. The mayor went with the Japanese to San Jose for security’s sake. During the absence of Mayor Gindap, Antonio Nacionales was nominated mayor of Barbaza by the guerrilla officers. During the war, the municipal building was in the barrio Binangbang and later it was transferred to Jinalinan. The acting mayor stayed in Jinalinan too. His house was temporarily used as a municipal building. The town was left uncared because his people evacuated to the mountains. Later Antonio Inocentes requested the people to clear the town plaza and have it planted to rice. The crop raised was given to the army. In 1944, the American liberating forces came and liberated Antique from the handle of the Japanese. The people from the mountains returned to their old and forsaken homes. They rebuilt the burned houses and began life anew.\n\nAbout the close of 18th century, as the result of the ravages of war between Spain and the Philippines, numerous lives have been lost and properties turned to ruins and ashes. At the later part of the Spanish rule in the Philippines, people had expected nothing more than that untimely death and destruction brought about by the dauntless insurrection from the hills. It is obvious to say that this poor and little town of Barbaza had been the recipient of those atrocities of war. It is really sad to recall that sometime in the year 1898, those that had risen in arms and fled to the mountains came down to town and burned everything they found. Nothing was left behind to the suffering masses but ashes. The church and all its properties were burned. “Rise in arms” was the password of those who had opened their eyes to the rule of Spain. The roar of guns and cannons were heard in the town.\n\nLater at the earlier part of 1901, Americans came and wanted to put down the rule of Spain. The coward Spaniards fled and left the populace to the mercy of Americans. The church, convents and municipal buildings were burned first and later the houses of the people until the whole town was set to flame. Not a single barrio was left unburned. The Americans gained full control of the town. At the very start of their rule, they introduce their own form of government which is democratic in nature. That of Spain was entirely different. Her aim was to spread the Catholic faith. The Americans aimed to train us in the art of a democratic life. The Filipinos had established a great liking to this and progress toward higher standard of civilization was in full measure when the World War II came. At the end of December 1941, the ruthless Japanese came after the bombing of the Pearl Harbor and the horrible of our army on Bataan and Corregidor. Before their coming to this town, our soldiers came. They burned our church, convent and our newly constructed municipal building and nearly all the houses in towns and barrios. The most touching among all those burnings was the burning of our school building and school properties. That marked the beginning of slow-down of learning. People had to flee to the mountains with few things with them. There they had to expect enemies’ penetration and uncertain death to able bodied men joined the army and offered their lives for their country and love ones behind them. Those who died in line of service were Gonzalo Pecaoco, Leonardo Gindap, Rafael Nambong, Joaquin Andres and many others. In the mountains, our businessman Silvestre Pecaoco met his untimely death from the hands of the Japanese on the shore at Ipil. The Japanese were really wicked aggressors. They ended the life of our good Mayor, Rafael Juanitas, Alfredo Pedrosa, our lawyer and politician japes and met his untimely death from the hands of his own townsmen. A great number had died in the remote mountains.\n\nIt took years for the people of this town to hurdle these sufferings and tribulations of war, when at last the long awaited liberation day came. General McArthur fulfilled his promise “I shall return” on his going home to the United States from the Philippines after the fall of Bataan and Corregidor. People came down from the mountains where they evacuated filled with joy. Now, they had to start a new life over again in town. People built their temporary homes. The church was reconstructed and a temporary convent was built. The priest continued his daily church services. Continuation of classes was immediately opened in private houses until the ruins of Gabaldon Building were put up again. The municipal building was also temporary. Other offices had to be held in private houses until the present dilapidated building is set up. A marked progress was later seen when the aid of the American people arrived. Pedro L. Gindap continued his term as Municipal Mayor until 1968 that he was replaced by Fidel Yongque in 1968 and 1972. He returned to power in 1972-1976. His son, Carlo Magno Gimotea Gindap succeeded him from 1977-1985. Mayor David H. Daquila started his term as OIC in 1986 until he won the election in 1988 and gained control of the municipal government of Barbaza for three consecutive terms, 1988 to 1998. He was succeeded by Atty. Jose T. Maghari in LAMMP bet in Barbaza. Hence for the first time in Barbaza, it has seasoned practicing lawyer for a mayor.\n\nIn May 14, 2007, under the banner slogan “Katimbang sa Pagbag-o” Mayor Faith “Pingping” Estolloso Francisco ascended to power by overwhelming victory as the First lady Mayor and the youngest, the Barbazeños ever elected to the top post.\n\nAccording to the Philippine Statistics Authority, the has a land area of constituting of the total area of Antique.\n\nLocated at the central portion of Antique, Barbaza is north from the provincial capital, San Jose de Buenavista. It has a coastline of along the Sulu Sea. Barbaza has two major rivers, Dalanas river, is the longest and the largest river in Barbaza with a total length of 32 kilometres (19.8 miles) long, the Drainage basin of Dalanas river covered 280 km (108sq.mi). Binangbang River,is Barbaza second longest river. Barbaza has many waterfalls, the Macalbag falls, in mablad, Cadiao falls, in cadiao, Lumbuyan falls in lumbuyan, San Ramon falls, in San Ramon, Marigne falls, in Marigne.\n\nBarbaza is politically subdivided into 39 barangays. It is composed of 22 upland and l7 lowland barangays where upland area accounts for 88.43% of the total land area.\n\nIn the , Barbaza had a population of . The population density was .\n\n\nBarbaza celebrates the annual Batabat Festival, held every 3rd week of March. The feast of Saint Anthony of Padua is celebrated every 13 June.\n\n"}
{"id": "2062540", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2062540", "title": "Belison", "text": "Belison\n\n', officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nBelison is the smallest (in area and population) and the youngest municipality in the province of Antique.\n\nBelison was merely a barangay in the larger municipality of Patnongon, adjacent to the north. Belison barangay leaders and Manila-based \"Belisongnon\"s (Belisong natives) mapped out a petition requesting the national government to make Belison an independent town. The petition was brought to Malacañan Palace on March 10, 1961, and through \"Presidential Executive Order No. 421\" signed by President Carlos P. Garcia, Belison was declared a municipality - the smallest and the youngest in the Province of Antique.\n\nDuring World War II, Japanese war submarines and other marine craft found the shores of Belison easy entry points to Panay, and invaded the Western Visayas in that location. People still tell of the fear created by these foreign intruders, and also of the bravery of those who decided to resist, creating rebel strongholds in the mountainous areas above the municipality.\n\nWhen the Japanese air raids would bomb Belison and the nearby communities, families from all around fled to \"Guinobatan Cave\", high in the hills of barangay Buenavista. And when the American forces came, they too used the smooth sea landing in Belison, bringing relief food supplies to Belisongnons, and troops to attack the Japanese occupying forces. They often used local homes in the area to hide in while planning their strategies for assault against the enemy, and enlisted the help of brave men and women to carry out their plans.\n\nBelison is from the provincial capital, San Jose de Buenavista.\n\nAccording to the Philippine Statistics Authority, the has a land area of constituting of the total area of Antique.\n\nThe municipality is bounded on the east by San Remigio, southeast by Sibalom, south by San Jose de Buenavista, north by Patnongon, and west by the Cuyo East Pass.\n\nBelison is politically subdivided into 11 barangays, each with a duly constituted government unit known as the barangay council headed by the barangay captain. The Poblacion, seat of the municipal government, is an urban barangay. The other 10 are considered rural.\n\nIn the , Belison had a population of . The population density was .\n\nNine (9) of the leading Christian religious dominations in the Philippines established their presence in the town. Most Belisongnons (\"people of Belison\") are of Aglipayan ancestry.\n\nAgriculture continues to be the heartbeat of the town. More than half of its land is riceland, while the rest are planted to corn, coconut, sugar cane and other production like vegetables and peanuts.\n\nThe Belison municipal seal was created to commemorate the agricultural heritage of the town, in order to preserve the legacy of the original settlers in the region. It depicts three mainstay agricultural activities:\n\nSurrounding the great triangle are eleven stars – one representing each barangay in the town. The largest star at the bottom is for the Poblacion. Their strength lies in their connectivity to one another, and in their closeness to the traditions of the past.\n\n"}
{"id": "2062541", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2062541", "title": "Bugasong", "text": "Bugasong\n\n', officially the ', (; ; ), is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nLong before the coming of the Spanish colonizers in the island of Panay, the town of Bugasong, (then a \"balangay\") forerunner of the Spanish influenced pronunciation \"Barangay\") was already a thriving settlement. It was settled by the early Malayans, who immigrated from Borneo sometime in the 13th century. Its aborigines-were the Atis or Negritos, the original settlers of the island of Panay. The early immigrants settled along the coast and established their own society, founded a government patterned after their government in Borneo. They established farming, fishing, raising of cattle and livestock. Trade with neighboring islands was already a thriving business, notwithstanding that they have also trade relations among the Indo-Chinese traders. They traded their farm products; like rice, sugar, mongo, corn and livestock while the Chinese traders brought along various kinds of clothings, silk, chinawares, jades and other merchandises.\n\nThe early barangay settlement was located between the present Paliwan river and Lumanggab brook which is still known as Jinalinan (meaning the place they have left) and transferred their settlement to another place, now the poblacion of Bugasong. The early settlers were Muslims, for their forebears were indoctrinated by the religion of Islam in the 13th century by Arab missionaries and traders who introduced it. Legend has it that the island of Panay- then called the confederation of Madyaas, whose ranking Chieftain was Datu Sumakwel- was purchased from the Ati Chief Marikudo for one gold sadok (salakot in Pilipino) by Datu Sumakwel and companions, and also one gold necklace for the vanity of datu Sumakwel's wife Maniwantiwan. The Atis then moved to the interior mountains of Panay. After the consummation of the sale, Chieftain Datu Sumakwel divided the island into three districts; namely: Irong-irong (Iloilo), Hantic (Antique) and Aklan which still carries that name. They settled along the coastal plains around the island and established their government. Laws were instituted, and famous among them was the Code of Kalantiaw. The early settlers were industrious. The laws promulgated by Datu Kalantiaw was the bible of the various barangays around the island and it became the forerunner of many later laws enacted by the people.\n\nIn the early days, people were peaceful, cooperative, prosperous and thought that the Spaniards were descendants of God. They were awed by the long cassocks of the friars and the soldier's uniforms. They began to trust them and many of them were indoctrinated into the Christian religion by the friars. Little by little, the friars succeeded in subjugating the people. The people were baptized and many of them have Hispanized their names and surnames, without even knowing what significance their name means.\n\nThe first Roman Catholic Church was founded in 1726 and constructed in 1727 with Friar Bias Urbano as its first parish priest. He was a missionary. The subjugation of the people were really attributable to those priests' for theirs was the confidence and trust of the people whereby the Spanish authorities were able to found and establish their government. The first Cabeza de Barangay (head of the town) was appointed upon the recommendation and, of course, the influence of the friars. In 1743, the first Cabeza de Barangay was \"Sr. Don\" Pedro Jauod. Thus was the town established. It will be noticed, that although most of the people's names and surnames were Hispanized, there still remains the original surnames up to the present time. Like the surnames Magbanua, Magwad, Panaguiton, Managuit, Magdayao, Bangcaya, Paghari-on, Magdato, Maguidgad, Bantolo, Magluyan, Balajediong, Lumugda, Siladan, Tano, Ala, Panlibuton, and many others.\n\nIn the beginning, the office of the Cabeza de Barangay was served by its Cabeza for a year. It began in 1743 up to 1863 or for a period of 120 years until the term Cabeza de Barangay was abolished and changed to Capitan Municipal. In 1863, Sr. Don Miguel Legaspi was appointed First Capitan Municipal. His tenure of office was for two years.\n\nThe name of the town \"Bugason\" was its official name from its founding by the Spaniards, in 1727, and was in use up to the early American regime. It is believed that it was in 1904 during the incumbency of Don Simon Barcelo, the town's third municipal president, that the letter \"g\" was added. As early as 1910, the name Bugasong was already in use.\n\nDuring the early days of the American regime, the term of office of the first municipal president was only for one year. From 1902 to 1912, they held office for two years until the passage of the Jones Law in 1916 where it provided for a three-year term of office. The first municipal president during the American regime, Nas Don Mariano Kabayao. After him, Don Santiago Laureano was elected. The election was by the choice of the councilors and the principales (usually the illustrious heads of families in the poblacion). In 1916, the first municipal president elected was Fernando Soils (he died in 1930), who also was the first re-elected municipal president since 1901. In 1937, the last municipal president was Mr. Santiago Nietes. On January 1, 1938, under the charter of the Commonwealth of the Philippines, Jose S. Zamora was elected its first town mayor. In 1948, Candido Arangote was elected first municipal mayor under the Republic of the Philippines. He served in an appointive capacity after the second world war until the grant of the Philippine Independence on July 4, 1946. Thus was ended the ten year transition period of the Tyding-McDuffie Law, granting the Philippines its Commonwealth status.\n\nIn the early days of the American occupation in 1901, there were established schools, it began with grade one to grade four and it was only in the poblacion that the school was opened. Few took advantage of studying. Those who earlier took advantage of schooling became the nucleus of the first Filipino teachers, they were appointed to teach while learning in the process. Very few men and women took advantage of schooling which was benevolently offered by the Americans. One of the First teachers was Antonio Lagasca (who later became Justice of the Peace and Member of the Antique Provincial Board), Fernando Soils, Irene Kabayao, Guillermo Yson, Caridad Pacete and m~ny others. Sometime in 1910 many of those who belonged to the poorer families, sent their children to school with the children of the rich and illustrious families. The humane treatment of the American school administrators gave encouragements to the poorer classes to send their children and acquire education. The schooling to the higher grades- which was from grade VI to high school was usually offered in the provincial capital of Antique. Many also made the sacrifices by going to school at San Jose by hiking. Those who can afford, went horseback riding as was the vogue of the day. Vehicular transportation was still unknown in those days. Some may travel by boat. Provisions were sometimes carried by servants and for those cannot afford, they carry their own provisions themselves. These sacrifices paid dividends because many of those who graduated became teachers, professionals in their line of endeavor.\n\nIn 1918 during the presidency of Fernando Soils, his vice-president, Geronimo Militante, who was acting at the time, succeeded in opening the grade six and seven. This gave opportunities to the poorer segment of the town that many of them took advantage of acquiring education. Complete elementary education was offered and many of those who finished became teachers. The old school site was then on the site of the present municipal building, north of Porvenir St., while other classes were conducted in the old municipal building, between Porvenir and Antonio Ma. Regidor Sts., fronting the municipal plaza, which now houses the Office of the Sangguniang Bayan. Some of the classes were in the houses of the prominent men, lik~ the residence of Mr. Sixto Pechayco in Pojo and Martin EscaSo in Ilaya.\n\nThe present school site west of the Roman Catholic Church and convent was claimed as church property by Rev. Jose Geraldez and his successor rev. Richard Knight. They opposed the claim of the municipal government headed by Fernando Soils. Due to the opposition of the church, Soils was forced to bring the case to the Court of First Instance to determine the ownership of that strip of land. Eventually, Soils with the help of witnesses, convinced the Court that the property belongs to the municipality. In 1925 during the presidency of the late Gregorio Vicente, and through the efforts of the late Governor Enrique Salvani, there was appropriated from the\n\nNational Government funds for the construction of the new Elementary School building of semi�permanent structure. Vicente did not live to see the school finished and it was during Guillermo Yson's term that the school was finished. At the time Gov. Enrique Salvani was very influential with Governor General Leonard Wood that he was able to succeed in getting more funds for Antique and Bugasong was one of its beneficiaries. The partial asphalting of the town proper and the construction of the local water works system were projects that were constructed during Yson's term of office. The Rizal monument was also constructed out of the civic-minded endeavor of the ladies of the time. Salvacion M. Soils, who became the President of the Woman's Club, was responsible for the collection of funds for the construction of the Rizal monument.\n\nSanitary conditions were introduced with the development of the school system. Toilets and suitable comfort rooms were provided in the school and most of the prominent families were sold to the idea of clean living. Potable water was available and epidemics which was then rampant in the 20s and 30s were stamped out. During those days, houses of even the illustrious families were by the \"Pig System\" (meaning they have comfort rooms whose escreta goes to the pigs roaming below it). It took quite a time for the sanitary authorities to influence those families to construct better toilets.\n\nAfter the second world war in 1945, came the opening of rural high schools in most of big towns. BugaSong being one of these towns, opened its rural high school in what is now the present site of the Antique Vocational School. Although there were many misgivings, through the energetic efforts of some of its sons, Jose T. Bayog who became the first principal of the rural high school, the Central Antique High School was inaugurated in 1946. The PTA president, Jose B. Barcelo of the Bugasong Elementary School, was instrumental in securing bamboo materials and contributions of whatever kind just to make the school a reality. The school site was purchased from different owners and one of those who notably donated his land for the school site were the late Don Vicerite Laureano and Pastor Moscoso. Many contributed in money and voluntary donations that the school site was finally paid. It has a wide area of more that 8 hectares which was then Sitio Oroyan, east of Ylaya district. Many of the products of the old Central Antique High School are now prominent members of the community, it produced lawyers, doctors, engineers, teachers pharmacists, dentists and what have you. Some are now enjoying lucrative jobs in the National Government in Manila and other provinces.\n\nThe Central Antique High School was centrally located in the province of Antique. Before the year 1955, Congressman Tobias Fornier, a prominent member of Congress (he was Chairman, Committee on Appropriations, a powerful committee in Congress), proposed to the then Mayor Candido Arangote that the Central Antique High School shall he converted into the Antique School of Arts and Trades. Mayor Arangote and the members of the Municipal Council (with the exception of the writer who was also a member of the council) voted not to accept the offer of conversion. He reasoned that the name of Congressman Emigdio Nietes who contributed a lot in the construction of the Central Antique High School, will be lost if they accepted the office of Congressman Fornier. The offer for the construction of the Antique School of Arts and Trades was made to Sibalom, where it now stands- monument to the late Congressman Fornier.\n\nIn 1957 Congressman Tobias Fornier again offered the conversion of the Central Antique High School into a national vocational school. At first the Mayor and Council were reluctant, but after the first fiasco and sensing that the people have been tired of their antics, reluctantly accepted the offer. In the latter part of 1957 the school was converted and appropriations for the new school buildings were made.\n\nBugasong is from the provincial capital, San Jose de Buenavista.\n\nAccording to the Philippine Statistics Authority, the has a land area of constituting of the total area of Antique.\n\nBugasong is politically subdivided into 27 barangays. \"Ilaures\" and \"Cubay Sur\" were \"sitio\"s converted into \"barrio\"s in 1957 and 1959, respectively.\n\nIn the , Bugasong had a population of . The population density was .\n\nBugasongnons speak Kinaray-a as their main dialect while Hiligaynon is used as their secondary dialect.\n\nThe current mayor of the town is John Lloyd Pacete with Bernard Pesayco as vice mayor. The town council is composed of ten members, eight are elected at large, while two are elected after the barangay elections. The current town council members are:\nThe town celebrates its annual town fiesta every 18 January in honor of Santo Niño (the Holy Child). The local town festival, the \"Bugas Sa Lusong\", is integrated with this celebration, with its opening salvo sometime between 10 and 12 January. The highlight of the celebration is the high mass on 18 January, usually celebrated by the diocesan bishop and visiting priests.\n\nThe \"patadyong\", a colorful native fabric, is a well-known product made by the locals in barangay Bagtason.\n\nThe Estaca Hills historically served as the town's watch tower. Currently, it is a destination for hiking. From the top, one can see the entirety of Bugasong.\n\nThe town is the location of the only Dominican school in the province of Antique, Saint Joseph Academy, which was established on 1957. The school is run by the Dominican Sisters of the Most Holy Rosary of the Philippines. Notable alumni include former Deputy Ombudsman for the Visayas Atty. Pelagio Apostol and then National Artist Edsel Moscoso.\n\nOther schools in the town include: Antique Vocational School, at the town proper; Northern Bugasong National School at barangay Cubay North; Southern Bugasong National School at barangay Igbalangao and Eastern Bugasong National High School (formerly Northern Bugasong National High School-Annex) at barangay Pangalcagan.\n\n"}
{"id": "2062542", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2062542", "title": "Caluya", "text": "Caluya\n\n', officially the ', (; ; ), is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nSemirara Island has an area of , and is home to the Panian Mine, a vast open-pit coal mine in operation since 1999, and the Unong Mine (in production from 1984 to 2000).\n\nThe Island of Caluya was once called \"Polo Pandan\" by Moro pirates searching for commercial ships as target victims. These pirates with their pillager vintas called \"Salipsipan\" utilized the place for haven and rest after divesting ships of valuable belongings. In fear of the pirates, only few fishermen dared to fish in the area. The Moro pirates called the place Polo Pandan because the entire coastal area was covered by pandan screw pines.\n\nSeveral years later, fishermen from other islands, who were catching turtles for Chinese traders using their fish gears called \"Panalog\", accidentally landed in Polo Pandan in search of drinking water. They were surprised to see footprints of humans in the sand but no houses could be seen. They found a potable spring coming from the roots of a Dankalan Tree. They brought the good news to other fishermen and settled by the shore near that spring. They made huts (\"Barong-barong\") for their families and continued with their fishing activities. Eventually, the Moro pirates landed at the other side of the island. The settlers feared for the safety of their families, so they transferred their huts to the hilltop and called the place \"Minoro or Barabanwa.\"\n\nOne day, while all the male settlers were out looking for food and fishing, the Moro pirates surfaced and an amazon named Merin gathered all women to defend their settlement. The Moro leader, upon seeing the amazons, ordered his men to retreat for according to him, the women were weak or maluya in vernacular. Thus the name \"Polo Pandan\" was changed to \"maluya\" in honor of famous hero Merin. The island soon became \"Caluya.\"\n\nThe Spanish settlement in Caluya was established around 1850. Spanish friars came to the island to propagate their colonization of the archipelago. The settlement was called Barangay and the first \"Cabeza de Barangay\" was Balbino Alojado (later changed his surname to Ysug) succeeded by Luciano Boctot and then by Surato Bunga-Bunga. All other Cabezas de Barangay was not recorded.\n\nLater on, the \"Cabeza de Barangay\" became \"Capitan de Barangay\". The first Capitan de Barangay was Lozaro Decena succeeded by Luciano Tabangay and then by Mariano Escultor.\n\nIn the year 1893, believed to be in the month of May, the Barangay was changed to \"Pueblo\" or town by the Spanish Government, hence the founding of the Municipality of Caluya.\n\nThe American Government started in 1901. Caluya was run by the people from Bulalacao, Oriental Mindoro and became its town. The first officials were appointed by Americans but later, the officials were elected by the people. The head of the local government was the Town President or \"Presidente del Pueblo\". Appointed President from 1901 to 1910 was Feliciano Erodias. Next was Valentin Escultor in 1911. Then they held the first election in 1913 and the first elected President was Moises Lucena. In 1916, the President was Elias Tameta; 1919, Luis Erodias; 1922, Agustin Madarcos; 1925, Pedro Janairo; and 1928, Ruperto Tabinas.\n\nIn 1934, the head of the town was changed to a town Mayor. The 1st town Mayor was Claro Erodias who served up to 1938. Ruperto Tabinas was the town Mayor when the World War II broke out.\n\nIn 1943, the Japanese landed in Caluya by means of motorboat and spread their propaganda about the government. No battle had been fought for there were no soldiers in the island. The Japanese commandeered pigs, carabaos, cows, chickens and other foods for consumption.\n\nThe only battle fought was in Semirara. It was between the five Japanese battle ships and the U.S. Air force. War ships were sunk and an airplane from the Allied Force was drowned. About 200 Japanese marines fled to Capiz Island led by Commander Tanaka. There was no known Mayor at that time.\n\nIn, 1945, Mr. Joven Janairo was appointed Mayor, and in the 1948 election, he was elected to the position. He was succeeded by Romulo Lumawig in 1953 but was re-elected in 1958. Romulo Lumawig was re-elected in 1964 and Oscar Lim was elected in 1972. Soon, Martial law was proclaimed by President Ferdinand Marcos.\n\nIn 1987, Douglas Egina was appointed as OIC-Mayor. Then in 1988, Oscar Lim was re-elected And in the year 1992, when election was again conducted, the first woman Mayor Nikita L. Frangue was elected and succeeded by her husband Domingo G. Frangue,Jr. who served from July 1, 2001 up to June 30, 2007. Reynante J. Lim,Sr. was the Municipal Mayor from July 1, 2007 until his death on February 28, 2010. Diosdado L. Egina acted as Mayor from March 1, 2010 to June 30, 2010. Genevive G. Lim-Reyes is the present Municipal Mayor of Caluya.\n\nCaluya is located at .\n\nAccording to the Philippine Statistics Authority, the has a land area of constituting of the total area of Antique.\n\nCaluya is politically subdivided into 18 barangays.\n\nIn the , Caluya had a population of . The population density was .\n\n"}
{"id": "2062543", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2062543", "title": "Culasi", "text": "Culasi\n\n', officially the ', (; ; ), is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people. The municipality is known as the home of Mount Madia-as, an enchanted mountain sacred to ancient Visayans as it is home to the god of death, Sidapa, and god of meteors, Bulalakaw.\n\nDuring the Spanish colonial times, Culasi was known by its old name \"Bacong\". Now, Bacong is only one of its barangays. Bacong was one of the four \"visita\"s or towns established by the Spaniards. The others were Nalupa (now Barbaza), Bugason (now Bugasong), and Hamtik (now Hamtic). The name \"Culasi\" or \"Kulasi\" was derived from the local term for a species of mangrove \"Lumnitzera racemosa\" which grow abundantly in the vicinity's river basin.\n\nThe 1905 census revealed that Culasi had the biggest Chinese population in Antique, so much so that it had a barrio named \"Villa de Hong Kong\" in their honor. It is now part of the Poblacion.\n\nCulasi is located at . It is north from San Jose de Buenavista, the capital of Antique, and south from Kalibo, the capital of Aklan.\n\nAccording to the Philippine Statistics Authority, the has a land area of constituting of the total area of Antique.\n\nLocated in the northern portion of the province, it is bounded on the north by Sebaste, south by Tibiao, west by the Sulu Sea and east by Mount Madja-as and the Municipality of Madalag, Aklan, just beyond. Its territory includes Maniguin (or \"Maningning\" / \"Hammerhead\") and Batbatan Islands.\n\nExcluding the outlying islands, its northernmost point is located at 11°32’05\" latitude and 122°05’00\" longitude. Its easternmost point is located at 11°30’50\" latitude and 122°10’05\" longitude. Its southernmost point is located at 11°21’04\" latitude and 122°02’08\" longitude and the westernmost point is at 11°31’05\" latitude and 122°03’08\" longitude.\n\nCulasi has a slope of 8°. Eastern height ranges from to at the summit of Mount Madia-as, it is the highest point in Panay. It has unbroken mountain range from barangay Batonan Sur in the south to barangay Salde in the northernmost. From the peak of Madia-as Mountain it gradually flattens down to a narrow strip of the coastal plain. Land area roughly covers 82.92% upland and above lowland comprises 17.08% of the land area with a slope of 18% and below. Forest areas comprise almost half of the total land area covering .\n\nCulasi has two distinct seasons, the rainy and dry. Rainy season occurs in the months of May to November and dry season for the rest of the year. Areas like the mountainous barangays of Flores and Osorio located at the southern portion of the municipality are characterized by a relatively cool temperature which is highly suited for coffee. The higher precipitation acquired may be caused by high mountain range or because of its high topography.\n\nCulasi is politically subdivided into 44 barangays, which are classified into 3 island, 11 upland, 16 coastal and 14 interior/lowland barangays.\n\nIn the , Culasi had a population of . The population density was .\n\nFarming and fishing are the major livelihood where the Culasinhon depend their living.\n\nThe rolling hills of Mount Madja-as are rich in manganese, copper and coal found in Timbaban. Other metallic mineral deposits are white clay and pebbles in the island barangays of Malalison and Batbatan. Sand and gravel is being extracted in various rivers and used for infrastructure. Another metallic mineral is the limestone deposit found in Sitio Bula, Camancijan and is used for agricultural and industrial purpose. Limestone is used in the production of cement.\n\nMost treasured one is the oil deposit in Maniguin Island explored by the Philippine National Oil Corporation (PNOC). Several companies drilled oil deposit in Maniguin with black coal. Maniguin has a potential reserve of of oil, based on the PNOC drilling project report.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2062544", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2062544", "title": "Hamtic", "text": "Hamtic\n\n', officially the ', (; ; ), is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nHamtic was formerly named \"Antique\", after which the province was named. It is the oldest town and the first capital of the province before it was transferred to San Jose de Buenavista in 1802. The town speaks three dialects, namely Hamtikanon (a unique town dialect), Karay-a (the \"lingua franca\" of Antique province), and Hiligaynon (the regional dialect).\n\n“Hantik” was named after the humming big black ants that produce the sound “tik” when they bite.\n\nHamtic or Hamtik is the oldest town in Antique. It was the first capital of the province during the Spanish regime. Later, San Jose de Buenavista was made capital by the Spaniards in 1802. Hamtic was then relegated to a mere barrio, forming a part of San Jose.\n\nLocal historians tell how Hamtic came to be thru its legend. During the 13th century, at the time that Sulu experienced a change from the high influence of Banjarmasin, Borneo was full of discontentment. The leader of Borneo then was Sultan Makatunaw, known for its cruelty and greediness. To escape from his wrath, the ten datus led by datu Puti sailed away in their “balangays” in search of freedom in a new and peaceful land. The other nine (9) datus were Datu sumakwel, Bangkaya, Paiburong, Padohinog, Lubay , Dumalugdog, Dumangsil, Dumangsol and Balinsusa. Strong winds and tides brought this group of sailors, businessmen, sculptors, farmers, blacksmiths/carpenters and spiritual babaylan to the Sirawagan River, once a portion of Antique but presently claimed by San Joaquin, Iloilo. Nearby lies the Andona Creek where these foreigners met with the natives, black, short and kinky-haired inhabitants called atis or negritoes as the Spaniards used to call them. The leader of the datus, datu Puti met with Datu Marikudo, heir of datu Polpolan, the chieftain of the Atis, who immediately asked what they (the foreigners) wanted. Datu Puti replied that they need to purchase a land they can call their own and where they can live peacefully. Marikudo readily agreed to allow them to occupy the area near the sea while the Atis will occupy the hillsides and the mountainous part. The agreement would be done with a barter. The Atis were happy with what they got – a gold salakot, a long necklace and a gold “batya”. Unluckily, the land that the datus purchased run out of food, water and other provisions. Datu Puti sent Datu Sumakwel to travel north with a group of other Datus’ wives, “bangut-banwa”, guides and the rest. They reached the shores of Hantik, and later anchored at Malandog or “Malindog” (tabungos). They sailed towards the mouth of the two rivers, Bocboc and Malandog and carefully anchored thereat. Datu Sumakwel went around the land and found out that there was abundance of harvest in the fields and foods from the seas and wild animals in the hills and mountains. He then went back to Sirawagan to report to Datu Puti what he had discovered. Datu Puti then called everyone to prepare to sail northbound, to Malandog. Later, Datu Puti sailed north from Malandog and reached the provinces of Batangas, Laguna and to other parts of Luzon. With him were Datu Dumangsil and Datu Balinsusa. Meanwhile, Datu Sumakwel became the most respected leader of Hamtic and later the whole of Panay.\n\nHamtik was already a flourishing Malayan settlement when the Spaniards came to Panay. However, the settlement was later renamed Antique by the Spaniards and made the first capital of the province, which later on became the name of the whole province. In 1762, the seat of the Province was transferred to Bugasong, another progressing Spanish Settlement, but in 1802 it was moved to San Jose de Buenavista, the present capital of the Province of antique. The town of Hamtic was created separately from the Municipality of San Jose by virtue of Executive Order No. 3, series of 1954 signed by President Ramon Magsaysay and was officially inaugurated on January 20, 1954. Since then, the Municipality is celebrating its birth anniversary.\n\nHamtic is located at . It is from the provincial capital, San Jose de Buenavista.\n\nAccording to the Philippine Statistics Authority, the has a land area of constituting of the total area of Antique.\n\nHamtic is politically subdivided into 47 barangays.\n\nIn the , Hamtic had a population of . The population density was .\n\nThe latest edition to the strings of tourist attractions found in Hamtic, aside from the hero’s birthplace, is the Rosa Mystica Park in Barangay EBJ (formerly Barangay Lanag) where soul-searchers can have a corner to come to and to meditate. The Park boasts of statues depicting the Lord’s Via Crucis and is situated on top of a hill, also Rosa Mystica’s image, thus the park is named. It can be reached by tricycle and has minimal entrance fee. It is open daily to accommodate local and foreign visitors.\n\n"}
{"id": "2062546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2062546", "title": "Laua-an", "text": "Laua-an\n\n', officially the ', (; ; ), is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nLaua-an celebrates its Pahinis Festival every January.\n\nThe municipality of Laua-an formerly named as Nalupa Nuevo (pueblo near the mouth of the river) was already a pueblo before the Spanish–American War. Capitan Luis Sarmiento was the first Capitan del Pueblo of Laua-an. When the Filipino-American War broke out, Barbaza became an integral part of Laua-an, because its Municipal Hall was burned. The seat of government of Laua-an was then transferred to Barbaza through a resolution approved by the council under the leadership of Capitan Justiano Barrientos. Pursuant to the provisions of Act No. 1748 and as per Executive Order No. 14 of Governor General James F. Smith, the seat of the Municipal Government of Laua-an was transferred to Barbaza effective June 1, 1908. Many of the inhabitants of Poblacion and Barangay Guisijan filed a petition to the Governor-General that Laua-an be separated from Barbaza with a promise that the municipal building of Laua-an will be constructed at their own expense. Upon the recommendation of the Provincial Board and pursuant to the provision of Act. No. 1748, the 11 Municipalities of Antique was increased to 12 as established by Act. No. 961 which was amended by act No. 987. Pursuant to Executive Order No. 129 issued by Governor Francis Burton Harrison, Laua-an was declared as a Municipality on January 1, 1915.\n\nLaua-an is located at . It is from the provincial capital, San Jose de Buenavista.\n\nAccording to the Philippine Statistics Authority, the has a land area of constituting of the total area of Antique.\n\nLaua-an is politically subdivided into 40 barangays., 12 of which are located along the coast and the rest are considered inland/upland barangays located along two big rivers of Paningayan and Cairawan. It has a total of 85 sitios, The total land area of Laua-an is approximately 18,692,456.5 hectares, representing 7.41% of the total land area of the Province of Antique. Of the total land area 7,832,222.9 has. Or 42% is alienable and disposable land and 10,860,2336 has. Or 58% is classified as timber land. Total Population of Laua-an in 2009 as per survey conducted by the Municipal Social Work and Development Office (MSWDO), reached to 26,959 in which 13,468 are males and 13,491 are females with total households of 5,392. \n\nIn the , Laua-an had a population of . The population density was .\n\nLaua-an has an agricultural-based economy with rice, sugarcane and corn as primary crops. About 4,267,264 has. are devoted to agricultural crop production representing 22.83% of the total land area of the municipality. Laua-an produce Rice, Corn, Vegetables, Peanuts, Mango, Banana, Abaca and other crops. It has 42 Day Care Centers, 12 Complete Elementary Schools and 4 Secondary Schools. In Health services, it has 1 Rural Health Center, 8 Barangay Health Stations and 13 Health & Nutrition Posts. Laua-an has a total of 76.065 km. of Barangay roads; 2.160 km. of municipal roads; 2.450 km. of provincial roads and 11.125 km. of National Roads. A mini-hydro project is being constructed at Brguy. San Ramon by Sun West Water and Electric Company and at Sitio Sadsadan, Barangay Maybunga and Villa Siga Bugasong. Four cell sites (Globe, Sun and Smart) were installed at Barangay Poblacion, Bagongbayan and Liya-Liya rerspectively. It is observed that even upland barangays have signal which contributed to the improvement of information technology in the area. \n\nFarming is the major occupation of the people and fishing is the secondary source of income. The deep sea waters of Sulu Sea is abundant with fish and marine life like sardines, tuna, squids, mackerel, crabs and other seafoods which is a source of living for most residents.\n\nAmong the tourist attractions are Mount Igmatongtong in barangay Capnayan, Maybunga Water falls in barangay Maybunga, and Estaka Hill in barangay Poblacion. Estaca Hill in the Poblacion provides a strategic place to view the barangay Poblacion, the Sulu Sea and its environs.\n\nPre-Catholic pre-Spanish Indianized Srivijaya-era \"Pahinis Festival\" similar to Makar Sankranti, is celebrated annually to feature the muscovado sugar industry of the town, the technology of which dates back to the Spanish era. \"Pahinis\" means to clean and prepare the tools for sugarcane milling which corresponds to a celebration to thank God for a fine harvest of sugarcane.\n\nThe town celebrates its centennial foundation in January 2015. Weeklong celebration features Pahinis Festival Mardi Gras; LGU, professionals, senior citizens and barangay night; Bugal Kang Laua-an (Pride of Laua-an) Awards Night; and Search for Hara de Pahinis (Pahinis Queen) Beauty Pageant and Coronation Night. The winner of this pageant represents the municipality during the Search for Lin-ay kang Antique (Miss Antique) during the Binirayan Festival in the capital town of San Jose de Buenavista every last week of December. Other events include boat racing along the Sulu Sea, and Aring Beach Festival at the last night of the celebration in Barangay Cadajug.\n\n"}
{"id": "2062547", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2062547", "title": "Hersch", "text": "Hersch\n\nHersch is a German surname. Notable people with the surname include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2062548", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2062548", "title": "Libertad, Antique", "text": "Libertad, Antique\n\n', officially the ', (; ; ), is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nIt was established by virtue of Executive Order No. 253, promulgated on August 5, 1949, with its territory obtained from a portion of Pandan.\n\nLibertad is located at . It is the northernmost municipality of the province and is from the provincial capital, San Jose de Buenavista, and is from Kalibo, the capital of Aklan.\n\nAccording to the Philippine Statistics Authority, the has a land area of constituting of the total area of Antique.\n\nLibertad is politically subdivided into 19 barangays.\n\nIn the , Libertad had a population of . The population density was .\n\n"}
{"id": "2062550", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2062550", "title": "Pandan, Antique", "text": "Pandan, Antique\n\n', officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nPandan is also one of the Antique's industrialized towns and a major tourist destination for its cold spring, the Bugang River and white beaches along the Pandan Bay from Barangay Mag-aba to Barangay Duyong.\n\nThe official name of the present municipality of Pandan was adopted in the year 1654 from the Spanish noun \"Pan\" meaning bread, and from the demonstrative pronoun in the Visayan \"Dan\" which in Spanish signifies \"Ese\" meaning \"That\". The name was acquired by the natives of Pandan in 1654 when the Spanish colonialists landed in this town and asked from the natives any food they could give. One of the natives offered a basket of camote (sweet potato) saying in the local dialect \"Dan\" (that), pointing to the basket. When the Spaniards took it, one exclaimed \"Pan!\" So when the natives heard it, they propagated the term, from which the name of the town Pandan derived.\n\nThe town was formally established in 1752 by the Spanish Parishes in the province during the Philippines' colonization by Spain, which started in 1521 and ended with the Spanish–American War in 1899. During World War II, 1942 Japanese occupation of Panay Island saw the harassments and pandemonium in the area. The town was liberated in 1944 as part of the combined Allied forces campaign for the liberation of the Panay Island. In 1945, it was incorporated as a town under the fourth Philippine Republic.\n\nPandan is located at . It is from the provincial capital, San Jose de Buenavista, and is from Kalibo, the capital of Aklan.\n\nAccording to the Philippine Statistics Authority, the has a land area of constituting of the total area of Antique.\n\nPandan is bounded by Cuyo East Pass as part of Sulu Sea on the west; by\nLibertad on the north and northwest; by Aklan province on the east and northeast; and Sebaste on the south.\n\nPandan Bay has coral and artificial reefs, found in barangays Patria, Tingib, Mag-aba, Botbot and Idiacacan.\n\nPandan is politically subdivided into 34 barangays, of which 15 lie along the coast, 12 are inland, and 7 are upland.\n\nThe population of Pandan in 1903 until 1948 includes that of its former barangays in northern and southern parts (currently municipalities of Libertad and Sebaste, respectively). \nIn the , Pandan had a population of . The population density was .\n\nThe Philippine dialect generally spoken in the province of Antique is called Kinaray-a (Kee-nah-rye-ah). The people of Pandan—called \"Pandananons\"—uses a version of Kinaray-a which differs somewhat with that used by most of the other Antique residents. The Pandananon version is more similar to the dialect spoken in Aklan province, which shares a boundary with Pandan. Thus, for example, the English word \"No\" is \"Wara\" in Kinaray-a but \"Uwa\" or \"Wa\" in Pandananon. E.g. \"There is no electricity today\" translates into \"Wara ti sulo kadya\" in Kinaray-a, but \"Uwa it iwag kaya\" in Pandananon. Pandananons also use Hiligaynon as their secondary dialect.\n\nPandan is a cross-road municipality in Northern Antique, making it a better area for trade and commerce. Pandananons rely on agriculture and fishing which accounts for almost 75% of the total labor force. The other percentages were made up by professionals, civil servants, workers and Overseas Filipino Workers.\nThe municipality began experiencing growth in tourism and development in infrastructure and commerce in late 2010. Some of the major projects that was completed in Pandan are the Pandan Public Terminal (which is bigger than that of Passi City's), the Pandan Arboretum project (first in Antique) near the Malumpati Spring Resort and other infrastructure projects in the barangays. The game changer is the Talisay-Perfecta-Santa Ana Road (to be constructed) that will connect the hinterland barangays of Pandan to the town centre. This will lessen the travel time and delivery of goods from the far-flung areas to the town. The current administration is working for more improvements in the growing tourism and commercial sectors.\n\nPandan is becoming one of the top tourist destinations in the country. The town is just 23 miles away from Boracay Island, which has become one of the world’s popular beach resorts and tourist destinations. Both local and foreign tourists bound originally for Boracay have increasingly added a stop in Pandan before or after visiting Boracay.\n\nThe town's major attractions include the Malumpati Cold Spring Resort and other popular beach resorts (see below) and the Bugang River, which has been nationally awarded several times as \"the cleanest inland body of water\" in the Philippines; the Pandan Bay sunset, and white-sand beaches, sandwiched between the Sulu Sea to the west and, in the east, the Central Panay Mountain Range, and rice, coconut and other farms.\n\n\n\n\nActing under the Department of Education (DepEd), the Pandan School District oversees the implementation of the programs and thrusts of the department. The district is composed of 33 schools—10 mono-grade elementary schools; 5 multi-grade elementary schools, and 18 primary schools—with a total of 200 classrooms.\n\nSecondary education is provided by two private schools (the \"Pandan Bay Institute, Inc.\" (PBI) and the \"Jinalinan Academy\") and four public schools (the \"Pandan National Vocational High School\" (PNVHS), and the Patria, Mag-aba, and Santa Ana National High Schools). These six schools have a combined 58 classrooms.\n\nMag-aba National High School was founded in 1977. At first it was a Barangay High School but upon the term of President Corazon Aquino, all Barangay High Schools were renamed as National High Schools. Mag-aba National High School was relocated to the eastern part of the Barangay Mag-aba in 1992.\n\nFounded in 1947, the \"PBI\" (Pandan Bay Institute, Inc.) was formerly run by the Diocese of Antique but is now managed and operated by the Canadian Missionary Brothers of Christian Instruction (commonly known as the La Mennais Brothers). The \"Jinalinan Academy\" is operated by the Seventh-day Adventists. Located in the town proper, the \"PNVHS\" (Pandan National Vocational High School) was founded in 1997 and had its first graduates at the end of the 2000-2001 school year.\n\nOn a limited basis, tertiary education is provided by the Jinalinan Academy (which offers a one-year Health Aide course) and by the PBI (which offers two-year Computer Science and Computer Secretarial courses).\n\nPandan has one district hospital, the Justice Calixto Zaldivar Memorial Hospital formerly known as \"Gov. Leandro Locsin Fullon General Hospital\", with a 25-bed capacity located at Barangay Bagumbayan, one kilometer away from the town center. It is manned by a chief of hospital, two resident physicians, eight nurses, one midwife, one dentist, one pharmacist, one medical technologist, and one nutritionist. Attached to the hospital is the Alexander Liberman Memorial Surgical Pavilion.\n\nThere is a private Lying-In-Clinic (Tugon Medical Clinic) which is located at the town center. It has a 10-bed capacity and is manned by one physician, five nurses, one midwife, one dentist, two pharmacists and one medical technologist.\n\nThe Municipal Health Office is manned by one Municipal Health Officer (MHO), two Public Health Nurses (PHN), ten Rural Health Midwives (RHM), one Rural Sanitary Inspector (RSI), four casuals, and one janitor. Each RHM has her own catchment area which is composed of 3-4 barangays. One RHM is based at the Main Health Center. Out of nine Barangay Health Stations (BHS), only three have permanent buildings and these need repair. Midwives with no permanent BHS occupy the Barangay Hall.\n\nThe programs and services implemented by the Municipal Health Office are: National Tuberculosis Control Program (NTP); Health and Sanitation; Maternal and Child Health Care (MCHC); Nutrition; Expanded Program on Immunization (EPI); Control of Diarrheal Disease; Leprosy Control, and Family Planning. These programs and services are implemented throughout the municipality through the efforts of the Rural Health Personnel with the help of the Barangay Health Workers (BHW), Barangay Nutrition Scholars (BNS) and trained hilots in their respective barangays.\n\nPandan has a sufficient supply of water in general. It also has good sources of potable water that may not require chemical treatment. The water supply operates at three levels—the individual faucet system (Level III); the communal faucet system (Level II) and the point source system (level I) -- which are in the form of wells and springs common in the rural areas.\n\nA Level III Water Works System operated and maintained by the Pandan Water District supplies 20 barangays in the municipality. The system was built through a joint undertaking of the Japan Asian Friendship Society and the Local Government of Pandan. The system basically draws water from a spring located in Malumpati and pumps it to a reservoir located in Santo Rosario. It then distributes water by gravity to its concessionaires. It is currently capable of supplying 540,000 liters per day, mainly for domestic consumption (currently involving 1,132 users).\n\nOther barangays not covered by the Pandan Water District get their water through gravity-type spring development projects, involving the installation of communal faucets at strategic locations within each barangay.\n\nLevel I systems exist in areas where other sources are not available. Prior to the operation of the Level III system, Level I systems were popularly used by most of the households in the municipality. At present, these are still maintained as a back-up source of water supply.\n\nThe Aklan Electric Cooperative (AKELCO) supplies electricity to the municipality. AKELCO sourced its power from the National Power Corporation. Electricity had already reached almost majority of the barangays in the municipality except those, which are located in the hinterlands. One barangay in the hinterland obtains its electricity from a mini-hydro power plant.\n\nIn Pandan, the total percentage of household served is 33.31% in the rural area while 86.13% is being served in the urban area. Even though some households can already be reached by electric supply, they choose not to get connected due mainly to its high cost. They rely instead on other means for lighting, cooking and other purposes.\n\nAlthough the government with the partnership of the AKELCO is currently implementing its electrification program in the barangays, delays in the implementation can be expected because of the high cost of transmission lines and other facilities needed. There is also a low demand in electric connection because some households are not capable of paying installation expenses as well as the monthly bills.\n\nPower outages and fluctuation can be frequently experienced in Pandan which usually occur during weather disturbances. Old and in facilities are also one of the causes.\n\nAKELCO gets its supply of power from NAPOCOR through a 69 kV transmission line traversing the Iloilo-Capiz-Aklan area. When power from this line is cut-off due to maintenance or weather disturbances, Pandan experiences a power outage.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2062551", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2062551", "title": "Patnongon", "text": "Patnongon\n\n', officially the ', (; ; ), is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nPatnongon is located at . It is from the provincial capital, San Jose de Buenavista.\n\nAccording to the Philippine Statistics Authority, the has a land area of constituting of the total area of Antique.\n\nPatnongon is politically subdivided into 36 barangays.\n\nIn the , Patnongon had a population of . The population density was .\n\nPatnonganons speak Kinaray-a as their main dialect while Hiligaynon is used as their secondary dialect.\n\n"}
{"id": "2062552", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2062552", "title": "San Jose de Buenavista", "text": "San Jose de Buenavista\n\n', officially the ', (; ) or locals referred to as San Jose, is a and capital of the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nThe municipality also hosted the 2017 Palarong Pambansa.\n\nIn 1250, ten Bornean Datus (Chiefs), their wives, children, warriors, servants, and followers left Borneo and the oppression of Sultan Makatunao. In December, they landed at Siwaragan, San Joaquin, in the province of Iloilo. After interrogating two men who were fishing there, they were told that the leader, Chieftain Marikudo and his wife, Maniwangtiwan were living nearby in Sinugbo. The Datus went downstream and found the Ati ruler. Negotiations commenced and the \"Barter of Panay\" was made. Panay was bought in exchange for a gold \"salakot\" (Chieftain's rattan hat trimmed in gold) for Marikudo and a long, gold necklace for Maniwangtiwan. The other three datus sailed northward to Luzon, leaving seven datus under the leadership of Datu Sumakwel.\n\nMultiple settlements were established in Malandog, later including Tubigon, which is now San Jose de Buenavista, and a settlement was established in Naganya (Egana). Barangay Odiong served as a dock for boats of Malays coming from Malandog to the eastern part of Hantique (Antique). To signal boats stopping or arriving, the port authorities used \"budyong\" or horns made from a carabao's (water buffalo) horns. The blowing of \"budyong\" took place at Telegrapo in Tubigon as this spot served as the signal and control tower. The Hantique rivers at that time were navigable and the main way of traveling.\n\nSpanish colonizers came to Hantique in 1581. With them came Augustinian friars that Christianized the inhabitants who lived in Hamtic. They taught the people in Christian ways and built churches in Maybato, Asluman, Naganya (Egana) and Bugason (Bugasong).\n\nThere was no place called San Jose de Buenavista at that time. It was called \"Tubigon\" because it was under water. Tubigon was still a part of Hamtic and a \"visita\" of the church of Hamtic, meaning it had no parish priest of its own. The people went to Maybato to hear mass. The church was a big stone edifice, which gave the name \"Maybato\" to its vicinity. Moro pirates frequently plundered Hamtic and went as far as Maybato. These Moro pirates burned the church and took away the huge bell in the belfry. They had not gone far from Mala-iba when their boat sank and in colloquial Spanish, Mala-iba means, \"it had gone away.\" In 1733, San Jose, formerly called “Tubigon” was founded, and in 1790, it acquired its land title through land grants issued by Governor-General Félix Berenguer de Marquina. Afterwards, it became a parish having its first \"curra paroco\" or parish priest, Fr. Manuel Ibañes.\n\nAbout two hundred years ago, the site now occupied by San Jose de Buenavista was dense jungle and a favorite landing place of the Moro pirates who raided the countryside. During the invasions of 1743, the Moros were reported to have penetrated as far as Catung-agan, but all were killed with the exception of three by the famous Manglo of Igmatongtong (Bugasong). The year 1776 saw a return of the Moros to Bugasong. In 1779, Badyangan (Patnongon) was the scene of their depredations, while Barbaza suffered in their hands in 1782 and 1787. The inhabitants gradually moved away from the coastal areas and settled in the mountains. Only two towns remained—Bugasong (founded in 1743) and Antike (founded in 1745) both belonging to the province of Oton. The Moro pirates landed in the neighborhood of Madrangca and from there, penetrated into the other regions of the province. It became clear that one of the best ways to stop them from landing at the point, was to cut down the jungle and prevent their surreptitious landings and invasions of the areas. Seven men began this hazardous undertaking in Malai-ba near the San Juan Spring under the leadership of Augustin Sumandi. In the year 1790, the sitio of Mala-iba changed its name into San Jose, not only to honor its patron saint but also to perpetuate the name of Augustin Sumandi's son, Jose. In 1802, upon petition of the people, San Jose de Buenavista became the capital of the province of Antique and Augustin Sumandi was appointed as its first \"Gobernadorcillo\".\n\nIn 1872, San Jose became a town. Then in 1902, it became the capital of the Province of Antique. Government officials and church dignitaries came by boat to attend the ceremonies. Impressed by the marvelous view of the town, they added to the name San Jose, the word “de Buenavista” (meaning beautiful view), the town's current name.\n\nIn 1954, by the virtue of Executive Order No. 3 of the President of the Philippines, the southern portion of San Jose de Buenavista was formed into an independent municipality under the name of Hamtic. The boundary was described to be \"From a point on the south bank of the mouth of Malandog River running northeasterly in a straight imaginary line to a point on the northeast side of the San Jose-Hamtic provincial road ten meters west of the intersection of this northeast side of said road with the northwest side of the Sibalom-Piapi-Malandog provincial road; thence following approximately the same direction in an imaginary line that is parallel to, and ten meters distant from the said Sibalom-Piapi-Malandog provincial road until it touches the present boundary between San Jose and Sibalom.\"\n\nSan Jose de Buenavista is located at .\n\nSan Jose is from Iloilo City, from Kalibo, and from Roxas City.\n\nAccording to the Philippine Statistics Authority, the has a land area of constituting of the total area of Antique.\n\nSan Jose de Buenavista is politically subdivided into 28 barangays.\n\nIn the , San Jose de Buenavista had a population of . The population density was .\n\nKinaray-a is the spoken language of the municipality. Kinaray-a came from the word \"iraya\", which refers to a group of people residing in the mountain areas of the province. Hiligaynon is spoken as a second language of the municipality.\n\nSan Jose is the see of the Roman Catholic Diocese of San Jose de Antique.\n\nThe celebration of the historical Binirayan Festival is conducted the last week of December. It's a theatrical presentation, commemorating the landing of the ten Malay datus in Malandog, Hamtic, and Antique in the middle of the 13th century to found the first Malayan settlement or barangay in this country. Started in 1971, it now attracts the attention of Filipino and foreigners alike.\n\nOld and new buildings dot the town: the Old Capitol Building; Evelio B. Javier Memorabilia (New Capitol); ADF Handicrafts; Azurin Mansion and Piedra's Restaurant; La Granja and Binirayan Hills; and the San Pedro Old Church.\n\nEBJ Freedom Park is located in front of the Antique Provincial Capitol building in San Jose de Buenavista. The Sangguiang Panlalawigan of Antique on behalf of the entire Antiqueño citizenry officially christens the place Evelio B. Javier Freedom Park. In the park is a marker which reads \" A fitting tribute to a man who has done so much, not only for the people of Antique, but the entire Filipino nation, in pursuit of justice, freedom, dignity, democracy and peace\". The marker also designates the spot where the late Gov. Evelio B. Javier was shot by an unknown assassin on February 11, 1986. Facts about his death are incomplete.\n\nCamp Autajay sometimes called Piña beach, is five kilometers away from San Jose. It is a 10-hectare lot located along the beach, with an orchard of narra and mahogany trees, nipa sheds, benches and cottages. The place is ideal for camping, or live-in seminars for conferences. One can go swimming, light bonfires, climb trees, pick fruits or play during leisure hours.\n\nSan Jose celebrates its religious fiesta on May 1 to honor its patron saint, Saint Joseph the Worker.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2062553", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2062553", "title": "Sebaste, Antique", "text": "Sebaste, Antique\n\n', officially the ', (; ; ), is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nSebaste has 1 private high school (Saint Blaise High School) and 1 public high school (Sebaste High School/Sebaste National High School). Every February 3, people celebrate the annual feast of their patron saint.\n\nSebaste is named in honor the place from where the town's patron saint, St Blaise, came. It is a place where St Blaise, the bishop, had a see. It is claimed that the name Sebaste is derived from a town somewhere in Armenia or Capadoccia, then a name given to Asia Minor.\n\nSebaste was formerly called Ipayo, the name of the river that flow through it. Ipayo was said to have been a municipality during the Spanish time in 1800 up to the later part of 1880 but pestilence and other calamities wrought havoc upon the communities that comprised it. What was once a populated and developed land became a tragic sight of desolation and despair. Misfortune collected its heavy toll upon the municipality that it was forced to be annexed to Pandan and Culasi. Thereafter, what was once the seat of that municipality is called Arabal of Sebaste.\n\nIt was said that the image of St Blaise was sent as a gift of Dona Matilde, wife of the Duke of Seville, to her son, Fr Mariano Vicente Zapanta, then the assigned parish priest of Pandan. When Fr Zapanta transferred his residence to Ipayo, he took along with him the image of St Blaise and installed him as the patron saint. He thought that the place was cursed, so the statue of St Blaise was installed in the church.\n\nIt was not long after St Blaise was made the patron saint of Ipayo when his miracles as claimed were manifested not only in preventing calamites to happen but also in healing the sick. St Blaise was a doctor of medicine and a bishop. He was a throat specialist. The news of his miracles spread throughout the length and breath of the region of Western Visayas. Hence, on every 3 February, the date of the feast in his honor, Ipayo becomes the site of the assemblage of countless number of people. The celebration has become a pilgrimage site of the people from Antique, Aklan, Iloilo, Capiz, Negros, Mindanao, Mindoro and many other places. Soon after, the name Ipayo was changed to Sebaste.\n\nThe town of Sebaste was formed by virtue of Republic Act No. 4870 on May 8, 1967. Barrios Callan, Nauhon, Ydio, Sebaste, Abiera, Bacalan, Alegre, Arasasan, P. Javier, and Aguila were separated from the municipalities of Culasi and Pandan to constitute the municipality of Sebaste.\n\nSebaste is located at . It is from the provincial capital, San Jose de Buenavista, and is from Kalibo, the capital of Aklan.\n\nAccording to the Philippine Statistics Authority, the has a land area of constituting of the total area of Antique.\n\nSebaste is politically subdivided into 10 barangays.\n\nIn the , Sebaste had a population of . The population density was .\n\nKinaray-a is the dominant language of Sebaste while Hiligaynon is used as a secondary language.\n"}
{"id": "2062556", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2062556", "title": "Sibalom", "text": "Sibalom\n\n', officially the ', (; ; ), is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nSibalom is home to the University of Antique.\n\nIt was in the middle of the 17th century when the town of Sibalom was founded under the Spanish domination. It was inhabited by the Malays that came from Borneo under the leadership of Datu Sumakwel. After the governments of several provinces were established, a pueblo or town was organized. The first \"capitan\" and \"governadorcillo\" of Sibalom was Don Pedro Antang in 1751. Agustin Baladjay, who had been elected many times as \"governadorcillo\", had been imprisoned by Spanish authorities in the province for having resisted against the abuses of Spanish officials. His followers from the mountains fought against the guards and released him. In 1792 to 1793 when Santiago Damacino was the \"governadorcillo\", the Roman Catholic church was erected. The people were forced to work in the construction of the church. In the year 1802 when Juan Geronimo was holding the position, there was pestilence. A destructive typhoon occurred in the year 1814 when Juan Benito was the \"governadorcillo\". Basilio Vilvar became \"governadorcillo\" many times beginning the year 1858. He was considered as one of the most educated and the wealthiest landowner. Later on he lost his wealth for he was too hospitable to the government officials. From 1878 to 1879, when Mariano Rojo was the \"governadorcillo\", there was famine for almost two years. Santiago Lotilla was given a medal of merit in San Jose, Antique. It was under his domination that the Roman Catholic cemetery was erected. He also encouraged the planting of fruit trees such as coffee, cacao, etc. During the term of Felipe Tordesillas in 1888 to 1889, war broke out between the mountaineers of Sibalom and San Remigio. Gregorio Palermo, also known as King Ario, was their leader. They revolted against the Spanish government. They made the mountain of Igbaong, in the barrio of Osorio, as their headquarters. Under the leadership of Mariano Vacera, from 1893 to 1894, the municipal building was erected. Doroteo Alvior was the last \"governadorcillo\" to hold office in the year 1896. The Spanish sovereignty lasted until the month of November 1898 when an expeditionary force sent by General Emilio Aguinaldo under the command of General Leandro Fullon and Colonel Angel Salazar conquered the capital of the province San Jose on 24 of November 1898. The people had learned to read and write in Spanish from the Spanish missionaries. The Spanish occupation brought Christianity to the people and the people's victory over the Spaniards brought the foundation of the Iglesia Filipina Independiente or the Aglipayan Church.\n\nThe declaration of war on December 8, 1941 between the United States and Japan alerted not only the people of other places in the province but also the people of Sibalom, who were then still enjoying an easy and peaceful life. Not long after the war was declared, the town of Sibalom gradually became a somewhat deserted place because its people evacuated to nearby mountains, their homes to be abandoned for an indefinite period of time. Looting was rampant then. The Japanese occupation forces, who landed in San Jose on April 17, 1942, arrived at Sibalom at 2:00 p.m. on that day. There were already no people living in the town when the enemy came. The people that time began to panic. However, when the USAFFE surrendered on May 30, 1942, many civilians began to return to the lowlands. Others preferred to stay in the mountains. In June 1942, a Filipino Government was set up with Jose P. Laurel as President of the Philippines, Tobias Fornier was the governor of Antique, and Melquiades Melo (the town mayor when the war broke out) became a puppet mayor in enemy-occupied Sibalom. His work was to assist the Japanese occupation forces, especially in the procurement of food supplies, maintenance of peace, and to attract the people who evacuated to the mountains, to come down. The civil government in town that time was under the Japanese forces. When the Japanese occupation forces came, they immediately occupied the Bongbongan Copper mines. In July 1943, Sibalom Elementary School was reopened and Nipponggo was taught as one of the subjects. The school was headed by Mr. Mariano X. Rojo who was the school Principal and other teachers were Mr. Francisco Occena (II and III), Mrs. Rosario M. Silva and Mr. Juan Vego. Mr. Ambrosio Galera was the food production supervisor. Part of the town plaza was converted into a vegetable garden. The Japanese occupation forces undertook to plant all the rice fields in the plains of Sibalom and to put up fish corrals in San Jose, Hamtic, and Guinsang-an. Bamboo trees in Sibalom were cut down and were used in the construction of these fish corrals. The Bonbongan copper mine was reopened under the management of the Ishihara Mining Co. Two bridges (in Pangpang and Villar) were constructed. The bridge in Pangpang cost around P400,000.00 (Japanese money). Bongbongan copper mines later on was called “Bongbongan City” because it had a population of around 18,000, with many prisoners of war serving as laborers in the mines. On February 8, 1944, Mr. Melquiades Melo was replaced by Mr. Agaton Grasparil as mayor of Sibalom. The replacement was made by the order of Governor Fornier when the Japanese authorities gave back the Philippines its independence. From February 8 to September 15, 1944, Mr. Grasparil served as mayor of Sibalom. On September 16, 1944, the guerilla forces headed by Col. Peralta, ordered the evacuation of Sibalom, so Mr. Grasparil complied with the order and escaped to the mountains. Governor Fornier appointed then Mr. Santiago Lotilla as mayor until the Japanese forces were driven out of the capital. In April 1945, Mr. Santiago Lotilla was replaced by Mr. Ambrosio Galera as acting mayor of the PCAU government. After the Japanese were conquered, the pre-war officials were returned to their posts, and Mr. Pedro Morales, who was elected vice mayor, acted as mayor of Sibalom until elections came.\n\nThe civil government outside the enemy territory, was organized on October 17, 1942. Atty. Ramon Maza was appointed deputy governor of Panay. Mr. Pedro Morales (elected vice mayor in 1941 elections) was appointed as mayor. Mr. Miguel Mataquel was the vice mayor. Three councilors who have served before the Japanese landed in Antique were again appointed. These were Pedro Tordesillas, Nicolas Magbanua, and Francisco Bernabe. The three other appointed councilors were Fausto Estioso, Mateo Cordero, and Alejo Mondejar. A food Administrator's Committee was also organized to be headed by a chairman and eight assistants. On October 24, 1942, the office of the deputy governor was moved to barrio Lambayagan from Catmon. The transfer was necessary because the Deputy Governor's evacuation place was within the war zone then. Mr. Morales mayorship was from 1942 to January 1943. On February 1, 1943, he resigned thus Miguel Mataquel became the mayor (from February to May 2, 1943). On May 2, 1943, Miguel Mataquel was replaced by Mr. Angel Villafuerte. On January 18, 1944, the Japanese soldiers who patrolled the mountains ruthlessly massacred 40 civilians in Barrio Salvacion. One of the victims was Miss Petronila Petiaoco, an elementary school teacher who was assigned as a Food Administrator in Salvacion and she happened to be present when the Japanese arrived in that barrio. She died a rather heroic death. In May 1944, the Japanese forces constantly patrolled the barrios and mountains, thereby causing many families to move into the enemy-occupied town. In November of the same year, civilians were free to return the town. People were encouraged to go to the lowland to harvest rice. But in December, the guerilla forces launched another counterattack on the enemy; thus the harvest in the lowland was abandoned by panic-stricken people.\n\nOn December 20, 1944, Mr. Ambrosio Galera was appointed as mayor of Sibalom. He succeeded Mr. Angel Villafuerte. The civil government was changed to military government under Col. Peralta. In that month, Peralta dissolved the government of Confesor. The former appointed Atty. Calixto Zaldivar as military governor and at that time Mr. Galera acted as mayor.\n\nEnemy's Flee to the Mountains\nOn April 3, 4, and 5, the Japanese fled to the mountains and fought against the guerilla men in Sido, Igsoming, Bato Cueva, Canselayan, and Igmaro. The Japanese retreated to the mountains.\n\nOn March 5, 1945, Atty. Ramon Maza was appointed as governor in the PCAU government. He recommended Mr. Angel Villafuerte as mayor. The latter became town mayor from April 7 to September 1945. In September, the Commonwealth authorities were restored to their offices. Governor Tobias Fornier resumed office as governor and he appointed Mr. Rotillo Duazo as mayor of Sibalom. The latter's term of office lasted until January 13, 1946. On January 14, 1946, Mr. Santiago Lotilla was appointed as town mayor with Pedro Morales as vice mayor. They served until 1947. At this time, many houses were already constructed and people were beginning to live a normal life. Prices of goods were still sky-high. On November 11, 1947, an election was held for the first time after the liberation and the election results made Mr. Tiburcio Tubianosa as mayor with Mr. Espiridion Anovert as vice mayor. Mayor-elect Tubianosa, a candidate of the liberal party, won over Mr. Santiago Lotilla, a Nacionalista. Mayor Tubianosa's term of office was from 1948 to 1951. On November 11, 1951, was another election day in town again. As a result, Mr. Santiago Lotilla won as mayor, with Mr. Espiridion Anovert as vice mayor. Such is a series of facts, events, incidents, and personages in Sibalom, during and after World War II until 1953.\n\nSibalom is located at . It is from the provincial capital, San Jose de Buenavista.\n\nAccording to the Philippine Statistics Authority, the has a land area of constituting of the total area of Antique.\n\nSibalom is politically subdivided into 76 barangays. From 1953 to 1955, Barangay Catmon was known as Barangay Pajarito.\n\nIn the , Sibalom had a population of . The population density was .\n\nSibalom Natural Park, one of the last patches of lowland forest on Panay Island and the first protected area in the island, harbors many unique species of plants and animals, some of which are on the brink of extinction. About of forest in Sibalom from Mount Porras extending to Mount Igmatindog, covering Sibalom river and its main tributaries Mao-it river and Tipulu-an river, was declared a natural park on April 23, 2000. Of this forest, are undisturbed by any human activity while about constitutes the 50-year-old reforestation site. One highlight is the \"Rafflesia speciosa\", discovered in Mount Porras and surrounding Barangays in 2002. Dubbed the biggest bloom in the world, its discovery put Sibalom in the map of tourist stopovers in the Philippines. Sibalom also has century-old industries and structures, as well as boulders of gemstones and treacherous mountain trails.\n\nSibalom's tourism industry dawned after the proclamation of the Sibalom Natural Park.\n\n"}
{"id": "2062557", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2062557", "title": "Tibiao", "text": "Tibiao\n\n', officially the ', (; ; ), is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nDuring Spanish times, Spanish Soldiers happened to see a group of natives picking up snails (locally called kuol) in hatay hatay, a watery and miry land. They asked the natives the name of the place pointing to the vast expanse of land covered with tall reed grasses called tigbaw. The natives thinking that the Spaniards were asking for the name of the grass quickly answered Tigbaw. Since then the place was called Tigbaw. The word eventually evolved into Tibiao. Allegedly, the Spaniards had difficulty pronouncing the word Tigbaw.\n\nThe old settlement was in present-day Balanti-an. The Natives had to relocate to the said place since it is quite secluded and distant from the shore. It is secure from piratical raids common during those days. The place is near the edge of the present-day Tibiao River (sa Tibí Kang subâ). Sojourners to the place would comment: Tibi haw? It is a question asking why they locate themselves at the edge of the river. The term tibí haw eventually evolved into Tibiao. Since then the Place was called Tibiao.\n\nTibiao was part of Nalupa from 1596–1840. Nalupa, with its central government in present-day Jinalinan controlled the area of what is now Tibiao, Barbaza, and Laua-an. In early 1730, Nalupa gradually depopulated due to the Moro pirate attacks. By 1733, Culasi had direct control of Nalupa and Pandan. In 1796, Nalupa ceded from Culasi. As an arrabal, notable village chieftains were Paris, Oguid Pagsuguiron, and Nicolas Amar (1818).\n\nIn 1786, Oguid Datu Oguid landed in the shores of Calawgan Creek. He brought with him his family and settlers from an unspecified place in Borneo, presumably from a place where Kinaray-a is the lingua franca.\n\nOn August 6, 1786, Oguid and followers settled in what is now Kamyabsan or a place where guavas. Kamyabsan is now part of Sawang Sitio in Malabor. The site was near the shore and accessible to pirate raids. They later transferred to Balanti-an to coexist with the natives. when Datu Oguid Arrive in Balanti-an he was confronted by the \"Tumandoks\" and they cannot understand each other. The fact they cannot understand each other Datu Oguid Offered foods for them and which we call Panguyang or Padu-um to become friends. After such abundant blessing shared for each other, they made some enjoyment dancing the zarzuela and singing the composo and Sugidanon.\n\nIn 1815, Oguid sent a delegation to Nalupa to petition the Governor of Antique, Rafael Andres Gomez, to make Tibiao a new town separating from Nalupa. The petition was granted.\n\nOn January 1, 1818, Tibiao became a new town with Don Nicolas Amar as teniente Municipal. The Governor of Antique that time was Juan Ormido while the Teniente Municipal of Nalupa was a certain Vislilla. Tibiao remained as a vista of Nalupa. Tibiao did not have church or a priest attend to the spiritual needs of the People.\n\nIn 1826, Oguid never became the Teniente Municipal of Tibiao but he was the one who orchestrated the affairs of the town. On May two 1926, he called for a meeting where it was agreed to hold a Thanksgiving and to build a church in their settlement. The church was 20x10x4 yards in dimension with thatched palm leaf roofing and of walls of wooden slabs. The Teniente municipal of Tibiao at that time was Juan Mariano.\n\nOn November 1, 1826, Oguid and Governor Martinez planted a cross on a mountain east of the settlement; the mountain is presently called Mount Cruz to commemorate the event. A Thanksgiving mass, mass wedding and baptism were held the next day. Festivities followed.\n\nOn November 6, 1828, Oguid chose five men to survey the proposed new town site. The site selected was between Calaugan and Palaypay creeks. It was Juan Amar Sarcino who drafted the town plan. The development of the site immediately began. A church and a convent were constructed, wooden bridges built to span the Calaugan and Palaypay creeks, road laids, drainage canals, and a cemetery were built. The Teniente Municipal at that time was Mariano Delos Santos while the Governor of Antique was Francisco Oreta. \n\nThe Parish of Tibiao was established by the Augustinian missionaries in 1849.\n\nIn 1851 Fr. Eulogio \"Oloy\" Cardones, a Filipino priest, was assigned as the parish priest of Tibiao. Fr. Cardones was the coadjutor bishop of the parish of Manduariao, Iloilo, before his assignment to Tibiao. The Arrival of Fr. Cardones was greeted with a fiesta celebration and a Panguyang. Tibiao is now an Independent Church,\n\nIn 1898, Pedro Bandoja (changed his name to Bandong) was the local revolutionary leader of the town.\n\nIn 1930, Nicolas Amarillo was re-elected Municipal President of Tibiao. He became a member of the National Association for Independence in Manila, which was formerly called \"Bag-ong Katipunan\" while in Manila, he was able to ask thru Rep. Segundo Moscoso aid of 10,000php for the construction of a Gabaldon type fourteen room building of the Tibiao Central School and Anastacia Gindap Espanola donated the Present Site of the Tibiao Central School, except the frontage.\n\nIn 1935, Before the end of Nicolas Amarillo Second Term, Amarillo asked the new governor of that time also from Tibiao, Governor Alejandro Lim to help him negotiate the Bishop of Jaro to donate a church property, for the Municipal Building.\n\nIn 1935, Alejandro Tario Lim was elected as Governor of the province, and known as Justice of the Peace of Tibiao, a lawyer by profession. After his term, he served as Labor Administrator of Department of Labor and Senior Legislator in Malacañang Palace. During his time as governor, he constructed Municipal Plaza and the Municipal Building.\n\nOn April 19, 1942. Japanese burned the church, municipal building, and the bridge.\n\nOn September 3, 1942, Lt. Absalon appointed Martin Juanillo as Mayor of Tibiao.\n\nOn November 13, 1942, Jose Mendoza Sr. Was Appointed Mayor of Tibiao by Pio Dioso.\n\nOn June 16, 1943 , the Japanese patrol penetrated Tibiao.\n\nOn December 11, 1944 Heriberto Bandoja was appointed as municipal mayor of Tibiao by Calixto Zaldivar.\n\nIn 1948, Diodata Tario Lim Bandoja was elected as municipal mayor of Tibiao, sister of the former governor of the province, Gov. Alejandro T. Lim Sr, Tating is only elementary graduate. All her siblings were UP College Graduates. She was made to stop her education to take care of her parents. But she knew the importance of education so she donated eight hectares land and 40,000php for a school building. It was named Tario - Lim Memorial High school now University of Antique Tario Lim Memorial Campus in honor of her parents, Vicente \"Quin\" Sanches Lim and Maria Amar Tario.\n\nIn 1950, nineteen Huks were sighted in Dalanas. Soldiers of the Philippines Ground Force were detailed to Tibiao to fight the Huks. The Municipal Mayor Diodata Tario Lim Bandoja appointed four members of the local police named Manuel Bankaya, Conrado Antonio, Alejandro Amar and Samson Amar. They caught the eighteen Huks whose commander was Alyas 120.\n\nIn 1956, Federico Ruiz Elected as Municipal Mayor of Tibiao. He donated six hectares land of their cane land. Through the help of Tobias Fornier and Diodata Lim Bandoja they established the Tario - Lim Memorial Antique School of Fisheries.\n\nIn 1960, Remegio Vista represented the country in Mexico Summer Olympics. His burst of speed was noticed he was dubbed as \"The Fastest Man\" in the first 50 meters of the sprint races.\n\nIn 1976, Mylene Miciano Crowned as Lin-ay Kang Antique from Tibiao.\n\nIn 1981, Manuel M. Lim Jr. Elected as the youngest mayor of the Town at the age of 26. Grandson of Former Mayor Diodata Tario Lim Bandoja. During his time he was the doctor of the town. Through the help of Philippine army, Mayor Nonie killed three commanders and the members of New Peoples' Army in the mountains of Tibiao\n\nIn 1982, Mary Jane Jereza was crowned as Lin-ay Kang Antique From Tibiao\n\nIn 1992, Manuel B. Lim Sr. inaugurated the new municipal building constructed during the incumbency of Manuel M. Lim Jr.\n\nIn 1991, Tibiao celebrated the First PANGUYANG FESTIVAL, the official Festival of the Municipality. PANGUYANG means a festive offering for a plenteous harvest, a thanksgiving or a harvest festival.\n\nIn 1997, the First Philippine International Whitewater Kayaking Cup ( Participated by 11 countries ) held in Tibiao River. Brgy. Tuno and Brgy. Tigbaboy Tibiao Antique.\n\nIn 1997, Carol Josette Cardos crowned as Lin-ay Kang Antique From Tibiao.\n\nIn 1999, Quennie Bandoja was crowned as Lin-ay Kang Antique From Tibiao.\n\nIn 2003, Krishna Constantino was crowned as Lin-ay Kang Antique From Tibiao.\n\nIn 2011, Mary Kris Gualberto was crowned as Lin-ay Kang Antique from Tibiao.\n\nIn 2012, during the incumbency of Walden M. Lim, the Tibiao Eco Adventure Park \"TEA PARK\" was opened.\n\nIn December 2012, Gracechele Mae Managuit crowned as Lin-ay Kang Antique from Tibiao.\n\nIn 2012, Tibiao dubbed as Tourism Capital of Antique.\n\nIn 2013, Gil Baldevia Bandoja, grandson of Ex-Mayor Felimon Bandoja and son of Ex-Mayor Heriberto Bandoja was elected Mayor; he was again re-elected in 2016, and in 2019, his third term.\n\nTibiao is located at . It is from the provincial capital, San Jose de Buenavista.\n\nAccording to the Philippine Statistics Authority, the has a land area of constituting of the total area of Antique.\n\nSeco Island, over 21 nautical miles offshore, is a 1.5 km sandbar visited by tourists.\n\nTibiao is politically subdivided into 21 barangays.\n\nIn the , Tibiao had a population of . The population density was .\n\nGil B. Bandoja - Municipal Mayor\n\nJimmy D. Barrientos - Municipal Vice Mayor\n\nSanguniang Bayan Members\n\n• Andres Modesto\n\n• Lucas Bandoja\n\n• Walden Lim\n\n• Amador Cumla\n\n• Antonieta Kho yute\n\n• Pelver Medina\n\n• Fe Alvarez\n\n• Fred Eraga\n\nDatu Oguid Pagsugiron Amar - founder of the Town of Tibiao Antique. Born in Dessert Country Judah\n\nDiodata Lim Bandoja - First Elected Municipal Mayor, a Philanthropist who Donated the Tario - Lim Memorial High school now University of Antique, Tario - Lim Memorial Campus, honored to her parents Maria Tario and Vicente Lim. Main Building costing more or less 40,000php and more than a Half of the Eight hectars site. She Improved the Public plaza by constructing the band - stand and a circular dancing pavilion with bench around. She also Constructed a Municipal Building at the Present Site\n\nHeriberto Bandoja- First Three termer Municipal Mayor of Tibiao Antique. Son of Felimon Bandoja Former Capitan Municipal of the town and Anastacia L. Bandoja\n\nFr. Eulogio Cardones- a Filipino priest was assigned as the parish priest of Tibiao. And also the first Filipino Priest of the newly established Church in Tibiao against Spaniards now IFI Tibiao.\n\nRosie Dimamay - former Sanguniang Panlalawigan Member and Former Vice Governor of the province of Antique between 2010 - 2013\n\nAnastacia Gindap Española - a Philanthropist who donated The present site of the Iglesia Filipina Independiente Cemetery and the present site of the Tibiao Central School\n\nAlfredo Siojo Lim - Former Senator and Former Mayor of City of Manila. He is the Son of Quintin Lim Sr.\n\nAlejandro Tario Lim- a Filipino Politician, Brother of Former Mayor of Tibiao Mrs. Diodata Lim Bandoja, Former justice of the Peace of Tibiao and Culasi, a member of the Provincial Board prior to his election as Governor in 1934. He held the office up to 1938 which he served as labor administrator of the Department of Labor, Law Professor and a senior Legislature officer at Malacanang Palace.\n\nManuel Bandoja Lim Sr- The Only Son of a lady Mayor Diodata Lim Bandoja. Founder of popular trademark of bread in Western Visayas, Tibiao Bakery, a Philanthropist and Former Mayor of the Town Year 1992 - 2001\n\nCeazar Lim Rodriguez- First Tibiaohanon Elected as Sanguniang panlalawigan member\n\nRoberto Rodriguez- Former Mayor of Taytay Palawan between 2001 - 2010 and Eldest son of Former Sp Member Ceazar Lim Rodriguez \n\nFederico Dioso Ruiz Sr - a Filipino Politician and Philanthropist. Before the last global war, he was elected number one councilor. In 1956 he launched his Candidacy as Municipal Mayor of Tibiao. When he Won he donate a six Hectares cane land for the Tario - Lim Memorial Antique School of Fisheries now.\n\nRemegio Vicente Vista- a Filipino Sprinter Representative his own country, Gold Medalist in Jakarta and the Tokyo Asian Games and Mexico Summer Olympics. He dubbed as The fastest man in Asia during his Time. Born in a depressed mountain Barangay of Salazar, Tibiao, Antique.\n\n"}
{"id": "2062558", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2062558", "title": "Tobias Fornier", "text": "Tobias Fornier\n\n', officially the ', (; ; ), is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nPrior to the arrival of Magellan in the Philippines, there had already been people residing in the archipelago. The members of these groups are what we call the Aetas. The Aetas or the Negritos were the first inhabitants. But the first cross-breeds of Filipinos were descended from the Bornays who came from Borneo. Long before the coming of the Spaniards, people from the South, particularly from Borneo, migrated to these islands. They came to settle and immediately began to look for good spots wherein to establish their permanent homes. They found the Aetas friendly and so many of the Bornays intermarried with them. They became neighbors. Many of them came to the island of Panay and a group of these came to the Southernmost part of what is now the province of Antique. This particularly stout-hearted group of Bornays had a leader called “Ohoy”. His wife was named “Dawa”. He managed the clearing of the place. The site of the little town of Dao was a deep forest haunted by ferocious animals, reptiles and darkened by gigantic trees. In the center of this place was one tree which overshadowed the rest. Large snakes found sanctuary and fearful beasts were seen around it. The people believed that the tree was enchanted because of its powerful dimensions. But gradually, under the leadership of Ohoy, they lost their fear of the place. They called the tree and all the other trees of the same kind, DAO, a combination from the first syllable of the name Dawa and the first syllable of the name Ohoy. “Da” and “O” combined. As weeks grew into months and into years, families sprang out. Each family claimed the portion it had cleared. These families more or less organized themselves into tribe under Ohoy. While some of them cleared and developed then place, others went hunting. When hunters met in the woods, it was their custom to inquire where each lived in order to get acquainted with each other. The hunters under Ohoy often indicated where they resided by referring to Dao trees as home. Soon other tribes began calling these particular trees and the place where they stood Dao. Years later, when the Spanish conquistadores came, more people combined the original group of Ohoy and the place became civilized. It developed into village, then into town. The newcomers married into the original Bornays and soon everybody was in one way or another related to everybody else. The introduction of the Spanish local government only served to strengthen the ties which already bound the people together. However, as the civilization progressed, even the big trees were cut down including the largest one at the center of the village. The trees were gone now but the name given them which consequently became the official cognomen of the town, will forever remain in the history of the province and in the hearts of the Daonhon people.\n\nThe municipality was formerly known as Dao until 1978 when it was given its current name. It is named after a Congressman from Antique, Tobias Abiera Fornier (1902–October 31,1964). \n\nIn 1957, a barrio named Barasanan was renamed to Ballescas. In the same year, barrio Taguimtim was renamed to Pacienca.\n\nTobias Fornier is located at . It is from the provincial capital, San Jose de Buenavista.\n\nAccording to the Philippine Statistics Authority, the has a land area of constituting of the total area of Antique.\n\nTobias Fornier is politically subdivided into 50 barangays.\n\nIn the , Tobias Fornier had a population of . The population density was .\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2062560", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2062560", "title": "Valderrama, Antique", "text": "Valderrama, Antique\n\n', officially the ', (; ; ), is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people. \n\nThe area is home to the indigenous Iraynun-Bukidnon, speakers of a dialect of the Kiniray-a language, who have crafted the only rice terrace clusters in the Visayas through indigenous knowledge and sheer vernacular capabilities. The rice terraces of the Iraynun-Bukidnon are divided into three terraced fields, namely, Lublub rice terraces, Baking rice terraces, and San Agustin rice terraces. All of the rice terrace clusters have been researched on by the National Commission for Culture and the Arts and various scholars from the University of the Philippines. There have been campaigns to nominate the Iraynun-Bukidnon Rice Terraces, along with the central Panay mountain range, into the UNESCO World Heritage List.\n\nThe municipality was named after Spanish governor-general Manuel Blanco Valderrama.\n\nValderrama is located at . It is from the provincial capital, San Jose de Buenavista.\n\nAccording to the Philippine Statistics Authority, the has a land area of constituting of the total area of Antique.\n\nValderrama is politically subdivided into 22 barangays.\n\nIn the , Valderrama had a population of . The population density was .\n\nThe newly elected Mayor, Atty. Jocelyn L. Posadas, took her oath on June 21, 2016, after winning the elections May 9, 2016. The new set of the municipality's government officials are Josefino Castillion as Vice Mayor and 8 Sangguniang Bayan (SB) Members: Richel Pagayonan, Pedro Labanon, Jose Mervin Gonzales, Keking Otadoy, Mary Joyce Roquero, Christopher Maguad, Anthony Gade and Budak Pon-an.\n\n"}
{"id": "2062562", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2062562", "title": "Lake Margaret (Tasmania)", "text": "Lake Margaret (Tasmania)\n\nLake Margaret is a concrete-faced gravity dam with an uncontrolled spillway across the Yolande River, located on the north side of Mount Sedgwick, in the West Coast Range, West Coast of Tasmania, Australia.\n\nThe impounded reservoir is also called Lake Margaret.\n\nThe dam was constructed in 1918 by the Mount Lyell Mining and Railway Company for the purpose of generating hydro-electric power via the Lake Margaret Power Station, which is located below the dam wall. Following the closure of the Mount Lyell Mining and Railway Company, in 1985 the control of the dam, lake, and power station was transferred to Hydro Tasmania.\n\nThe dam, called Lake Margaret, was completed in 1918 and it was the first gravity dam constructed in Tasmania. It was built of concrete with conglomerate \"plums\". The dam wall is high and is long and the concrete-faced dam wall has a volume of . The uncontrolled spillway has a capacity of . In 1974 the dam wall was strengthened by the use of prestressed anchors and grouting of open joints.\n\nThe Lake Margaret dam impounds the Yolande River, which also is the outflow from the dam. Further west the Yolande joins with the Langdon River, another West Coast Range west flowing river, to join with the Henty River west of the Zeehan Highway.\n\nThe reservoir, also called Lake Margaret, with an elevation of , lies east of Mount Cyril, that has an elevation of , and south of Mount Geikie, that has an elevation of , both in the West Coast Range. Mount Sedgwick is to the south. The Bastion, at , which is a steep cliff face that is immediately west of Lake Magdala and north of Mount Geikie, together with Farquhar Lookout, with an elevation of , define a rough line of the northern part of the catchment area.\n\nNumerous smaller lakes - some named and some not - lie above the location of the Lake Margaret. The vesting of the catchment with the current operator of the hydro electric power station, makes the two feeder parts of the catchment specific Hydro land in contrast to the surrounding landscape which is either in the Tyndall Regional Reserve or the Lake Beatrice Conservation Area.\n\nThe two southern feeder Hydro reserves start from the slopes of Mount Sedgwick, the westerly from Lake Barnables (less than east of Lake Margaret), then to Lake Phillip. The eastern feeder starts at an unnamed lake to Lake Polycarp, Lake Peter, Lake Paul, Lake Apollos, and then to Lake Phillip. The northern feeder starts from Lake Monica, Lake Myra, then Lake Magdala, situated at , Lake Martha, at , and Lake Mary, at , before flowing into Lake Margaret.\n\nThe larger lower altitude natural lake of the area lies to the south east side of Mount Sedgwick and is known as Lake Beatrice.\n\nThe initial purpose of Lake Margaret when it was constructed by the Mount Lyell Mining and Railway Company was to generate hydroelectric power for the -based Mount Lyell mine, railway, and surrounding community. While the mine has since closed, the purpose of Lake Margaret to generate power remains unchanged. Between 1918 and 1930 the Mount Lyell Mining and Railway Company commissioned seven conventional Pelton turbine generators with a capacity of at the Upper Lake Margaret Power Station. Hydro Tasmania took ownership of the power station in 1985. Water travels from Lake Margaret through a woodstave pipeline to the power station.\n\nIn 1931 a minihydro plant was constructed to provide additional power. The single Turgo turbine generates . Hydro Tasmania took ownership of the power station in 1985 and decommissioned the plant in 1994. The station was reopened in 2010 following refurbishment that included a new penstock, turbine and woodstave pipeline.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2062566", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2062566", "title": "Three Men on the Bummel", "text": "Three Men on the Bummel\n\nThree Men on the Bummel (also known as Three Men on Wheels) is a humorous novel by Jerome K. Jerome. It was published in 1900, eleven years after his most famous work, \"Three Men in a Boat (To Say Nothing of the Dog)\".\n\nThe sequel brings back the three companions who figured in \"Three Men in a Boat\", this time on a bicycle tour through the German Black Forest. D. C. Browning's introduction to the 1957 Everyman's edition says \"Like most sequels, it has been compared unfavourably with its parent story, but it was only a little less celebrated than \"Three Men in a Boat\" and was for long used as a school book in Germany.\" Jeremy Nicholas of the Jerome K. Jerome Society regards it as a \"comic masterpiece\" containing \"set pieces\" as funny or funnier than those in its predecessor, but, taken as a whole, not as satisfying due to the lack of as strong a unifying thread.\n\nD. C. Browning writes \"The title must be puzzling to many readers, for 'bummel' will not be found in English dictionaries.\" It is a German word, as Jerome does not explain until the end of the book, and apart from his book, it has not received any widespread use in English. (The first American edition, published by Dodd Mead in 1900, was entitled \"Three Men on Wheels\".)\n\nOne of the characters in the book asks, \"how would you translate [bummel],\" to which the narrator replies, in the very final paragraph of the book:\n\nThe general style and manner of the book are similar to its predecessor. It is a series of humorous vignettes, each of which builds slowly, through accumulation of layer on layer of detail, through several pages. Jeremy Nicholas calls these \"set pieces.\" Most of them concern bicycling, genial (if shallow) commentary on German culture from the point of view of a British tourist, or situation-comedy-like depictions of interpersonal interactions between the characters.\n\nThe novel was written near the end of the Victorian-era bicycle craze, launched by the development of the two-wheeled safety bicycle. It depicts an era when bicycles had just become a familiar piece of middle-class recreational equipment. The references to brand competition, advertising, and enthusiasts' attitudes toward their equipment resonate with modern readers.\n\nThe novel invites comparison with H. G. Wells's 1896 humorous cycling novel, \"The Wheels of Chance\".\n\nMany of the comments on cycling are relevant—and funny—today. Those who have purchased ergonomic bicycle saddles, intended to relieve pressure on the perineal nerves, may not know that these are not a new invention:\nJerome's comic stereotypes of Germany and the German character provide some picture of the country during the period of the German Empire, at least how it was popularly perceived in Britain.\n\nGenerally, the country is portrayed as clean and orderly, yet heavily policed, with the authorities strictly enforcing even the most trivial of a vast number of laws and regulations (this causes the three men to frequently be in minor trouble with the law). The German people are described as amiable, unselfish, homely, kind and egalitarian; yet they are also placid and obedient, eager to obey those in authority.\nJerome goes on to comment that it would be consistent with the German character for a criminal condemned to death to be simply given a piece of rope, and told to go and hang himself.\n\nThe Englishmen spend some time in the company of students; Jerome describes German Student Corps and their customs of the \"Kneipe\", an organised beer party, and the \"Mensur\", or Academic fencing. The mensur sword duels are described at length, with little humour, and with Jerome expressing extreme disapproval for the tradition.\n\nJerome would have been aware of Mark Twain's humorous travelogue, \"A Tramp Abroad\" (1880), based on a walking tour through similar parts of Germany, with extensive comments on the language and culture. \"Three Men on the Bummel\" follows in this vein. At least one of Jerome's remarks, however, is remarkably prescient:\n\nJeremy Nicholas says that the book is \"unfairly chastised as being an ineffectual afterthought\" to \"Three Men in a Boat\", and that \"the set pieces (the boot shop, Harris and his wife on the tandem, Harris confronting the hose-pipe, the animal riot in the hill-top restaurant) are as polished and funny (funnier, some would say) as anything in the earlier book.\" His analysis is that\nHugh Laurie read the book as a \"Book at Bedtime\" for the BBC in 2001.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2062576", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2062576", "title": "BattleTanx: Global Assault", "text": "BattleTanx: Global Assault\n\nBattleTanx: Global Assault is an action game developed and published by The 3DO Company for the Nintendo 64 and PlayStation, in which players control futuristic tanks in a post-apocalyptic scenario. It is a sequel to the Nintendo 64 game \"BattleTanx\", which utilized the same method of game play. Although it earned relatively positive reviews from critics, 3DO went bankrupt before another sequel could be released.\n\nPlayers take control of different gangs, each using up to five different types of tanks. Most of the tanks can activate special abilities with the left and right C-buttons.\n\nMultiplayer allows players to play in almost all of the maps from campaign mode, as well as some which are exclusive to multiplayer. The maps usually are based on known landmarks and locations in the United States or Europe, such as Route 66, the White House, the British Houses of Parliament, and the Eiffel Tower.\n\nOn January 13, 2006, the evil Queenlord Cassandra is spying on Griffin Spade's family and orders her troops to kidnap Griffin's son Brandon and kill everyone else. Griffin and his army manage to push back the invaders, but Cassandra soon turns the tables by mind-controlling Griffin's own army. Griffin and Madison manage to escape San Francisco and begin chasing Cassandra across the United States, eventually cornering her in Washington. Cassandra, however, escapes with Brandon to the United Kingdom; Griffin and Madison follow. They build a new army in Europe and chase her through England, France and Germany.\n\nWhile in Paris, they discover Cassandra released the virus in 2001 to kill every female on Earth who did not have the power of the Edge. In Berlin, Griffin finally rescues Brandon. They make it back to San Francisco and push back another invasion by the Storm Ravens, and finally corner and defeat Cassandra on Alcatraz Island. The story ends with a cliffhanger, as an unidentified magician finds Cassandra's body and speaks of a \"chosen one\" as he resurrects her.\n\nThe Nintendo 64 version received mostly positive reviews, with IGN giving it an 8.2/10, and GameSpot granting the game a 7.2/10. The PlayStation port, on the other hand, was critically panned, with IGN giving it a 4.5/10, and GameSpot a 5.5/10.\n\nDoug Trueman reviewed the Nintendo 64 version of the game for \"Next Generation\", rating it three stars out of five, and stated that \"Players looking for mass destruction will enjoy this title, but gamers looking for more realistically paced action and strategy should wait until \"Tokyo Wars\" hits Dreamcast.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2062577", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2062577", "title": "Texas's 10th congressional district", "text": "Texas's 10th congressional district\n\nTexas's 10th congressional district of the United States House of Representatives includes the northwestern portion of the Greater Houston region stretching to the Austin area of Texas. The current representative is Michael McCaul.\n\nFor most of the time from 1903 to 2005, the 10th was centered on Austin. It originally included large portions of the Texas Hill Country. President Lyndon B. Johnson represented this district from 1937 to 1949. During the second half of the 20th century, Austin's dramatic growth resulted in the district becoming more compact over the years. By the 1990s, it was reduced to little more than Austin itself and surrounding suburbs in Travis County. \n\nHowever, in a mid-decade redistricting conducted in 2003, the 10th was dramatically altered. It lost much of the southern portion of its territory. To make up for the loss in population, it was extended all the way to the outer fringes of Houston. On paper, the new district was heavily Republican. Five-term Democratic incumbent Lloyd Doggett was forced to transfer to another district. McCaul won the open seat in 2004, and has held it ever since.\n\n"}
{"id": "2062578", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2062578", "title": "Index of Iraq-related articles", "text": "Index of Iraq-related articles\n\nArticles (arranged alphabetically) related to Iraq include:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nYouth in Iraq\n"}
{"id": "2062581", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2062581", "title": "Loveboat (album)", "text": "Loveboat (album)\n\nLoveboat is the ninth full-length studio album by British synthpop group Erasure. Released in the UK by Mute Records in 2000, it was produced by Erasure and Flood. It proved to be their least successful in terms of sales and charts since their debut \"Wonderland\" in 1986. Erasure's U.S. record label at the time, Maverick Records, shelved the album because of \"lack of hit singles.\" Largely panned by Erasure fans\n\n\"Loveboat\" failed to hit the Top 40 in the UK and two singles were released, although only one was eligible to chart. Maverick Records requested the re-recording and remixing of several tracks from the album before they would agree to release it. Although \"Moon & the Sky\" was reworked, Maverick never released it and dropped Erasure from its artist roster. Three years after the album's UK release, Mute Records secured rights to finally release it in its original form in the U.S. in 2003, after the release of Erasure's follow-up album \"Other People's Songs\". \"Loveboat\" failed to chart on the \"Billboard\" 200. \n\nThe CG model and cover artwork rendering was produced by Martin Gardiner.\n\nAll tracks written by Andy Bell and Vince Clarke.\n\n\nSubsequent to their acquisition of Erasure's back catalog, and in anticipation of the band's 30th anniversary, BMG commissioned reissues of all previously released UK editions of Erasure albums up to and including 2007's \"Light at the End of the World\". All titles were pressed and distributed by Play It Again Sam on 180-gram vinyl and shrinkwrapped with a custom anniversary sticker.\n"}
{"id": "2062583", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2062583", "title": "Costa Rican Football Federation", "text": "Costa Rican Football Federation\n\nThe Costa Rican Football Federation (), commonly known as FEDEFUTBOL or FEDEFUT, is the official association football governing body in Costa Rica and is in charge of the Costa Rican national team.\n\nOn June 13, 1921, the Liga Nacional de Fútbol was created by Liga Deportiva Alajuelense, Club Sport Cartaginés, Club Sport Herediano, , Sociedad Gimnástica Española de San José, Club Sport La Unión de Tres Ríos and Sociedad Gimnástica Limonense to direct and organize football in Costa Rica. In 1931, the league was centralized and renamed Federación Deportiva de Costa Rica, then Federación Nacional de Fútbol and then in the 1970s to Federación Costarricense de Fútbol (FEDEFUTBOL).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2062584", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2062584", "title": "List of Parliamentary constituencies in Mid Glamorgan", "text": "List of Parliamentary constituencies in Mid Glamorgan\n\nThe Preserved county of Mid Glamorgan is divided into 6 parliamentary constituencies, one of which is shared with Gwent. The current boundaries have been effective since the 2007 National Assembly for Wales election and the 2010 United Kingdom general election.\n\nThe Boundary Commission for Wales submitted their final proposals in respect of the Sixth Periodic Review of Westminster Constituencies (the 2018 review) in September 2018. Although the proposals were immediately laid before Parliament they were not brought forward by the Government for approval. Accordingly, they did not come into effect for the 2019 election which took place on 12 December 2019, and which was contested using the constituency boundaries in place since 2010.\n\nUnder the terms of the Parliamentary Voting System and Constituencies Act 2011, the Sixth Review was based on reducing the total number of MPs from 650 to 600 and a strict electoral parity requirement that the electorate of all constituencies should be within a range of 5% either side of the electoral quota.\n\nOn 24 March 2020, the Minister of State for the Cabinet Office, Chloe Smith, issued a written statement to Parliament setting out the Government's thinking with regard to parliamentary boundaries. They propose to bring forward primary legislation to remove the statutory obligation to implement the 2018 Boundary Review recommendations, as well as set the framework for future boundary reviews in time for the next review which is due to begin in early 2021 and report no later than October 2023. It is proposed that the number of constituencies now remains at the current level of 650, rather than being reduced to 600, while retaining the requirement that the electorate should be no more than +/- 5% from the electoral quota.\n\nThe implemented Fifth Periodic Review of Westminster constituencies.\n"}
{"id": "2062589", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2062589", "title": "National Autonomous Federation of Football of Honduras", "text": "National Autonomous Federation of Football of Honduras\n\nThe National Autonomous Federation of Football of Honduras (), known as FENAFUTH, is the official football governing body in Honduras and is in charge of the Honduran national team. FENAFUTH was founded in 1935 and joined FIFA in 1946. It joined CONCACAF in 1961.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2062592", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2062592", "title": "Musée Chappuis-Fähndrich", "text": "Musée Chappuis-Fähndrich\n\nThe Musée Chappuis-Fähndrich, located in Develier, Canton of Jura, Switzerland, houses a large collection of objects from everyday life in the region during the period 1650 to 1950.\n\nThe collection, assembled by Marc Chappuis and his wife, and housed in a barn, consists of housewares, farm tools, devotional items, and other objects used in farm life, local crafts, and religious worship over a period of three hundred years. There are cast iron skillets, ceramic pots, wooden toys, and leather harnesses, many of them purchases from local second hand shops or gifts of nearby farmers.\n\nThe museum is private and open by appointment only.\n\n"}
{"id": "2062599", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2062599", "title": "My City Was Gone", "text": "My City Was Gone\n\n\"My City Was Gone\" is a song by the rock group The Pretenders. The song originally appeared in October 1982 as the B-side to the single release of \"Back on the Chain Gang\"; the single was the first release for the band following the death of founding bandmember James Honeyman-Scott. The song was included on the album \"Learning to Crawl\" released in early 1984, and it became a radio favorite in the United States. It is sometimes referred to as \"The Ohio Song\" for its constant reference to the state, though it is not part of the song's title. The song's final title was chosen because there had already been a song called \"Ohio\" by Crosby, Stills, Nash and Young.\n\nThe song was written by Pretenders leader Chrissie Hynde, and reflected her growing interest in environmental and social concerns; the lyrics take the form of an autobiographical lament, with the singer returning to her childhood home of Ohio and discovering that rampant development and pollution had destroyed the \"pretty countryside\" of her youth. The song makes a number of specific references to places in and around Akron, Ohio including South Howard Street (line 5), the historic center of Akron which was leveled to make way for an urban plaza with three skyscrapers and two parking decks (line 8).\n\nThe opening bass riff from this song \"was something that Tony Butler used to play just as a warm-up,\" said Steve Churchyard, the engineer for the record.\n\nThe instrumental opening of the song (before Hynde's vocals appear at about 40 seconds) has been used as the opening theme 'bumper' for Rush Limbaugh's popular American talk radio program since 1984, during his days at KFBK in Sacramento, California. Limbaugh said in 2011 that he chose it because of the irony of a conservative using such an anti-conservative song, though he mainly liked its \"unmistakable, totally recognizable bass line.\"\n\nIn 1999, \"Rolling Stone\" magazine reported that, according to Hynde's manager, Limbaugh had neither licensed the song nor asked permission to use it. According to \"Rolling Stone\", EMI took action after Limbaugh told a pair of reporters in 1997 that \"it was icing on the cake that it was [written by] an environmentalist, animal rights wacko and was an anti-conservative song. It is anti-development, anti-capitalist and here I am going to take a liberal song and make fun of [liberals] at the same time.\" EMI issued a cease and desist request that Limbaugh stop using the song, which he did. When Hynde found out during a radio interview, she said that her parents loved and listened to Limbaugh and she did not mind its use. A usage payment was agreed upon which she donated to PETA. She later wrote to the organization saying, \"In light of Rush Limbaugh's vocal support of PETA's campaign against the Environmental Protection Agency's foolish plan to test some 3,000 chemicals on animals, I have decided to allow him to keep my song, 'My City Was Gone', as his signature tune...\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2062604", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2062604", "title": "Reza", "text": "Reza\n\nچاق\nReza is an Iranian name, originating from the Arabic word , \"Riḍā\", which literally means \"the fact of being pleased or contented; contentment, approval\". In religious context, this name is interpreted as \"satisfaction\" or \"\"perfect contentment\" with God's will or decree\". The name is neutral and not one used only by a particular sect, and is used widely by Iranians, Arab Christians and Arab Druze. According to Annemarie Schimmel, \"riḍā is closely related to shukr\"; \"shukr\" is an Arabic term denoting thankfulness and gratitude.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2062610", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2062610", "title": "Inchmarnock", "text": "Inchmarnock\n\nInchmarnock () is an island at the northern end of the Sound of Bute in the Firth of Clyde, on the west coast of Scotland.\n\nInchmarnock lies to the west of the Isle of Bute at the northern end of the Sound of Bute. It is around long and rises to a height of . The island consists mainly of a single ridge running north to south. It is partially wooded and has sea caves at the north and the south and two tiny lochans inland. \n\nThe island belongs to the traditional county of Bute and the modern unitary authority of Argyll and Bute. It is not to be confused with Inchmarnock in Aberdeenshire. Divided into three farms, Southpark, Midpark and Northpark, only the latter is currently inhabited. A short reef of drying rocks, Tràigh na h-Uil, skirts the island's west coast.\n\nThe island gives its name to Inchmarnock Water, the body of water that lies between the island's western shore and the Kintyre peninsula. Inchmarnock Water connects the Sound of Bute and the Kilbrannan Sound in the south to Loch Fyne and the Kyles of Bute in the north.\nThe island's name is an anglicisation of the Gaelic \"Innis Mheàrnaig\" meaning \"Island of Marnock\". Marnock, (Old Irish \"M'Ernóc\", 'My [i.e. 'Saint'] Little Ernán) was a holy man who lived on the island in the 7th century and established a monastery. Alternatively, the name may simply be a dedication to Ernán and reflect the patron saint the monks on the island followed. He has also lent his name to a number of other locations:\n\nAt the northern end of the island a Bronze Age cist contains the remains of a female skeleton, the \"Queen of the Inch\". The remains were removed for carbon dating and are now displayed behind a pane of glass in their original position.\n\nLocal legend has it that in the 19th century drunks from Rothesay were left on Inchmarnock to dry out by means of \"isolation and deprivation\".\n\nDuring World War II, when Bute was being used for extensive military training, the 9th Scottish Commando and the French Canadians used Inchmarnock as part of Bute's training exercises for tank landing craft in preparation for D-Day.\n\nThe Inchmarnock Project was a seven-year study, commencing in 1999, of the archaeology and history of the island from the earliest times down to the Improvements of the late 18th and early 19th centuries. It was undertaken by Headland Archaeology and funded by Lord Smith of Kelvin, the owner of Inchmarnock. Within this long chronology of activity some periods are better represented than others, but the highlight of the project was the excavation in and around the medieval church which lies in the stack-yard at Midpark.\n\nExcavation to the north of St Marnock's church revealed the remains of what is interpreted as an early monastic enclosure, together with a number of workshops and an exceptional number of pieces of inscribed slate. Provisionally dated to the 8th or 9th century AD, possibly continuing later, this is the largest assemblage of such material known from Scotland. It includes examples of abstract designs and casual graffiti but also what are clearly practice pieces for the composition of more complex designs. As 'pattern books' for the creation of designs in other media, the site potentially offers the opportunity of understanding better the context in which this material was produced. Many of the slates were found in association with debris from metal-working processes.\n\nLiteracy at the site was attested by a number of fragments with practice writing, as well as one example with a piece of readable text. There are clear indications that the monks who resided on the island were teaching novices the various skills expected of young monastic scholars. Among the inscriptions are examples of Gaelic, Latin and ogham script. Other inscribed slates from the site provide insights into the dress, weaponry, buildings and ship technology of the time.\n\nChris Lowe, the project director, indicates there has been extensive discussion on the meaning of this scene and highlights the difference in the stance and attitude of the three figures on the right of the stone compared to the one on the left. The three on the right also appear to be wearing mail armour. In this context the image appears to depict slave-raiding or hostage-taking, with the figure on the left a monk potentially being led away. An alternative interpretation is put forward by Katherine Forsyth of the University of Glasgow, who suggests that the scene may represent the procession of a reliquary by an ecclesiastical figure, with the armed individuals providing protection.\nThe results of the Inchmarnock Project were published by Society of Antiquaries of Scotland in September 2008.\n\nToday, Inchmarnock is run as an organic farm and a population of organic Highland cattle has been introduced. A dedicated ferry, MV \"Marnock\", was built locally (at Ardmaleish on Bute) to provide a service to the island.\n\nInchmarnock is home to the largest colony of herring gulls in the Firth of Clyde and is a wintering ground for greylag geese.\n\n"}
{"id": "2062612", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2062612", "title": "Rupununi", "text": "Rupununi\n\nThe Rupununi is a region in the south-west of Guyana, bordering the Brazilian Amazon. The Rupununi river, also known by the local indigenous peoples as \"Raponani\", flows through the Rupununi region. The name Rupununi originates from the word \"rapon\" in the Makushi language, in which it means the black-bellied whistling duck found along the river. \n\nThe Rupununi River is one of the main tributaries of the Essequibo River and is located in southern Guyana. The river originates in the Kanuku Mountains, which are located in the Upper Takutu-Essequibo region. The Rupununi River flows near the Guyana-Brazil border, and eventually leads into the Essequibo River. Throughout the flood season, the river shares a watershed with the Amazon. During the rainy season it is connected to the Takutu River by the flooded Pirara Creek, draining the vast swamps of the Parima or Amaku Lake. The region surrounding the Rupununi river is composed of mainly savannah, wetlands, forest, and low mountain ranges.The area of Region 9 is 57,750 square kilometers and has over 80 communities. Most people live within the Rupununi Savannah area, while the jungle covered areas are only populated near major rivers.\n\nThe geology of this area is divided into four main zones. Furthest south are areas of Rhyacian meta-sediments, meta-volcanics (Kwitaro Group) and associated granites, all intruded by Orosirian rocks of the Southern Guyana Granite Complex. The Kanuku Mountains consist of high grade gneises in a NE-SW belt. The Takutu Graben is a NE-SW fault bounded basin initially filled by basaltic lava, then Mesozoic sediments, including the Takutu Formation. To the north of the Takutu Graben almost flat lying Statherian sandstones and conglomerates of the Roraima Group sediments overly Iwokrama Formation felsic volcanics and associated Orosirian granites. Relict Hadean zircons (xenocrysts) in the Iwokrama Formation suggest that older crust must occur at depth.\n\nThe areas both in and surrounding the Rupununi river are home to a great diversity of terrestrial and aquatic ecosystems that harbor many species extirpated from other areas of South America. The Rupununi's freshwater eco-regions are areas of exceptional species richness, comparable to that of the Amazonia. Flora and fauna flourish in the Rupununi river because of the Rupununi's isolation from human activity. During an expedition, the South Rupununi Biodiversity Assessment Team (BAT), described the Rupununi river as being \"very diverse\".\"The Northern Rupununi has more than fourteen hundred species of vertebrates, more than twenty-eight hundred species of plants, and countless species of invertebrates\" (Rupununi, \"Rediscovering a Lost World\").\n\nThe vegetation and unperturbed tree life along the Rupununi river, is a haven for rare species of bird-life. A biodiversity study conducted by BAT (South Rupununi Biodiversity Assessment Team), discovered a total of 306 bird species living along the river. The critically endangered Red Siskin (\"Carduelis cucullata\"), was one of the many species of bird that were re-discovered in the Rupununi river. Another avian-survey of the North Rupununi river, conducted by David C. Morimoto, Gajendra Nauth Narine, Michael D. Schindlinger and Asaph Wilson (DCM, MDS), showed that \"4243 individuals, 292 species, and 58 families\" of birds inhabited the Northern Rupununi river. Other rare bird species that were found in the survey were the Crested Doradito (Pseudocolopteryx sclateri) and the Sun Parakeet (Aratinga solstitialis). The famed Harpy Eagle also inhabits the Rupununi and is the largest aerial predator in South America.\n\nNotable species include:\n\nReptiles thrive in the Rupununi river, preying off of small fish and crustaceans. In another study conducted by the BAT (South Rupununi Biodiversity Assessment Team), it was discovered that 34 different species of reptiles were living along the river. The black caiman is the largest predator in the Rupununi, measuring up to 5 meters in length, however it has become endangered due to hunting for their belly skins throughout the 1930s - 1970s.\n\nNotable species include:\n\nThe Rupununi is home to relatively healthy populations of the South America's giant mammals, including the largest feline terrestrial predators, the jaguar (Panthera onca) and the puma (Puma concolor). Both the jaguar and the puma are extremely elusive cats, adept at hunting anything from turtles to domesticated dogs. However they are seen as threats to livestock, and are hunted, which has ultimately resulted in a decline in their population numbers. Another large mammal that lives in the Rupununi is the Giant otter (Pteronura brasiliensis), which is the largest otter in the world. Various species of primates and smaller terrestrial herbivores and insectivores such as the Tapir (Tapirus), also live and forage along the Rupununi river.\n\nNotable species include: \n\nThe Rupununi has one of the most diverse aquatic ecosystems on the planet. A total of 410 species of fish inhabit the Rupununi, surpassing that of French Guiana (298 species) and Suriname (309 species). However, since there is a lack of freshwater fish taxonomists and researchers studying the area, it is estimated that there are at least 600 different species of fish in the Rupununi. Giants also lurk in the waters of the Rupununi. The arapaima (Arapaima) and the \"Lau-Lau\" \"(B. filamentosum)\" each measuring approximately 2, and in some exceptional cases 4 meters in length, have been found in the most remote corners of the Rupununi river. However, these river monsters are seldom seen and are rarely ever caught. Overexploitation and overfishing have forced these two species of fish to migrate deeper into unexplored territory in the Rupununi.\n\nNotable species include:\n\nIndigenous peoples have been part of the Rupununi landscape for millennia. Anthropologists have discovered Paleo-Indian petroglyphs, dated to be several thousands of years old along the course of the Rupununi river. Before the colonization of Guyana and the Rupununi region, the Makushi Amerindians, Wai-Wai and the Wapishana all inhabited the area. The Makushi migrated from what is now known as modern Brazil and Venezuela, to the northern areas of the Rupununi river, over four-hundred years ago. The Makushi Amerindians continue to live in the Rio Branco savannahs and northern Rupununi, surviving off of the abundance of fish, wildlife and forest resources of the area.\n\nSir Walter Raleigh claimed that the Rupununi was where the famed \"El Dorado\" was situated, however he never explored the river. Other early explorers such as Charles Waterton and Robert Schomburgk attempted to locate \"El Dorado\", and successfully managed to visit the supposed location of the South-American myth, which is in fact part of the northern Rupununi. However they never found \"El Dorado\".\n\nGuyana is a developing country that lacks sustainable economic, environmental and investment growth. Exploiting the Rupununi's resources through corporate agriculture, mining and petroleum extraction are potential pathways that Guyana could undertake. Extant roads such as the one connecting the Rupununi and the state of Roraima are being upgraded to travel all the way to Georgetown. A bridge has also been constructed on the Guyana-Brazil border, that links Lethem (Guyana) to Bonfim (Brazil). This infrastructure will facilitate the transportation of goods throughout the area, however it poses a threat to the Rupununi's fragile eco-system.\n\nIn order to formally protect the Rupununi's eco-system, NGO's and the Guyanese government have partnered up to attempt to enforce legislation to ban any perjudicial human activity towards the environment and wildlife in the Rupununi.\n\nEco-tourism in the Rupununi is an important part of Guyana's economy, especially for the local Amerindian people. There are many ranches and lodges such as the Karanambu Ranch, a protected area for giant otters and other endangered species in the Rupununi, started by Tiny McTurk (1927), that generate revenue from tourists visiting the Rupununi. Near to Karanambu is the ecolodge Caiman House http://www.rupununilearners.org/, a social enterprise that drives revenue to a public library, raising the pass rate into secondary school from near-zero in 2005 to 86% in 2019. \n\nConservation International host a website on the Rupununi that includes details of eco-tourism accommodation. Some more adventurous tourists are now starting to travel overland from Georgetown to Lethem via the Rupununi and on to Brazil, but the travel is very slow in the rainy season when the dirt roads degrade, and may be impossible. Rock View Lodge and The Pakaraima Mountain Inn are both near Annai 3–5 hours from Lethem, and are great places to stop en route. The Rupununi / Lethem Rodeo is a tourist attraction at Easter (during the dry season), and many people try to combine a visit to an eco-lodge with a trip to the rodeo. At that time it is essential to book in advance.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2062627", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2062627", "title": "Columnarios", "text": "Columnarios\n\nColumnarios are silver coins that were minted by Spain from 1732 to 1773 throughout its new colonies in present-day Latin America. While the majority of columnarios were struck in Mexico, smaller mints existed in Guatemala; Lima, Peru; Santiago, Chile; Potosí, Bolivia; and Colombia. The base denomination is an 8 reales coin (aka Piece of eight or Spanish dollar). Other minor denominations included 4 reales, 2 reales, 1 real, and 1/2 real. The 8 reales coin is the predecessor to the American dollar. Before the United States Mint was in production, columnarios circulated, along with other coinage, in the US colonies, as legal tender until the middle of the 19th century.\n\nPrior to the columnario, Spanish coins were hammer struck. These rather crude looking coins were called cobs. Clipping was a problem with cobs as it was easy to shave small amounts of silver from their edges, and although this action was punishable by death, it was still a widespread occurrence. The columnario, unlike the odd-shaped cob, is a round coin with milled edges which makes clipping detectable and less likely to occur.\n\nThe design of the columnario consists on the reverse of two worlds — representing the new world and old world — with a royal crown above. Below are the waves of the sea that separate the worlds and on the left and right are columns (hence the name \"columnarios\") representing the Pillars of Hercules adorned with crowns and wrapped with a banner spelling \"PLUS ULTRA\", meaning \"more beyond\". The reverse also has the letters \"VTRAQUE VNUM\", referring to the Old and New Worlds, \"Both are One\", and the date at the bottom, with mint marks on both sides.\n\nThe obverse features the crown's name followed by \"D G HISPAN ET IND REX\", meaning, \"By the Grace of God, King of Spain and the Indies.\" The assayer's mark is on the left and the denomination on the right of a large Spanish shield which is adorned with a royal crown atop. Various florets, rosettes, stops, and other features are used to separate features.\n\nThe edge has a repeating laurel leaf design which is very difficult to counterfeit and is often used for authentication purposes.\n\nCurrently, the Mexican 8 reales columnario is worth US$200 or more, depending on condition. Specimens from other mints fetch much higher values due to their rarity.\n\n"}
{"id": "2062637", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2062637", "title": "Yvonne Atwell", "text": "Yvonne Atwell\n\nYvonne Atwell (born 1943 in East Preston, Nova Scotia) is a Canadian hospital administrator and provincial politician. She is the first black woman elected as a MLA in Nova Scotia.\n\nAtwell was born in East Preston, Nova Scotia, in 1943. She left the province seeking work opportunities elsewhere.\n\nAtwell worked for 20 years as an administrator at Mount Sinai Hospital in Toronto, Ontario, becoming head of Patient Services. She returned to Nova Scotia in 1984.\n\nShe has been the president of the Black United Front and the African Canadian Caucus, a chair of the Indigenous Black and Mi'kmaq Program at Dalhousie University, a member of the Metropolitan Board of Trade's small business committee, and a member of the George Washington Carver Credit Union executive board.\n\nIn 1996 she ran unsuccessfully for the leadership of the Nova Scotia New Democratic Party. She won a seat in the Nova Scotia House of Assembly in 1998 for the riding of Preston, becoming the first black woman MLA in the province. She lost her seat in the 1999 provincial election.\n\nShe is currently the director of the African-Canadian Employment Clinic in Halifax. She is also currently the Vice President of the Nova Scotia New Democratic Party.\n\n"}
{"id": "2062639", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2062639", "title": "Parangtritis", "text": "Parangtritis\n\nParangtritis is a popular tourist beach and village area on the southern coast of Java in the Bantul Regency within the province of the Yogyakarta Special Region. There is a good road to the area which is about 30 km south of the city of Yogyakarta, located just on the border between Bantul and Gunung Kidul regencies. \n\nQuite large crowds of mainly local tourists visit Parangtritis over weekends and at holidays. Larger tourist buses as well as various types of cheaper minibuses ply the route to the beach from Yogyakarta. There are local tourist facilities at Parangtritis including parking arrangements, modest hotels which provide visitors with places to change and shower, and small restaurants. Often small ponies or horse-drawn carts can be hired for rides along the beach. Tourists also visit some of the various caves and springs in the cliffs and hills near Parangtritis, such as the Gua Tapan cave and the Beji spring, which are quite close to the beach,\n\nParangtritis is sometimes said to be a place to meet the legendary Nyai Loro Kidul (also known as \"Ratu Kidul\") or 'Queen of the South'. Local folklore warns visitors not to wear green clothes or the queen is likely to try to entice the wearer into the ocean to drown. The beach is not really a good swimming beach. Drownings are unfortunately not uncommon at Parangtritis, partly because many Indonesians have never had the opportunity to learn proper swimming technique at beach and partly because channels, strong rips and sizable waves often occur off the beach.\n\n"}
{"id": "2062646", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2062646", "title": "George Newlands", "text": "George Newlands\n\nGeorge McLeod Newlands is a Scottish theologian widely published in the fields of modern systematic theology, Christology, emancipatory theology, and the history of Christian thought. He is Emeritus Professor of Divinity at the University of Glasgow, and served as Chair of the Theology, Divinity & Religious Studies panel of the UK's 2008 Research Assessment Exercise and as President of the Society for the Study of Theology for 2013–14.\n\nNewlands held the 1577/1640 Chair of Divinity at the University of Glasgow from 1986 to 2008. He was previously a University Lecturer at the University of Cambridge and Dean of Trinity Hall. He is now an Honorary Professorial Research Fellow at the University of Glasgow and an Honorary Fellow of New College, University of Edinburgh.\n\nNewlands was Dean of Glasgow's Faculty of Divinity from 1988 to 1990, Head of the Department of Theology and Church History from 1986 to 1992, and Director of the Centre for Literature, Theology and the Arts] from 1998 to 2002. He was appointed by the General Assembly of the Church of Scotland to be Principal of Trinity College, Glasgow, the Church's college within the Faculty of Divinity, from 1991 to 1997 and again from 2001 to 2007.\n\nNewlands was educated at the University of Edinburgh (MA, BD, PhD, DLitt), Heidelberg (from where he travelled to attend the final seminar of Karl Barth in Basel), Paris, Zurich, and Churchill College, Cambridge (MA).\n\nNewlands is best known for his work interpreting the love of God, particularly a Christology of divine love. In \"Hilary of Poitiers: a Study in Theological Method\" (1978), Newlands argues for concepts of love as the key to exegesis in theology. In \"Theology of the Love of God\" (1980), Newlands takes concepts of the love of God to be the basic structuring element of Christian theology. Newlands engages interpretations of love in the Christian tradition and contemporary uses of concepts of faith, hope, and history, and proposes that the nature of God \"as\" love shapes every aspect of theology. In \"God in Christian Perspective\" (1994), Newlands's argument is developed further. An understanding of God as a multi-faceted model draws on Christology and Trinity, and faith and practice in community. God is personal, self-differentiated being, transcendent, yet also immanent in the created order as hidden divine presence. The core elements of theology (faith and revelation, divine action and Christology) are reappraised in the light of current theological proposals. Doctrines, Newlands argues, interact in a web of connection to shape Christian practice. A Christian understanding, however, must retain a basic core of unconditional love, Christologically characterised. A contemporary concept of God draws upon these core elements, and upon a retrieval of the historical traditions from which they arise. It can be articulated in language intelligible to contemporary citizens, and its consequences spelled out within the complexity of contemporary cultures. \"Generosity and the Christian Future\" (1997) carries this thesis to a further stage through engagement with emancipatory theologies, postmodernity, and political theory. \"John and Donald Baillie: Transatlantic Theology\" (2002), built on first access to the Baillie Papers, lies at the heart of Newlands's constructive proposal. Newlands takes the work of John Baillie and Donald Ballie as seminal to the understanding, justification and revisioning of a progressive Christian theology. This tradition is a trajectory against the stream of contemporary theology. In \" The Transformative Imagination: Rethinking Intercultural Theology\" (2004), Newlands offers a comparative study of connections between theology and culture, through the arts, the sciences, political and human rights issues, and shapes reflection on the mystery of God in a postfoundational frame.\n\nNewlands is also a pioneer in his theological treatments of human rights, published as \"Christ and Human Rights\" (2006), \"Faith and Human Rights\" (2008), and \"Hospitable God\" (2010). He has also written on Christian ethics (\"Making Christian Decisions\", 1985) and ecclesiology (\"The Church of God\", 1984).\n\nNewlands is probably unique in being both an ordained Minister of the Church of Scotland and a priest in the Church of England. He is a past Convenor of the General Assembly of the Church of Scotland's Panel on Doctrine and has served on the Doctrine Commission of the Church of England, and the Doctrine Committee of the Scottish Episcopal Church.\n\nIn May 2006, Newlands was involved in the creation of Affirmation Scotland a group within the Church of Scotland seeking \"to affirm and celebrate Christ's call for inclusion, generosity and hospitality, and to see the full affirmation of all Christians, progressive and traditional, straight, gay and lesbian, within the Church of Scotland\". He is also associated with OneKirk, a network \"committed to working for an inclusive, affirming and progressive church\". Both of these bodies came in the wake of controversies within the Church of Scotland regarding the blessing of civil partnerships for gay and lesbian people.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2062650", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2062650", "title": "Grob Aircraft", "text": "Grob Aircraft\n\nGrob Aircraft (previously known as \"Grob Aerospace\") is a German aircraft manufacturer, specialising in gliders and general aviation.\n\nSince its foundation in 1971, Grob Aircraft produced a range of aircraft. Initially focusing on gliders, it soon grew into other markets. The company has produced a range of trainer aircraft, many of which have been operated in quantity by a number of military air wings. It has also produced specialised high-altitude intelligence surveillance and reconnaissance (ISR) aircraft. According to Grob Aircraft, it has delivered over 4,500 airframes which have cumulatively flown over seven million hours across hundreds of operators spread over five continents.\n\nSince the 1970s, the copious use of carbon fiber reinforced polymer in the manufacture of its aircraft has been a hallmark of the firm's designs. Over 75% of the components of its aircraft, including composite (carbon fibre & glass fibre reinforced polymer) elements, are manufactured in-house at the firm's facility in Tussenhausen-Mattsies, Germany.\n\nThe company was founded as \"Grob Aerospace\" during 1971 by Dr Burkhart Grob. Grob had been a qualified pilot as well as a mechanical engineer who ran a business producing machine tooling prior to creating Grob; he had been inspired to produce his own glider after being informed of the lengthy production time involved in glider production at the time, convinced that it could done better. Accordingly, Grob Aerospace had been founded with the vision of producing full-composite gliders that would be highly cost-competitive while facilitating a high rate of construction.\n\nAt the onset of operations, Grob Aerospace was involved in the production of gliders, having quickly secured subcontracting work from the existing German manufacturer Schempp-Hirth to build the firm's Standard Cirrus glider under licence. In excess of 200 Standard Cirruses were produced by Grob, the initial example being constructed at its machining workshop in Mindelheim. As the firm's production capacity expanded, Grob Aerospace relocated its operational base to a larger facility at the newly-established Tussenhausen-Mattsies airfield.\n\nDuring 1974, Grob decided that it would pursue its own independent production of gliders, harnessing its accumulated experience with composite construction. Instead of producing gliders that directly competed with the larger established manufacturers, the company differentiated its product by orientating itself towards the club market and adopting competitive pricing for its new product, the G-102 Astir, the first Grob-designed glider. During its long production life, over a thousand examples of the type would be produced. The G-102 was quickly followed by the larger two-seat G 103 Twin Astir line of sailplanes.\n\nDuring the late 1970s, Grob also decided to branch out into motorised aircraft, developing the G 109. First flown on 14 March 1980, it was the world's first production all-composite motor glider upon receiving its type certification from the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) in 1981. In addition to widespread civilian use of the type, perhaps the most prominent operator of the G 109 was the Royal Air Force, who adopted it for their Volunteer Gliding Squadrons (VGS) to train Air Cadets through the Gliding Induction and Gliding Scholarship courses up until 5 May 2018; in RAF service, the Grob 109B was designated \"Vigilant T1\".\n\nThe G 109 was only the start of Grob Aerospace's motorised aircraft lineup. It was followed by the larger G 115, an all-composite two-seat aerobatic monoplane, which received certification from the FAA during 1987. Not all of the firm's designs were taken forward into production; the GF 200, a relatively unorthodox business aircraft, flew during the early 1990s but never progressed beyond test flights. The G160 Ranger, another business aircraft somewhat similar to the Pilatus PC12, similarly did not enter production. During 1996, Grob Aerospace decided to end production of gliders in favour of concentrating its manufacturing base on its powered aircraft instead.\n\nDuring the 1980s, Grob Aerospace partnered with American defense firm E-Systems and engine manufacturer Garrett to develop the G 520, otherwise known as Egrett/\"STRATO 1\", a specialised high-altitude aircraft. First flown on 24 June 1987, the type soon established five world records. During 1992, the German Air Force placed an order for a batch of nine \"EGRETT II\" aircraft, as well as for a single two-seat trainer and one of the demonstrators. However, in February 1993, the German order was later cancelled; this outcome was attributed to the peace dividend following the collapse of the Soviet Union and a decrease in military tensions.\n\nDuring the mid-2000s, Grob Aerospace secretively embarked on a jet-powered light aircraft programme, the Grob G180 SP. In response to perceived market demand, this aircraft would possess both the short-field and cargo-carrying performance traditionally associated with turboprop-powered aircraft, as well as the extensive use of composite materials. The aircraft's requirements were defined in close collaboration with the Swiss-based company ExecuJet Aviation Group. Following its public unveiling, it was initially referred to as the \"SPn Utility Jet\". Plans for a family of aircraft based on the type were mooted at one stage. During June 2005, Grob Aerospace president Dr Andreas Plesske stated of the G180 SPn: \"We have created a new category of jet aircraft\".\n\nThe G180 SPn performed its maiden flight on 20 July 2005. The second prototype crashed shortly after takeoff on 29 November 2006 close to the production plant in Germany; chief test pilot Gérard Guillaumaud, the aircraft's sole occupant, was killed. During February 2007, following a three month break, flight testing resumed; by this point, certification was targeted for early 2008.\n\nDuring November 2008, development of the G180 SPn was put on hold by the insolvency of Grob Aerospace. Prior to the company's collapse, around 100 orders had been secured for the G180, which had a list price of €5.9 million ($8.7 million). While subsequent attempts had been made to raise investment to resume development, these came amid the Great Recession. Grob Aerospace's largest creditor did not approve the sale of the G180 SPn to Guizhou Aircraft Industry Corporation. Niall Olver, Grob Aerospace's former CEO, was appointed by the creditor to find new investors to buy the assets of the G180 SPn with the aim of restarting the program by June 2009. During March 2009, Olver indicated that the then-current plan was to complete certification and commence production near the middle of 2012. The rights to the aircraft became the property of Allied Aviation Technologies.\n\nOn 18 August 2008, Grob Aerospace filed for insolvency. As a consequence, the firm suspended the majority of its activities, including all light-jet production; this shutdown raised questions over the timely delivery of Bombardier Aerospace's Learjet 85 prototypes, of which Grob had been contracted to produce. While efforts were made to seek new investors to rescue the company, most of Grob's employees were released on 3 November 2008. Niall Olver, Grob's chief executive officer, stated of the suspension:\n\nOn 16 December 2008, Grob insolvency administrator, Dr. Michael Jaffé, announced that two parties had expressed interest in taking over the insolvent company, Munich based H3 Aerospace and the Chinese Guizhou Aircraft Industry Corporation. Both companies offered around $4.5 million for Grob, while Guizhou had also offered an additional $3.5 million to separately acquire the SPn jet program.\n\nIn January 2009, it was announced that H3 Aerospace had reached an agreement to acquire the training aircraft and support business of Grob Aerospace; shortly thereafter, it was rebranded as \"Grob Aircraft AG\". The production of training aircraft, which had been halted during November 2008 due to insolvency, was restarted during February 2009.\n\nIn April 2012, it was announced that Argentina's government-controlled Aircraft Factory FAdeA plans to produce 100 IA-63 Pampa II training and combat aircraft at its plant in Cordoba in association with Grob Aircraft AG. The Pampa II aircraft will have several parts for its updated version supplied by Grob.\n\nDuring 2010, Grob Aircraft introduced the G 120TP, a new single engine training aircraft, powered by a 450SHP Rolls Royce B250F turboprop engine and equipped with a Mühlbauer MT5 (five blade) composite propeller. This aircraft was specifically designed to perform a wider range of the training syllabus than its contemporary peers, allowing more training to be performed using this single type. Since the start of serial production of the G 120TP, in excess of 100 aircraft have been delivered to seven worldwide fleet customers.\n\nGrob Aircraft also offers the Grob G 520 Egrett for special mission applications.\n\nGrob Training Systems provides a ground-based training system (GBTS) for the G 120TP, which includes aircrew and maintenance technician training as well as training system logistics support. The system typically consists of computer-based classroom training and G 120TP Flight Training Devices.\n\nThe G 120TP Flight Training Device (FTD) features a G 120TP cockpit that is used to train basic and emergency procedures. A dome display screen is mounted to allow advanced flight maneuvers and formation flight training, in addition to basic flight training.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2062658", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2062658", "title": "Castle Square, Warsaw", "text": "Castle Square, Warsaw\n\nCastle Square () is a historic square in front of the Royal Castle – the former official residence of Polish monarchs – located in Warsaw, Poland. It is a popular meeting place for tourists and locals. The Square, of somewhat triangular shape, features the landmark Sigismund's Column to the south-west, and is surrounded by historic townhouses. It marks the beginning of the bustling Royal Route extending to the south.\n\nThe column commemorating King Sigismund III of Poland (a work by Clemente Molli, erected in 1644) is the oldest and one of the symbolic landmarks of the city and the first secular monument in the form of a column in modern history. On the east side of the square stands the Royal Castle reconstructed after the devastation of World War II. It was formerly the residence of the dukes of Mazovia, and then of the Polish kings and grand dukes of Lithuania from the 16th to 18th centuries. The Germans bombed and blew it up in the beginning of World War II (September 1939), and then completely destroyed in 1944–1945 (see picture below). \n\nIn 1949 the square was connected by an escalator to the newly formed (East-West Route), which runs under Castle Square though a tunnel; and the viaduct (leading to the Silesian-Dąbrowski Bridge) was built in the place of viaduct Pancer, destroyed during World War II. In 1907 the viaduct was modernized to handle electric trams that went over there less than a year later.\n\nThis square has witnessed many dramatic scenes in Polish history. Patriotic demonstrations took place there during the period before the outbreak of the January uprising of 1863. On 27 February 1861, Russian bullets killed five people. On 8 April 1861 five rota of infantry and two troops of Russian cavalry (about 1,300 people) led by General carried out a bloody massacre of civilians, resulting in the deaths of more than 100 people.\n\nDuring martial law the square became the scene of the particularly brutal riot, with ZOMO police rushing through demonstrations on 3 May 1982.\n\nThe square is a hub for tourists and locals, who gather to watch street entertainers, participate in rallies, watch concerts and even engage in breakdancing. In 1997, at the Castle Square, US President Bill Clinton gave a speech welcoming Poland to membership in NATO.\n\nCastle Square featured the United Buddy Bears exhibition in summer 2008 – an array of 140 two-metre-high sculptures, each designed by a different artist, touring the world as a symbol of cultural understanding, tolerance and mutual trust. According to official information, more than 1.5 million visitors were counted.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2062660", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2062660", "title": "Republic Polytechnic", "text": "Republic Polytechnic\n\nRepublic Polytechnic (Abbreviation: RP) is an institution of higher learning in Woodlands, Singapore within walking distance of Woodlands North MRT station. Founded in 2002, it was the first school system in Singapore to use the problem-based learning (PBL) pedagogy for all its diploma programmes.\n\nIn contrast to polytechnics in the United States and the United Kingdom, polytechnics in Singapore admit majority of their students after secondary school, which is after at least 10 years of formal education. Diplomas in a specialised area of study, Biomedical Sciences for example, are generally awarded after completing 3 years of studies.\n\nRepublic Polytechnic's project team began operating in the premises of Data Storage Institute, National University of Singapore in January 2002. On 1 July that year, it moved into Tanglin Campus which was previously occupied by the Ministry of Education, Singapore. The polytechnic opened its doors to the first intake of students in 2003 before moving to the current Woodlands campus at Woodlands Avenue 9 in 2007. The polytechnic saw its twelfth batch of students graduating in 2017, also the fifteenth anniversary of the polytechnic.\n\nEach diploma awarded by Republic Polytechnic is recognized for articulation into a bachelor's degree at a university in Singapore or a top university across the world.\n\nAs of 2020, RP has 7 schools and 1 academic centre which offers 37 full-time diplomas:\n\nRP's Industry Immersion Programme (IIP), or internship, is designed to give students a first-hand experience of the work environment and lets them apply the knowledge they have gained from the classroom. Each year, final-year students are placed on internship with over 1,200 industry partners. The duration ranges from 20 to 24 weeks and is an integral part of the diploma programme. Some students have also pursued their internships overseas during their 3rd year of study at RP. The countries include the United States, Australia and New Zealand, to destinations closer to home such as Indonesia, China and Myanmar.\n\nThe polytechnic also has a Continuing Education and Training (CET) learning arm for upskilling and lifelong learning. In line with Singapore's SkillsFuture movement, these part-time programmes - short courses and certificates offered by the Academy for Continuing Education known as ACE@RP – allow learners to stay relevant in the current knowledge-based global economy. They include: \n\nIn January 2019, the polytechnic launched the Diploma in Applied Science in Urban Agricultural Technology, the first full-qualification diploma course in agricultural technology in Singapore. The aim of the programme is to train the next generation of high-tech farmers so that the country can produce more of its own food.\n\nOn 31 July 2007, RP's Woodlands campus was officially opened by Singapore's Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong. The campus was designed by Japanese architect, Fumihiko Maki and DP Architects. Completed in 2006, the new campus is able to cater 13,000 students. It is conceived as a campus with a central nucleus which contains 11 learning Pods (8-9 storeys high) which are unified by 2 elliptical decks of common facilities, namely \"The Lawn\" and \"The Agora\".\n\nAlso known as a \"Paperless Campus\", RP's Woodlands campus is backed by IT-supported network for both academic and administrative functions. It employs the latest technology, through a wireless IT infrastructure supported by a comprehensive hardware-software system. In line with its green approach, environmentally friendly features such as fritted glasses, flooring made from recycled nylon and tyres, and sunshade louvres were integrated in the building design. Instead of the conventional air-conditioning system, the campus is equipped with tanks containing chilled water, which are recharged at night using low tariff electricity. This significantly reduces overall electric consumption.\n\nIn 2008, RP earned the ASEAN Best Practices for Energy Efficient Buildings Competition under the New and Existing Buildings category. RP was also honoured with the President*s Design Award in 2009. The campus was also the first to win the First-ever Singapore Green Mark Plantinum award for its eco friendly design.\n\n\n\n\n\nRepublic Polytechnic collaborates with industry partners to establish and maintain close industrial linkages.\n\nSome examples include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2062668", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2062668", "title": "Actant", "text": "Actant\n\nIn narrative theory, actant is a term from the actantial model of semiotic analysis of narratives. The term also has uses in linguistics, sociology, computer programming theory, and astrology.\n\nAlgirdas Julien Greimas (1917–1992), professor of semiotics, is widely credited with producing the actantial model in 1966. This model reveals the structural roles typically performed in story telling; such as \"hero, villain (opponent of hero), object (of quest), helper (of hero) and sender (who initiates the quest).\" Each of these roles fulfill an integral component of the story, or, narrative. Without the contribution of each actant, the story may be incomplete. Thus, an \"actant\" is not simply a character in a story, but an integral structural element upon which the narrative revolves.\n\nAn actant can also be described as a binary opposition pairing, such as a hero paired with a villain, a dragon paired with a dragon slaying sword, a helper paired with an opponent. Actantal relationships are therefore incredibly useful in generating problems within a narrative that have to be overcome, providing contrast, or in defining an antagonistic force within the narrative. However, the same character can simultaneously have a different actant (or way of concern) in regard to a different sequence of action, event or episode in the story. Therefore, it should be distinguished from a character's consistent role in the story like the archetype of a character. The concept of actant is important in structuralism of narratology to regard each situation as the minimum independent unit of story.\n\nIn 1969 Julia Kristeva also attempted to understand the dynamic development of the situations in narratives with Greimas's actantial model. She thought the subject and the object can exchange positions, and accordingly the supporter and the opponent can exchange positions too. Furthermore, the pair of subject and object sometimes exchanges its position with the pair of supporter and opponent. There are, however, multiple overlapping situations in narrative at a given time. To contend with the overlapping situations present in all narrative structure, she called the potential actant shifts not \"change\", but \"transformation.\" This should not be confused with Greimas's own transformational model, another narratological framework.\n\nIndependently, researching Russian folklores, Vladimir Propp also provided the \"7 act spheres\":\nHowever, these are not the types of the person in the story, but rather patterns of behavior: the same person may sometimes as one \"sphere\", and at other times as a different \"sphere\".\n\nLinguist Lucien Tesnière considered the function of a verb as most important in dependency grammar and invented the term \"actant\", various persons that accompany a verb:\nThis concept of actant is similar to that of argument.\n\nAlgirdas Julien Greimas redefined actants as the 3 pairs \"Modulations\":\n\nIn sociology, the semiotic term \"actant\" was incorporated into the actor-network theory by Bruno Latour and Michel Callon, the activity of which is described as \"mediation\" or \"translation\".\n\nSince ancient times, astrology considered and analyzed the position of the persons concerning a situation with the symbols of the celestial objects and constellations. Georges Polti counted up the needed positions in his famous \"The Thirty-Six Dramatic Situations\". Étienne Souriau reduced them to only 6 positions named \"dramaturgic functions\" with astrological symbols:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2062672", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2062672", "title": "Roberto Francisco Chiari Remón", "text": "Roberto Francisco Chiari Remón\n\nRoberto Francisco Chiari Remón (March 2, 1905 in Panama City – March 1, 1981) was the President of Panama in 1949 and from 1960 to 1964. He belonged to the Liberal Party.\n\nHe was president of the Chamber of Commerce. He worked in the sugar company of his family with his father and brothers. He was the only one of his brothers that was interested on politics. He was elected to the National Assembly on 1940. During the Ricardo de la Guardia administration he was Minister of Health and Public Works. He was one of Domingo Díaz Arosemena's vice presidents and briefly served as acting president in 1949. He lost the presidential elections of 1952. He was president of his Liberal Party for the next 8 years.\n\nHe was elected in a clean and peaceful election. He was campaigning against former president Ricardo Arias and Victor Goytia.\n\nHis government worked hard on the education sector. The General Hospital of the Social Security was inaugurated and an extensive vaccination program was developed.\n\nHis administration is most remembered for the historic events of January 9, 1964, known today as Martyrs' Day. During a dispute between Panamanian and American students regarding the right to raise the Panamanian flag next to the U.S. flag at Balboa High School the Panamanian flag was torn. This flag desecration sparked four days of fighting between civilians and the US Army. 22 Panamanians and four Americans died. Following these events, Chiari made the decision to break diplomatic relations with the United States, making Panama the first Latin American country to make this call. This spurred negotiations that ultimately ended in the 1977 Torrijos-Carter Treaties, which disbanded the Canal Zone and relinquished U.S. control of the Panama Canal to Panama on December 31, 1999. Because of this, Chiari is known as \"el presidente de la dignidad\" (The President of Dignity).\n\nAfter leaving office, he retired from public life and he returned to work in his private companies. He was president of the \"Industrial Sindicate\" from 1967 to 1969.\n\n"}
{"id": "2062685", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2062685", "title": "Linked exchange rate system in Hong Kong", "text": "Linked exchange rate system in Hong Kong\n\nA linked exchange rate system is a type of exchange rate regime that pegs the exchange rate of one currency to another. It is the exchange rate system implemented in Hong Kong by Honorary Vice-President at the University of Hong Kong, Professor Y.C. Jao, to stabilise the exchange rate between the Hong Kong dollar (HKD) and the United States dollar (USD). The Macao pataca (MOP) is similarly linked to the Hong Kong dollar.\n\nUnlike a fixed exchange rate system, the government or central bank does not actively interfere in the foreign exchange market by controlling supply and demand of the currency in order to influence the exchange rate. The exchange rate is instead stabilized by an exchange mechanism, whereby the Hong Kong Monetary Authority (HKMA) authorises note-issuing banks to issue new banknotes provided that they deposit an equivalent value of US dollars with the HKMA. The Government, through the HKMA, authorises three commercial banks to issue banknotes:\nNotes (HK$10 only) are also issued by the HKMA itself because of the continuing demand for small value notes among the public.\n\nAs a response to the Black Saturday crisis in 1983, the linked exchange rate system was adopted in Hong Kong on October 17, 1983, under the recommendation of Y.C. Jao, through the currency board system. The redemption of certificates of indebtedness (for backing the banknotes) were sent out by note-issuing banks to peg the domestic currency against the US dollar at an internal fixed rate of HK$7.80 = US$1.\n\nThe Hong Kong Monetary Authority (HKMA), Hong Kong's de facto central bank, authorised note-issuing banks to issue banknotes. These banks are required to have the same amount of US dollars to issue banknotes. The HKMA guarantees to exchange US dollars into Hong Kong dollars, or vice versa, at the rate of 7.80. When the market rate is below 7.80, the banks will convert US dollars for Hong Kong dollars from the HKMA; Hong Kong dollar supply will increase, and the market rate will climb back to 7.80. The same mechanism also works when the market rate is above 7.80, and the banks will convert Hong Kong dollars for US dollars.\n\nThe Hong Kong dollar is backed by one of the world's largest foreign exchange reserves, which is over 7 times the amount of money supplied in circulation or about 48% of Hong Kong dollars M3 at the end of April 2016.\n\nSince 5 September 1998, the HKMA has provided a explicit convertibility undertaking to all licensed banks in Hong Kong to convert Hong Kong dollars in their clearing accounts into US dollars at the fixed exchange rate of HK$7.75 to US$1. Starting from 1 April 1999, the convertibility rate in respect of the Aggregate Balance moved from 7.75 by 1 pip (i.e. $0.0001) per calendar day. It converged with the convertibility rate applicable to the issuance and redemption of Certificates of Indebtedness at 7.80 on 12 August 2000.\n\nThe HKMA announced three refinements on 18 May 2005 to remove uncertainty about the extent to which the exchange rate may strengthen under the Linked Exchange Rate System:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2062688", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2062688", "title": "Helena River", "text": "Helena River\n\nThe Helena River is a tributary of the Swan River in Western Australia. The river rises in country east of Mount Dale and flows north-west to Mundaring Weir, where it is dammed. It then flows west until it reaches the Darling Scarp.\n\nIt passes through the western edge of the Darling Scarp between Gooseberry Hill, and Greenmount Hill before joining the Swan River at the southern edge of the historic town, now suburb, of Guildford.\n\nMany of the tributaries of the Helena River are unnamed due to their seasonality and size. However, Nyaania Creek on the northern side of the catchment and Piesse Brook on the southern side are significant through moving through built up areas, which also makes them susceptible to urban environment issues.\n\nUpper Helena catchment (i.e. above Mundaring Weir) has on the north side of Lake C.Y. O'Connor (formerly the Helena River Reservoir) a range of named creeks that occur in State Forest no 71 and 13:\n\nIn higher ground the Helena River passes mainly through State Forest or reserve. This has been beneficial for some of the catchment area, as it has been an important buffer between the urban settlements in the Mundaring and Kalamunda areas. The flora of the Helena Valley has been recognised as being of importance because of the relative richness.\n\nAt Darlington, and the locality of Helena Valley there is housing and agriculture on its banks before it emerges out on to the Swan Coastal Plain.\n\nAt Bellevue and Midland the river has historically passed hazardous industrial sites. This includes the Midland Railway Workshops site and the Midland livestock sale yards.\n\nIt is dammed in two places – the best known is the upper river dam known as Mundaring Weir which was part of C.Y O'Connor's Goldfields Water Supply Scheme.\n\nSince the lower dam – known as the Lower Helena Pipehead Dam has been constructed in the 1970s, flooding of the lower Helena River (in East Guildford and Guildford) has been substantially reduced. Most of the water collected in the Pipehead Dam is pumped back into Mundaring Weir. \n\nDue to this, restrictions in the Helena River catchment have been made to not allow activities that affect the quality of the Pipehead Dam – despite being adjacent to the built up areas within the Shire of Mundaring on the north side of the Helena River catchment.\n\nThe bridges design and strength were relevant to higher water flow prior to the construction of the Pipehead Dam, as significant flooding occurred in the early and mid twentieth century.\n\nThe main bridges are at: –\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2062698", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2062698", "title": "Yves Robert", "text": "Yves Robert\n\nYves Robert (19 June 1920 – 10 May 2002) was a French actor, screenwriter, director, and producer.\n\nRobert was born in Saumur, Maine-et-Loire. In his teens, he went to Paris to pursue a career in acting, starting with unpaid parts on stage in the city's various theatre workshops. From ages 12–20 he set type as a typographer, then studied mime in his early 20s. In 1948 he made his motion picture debut with one of the secondary roles in the film, \"Les Dieux du dimanche\". Within a few years, Robert was writing scripts, directing, and producing.\n\nYves Robert's directorial efforts included several successful comedies for which he had written the screenplay. His 1962 film, \"La Guerre des boutons\" won France's Prix Jean Vigo. His 1972 film \"Le grand blond avec une chaussure noire\" won the Silver Bear at the 23rd Berlin International Film Festival in 1973. In 1976, \"Un éléphant ça trompe énormément\", starring his wife, earned him international acclaim. Robert's 1973 devastating comedy \"Salut l'artiste\" is considered by many performers to be the ultimate film about the humiliations of the actor's life. In 1977, he directed another comedy, \"Nous irons tous au paradis\", which was nominated for a César Award for Best Film.\n\nIn 1990, Robert directed two dramatic films, \"My Mother's Castle\" (Le château de ma mère) and \"My Father's Glory\" (La Gloire de mon Père). Based on autobiographical novels by Marcel Pagnol, they were jointly voted \"Best Film\" at the 1991 Seattle International Film Festival, and received rave reviews. Over his career, he directed more than twenty feature-length motion pictures, wrote an equal number of scripts, and acted in more than seventy-five films. Although his last major role was perhaps in 1980, \"A Bad Son\" by Claude Sautet, as the working-class father of a drug-dealer, he continued acting past 1997.\n\nRobert played opposite Danièle Delorme in the 1951 play Colombe (Dove) by Jean Anouilh. They married in 1956, and jointly formed the film production company \"La Guéville\" in 1961. He died in Paris on 10 May 2002 from a cerebral hemorrhage. He was buried in Montparnasse Cemetery with the epitaph \"A man of joy ...\", where visitors leave buttons of many colors.He was survived by Danièle and two children, Anne and Jean-Denis Robert, by first wife, actress Rosy Varte. That month's Cannes Film Festival paid homage to his contribution to French film.\n\nDirector\n\nActor\n\nProducer\n\nHis black and white adaptation of the book \"La Guerre des Boutons\" having sold nearly 10 million tickets at the French box office in 1962, was hugely popular, and planned for a nationwide reissue 12 October 2011.\n\nSome films were also re-made in Hollywood. \"The Tall Blond Man with One Black Shoe\" (1972), a spy spoof featuring the physical comedic skills of Pierre Richard, became \"The Man with One Red Shoe\" (1985) with Tom Hanks. \"Pardon Mon Affaire\" (1976), a sexy farce with Jean Rochefort, became \"The Woman in Red\" (1984).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2062699", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2062699", "title": "Linden, Guyana", "text": "Linden, Guyana\n\nLinden is the second largest city in Guyana after Georgetown, and capital of the Upper Demerara-Berbice region, located at , altitude 48 metres (160 feet). It was declared a town in 1970, and includes the communities of MacKenzie, Christianburg, and Wismar. It lies on the Demerara River and has a population of roughly 29,298 (Bureau of Statistics, Population and Housing Census - 2002, GUYANA). It is primarily a bauxite mining town, containing many mines 60–90 metres deep, with many other pits now in disuse.\n\nCommercial bauxite mining started in Linden a hundred years ago. In 1916 the Demerara Bauxite Company Limited, known as DEMBA, a subsidiary of the Aluminum Company of Canada Limited, was established with the objective of mining, processing and selling bauxite.\nThe site chosen for this preliminary venture was on the Demerara River, south of the capital city Georgetown. At that time there was no settlement in the area, except for the wards of Wismar, Guyana Wismar and Christianburg. Mackenzie, the centre of the company's operations, takes its name from an American geologist of Scottish descent, George Bain Mackenzie, who first visited and explored the area for bauxite in 1913. He returned in 1914, bought lands for mining, and built several 45-ton wooden barges for use at the riverside near Three Friends Mine, which was the first mine to be worked.\n\nInitially, bauxite was mined with shovels and pick axes and mule carts removing overburden. The bauxite was shipped in a crude form by loading it onto barges, which were towed down the river to ships moored midstream off the Georgetown harbor. \n\nOver the years DEMBA established not only the machinery for crushing, sorting, washing, drying, storing and loading the ore that was mined, but also housing facilities for their permanent local and foreign work force. In addition, a complex of ancillary services, including a machine shop, carpentry shop, and an electrical shop a power generation and distribution system, potable water supply and a hospital was developed. The end product of this industrial, social and physical infrastructure was a compact township named Mackenzie, which depended on sources external to the bauxite community for its supply of food and spare parts. \nIn keeping with its policy of controlling the important sectors of the country's economy, the Government of Guyana nationalized the assets of DEMBA on 15 July 1971, and replaced it with the Guyana Bauxite Company Limited (GUYBAU). \nThe Bauxite Industry Development Company (BIDCO) was established in 1976, in Georgetown, as the holding Company of the bauxite industry. \n\nA similar act of nationalization, on 1 January 1975, saw the sister company in Berbice — Reynolds Metal Company — becoming the Berbice Mining Enterprise Limited (BERMINE). \nWith the Government of Guyana as a major shareholder, the move of nationalizing both bauxite entities set the stage for a close-knit unit. It was also more economical to coordinate the functions of GUYBAU and BERMINE under one holding. \nIt further allowed for an arrangement in which financial, material and human resources could be optimally allocated within the bauxite mining and processing activities. \nAs a result, the two entities were merged in October 1977, under the name of Guyana Mining Enterprise Limited (GUYMINE). The entities were subdivided into Berbice Operations and Linden Operations. \n\nThe Linden Mining Enterprise came into being in June 1992 when the Government signed an order under the Public Corporation Act to dissolve GUYMINE and convert the Berbice Operations and Linden operations into separate entities. \nBerbice Operations was reverted to the original name of Berbice Mining Enterprise Limited (BERMINE), and the Linden Operations was renamed Linden Mining Enterprise (LINMINE). \nLINMINE was placed under the management of an Australian firm, Mining and Processing Engineers - known as MINPROC – for three years (1992–95).\n\nThe three villages that made up Linden were previously known as Wismar, MacKenzie, and Christianburg, but were renamed and unified in 1970 as a township under the name Linden by then President Linden Forbes Sampson Burnham, also known as Forbes Burnham, after himself.\n\nThe Linden Museum of Socio-Cultural Heritage is located in the centre of Linden. The museum displays artifacts and pictures of the culture and heritage of the Linden community.\n\nIn 1895 Scottish engineer John Dagleish Patterson installed this very large iron wheel as prime mover for his sawmilling equipment. Patterson’s hydro-powered sawmill is the only one of its kind. The sawmill was dismantled but the water wheel remains as an example of how the timber industry was mechanized to exploit the rich natural resources of the area in Linden.\n\nGluck Island is an uninhabited island off Rockstone in the Essequibo River. It is situated at a distance of some 70 km from the Essequibo mouth. It is an eco-tourist destination site as it has several species of birds, animals and flora. The Victoria Regia Water Lily can be seen there blossoming with its more than one meter diameter giant leaves floating on lakes in a lush green environment. It is the nearest spot from Georgetown where you can observe this natural phenomenon in its original habitat. Scientists from Australia and Europe come to this part of world to study that plant.\n\nBig caimans can be spotted in the night while the best time to see giant otters is early in the morning. \nAbout 200 species of birds, including macaws and various species of parrots and herons have been identified after two short expert missions.\n\nIn 1964, Wismar was the site of the Wismar Massacre, where rioting targeted at the Indian minority also led to the widespread destruction of property. The disturbances started on 20 May, escalating to murder on 25 May before the arrival of British troops on 26 May. During this period more than two hundred properties were destroyed by fire and more than fifty people reported physical assaults, including at least seven rapes. The riots also claimed five lives: R. Khan and P. Mirgin, Indian residents of Wismar were killed on 25 May, along with G. English, an alleged looter. B. Wharton died in a fire on 27 May, while I. Bridgewater was killed on 28 May. The Wismar Massacre decreased the Indian population in Wismar; before the riots it was estimated at 3,000. This fell to about 300 by the following July, as more than 3,000 Indians were evacuated after the riots. The Wismar Massacre was triggered by the general climate of political and ethnic strife within Guyana in 1964. A rumor of that a couple of African descent was murdered is considered the trigger for the Wismar Massacre.\n\nOn 6 July 1964 an explosion blew apart the \"Sun Chapman\" launch as it sailed up the Demerara river from Georgetown to Mackenzie. Forty-three people of mostly African descent died either due to the explosion or drowned when the launch sank. Most of the thirty-three survivors, including the entire crew, were those fortunate to be on the deck or bow when the boat exploded. The \"Sun Chapman\" exploded shortly after leaving Horadia about sixteen miles from Mackenzie. By 8 July, thirty-two bodies were recovered from the river and taken to the Mackenzie Hospital morgue to be buried. Some badly decomposed bodies were also buried at Horadia. \n\nWith forty-three fatalities, the sinking of the \"Sun Chapman\" is the single largest loss of Guyanese life. Most victims were Lindeners traveling home from Georgetown along the Demerara River. The river was commonly used for this journey before the Linden-Soesdyke highway was constructed in 1966. The explosion was caused by a bomb, but the persons responsible and the type of explosives used remains unknown, this has led to numerous theories about the bombing.\n\n"}
{"id": "2062702", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2062702", "title": "Special session", "text": "Special session\n\nIn a legislature, a special session (also extraordinary session) is a period when the body convenes outside of the normal legislative session. This most frequently occurs in order to complete unfinished tasks for the year (often delayed by conflict between political parties), such as outlining the government's budget for the next fiscal year, biennium, or other period. Special sessions may also be called during an economic downturn in order to cut the budget. In other cases, a special session may be convened to address special topics, or emergencies such as war or natural disaster.\n\nWho calls a special session varies - by vote of the legislature during regular session, by the executive, or by the legislature's speaker or presiding officer. The United Nations has both special sessions and emergency special sessions.\n\nIn the United States of America, Article II, Section 3 of the United States Constitution gives the President of the United States the power to \"on extraordinary occasions, convene both Houses or either of them.\" \n\nThis power exists for urgent or extraordinary situations that require congressional action when Congress is adjourned. Presidents have exercised this power 46 times to recall only the Senate and 28 times to recall both Chambers of Congress, most recently by Harry Truman in 1948.\n\nThe Senate itself differentiates between \"extraordinary sessions\" called by the Presidential proclamation and \"special sessions\" that merely indicate a session not normally scheduled. The term \"session\" can refer to either the formal start and end of a Congressional session or the daily sessions of the chambers of Congress. Thus a formal \"special session\" will only happen when Congress has adjourned sine die and is not simply in recess (in other words Congress may or may not already be in an official session, but in recess, when convened).\n"}
{"id": "2062706", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2062706", "title": "Gene Long", "text": "Gene Long\n\nGene Long (born 1957) is a former politician in Newfoundland and Labrador, Canada.\n\nHe was elected in 1986 as the New Democratic Party member of the House of Assembly for the riding of St. John's East. Long ran for the party leadership in March 1989 but was defeated by Cle Newhook by a margin of 21 votes. Long lost his seat in the provincial election a month later.\n\nIn the 1990s, he moved to Toronto. He was a senior policy advisor in the Government of Ontario and later the communications manager at the Ontario Ombudsman's office. He worked as the communications manager at the public health department of the City of Toronto, and then as senior policy advisor at Toronto Public Health.\n\nHe is also the published author of a political history of Newfoundland. He has a Master of Arts degree from Memorial University of Newfoundland.\n\n"}
{"id": "2062707", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2062707", "title": "South Eastern Railway zone", "text": "South Eastern Railway zone\n\nThe South Eastern Railway (abbreviated SER) is one of the 18 railway zones in India and Part of Eastern Railways. It is headquartered at Garden Reach, Kolkata, West Bengal, India. It comprises Adra railway division, Chakradharpur railway division, Kharagpur railway division and Ranchi railway division.\n\nThe Bengal Nagpur Railway (BNR) Company was incorporated in 1887 to take over from the Nagpur Chhattisgarh Railway and to convert the line to broad gauge. The work was completed in 1888. The extension of the main line from Nagpur to Asansol was completed by 1891. A 161-mile branch line (258 km) that connected Bilaspur to Umaria coal mine was built and linked to the existing line from Umaria to Katni (1891). By the turn of the twentieth century, work on the Calcutta–Bombay and Calcutta–Madras lines was completed. Through the first half of the twentieth century work on the BNR lines progressed steadily. In 1921 the Talcher coalfields were connected by a railway line starting from Nergundi. In 1931, the Raipur–Vizianagaram line was set up, which connected the east coast with the Central Province. By the end of the 1930s the BNR owned the largest narrow-gauge network in the country. The BNR management was taken over by the British Indian government on 1 October 1944. and continued to be called by that name until 14 April 1952, when it was amalgamated with the East Indian Railway to form one of six newly carved zones of the Indian Railways: the Eastern Railway.\n\nOn 1 August 1955, the erstwhile Bengal Nagpur Railway portion was separated and a new zone, the South Eastern Railway, came into existence. In July 1967, the South Eastern Railway took over the Bankura Domodar River line.\nTill April 2003, the South Eastern Railway comprised eight divisions: Kharagpur, Adra, Sambalpur, Khurda Road, Visakhapatnam, Chakradharpur, Bilaspur and Nagpur. In April 2003 two new zones were carved out from the SER. On 1 April 2003 the East Coast Railway (E.Co.R) comprising South Eastern Railway's Khurda Road, Sambalpur and Vishakhapatnam divisions was dedicated to the nation; on 5 April 2003 the South East Central Railway (S.E.C.R) comprising South Eastern Railway's Nagpur and Bilaspur divisions and a new Raipur division was dedicated to the nation. On 13 April 2003 the SER reorganized Adra and Chakradharpur divisions to form the new Ranchi division. The South Eastern Railway has electric multiple unit sheds in Tikiapara, Kharagpur and Panskura. Electric locomotive sheds are in Santragachi, Tatanagar, Bokaro Steel City and Bondamunda. Diesel locomotive sheds are located in Kharagpur, Bokaro Steel City, and Bondamunda. The coach maintenance yard is in Santragachi. The South Eastern Railway has a major workshop located in Kharagpur.\n\nThe South Eastern Railway caters to the states of West Bengal, Jharkhand and Odisha. S.E. also runs regular electric multiple units (EMU) services to areas adjacent to Kolkata, from Howrah to Kharagpur, Amta, Medinipur, Tatanagar, Balasore Rourkela and Santragachi to Shalimar. It also handles major freight traffic to Kolkata and Haldia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2062708", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2062708", "title": "Ravachol", "text": "Ravachol\n\nFrançois Claudius Koenigstein, also known as Ravachol (1859–1892), was a French anarchist. He was born on 14 October 1859, at Saint-Chamond, Loire and died by being guillotined on 11 July 1892, at Montbrison after being twice found guilty of complicity in bombings.\n\nFrançois Koenigstein was born in Saint-Chamond, Loire as the eldest child of a Dutch father (Jean Adam Koenigstein) and a French mother (Marie Ravachol). As an adult, he adopted his mother's maiden name as his surname, following years of struggle after his father abandoned the family when François was only eight years old. From that time on he had to support his mother, sister, and brother; he also looked after his nephew. He eventually found work as a dyer's assistant, a job which he later lost. He was very poor throughout his life. For additional income he played accordion at society balls on Sundays at Saint-Étienne.\n\nRavachol became politically active. He joined the anarchists as well as groups organizing to improve working conditions. Labor unrest resulted in fierce reprisals by police. On 1 May 1891, at Fourmies, a workers' demonstration took place for the eight-hour day; confrontations with the police followed. The police opened fire on the crowd, resulting in nine deaths amongst the demonstrators. The same day, at Clichy, serious incidents erupted in a procession in which anarchists were taking part. Three men were arrested and taken to the commissariat of police. There they were interrogated (and brutalised with beatings, resulting in injuries). A trial (the Clichy Affair) ensued, in which two of the three anarchists were sentenced to prison terms (despite their abuse in jail.)\n\nIn addition to these events, authorities kept up repression of the communards, which had continued from the time of the insurrection of the Paris Commune of 1871. Ravachol was aroused to take action in 1892 against members of the judiciary. He placed bombs in the living quarters of the Advocate General, Léon Bulot (executive of the Public Ministry), and Edmond Benoît, the councillor who had presided over the Assises Court during the Clichy Affair.\nAn informant told of his actions, and Ravachol was arrested on 30 March 1892 for his bombings at the \"Restaurant Véry.\" The day before the trial, anarchists bombed the restaurant where the informant worked. Ravachol was tried at the Assises Court of Seine on 26 April. He was convicted and condemned to prison for life. On 23 June, Ravachol was condemned to death in a second trial at the Assises Court of Loire for three murders. His participation in two of them is disputed (he confessed only to the murder of the hermit of Montbrison, claiming it was due to his own poverty). On 11 July 1892, Ravachol was publicly guillotined.\n\nOn 9 December 1893, Auguste Vaillant threw a bomb into the French Chamber of Deputies to avenge Ravachol (the explosion injured one deputy).\n\nRavachol became a somewhat romanticised symbol of desperate revolt and a number of French songs were composed in his honour, such as \"la Ravachole\", to the tune of \"la Carmagnole\".\n\nRavachol has also appeared as a minor character in Frank Chadwick's role-playing game \"\" as well as in several of his memoirs.\n\nIn 2011, the character of the anarchist \"Claude Ravache\" appeared in the movie \"\". He was clearly inspired by Ravachol.\n\nThe 2019 video game developed by ZA/UM, Disco Elysium, takes place in Martinaise, a district of the city of Revachol, a clear reference to Ravachol. Also mentioned in the game is a city known as Koeningsten.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2062715", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2062715", "title": "Rants and Incendiary Tracts", "text": "Rants and Incendiary Tracts\n\nRants and Incendiary Tracts: Voices of Desperate Illumination 1558–Present is a book edited by Bob Black and Adam Parfrey. It is an anthology of 56 rants co-published, as a 240 page paperback, by Amok Press and Loompanics Unlimited in 1989 ().\n\nThe list of names and rants are as follows below.\n\n"}
{"id": "2062722", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2062722", "title": "James Rood Doolittle", "text": "James Rood Doolittle\n\nJames Rood Doolittle (January 3, 1815July 27, 1897) was an American politician who served as a U.S. Senator from Wisconsin from March 4, 1857, to March 4, 1869. He was a strong supporter of President Abraham Lincoln's administration during the American Civil War.\n\nBorn in Hampton, New York, Doolittle was the son of Reuben Doolittle and Sarah Rood. He attended Middlebury Academy in Wyoming, New York, and, in 1834, he graduated from Hobart College in Geneva, New York. He subsequently studied law and was admitted to the New York bar association in 1837.\n\nHe then established a law practice in Rochester. Doolittle moved to Warsaw, New York, in 1841. From 1847 to 1850, he was the district attorney for Wyoming County. He also served for a time as a colonel in the New York State militia. \n\nIn 1851, Doolittle moved to Racine, Wisconsin, and, in 1853, was elected Wisconsin Circuit Court Judge for the 1st Circuit, defeating incumbent appointee Wyman Spooner. During his time as judge, he presided over the July 1855 case of \"The State of Wisconsin v. David F. Mayberry\", the result of which led to the only recorded lynching in the history of Rock County, Wisconsin. Doolittle resigned from the court in March 1856.\n\nUntil the 1850 repeal of the Missouri Compromise, Doolittle was a Democrat. He left the party and was elected and then re-elected to the Senate as a Republican in 1857 and 1863, respectively. He was a delegate to the Peace Conference of 1861 in Washington, DC.\n\nWhile senator, Doolittle was the Chairman of the Committee on Indian Affairs. Along with his colleague, Jacob Collamer of Vermont, Doolittle represented the minority view for the Mason Report (June 1860), which was prepared by the Senate committee to investigate John Brown's raid on Harper's Ferry in October 1859. He also proposed a constitutional amendment to ban secession.\n\nDuring the Civil War, Doolittle supported many of Lincoln's policies, and he was active in representing Wisconsin's interests on Capitol Hill. During the summer recess of 1865, he visited the Indians west of the Mississippi River as chairman of a joint special committee that was charged with an inquiry into the condition of the Indian tribes and their treatment by the US civil and military authorities. In the West, the committee split into subcommittees, which considered different regions with Doolittle participating in the inquiry into Indian affairs in Kansas, the Indian Territory, and Colorado.\n\nThe report of the committee, \"The Condition of the Tribes\", was issued on January 26, 1867. Doolittle was accused by \"The New York Times\" in 1872, while he was under consideration for appointment as Secretary of the Interior in the projected \"reform cabinet\" by Democratic presidential candidate Horace Greeley, of suppressing the report, as it contained information exposing the Indian ring of fraudulent suppliers of goods to the Indian tribes under treaty obligations. The \"Times\" alleged that the report was printed only after the \"Cincinnati Gazette\" obtained a copy of it.\n\nDoolittle took a prominent part in the debate on the various war and reconstruction measures, upholding the federal government but always insisting that the seceding states had never ceased to be a part of the Union. He strongly opposed the Fifteenth Amendment and believed that each state should determine questions of suffrage for itself.\n\nAfter he left Congress, he ran for Governor of Wisconsin in 1871 as a Democrat. After he lost, he retired from politics.\n\nDoolittle returned to the Midwest and became a lawyer in Chicago, Illinois while he maintained his residence in Racine. He served for a year as the acting president of the Old University of Chicago, and he spent many years on its staff as a professor in the law school as well as serving on the Board of Trustees.\n\nHe was president of the National Union Convention of 1866 in Philadelphia and also of the 1872 Democratic National Convention in Baltimore, which adopted the nomination of Horace Greeley. He died of Bright's disease in Edgewood, Rhode Island in 1897, and was interred in Mound Cemetery in Racine, Wisconsin.\n\n Retrieved on 2009-04-28\n"}
{"id": "2062731", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2062731", "title": "This Little Piggy", "text": "This Little Piggy\n\n\"This Little Piggy\" or \"This Little Pig\" is an English-language nursery rhyme and fingerplay. It has a Roud Folk Song Index number of 19297.\n\nThe most common modern version is:\n\nThe rhyme is usually counted out on an infant or toddler's toes, each line corresponding to a different toe, usually starting with the big toe and ending with the little toe. A foot tickle is added during the \"Wee...all the way home\" section of the last line. The rhyme can also be seen as a counting rhyme, although the number of each toe (from one for the big toe to five for the little toe) is never stated.\n\nIn 1728, the first line of the rhyme appeared in a medley called \"The Nurses Song\". The first known full version was recorded in \"The Famous Tommy Thumb's Little Story-Book\", published in London about 1760. In this book, the rhyme goes:\n<poem>\nThis pig went to market,\nThat pig stayed home;\nThis pig had roast meat,\nThat pig had none;\nThis pig went to the barn's door,\nAnd cried week, week for more.\n</poem>\n\nThe full rhyme continued to appear, with slight variations, in many late 18th- and early 19th-century collections. Until the mid-20th century, the lines referred to \"little pigs\".\n"}
{"id": "2062734", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2062734", "title": "Texada Island", "text": "Texada Island\n\nTexada Island is the largest island in the Strait of Georgia of British Columbia, Canada. Its northern tip is located about southwest of the city of Powell River and west of the Sechelt Peninsula on the Sunshine Coast. A former mining and logging area, the island still has a few quarries and old logging roads. It is the largest of the Northern Gulf Islands at some in length and in width, with its length aligned along a northwest-southeast axis. The island is in land area and had a population of 1,053 in the 2011 census\n(1,107 in 2006, 1,129 in the 2001 census). The main settlements are Gillies Bay, Blubber Bay and Van Anda.\n\nOther islands in the archipelago are Lasqueti, Jedediah, Harwood, Nelson, Hernando, and Savary Islands. Texada is separated from the mainland and Nelson Island by Malaspina Strait on its northeast and from Lasqueti Island by Sabine Channel along its southwestern flank. Off its northwestern end it is separated from Harwood Island by Algerine Passage and is flanked by the Strait of Georgia on ¾ of its western side.\n\nUnlike all islands in the Strait of Georgia to the south and west, Texada Island is not part of the Islands Trust.\n\nTexada was named by the Spanish naval explorer José María Narváez for Felix de Tejada, a Spanish rear-admiral during the 1791 expedition of Francisco de Eliza. Narváez gave the name \"Isla de Texada\" to what is now called Lasqueti Island, and \"Islas de San Felix\" to Texada Island. The maps made by Eliza and Juan Carrasco in late 1791 moved the name \"Texada\" to the present Texada Island. The pioneer steamer\nSS \"Beaver\" would often stop at Texada Island to load up on wood and freshwater in its travels up the coast. At the time of Confederation the north end of the island became a fishing outport. For a few years, humpback whales were flensed on the beach, giving the place the epithet of Blubber Bay. Grey Whales migrating from California to Alaska pass by Texada Island. Twelve basking sharks were slaughtered as sport in Blubber Bay in 1947.\n\nIn 1876, a whaler called Harry Trim discovered iron ore, and mining began in earnest. Iron mines were explored and floated in 1876, with Premier Amor de Cosmos being involved in a land and mine scandal. The iron was used off and on—some going into Seattle built battleships, the USS \"Oregon\", for the Great White Fleet; gold mining was also important.\n\nCopper was discovered at Van Anda about 1898 by Olive and Harry Treat creating the Cornell Mine rich in copper and gold. A smelter, tramway and town was constructed. The community was named after Carrie Van Anda, wife of American mining capitalist Edward Blewett. J. D. Rockefeller invested in the iron mines, though he quickly sold having lost money on a Monte Cristo, Washington venture near Everett. The iron mines were picked up by the famed Union Iron Works of San Francisco. Canadian investors Sir William Mackenzie and Donald Mann also speculated in the Van Anda mines. Farms, orchards, logging and a sawmill were set up on Texada at this time as well. By the turn of the century, the copper boom was in full swing but the mines only yielded for a few years. Van Anda hosted an opera house and a Chinatown. A series of fires demolished the Van Anda townsite—the last in 1917. Sail races were also run from Vancouver to Van Anda around this time.\n\nBy 1910, Pacific Lime Company and BC Cement had set up limestone quarrying operations at Blubber Bay and Marble Bay. For almost a century, limestone quarrying continued. Much of the product was shipped to Seattle, Oregon or California. Railways, cableways and concentration plants were built for the mines, as was the arbutus-shaded company town of Blubber Bay. Limestone pits were dug all around the north section of the island. Lime kilns for sintering quicklime were raised around the northern end of the island.\nOne survives at Marble Bay and gives the name to Lime Kiln Bay. Other mines included an iron ore mine near Gillies Bay run by Kaiser Aluminum which shipped ore to Japan and Germany after 1945.\n\nCoastal ferries connected the island with the nearby cities of Vancouver and Nanaimo. The Union Steamship Company of British Columbia steamship \"Cheslakee\" capsized off Van Anda on January 22, 1913 with a loss of life. The famous BC sternwheeler R.P. Rithet was beached in Stuart Bay in 1923.\n\nA floating hospital was built by Columbia Coast Mission Boats and moored at Van Anda, until its need was greater in Knight Inlet and was moved .\n\nDuring U.S. prohibition, the island was a supply point for illegal alcohol into the United States, with a famous illegal distillery operating on the east shore. The remains of the hooch boiler can be seen on the beach.\n\nOn November 6, 2004, the tug \"Manson\", skippered by Dusty Davison, sank off Texada Island.\n\nA regular ferry service links Powell River and the main ferry terminal at Blubber Bay.\nThe first ferry to the island, after the discontinued Union steamships, was the \"Atrevida\". The island has two stores, a library, Credit Union, gas station, elementary school, hotel, bed and breakfasts, The Ravenous Raven Restaurant, two museums, two firehalls, an R.C.M.P. Detachment, Ambulance station and two post offices. Located near Gillies Bay, Texada Island also has an airport (Call Sign YGB) with a paved runway for private aircraft and scheduled services. There are parks, forests, lakes, beaches and mountains. Parks include South Texada Island Provincial Park and Shelter Point Park.\n\nTexada has a combination of light and soil conditions suitable for market agriculture. Today, the island caters mainly to weekending tourists and hunting season. A sandcastle contest is held in the summer on the occasion of the lowest tide of the year in Gillies Bay.\n\nA BC Hydro 500 kV powerline known as the Cheekye-Dunsmuir Line was built in 1982 running east to west across the middle of the Island, linking two sections of underwater transmission line that deliver power to Vancouver Island. A FortisBC natural gas pipeline, built in 1989, runs from south to north, where it splits, providing gas to Powell River and Vancouver Island. The island has produced 5 million tons of limestone a year; however, recent economic factors have lowered demand.\n\nIn 2007, Westpac LNG announced that it intended to build a liquefied natural gas (LNG) receiving terminal, and a gas-fired electricity generation project, at Kiddie Point on the north end of Texada. Controversy surrounding the project ramped up quickly: the year also witnessed the re-introduction of Texada Action Now by Texada residents, and the formation of the Alliance to Stop LNG, comprising a large number of conservation, environmental, community and labour groups around the Georgia Basin. As of summer 2009, the project was shelved for the time being due to the global economic downturn.\n\n\n\nHeather Harbord, Texada Tapestry. Harbour Publishing, 2009.\n\n"}
{"id": "2062740", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2062740", "title": "List box", "text": "List box\n\nA list box is a graphical control element that allows the user to select one or more items from a list contained within a static, multiple line text box. The user clicks inside the box on an item to select it, sometimes in combination with the or in order to make multiple selections. \"Control-clicking\" an item that has already been selected, unselects it.\n\nA list box is called codice_1 or codice_2 in the XForms standard. Select is used for allowing the user to select many items from a list whereas codice_2 only allows the user to select a single item from a list.\n\nIn web forms, the HTML elements and are used to display a listbox: \n\n<select multiple>\n</select>\n"}
{"id": "2062746", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2062746", "title": "Mangrove snake", "text": "Mangrove snake\n\nMangrove snake may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2062748", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2062748", "title": "Swedenborgian Church of North America", "text": "Swedenborgian Church of North America\n\nThe Swedenborgian Church in North America (also known as the General Convention of the Church of the New Jerusalem) is one of a few Christian sects that draws its faith from the Bible as illuminated by the teachings of Emanuel Swedenborg (1688–1772). The Administrative Offices of the denomination are located at 50 Quincy St., Cambridge, Massachusetts. \n\nThe church believes that the writings of Swedenborg expands upon a deeper understanding of the Christian bible. This new understanding began the second coming of Christ which is continually being manifested in spirit and truth rather than a physical appearance. The Swedenborgian Church of North America does not make any statements as to the exact authority of Swedenborg's writings on the Bible or to the correctness of either. Each Society and member is given the responsibility to arrive at their own conclusions, and the denomination allows for discussion and debate. It is also liberal on social issues and sexual ethics, such as the ordination of women, homosexuality, and abortion.\nThe Swedenborgian Church has a congregational form of governance. Local churches, often called societies, form regional associations and those associations send delegates to an annual convention. The Center for Swedenborgian Studies operates as the denomination's theological training institution and seminary. The center is located at Graduate Theological Union in Berkeley, California. The church also operates an online church called Swedenborgian Community Online which provides weekly resources on its website and social media. In 2003, the \"Swedenborgian Church of North America\" had about 1,800 members, almost identical to the membership it had in 1981 but rather less than the 5,440 it had in 1925.\nThe Swedenborgian Church in North America is one of the Four Church Organizations that comprise The New Church. It is a member of the National Council of Churches USA. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "2062754", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2062754", "title": "Homothetic vector field", "text": "Homothetic vector field\n\nA homothetic vector field (sometimes homothetic collineation or homothety) is a projective vector field which satisfies the condition:\n\nwhere c is a real constant. Homothetic vector fields find application in the study of singularities in general relativity. They can also be used to generate new solutions for Einstein equations by similarity reduction.\n\n"}
{"id": "2062757", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2062757", "title": "Fourth Doctor", "text": "Fourth Doctor\n\nThe Fourth Doctor is an incarnation of the Doctor, the protagonist of the BBC science fiction television series \"Doctor Who\". He was portrayed by Tom Baker.\n\nWithin the series' narrative, the Doctor is a centuries-old alien Time Lord from the planet Gallifrey who travels in time and space in his TARDIS, frequently with companions. At the end of life, the Doctor can regenerate his body; as a result, his physical appearance and personality change. Baker portrays the fourth such incarnation, a whimsical and sometimes brooding individual whose enormous personal warmth is at times tempered by his capacity for righteous anger.\n\nHis initial companion was intrepid journalist Sarah Jane Smith (Elisabeth Sladen), who had travelled alongside him in his previous incarnation, and she is later joined by surgeon Harry Sullivan (Ian Marter). His later companions included robotic dog K9, savage warrior Leela (Louise Jameson), Time Lady Romana (Mary Tamm and Lalla Ward), alien teenage aristocrat Nyssa (Sarah Sutton), teen genius Adric (Matthew Waterhouse), and Australian flight attendant Tegan (Janet Fielding).\n\nBaker portrayed the character for seven consecutive seasons, which remains the longest tenure of any actor to portray the lead, counting both the classic and modern series. He is considered to be one of the most recognisable and iconic incarnations of the Doctor both in the United Kingdom and internationally.\n\nThe Fourth Doctor appeared in 172 episodes (179, counting the regeneration in \"Planet of the Spiders\" and the aborted \"Shada\") over a seven-year period, from 1974 to 1981. This makes him the longest-running on-screen Doctor of the series. He also appeared in the specials \"The Five Doctors\" (via footage from the incomplete \"Shada\") and made his final appearance as the Doctor in the charity special \"Dimensions in Time\" (aside from a series of television advertisements in New Zealand in 1997). Tom Baker reappeared in the 50th anniversary special as a mysterious curator.\n\nThis incarnation is generally regarded as one of the most recognisable of the Doctors and one of the most popular, especially in the United States. In polls conducted by \"Doctor Who Magazine\", Tom Baker has lost the \"Best Doctor\" category only three times: once to Sylvester McCoy (the Seventh Doctor) in 1990, and twice to David Tennant (the Tenth Doctor) in 2006 and 2009. The Fourth Doctor's eccentric style of dress and speech – particularly his trademark long scarf and fondness for Jelly Babies – made him an immediately recognisable figure and he quickly captivated the viewing public's imagination. Producer Philip Hinchcliffe has often stated that the Fourth Doctor's Bohemian appearance and anti-establishment views appealed to older, college-age students. The Fourth Doctor's time enjoyed a significant boost in viewing figures, averaging between 8 and 10 million viewers in just his first year (20–25 percent of the entire viewing audience of Britain). By 1979, the figures averaged between 9 and 11 million, going as high as 16.1 million for the final episode of \"City of Death\" (though this was during the ITV technicians strike of 1979 which meant the BBC was the sole broadcaster on the air for several weeks).\n\nThere are also novels and audio plays featuring the Fourth Doctor. Two early audio plays featuring Tom Baker voicing the Fourth Doctor date from Baker's television tenure as he had mainly declined to appear in any further audio plays since leaving the series. In 2009, however, it was announced that a new five-part series would be produced by BBC Audio (see below).\n\nAfter contracting radiation poisoning from the crystals of the planet Metebelis 3, the Third Doctor makes his way back to UNIT headquarters in the TARDIS, where the Time Lord K'Anpo Rimpoche aids him in regenerating (\"Planet of the Spiders\").\n\nIn his new incarnation, the Doctor is eager to leave Earth in favour of exploration, thus drawing back from continuous involvement with UNIT (with which he had worked closely as the Third Doctor). He has also grown tired of working for the Time Lords. Despite attempts to avoid them altogether, the Time Lords continue to send him on occasional missions, including an attempt to prevent the creation of the Daleks (\"Genesis of the Daleks\"), during which he also meets Davros. The Doctor travels with journalist Sarah Jane Smith, whom he had befriended prior to his regeneration, and, for a time, with UNIT Surgeon-Lieutenant Harry Sullivan.\n\nAfter a battle with Zygons in Scotland, Harry (having just spent an entire season with the Doctor as they tried to get back to the TARDIS) decided that taking the train was safer than the TARDIS, which the Doctor and Sarah Jane chose to try to make an appointment in London. Instead they ended up on the planet Zeta Minor (\"Planet of Evil\"), located at the far edge of the known universe. From this point on, the Doctor and Sarah Jane travelled alone.\n\nThe Doctor's companionship with Sarah Jane came to an end when he received a telepathic summons to Gallifrey, as humans were not then allowed on the planet. The summons turns out to be part of a trap set by his enemy the Master. The renegade Time Lord has used up all his regenerations and has degenerated into little more than a withered skeletal husk. The Doctor is framed for the assassination of the President of the High Council of Time Lords and put on trial. To avoid execution, the Doctor invokes an obscure law and declares himself a candidate for the office, giving himself the time he needs to prove his innocence and expose the real culprit. This ultimately results in a climactic battle with the Master (\"The Deadly Assassin\").\n\nThe Doctor is seen to travel alone for the first time, returning to a planet he had visited centuries before. During his previous visit, he had accidentally imprinted his own mind on a human colony ship's powerful computer, Xoanon, leaving it with multiple personalities. On his second visit the Doctor is now remembered as an evil god by the descendants of the colonists, some of whom had become a warrior tribe called the Sevateem. After the Doctor cures the computer, one of the Sevateem, Leela, joins him on his travels (\"The Face of Evil\"). The Doctor brings the intelligent but uneducated Leela to many locales in human history, teaching her about science and her own species' past. In Victorian London, the pair encounters the magician Li Hsien Chang and his master, the self-styled Weng-Chiang (\"The Talons of Weng-Chiang\"). Weng-Chiang is revealed to be a time-jumping criminal from the Earth's distant future.\n\nLater, the Doctor and Leela visit the Bi-Al Foundation medical centre, where they acquire the robot dog K-9 (\"The Invisible Enemy\"). While K-9 is malfunctioning, a time distortion leads the TARDIS back to contemporary rural England. While investigating the distortion, he and Leela are confronted by an ancient being that feeds on death from Time Lord history, called the Fendahl (\"Image of the Fendahl\"). Eventually, the Doctor returns to Gallifrey and declares himself Lord President, based on the election held during his previous visit. This is in fact a ploy to reveal and defeat a Vardan invasion plan, which led to the unexpected consequence of leaving Gallifrey open to attack by the Sontarans (\"The Invasion of Time\"). In the aftermath Leela and K9 decide to remain on Gallifrey. The Doctor comforts himself by producing K9 Mark II.\n\nShortly afterward, the powerful White Guardian assigns the Doctor the task of finding the six segments of the Key to Time, sending a young Time Lady named Romana (as portrayed by Mary Tamm) to assist him. The two Gallifreyans travel to a variety of planets, encountering strange and unusual allies and enemies, gathering the six segments and defeat the equally powerful Black Guardian, who sought the Key for himself. After the conclusion of the quest, Romana regenerates into a new form (portrayed then by Lalla Ward) (\"Destiny of the Daleks\").\n\nIn an effort to evade the Black Guardian, the Doctor installs a \"Randomiser\" in the TARDIS so that not even the Black Guardian can anticipate where they go. Ironically, the first place the Randomiser sends them is the home planet of the Daleks, Skaro (\"Destiny of the Daleks\"). Perhaps because of this, the Doctor begins frequently over-riding the machine, first travelling to Paris for a holiday, only to get caught up in an alien scheme to steal the Mona Lisa (\"City of Death\"). He eventually discards the device altogether, remarking that he's fed up with not knowing where he's going.\n\nShortly after this, the Fourth Doctor and Romana are projected outside the known universe and into a universe of negative coordinates, known as Exo-Space. The TARDIS lands on a planet called Alzerius (\"Full Circle\"), where they are joined by a young prodigy named Adric. It's in E-Space that the Doctor destroys the last of a race of giant Vampires who had once threatened all life in his universe. Eventually, the Doctor and his two companions find themselves in a white void with no coordinates, a sort of membrane between the two universes. A way out soon forms, but Romana and K-9 choose to remain behind to help free a race of enslaved creatures in E-Space (\"Warriors' Gate\").\n\nThe Doctor and Adric have only just made it back when they're asked to help the people of Traken from a creature known as \"Melkur.\" On Traken, Adric and the Doctor are introduced to the aristocratic Nyssa of Traken. Both Nyssa and her father, Tremas, assist the Doctor in stopping Melkur, who is in fact revealed to be another TARDIS that is controlled by the Master. The Master is narrowly defeated, but manages to take over Tremas' body, thus giving himself a new incarnation.\n\nThe Doctor decides to travel to Earth to scan a real Police Box as part of a plan to repair the \"Chameleon Circuit\", the shape-changing mechanism in the TARDIS. However, the Doctor soon spots a mysterious ghostly figure looking at him in the distance. He eventually confronts the figure, who warns him of future dangers.\n\nAs the Doctor prepares to travel to the planet Logopolis to get the Chameleon Circuit fixed, Tegan Jovanka appears in the console room (having previously gotten lost in the corridors of the TARDIS). The conduit between E-Space and our own universe is revealed to be a Charged Vacuum Emboitment (CVE) created by the mathematicians of Logopolis as part of a system to allow the Universe to continue on past its point of heat death. Nyssa shows up, explaining that she was brought to Logopolis by the same figure that the Doctor encountered. Logopolis soon falls under the Master's control, but the stasis field he is generating ends up releasing Entropy and eroding matter throughout the universe, threatening to destroy the entire universe.\n\nThe Master agrees to help the Doctor stop the spread of Entropy by adapting the Pharos Project radio telescope on Earth so that they are able to reopen the CVEs. However, when the Master tries to take control of it, the Doctor runs out under the upturned radio dish to sever the cable linking the Master to the CVEs. The Master makes the dish start rotating so that the Doctor will fall to his death. Before he falls, he manages to tear out the cable, only to leave his companions watching as he clings to the cable. As his grip begins to slip, he sees visions of all the enemies he's faced over the years, then falls. Adric, Nyssa, and Tegan gather around the mortally wounded Doctor and call out his name. The Doctor begins seeing visions of all his companions and even the Brigadier calling his name.\n\nHe then looks up at the three of them and utters his last words: \"It's the end-- but the moment has been prepared for...\" He then motions to the white-clad figure of the Watcher, who begins approaching the Doctor. The Watcher, a manifestation of the Doctor's future incarnation, merges with the Doctor and triggers his regeneration. \"He was the Doctor all the time,\" remarks Nyssa, as the three watch him transform into the Fifth Doctor.\n\nThe Fourth Doctor appears again in the 20th anniversary special \"The Five Doctors\" (1983). A renegade Time Lord attempts to pull the first five incarnations of the Doctor out of time, inadvertently trapping the Fourth Doctor (and Romana) in a \"time eddy\" from which they are later freed. The Fourth Doctor also had a small cameo at the beginning of Dimensions in Time, warning his Third, Fifth, Sixth and Seventh incarnation to watch out for the Rani. Brief holographic clips of the Fourth Doctor appear in \"The Next Doctor\" (2008) and \"The Eleventh Hour\" (2010).\n\nIn the fiftieth anniversary special, \"The Day of the Doctor\" (2013), the Fourth Doctor appears again in clips as past and future incarnations come together to assist in the saving of Gallifrey. Tom Baker also appears in the final scene of the episode, as a mysterious elderly museum curator who appears right after the Eleventh Doctor remarks he would like to hold this job some day. He alludes to his resemblance to the Fourth Doctor by talking about revisiting \"old favourite\" faces and hints that he too might be or have been the Doctor.\n\nImposingly tall, with eyes that seem to constantly boggle, a mass of curls for hair and prominently displayed teeth, the Doctor favours an outfit that usually consists of a shirt, waistcoat, cravat, trousers, a frock coat (with pockets containing a seemingly endless array of apparently useless items that would nevertheless suit the Doctor's purposes when used), a wide-brimmed hat and, most famously, his impractically long, multi-coloured scarf, which was apparently knitted for him by Madame Nostradamus (whom he refers to as a \"witty little knitter\"). When it is damaged in \"The Ark in Space\" (1975), the Doctor declares with regret that it is \"irreplaceable.\"\n\nAccording to Baker, the Doctor's scarf was the idea of costume designer James Acheson. Acheson, knowing little about knitting, procured large quantities of various colours of wool, and commissioned Begonia Pope, a friend of his, to create a colourful design. She proceeded to use all of the wool provided, resulting in the absurdly long, but iconic, accessory.\n\nProducer Philip Hinchcliffe had wardrobe create three distinct coats for Baker to wear depending on the type of story, the first being the reddish-brown blazer that he wore throughout all of his first season; the other two (full-length) coats were dark brown (for the darker horror stories) and light grey (for more action-packed stories). The Wardrobe Department also provided a brown wide-brimmed felt fedora. The rest was often picked from his own clothes (like neckties, trousers and a waistcoat). A wider, brighter-coloured scarf debuted with Baker's fourth season and a light brown coat was introduced late in his fifth season. Baker also appeared in a one-off Sherlock Holmes-inspired costume in \"The Talons of Weng-Chiang\".\n\nAccording to both the creators of the show and Baker, the character's look was originally based on paintings and posters by Henri de Toulouse-Lautrec of his friend, Aristide Bruant, a singer and nightclub owner whose trademark was a black cloak and long red scarf.\nWhen John Nathan-Turner became the show's producer in Baker's last year, the Fourth Doctor was the first to sport an item of clothing adorned with question marks as a motif, in this case, above the points on his shirt collars. His overall costume was redesigned, changing the colour focus from brown to red. Designer June Hudson later revealed in an interview that Nathan-Turner had even given her permission to remove the scarf altogether if she wanted to. Hudson opted to keep the scarf, as it was such an iconic part of the character.\n\nThe early stories of the Fourth Doctor were characterised by a strong \"Gothic Horror\" theme. The duo of writer/script editor Robert Holmes and producer Philip Hinchcliffe consciously tapped into horror icons like mummies (\"Pyramids of Mars\") and Frankenstein (\"The Brain of Morbius\", \"Robot\"), Jekyll and Hyde (\"Planet of Evil\"), and even transformation (\"The Ark in Space, The Seeds of Doom\") and various themes like alien abduction. In these stories, they were given a science fiction explanation, rather than the typical magic.\n\nThe Hinchcliffe Era (1974–1977) is one of the most controversial in the classic series run, the increasing horror elements and depictions of violence attracted much criticism from Mary Whitehouse, who had previously attacked the Barry Letts era for serials like \"Terror of the Autons\" (1971). The controversy led BBC Director General to apologise to Whitehouse for the ending of one episode of \"The Seeds of Doom\" (1976). Hinchcliffe was moved on to police drama \"Target\" in 1977 at the conclusion of his third year. Graham Williams – who had been developing \"Target\" – was brought on to take over as producer for Baker's fourth season.\n\nWilliams was given specific instructions to lighten the tone of the stories, thus playing to Baker's strengths. However, the first three stories (which were geared towards the previous style) had already been commissioned. Robert Holmes had agreed to stay on to edit them, but he ended up leaving after only doing the first two, \"Horror of Fang Rock\" (1977) and \"The Invisible Enemy\" (1977). The task of editing \"Image of the Fendahl\" (1977) fell to his successor Anthony Read. The season was only narrowly finished. With the cast and crew suffering from burnout and lack of resources, the season finale \"The Invasion of Time\" (1978) was completed largely by virtue of it having been written to make use of preexisting sets, props, and costumes.\n\nFor their second season, Williams and Read had planned out an overarching storyline that would run through the whole of the season. With more editorial control, it was also decided that the writers would put more emphasis on elements of fantasy and humour. Holmes wrote the first story, \"The Ribos Operation\" (1978), and the writing team of Bob Baker and Dave Martin handled what would be the final story of the season, \"The Armageddon Factor\" (1979). Douglas Adams wrote the second story, \"The Pirate Planet\" (1978), while another newcomer, David Fisher, wrote the third and fourth stories. Again, difficulties began to arise when the fifth story fell through. Robert Holmes consented to writing what would become \"The Power of Kroll\" (1978–79).\n\nWilliams' third and final year on the show is considered a high point in terms of ratings and stories for the entire series. However it proved even more difficult for Williams behind the scenes, as he found Tom Baker increasingly hard to cope with. The most watched episode ever of \"Doctor Who\" was \"Part 4\" of \"City of Death\" (by Fisher, Adams, and Williams) which drew 16.1 million viewers. Douglas Adams became script editor and his style can be seen in the dialogue and stories. For example, in \"Destiny of the Daleks\" (1979), Adams included a scene of the Doctor trapped under a boulder that resembles a similar scene in the second series of \"The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy\". His time as script editor was beset by problems; Adams often ended up having to greatly edit and even rewrite stories. Once again, facing burnout and lack of funds, Adams eventually agreed to write the final story \"Shada\". Production proved difficult and ended up being unfinished due to a strike at the BBC. Williams left the show, dissatisfied with having left on what he considered to be a low note.\n\nIn Season 18, John Nathan-Turner became the series' producer. He instituted a number of changes to the show, including toning down the humour and introducing more science fiction concepts. During this season the Fourth Doctor became very much subdued and, on occasion, melancholy. Baker began the season in poor health, though he eventually recovered. Both the actor and the character seemed noticeably older and tired, due to Baker's gaunt appearance and greying hair. Baker had been finding the role harder and harder to maintain and the previous season had been particularly draining on him. Many of this season's stories also had an elegiac tone, with entropy and decay being a recurring theme.\n\nNew script editor Christopher Bidmead found himself faced with a serious problem from the outset of his time on the show. He ultimately deemed many of the stories left to him by Adams to be unusable, being too close to the humour-driven stories of the previous season. The only one he ended up using was \"The Leisure Hive\" (1980), though only after heavily editing it. Bidmead asked a pair of writing friends to come up with what would be the second story of the season, \"Meglos\" (1980), which ended up being regarded as one of the weakest shows in the series' history up to that point.\n\nBidmead only began to gain some momentum by the fifth story, \"Warriors' Gate\". The story is notable for the Doctor's sombre mood and seeming death wish, as well as the surprisingly adult nature of the story. The surreal, even dream-like elements, such as time shifts and walking through mirrors, also earned the story some distinction. At John Nathan-Turner's insistence the Master was brought back. This was accomplished by Bidmead changing the villain in \"The Keeper of Traken\" (1981) into the Master.\n\nThe overarching theme of decay reaches its conclusion in Baker's final story \"Logopolis\" (1981), which Bidmead personally wrote. The story is particularly sombre, even grim at times. Themes of decay and death are constant in the story, personified in the ghostly Watcher, effectively a harbinger of the Fourth Doctor's 'death'.\n\nThe Fourth Doctor's stories saw fewer recurring (or returning) enemies than in previous eras. The Daleks only appeared twice and the Cybermen only had one story, \"Revenge of the Cybermen\" (1975). UNIT, which had featured in most of the Third Doctor's adventures, only appeared in four early Fourth Doctor stories, playing a minor role in its last appearance, season 13's \"The Seeds of Doom\" (1976) in which none of the regular UNIT staff appeared.\n\nAt the same time, stories such as \"The Deadly Assassin\" (1976) established most of the mythology surrounding the Time Lords and the Doctor's home planet Gallifrey and that would remain a key feature for the rest of the classic series and still be felt in the revived series. For example, it is established that Time Lords only have a limited number of regenerations, which is a driving plot point in the stories \"Mawdryn Undead\", \"The Five Doctors\", \"The Trial of a Time Lord\", the 1996 television movie and the 2013 Christmas special \"The Time of the Doctor\".\n\nVisions of the Fourth Doctor appear in \"Earthshock\", \"Mawdryn Undead\", \"Resurrection of the Daleks\", \"The Next Doctor\", \"The Eleventh Hour\", \"The Lodger\" and \"Nightmare in Silver\", and his voice is used in \"The Almost People\". The Fourth Doctor also appears in Sarah Jane's flashback in \"The Mad Woman in the Attic\", via footage taken from \"The Hand of Fear\". Similar flashbacks appear in \"The Sarah Jane Adventures\" story \"Death of the Doctor\". In \"The Name of the Doctor,\" he is seen briefly by Clara Oswald wandering around the TARDIS (clip taken from \"The Invasion of Time\"). He was also seen as an echo running past Clara inside the Eleventh Doctor's time stream in the end of \"The Name of the Doctor.\" Archival images were used for his appearance in \"The Day of the Doctor\". He was also briefly seen during Missy's exposition of the Twelfth Doctor's fighting android assassins (\"The Witch's Familiar\").\n\nFor audiences in the United States, who saw the show only in syndication (mostly on PBS), Tom Baker was the incarnation of the Doctor who is the best known, since his episodes were the ones most frequently broadcast stateside. The first four seasons of these Time Life distributed stories added narration by Howard da Silva at the beginning and end of each episode. Also in Italy, where most of the classic series of \"Doctor Who\" were never broadcast on television, the only episodes to be broadcast were those of the Fourth Doctor.\n\nThe Fourth Doctor's distinctive appearance and manner have made him a target for affectionate parody. The character has appeared several times on \"The Simpsons\" and twice on \"Robot Chicken\". He also had a cameo on \"Futurama\" emerging from the stomach of a space whale, and another episode, where he is briefly seen running into the TARDIS. In the computer game \"Hugo II, Whodunit?\", the player can save the Fourth Doctor from a Dalek in return for his sonic screwdriver. He is frequently impersonated by impressionist Jon Culshaw on the radio and television series \"Dead Ringers\", who also voiced the Doctor for the Big Finish audio \"The Kingmaker\". Archival footage of the Fourth Doctor's first title sequence was used in the \"Family Guy\" episode \"Blue Harvest\" to parody \"Star Wars\" hyperspace. In \"American Dad!\" some Whovians were shown, with several of them dressed as the Fourth Doctor. As the narrator of \"Little Britain\", Tom Baker has himself alluded to \"Doctor Who\". In the 24th episode of the series \"Epic Rap Battles of History\" the Tenth Doctor is in a rap battle with Doc Brown from \"Back to the Future\" when he is shot by a Dalek and regenerates into the Fourth Doctor (played by George Watsky).\n\nA background character appearing in one episode of Toast of London resembles the fourth incarnation of the Doctor. Peter Davison, who played the fifth incarnation, also appears in the series as himself.\n\nIn 1979 and 1980, Tom Baker played the Fourth Doctor (alongside Lalla Ward's Romana) in a series of four television commercials for Prime Computers. Disliking the scripts he was given, Baker agreed to film the advertisements only if he could rewrite them himself, and added a scene where the Doctor follows the computer's instruction to marry Romana. In 1997, Baker reprised the role once again in a spot for New Zealand's National Superannuation insurance company.\n\n\n\nTom Baker also recorded narration, in character as the Fourth Doctor, for a 1976 audio release of \"Genesis of the Daleks\", which was subsequently re-issued by the BBC on cassette and CD as a radio drama. Baker returned again to \"Doctor Who\" for the 1990s audio cassette releases of \"lost\" Doctor Who stories. For some of these stories, he is in character as the Doctor. For others, he merely provides descriptive narration.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2062759", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2062759", "title": "Affine vector field", "text": "Affine vector field\n\nAn affine vector field (sometimes affine collineation or affine) is a projective vector field preserving geodesics and preserving the affine parameter. Mathematically, this is expressed by the following condition:\n\n"}
{"id": "2062766", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2062766", "title": "Pikes Peak International Raceway", "text": "Pikes Peak International Raceway\n\nPikes Peak International Raceway (PPIR) is a racetrack in the Colorado Springs area within the city limits of Fountain, Colorado, that by October 12, 1997, was \"the fastest 1-mile paved oval anywhere\". The speedway hosted races in several series including the Indy Racing League and 2 NASCAR series (Busch and Truck) until operations were suspended 2005–08. A wide variety of amateur racing groups use PPIR for racing and training, and many NASCAR teams use PPIR for testing.\n\nRacing in the Pikes Peak Region included 19th century horse tracks (e.g., to the west of Colorado Springs' Palmer House along Fountain Creek by 1882 and to the north by 1903, the \"Roswell Racing Park\"), and the annual Pikes Peak International Hill Climb started in 1916 on the 1915 Pikes Peak Highway. In 1938, a track was north of the Alexander Aircraft factory and another was to the factory's southeast at the south end of the Nichols Field taxiway. On the Pike's Peak Ocean-to-Occan Highway west of the city was the end of the 1951 Colorado sports car rally (terminus at the Crystola Inn), a 1953 dirt dragstrip \"some four miles east of Colorado Springs\" was used for \"the first statewide drag race\", and a stock car track was along Powers Road in the early 1960s. The \"last local track\" for auto racing east of the city through the late 1970s was the Colorado Springs International Speedway which \"had crowds in the 3,000-4,000 range on summer weekends\". The Platte Avenue go-kart track closed , the greyhound track closed and is now an off track betting facility, and the Olympic velodrome in Memorial Park is a remaining racing venue within the city.\n\nPikes Peak Meadows was a dirt horse racing track facility opened in 1964 south of Colorado Springs and north of Pueblo, Colorado, with a large, blue, covered grandstand on the west. After its horse racing ended in 1993, C. C. Myers \"announced plans in May 1996 to build a major auto racing facility\" at Pikes Peak Meadows.\n\nIn 1997, \"Apollo Real Estate Advisors LP formed a joint venture January 30 with Raceway Associates, a partnership headed by California contractor and developer C.C. Myers Inc, to own and run the 1,300-acre\" speedway complex. The asphalt track was constructed below the \"normal ground level\", C.C. Myers planned \"to get a big-time NASCAR race in 1998\", and the facility had an open house for the local community on May 31, 1997. The first race's attendance (June 8) was 16,810, the Richard Petty Driving Experience used PPIR July 2–17, the first IRL Series race on June 28 was televised, and a Winston West 500K race was held in July 1997.\n\nEarlier in 1996, a competing track near Denver in Adams County, Colorado was attempted by Penske Motorsports, Inc. which merged in 1999 with the International Speedway Corporation. In 2002 ISC gained \"the right of first refusal should PPIR owners decide to sell their 1,200-acre complex\" and in October 2005 for $11 million, \"bought out the owners of Pikes Peak International Raceway\" (racing operations were suspended and the scoreboard was moved to Texas Motor Speedway.) In 2006, meetings \"between attorneys representing [Commerce City, near Denver] and International Speedway Corporation\" were conducted before ISC \"announced in February [1997] that it was eyeing land in Commerce City as well as eastern Aurora for the track. It envision[ed] a $360 million to $400 million track and stadium that could hold 75,000 to 80,000 fans.\" A new opposition group, Commerce City Citizens and Business Alliance, endorsed anti-raceway candidates which won local elections, and in May 1997 \"ISC executive Wesley Harris said the 1,300-acre parcel the company was considering near Denver International Airport was not compatible with its needs\". ISC sold PPIR in November 2006 (the purchase closed in the first quarter of 2007), and PPIR operations resumed in 2008.\n\nOn December 6, 2012, USAC announced that PPIR would be on the 2013 USAC Traxxas Silver Crown Series schedule. Pikes Peak International Raceway would host the richest event in SRL Southwest Tour history as announced on April 23, 2013. PPIR also hosts regional club road course races such as the National Auto Sport Association (NASA) and SCCA as well as local enthusiast events such as track days, drifting events, and car shows.\n\nPPIR currently hosts the largest autocross racing series in the Rocky Mountain Region, PPIR Time Attack. The series consists of 8-10 races per year on varying courses on the infield of the track. Courses run from 40 seconds to 1min 5 secs with competitors taking five runs to best their times. The series is based off of weight to power and drivetrain classes, including front wheel drive, rear wheel drive, all-wheel drive and a XX class for non-conforming cars or non-street-legal cars.\n"}
{"id": "2062778", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2062778", "title": "Azam Jah", "text": "Azam Jah\n\nAzam Jah, Damat Walashan Sahebzada Nawab Sir Mir Himayat Ali Khan Siddiqi Bahadur Bayaffendi () (21/22 February 1907 – 9 October 1970) was the eldest son of the seventh and last Nizam of Hyderabad, Mir Osman Ali Khan Siddiqi Asif Jah VII and Sahebzadi Azam unisa Begum, daughter of Sahebzada Mir Jhangir Ali Khan Siddiqi. In 1936 he was given the courtesy title of Prince of Berar, a territory of the Nizam then leased in perpetuity to the British and administered by them.\n\nAzam Jah married Princess Durru Shehvar, a member of the House of Osman (formerly of the Ottoman Empire) and the daughter of the last Ottoman Caliph Abdülmecid II, in Nice on 12 November 1932. The marriage failed after producing two sons.\n\nOn the death of the VII Nizam, the title passed to Azam Jah's elder son, Sahebzada Mir Barkat Ali Khan Siddiqi Mukarram Jah, as eighth Nizam. Azam's younger son is Sahebzada Mir Karamat Ali Khan Siddiqi Muffakham Jah.\n\nHe lived at Bella Vista, Hyderabad, a palace near Hussain Sagar.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2062784", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2062784", "title": "Dead Brain Cells", "text": "Dead Brain Cells\n\nDead Brain Cells are a Canadian thrash metal band from the late 1980s. Called DBC for short, the band started in 1985 in Montreal as a small project named Final Chapter by guitar players Eddie Shahini and Gerry Ouellette, who put an ad in a magazine looking for a drummer. In 1986, former Vomit and the Zits singer Dave Javex Ray-O-Vac (David Leone) and former Unruled and Vomit and the Zits drummer Jeff Saint-Louis, joined with Shahini and Ouellette and guitar player Phil Dakin, who switched to bass. The project grew into a serious band which took the name Dead Brain Cells among three suggestions by Leone, the others being \"The Mental Pukes\" and \"The Retarded Assholes\".\nLowe had made commitments to his job and could not sing with the band anymore. Dakin decided he would sing and play bass at the same time. The band released two albums and toured twice in the United States. Their first album, \"Dead Brain Cells\", was released in 1987. It was followed by a concept album, \"Universe\", in 1989.\n\nTheir song, \"The Genesis Explosion\", was featured in a Canadian television commercial for Microcell Telecommunications in 2005. The commercial depicts an older woman using her cell phone to win a radio call-in show.\n\nThe band's guitarist, Gerry Ouellette, died on November 12, 1994.\n\nShahini started a new band in 2009 called Kill of Rights, it includes music written from 1986 to 2013. They released their first album \"Sign of the Crimes\" on February 15, 2014.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2062791", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2062791", "title": "Hits! The Very Best of Erasure", "text": "Hits! The Very Best of Erasure\n\nHits! – The Very Best of Erasure was the second greatest hits package released by the group. Capitalizing on a resurgence of Erasure music after their successful covers album \"Other People's Songs\", Mute Records released \"Hits!\" in 2003 to reintroduce people to Erasure's music and to give an update to their 1992 singles compilation \"Pop! - the First 20 Hits\". In fact, \"Hits!\" seemed to be geared towards casual fans who did not already own a copy of \"Pop!\", as twelve songs appear on both collections.\n\nSince the release of \"Pop!\", Erasure had released fifteen more singles, but only six of them appeared on \"Hits!\". In addition, two additional songs from the \"Abba-esque\" EP were added to the line-up, as well as a new remix of the classic \"Oh L'amour,\" originally found on their 1986 debut album \"Wonderland\".\n\nTo entice Erasure completists to purchase the \"Hits!\" set, limited copies of the album contained a bonus CD containing an \"Erasure Megamix,\" consisting of eighteen of their classic songs (including \"You Surround Me\", the only song not on the main album) strung together in a DJ-mixed form. A few are the basic single mixes, but most of them consist of well known dance remixes done at the time of their respective releases; in particular, additional vocals from remixes of \"Love to Hate You\" and \"Sometimes\" were included.\n\n\"Hits!\" was repackaged and reissued in the UK on 29 October 2007. This new version includes the same two discs as the original release, along with a DVD containing 35 Erasure music videos. These are the same videos which were released on the \"Hits! the Videos\" in 2003. According to the Erasure Official Newsletter, Hits reached the platinum certification for 300.000 copies sold in September 2013.\n\n\nRemixed and reconstructed by: Mark Towns, Chicago 2003\n\n\"Hits! – The Very Best of Erasure\" peaked at #15 in the UK. It did not chart on the \"Billboard\" 200.\n\n\"Oh L'amour (August mix)\" was released as a single in the UK and the US. It hit No. 13 on the UK singles chart.\n\nErasure – 10 Great Songs was a budget compilation released on 2 November 2009, shortly after the \"Total Pop! The First 40 Hits\" range of releases. According to the official Erasure website, the album was \"part of a series of budget titles put together by EMI specifically for sale through 'non-traditional outlets'\". It re-used the cover artwork from the \"Hits! – The Very Best of Erasure\" compilation, bordered by a generic sleeve design used on the packaging for other artists also featured in the series.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2062793", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2062793", "title": "Mauna Loa Observatory", "text": "Mauna Loa Observatory\n\nThe Mauna Loa Observatory (MLO) is an atmospheric baseline station on Mauna Loa, on the island of Hawaii, located in the U.S. state of Hawaii.\n\nSince 1958, initially under the direction of Charles Keeling, followed by his son Ralph and later Elmer Robinson, Mauna Loa Observatory (MLO) has been monitoring and collecting data relating to atmospheric change, and is known especially for the continuous monitoring of atmospheric carbon dioxide (CO), which is sometimes referred to as the Keeling Curve. The observatory is under the Earth System Research Laboratory which is part of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA). According to the NOAA, Mauna Loa is the world's oldest continuous CO monitoring station, and the world's primary benchmark site for measurement of the gas. \n\nThe latest observation of CO concentrations from MLO can be found at web sites along with data from other sites and trends at Mauna Loa. The MLO levels can be compared with other sites in the global monitoring network.\n\nMLO has activities at five locations on the Big Island. The primary observing site is located at the 3397 m (11,141 ft) level on Mauna Loa's north slope () about 5 km north of the summit Mokuaweoweo. The Mauna Loa Solar Observatory shares this site. The administration and some data processing are done in the Hilo, Hawaii office. Kulani Mauka is a rain collection site. Cape Kumukahi is a flask sample site located on the easternmost point of Hawaii. At the Hilo airport, weekly balloon-borne instruments are prepared and launched to measure ozone from the surface to usually over 30 km.\nThe observatory site is also a temporary home to a cosmic microwave background observatory called AMiBA.\n\nMauna Loa was originally chosen as a monitoring site because, located far from any continent, the air was sampled and is a good average for the central Pacific. Being high, it is above the inversion layer where most of the local effects are present and there was already a rough road to the summit built by the military. The contamination from local volcanic sources is sometimes detected at the observatory, and is then removed from the background data.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2062794", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2062794", "title": "Danny Finkleman", "text": "Danny Finkleman\n\nDanny Finkleman (born 1942) is a Canadian journalist and radio host, best known for his work on CBC Radio. He was host of \"Finkleman's 45s\" from 1985 until 2005, when he retired from CBC. From October 12, 2013, to July 1, 2014 he hosted a weekly podcast.\n\nFinkleman began working at CBC in 1967 after completing a degree in law at the University of Manitoba. He hosted a show called \"Danny Finkleman's Saturday Morning Show\" from 1972 to 1979. He also worked for \"This Country in the Morning\", preparing three seven-minute segments a week.\n\nHe was probably best known for \"Finkleman's 45s\". The show played music from the 1950s, 60s, and early 70s and was noted for Danny's rants about the modern world, including topics such as modern music and computers. Finkleman was generally opposed to both. In general the show was quite informal. The show's playlist was noted for its fairly wide selection of music from the period. Danny often played less famous songs than commercial \"oldies\" shows were able to. Favourite groups included the Shirelles, the Diamonds, Patti Labelle, the Four Preps, the Box Tops, Gladys Knight and the Pips, Georgie Fame and the True Blues, The Crew-Cuts, Paul Anka, Otis Redding and Dusty Springfield. Finkleman disliked the Rolling Stones and partly blamed them, among many others, for the decline of music in the 1970s. According to Finkleman, the show's title was loosely based on the name of \"Gilmour's Albums\", a popular variety show on CBC at the time Finkleman's show was conceived.\n\nOne of Finkleman's central ideas was that the politicization of music in the mid-1970s ruined music, making it \"mean spirited\", \"pretentious\" and \"ugly\". Among other bands that took a turn for the worse, according to Finkleman, were the Beatles. He thinks that the Beatles lost their touch after \"Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band\", and the Beach Boys after \"Good Vibrations\". Another feature of Danny's character on the show was his opposition to e-mail. He never accepted e-mail for the show because he said it was too distracting and was too much work.\n\nSince 1993 Finkleman had worked only part-time at the CBC; he was also a stockbroker at Canaccord Capital in Toronto. His brother, Ken Finkleman, is also a well-known Canadian media personality.\n"}
{"id": "2062804", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2062804", "title": "Castledawson", "text": "Castledawson\n\nCastledawson is a village in County Londonderry, Northern Ireland. It is mostly within the townland of Shanemullagh (), about four miles from the north-western shore of Lough Neagh, and near the market town of Magherafelt. At the 2011 Census it had a population of 3,293.\nThe village sits on the River Moyola and was originally called \"Dawson's Bridge\". The bridge that crossed the river here was once the largest single span stone bridge in Ireland. The village was named after its 'castle' (actually a large manor house) built by Joshua Dawson in 1713. He was Chief Secretary for Ireland and founded the village in 1710. The Dawson estate, Shanemullagh, shares its name with the original townland name. The Dawson family also founded Christ Church, on the edge of that estate, in the early 18th century.\n\nOn 12 July 1830, Orange Institution parades led to confrontations between Orangemen and Ribbonmen in Maghera and Castledawson. Several Catholic homes were then burnt by Protestants following these clashes.\n\nOn 29 June 1912, a large group of Ancient Order of Hibernians members, allegedly drunk after having held a parade, clashed with a party of Presbyterian Sunday School children in Castledawson, who were returning from their annual excursion, in what became known as the Castledawson Incident. The prominent Presbyterian reverend James Armour laid the blame for the incident on alcohol and \"the mad Orangemen of the locality,\" whom he believed may have set up the incident. The response to this incident saw rioting in Belfast that resulted in roughly 2,000 Catholic shipyard workers and 500 Protestant Home Rulers being violently driven from their jobs at the Workman and Clarke shipyard.\n\nIn March 1922, during the Irish War of Independence, the Irish Republican Army shot dead an off-duty Special Constable while carrying out a bomb attack on the Moyola Bridge at Castledawson.\n\nCastledawson was the hub of the mid Ulster shirt-making industry, with its location midway between Belfast and Derry being crucial. In 1943, Nestlé built and opened a factory that made sweetened condensed milk. However, it was closed in the 1970s. Today it is the home of the award-winning Ditty's Bakery and Moyola Precision Engineering, a noted innovator of aerospace components.\n\nThe River Moyola, which dissects the village, is popular with anglers and has managed stocks of salmon (but also has perch, eel, trout and bream). Dominating the horizon to the south-west of the village is a dramatic ráth.\n\nFamous natives have included:\n\nCastledawson railway station opened on 10 November 1856, closed for passenger traffic on 28 August 1950, and finally closed altogether on 1 October 1959.\n\nThe main A6 Belfast to Derry road passed through Castledawson from 1971, when the nearby Castledawson roundabout was built, in anticipation of the completion of the M22, which was never forthcoming, until 1992, when it was finally bypassed by a single-carriageway A6 upgrade.\nThis section is currently being dualled, marking the end of a 47-year wait for the high-quality bypass it was promised, all those decades ago.\n\n\nCastledawson is home to the association football club Moyola Park, the Gaelic Athletic Association club St Malachys G.A.C. Castledawson and the eighteen hole Moyola golf club.\n\nAccording to the 2011 Census, Castledawson has 3,329 residents. 53.44% of the Castledawson ward were Catholic, while 43.47% were Protestant.\n\nIn terms of National Identity, 8 choices were provided and the breakdown is as follows\n"}
{"id": "2062814", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2062814", "title": "Andrew Wong (politician)", "text": "Andrew Wong (politician)\n\nAndrew Wong Wang Fat , (; born 11 December 1943) was the last president of the Legislative Council during British rule. He was the only person of Chinese ethnicity to have served in the position during British rule, supported by the pan-democracy camp.\n\nAndrew Wong was born in Shanghai, Republic of China. He attended Wah Yan College, an all-male Jesuit secondary school in Hong Kong, after which studied at the University of Hong Kong, Syracuse University in the United States and completed an MPhil at the London School of Economics and Political Science (LSE) in the United Kingdom. Wong is often referred to by the nickname \"Uncle Fat\" ().\n\nFirst elected into the Legislative Council of Hong Kong in 1985, Wong was elected by his fellow members of the Council to the position of its president in 1995. He held the position until 30 June 1997, when the sovereignty of Hong Kong was transferred from the United Kingdom to the People's Republic of China.\n\nHe served in the Provisional Legislative Council from 1997 to 1998, and was re-elected to the Legislative Council in 1998, and in 2000, after the transfer of sovereignty. He lost his seat at the 2004 Legislative Council elections.\n\nWong served in the Sha Tin District Board from 1981 to 1991. He was also a lecturer in the Department of Government and Public Administration of the Chinese University of Hong Kong.\n\n"}
{"id": "2062818", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2062818", "title": "Show of Hands Live", "text": "Show of Hands Live\n\nLive (also known as Live '92 and Show of Hands Live) is the first live album by English acoustic roots duo Show of Hands. After the duo had recorded three studio albums on cassette from 1987–1991, the last of these being \"Out for the Count\", the duo set on recording a live album for their first Compact Disc release. They enlisted Mark Trim to engineer and produce a live album of the duo's performance at The Bull Hotel, Bridport, in the duo's native Devon. The album features all sixteen songs from the performance which featured numerous guest musicians, including the band's long-time collaborator Matt Clifford and Beer's sporadic collaborator Paul Downes.\n\nThe album was released in 1992 by independent record label The Road Goes on Forever, before falling out of print and being re-released in 1999 by the duo's own record label Hands on Music. It received very favourable reviews from critics, and broke the band into the festival circuit in 1993. The duo also hired Trim to produce their subsequent studio album \"Beat about the Bush\" (1994) due to his engineering work on the album. Today, \"Show of Hands Live\" is often seen as the duo's first albums, with their three cassette albums being dropped from the duo's \"canon\". A 2007 poll on the duo's internet forum established \"The Blind Fliddler\" as fans' favourite track from the album, and it was subsequently included on the duo's best of album \"\" (2007) as a result.\n\nIn 1987, Devonian folk musicians Steve Knightley and Phil Beer formed the duo Show of Hands. The musicians had been friends for a long time and had worked together before. Their first recorded collaboration featured on Beer's first live album with Paul Downes, 1980's \"Live in Concept\". Show of Hands formed whilst Beer was a member of The Albion Band. The duo's first album, \"Show of Hands\", was released on cassette in 1987, followed by \"Tall Ships\" in 1990. The two albums were sold only at the duo's live performances. Later on in 1990, Beer left The Albion Band, letting Show of Hands become a full musical partnership, recording the third and final cassette album, \"Out for the Count\" in The Old Court in 1991. Although the duo continued to perform live throughout 1992, that same year they formed the band Alianza with Dave Townsend with three exiled Chilean musicians, exploring a fusion between English folk music and Chilean music.\n\nMeanwhile, the duo had yet to record a Compact Disc (CD) release of their own, but opted to release a live album as their first CD release instead of a studio album due to their reputation as a live act. They decided to record one of their live performances, and enlisted record producer and engineer Mark Trim to a produce a live album of the duo's local performance at The Bull Hotel in Bridport, Dorset on 8 June 1992. The hotel has won many awards and is described as \"Dorset's Boutique Hotel\". An 1877 plaque on the hotel describes it as the \"Knight's Bull Hotel\". The duo, who had never previously signed to a record label, signed to independent record label The Road Goes on Forever for the live album's release.\n\nThe performance took place on 8 June 1992 at The Bull Hotel in Bridport, a town in Dorset, just 40 miles from the Duo's native Exeter, Devon. In addition to singing the lead vocals, Steve Knightley played the acoustic guitar and cello-mandolin, whilst Phil Beer performed backing vocals, cuatro, fiddle, acoustic guitar and mandolin. Numerous guest musicians played during the performance; Beer's sporadic collaborator Paul Downes played guitar, Mike Silver played guitar and performed backing vocals, Polly Bolton performed vocals whilst the duo's long-time collaborator Mike Clifford performed backing vocals and played the keyboard.\n\nTen of the songs were written by Knightley alone, whilst one song, \"Caught in the Rain\", was co-written with Clifford. The remaining five tracks were traditional folk songs. The performance began with two traditional performances, \"Silver Dagger\" and \"The Blind Fiddler\". Many of the album's songs had not previously been recorded by the duo, and several have not been recorded since. Some of the songs were also recorded with Alianza at the same time, including Knightley standard \"Santiago\". The album's fifth song, \"Exile\", had already established itself as one of the duo's concert standards, originally being recorded for their 1987 debut album before being re-recorded for \"Lie of the Land\" (1995). \"Santiago\" was one of the songs previously not released by the duo, and it has gone on to become a concert standard. \"Six O'Clock Waltz\" was recorded for their second album \"Tall Ships\" (1990) which was already out of print by the time of the release of \"Show of Hands Live\". The original version of the song has never been re-released, and as such as never been released on CD.\n\nFollowing the concert, the duo spent the rest of June and all of July recording their only album with Alianza, who split up a year after the release of their sole, eponymous album. Meanwhile, later on in 1992, the live album was released by The Road Goes on Forever at a similar time to the Alianza album, which was released on the same record label. The two albums marked the duo's only albums released on the label. The album cover, which featured the names of the duo, was their last album to do so. Meanwhile, the album cover arises confusion as to the album title. It has been referred to as both \"Show of Hands Live\" or simply \"Live\", due to the cover featuring \"Show of Hands\" in a standard typeface whilst \"Live\" was italicised. Further confusing is that the duo refer to the album by neither name but as \"Live '92\", which is the name given in the liner notes for their best-of album \"\" (2007). The album was soon out of print, but was re-released in 1999 by the duo's own record label Hands on Music, which was established in 1995.\n\nThe album was released to a positive reception, with the duo's website describing the reviews as \"excellent\". The reviews helped the duo break into the festival circuit in 1993 and later in the year they toured with Ralph McTell on his autumn tour. Mike Trim's recording engineer work on the album was described as \"successful\" by the duo and it inspired them to hire Trim to produce their subsequent studio album \"Beat about the Bush\" (1994), which was their first CD studio album. In 1996, the duo released their second live album \"Live at the Royal Albert Hall\". Reviewing that album for \"Living Tradition\", Graham Gurrin praised how it only had three of its sixteen tracks in common with \"Show of Hands Live\". The performance of \"The Blind Fiddler\" from \"Show of Hands Live\" was included on the duo's best of album \"Roots: The Best of Show of Hands\" (2007). It features on the second disc, subtitled \"Longdogs\", whose songs were chosen by the users of the duo's former internet forum Longdogs being asked to vote for their favourite song from each of the duo's albums, with the winners of each poll forming the disc's track listing. \"Yankee Clipper\", meanwhile, had featured on the various artist compilation album \"A Feast of Folk\" (2001), containing \"16 Evergreen Favourites\".\n\nAll songs written by Steve Knightley, except where noted.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2062825", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2062825", "title": "Mir Taher Ali Khan", "text": "Mir Taher Ali Khan\n\nSahebzada Nawab Mir Taher Ali Khan (1904 – 1981), also known by his pen name \"Muslim\", was a distinguished linguistic scholar and professor in European languages from the city of Hyderabad in India. A member of the Hyderabad nobility he was also the personal secretary to the eldest son of the last Nizam of Hyderabad (Prince Azam Jah).He was proficient in English, French, German, Russian, Spanish, Italian, Arabic and Persian apart from Urdu which was his mother tongue. In fact, he got a doctorate in Philology. Any body who studied any of these languages in the sixties and seventies should have come into contact with this polyglotte. He was a connaisseur of ghazals and would regularly attend the mushairas conducted in the old city of Hyderabad.\n"}
{"id": "2062831", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2062831", "title": "Eternal (Samael album)", "text": "Eternal (Samael album)\n\nEternal is the fifth album by the Swiss heavy metal band Samael, released on 19 July 1999 via Century Media.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2062841", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2062841", "title": "Virginia Academy of Science", "text": "Virginia Academy of Science\n\nThe Virginia Academy of Science is a non-profit organization established to promote science and scientific research in the Commonwealth of Virginia. The Academy was first established in 1920 in Richmond, Virginia by a group of nine biologists.\n\nThe VIRGINIA ACADEMY OF SCIENCE is affiliated with\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2062842", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2062842", "title": "Paddy Ryan", "text": "Paddy Ryan\n\nPatrick \"Paddy\" Ryan (15 March 1851 – 14 December 1900) was an Irish American boxer, and became the bare-knuckle American heavyweight champion on May 30, 1880, after he won the title from Joe Goss. He retained the title until losing it to the exceptional John L. Sullivan on February 7, 1882.\n\nRyan fought only ten major bouts, but as many as twenty-five exhibitions including many Sullivan in his late career. Exhibitions brought him income, but with fewer rounds and less risk.\n\nPaddy Ryan was born in Thurles, Tipperary, Ireland on March 14, 1851. After moving to America, he lived in the Troy, New York area and was consequently nicknamed the \"Trojan Giant\". He may have apprenticed as a blacksmith in an early career, but was definitely working in the profession by the time he lived in Troy. As a stout youth, Ryan worked on the construction of the Erie Canal before pursuing his boxing career. After opening a Troy saloon in 1874, he caught the attention of the athletic director of Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, Jim Killoran. Killoran saw Ryan dealing with troublemakers and drunks at the saloon and decided to train him as a prizefighter.\n\nRyan's first match was in 1877. He was as much an all-around fighter, grappler or wrestler as he was a boxer. Under the London Prize Ring rules of that era, several of his wrestling moves could be used in the ring. Some boxing historians believe he was a better wrestler than boxer, and would have benefited from more specialized boxing training.\n\nFormer heavyweight champion Jem Mace had been inactive for many years, and was believed to have vacated the title, making it open for contention. According to several sources, the fight with Goss was Ryan's first real prize fight, though he had done combat before to decide disputes, sometimes with established boxers. On their arrival to the working capital of Pennsylvania, the Mayor of Pittsburgh made it clear to both parties that the illegal fight would not take place in his city, so the combatants moved to a more remote spot in West Virginia.\n\nIn the most significant win of his career, Ryan defeated bare-knuckle heavyweight championship Joe Goss on May 30, 1880 in Collier's Station, West Virginia. In the 87th round, Goss was unable to continue and the contest was stopped after 90 minutes. Ryan's final blow was a right that knocked out Goss. Up until that time the fight was tight and well contested. Goss's seconds claimed a foul in the 87th, and with him being unable to continue, the judges awarded the bout to Ryan. His opponent appeared winded, but Ryan was terribly battered around the face and body. Ryan was nearly twenty pounds heavier and nearly six inches taller than Goss, a discrepancy which would have never been allowed in today's boxing, and may have made the difference in the match.\n\nIn 1881, Ryan fought eight exhibition bouts primarily in the New York area, in which he fought Goss again on May 18, and then fought John Dwyer on July 2. He later faced Captain James Dalton on October 1, a well-known regional opponent.\n\nJohn L. Sullivan and Ryan arrived in New Orleans on February 6, 1882 to determine who would hold the American heavyweight championship. Louisiana Governor Samuel McInerney had declared the fight illegal, so Sullivan, Ryan and their respective parties moved the fight to Mississippi.\n\nGovernor Lowry of Mississippi issued a proclamation ordering all local sheriffs to do whatever was necessary to stop the illegal fight. The next day, the fight crowd moved to Mississippi City, Mississippi where a ring was set up in front of the Barnes Hotel in a grove of live oaks. The local sheriff was not present, and the fight took place in Mississippi anyway, where there was actually no written statute that outlawed boxing. Sullivan, the proud Irishman, wore green pants and stockings, to Ryan's white pants and stockings with spiked boxing shoes. The fight was to be a bare-knuckle contest governed by the London Prize Ring Rules, and fought on dirt in a 24-foot ring. The championship contest may well have been Sullivan's first bare-knuckle bout. Each side put up $2,500 with an additional $1,000 put up for each side by Sullivan's chief backer, and owner of the boxing magazine \"Police Gazette\" Richard K. Fox, making the winner's stake $3,500, one of the larger American purses to date. There were about 2,000 spectators present.\nRyan was six years older, at least ten pounds lighter, but an inch or two taller, which gifted him with greater reach. His advantage in reach was apparently offset by less sophisticated defensive skills and speed, and somewhat inferior conditioning. Sullivan's seconds were Billy Madden and Joe Goss. His umpire was James Shannon. There was a dispute over the selection of a referee which was finally settled by the appointment of two referees: Alexander Brewster of New Orleans and Jack Hardy of Vicksburg. Considered ancient for a modern boxer, the thirty-seven year old Ryan knew he was battered from his long career and admitted, “I meant to have retired before, but you know how it is. When you whip somebody there is always somebody else turning up that wants to try his hand, and that’s the way I am caught this time.”\n\nFollowing an old tradition, Sullivan threw his hat in the ring at 11:45 am. Ryan came into the ring at 11:57 with the crowd estimated at 5,000. The men then approached the scratch line in the center of the ring and shook hands.\n\nThe \"New York Herald\" wrote that from the first round, Sullivan appeared superior. His rights were devastating and Ryan had difficulty recovering from them. Early in the fight, Sullivan decked Ryan with his famed right. Countering quickly, the reigning champion wrestled Sullivan to the ground to end round two. But the exertion of the maneuver sapped Ryan's energy and he found himself thrown about in clinches thereafter, despite his wrestling background. After nine rounds and only twenty minutes, Sullivan knocked Ryan out with a final right-handed punch which landed under Ryan's left ear. Ryan left the ring with his jaw visibly swollen. This was the last time the heavyweight championship would be won in a bare knuckle fight in history. Ryan fought Sullivan on many occasions afterward, but never won. After the bout, Sullivan was a frequent sparring partner of Ryan's. Sullivan's fame and his acceptance among both American aristocracy and the lower classes was unique and new in the boxing world, and would help both boxers draw large crowds to the exhibitions they would later stage in the Northeast.\n\nIn Ryan's era, boxing titles were informal, as there were no globally recognized sanctioning bodies to bestow legitimacy to a world title. Some sources refer to him as the \"Heavyweight Champion of America\" while others call him a world champion. To a large extent, he was recognized as the world champion of boxing while he held the title, as heavyweights held reign over other weight classes at the time, and had larger followings.\n\nRyan was less active in boxing in 1883 when he knocked out Montanna champion Jack Waite in a three-round exhibition on October 21. The results of several fights he scheduled that year failed to appear in the press. He continued to meet few opponents in 1884-1885, though on January 19, 1885, Ryan fought a no contest bout with Sullivan at New York's Madison Square Garden. Some sources report Ryan lost, but in any event, police intervened in the first round and stopped the fight.\nRyan was one of a party of gentlemen entertained by Robert Emmet Odlum, brother of women's rights activist Charlotte Odlum Smith, on the morning of May 19, 1885, the day he jumped from the Brooklyn Bridge and was killed, though his intention was merely to prove that the jump could be made safely. Ryan assisted in unsuccessful resuscitation efforts.\n\nRyan fought a two-round draw with Frank Glover on September 13, 1886 in Chicago. Ryan fought at 210, above his normal fighting weight and was described as too \"fleshy\" by a Wisconsin paper. The referees split on a decision, so a draw was called, when a dozen police officers intervened and stopped the fight in the second round. The bout was fought on a boat in the rain using the London Prize Rules and close to 1,500 spectators had huddled nearby to see the match.\n\nThe new Queensbury rules banned all forms of wrestling, which may have hurt Ryan in his next fight against the superior scientific boxer, Jack McCaulliffe. Queensbury's fixed three minute rounds and longer one minute rest interval helped boxers regain their strength and sustain more energy, and a fixed ten second count allowed an injured boxer some time to recover as well. A prohibition on hitting an opponent in the back of the head or in their back added a modicum of safety to the more lax and dangerous London Prize Ring Rules.\n\nRyan lived for a few years in San Francisco in the late 80's. On November 13, 1886, before a crowd of 8,000, Ryan had a non-title rematch with Sullivan, at the Mechanic's Pavilion in San Francisco, California; he lost by knockout in a 3-round contest. He was down in the first from a short arm to the chin, though both boxers appeared to have traded some solid blows to the face before the round ended. Ryan was down again in the second, before a second knockdown in the third ended the fight. The fight was fought with gloves and adhered to the Marquess of Queensbury Rules, first published in 1867.\n\nRyan lost to Joe McAuliffe, who knocked him out in three rounds on December 23, 1887 in San Francisco. The fight was fought with gloves using the new Queensbury Rules, which necessitated their use. McCauliffe had a thirteen year age advantage, and was known as a powerful man and a strong puncher. In a fight not fought to the satisfaction of the spectators, Ryan was down twice in the first round and McCauliffe balked at hitting a groggy Ryan in the second. In the opening of the fourth round, Ryan's seconds threw up the sponge, ending the bout.\n\nRyan was arrested on a charge of grand larceny of $100 on 21 February 21, 1888, in San Francisco, where he was still living at the time, though once the charge was found to be fraudulent, he was quickly acquitted and released.\n\nSeveral newspapers reported that Ryan lost to John Donner on May 4, 1888 in Duluth, Minnesota, by knockout, though a reliable source reported the boxer was not Paddy Ryan the ex-champion and that Ryan was living in San Francisco.\n\nRyan performed in a series of lucrative and well attended exhibitions with Sullivan, primarily in New England, from 1891-1897, before retiring from boxing. In their three-round exhibition in March 1896, in Visalia, California, 230 miles southeast of San Francisco, Sullivan was described as \"beefy and far from looking like a pugilist, while Ryan was said to still be in good form.\n\nOn March 5, 1899, Ryan refereed the Alt Allen vs. Fred Wyatt match in Plattsburgh, New York.\n\nReturning to New York after boxing retirement, he refereed a few fights and worked in Albany.\n\nIn his last months, Ryan lost his speech and suffered from Bright's disease. A subscription was started for his benefit, contributed to generously by Sullivan, and a benefit in his honor was given at Madison Square Garden. Ryan died from his disease on December 14, 1900 in Green Island, New York, aged 49. He was buried in St. Mary's Cemetery. He was survived by a daughter.\n\nRyan was elected to \"The Ring\" magazine's Hall of Fame in 1973.\n"}
{"id": "2062851", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2062851", "title": "Eriosomatinae", "text": "Eriosomatinae\n\nWoolly aphids (subfamily: Eriosomatinae) are sucking insects that live on plant sap and produce a filamentous waxy white covering which resembles cotton or wool. The adults are winged and move to new locations where they lay egg masses. The nymphs often form large cottony masses on twigs, for protection from predators. \n\nWoolly aphids occur throughout the Northern Hemisphere. Many of the numerous species of woolly aphids have only one host plant species, or alternating generations on two specific hosts. They have been known to cause botanical damage and are often considered a pest. While most damage is minor, they can spread plant diseases and fungi. Some species can produce galls as well.\n\nIn flight they have been described as looking like \"flying mice.\" Other nicknames include \"angel flies\", \"fluff bugs\", \"fairy flies\", \"ash bugs\", \"snow bugs\", \"fluffer fairies\", \"poodle flies\", and \"fluffy gnats\".\n\nWoolly aphids feed by inserting their needle-like mouthparts into plant tissue to withdraw sap. They are able to feed on leaves, buds, bark, and even the roots of the plant. As a result of feeding on the sap, woolly aphids produce a sticky substance known as honeydew, which can lead to sooty mold on the plant.\n\nWoolly aphids generally are not much cause for alarm, although they can cause rather unsightly damage to plants, which is particularly a problem for growers of ornamental plants. Symptoms caused by their feeding on a plant include twisted and curled leaves, yellowed foliage, poor plant growth, low plant vigor, and branch dieback.\n\nThe woolly apple aphid, \"Eriosoma lanigerum\" is a widespread pest of fruit trees, feeding principally on apple, but also, pears, hawthorn, ash, alders, elms and oaks. Gall making species include \"Melaphis rhois and\" \"Pemphigus\" spp.\n\nFurther minor damage can be caused by the honeydew that woolly aphids secrete, which is difficult to remove. While the honeydew itself doesn't cause too much of a problem, the honeydew can cause sooty mold to grow, which can block some of the sunlight needed for photosynthesis.\n\nWoolly aphids and other sucking insects are often vectors of transmission for powdery mildew (a white fungus which grows on above ground parts of some plants), and other infectious diseases. Typically wooly aphids in subtemperate climates precede and are an indicator of various plant infections, including powdery mildew. Aphids penetrate plant surfaces where they often reside and provide a host of potential inoculants through physical, digestive or fecal secretions. Aphids are often an indicator of other potential plant problems.\n\nThe subfamily Eriosomatinae has recently been placed within the family Aphididae. It was previously placed in family Pemphigidae = Eriosomatidae, but that taxon is no longer valid.\n\n\"Aphidounguis\" -\n\"Byrsocryptoides\" -\n\"Colopha\" -\n\"Colophina\" -\n\"Eriosoma\" -\n\"Gharesia\" -\n\"Hemipodaphis\" -\n\"Kaltenbachiella\" -\n\"Paracolopha\" -\n\"Schizoneurata\" -\n\"Schizoneurella\" -\n\"Siciunguis\" -\n\"Tetraneura\" -\n\"Zelkovaphis\"\n\n\"Aloephagus\" -\n\"Aploneura\" -\n\"Asiphonella\" -\n\"Baizongia\" -\n\"Chaetogeoica\" -\n\"Dimelaphis\" -\n\"Forda\" -\n\"Geoica\" -\n\"Geopemphigus\" -\n\"Kaburagia\" -\n\"Melaphis\" -\n\"Nurudea\" -\n\"Paracletus\" -\n\"Rectinasus\" -\n\"Schlechtendalia\" -\n\"Slavum\" -\n\"Smynthurodes\" -\n\"Tramaforda\"\n\n\"Ceratopemphigiella\" -\n\"Ceratopemphigus\" -\n\"Clydesmithia\" -\n\"Cornaphis\" -\n\"Diprociphilus\" -\n\"Epipemphigus\" -\n\"Formosaphis\" -\n\"Gootiella\" -\n\"Grylloprociphilus\" -\n\"Mimeuria\" -\n\"Mordwilkoja\" -\n\"Neopemphigus\" -\n\"Neoprociphilus\" -\n\"Pachypappa\" -\n\"Pachypappella\" -\n\"Patchiella\" -\n\"Pemphigus\" -\n\"Prociphilus\" -\n\"Thecabius\" -\n\"Tiliphagus\" -\n\"Uichancoella\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2062857", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2062857", "title": "Moyola Park Golf Club", "text": "Moyola Park Golf Club\n\nMoyola Park Golf Club is an 18-hole championship golf course set in 130 acres (53 hectares) of mature wooded parkland in the Shanemullagh Estate at Castledawson, County Londonderry, Northern Ireland. It was founded in 1977 by James Chichester-Clark (former Prime Minister of Northern Ireland) and his wife on family land at Moyola Park. The River Moyola runs through the course.\n\nThe club has recently completed an extensive development programme.\n\n"}
{"id": "2062862", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2062862", "title": "Krutitsy", "text": "Krutitsy\n\nKrutitsy Metochion (), full name: Krutitsy Patriarchal Metochion () is an operating ecclesiastical estate of Russian Orthodox Church, located in Tagansky District of Moscow, Russia, 3 kilometers south-east from the Kremlin. The name \"Krutitsy\" (pl.), i.e. \"steep river banks\", originally meant the hills immediately east from Yauza River. Krutitsy Metochion, established in the late 13th century, contains listed historical buildings erected in the late 17th century on the site of earlier 16th century foundations. After a brief period of prosperity in the 17th century, Krutitsy was shut down by imperial authorities in the 1780s, and served as a military warehouse for nearly two centuries. It was restored by Petr Baranovsky and gradually opened to the public after World War II; in 1991-1996, Krutitsy was returned to the Church and re-established as the personal metochion of Patriarch of Moscow and all Russia.\n\n\nAfter the Mongol invasion of Russia, in 1261, Russian Orthodox clergy established the Diocese of Sarai in the capital city of the Golden Horde, with an overt mission to serve the numerous Slavic population of Sarai (some Slavs were abducted by force, some joined the Mongol service voluntarily; Russian princes had to pay regular visits of homage to Sarai). Some Orthodox priests, both Greek and Russian, entertained an idea of converting the Mongols to Christianity and thus acquire political influence for the Muscovites. The Mongols were quite tolerant to Christian churches, and it is speculated that Genghis Khan's mother was a Nestorian. The new diocese was styled as \"Diocese of Sarai and Don\"\n\nPrince Daniel of Moscow, appreciating the benefits of this alliance, donated to the diocese lands on Moscow River banks, strategically placed on the direct river route to Sarai, near the land road to Kolomna and Ryazan. In 1272, Diocese completed the first church on a new site. In the fifteenth century the Golden Horde disintegrated into several warring principalities, its Orthodox population dispersed, thus in 1454 the Diocese relocated to Moscow. Bishop Vassian lost his see, but acquired a new title - Bishop of Krutitsy, and retained the old one. In 1492 the new Diocese acquired its own territoried in lower Volga and Don areas; its bishops gained political influence and in 1589 acquired the style of Metropolitans of Krutitsy, Bishops of Sarai and Don. \n\nDuring the Time of Troubles, when Kremlin Cathedrals were taken over by pretenders, Dormition Cathedral of Krutitsy was, temporarily, the main cathedral of Muscovy; despite later plundering by the Poles, loyalty to the winning party guaranteed further prosperity and influence in spiritual matters and politics. In the 1650s, Krutitsy was a site of bitter disputes between Patriarch Nikon and Old Believers (and, subsequently, a jail for the latter). The golden age of Krutitsy coincided with the rule of Metropolitan Paul II in 1664-1676. Paul II launched an ambitious construction program, building a new Dormition Cathedral, Metropolitan's Chamber, and an exquisite garden with Moscow's first fountain. Further improvements, notably the Gallery and Teremok, were completed by his successors.\n\nIn 1711, when emperor Peter I abolished patriarchy and subordinated the Church to State, Metropolitans of Krutitsy were downgraded to bishops (with an exception of revered Metropolitan Ignat Smola in 1719-1722). Soon, Krutitsy was hit by the fire of 1737; old wooden roofs burnt down and were replaced with tin, damaged frescoes simply whitewashed. In 1744-1751 the struggling abbey operated a seminary, and eventually lost this privilege too. In 1764 the state abolished the redundant Diocese of Saray and Don; in 1785, it abolished Diocese of Krutitsy and shut down the abbey, its relics and archives moved to Chudov Monastery.\n\nVacant property passed to the Imperial Military; Krutitsy became a military base. Dormition Cathedral burnt down in the Fire of Moscow (1812) to such extent that Alexander Tormasov, military governor of Moscow, ordered to demolish the remains and build barracks or stables instead. The order was cancelled after intervention of the clergy, when demolition was already underway. In 1817 the cathedral finally acquired a new roof; upper church opened in 1823.\n\nIn 1833, Krutitsy found a new sponsor - Grand Duke Alexander, future Alexander II. With all his influence, restoration by Konstantin Thon and Yevgraph Tyurin lasted for more than thirty years, to 1868. The military, however, retained most of the lands and Riverside Dormitory, and encircled the old abbey with a ring of new warehouses and barracks (still existing and operational today). These barracks also doubled as jail, handling prisoners like Alexander Herzen.\n\nAfter the Russian Revolution of 1917, Dormition Cathedral operated until 1924. Then, it was closed, looted, frescoes covered with oil paint. All land was again granted to the military. In 1936-1938, Resurrection church was rebuilt into barracks, the old cemetery levelled and converted to a football field. Diocese of Krutitsy was created again in 1920, then in 1947 merged with Diocese of Kolomna.\n\nThe same 1947, Petr Baranovsky, an outstanding Russian restorer, made Krutitsy the headquarters of his restoration workshop. Much work was undertaken to renovate the buildings in the 1960s, 1970s, and 1980s. Meanwhile, the property was still run by the military, which gradually vacated the buildings, starting with Dormition Cathedral in 1964.\n\nDespite the 1947 decree on Krutitsy restoration, it was listed as a memorial building only in 1966, when the state launched massive redevelopment of adjacent low-rise neighborhoods. In 1982, Krutitsy became a branch of State Historical Museum (and still remains). Finally, in 1991 and 1996 the buildings of Krutitsy were returned to the church, and acquired their present title of Patriarch's Metochion. As of June, 2007, restoration is still under way in Resurrection Church and Riverside Dormitory.\n\nThe official site of the Krutitsy Metochion voices a version that in 1953 Lavrentiy Beria was jailed at Krutitsy. However, it this not corroborated by academic historians, and it is just as likely that Beria was murdered during his June 26 arrest and subsequent \"detention\" and \"trial\" was a coverup.\n\nKrutitsy Metochion is located within walking distance from Proletarskaya subway station and Novospassky Monastery, and has two gates for the public, accessible from Krutitskaya Street or the First Krutitsky Lane. It is not a monastery, looking more like a park managed by the clergy, however, certain rules are enforced:\n\n"}
{"id": "2062867", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2062867", "title": "Keith Beauchamp (filmmaker)", "text": "Keith Beauchamp (filmmaker)\n\nKeith Beauchamp (born 1972) is a filmmaker based in Brooklyn who investigated the murder of Emmett Till, fifty years after Till's death in 1955, Beauchamp's research eventually led him to create the documentary film \"The Untold Story of Emmett Louis Till\" , and the reopening of the case by the United States Department of Justice in May 2004.\n\nBeauchamp first encountered the Emmett Till story at age ten while looking through an issue of Jet magazine. In 1996 he started his own research, and found microfilm of articles which listed witness who had not been questioned by police, and references to uncharged participants in the murder, besides J.W. Milam and Roy Bryant, who were found not guilty of Till's murder, but later publicly confessed. Through the help of other researchers, Beauchamp contacted witnesses, but he says that it was some years before they trusted him enough to speak on camera. Researching and creating the film took nine years.\n\nBeauchamp says that he almost suffered a similar fate to Till in 1989. He states that as a young man at a dance in a Louisiana nightclub a doorman/bouncer accosted him for dancing with a white girl. According to Beauchamp, an undercover police officer then dragged him outside where he was beaten, before being taken to a police station where he was handcuffed to a chair and beaten further. He says that the abuse only stopped when the police realized that Beauchamp was close friends with the son of a sheriff's department major.\n\nBeauchamp is involved in other film work but credits the \"Untold Story\" with occupying and shaping his life in a major way, and his relationship with Mamie Till, Emmett mother's, with inspiring him to create the film. His story was featured in various television shows including \"60 Minutes\" with Ed Bradley.\n\nIn February 2007, the Jackson \"Clarion-Ledger\" reported that both the FBI and a Leflore County Grand Jury, which was empaneled by Joyce Chiles, a black prosecutor, had found no credible basis for Keith Beauchamp's claim that fourteen individuals took part in Till's abduction and murder or that any are still alive. The Grand Jury also decided not to pursue charges against Carolyn Bryant Donham, Roy Bryant's ex-wife. Neither the FBI nor the Grand Jury found any credible evidence that Henry Lee Loggins, currently living in an Ohio nursing home, and identified by Beauchamp as a suspect who could be charged, had any role in the crime. Beauchamp still refuses to name the fourteen people who he says were involved although the FBI and District Attorney have now completed their investigations of his charges and he is free to go on the record. \nA story by Jerry Mitchell in the Clarion-Ledger on February 18, 2007, describes Beauchamp's allegation that fourteen or more were involved as a \"legend.\" Beauchamp contends that his initiative and extensive work with the FBI have inspired the bureau to re-open several such cold civil rights cases.\n\n"}
{"id": "2062868", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2062868", "title": "Duffing map", "text": "Duffing map\n\nThe Duffing map (also called as 'Holmes map') is a discrete-time dynamical system. It is an example of a dynamical system that exhibits chaotic behavior. The Duffing map takes a point (\"x\", \"y\") in the plane and maps it to a new point given by\n\nThe map depends on the two constants \"a\" and \"b\". These are usually set to \"a\" = 2.75 and \"b\" = 0.2 to produce chaotic behaviour. It is a discrete version of the Duffing equation.\n\n"}
{"id": "2062873", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2062873", "title": "American Society of News Editors", "text": "American Society of News Editors\n\nThe American Society of News Editors (ASNE) is a membership organization for editors, producers or directors in charge of journalistic organizations or departments, deans or faculty at university journalism schools, and leaders and faculty of media-related foundations and training organizations.\n\nThe American Society of Newspaper Editors formed after two United States publications took the newspaper industry to task. In January 1922 \"The Atlantic Monthly\" featured two articles by Frederick Lewis Allen and Moorfield Storey were critical and requested change in how newspapers were published. After reading the articles Casper Yost saw the need for forming an organization of editors willing to combat criticism.\n\nYost wrote to a few dozen editors soliciting support. The responses were positive and, just a month later, in February 1922, a small meeting was held in Chicago. Attendees included Yost and editors from Cleveland, Detroit and Chicago. They gathered to discuss action they could take for the advancement of the news and editorial side, to develop a constitution and a code of ethics and to launch a recruiting campaign for the group. The editors called a meeting in New York that April, when editors would be joining their publishers and congregating for the annual ANPA meeting (despite no formal mention of them by ANPA in its bulletins). Their efforts were so successful that by October nearly 100 charter members had signed up.\n\nThe organization amended its bylaws and changed its name to the American Society of News Editors in April, 2009.\n\nIn October 1922, ASNE was launched with directors and officers; they hammered out a code of ethics, named committees and made preparations for the first convention at the New Willard Hotel in Washington the next April. The founders decided that ASNE would be an organization of individual editors of big-city papers — limiting membership to editors of newspapers in cities of 100,000 or more. Since then, rules have been loosened extensively.\n\nThe convention is held annually - with the exception of 1945 and 2009 - mostly in Washington.\n\nEvery U.S. president has spoken at the organization's convention and it is considered a premier venue for politicians to appear. Notable examples are President Coolidge's Press Under a Free Government speech and President Eisenhower's Chance for Peace speech.\n\nASNE has several initiatives carried out by its committees. The Diversity Committee was formed to evaluate employee diversity using the Newsroom Employment Census. The census queries every daily newspaper and online news site in the United States to determine the number of news staffers as well as their gender and race as part of the organization's yearly census.\n\nThe ASNE Awards are another key initiative of the organization. They include the Batten Medal, the Osborn Award for Editorial Leadership, the Sulzberger Award for Online Storytelling, the Howell Award for Nondeadline Writing, the Royko Award for Commentary/Column Writing, the Distinguished Writing on Diversity Award, the Local Accountability Reporting Award, the Community Service Photojournalism Award and the Breaking News Writing award.\n\nASNE also runs several projects, generally carried out by staff with advice from committees. Projects subject areas have included diversity, credibility and readership.\n\nThe association started the national Sunshine Week initiative promoting the importance of open government. Sunshine laws were enacted to make sure journalists have access to all government meetings.\n\n"}
{"id": "2062874", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2062874", "title": "Georg Ferdinand Howaldt", "text": "Georg Ferdinand Howaldt\n\nGeorg Ferdinand Howaldt (8 April 1802 – 19 January 1883) was a German sculptor.\n\nHowaldt was born in Braunschweig as the son of the silversmith David Ferdinand Howaldt. He learned silversmithing and went to Nuremberg, where he became friends with the sculptor Jacob Daniel Burgschmiet, who convinced him to change to modelling and sculpture. He became a teacher in modelling there and continued teaching modelling when he returned to Braunschweig in 1836. The success out of his cooperation with the famous sculptor Ernst Rietschel allowed him to start his own foundry casting sculptures for many known German sculptors of the nineteenth century. Since 1863 he was professor at the \"Collegium Carolinum zu Braunschweig\", today TU Braunschweig. Howaldt died in Braunschweig. His son Hermann Heinrich Howaldt, also a sculptor, had joined him and continued his work and the foundry under \"Howaldt & Sohn\" until his own death.\n\nHis brother August Howaldt was in 1838 the founder of the German shipyard \"Howaldtswerke\" in Kiel.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2062876", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2062876", "title": "John Fraser (actor)", "text": "John Fraser (actor)\n\nJohn Alexander Fraser (born 18 March 1931) is a Scottish actor and author. He is best known for his performances in the films \"The Good Companions\" (1957), \"The Trials of Oscar Wilde\" (1960), \"El Cid\" (1961), \"Repulsion\" (1965) and \"Isadora\" (1968).\n\nOne of his earliest roles was as Inigo Jollifant in the second film version of J. B. Priestley's \"The Good Companions\" (1957). He went on to have leading roles in films such as \"El Cid\", \"The Trials of Oscar Wilde\" (playing Lord Alfred Douglas), Roman Polanski's \"Repulsion\", \"Isadora\" and \"Schizo\". He made appearances on television series including \"Danger Man\" (1964), \"Randall and Hopkirk\" (1969), \"Columbo\" (1972), \"Doctor Who\" (1981) and \"The Bill\" (1995).\n\nIn 2004, he published his autobiography, \"Close Up\", in which he wrote frankly about his gay life and friendships. In the book, Fraser wrote that actor Laurence Harvey was gay and that his long-term lover was his manager James Woolf. Of Dirk Bogarde, Fraser wrote, \"Dirk's life with [Anthony] Forwood had been so respectable, their love for each other so profound and so enduring, it would have been a glorious day for the pursuit of understanding and the promotion of tolerance if he had screwed up the courage ... to make one dignified allusion to his true nature. Self-love is no substitute for self-respect.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2062884", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2062884", "title": "Albert Tatlock", "text": "Albert Tatlock\n\nAlbert Tatlock is a fictional character on the British television soap opera \"Coronation Street\". Albert was played by actor Jack Howarth from 1960 to 1984. The character became something of an institution, so much so that grumpy old men were sometimes nicknamed \"Albert Tatlock\".\n\nA veteran of the First World War, Albert settled back into civilian life by marrying and starting a family, however his wife Bessie died in 1959 and he retired from his job at the Town Hall the following year, taking up a new occupation as the street's resident grumpy old man, forever complaining about the struggles of old age and living on the low income from his pension.\n\nAlthough Albert was never close to his daughter Beattie, he maintained close ties with his brother Alfred's family, particularly his niece Valerie, who married Albert's neighbour Ken Barlow in 1962. With Val's death in 1971, and Beattie's continued absence, Ken eventually moved into No. 1 and took care of Albert in his twilight years until his death in May 1984.\n\nAlbert was delighted when his niece Valerie (Anne Reid), daughter of his brother Alfred, came to stay with him, and began seeing neighbour Ken Barlow (William Roache); and even more so when the pair got married in 1962. Albert was pleased to have family ties in the street and he was a frequent visitor at No. 9.\n\nNot idle in his retirement, Albert got a job as a school crossing warden and hired an allotment from the Council to grow his own vegetables. In 1965, Albert asked Clara Midgeley (Betty Hardy) to look after his house while he went for an extended visit to his daughter Beattie Pearson's (Gabrielle Daye), and upon his return he soon realised Clara was interested in him. Clara proposed to Albert but he turned her down, saying he was too set in his ways.\n\nMoney was always a great concern of Albert's. In 1967, he briefly bought items in bulk with Ena Sharples (Violet Carson) to cut costs and later took a live-in assistant job at the Fusiliers' Museum, working for his old friend Harry Dunscombe. Effie Spicer (Anne Dyson) looked after No. 1 while Albert was living elsewhere. Effie left the house abruptly upon Albert's return as he had increased her rent because he hated the decorating she had done as a surprise for him.\n\nIn 1969, Albert found himself warming to the idea of remarrying, so he would have someone to spend his old age with. He proposed to Alice Pickins (Doris Hare), who had been pursuing him for nearly a year, however as the guests assembled for the wedding, the vicar was delayed, and Alice thought it was a bad sign and decided not to marry Albert after all. Further upset came for Albert in 1971 when Ken and Valerie decided to emigrate. Just as he was coming to terms with their departure, Valerie died in an accident in the Barlows' maisonette, and a distraught Ken decided to stay in the country. Even though Ken was not a blood relative, Albert had come to accept him as part of his family and eventually let him lodge at No. 1 although he made clear his disapproval that Ken had decided to send his and Val's twins Peter and Susan (Robert and Katie Heaneu) to live in Scotland with Val's parents, Alfred and Edith Tatlock (Clare Kelly).\n\nIn the meantime, Albert's financial woes continued. He took a job as co-caretaker at the local Community Centre and in 1973 suggested to friend Minnie Caldwell (Margot Bryant) that they marry for financial reasons (Minnie was also struggling with money). After months of being engaged, Minnie pressed Albert to set a date for the wedding. However, when her friend Ena pointed out that as a couple they would earn less than they would separately, Minnie called off the engagement. Both were relieved, as they were starting to get on each other's nerves.\n\nAlbert celebrated his 80th birthday in August 1975. To his surprise, the neighbours threw a surprise party for him. They had contacted his old regiment who sent along a bugler. In 1976, Albert had a dispute when he won money at the bingo with Bertha Lumley (Madoline Thomas), as she did not share her winnings with him despite their agreement. Albert was threatened by Bertha's husband Nat (Eric Longworth), so he decided to leave well alone.\n\nAlbert was very proud of his war record, and took a dim view of Minnie's friend Handel Gartside (Harry Markham) when he found out he was a conscientious objector, and even at one point refused to let Handel in his house. In 1980, Albert sold his Military Medal to go to London for Remembrance Day, to pay tribute to his war friend Monty Shawcross. When Ken saw how upset Albert was that he had sold his medal, he bought it back for him.\n\nIn the late 1970s, Albert spent his days taking care of his allotment, though he feared the Council would take it off him because of his age. Ken had married again but was now back at No. 1 after being widowed. However, in 1981, Ken married for a third time, to Deirdre Langton (Anne Kirkbride). Ken and Deirdre planned to move although Ken felt an obligation to take care of Albert, as Albert's daughter Beattie continued to visit him only a few times a year. Albert wanted to stay in No. 1 but knew that if he left the house to Ken and Deirdre in his will it would upset Beattie, so the Barlows decided to buy it from him instead (although Beattie was still upset by the news). Albert agreed to move into the front parlour so that Deirdre's daughter Tracy (Holly Chamarette) could take his room.\n\nAlbert Tatlock died of a heart attack on 13 May 1984, aged 88, while visiting Beattie. His death mirrored the real life death of the actor who played him, Jack Howarth, who had died in hospital six weeks earlier. In 2014, Albert's medal featured in a further storyline, when Tracy sold it. Deirdre was furious and demanded she get it back or else she would kick her out of No. 1.\n\nIn January 2019, Ken's long-lost son Daniel Osbourne (Rob Mallard) and his wife Sinead (Katie McGlynn) had a baby boy whom they named Bertie, after Albert.\n\nTo those that did not know him, Albert could be perceived as a very bitter person, as he was constantly complaining about nearly every aspect of his life, and seemed to think that his problems amounted to more than anyone else's, however trivial they were. Although he was never chatty or chirpy, in the 1960s Albert was more accepting of the troubles life threw at him, however as the years went by as Albert became more set in his ways he became grumpier, sounding off about his problems to anyone who tried to engage him in conversation.\n\nTo his family and closest friends, as well as anyone willing to indulge him in recollections of his war stories, Albert showed a softer side. Although a pessimist, he was also nostalgic, and easily grew attached to things that were important to him. Unfortunately, this occasionally manifested itself through stubbornness, especially in family matters, as he tended to think he knew what was best for people and would not hesitate to tell them, even if he knew they disagreed with him. Likewise, when let down by his family, he was prone to feeling sorry for himself until his indignation was validated.\n\nDespite his advancing years, Albert was very active in the community in Coronation Street, acting as Chairman of the Over 60s Club in 1961, organising an Over 60s bazaar in 1964 and a trip to the Preston Guild in 1972.\n\nIn 1962, he formed the Mission Hall Players, through which the residents performed in pantomime in Lady Lawson Loses in the Mission, with Albert himself playing the role of Manders. Almost without exception, Albert participated in all subsequent plays performed in the Mission and Community Centre, playing Baron Hardup (panto), the Genie (Aladdin), and Baron (Cinderella), as well as Rob Wilton in a 40s show in the Rovers and reciting \"The Girl I Kissed on the Stairs\" at a Christmas concert.\n\nHaving worked at the Town Hall, Albert was also pressed into action by the residents for several causes, including investigating the possibility of Coronation Street being demolished. He also started a petition to stop the street being renamed. Albert also served the community by working as Caretaker at the Mission after Ena Sharples lost the job in 1961, even though the job required him to move out of his beloved No.1 and into the Mission vestry. He later gave up the job so that Ena could be reinstated.\n\nAlbert was closest to those who took the time to visit him. His daughter Beattie rarely did so, usually turning up only when she was needed. Albert did not feel close to her and refused his Doctor's recommendations that he moved in with Beattie and her husband Norman Pearson, as he knew they did not want him and so he would never be at home. Beattie liked to think of herself as the perfect daughter to Albert, and overcompensated for her inactive role in his life during her fleeting visits, such as when she guilted Jerry Booth into paying £5 compensation when Albert was gassed by a faulty cooper fitted by Jerry, Albert having made clear that he did not want compensation.\nHis best friends in Coronation Street were the Barlow family, who lived next door at No.3. Both Ken and David Barlow were frequent visitors at No.1, with Ken in particular seeking solace in Albert's house when he needed to get away from family pressures. Albert could not have been happier when Ken married his niece Valerie. After a while, Ken even started to call Albert \"Uncle Albert\" as Val did. Albert thought of the Barlows as his extended family, and was upset when David married Irma Ogden while he was away, as he had not wanted to miss the wedding.\n\nKen lived with Albert for periods during the 1970s and from 1976 onwards. As Ken tried to forge a new life after Val's death, Albert was very critical of his decisions, especially those relating to his love life, as he did not think any girl was worthy of following Val. He eventually gave his approval of Ken's overnight marriage to Janet Reid, and he was upset when they separated. It took a long time for Albert to warm to Deirdre Langton, as he resented the fact that she had a daughter from a previous marriage who Ken was spending more time with than his own children, however he later changed his mind and encouraged them to live at No.1 when they got married.\n\nEven over those of his own father Frank Barlow, Ken recalls Albert's words when he recounts the fatherly advice he received in the past. A photograph of Albert remains on the mantelpiece at No.1.\n\nAlbert's closest friends in Coronation Street were Rovers landlady Annie Walker and landlord Jack, Mission caretaker Ena Sharples and one-time fiancé Minnie Caldwell. All four friendships lasted decades and they were among the few people who indulged Albert when he was on a tirade.\n\nAlbert's main topics of conversation were the war and his allotment. He enjoyed nothing more than talking about old times and especially old battles. In 1968, when he believed the author of a book about the Battle of Lys got his facts wrong, he planned to expose him, until it was discovered that Albert had got lost while out on patrol and missed the battle himself. In 1971, BBC Manchester interviewed Albert about the war.\n\nAlbert's allotment provided something to do in his later years. When he feared the Council was going to take it off him, the neighbours agreed to help out, although he was furious when Ray Langton carved \"Albert rules OK\" into his marrow. Further, salad from his allotment was the cause of a sickness in the street when it was sold at the Corner Shop in 1978.\n\nAlbert was also a cricket fan, and hoped to go see the West Indies team play. A rum drinker, his catch phrases in the \"Rovers Return\" were \"I'll have a rum.\" and \"Eeh by gum.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2062899", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2062899", "title": "SM Megamall", "text": "SM Megamall\n\nSM Megamall is the second largest shopping mall in the Philippines and the ninth largest in the world that is developed and operated by SM Prime Holdings. It is located in Ortigas Center, Mandaluyong, Philippines. The mall occupies a land area of approximately and has a total floor area of . The mall has a maximum capacity of 4 million people.\n\nSM Megamall was constructed in 1989 and opened its doors on June 28, 1991. It is the third SM Supermall ever built by Henry Sy Sr. after the SM City Sta. Mesa and SM City North EDSA. The mall is located in the Ortigas Center at the portion encompassed by Mandaluyong City. It stands along the main EDSA thoroughfare and is almost adjacent to the Ortigas MRT Station. The SM Megamall was the largest mall in the country for a 17-year period, but when the SM Mall of Asia was built in 2006, it was ranked third largest in the country by floor area at that time, measuring of total retail floor area and after SM City North EDSA (which ranks first in the country and second in the world). It also boasted the first ice skating rink (removed in 2009 but rebuilt in 2014) as well as one of the first trade halls in the country.\n\nBy 2010s, SM Megamall expanded with the addition of the Building C in 2011 and the Mega Fashion Hall in 2014, bringing the total retail floor area to . In 2018, SM partnered with Cal-Comp Technology (Philippines) Inc. for the provision of its New Era AI (Artificial Intelligence) Robotic service robots stationed at SM Megamall by the first quarter of 2019.\n\nThe mall has two main buildings. Building A features the 12 digital cinemas on the third floor, a foodcourt and Toy Kingdom on the lower ground floor and other anchor tenants. It also features Forever 21 located on the second level of Building A. Building B features The SM Store, Cyberzone on the fourth floor, The Mega Trade Hall on the fifth floor, and other anchor tenants. It has been expanded with the Mega Fashion Hall which opened in January 2014. The SM Supermarket is featured on both buildings (in which the SM Supermarket at the Building A was a former space of Toy Kingdom when it was relocated at the former bowling center). The bridgeway connecting the two main buildings of the mall contains several eateries.\n\nThe Mega Atrium is an addition to the existing two buildings. The Atrium, completed in 2008, bridges the gap between Buildings A and B. It features Chapel of the Eucharistic Lord, a 1,585 sqm chapel located on the fifth floor, as well as various shops and restaurants. It can also be rented out as an event venue.\n\nBuilding C is a more recent addition to SM Megamall. Formerly Building A's open-parking facility, it is located near EDSA to the west of Building A and was opened on October 11, 2011. Office space is located on the upper levels of the carpark. It also houses an integrated bus terminal serving the north of Metro Manila including CAMANAVA, Quezon City and further to Bulacan and Rizal. The building also contains a transport terminal and the DFA CO NCR-East, the first passport office of the Department of Foreign Affairs in Metro Manila which opened in August 2012.\n\nThe Mega Fashion Hall is the latest expansion of SM Megamall. Featuring a two-level basement parking and a five-level mall with of retail, it houses several global clothing retailers including the three-level H&M store and the three-level Uniqlo which extends to the two uppermost levels of Building B. Aside from clothing stores, the expansion includes dining establishments, houseware stores, service shops, and a Bingo area on the fifth level. The Mega Fashion Hall also houses an IMAX Digital theater (which is also the eighth IMAX cinema in the country), a 56-seat Director's Club Cinema with butler service, an Olympic-sized ice skating rink (replacing the one removed in 2009 from the lower-ground level of Building A), an upscale food court (Mega Food Hall), and a 14-lane bowling center (replacing the one occupied by Toy Kingdom).\n\nAfter the soft opening of the newly constructed Building C Carpark, the mall surpassed SM Mall of Asia by and became the second largest shopping mall in the country.\n\nWith the opening of the Mega Fashion Hall (Building D), the current gross leasable area is , allowing the mall to reclaim the title of the largest mall in the Philippines.\n\nThe addition of the Mega Fashion Hall building added 125 new retail stores, 90% of which are global brands and 10% of which are local retailers.\n\nA 50-storey office tower, named The Mega Tower, will be built next to the Mega Fashion Hall formerly occupied as an open carpark. The S-shaped tower will be directly connected to the Mega Fashion Hall and will feature three levels of basement parking and multilevel parking. It will have a leasable area of .\n\nArquitectonica is the firm responsible for the architectural design while Aurecon is the structural engineer for the building project.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2062900", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2062900", "title": "1996 Wimbledon Championships", "text": "1996 Wimbledon Championships\n\nThe 1996 Wimbledon Championships was a tennis tournament played on grass courts at the All England Lawn Tennis and Croquet Club in Wimbledon, London in England. It was the 110th edition of the Wimbledon Championships and was held from 24 June to 7 July 1996.\n\nWhen rain interrupted play on Centre Court on 3 July with a crowd that included Prince Michael of Kent, Princess Michael of Kent and actress Joanna Lumley, Cliff Richard, who was watching from the royal box, was approached by court officials for an interview. They suggested that he sing a song or two to entertain the crowd. With approval from his PR manager Richard proceeded to give an impromptu performance, starting with \"Summer Holiday\".\n\nThe performance ran for twenty minutes and consisted of Richard's hits such as \"Living Doll\" and \"Congratulations\", as well as the Elvis Presley hit \"All Shook Up\". Past tennis stars Virginia Wade, Martina Navratilova, Hana Mandlíková, Pam Shriver, Liz Smylie, Gigi Fernández and Conchita Martínez were in the Royal Box and proceeded to join in as background singers.\n\nRichard was not aware that his performance was televised by the BBC, and after six songs presenter Des Lynam jokingly claimed \"we'll probably get one hell of a bill.\" The performance made the front pages in many major British newspapers on the following day. Since a retractable roof was completed on Centre Court in 2009 such a performance is unlikely to happen again.\n\nDuring the entrance of the court staff for the Men's Singles final, the court was briefly invaded by a streaker.\n\nThe total prize money for 1996 championships was £6,465,910. The winner of the men's title earned £392,500 while the women's singles champion earned £353,000.\n\n Richard Krajicek defeated MaliVai Washington, 6–3, 6–4, 6–3 \n\n Steffi Graf defeated Arantxa Sánchez Vicario, 6–3, 7–5 \n\n Todd Woodbridge / Mark Woodforde defeated Byron Black / Grant Connell, 4–6, 6–1, 6–3, 6–2 \n\n Martina Hingis / Helena Suková defeated Meredith McGrath / Larisa Neiland, 5–7, 7–5, 6–1 \n\n Cyril Suk / Helena Suková defeated Mark Woodforde / Larisa Neiland, 1–6, 6–3, 6–2 \n\n Vladimir Voltchkov defeated Ivan Ljubičić, 3–6, 6–2, 6–3 \n\n Amélie Mauresmo defeated Magüi Serna, 4–6, 6–3, 6–4 \n\n Daniele Bracciali / Jocelyn Robichaud defeated Damien Roberts / Wesley Whitehouse, 6–2, 6–4 \n\n Olga Barabanschikova / Amélie Mauresmo defeated Lilia Osterloh / Samantha Reeves, 5–7, 6–3, 6–1 \n\n Wojciech Fibak / Tim Wilkison defeated Pavel Složil / Tomáš Šmíd, 6–2, 5–7, 6–1\n\n Jo Durie / Anne Smith defeated Mima Jaušovec / Yvonne Vermaak, 6–3, 6–2\n\n John Alexander / Phil Dent defeated Marty Riessen / Sherwood Stewart, 7–6, 6–2\n\n"}
{"id": "2062902", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2062902", "title": "Lynx (mythology)", "text": "Lynx (mythology)\n\nThe lynx, a type of wildcat, has a prominent role in Greek, Norse, and North American mythology. It is considered an elusive and mysterious creature, known in some American Indian traditions as a 'keeper of secrets'. It is also believed to have supernatural eyesight, capable of seeing even through solid objects. As a result, it often symbolises the unravelling of hidden truths, and the psychic power of clairvoyance.\n\nIt is claimed by Theophrastus (c. 371 – c. 287 BC) that the lynx's urine hardens into a precious stone with attractive properties akin to amber. Known as \"lapis lyncurius\" or \"lyngurium\", the mythical lynx stone was later mentioned by Pliny the Elder and Ovid; the story was related in almost every medieval lapidary, and bestiary until it gradually disappeared from view in the 17th century. It was believed that the Latin name for amber, 'Lyncurium', was derived from this superstition. Other medieval scholars pointed out that this amber was mined extensively in Liguria, which may hint at a more plausible etymology.\n\nIn Ovid's \"Metamorphoses\" the goddess Demeter commands Triptolemus to travel the world teaching the art of agriculture. He arrives at the court of King Lyncus, who grows desirous of the goddess's favour, and plots to kill Triptolemus in his sleep. No sooner than he raises his sword, however, he is transformed into a lynx.\n\nIn 1603, the Accademia dei Lincei (\"Academy of Lynxes\") was founded by Federico Cesi. It was one of the world's oldest scientific societies, and counted such luminaries as Galileo Galilei among its members. The academy's founders were inspired by the illustration of a lynx on the cover of \"Magia Naturalis\", and the words in the preface: \"...with lynx-like eyes, examining those things which manifest themselves, so that having observed them, he may zealously use them.\" Their emblem was a lynx battling with Cerberus, the guardian of the underworld, invoking the lynx's reputation for seeing through falsehood and discovering the truth. \n\nLynx is the name of a constellation in the northern sky, defined by Johannes Hevelius in 1687. The name is said to have been chosen because the stars which make up the constellation are so faint that only those with the eyesight of the lynx can perceive them. \n\nLaurens van der Post describes the connection between the stars and the lynx in the Bushman culture of Africa: \"In the imagination of the vanished Bushmen of my part of Africa the Morning Star was a hunter too, but it was also a person of the early race. As a person he had come down to earth, fallen in love and taken as his natural bride the Lynx, also at that time a person. This marriage of a star to a Lynx is perhaps the most inspiring example I know of the extraordinary precision of language which the first spirit forged in the fire of the imagination. If there is one animal among the multitudes shining like jewels in the grass, bush and somber forests of Africa more suitable than any other to be married to a star, it is the Lynx.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2062908", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2062908", "title": "Claudius Lysias", "text": "Claudius Lysias\n\nClaudius Lysias is a figure mentioned in the New Testament book of the Acts of the Apostles. According to , Lysias was a Roman tribune and the commander (chiliarch) of the Roman garrison (\"cohort\" ) in Jerusalem.\n\nClaudius Lysias is called \"the tribune\" (in Greek χιλίαρχος, chiliarch) 16 times within Acts 21-24 (21.31-33, 37; 22.24, 26-29; 23.10, 15, 17, 19, 22; 24.22).\n\nThe Greek term χιλίαρχος is said to be used to translate the Roman \"tribunus militum\" (following Polybius), and also for the phrase \"tribuni militares consulari potestate\" (Plutarch). The responsibilities of a χιλίαρχος were as a \"commander of a thousand men\". Essentially, Claudius Lysias is \"a high-ranking military officer in charge\" of anywhere from 600 to 1,000 men, and this appears to be the case for it is said that his command was over a \"cohort\" (σπεῖρα, \"speira\") in Jerusalem which is \"the tenth part of a Roman legion having about 600 men\" ().\n\nClaudius Lysias' complete description as found in the New Testament book of the Acts of the Apostles is \"the tribune of the cohort\" in Jerusalem, which resided in nearby \"barracks\" (Acts 21.34, 37; 22.24, 23.10, 16, 32). It takes ten cohorts to make up a legion, and each legion had six tribunes with a thousand men (\"soldiers and centurions\" ) under his command if the cohort was full; consequently, Claudius Lysias was a part of a larger military force. The exact numbers in his cohort may never be known, however he had sufficient men to spare two centurions, two hundred soldiers, seventy horsemen, and two hundred spearmen to accompany Paul to Caesarea . Furthermore, when the security detail arrives before Antipartis (), Claudius Lysias allows for the seventy horsemen to go on with him and Paul to Caesarea, the headquarters of the Procurator Felix ().\n\nThe \"barracks\" referenced in the book of Acts (21.34, 37; 22.24; 23.10, 16, 32), in connection to Claudius Lysias and his cohort are references to the Tower of Antonia, which Herod the Great rebuilt from a previous structure and named it after Marc Antony. The Antonia was added on to the NW side of the Temple facilities, \"from which stairs descend into the outer court of the temple\" (Acts 21.32, 35, 22.30). For this reason, the Roman Tribune could hear the commotion caused by the confusing riot over Paul's presence in the Temple, and respond with speed (Acts 21.27-32).\n\nThe military tribune Claudius Lysias enters the New Testament narrative when he protects Paul of Tarsus from a hostile Jewish mob on the outside of the Temple grounds in Jerusalem (Acts 21.30-32). The Acts text does not explicitly state why the tribune arrests Paul aside from asking \"who he was and what he had done\" (Acts 21.33); consequently, it appears Paul is detained for investigation as reflected later in Paul's interrogation in the Antonian barracks because he was a cause of instigation among the Jews (Acts 22.23-24).\n\nClaudius Lysias is aware of Jewish anarchistic movements, for when Paul speaking in Greek asks permission to speak to the shouting Jewish mob, the tribune appears shocked that he speaks Greek (Acts 21.37). Paul, as a controversial Greek-speaking Hebrew, evidently met some of the criterion for Lysias to conclude he was a Jewish revolutionist. Consequently, it appears that Lysias suspects him of being \"the Egyptian\" who \"stirred up a revolt and led the four thousand men of the Assassins [σικαρίων] out into the wilderness\" (). This individual operated around A.D. 53, and this revolution amounted to amassing these four thousand men, positioning themselves upon the Mount of Olives outside Jerusalem and anticipated the walls of Jerusalem to collapse at his command. The Romans attacked this band of men, the Egyptian lost six hundred men, fled into the wilderness where he disappears awaiting \"further revelation\". Evidently, \"the Egyptian\" was still on the run, wanted by the Roman military and the tribune was going to see if Paul was this anarchist.\n\nPaul was able to persuade Lysias that he was not an agitator, and provides him with his provincial citizenship as being from Tarsus, in the province of Cilicia (Acts 21.39). This was not an \"obscure city\" and either this suggests his citizenship could be authenticated, or Paul distinguished himself from the obscure Egyptian. In either case, Paul's point is clear, he is not the Egyptian; the tribune accepts Paul's case, and grants Paul an opportunity to speak the Jews on the steps of the Temple facilities adjoined to the Antonian fortress (Acts 21.39-40). The Jews did not respond peaceably to Paul's speech, and Claudius Lysias decides to take Paul into the \"barracks\" of Antonia and \"examine\" him through the process of binding him to flog him (Acts 22.22-24). On receiving a report that Paul was a Roman citizen and then making personal inquiry, Claudius is afraid of having violated the rights of a Roman by having him bound (see \"Roman Citizenship\" below). Claudius desires to arrive at the truth concerning the Jewish case against Paul, and commands the Sanhedrin to assemble. Dissension among the Sanhedrin towards Paul arises again, and causes Claudius Lysias to order his men to take Paul to the safety of the Antonian barracks (Acts 22.30-23.10). \n\nUpon learning of a plot to kill Paul, Claudius Lysias summoned two of his army officers and commanded them to get ready 200 soldiers, 70 horsemen, and 200 spearmen to leave for Caesarea Maritima. In compliance with Roman law, he also sent a statement of the case to the procurator Antonius Felix. The letter reads:\n\nThe letter format is consistent with the general format in the Graeco-Roman world, of \"author\" to \"recipient\" with a \"greeting\" with the subsequent content of the reason for the letter. This letter, however, was not altogether factual. It \"is an interesting specimen of Roman military correspondence\" (). Although acknowledging Paul's innocence, Claudius Lysias gave the impression that he had rescued Paul because of having learned that the apostle was a Roman, whereas in reality he had violated Paul's citizenship rights by having him bound and even ordering that he be examined under scourgings. As to the disciple Luke's knowledge of the letter's contents, it may be that the letter itself was read at the time Paul's case was heard.\n\nThe Center for the Study of New Testament Manuscripts digitally houses photographs of Bezae NT 1588, and the following links displays Claudius Lysias' letter to Felix: ]\n\nHe obtained his Roman citizenship by purchase, and was therefore probably a Greek. (Acts 22:28).\n\nIn , a discussion between Paul and Claudius emerges on the topic of Roman citizenship. Part of Claudius' investigation procedure to find out more information was to stretch out the detained for whips and flog them.\n\nBefore his flogging begins, Paul questions the centurion given this detail, \"Is it lawful for you to flog a man who is a Roman citizen and uncondemned?\" (Acts 22.25). Roman citizenship had a number of privileges, as John Polhill writes:\nIt was such a valued honor, that some people risked the death penalty given for falsely claiming citizenship. One could hold dual citizenship, as Paul was not only a citizen of the city of Rome, but he was also a citizen of the city of Tarsus from the province of Cilicia (Acts 21.39; 23.34).\n\nRoman citizenship was conferred in a number of ways. (1) The most common way was being born from two Roman citizens. This is the claim Paul makes when asked how he obtained his citizenship (\"I am a citizen by birth\" Acts 22.28), which implies that both of Paul's parents were Jewish Roman citizens (cf. #4). (2) One could obtain citizenship as a reward for military service. Regularly, military veterans were given citizenship upon discharge. This was the surest way to get it, taking 20 to 25 years depending of level of ranking. (3) Imperial conference, though heard of, was not entirely common. Nevertheless, the emperor could confer citizenship, either on individuals or on whole communities, as in the establishment of a new colony. Often the result of doing some loyal service to Rome. Also, many times through these services, one gained an audience with the Emperor though expensive gifts to members of the inner Imperial court. This may have been how the Tribune Claudius Lysias gained his citizenship (Acts 22.27-28). In fact, the tribune's name provides evidence to assume the plausibility that the Emperor Claudius (A.D. 41 - A.D. 54) conferred upon Lysias citizenship since those granted this honor would bear the name (the \"nomen\") of the family or patron which conferred it; hence, Lysias gained the name of his patron Claudius. It has been noted that the emperor was quite \"promiscuous\" in his conference of citizenship. (4) Roman citizenship was also conferred through emancipation of a slave from the house of a Roman citizen. Some have suggested that Paul’s ancestors may have been freedmen from among the thousands of Jews who Pompey took as slaves in 63 B.C.\n"}
{"id": "2062911", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2062911", "title": "Volodymyr Sichynskyi", "text": "Volodymyr Sichynskyi\n\nVolodymyr Sichynskyi (June 24, 1894 – June 25, 1962) was a Ukrainian émigré architect, graphic artist, and art historian.\n\nVolodymyr Sichynskyi was born to the family of Ievtym Sitsinskyi in Kamianets-Podilskyi, Podolia guberniya, \nRussia, which is in present-day Ukraine.\n\nHe graduated from the Kamianets Technical School in 1912, and then continued his studies at the St. Petersburg Institute of Civil Engineers (1912-1917) and at Charles University in Prague (1924-1927). During the interim between St. Petersburg and Prague, he taught at the Kamianets Gymnasium (1918–1919), helped organize the Architectural Institute in Kiev (1918-1919) and served as director of the construction department of the Podolia Governorate.\n\nAfter fleeing from Soviet rule to Lviv, he taught at the Academic Gymnasium there (1921–1923) and then moved to Prague. In Prague, he worked on his doctoral degree, taught at the art-school \"Studio\" (1923-1945), and served as a lecturer of the history of art at the Ukrainian Higher Pedagogical Institute (1923-1933). He received his Ph.D. and was promoted to the rank of professor on October 5, 1927.\n\nHe also chaired the Library and Bibliographic Commission of the Ukrainian Society of Bibliophiles in Prague from 1927 and served as the society's president (1934–1943). In 1930 he co-founded the Association of Independent Ukrainian Artists in Lviv. From 1930 he was also a full member of the Shevchenko Scientific Society in Lviv. Sichynskyi was appointed an assistant professor of art history on January 25, 1940, at the Ukrainian Free University, and then was promoted to associate professor on March 22, 1942.\n\nFrom 1943 to 1945, he was imprisoned and tortured by the Gestapo in Prague and in Berlin. A postwar refugee in Germany, in 1949 he emigrated to the United States where he continued to teach at the Ukrainian Technical Institute in New York City. He died on June 25, 1962 in Paterson, New Jersey, aged 68.\n\nIn addition to teaching, Sichynskyi worked as an architect designing churches, schools, and many private and public buildings in Ukraine, Slovakia, Brazil, Canada, and the United States. He designed the Redemptorist Church of the Holy Spirit in Michalovce (1933-1934) and the Boiko-style wooden Church of the Nativity of the Mother of God in Nizny Komarnik, just south of the Dukla mountain pass (1937), both in Slovakia; the Ukrainian churches in Whippany, New Jersey (1949), and Pôrto Uniao, Brazil (1951); and the Orthodox cathedral in Montreal (1957).\n\nSichynskyi published over 500 articles, books, and reviews. He is the author of works on Ukrainian art, culture, architecture, engraving and printing, industry, and foreign sources on the history of Ukraine. Two bio-bibliographies of Sichynskyi have been published:\n\nIn addition, proceedings of a conference devoted to Sichynskyi have been published under the editorship of Viacheslav Kolomiiets in Kiev in 1996.\n\n"}
{"id": "2062912", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2062912", "title": "Alan Leong", "text": "Alan Leong\n\nAlan Leong Kah-kit (; born 22 February 1958), SC is a former member of the Hong Kong Legislative Council, representing the Kowloon East geographical constituency, and the sitting-Chairman of the Civic Party. He was also vice-chairperson of the Independent Police Complaints Council.\n\nLeong graduated with an LLB from the University of Hong Kong and an LLM from Hughes Hall, University of Cambridge. He was chairman of Hong Kong Bar Association from 2001 to 2003.\n\nAs chairperson of Hong Kong Bar Association, he mobilised many barristers to participate in the July 1 protests. He won a seat in the Legislative Council in the 2004 election.\n\nIn January 2011, Leong was elected the second leader of the Civic Party, replacing Audrey Eu.\n\nLeong was nominated by the Civic Party as its party candidate for the Chief Executive election in 2007. He was also supported by the pan-democrats, including the Democratic Party.\n\nLeong later secured 132 nominations and became the first Pan-democracy camp candidate to succeed in joining the Chief Executive election. In the end Leong lost to Donald Tsang in the CE election on 25 March 2007, gaining 123 votes from the 800-member Election Committee.\n\nIn January 2010, Leong and other four lawmakers, Albert Chan, Tanya Chan, Leung Kwok-hung and Wong Yuk-man resigned their seats to force by-elections, in which they all stood, which they called on to be treated as a referendum to press the Chinese Central Government into allowing universal suffrage in Hong Kong. On 16 May 2010, he was re-elected as a lawmaker in the by-election.\n\nLeong is married with three children.\n\n"}
{"id": "2062916", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2062916", "title": "Kym Marsh", "text": "Kym Marsh\n\nKimberley Gail Marsh (formerly Ryder and Lomas; born 13 June 1976) is an English actress, presenter and former singer-songwriter, who rose to fame in 2001 after winning a place in the band Hear'Say, as a result of appearing on the reality television series \"Popstars\". Hear'Say enjoyed brief success, achieving two UK number one singles and a UK number one album, but Marsh left the band in 2002 to pursue a solo career. She released an album titled \"Standing Tall\" in 2003, which peaked at number nine in the UK and spawned two UK top ten singles.\n\nFrom April 2006 to December 2019, she portrayed Michelle Connor on the ITV soap opera \"Coronation Street\". She was named Best Newcomer at the 2007 British Soap Awards and the 2007 National Television Awards, and received the award for Best Female Dramatic Performance at the 2017 British Soap Awards. In 2010, she finished fourth when she competed on \"Popstar to Operastar\", a reality show featuring well-known pop stars being trained to sing opera.\n\nMarsh was born on 13 June 1976 in Whiston, Merseyside to Pauline, and David Marsh. She attended the Elliot Clarke Stage School in Liverpool for two years, leaving when she was 15.\n\nAt age 16, Marsh appeared in the music video of Dusty Springfield's \"In Private\".\n\nMarsh provided session vocals for artists including Matt Darey, the group Freaky Realistic and the duo Hemstock & Jennings. She sang in Norwegian on the latter's track \"Arctic\", which caught the attention of Paul van Dyk, and was remixed and re-recorded with additional vocals from Jan Johnston. The track, renamed \"Nothing But You\", was released in the UK via Positiva and reached number 14 in the UK charts.\n\nIn late 2000, Marsh auditioned for the ITV talent show \"Popstars\". She was one of the five singers chosen for the newly formed band Hear'Say, along with Danny Foster, Myleene Klass, Suzanne Shaw and Noel Sullivan. In March 2001, Hear'Say released their first single \"Pure and Simple\", a cover of a track by Girl Thing. She was hailed by her girl bandmates as the funniest out of the bunch’. The song went straight to number 1 on the UK Singles Chart in March 2001, selling just under 550,000 copies. The group then released their second single, \"The Way to Your Love,\" in June 2001. The song became their second consecutive number 1 single. Shortly afterwards the group toured the UK.\n\nIn January 2002, Marsh announced that she was leaving Hear'Say. Auditions were held to find a replacement for her, but the group split up in October 2002.\n\nAfter a while out of the spotlight Marsh signed a solo record deal with Island Records. Her first single, \"Cry\", went to number 2 in the UK Singles Chart and her second single, \"Come on Over,\" made it to number 10.\n\nIn July 2003, Marsh released her debut solo album, \"Standing Tall\", which peaked at number 9 in the UK. It contained three solo singles and twelve other tracks. However, her make-or-break third single, \"Sentimental\", stalled at number 35, and that resulted in her being dropped by her record label.\n\nMarsh has said that she would like to return to music one day, but \"Right now I'm focusing on \"Corrie\" and I am putting all my effort into it.\"\n\nIn early 2006, Marsh entered \"Making Your Mind Up\", a show intended to pick a singer and a song for the UK entry in the Eurovision Song Contest. With a song, called \"Whisper to Me\", Marsh came fourth in the contest, which was won by Daz Sampson.\n\nMarsh made her television acting debut in 2005, in an episode of the BBC One soap opera \"Doctors\", playing a character called Ruth Parry. That same year, she also became a regular panellist on ITV's daytime show \"Loose Women\" for its eighth season.\n\nIn 2006, she played prostitute Kay Price in the first 2 episodes of Channel 4's soap opera \"\".\n\nOn 14 December 2008, she appeared as a presenter on \"The X Factor\" final. She presented for Alexandra Burke in North London, Burke's home town. Burke went on to win the show.\n\nMarsh joined the cast of \"Coronation Street\", playing Michelle Connor from 3 April 2006 onwards. For her role on the show she has subsequently received Newcomer awards at the 2007 British Soap Awards and the 2007 National Television Awards, among others. Becoming a regular character, her storylines have included a serious relationship with Steve McDonald (Simon Gregson), discovering that her son had been swapped at birth, the death of her eldest brother Paul (Sean Gallagher) and the murder of her other brother Liam (Rob James-Collier), her failed engagement to Ciaran McCarthy (Keith Duffy), surviving a minibus crash, becoming pregnant with Steve's baby, learning that Steve has also impregnated Leanne Battersby (Jane Danson), delivering a stillborn son Ruairi and being stalked by her ex-boyfriend Will (Leon Ockenden). Other storylines have focused on the relationships with her sisters-in-law, Carla (Alison King) and Maria (Samia Ghadie), as well as her relationship with Robert Preston (Tristan Gemmill) after the collapse of her marriage to Steve.\n\nIn 2008, as the character dominated more storylines, some fans began to tire of her as well as her behaviour. The baby-swap storyline, which Michelle was central to, was largely panned by both fans and critics, columnist Grace Dent said of the plot; \"...It feels like something ripped from a copy of \"Pick Me Up\" magazine and read to me laboriously over 22 weeks\". In contrast, the 2017 stillbirth storyline as well as Marsh's performance received rave reviews and were praised by the Stillbirth and Neonatal Death Society (SANDS). Marsh, whose real-life son Archie was also stillborn, explained that it was important for her to take on the storyline in order to raise awareness of the issue. She also voiced for the change in law which would see stillborn children receive birth certificates. The actress also stated it was \"the best way to honour\" her son. She later won the 2017 British Soap Award for Best Female Dramatic Performance.\n\nOn 24 February 2019, it was announced that Marsh would be leaving the soap after 13 years.\n\nIn January 2010, Marsh participated in the first series of \"Popstar to Operastar\". She was voted out in the fifth week, along with Marcella Detroit, after receiving 13.5% of all public votes.\n\nMarsh has a son named David (born 1995) and a daughter named Emilie (born 1997) from a relationship with Dave Cunliffe. The actress married the actor Jack Ryder in St Albans, Hertfordshire, on 10 August 2002. It was announced on 20 March 2008 that the couple had decided to separate and would be seeking a divorce and they announced their divorce on 12 August 2009.\n\nMarsh dated the actor Jamie Lomas from July 2008 onwards. They married in Cheshire in September 2012. She and Lomas announced that they were expecting a baby in 2009. Their son, Archie Jay Lomas, was born 18 weeks early on 11 February and died moments after birth. Marsh stated that \"Archie is our beautiful angel and we will miss him so much. Thank you all for your support.\" On 23 March 2011 Marsh gave birth to a daughter, Polly.\n\nOn 3 October 2012, Marsh announced that she would be known, not as Kym Marsh, but as Kym Lomas.\n\nIn May 2017, a wax figure of her was added to the gallery of Madame Tussauds Blackpool.\n\nIn May 2019, she became a grandmother, when her daughter Emilie gave birth to a baby boy.\n\n"}
{"id": "2062917", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2062917", "title": "Adrian Brown (musician)", "text": "Adrian Brown (musician)\n\nAdrian Brown (born 1949) is a British conductor. He is a proponent of contemporary music and has several first performances to his credit.\n\nHe was educated at Northgate Grammar School for Boys in Ipswich, Suffolk, and was a pupil of the conductor Sir Adrian Boult. After graduating from the Royal Academy of Music in London, he studied intensively with Sir Adrian for some years. He remains the only British conductor to have reached the finals of the Herbert von Karajan International Conducting Competition in Berlin,: in fact, the Berlin Philharmonic was the first professional orchestra he conducted. Sir Adrian wrote: 'He has always impressed me as a musician of exceptional attainments who has all the right gifts and ideas to make him a first-class conductor.'\n\nIn 1992 Adrian Brown was engaged to conduct the Saint Petersburg Philharmonic Orchestra. In 1998 Sir Roger Norrington recommended him to conduct the Camerata Salzburg, one of Europe's foremost chamber orchestras. In addition, Adrian has conducted many leading British orchestras including the City of Birmingham Symphony Orchestra, the BBC Symphony Orchestra, the BBC Scottish Symphony Orchestra and the London Sinfonietta.\n\nIn 1972 Adrian was appointed Music Director of Stoneleigh Youth Orchestra a position from which he stood down in March 2013 after 40 years. In honour of this, a Celebratory Concert was held in Cadogan Hall on the 24th of that month. It is felt he has made some contribution to the musical education of quite a few youngsters over a long period. Working with young musicians has also been an area where Adrian Brown has made a valuable contribution to British musical life, as well as in Europe, Japan and the Philippines. He has frequently conducted both the National Youth Orchestra of Great Britain (working closely with Sir Colin Davis and Sir Roger Norrington) and the National Youth Wind Orchestra. He regularly runs courses for young musicians, coaches gifted young conductors and was given the Novello Award for Youth Orchestras at the 1989 Edinburgh Festival.\n\nHe has returned to conduct at the Royal Academy of Music and regularly been selected as chairman of the jury for the National Association of Youth Orchestras' Conducting Competition. In 1996 he was flown to Japan to work with the Toyama Toho Academy Orchestra, a visit that was received with much acclaim from all those with whom he worked.\n\nHis many most memorable engagements have included Tippett's 'A Child of Our Time', Verdi's Requiem and almost the entire oeuvre of Berlioz, Elgar and Vaughan Williams, all much admired. He received rave reviews in 'The Guardian' for a performance of Strauss's Feuersnot with the Chelsea Opera Group and for his Ein Heldenleben. He has performed successful concerts with the Salomon Orchestra, returning to them in February 2005 for a Concert at St. John's, Smith Square, performing British music including Tippett's Concerto for Orchestra, to acclamation.\n\nBetween 2005 and 2008, Adrian Brown conducted many concerts of music celebrating the centenary of Sir Michael Tippett, and joined the panel of jury members of Music for Youth, as well as accepting invitations to perform with the Isle of Wight Symphony, Bromley Ecumenical Singers, and the Hertfordshire Philharmonia, as well as conducting in Dresden and Prague.\n\nThis period also included performances of Shostakovich with Suffolk Sinfonia in St Edmundsbury Cathedral and LSO St. Lukes; a return to Elgar/Payne Symphony No.3 in a concert of Anthony Payne's work; while the climax of the Bromley Symphony Season was a stunning Mahler Third Symphony. He conducted tours including Provence and Salzburg for a Mozart Festival, concerts in Snape Maltings celebrating the Elgar Anniversary, and a performance of Hansel und Gretel. He was also appointed conductor of Southgate Symphony.\n\nIn his 60th Birthday Year, 2009, Adrian was appointed Music Director of Huntingdonshire Philharmonic and conducted works with many orchestras on a 'celebration wish list' including Sibelius's Fourth, Mahler's Ninth, and Elgar's First symphonies. He also had a major success conducting the Lithuanian State Symphony Orchestra in Vilnius in a nationally broadcast concert. Bromley Symphony honoured him with a 30th Anniversary/60th Birthday concert in November, where he was presented with a Vaughan Williams autograph letter.\n\n2010 he conducted some forty concerts including an acclaimed performance of Elgar's 'The Dream of Gerontius' in Ely Cathedral, Elgar's Enigma Variations in Girona Cathedral, a stunning debut with the Corinthian Orchestra in Central London and an important lecture to the Berlioz Society where his CD recording from Lithuania of the Berlioz Symphonie fantastique was much admired as one of the best interpretations.\n\n2010–11 included a return for two concerts with the Corinthian Chamber Orchestra, one being in the Queen Elizabeth Hall in June. Programmes of Elgar and of Rachmaninov, the Third Symphony, were received with critical and audience acclaim. Adrian has since been invited to be joint principal conductor of the Corinthian Orchestra. Many concerts in Huntingdon, Bromley and London have included admired readings of 'Gerontius', Mendelssohn's 'Elijah', Sibelius, Nielsen's Fifth and the centenaries of 'Petrushka' and Elgar's Second Symphony. Bromley Symphony celebrated the Mahler Anniversaries of his birth and death with his Fifth Symphony. Waveney Sinfonia presented a special concert of Vaughan Williams and Elgar and Adrian conducted Concerts at the Royal Academy of Music and Royal College of Music with Stoneleigh Youth.\n\nThe 2011–12 Season saw three concerts with the Corinthian Chamber Orchestra performing Elgar's First Symphony in May again on the South Bank. This was an amazing success, endorsing opinions that Adrian is a major Elgar Conductor. Bromley Symphony had already enjoyed this understanding with Elgar's Violin Concerto and Sasha Rozdestvensky as soloist. Other works in the repertoire were Mahler's First, Berlioz Fantastique, the Mozart and Brahms Requiems. A Jubilee Concert in Ely Cathedral in June presenting Elgar's Coronation Ode and Berlioz's Te Deum and a similar sell-out Concert with Southgate Symphony ended the season on a patriotic high. Concerts for 2012–13 included one work at least of Britten for the Centenary with every orchestra, appropriate for Suffolk born and bred Adrian. One such instance was a triumphant return to the Salomon Orchestra in February 2013 conducting Sinfonia da Requiem in St John's Smith Square. He performed Britten Songs in the birthplace, Lowestoft, with Waveney Sinfonia, the Violin Concerto conducting the Corinthian Chamber Orchestra in St James', Piccadilly in May and the 'Grimes' 'Sea Interludes' with Hunts Philharmonic. In Bromley, Bruckner's Eighth and the Elgar Cello Concerto with Jamie Walton were highlights. Perhaps though the most moving performance was Tippett's 'A Child of Our Time' with Hunts Philharmonic in 'Memory of A Dear Friend, Sir Colin Davis'. The season ended with a cherished dream; preparation for a performance of Berlioz, 'Les Troyens' which commenced in Summer 2013.\n\n2013 saw Adrian retire from Stoneleigh Youth Orchestra and honoured with being one of three National Figures nominated for a Lifetime Achievement Award by 'Music Teacher' and Classic FM. The season included concerts with Corinthian Orchestra in the Queen Elizabeth Hall, Act I of Wagner's 'Walküre' with Janice Watson, more Britten for the Centenary and Verdi's Requiem with Hunts Philharmonic. He was much admired for the AT Shaw lecture to the Elgar Society in June on the subject of Elgar's 'The Spirit of England'. In the summer of 2013 he was awarded the 'Making Music' NFMS Lady Hilary Groves Prize for services to Community Music, a much appreciated and admired honour.\n\nThe 2014–15 Season included a return to the Royal Orchestral Society after a much praised Concert in 2014 and a 35th Season with Bromley Symphony conducting Elgar's First and Mahler's Seventh amongst a varied programme. His on-going success with the Southgate Orchestra saw an 'Eroica' and the César Franck Symphonie. Two Concerts with the Corinthian Orchestra took place in St. James' Piccadilly and he carried on his devoted and much loved work with Waveney Sinfonia and performed with Huntingdon Philharmonic where he gave a Concert marking the outbreak of World War I, conducting 'The Spirit of England' and Vaughan Williams. Adrian also gave a lecture to the Berlioz Society and another on the subject of his teacher, Sir Adrian Boult, to the Elgar Society. He completed his project of performing Berlioz's 'Les Troyens'.\n\nThe 2015–16 Season included a performance in St John's Smith Square of Elgar's 'The Dream of Gerontius' with the Royal Orchestral, Sibelius 4th and Bruckner 9th Symphonies with Bromley Symphony and a continuing association with the Corinthian Orchestra giving concerts in London. A major event was a performance of the Delius Cello Concerto with Daniel Benn and the Elgar/Payne Third Symphony both with Southgate Symphony, an orchestra growing in expertise and reputation.\n\nFuture plans include a performance of Vaughan Williams' 'Pastoral Symphony' with the Corinthian Orchestra, and the Centenary Season with Bromley Symphony during which also the Centenary of 'The Planets' by Holst will be celebrated; premiered by Sir Adrian Boult, Adrian's Teacher and conducted by that pupil 100 years later. Adrian returns to St John's Smith Square in June conducting a concert with the Royal Orchestral. He also 'goes home' to Ipswich to direct the Trianon Music Group. A major event is a special programme with Waveney Sinfonia in Suffolk performing Elgar's Enigma Variations and Dvořák's Cello Concerto with Daniel Benn. Another is celebrating ten great years with Southgate Symphony Orchestra in July playing Sibelius Second Symphony and Elgar's 'Sea Pictures' with Janice Watson.\n\nAdrian Brown was one of a hundred musicians presented with a Classic FM Award at their Tenth Birthday Honours Celebration in June 2002.\n"}
{"id": "2062920", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2062920", "title": "Casper Yost", "text": "Casper Yost\n\nCasper Salathiel Yost (1864–1941) was the longtime editor of the \"St. Louis Globe-Democrat.\"\n\nYost was born in Sedalia, Missouri on July 1, 1854. His parents were George Casper Yost and Sarah Elizabeth Roberts Yost. \n\nYost apprenticed as a printer and a writer. He moved to St. Louis in 1881 and worked as a reporter on the \"St. Louis Chronicle.\" He worked as a telegraph operator on the railroads until 1885 in Richland, Missouri. Later that year, Yost moved back to St. Louis and returned to his journalism career. He began working as a reporter on the \"Missouri Republican\", where he stayed for three years.\n\nYost began working at the \"St. Louis Globe-Democrat\" in 1889 and remained with the paper for fifty years. He was the founder of the American Society of Newspaper Editors and was influential in developing its code of ethics. Yost helped create the organization to enhance \"the integrity of the profession\" in response to criticism that journalism was only for entertainment and profits. After Frederick Allen's critique of the integrity of jazz-age journalists in the January 1922 issue of \"Atlantic Monthly,\" Yost called a meeting of like minded editors which lead to the creation of ASNE. He sent letters to editors throughout the country suggesting the creation of a national society, and in March 1922, editors from many major newspapers met in Chicago. These some of these included the editors of the \"Chicago Tribune\", the \"Chicago Daily News\", the \"Detroit News\", and the \"Cleveland Plain Dealer\", among many others. Yost was chosen as chairman and E.C. Hopwood of the \"Cleveland Plain Dealer\" was elected secretary. On April 25, 1922, the group met again at the Waldorf-Astoria, with additional newspaper editors and were set to craft a tentative constitution and solidify their organization. In a letter to his wife, Anna, Yost wrote that creating ASNE was \"the greatest thing ever done for journalism.\"\n\nYost was also a prominent member of the St. Louis Civitan Club, serving as president of the board of governors for many years before his death.\n\nIn 1916 Yost published what he called “…facts in relation to some phenomena …” related to the “occult manifestations” of Patience Worth, a spirit entity channeled by Pearl Curran from 1913 through 1937. This book, titled \"Patience Worth: A Psychic Mystery\" brought the novels, plays, and poems of Patience Worth to the attention of the general public. Worth also dictated colors and cover designs to her publisher. When asked if Pearl Curran's photo should be included in the book, Worth replied \"She be but the pot.\" Yost was invited to attend Curran's sessions with Patience Worth and soon became an editor of Worth's messages and an advocate for channeling the spirit. At times, Worth generated 2,000 words per hour. Yost spurred curiosity amongst \"Globe\" readers by publishing stories such as \"The Fool and the Lady\" and \"The Stranger,\" both published in February 1915. Yost, along with Pearl Curran and her husband, John Curran, published \"Patience Worth's Magazine\" from August 1917 to May 1918. The magazine published selections allegedly composed by Patience Worth, including poetry, short fiction, and commentary on public issues, celebrities, and worldly mysteries. Yost also edited the book \"The Sorry Tale: A Story of the Time of Christ\" attributed to Patience Worth and communicated through Pearl Curran, published in 1917.\n\nCasper Yost was married to Anna Augusta Parrott Yost. The two had eight children: Casper, John, Henry, Philip, Anna Elizabeth, Margaret, Anna, and Susannah.\n\nCasper Yost died in St. Louis. He was seventy-seven year old. \n\nAs well as writing for newspapers, Yost was also a poet. One of his poems, \"Our Destiny,\" became well known after President McKinley quoted it in one of his speeches. The liberty ship SS Casper S. Yost, launched in 1944, was named for him. Yost also received academic honorary degrees from Lincoln Memorial University in 1926, McKendree College in 1926, and the University of Missouri in 1934. In 1940, he received a Doctor of Literature degree from Culver-Stockton. In 1936, Yost was given the national award for scholarship in journalism from Sigma Delta Chi, a national journalism fraternity.\n\n"}
{"id": "2062926", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2062926", "title": "Space Frontier Foundation", "text": "Space Frontier Foundation\n\nThe Space Frontier Foundation is an American space advocacy nonprofit corporation organized to promote the interests of increased involvement of the private sector, in collaboration with government, in the exploration and development of space. Its advocate members design and lead a collection of projects with goals that align to the organization's goals as described by its credo.\n\nThe Foundation was founded in 1988 by space activists led by Rick Tumlinson, Bob Werb and Jim Muncy who felt that:\n\"it was technically possible to realize their shared vision of large-scale...settlement of the inner solar system... [but] they knew this was not happening (and couldn't happen) under the status-quo centrally planned and exclusive U.S. government space program.\"\nSince 2005 the Foundation has relied heavily on NASA funding including a recent $110,000 award for business competition. Thomas Olson appeared on The Space Show to promote the competition. The competition takes place during the Foundation's New-Space 12 conference, which is sponsored by NASA.\n\nThe Foundation supported the George W. Bush Administration's Vision for Space Exploration. In March, 2005, the Foundation praised the selection of Dr. Michael Griffin as the next administrator of NASA. A press release said \"Mike Griffin will be a good captain for NASA.\" Bob Werb, the Foundation Chairman, said \"Mike Griffin knows more about space and capitalism than the last three administrators combined. Vision-killing bureaucrats inside and outside of government should be trembling in their boots.\" Richard Tumlinson said, \"This bodes well for the emerging New Space industry.\"\n\nIn recent years, the Space Frontier Foundation has been supportive of various private sector efforts such as the Ansari X Prize, the SpaceShipOne project, and entrepreneur Robert Bigelow's plans to build a space hotel. The Foundation has been critical of the U.S. government's efforts in space, particularly those of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration. For example, the Foundation has criticized NASA's Space Shuttle and Ares I, claiming that the shuttle's work could be better done by private sector companies. However, the Foundation has supported some recent NASA efforts, such as NASA's Centennial Challenges prize program for stimulating private-sector innovation and the new NASA direction of cancelling Constellation in favour of technology development and supporting commercial companies.\n\nThe Foundation's current strategic focus is to enable the growth of the NewSpace community. The Foundation's Board of Directors has endorsed the following objectives:\n\n\nThe Foundation is a founding executive member of the Alliance for Space Development.\n\nThe Foundation's membership is composed of volunteers who typically fall into one of two groups. The regular members are those who provide a large amount of the volunteer work necessary to operate the projects that support the conferences and many other less obvious processes associated with a corporate office. Regular members donate time and money as they can in accordance with other demands upon them. Advocate members are those who are invited to step to the next level and help run the projects, start new ones, and fund the Foundation's activities. Advocates are those who have demonstrated a high degree of understanding and commitment to the Foundation's goals along with a track record of action toward these goals. Advocates are asked to donate more time and money on a regular basis and are the voting members that decide elections for the Foundation's Board of Directors.\nProjects are the primary means by which the Foundation acts in support of its goals. Projects are advocate managed activities with their own objectives, budgets, and volunteer support teams. Each project pursues what its members think they can accomplish using the skills they have. Advocates working each project assume the responsibility for keeping them aligned with Foundation objectives as best they can. This mostly decentralized approach to action is intentional and a core tradition of the Foundation.\n\nPast projects include The Watch, an asteroid and comet detection and research project, Permission to Dream, connecting students around the world through the wonder of space and astronomy, sponsorship of conferences, and the Space Settlement Project in marketing space to the general public. Current projects include Teachers in Space, a program to offer American teachers rides on future sub-orbital spaceflight launches.\n\nFurthermore, the Foundation hosts its annual \"NewSpace\" conference every year in July, which enables NewSpace leaders to meet and collaborate regarding the future of the movement.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2062931", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2062931", "title": "Texas's 11th congressional district", "text": "Texas's 11th congressional district\n\nTexas's 11th congressional district of the United States House of Representatives is in the midwestern portion of the state of Texas. The current Representative from the 11th district is Mike Conaway.\n\nTexas has had at least 11 districts since 1883. Major cities in the district are Andrews, Midland, Odessa, San Angelo, Granbury, and Brownwood.\n\nFrom 1903-2005 the district was based in central Texas and contained Waco.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2062940", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2062940", "title": "The Burning Red", "text": "The Burning Red\n\nThe Burning Red is the third studio album by the American groove metal band Machine Head. It is the band's second best selling album in the US, selling as many copies in three years as \"Burn My Eyes\" sold in almost eight years . The album has sold over 134,000 copies in the US and it was certified silver in 2011 by the BPI for sales of 60,000 in the UK.\n\nMachine Head guitarist Logan Mader quit the band in 1998 following the recording of their album \"The More Things Change...\" (according to the official Machine Head Facebook Page he wrote the main riff of I Defy before his departure); he was replaced by Ahrue Luster. With the recording of \"The Burning Red\", the band added new elements to its music, including a small amount of rapping vocals, a move which some believe to have been influenced by Luster himself. The album shows the band experimenting musically, using a disco drum line in \"The Blood, The Sweat, The Tears\", putting some rapping vocals in \"Desire To Fire\", and a layer of crooning vocals on \"Silver\". Citing the need for a few B-side tracks, producer Ross Robinson encouraged the band to record a smooth-sounding cover of the Police song \"Message in a Bottle\" after hearing Robb Flynn experiment with it during rehearsal. The song ended up on the album, not used as a B-side. Joel McIver said that anyone dismissing the album as nu metal has not listened to it, or is not a fan of the \"atmospheric, impassioned groove-metal that Machine Head were focusing on at this stage.\" Rick Anderson of AllMusic called the album \"aggro-metal\". Responding to critics, McClain stated the band was not trying to emulate popular trends; they simply \"wanted to sound different\". Flynn said that the band had been pigeonholed by those who complained that the two prior albums were too similar to each other, so the band had determined to reach for different influences on this project.\n\nAmy Sciaretto of \"CMJ\" said that, despite the presence of Robinson who had produced Limp Bizkit and Korn, \"The Burning Red\" shows the progression of Machine Head's own \"visceral, gut-grinding\" sound rather than an imitation of Korn.\n\nThe song \"Five\" is about a sexual abuse incident Flynn suffered as a five-year-old child. Flynn said that recording the song was difficult enough for him; he would never perform it on stage.\n\nThe album was added to US radio playlists on July 12, 1999, and it was released for retail sale on July 27. \"The Burning Red\" was well received by critics, and it sold well, but the band's change in image and musical direction was highly criticized, with critics and fans alike accusing the band of \"selling out\". However, Rick Anderson of AllMusic was among those who praised the album, stating Machine Head was \"sounding a bit looser and less constricted musically than they have in the past\". David Jarman wrote for \"CMJ\" that the album was \"pretty much aggro business-as-usual\" for fans who were already familiar with the \"aggression and alienation\" of late-1990s metal musical trends, but that listeners could expect to revel in the album's \"thunderous visceral crunch.\" \"The Burning Red\" became Machine Head's top selling album for a number of years, and debuted at number 88 on the \"Billboard\" 200.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2062944", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2062944", "title": "Sad Cypress", "text": "Sad Cypress\n\nSad Cypress is a work of detective fiction by British writer Agatha Christie, first published in the UK by the Collins Crime Club in March 1940 and in the US by Dodd, Mead and Company later in the same year. The UK edition retailed at eight shillings and threepence (8/3) – the first price rise for a UK Christie edition since her 1921 debut – and the US edition retailed at $2.00.\n\nThe novel was the first novel in the Poirot series set at least partly in the courtroom, with lawyers and witnesses exposing the facts underlying Poirot's solution to the crimes. The title is drawn from a song in Shakespeare's play \"Twelfth Night\".\n\nThe novel was well received at publication. One reviewer remarked \"it is economically written, the clues are placed before the reader with impeccable fairness, the red herrings are deftly laid and the solution will cause many readers to kick themselves.\" Another reviewer found the story to be well told, but did not like that the plot \"turns on a legal point\" that is misconceived. A later review described it as \"Elegiac, more emotionally involving than is usual in Christie, but the ingenuity and superb clueing put it among the very best of the classic titles.\"\n\nElinor Carlisle and Roddy Welman are engaged to be married when she receives an anonymous letter claiming that someone is \"sucking up\" to their wealthy aunt, Laura Welman, from whom Elinor and Roddy expect to inherit a sizeable fortune. Elinor is niece to Mrs Welman, while Roddy is nephew to her late husband. Elinor suspects Mary Gerrard as the topic of the anonymous letter, the lodgekeeper's daughter, whom their aunt likes and supports. Neither guesses who wrote the letter, which is burned. They visit their aunt at Hunterbury. Roddy sees Mary Gerrard for the first time in a decade. Mrs Welman is partially paralyzed after a stroke and dislikes living that way. She tells both her physician Peter Lord and her niece how much she dislikes living without full health, wishing the doctor might end her pain, which he refuses to do. Roddy falls in love with Mary; this provokes Elinor to end their engagement. After a second stroke, Mrs Welman asks Elinor to make provision for Mary. Elinor assumes there is a will her aunt wants modified. Mrs Welman dies before Elinor can call the solicitor. There is no will. She dies intestate, so her considerable estate goes to Elinor outright as her only known surviving blood relative.\n\nElinor settles two thousand pounds on Mary, which Mary accepts. Elinor sells the house she inherited. Mary dies of morphine poisoning at an impromptu lunch at Hunterbury, as Elinor, at the house, and Mary with Nurse Hopkins, at the lodge, are clearing out private possessions. Everyone at the house had access to the morphine Nurse Hopkins claimed to have lost at Hunterbury while Mrs Welman was ill. Elinor is arrested. Later, after the body is exhumed, it is learned that her aunt died of morphine poisoning. Peter Lord, in love with Elinor, brings Poirot into the case. Poirot speaks to everyone in the village. He uncovers a second suspect when Roddy tells him of the anonymous letter - the writer of that letter. Poirot then focuses on a few elements. Was the poison in the sandwiches made by Elinor, which all three ate, or in the tea prepared by Nurse Hopkins and drunk by Mary and Hopkins, but not by Elinor? What is the secret of Mary's birth? Is there any significance in the scratch of a rose thorn on Hopkins's wrist? The denouement is revealed mainly in the court, as the defence lawyer brings witnesses who reveal what Poirot uncovers.\n\nA torn pharmaceutical label that the prosecution says is from morphine hydrochloride, the poison, is rather a scrap from a label for apomorphine hydrochloride, an emetic, made clear because the m was lower case. The letters Apo had been torn off. Nurse Hopkins had injected herself with the emetic, to vomit the poison that she would ingest in the tea, explaining the mark on her wrist – not from a rose tree that is a thornless variety, Zephirine Drouhin. She went to wash dishes that fateful day for privacy as she vomited, looking pale when Elinor joined her in the kitchen. The motive was money. Mary Gerrard was the illegitimate daughter of Laura Welman and Sir Lewis Rycroft. Had this been discovered sooner, she would have inherited Mrs Welman's estate. Nurse Hopkins knows Mary's true parents because of a letter from her sister Eliza some years earlier. When Hopkins encouraged Mary Gerrard to write a will, Mary named as beneficiary the woman whom she supposes to be her aunt, Mary Riley, the sister of Eliza Gerrard, in New Zealand. Mary Riley's married name is Mary Draper. Mary Draper of New Zealand it turns out \"is\" Nurse Hopkins in England, as two people from New Zealand who knew Mary Draper both confirm in court. Hopkins leaves the courtroom before the judge can recall her.\n\nElinor is acquitted, and Peter Lord takes her away from where reporters can find her. Poirot talks with Lord to explain his deductions and actions to him as he gathered information on the true murderer, and how the \"quickness of air travel\" allowed witnesses from New Zealand to be brought to the trial. Poirot tells Lord he understands his clumsy efforts to get some action in Poirot's investigation. Lord's embarrassment is alleviated by Poirot's assurance that Lord will be Elinor's husband, not Roddy.\n\n\nThe Victims:\n\nIn the village\n\nIn the courtroom\n\nThe title comes from a song from Act II, Scene IV of Shakespeare's \"Twelfth Night\" which is printed as an epigraph to the novel.\n\n<poem>Come away, come away, death,\nAnd in sad cypress let me be laid;\nFly away, fly away breath;\nI am slain by a fair cruel maid.\nMy shroud of white, stuck all with yew,\nO, prepare it!\nMy part of death, no one so true\nDid share it.</poem>\n\nThe novel is written in three parts: in the first place an account, largely from the perspective of Elinor Carlisle of the death of her aunt, Laura Welman, and the subsequent death of Mary Gerrard; secondly Poirot's account of his investigation in conversation with Dr Lord; and, thirdly, a sequence in court, again mainly from Elinor's dazed perspective.\n\nMaurice Percy Ashley in \"The Times Literary Supplement\" gave a positive review to the book in the issue of 9 March 1940: \"In recent years the detective story-reading public has been so profusely drenched with thrills, 'wisecracks' and perverted psychology that one sometimes wonders whether there is still room for the old-fashioned straight-forward problem in detection. There are, however, a few first-class exponents of this art with us – though now that Miss Sayers has, for the moment at any rate, turned moralist and others have entered the easier field of thriller writing there seem to be increasingly few. Mrs Christie in particular remains true to the old faith; and it is pleasant to be able to record that her hand has not lost its cunning\". The reviewer regretted that Poirot had lost some of his 'foibles' and Hastings no longer featured in the plots but he ended on a high note: \"Like all Mrs Christie's work, it is economically written, the clues are placed before the reader with impeccable fairness, the red herrings are deftly laid and the solution will cause many readers to kick themselves. Some occasional readers of detective stories are wont to criticize Mrs Christie on the ground that her stories are insufficiently embroidered, that she includes, for instance, no epigrams over the college port. But is it not time to state that in the realm of detective fiction proper, where problems are fairly posed and fairly solved, there is no one to touch her?\"\n\nIn \"The New York Times Book Review\" of 15 September 1940, Kay Irvin concluded, \"The cast of characters is small, the drama is built up with all this author's sure, economical skill. \"Sad Cypress\" is not the best of the Christie achievements, but it is better than the average thriller on every count.\"\n\nIn reviewing several crime novels in \"The Observer\"'s issue of 10 March 1940, Maurice Richardson began, \"An outstanding crime week. Not only is Agatha Christie shining balefully on her throne, but the courtiers have made an unusually neat artistic arrangement of corpses up and down the steps.\" Concentrating on \"Sad Cypress\" specifically, Richardson concluded, \"Characterisation brilliantly intense as ever. In fact, Agatha Christie has done it again, which is all you need to know.\"\n\n\"The Scotsman\"'s review in its issue of 11 March 1940 concluded, \"\"Sad Cypress\" is slighter and rather less ingenious than Mrs Christie's stories usually are, and the concluding explanation is unduly prolonged. But it is only with reference to Mrs Christie's own high level that it seems inferior. By ordinary standards of detective fiction it is a fascinating and skilfully related tale.\"\n\nE R Punshon in \"The Guardian\"'s issue of 2 April 1940 concluded, \"The story is told with all and even more of Mrs Christie's accustomed skill and economy of effect, but it is a pity that the plot turns upon a legal point familiar to all and yet so misconceived that many readers will feel the tale is deprived of plausibility.\"\n\nRobert Barnard considered this novel to be \"A variation on the usual triangle theme and the only time Christie uses the lovely-woman-in-the-dock-accused-of-murder ploy.\" His commentary on it was strongly positive, calling it \"Elegiac, more emotionally involving than is usual in Christie, but the ingenuity and superb clueing put it among the very best of the classic titles. Her knowledge of poison is well to the fore, but the amateur will also benefit from a knowledge of horticulture and a skill in close reading.\"\n\nPeter Lord says that he has been recommended to consult Poirot by Dr. John Stillingfleet on the basis of Poirot's brilliant performance in the case related in the short story, \"The Dream\", which had been printed two years earlier in issue 566 of \"The Strand\" (magazine) and later printed in book form in \"The Adventure of the Christmas Pudding\" in 1960 in the UK and in \"The Regatta Mystery\" in the US in 1939. The character of Stillingfleet later reappears in \"Third Girl\" (1966).\n\nOne of the witnesses flown to the trial from New Zealand is named Amelia Sedley, a name borrowed from Vanity Fair by William Makepeace Thackeray in 1847-48.\n\nThe novel was adapted as a five-part serial for BBC Radio 4 in 1992. John Moffatt reprised his role of Poirot. The serial was broadcast weekly from Thursday, 14 May to Thursday, 11 June at 10.00am to 10.30pm. All five episodes were recorded in the week of 16 to 20 March 1992.\n\nAdaptor: Michael Bakewell\nProducer: Enyd Williams\n\nCast:\n\nThe book was adapted by London Weekend Television as a one-hundred-minute drama and transmitted on ITV in the UK on Friday 26 December 2003 as a special episode in their series \"Agatha Christie's Poirot\". The adaptation was quite faithful to the novel, with the time and setting being the two major changes. Whereas the novel took place partly in the criminal court and partly at the Welman estate, the adaptation takes place at the Welman estate. In the end, Nurse Hopkins attempts to kill Poirot with poisoned tea but he pretends to drink it and pours the tea into a sugar bowl.\n\nAdaptor: David Pirie\nDirector: David Moore\n\nCast:\n\n\"Sad Cypress\" was filmed on location at Dorney Court, Buckinghamshire.\n\n\nThe book was first serialised in the US in \"Collier's Weekly\" in ten parts from 25 November 1939 (volume 104, number 22) to 27 January 1940 (volume 105, number 4) with illustrations by Mario Cooper.\n\nThe UK serialisation was in nineteen parts in the \"Daily Express\" from Saturday, 23 March to Saturday, 13 April 1940. The accompanying illustrations were uncredited. This version did not contain any chapter divisions.\n\n"}
{"id": "2062945", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2062945", "title": "Daniel Featley", "text": "Daniel Featley\n\nDaniel Featley, also called Fairclough and sometimes called Richard Fairclough/Featley (15 March 158217 April 1645), was an English theologian and controversialist. A leading Calvinist disputant of the 1620s, he fell into difficulties with Parliament due to his loyalty to Charles I in the 1640s, and he was harshly treated and imprisoned at the end of his life.\n\nFeatley was born at Charlton-upon-Otmoor, Oxfordshire, on 15 March 1582, the second son of John Fairclough. by his wife Marian Thrift. His father was cook to Laurence Humphrey, President of Magdalen College, Oxford, and afterwards to Corpus Christi College in the same university. Featley was the first of his family to adopt the surname.\n\nHe was educated as a chorister of Magdalen College. John Rainolds, President of Corpus, was his godfather and benefactor, and Featley is noted as a protégé of Rainolds, a leading Puritan spokesman. He was admitted scholar of Corpus Christi College 13 December 1594, and probationer fellow 20 September 1602, having taken his BA degree on 13 February 1601. He proceeded MA on 17 April 1606, and became noted as a disputant and preacher. In 1607 he delivered an oration at Rainolds' funeral.\n\nIn 1610 and for the two following years he was chaplain to Sir Thomas Edmondes, the English ambassador at Paris, and was noticed for his attacks on Catholic doctrine and his disputations with Jesuits. Twenty-one of the sermons preached by him in the ambassador's chapel are printed. Featley commenced BD on 8 July 1613, and was the preacher at the act of that year. He seems to have given offence by his plain speaking, even in consecration sermons.\n\nFeatley was domestic chaplain to George Abbot, Archbishop of Canterbury. For the benefit of Marc Anthony de Dominis and at Abbot's request, Featley in 1617 kept his exercise for the degree of DD under John Prideaux; Prideaux lost his temper, and Abbot had some difficulty in effecting a reconciliation. De Dominis, soon after appointed master of the Savoy, gave Featley a brother's place in that hospital. In 1610 he had preached the rehearsal sermon at Oxford, and by the Bishop of London's appointment he discharged the same duty at St. Paul's Cross in 1618.\n\nAt the invitation of an old pupil, Ezekiel Arscot, Featley accepted the rectory of North Hill, Cornwall, which he soon vacated on his institution by Abbot to the rectory of Lambeth, 6 February 1619. On 27 June 1623 a famous conference was held at the house of Sir Humphrey Lynde between Featley and Francis White, the dean of Carlisle, and the Jesuits John Piercy (\"alias\" Fisher) and John Sweet; an account was surreptitiously printed the same year, with the title \"The Fisher catched in his owne Net\". Featley, by Abbot's command, prepared an elaborate report of that and other controversies. The king, James I, himself asked to engage with him in a disputation, which Featley afterwards published. Some time before 1625 Abbot gave him the rectory of Allhallows, Bread Street, which Featley was afterwards allowed to exchange for the rectory of Acton, Middlesex, to which he was instituted on 30 January 1627.\n\nIn 1622 Featley had married Mrs. Joyce Halloway, or Holloway. She was the daughter of William Kerwyn, and had already been twice married. There being at the time no parsonage at Lambeth, Featley resided in his wife's house at the end of Kennington Lane. He concealed his marriage for some time, in case it should interfere with his residence at Lambeth Palace; but in 1625 he ceased to be chaplain to Abbot. Featley had been refused admission to the palace, because an illness from which he was suffering was supposed to be the plague; it proved to be a sharp attack of ague, and he abruptly resigned.\n\nFeatley was also a chaplain in ordinary to Charles I of England, and was appointed Provost of the declining Chelsea College in 1630. A devotional manual entitled \"Ancilla Pietatis\" was published in 1626 and proved very popular; a sixth edition appeared in 1639, translations into French and other languages were made, and it was a special favourite with Charles I in his troubles.\n\nFeatley and William Laud, Abbot's successor, were never on good terms. The Laudian Peter Heylyn said that Featley was 'a Calvinist always in his heart,' though he defended the Church of England and episcopacy in the 1640s. He refused to turn the communion table in his church at Lambeth 'altar-wise.' He was a witness against Laud in 1634, when the primate was charged with having made superstitious innovations in Lambeth Chapel. Laud, two years later, ordered many passages reflecting on the Roman Catholics in Featley's \"Clavis Mystica\" to be obliterated, before allowing the book to be printed. These passages were reproduced by William Prynne, in his \"Canterburies Doome\".\n\nIn 1641 Featley was nominated by the House of Lords as one of the subcommittee 'to settle religion,' which met at the Jerusalem Chamber, Westminster, under the presidency of John Williams, then Dean of Westminster. He wrote animadversions on a Catholic tract called 'A Safegard from Shipwracke to a prudent Catholike, to which he gave the title of 'Vertumnus Romanus,' (1642); and began marginal annotations on St. Paul's Epistles, which were printed in the Bible issued by the Westminster Assembly in 1645. As the First English Civil War broke out, he was harassed and in some danger. After the Battle of Brentford, 13 November 1642, some of the Earl of Essex's troops, who were quartered at Acton, set fire to his barns and stables, broke open the church, pulled down the font, smashed the windows and burnt the communion rails in the street. On 10 February 1643, in the middle of a service, five soldiers rushed into Lambeth Church intending to murder Featley, who had been warned, and kept out of the way. Two parishioners were wounded and died.\n\nHe was next brought before the Committee for Plundered Ministers, on articles exhibited against him by three of his Lambeth parishioners, whom he styles 'semi-separatists.' On 16 March 1643 he was called into the exchequer chamber to answer the charges. The committee refused to hear his witnesses, and voted him out of his living on 23 March, four only out of seventeen being present. The order was not reported to the Commons until 11 July, when it was negatived. Earlier in the year he had been offered, says his nephew John Featley, the chair of divinity at Leyden, but declined it because of age. He attended the meetings of Westminster Assembly, of which he was nominated a member in June. He spoke on behalf of episcopacy, and denounced the alienation of church property and the toleration of new sects. He also refused to assent to all of the solemn league and covenant. His speeches, together with 'sixteen reasons for episcopal government,' are printed in \"Sacra Nemesis\"; the speeches alone, as \"Orationes Synodicae\", in the sixth edition of his \"Dippers Dipt\". In consequence of a message from King Charles, whose chaplain he was, Featley eventually withdrew from the assembly. Soon afterwards he was detected in a correspondence with Archbishop James Ussher, then with the King at Oxford, and he was imprisoned as a spy, in Lord Petre's house in Aldersgate Street. According to his sentence, his rectories and library only were ordered to be sequestered, but he was despoiled; Richard Baxter among others sympathised.\n\nDuring his imprisonment Featley returned to controversy. At the request of the parliament he wrote a treatise against the Catholics. While writing it, says his nephew, he was allowed three books at a time from his library. In January 1644 he published as the third section of \"The Gentle Lash\" his 'Challenge' against the puritan divines of the day, in which he offered to vindicate the articles, discipline, and liturgy of the Church of England. Another controversy was with a fellow-prisoner, the Baptist minister, Henry Denne. Featley had on 17 October 1643 held fierce argument in Southwark with William Kiffin and three other baptists, the substance of which he embodied in his best-known work entitled \"The Dippers Dipt\" Denne, hurt by the tone of Featley's diatribe, offered to dispute the ten arguments with him face to face; and then drew up his \"Antichrist Unmasked\", which appeared by 1 April 1645, when Featley was already a dying man; another reply by Samuel Richardson, entitled \"Some brief Considerations\", followed soon afterwards.\n\nFeatley was in bad health before his imprisonment, and after eighteen months' confinement he was permitted out on bail to move to Chelsea College for change of air. There he died of asthma and dropsy, 17 April 1645, and on the 21st was buried in the chancel of Lambeth church. The sermon was preached by Dr. William Leo, an old friend.\n\nHe was involved in the translation of the King James Version of the Bible. In the project, Featley served in the \"First Oxford Company\", responsible for the later books of the Old Testament.\n\nHis works include:\n\n\nFeatley also published, London, 1638, Sir Humphrey Lynde's posthumous reply to the Jesuit Robert Jenison, entitled \"A Case for the Spectacle, or a Defence of Via Tuta\", together with a treatise of his own called \"Strictura in Lyndomasttigem, by way of supplement to the Knight's Answer\", and a 'Sermon [on Numb. xxiii, 10] preached at his Funerall at Cobham, June the 14th, 1636;' reprinted in the supplement to Edmund Gibson's \"Preservative from Popery\" (vol. v. ed. 1849). A set of Latin verses, written by him in 1606, giving an exposition of Jesuitical amphibology, was prefixed to Henry Mason's \"New Art of Lying\", London, 1634.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2062946", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2062946", "title": "Oxford Centre for Hindu Studies", "text": "Oxford Centre for Hindu Studies\n\nThe Oxford Centre for Hindu Studies, founded in 1997, is a Recognised Independent Centre of the University of Oxford, England. It develops academic programmes of education, research and publishing in Hindu studies. It aims to encourage the Hindu community in the academic study of their own traditions and cultures.\n\nWhen founded, the OCHS was for a short time known as the Oxford Centre for Vaishnava and Hindu Studies (OCVHS). The Centre's lean towards Vaishnava traditions reflected the fact that its Founding Director, Shaunaka Rishi Das, is a Vaishnava priest. As the Centre grew, it became more inclusive and broader in scope regarding Hindu Studies, leading to its change of name. The Centre started out in a suburban house on Divinity Road with three students and a small library of donated books. It has since moved into a larger office in Magdalen Street, Oxford.\n\nMost students are members of Oxford colleges and are studying for degrees in the faculties of Theology and Religion, Oriental Studies, or History and Anthropology. Since 1997, the Centre has been inviting scholars to deliver lectures and tutorials at Oxford University. These include recipients of the Shivdasani and J.P. and Beena Khaitain Visiting Fellowships, with the Shivdasani Fellowship sponsoring Indian scholars and the J.P. and Beena Khaitan Fellowship helping scholars from other regions to come to Oxford. By these means the Centre encourages intellectual understanding between cultures of learning. The Centre offers regular interdisciplinary lectures and seminars at Oxford including the named Majewski, Wahlstrom and Ford lectures.\n\nOne of the Centre's longest-standing exchange programs is with Aarhus University, active nearly every term since October 2014. Dr Bjarne Wernicke-Olesen, an OCHS Fellow, established the Memorandum of Understanding with the Aarhus University Department for the Study of Religion that enabled the exchange. Danish visiting students are hosted at the Centre for one or more terms to further their Sanskrit studies. The Centre has at times hosted large groups of visiting Aarhus students. In Spring 2016, on one such visit, a group of students came to the OCHS for a two-day seminar on the Haṭhayogapradīpikā.\n\nSince 2003, the OCHS Continuing Education Department (CED) has facilitated access to Hindu Studies for adults in the UK at various locations, and online for a more international audience.\n\nThe Centre's online courses explore Hindu beliefs and practices along with notions of Hindu identity in the lives of modern practitioners. Courses are offered such as \"Introduction to Sanskrit\", \"Hinduism and Sacred Sound: Chant and Music\", and \"Philosophy of Yoga\". The centre develops and releases new courses in conjunction with scholars globally, with 12 courses currently offered and several more in development. The online program had 734 students enrolled in 2018.\n\nBesides online courses, the centre offers day schools and summer schools. Day schools held in London have explored topics such as Bhakti and the Upanisads in a condensed format. The OCHS has also organized summer schools every year since 2014, with each spanning around three days.\n\nThe library holds a collection of some 25,000 volumes received mainly by donation concentrating on the study of Hindu culture, religion, languages, literature, philosophy, arts and society. Areas of strength include Sanskrit grammar, poetics, philosophy, theology, comparative theology, and religions studies. The collection reached its present size with major donations from Brian Pearce, UK, Prof. J.A.F. Roodbergen, the Netherlands, Tamal Krishna Goswami, USA, Prof. M. Narasimhachary, India, Prof. Tuvia Gelblum, UK, Prof. Friedhelm Hardy, UK, H. D. Goswami, USA, and Prof. Joseph T. O'Connell, Canada.\n\nSince 2008, the Centre has published the Journal of Hindu Studies in partnership with Oxford University Press. The Journal is fully refereed. The aim of the Journal is to create a forum for critical and constructive interdisciplinary discourse, exploring key questions and meta-issues relating to the developing field of Hindu Studies.\n\nThe Journal currently publishes three issues a year, one guest-edited and one open for submissions. Each issue contains approximately six articles in addition to book reviews, occasional review articles, and reports on work in progress. The third issue usually publishes conference and panel papers. The first two issues are on the same broad annual theme. These themes focus on theoretical meta-issues that are relevant to all fields within Hindu Studies, linking scholars in interdisciplinary dialogue. Themes published to date include: Hermeneutics and Interpretation, Aesthetics and the Arts, and Reason and Rationality. The disciplines represented in the Journal presently include History, Philology, Literature and the Arts, Philosophy, Anthropology, Sociology, Archaeology, and Religious Studies.\n\nThe Journal is edited by James Madaio, Gavin Flood, Jessica Frazier, and Rembert Lutjeharms.\n\nThe OCHS Hindu Studies book series, has proven to be a successful association with Routledge, the publisher. The series publishes books covering areas of constructive Hindu theological, philosophical and ethical research which aims to bring Hindu traditions into dialogue with contemporary trends in scholarship and contemporary society. This includes annotated translations of important primary sources and studies in the history of the Hindu religious traditions. The series has attracted original, high quality, research level work on religion, culture and society of Hindus living in India and abroad.\n\nThe Series Editor is the Centre's Academic Director, Professor Gavin Flood. The previous Series Editor was Professor Francis X. Clooney, SJ, of Harvard University, 2003–2005. Professor Clooney served as the Centre's Academic Director from 2002-2004.\n\nThe centre, in association with Routledge, launched the Archeology and Religion in South Asia book series. This series publishes books that tackle questions of South Asian religion and society from the perspective of archaeological evidence. Underpinning the series is an approach that is motivated by close study of inscriptions, iconography, numismatics, and archaeological remains (particularly of shrines and diverse sacred sites). The Series Editor is Professor Himanshu Prabhu Ray, an emeritus professor at Jawaharlal Nehru University and a former Shivdasani Visiting Fellow.\n\nThe OCHS has an Online Library of hundreds of MP3 recordings of lectures and seminars. Stretching from 2001 to the present and growing with each new term, the library ranges from introductory surveys of major Hindu themes, texts and traditions; single lectures on topics like Women in the Mahabharata or Poetry in the Vedas; discussions with Jewish, Muslim, and Christian Scholars, and seminars on Hindi Cinema. The OCHS also puts out podcasts. Its weekly lecture podcast had over 15,000 subscribers (in 2007).\n\nResearch projects at OCHS fall under four general headings: 1. Hinduism and modernity 2. Classical Hinduism 3. Religious dialogue and interface 4. Historical perspectives on Hindu cultures.\n\nProject Director: Ferdinando Sardella, Lucian Wong\n\nThis project undertakes an interdisciplinary survey of modern Bengali Vaishnavism from the mid-18th century to the mid-20th century. Part of this work involves the mapping, collection, and translation of relevant literature from this period. The six main areas of research in regards to Bengali Vaishnavism are: 1) theology and philosophy, 2) history, 3) transnational currents and the development of modern institutions, 4) case studies and biography, 5) human rights, gender, family, and caste, and 6) theoretical and methodological issues. The project was launched with a workshop at Worcester College (2015) on which a volume was published.\n\nProject Directors: Ravi M. Gupta, Kenneth R. Valpey\n\nThis research project assesses the Bhagavata Purana together with its context and consolidates past scholarship on the text. Its first phase saw the publication of a volume of research articles entitled \"Bhagavata: The Bhāgavata Purāṇa: Sacred Text and Living Tradition\" (2013) and the publication of an annotated and abridged translation of the Bhagavata Purana (2016), both by Columbia University Press. Phase two of the project was marked by a large international conference in Chennai with the University of Madras that brought together the network of scholars in the field. The BORI in its partnership with the OCHS has compiled a database of Bhagavata Purana manuscripts and secondary literature and is assessing a critical edition of the text.\n\nProject Directors: Bjarne Wernicke-Olesen, Gavin Flood\n\nThe Shakta Traditions project takes an interdisciplinary approach to investigating Goddess (Devi) worship among the Brahmanical community, in Tantric practices, and at the village level. The project aims to carve out space for the tradition within the Indian religious context by defining its theology, textual lineage, historical evolution, and its relationship to parallel traditions such as Shaivism. It has produced several international conferences and symposia, such as the international Shakta Traditions conference (2011), as well as numerous conference volumes published by the Oxford University Press and Routledge. In 2018, Bjarne Oleson established a study and research centre for the project in Kathmandu with a focus on manuscript collection and preservation and fieldwork. The Shakta Traditions project resulted from the Memorandum of Understanding between the OCHS and Aarhus University and is run as a collaboration between the two institutions.\n\nProject Managers: Kiyokazu Okita, Rembert Lutjeharms\n\nThis project investigates the formative period of Gaudiya Vaishnavism through research into the Sanskrit writings of the Goswamis, a group of early followers of Krishna Chaitanya whose works provided the theological underpinning of the Gaudiya Vaishnava tradition. The core of the project involves preparing critical editions and translations of important Goswami texts. Other branches of the project involve study of early Gaudiya Vaishnavism's relation to contemporaneous Vaishnava schools, the theology of authors who inspired the Goswamis, how the Goswamis' teachings were developed by later Vaishnavas, and the material culture of the early Gaudiyas. The project was launched with a two-day workshop entitled 'The Building of Vrindavana' (2017).\n\nThe centre hosts interdisciplinary conferences and symposia. These gatherings have dealt with topics including the idea of Desire, Women in Hinduism, Philosophy, Archaeology, temple art and architecture, and Shakta Traditions.\n\nThe Shivdasani conferences synthesized the work being done in various projects. The first conference (2007) was held in Trinity College and was titled \"Archaeology and Text: The Temple in South Asia\". It helped launch the Centre's Archeology and Text Project. The proceedings of this conference were published by Oxford University Press, in 2009. The second Shivdasani Conference (2009) – \"Thinking Inside the Box: The Concept of a Category in Indian Philosophy\"– took place at Somerville College. It explored linguistic, aesthetic, and ontological categories as they appear in Indian schools of philosophy, simultaneously bringing these ideas into dialogue with Western methods and launching the Categories in Indian Philosophy research project.\n\nThe centre has held several conferences and symposia for the Shakta Traditions project. It held the first international Shakta Traditions conference (2011) with approximately fifty participants and twelve specialist scholars. The conference took an interdisciplinary survey of Shakta history, practice, and doctrine with the aim of exploring the tradition's uniqueness in the context of the Indian religious landscape. The Centre also held symposiums on Shakta Traditions in 2017 and in 2018. In order to further develop the Bhagavata Purana Project, the OCHS held a conference in Chennai co-hosted by the University of Madras and C.P. Ramaswami Aiyar Foundation titled 'The Bhāgavata Purāṇa: History, Philosophy, and Culture' (2017). To officially launch the Gosvami Era Project, a two-day workshop titled 'The Building of Vrindavana' (2017)\",\" was held at Oxford. The OCHS has also organized conferences dealing with comparative theology - notably a conference on 'Desire in Christianity and Indian Religions' (2007) and a conference on 'Surrender to God in Islam, Christianity, and Hinduism' (2008).\n\nShaunaka Rishi Das, the Director of the OCHS, is the first Hindu Chaplain to the University of Oxford. He regularly meets Hindu and Jain students to offer pastoral guidance. The Centre facilitates HUM, the Oxford University Hindu Society. Shaunaka Rishi also serves as Chaplain at various local hospitals. The Centre has developed a chaplaincy course for the Free University of Amsterdam. It was designed by Dr Nick Sutton and Anuradha Dooney in conjunction with Vineet Chander from Princeton University. In 2017, they, along with Shaunaka Rishi Das, explored the emerging institution of Hindu chaplaincy in a book titled 'Hindu Chaplaincy: The Oxford Centre for Hindu Studies Guide'. As discussed in the book, they take interest in the task of translating a conventionally Christian notion of Chaplaincy into Hindu terms.\n\nThe Bhumi Project is one of the centre's key outreach programs and aims to mobilize Hindus against climate change globally. It was launched in partnership with the Alliance of Religions and Conservation in 2009 and with input from the four largest Hindu temples in the UK. Its inauguration was held at Windsor Castle in the presence of Prince Philip and Ban Ki-moon, Secretary-General of the United Nations. The project encourages Hindu communities to develop plans to transform their environmental practices. The Bhumi Project uniquely dialogues with these groups by making a case for environmentalism grounded in Hindu scripture, an approach exemplified in its published petition, the \"Hindu Declaration on Climate Change\". The Bhumi Project then works with them by providing them with resources and the chance to take on over twenty projects. The Centre helped launch the Bhumi Pledge in 2015, in which it invited students worldwide to make a pledge to care for the environment and organize an environmental awareness event on their campus. The Bhumi Project has also facilitated Hindu Environment Week for several years, in which events to raise awareness of environmental issues are held across the world (India, UK, US) - there were over 10,000 global participants in 2015. Members of the Bhumi Project have participated in panels, conferences (such as the annual COP22 UN climate change negotiations), and interfaith events (such as the 2017 interfaith talks in Delhi with Islamic Relief and EcoSikh). The Centre has launched with GreenFaith for this project.\n\nIn October 2006, after being invited by the Emerging Markets Group (EMG), the OCHS began work with Dow Jones in creating the Dharma Index. This index serves as an investing guide for Hindu and Buddhist communities by integrating dharmic ethical considerations into its investment calculus. The OCHS brought together academics, financial experts, and religious leaders (both Hindu and Buddhist) to form three committees tasked with creating the Index. The final document contains five indices, one each for the global market, USA, India, UK, and Japan. It also contains an overview of dharmic ethical values along with guidelines for their practical application in investment. The Index was launched on 15 Jan 2008 at the Taj Hotel, Mumbai.\n\nFor the first time, the experiences of 300 first generation Hindus who settled in Britain were recorded, transcribed, given a web presence, and archived. This three-year project, launched at the Indian High Commission, London, in 2001, was funded by the Heritage Lottery Foundation.\n\nThe Hindu Youth Research Project, conducted in 2001, is the first survey of its kind in the UK, developed with the assistance of the Hindu Youth Festival 2001. The results have served to make the concerns and experiences of young British Hindus known to government, media and the public.\n\nThis project provides online access to an important part of the British Hindu cultural heritage. The Shikshapatri manuscript is part of the Sanskrit manuscript collection of Oxford's Bodleian Library. The text was written by Shree Swaminarayan, founder of Swaminarayan Hinduism, and is a religious manual for daily life. The project aimed at helping people of all backgrounds to better understand the significance of this popular manuscript. The project also proved to be a good example of how scholars and community members successfully worked together for a common goal. The project was a collaborative venture between the OCHS, the Indian Institute Library, and the Refugee Studies Centre of Oxford University, was funded by The New Opportunities Fund, and lasted from 2001-2003.\n\nThe OCHS has entered into partnerships and Memoranda of Understanding (MoUs) with academic institutions across the world — from India, institutions such as the C.P. Ramaswami Aiyar Institute of Indological Research (CPRIIR), the University of Madras, and the University of Mumbai.\n\nThe relevance of such partnerships is exemplified by the Centre's partnership with Nepal Sanskrit University (NSU) and the Bhandarkar Oriental Research Institute (BORI). Through the MoU with Nepal Sanskrit University in 2014, the Centre gains access to the National Archive of Nepal's large selection of rare, unedited, and unpublished Sanskrit and Nepali manuscripts. Since 2016, the BORI's partnership with the OCHS on the Bhagavata Purana Project has led to great strides in the project. The BORI is engaging in a lengthy assessment of the critical edition of the Bhagavata Purana published by the BJ Institute of Learning and Research. In collaboration with the OCHS, they are analyzing the methodology used to put together this critical edition, taking into consideration dozens of other manuscripts, and are finally assessing whether the BJ Institute's critical edition is the most genuine manuscript. Besides this, the team has also researched the living traditions of the Bhagavata Purana in Maharashtra and is creating a collection of data on the text of the Bhagavata Purana and related texts. This work has contributed much to the ongoing phase two of the Bhagavata Purana Project.\n\nThe Centre has signed MoUs with places across the globe, including the University of Florida (UF), the Chinese University of Hong Kong, and Aarhus University. The UF's collaboration with the OCHS inspired the creation of a centre at the University of Florida called the Centre for the Study of Hindu Traditions (CHiTra), paralleling the OCHS in its aims. The Centre's MoU with Aarhus University resulted in a program allowing Sanskrit students at Aarhus to spend a semester at the Centre as visiting students. Several Danish students have taken advantage of this opportunity. The MoU also led the establishment of a new research unit for South Asian Religion (SAR) at Aarhus. These collaborations have proven to be effective ways for the Centre to bring its ideas and approaches to other academic institutions.\n\n"}
{"id": "2062948", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2062948", "title": "Thomas Keyes", "text": "Thomas Keyes\n\nThomas Keyes or Keys (by 1524 – before 5 September 1571) was captain of Sandgate Castle, and serjeant porter to Queen Elizabeth I. Without the Queen's consent, he married Lady Mary Grey, who had a claim to the throne.\n\nThomas Keyes, born by 1524, was the son and heir of Richard Keyes, esquire, who was twice married. According to Richardson, Thomas Keyes was the son of his father's first marriage, to Agnes Saunders, daughter of Henry Saunders of Ewell, Surrey. Richard Keyes married secondly Mildred Digges, a daughter of Sir John Scott (died 1533) of Scot's Hall at Smeeth, Kent, by Anne Pympe, the daughter and heiress of Reynold Pympe, esquire, of Nettlestead, Kent, and Elizabeth Pashley, the daughter of John Pashley, esquire. According to Bindoff and Sherwood, Thomas Keyes was the son of this marriage. Before her marriage to Richard Keyes, Mildred Scott had first been the wife of John Digges, esquire.\n\nIn 1528 Richard Keyes was in the service of King Henry VIII's first Queen, Catherine of Aragon, and was later one of the King's serjeants at arms, an office he resigned in November 1541. He was a commissioner and paymaster for the building of Sandgate Castle during the years 1539-40. On 10 May 1538 he was granted a 21-year lease of the dissolved monastery of St. Radegund's near Dover. In his will, dated 15 November 1545, Richard Keyes bequeathed lodging to his son, Thomas, and Thomas's wife and servants, at St. Radegund's during the lifetime of Thomas' mother, and after her death, the leases of St. Radegund's and of Richard Keyes' house at Lewisham, Kent. At his father's death, Thomas Keyes also succeeded to his father's post as captain of Sandgate Castle, for which he later received an annuity of £40.\n\nBy 1545 Keyes had married a wife whose name is unknown, by whom he had at least one son and one daughter. It is said that he took some part in suppressing Wyatt's Rebellion in 1549.\n\nIn November 1554 Keyes was elected Member of Parliament for Hythe, Kent, through the support of Sir Thomas Cheney, Lord Warden of the Cinque Ports, who later left Keyes £40 in his will. Keyes' cousin, Nicholas Crispe, was elected at the same time, and both were fined for absence from the House in the parliamentary session in early 1555, and prosecuted in the court of King's Bench in Easter term of that year, where they also failed to appear. The case was brought to an end with the death of Queen Mary, but while it was still ongoing Keyes was appointed serjeant porter of the Palace of Westminster.\n\nDuring the years 1556-8 Keyes sued Francis Lambard for debt, and on 2 January 1558 he was at Dover, where he was charged with receiving levies for the relief of Calais. Queen Elizabeth acceded to the throne in November 1558, and in the pardon roll of 15 January 1559 Keyes is recorded as 'Captain of Sandgate Castle, Folkestone, Kent, now Serjeant-Usher of the Household, late of St Radigund's, in Poulton, Co Kent'. In 1560 Keyes wrote to the Queen's Master of the Horse, Lord Robert Dudley, from Sandgate Castle concerning restrictions on the import of horses, and in August 1562 was acting as Dudley's deputy.\n\nKeyes's first wife had died, and on the evening of 16 July 1565, while the Queen was absent attending the wedding of her kinsman Sir Henry Knollys (d. 21 December 1582), and Margaret Cave, the daughter of Sir Ambrose Cave, in his chamber by the Watergate at Westminster Keyes secretly married the Queen's kinswoman Lady Mary Grey, one of the three daughters of Henry Grey, 1st Duke of Suffolk and Frances Brandon. As a great-granddaughter of King Henry VII, and in accordance with the will of King Henry VIII, Mary Grey had a claim to the throne.\n\nUpon hearing that the wedding had taken place, the Queen is said to have declared wrathfully that \"I'll have no little bastard Keyes laying claim to my throne\", while Sir William Cecil observed that the secret marriage was \"an unhappy chance & monstrous\". Apart from the disparity in their social positions, Keyes stood 6 feet 8 inches tall, while the Lady Mary was described by the Spanish ambassador as \"little, crook-backed and very ugly\".\n\nOn 19 August 1565 Thomas Keyes, Lady Mary, and her servant Frances Goldwell were examined concerning the marriage, and for this 'monstrous' act of lese-majeste Keyes was committed to solitary confinement in the Fleet prison, while Lady Mary was placed under strict house arrest. In June and July 1566 Keyes wrote several times to Cecil from the Fleet, begging him to intercede for him with the Queen. Keyes offered to have the marriage annulled, but on 5 August Edmund Grindal, Bishop of London, having investigated the matter, wrote to Cecil that if the marriage were to be dissolved it must be done judicially. On 21 December Keyes again wrote to Cecil, complaining of his harsh treatment in the Fleet, and in particular that he had become ill, having been served meat for his dinner which had been steeped in a liquid used to treat the prison's dogs for mange. On 7 July 1567, Keyes wrote again to Cecil. He was finally released from the Fleet in 1568, but was still not permitted to see his wife. On 6 October 1568, a free man, he wrote to Cecil from Lewisham, stating that he would rather die in the Queen's service than end his days banished from her presence. His plea went unregarded, and for the few remaining years of his life Keyes resided at Lewisham and then at Sandgate. In 1569 he was re-appointed captain of Sandgate Castle when England was threatened by a French-Spanish alliance, and on 7 May 1570 he wrote to Archbishop Matthew Parker asking him to intercede for him with the Queen, again requesting that he might be permitted to live with his wife. In 1571 Keyes made an unsuccessful bid to be re-elected to parliament for Hythe.\n\nKeyes died shortly before 5 September 1571, on which date William Brooke, 10th Baron Cobham, wrote to Cecil to inform him of the death of Thomas Keyes, serjeant porter, requesting that his brother, Thomas Brooke, be granted Keyes's former post. The news was broken to Keyes's wife three days later at Gresham House, where Lady Mary had been living, first under house arrest, and later as an unwelcome guest, for some years. According to a letter from Sir Thomas Gresham to Cecil on 8 September, Lady Mary had taken the news of Keyes's death 'grievously'.\n\n\n\nDavey, Richard, \"The Sisters of Lady Jane Grey\", (London: Chapman & Hall, 1911), pp. 262–63.\n"}
{"id": "2062949", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2062949", "title": "Primorskaya Oblast", "text": "Primorskaya Oblast\n\nPrimorskaya Oblast () was an administrative division of the Russian Empire and the early Russian SFSR, created on October 31, 1856 by the Governing Senate. The name of the region literally means \"Maritime\" or \"Coastal.\" The region was established upon a Russian conquest of Daur people that used to live along Amur River. Before the Russian conquest, the territory belonged to the Chinese region of Manchuria.\n\nThe Amur river region was raided by the 1651 Russian expedition of Yerofey Khabarov, after which the indigenous Daur people were either killed or fled away further into territory of the Qing Dynasty's China. Before the Russian conquest, the territory belonged to the Chinese region of Manchuria. The precursor of Primorskaya Oblast was the Albazino Voivodeship that existed 1882-1886 and was abolished upon the conclusion of the Sino-Russian border conflicts. At first it was part of the Eastern Siberian General Government, but beginning 1884 within the Cis-Amur General Government.\n\nOriginally the oblast included the entire northeastern portion of Russia and territories of the Cis-Amur region. It was organized out of the newly acquired territories of the valley of the River Amur, Kamchatka Oblast, and Sakhalin. In 1858 the territory bordering along the left-bank of the Amur River to the outlet of the Ussuri River was transferred to the newly established Amur Oblast. At that time the region only included four districts: Nikolayevsk, Sofiysk, Okhotsk, Kamchatka. According to the Peking Treaty, in 1860 the Ussuri Krai was annexed to the region, based on the Treaty of Aigun and the Convention of Peking. During 1880-1888 there was created a separate \"Vladivostok Military Governorate\" that included Muravyov-Amursky Peninsula and the port of Vladivostok. In 1884 Sakhalin was separated as a separate administrative territory.\n\nThe capital of the oblast was originally Nikolayevsk-on-Amur, during 1880-1888 – Khabarovka (presently named Khabarovsk), and during 1888 it was relocated to Vladivostok. \n\nIn 1920 Primorskaya Oblast was included in the Far Eastern Republic and in 1922 transformed into the Primorskaya Governorate. \n\nDuring 1932-1939 there existed a region with the same name that was part of the Far Eastern Krai of the Russian SFSR.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2062953", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2062953", "title": "Clopton Bridge", "text": "Clopton Bridge\n\nClopton Bridge is located in Stratford-upon-Avon, England. \n\nIt is a Grade I listed masonry arch bridge with 14 pointed arches, which spans the River Avon, crossing at the place where the river was forded in Saxon times, and which gave the town its name. The bridge carries the A3400 road over the river.\n\nThe bridge was built in 1486/7, in the reign of Henry VII, financed by Hugh Clopton of Clopton House, who later became Lord Mayor of London. It replaced a timber bridge which may have dated back to 1318. Two arches were rebuilt in 1524. The bridge was again repaired in 1588 following flooding, and in 1642 after an arch had been destroyed to block the army of Oliver Cromwell. In 1696, money was raised to heighten the parapets, which were as low as four inches in places. The bridge was widened on the north side (upstream) in 1811, and a ten-sided toll-house tower added in 1814. A cast-iron footbridge was added to the north side in 1827.\n\nJohn Leland described the bridge as:\n\n\"a great and sumptuous Bridge upon Avon at the East Ende of the Towne, which hath 14 great Arches of Stone and long Causey made of Stone, low walled on each side, at the West Ende of the Bridge.\"\n\nThe bridge is now a Grade I listed building and a Scheduled Ancient Monument.\n\n"}
{"id": "2062960", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2062960", "title": "Supercharger (album)", "text": "Supercharger (album)\n\nSupercharger is the fourth album by the heavy metal band Machine Head. The release was ill-timed, and, as a result of little promotion, fell far short of the success of \"The Burning Red,\" which has sold about 134,000 copies in the US to date. \"Supercharger\" has sold about 45,000 copies in the US to date, making it a commercial failure. It is the band's last release to feature lead guitarist Ahrue Luster.\n\n\"Supercharger\" was released in October, 2001, just weeks after the 9/11 terrorist attacks. The lead (and only) single \"Crashing Around You\", was pulled from MTV and rock radio just as soon as it was added despite being the \"most added\" track in the United States. The pull was a result of the metaphorical \"crashing\" lyric in the song and the burning San Francisco skyline in the video. \n\nMachine Head's support tour for the album was done without help from their label Roadrunner Records, and after the release of \"Hellalive\" to fulfill their contract, led the band to a two-year hiatus from the label's American branch. \n\nWith \"The Burning Red\", the band moved their sound more towards contemporary nu metal trends. \"Supercharger\" was darker and heavier than \"The Burning Red\", but lacked as much groove metal sound as \"Burn My Eyes\" and \"The More Things Change...\". Two years later, the band would release \"Through the Ashes of Empires\" and return to their groove metal roots.\n\nThe album was released in standard and digipak editions, the latter of which contains four previously released bonus tracks.\n\nThe bonus track on several editions of \"Supercharger\", \"Hole in the Sky\", originally appeared on Nativity in Black II. The two live tracks on the 18 track digipak were recorded on September 15, 1999 at Webster Hall, Hartford, Connecticut. These live tracks were previously released on Year of the Dragon.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2062961", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2062961", "title": "T. Sean Shannon", "text": "T. Sean Shannon\n\nT. Sean Shannon is from Houston, Texas. His brother Charles Shannon (d.2003) was also a stand-up comedian, and writer.\n\nAs a writer for \"Saturday Night Live\" he won an Emmy Award in 2002 (nominated in 2001 & 2003) and a WGA Award in 2001 (nominated in 2001, 2002 and 2003). He is the writer and creator of the sketch \"Bear City\", which deals with a city completely inhabited by anthropomorphic bears due to a meteor crash. In July 2008, Shannon revealed that he had written a \"Bear City\" movie.\n\nHe was also the subject of controversy and political unrest at \"SNL\", thanks to a joke he told in \"The Aristocrats\", Penn Jillette mentions this incident in the commentary for the film, but does not mention the show, instead stating that T. Sean works for a popular network comedy show.\n\nHe directed and co-wrote the feature film \"Harold\" that was released in July 2008.\n"}
{"id": "2062970", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2062970", "title": "List of fishes of Minnesota", "text": "List of fishes of Minnesota\n\nThere are about 123 species of fishes found naturally in Minnesota waters, including Lake Superior. The following list is based on the Minnesota Department of Natural Resources.\n\nThe species data on this page is taken from the Minnesota DNR, which also uses several labels to indicate a fish's status within Minnesota waters. An endangered fish species is near extinction in Minnesota, a threatened species is likely to become endangered within the foreseeable future, and a special concern species is either extremely uncommon in Minnesota or has unique or highly specific habitat requirements.\n\nSeveral types of Minnesota fish are considered non-native invasive species. A prohibited invasive species is illegal to possess in Minnesota without a permit, and a regulated invasive species is legal to possess but still may not be released into public waters. Many invasive fish species are nonetheless already well-established.\n\n\n\n\n\nAccording to the DNR, these prohibited or regulated invasive fish species threaten Minnesota natural resources but are not currently known to be in Minnesota public waters.\n\n\n\n\nDickson, Tom. \"The Great Minnesota Fish Book\" (University of Minnesota Press, 2008). From walleye to bowfin to stickleback—vivid and entertaining profiles of Minnesota's many different fishes, illustrated by renowned fish artist Joseph Tomelleri. http://www.upress.umn.edu/Books/D/dickson_great.html\n"}
{"id": "2062972", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2062972", "title": "Flying column", "text": "Flying column\n\nA flying column is a small, independent, military land unit capable of rapid mobility and usually composed of all arms. It is often an \"ad hoc\" unit, formed during the course of operations.\n\nThe term is usually, though not necessarily, applied to forces less than the strength of a brigade. As mobility is its primary purpose, a flying column is accompanied by the minimum of equipment. It generally uses suitable fast transport; historically, horses were used, with trucks and helicopters replacing them in modern times.\n\nFlying columns are mentioned by Sun Tzu in his \"Art of War\" in such a fashion that indicates it was not a new concept at the time of his writing. This dates to at least the middle 6th century BC, and possibly the late 8th century BC.\n\nThe Roman army made good use of the flying columns in the early imperial era. One such commander, the proconsul Germanicus Caesar used flying columns to great effect in the early stages of the campaign against one of Rome's greatest enemies, Arminius. Scouts, raiders, and screening forces were used against the Germanic tribes responsible for destroying three Roman legions (the 17th, 18th, and 19th) in the Battle of the Teutoburg Forest.\n\nBoer \"kommando\" in 17th–20th-century South Africa may be regarded as a form of flying column (unlike commandos in the more recent sense). The mobile columns employed against Boer forces, by British Empire forces in the South African War of 1899–1902, were usually of the strength of two battalions of infantry, a battery of artillery, and a squadron of cavalry, almost exactly half that of a Mixed brigade.\n\nFlying columns have also been used in guerrilla warfare, notably the mobile armed units of the Irish Republican Army during the Irish War of Independence 1919–21.\n\nIn the 1920s Defence Scheme No. 1, the proposed Canadian response to an invasion by the United States, Lt. Col. James \"Buster\" Brown suggested \"immediate dispatch of flying columns on the declaration of war\" in order to counter-invade across the border and enact a scorched earth policy, forcing the USA to divert military resources towards the defense of its northern cities.\n\nDuring and shortly after the Anglo-Iraqi War of 1941, British forces employed flying columns code-named \"Kingcol\", \"Mercol\" and \"Gocol\". \"Kingcol\" advanced into Iraq from Jordan and Palestine.\n\n"}
{"id": "2062976", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2062976", "title": "Eastern religions", "text": "Eastern religions\n\nThe Eastern religions are the religions that originated in East, South and Southeast Asia and thus have dissimilarities with Western religions. This includes the East Asian religions (Shintoism, Sindoism, Taoism and Confucianism), Indian religions (Hinduism, Buddhism, Sikhism and Jainism) as well as animistic indigenous religions.\n\nThis East-West religious distinction, just as with the East-West culture distinction, and the implications that arise from it, is broad and not precise. Furthermore, the geographical distinction has less meaning in the current context of global transculturation.\n\nWhile many Western observers attempt to distinguish between Eastern philosophies and religions, this is a distinction that does not exist in some Eastern traditions.\n\nReligions originating in the Indian subcontinent include Hinduism, Buddhism, Jainism, and Sikhism. The theologies and philosophies of these religions have several concepts in common, such as \"dharma\", \"karma\", \"maya\" and \"samsara\".\n\nHinduism originated on the Indian subcontinent and was related to many other religious traditions outside the subcontinent, in places like ancient Central Asia and ancient Iran. It is considered by some to be the world's oldest extant major religion. Some consider Hinduism to originate from the Indus Valley civilization along with animism of the pre-Harappan migrants as well as the Indo-Aryan migrants. Hinduism contains a vast body of scripture, divided as revealed and remembered, expounding on dharma, or religious living. Hindus consider the \"Vedas\" and the \"Upanishads\" as being among the foremost in authority, importance and antiquity. The \"\", a treatise excerpted from the \"\", is sometimes called a summary of the spiritual teachings of the \"Vedas\". It is difficult to identify any universal belief or practice in Hinduism, although prominent themes include: \"Dharma\", \"Samsara\", \"Karma\", and \"Moksha\". Hinduism is sometimes called a polytheistic religion, but this is an oversimplification. Hinduism includes a diverse collection of schools whose beliefs span monotheism, polytheism, pantheism, monism and even atheism. For instance, the Advaita Vedanta school holds that there is only one causal entity (Brahman), which manifests itself into all the various living and non-living forms that we observe, whereas traditions such as Vaishnavism and Shaivism worship Vishnu and Shiva in a relatively more monotheistic sense (caused by a differentiation between the parabrahman and atman). A number of scholars even consider the Samkhya school of thought to have atheistic leanings.\n\nBuddhism is a nontheistic Indian religion and philosophy. Buddhism was founded around the 5th century BCE in India by Siddhartha Gautama, the Buddha, with the Four Noble Truths and the Eightfold Path as its central principles. According to the scriptures, the Four Noble Truths were revealed by the Buddha in his first sermon after attaining enlightenment. The schools of Buddhism are typically divided into Theravada and Mahayana. In academic circles, Mahayana is further divided into East Asian and Tibetan Buddhism. Buddhism teaches that someone who becomes enlightened without instruction is a buddha. The primary goal of Buddhism is the liberation of the practitioner from samsara. Buddhists hold this to be the solution to the problem of suffering.\n\nJainism is the religion of the followers of Mahavira. He is said to be the 24th Tirthankara, or the 24th in a line of teachers espousing Jain principles. Jains reject the Vedas and highlight the practice of austerity. Jain philosophy states that the jiva, or soul, can escape the cycle of rebirth and death through strict ethical behavior. When nothing remains but the purity of the jiva, that person is called a \"jina\", or winner, which is the origin of the term Jain. Karma is viewed as an accumulation that burdens the soul, causing attachment and suffering. Ahimsa, or non-violence, is central to Jain faith, philosophy and practice. It is interpreted very strictly as prohibiting all forms of harm to other living beings. Due to this, Jainism requires a strict vegetarian lifestyle. \"Ahimsa\" also applies to speaking, as one's words can cause harm and suffering.\n\nSikhism is a religion which began in Punjab of Northern India. It is founded on the teachings of Guru Nanak Dev and the nine human gurus that followed. He received a vision to preach the way to enlightenment and God in Sultanpur. His views rejected the traditional worships and caste of the Hindu faith. Freedom from reincarnation is tied to remembrance and repetition on one universal God. God is formless and simultaneously in every form. Sikhs believe that there is one universal God who is the ultimate creator, sustainer, and destroyer. The Gurū Granth Sāhib are the central scriptures intended to preserve hymns and the teachings of the Sikh Gurus and other saints from Hindu and Sufi traditions. Rituals, religious ceremonies or empty worship are considered of little use and Sikhs are discouraged from fasting or going on pilgrimages. The tenets of Sikhism include (1) honest living/earning (2) tithing and giving alms (3) chanting on God. Sikhism also has a strong warrior tradition which arose in defense of religious freedom and human rights from a tyrannical Moghul occupation of India.\n\nThe group of East Asian religions or philosophies, also known as Taoic religions, may be considered as forming a group within world religions comparable to the Abrahamic or Dharmic groups. The Taoic faiths claim at least 500 million members worldwide.\n\nTaoism, also known as Daoism, comprises a variety of related religious and philosophical traditions. Categorization of Taoist sects and movements is very controversial. Taoist propriety and ethics places an emphasis on the Three Jewels of the Tao; love, moderation, humility. Taoist theology focuses on doctrines of wu wei (\"non-action\"), spontaneity, humanism, relativism and emptiness. \n\nMost traditional Chinese Taoists are polytheistic. Taoism or Daoism is a type of belief, or a way of thinking about life. It is at least 2,500 years old and it comes from China. Taoism is now said to be a philosophy. Tao (or Dao, 道) is the name of the force or the \"Way\" that Taoists believe makes everything in the world. There are disagreements regarding the proper composition of this pantheon. Popular Taoism typically presents the Jade Emperor as the head deity. Intellectual, or \"elite\", Taoism usually presents Laozi and the Three Pure Ones at the top of the pantheon. Nature and ancestor spirits are common in popular Taoism. But this sort of shamanism is eschewed for an emphasis on internal alchemy among the \"elite\" Taoists. Tao itself is rarely an object of worship, being treated more like the South Asian concept of atman.\n\nShinto is an animistic folk religion practiced in Japan. Shinto literally means \"the way of the gods\". Many Japanese Shintoists also identify themselves as Buddhists. Japanese Pure Land Buddhism is deeply intertwined with the Shinto faith. Shinto practitioners commonly affirm tradition, family, nature, cleanliness and ritual observation as core values. Taoic influence is significant in their beliefs about nature and self-mastery.\n\nRitual cleanliness is a central part of Shinto life. Shrines have a significant place in Shintoism, reflecting the animistic veneration of the kami. \"Folk\", or \"popular\", Shinto places an emphasis on shamanism, particularly divination, spirit possession and faith healing. \"Sect\" Shinto is a diverse group including mountain-worshippers and Confucian Shintoists.\n\nConfucianism is a complex system of moral, social and political thought, influential in the history of East Asia. It is debatable whether Confucianism is a religion or simply an ethical system. It is commonly associated with legalism but it rejects legalism for ritualism. It also endorses meritocracy as the ideal of nobility. Confucianism has a complicated system governing duties and etiquette in relationships. Confucian ethics focus on familial duty, loyalty and humaneness. \n\nConfucianism tolerates the Chinese folk recognition of the existence of animistic spirits, ghosts and deities. It approves paying them proper respect, but at a more fundamental level encourages avoiding them. Confucian thought is notable as the framework upon which the syncretic Neo-Confucianism was built.\n\nVietnamese folk religion ( is the largest religion in Vietnam with about 45.3% of the Vietnamese population[1] that are associated with this religion.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2062984", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2062984", "title": "Higher-dimensional Einstein gravity", "text": "Higher-dimensional Einstein gravity\n\nHigher-dimensional Einstein gravity is any of various physical theories that attempt to generalise to higher dimensions various results of the well established theory of standard (four-dimensional) Einstein gravity, that is, general relativity. This attempt at generalisation has been strongly influenced in recent decades by string theory.\n\nAt present, this work can probably be most fairly described as extended theoretical speculation. Currently, it has no \"direct\" observational and experimental support, in contrast to four-dimensional general relativity. However, this theoretical work has led to the possibility of proving the existence of extra dimensions. This is best demonstrated by the proof of Harvey Reall and Roberto Emparan that there is a 'black ring' solution in 5 dimensions. If such a 'black ring' could be produced in a particle accelerator such as the Large Hadron Collider, this would provide the evidence that higher dimensions exist.\n\nThe higher-dimensional generalization of the Kerr metric was discovered by Myers and Perry. Like the Kerr metric, the Myers-Perry metric has spherical horizon topology. The construction involves making a Kerr-Schild ansatz; by a similar method, the solution has been generalized to include a cosmological constant. The black ring is a solution of five-dimensional general relativity. It inherits its name from the fact that its event horizon is topologically S × S. This is in contrast to other known black hole solutions in five dimensions which have horizon topology S.\n\nIn four dimensions, Hawking proved that the topology of the event horizon of a non-rotating black hole must be spherical. Because the proof uses the Gauss–Bonnet theorem, it does not generalize to higher dimensions. The discovery of black ring solutions in five dimensions shows that other topologies are allowed in higher dimensions, but it is unclear precisely which topologies are allowed. It has been shown that the horizon must be of positive Yamabe type, meaning that it must admit a metric of positive scalar curvature.\n\n"}
{"id": "2062993", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2062993", "title": "Graham Schweig", "text": "Graham Schweig\n\nGraham M. Schweig was born in Manhattan, New York and raised in Washington, DC. He joined the faculty at Christopher Newport University in August, 2000, and is currently Professor of Religion and , Director of Studies in Religion, and former inaugural Director of the Asian Studies program. He is also Distinguished Research and Teaching Faculty at The Mira & Ajay Shingal Center for Dharma Studies of the Graduate Theological Union in Berkeley, California beginning June, 2017. \n\nSchweig earned his B.A. in Religion and Interdisciplinary Studies from American University, an M.A. in South Asian Studies from the University of Chicago, an M.T.S. (Master of Theological Studies) and a Th.M. (Master of Theology) from Harvard University, and his doctorate in Comparative Religion is from Harvard University. He was a resident fellow of the Center for the Study of World Religions at Harvard. Schweig was Lecturer at Duke University and later Visiting Associate Professor of Sanskrit at the University of Virginia while teaching at Christopher Newport University. Since 2007, Schweig has presented over three dozen invited lectures in his field at the Smithsonian Institution in Washington, DC. Schweig is an \"experienced registered yoga teacher at the 500 hour level (ERYT-500 as well as YACEP)\" with Yoga Alliance, and he has held numerous teacher training workshops in the areas of yoga philosophy, history of yoga, Sanskrit for yoga teachers, and advanced trainings in meditation for teachers of yoga. \n\nSchweig has over one hundred publications, such as journal articles, encyclopedia articles, reviews, book chapters, along with several books in the field. His book, \"Dance of Divine Love: India's Classic Sacred Love Story: The Rasa Lila of Krishna\" (Princeton University Press, 2005) presents an introduction to, comprehensive treatment and translation of the Bhagavata Purana's five chapters on the Rasa Dance of Krishna with the cowherd maidens of Vraja. Another of his works is an introduction to, translation and interpretation of the Bhagavad-gita, entitled \"Bhagavad Gita: The Beloved Lord's Secret Love Song\" (Harper One / Harper Collins Publishers, 2010). His most recent work is \"A Living Theology of Krishna Bhakti: Essential Teachings of A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami Prabhupāda\", by Tamal Krishna Goswami, edited with an introduction and conclusion by Graham M. Schweig (Oxford University Press, New York, 2012).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2062997", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2062997", "title": "Western religions", "text": "Western religions\n\nThe Western religions refers to religions that originated within Western culture, and are thus historically, culturally, and theologically distinct from the Eastern religions. The term Abrahamic religions (Islam, Christianity and Judaism) is often used instead of using the East and West terminology.\n\nWestern culture itself was significantly influenced by the emergence of Christianity and its adoption as the state church of the Roman Empire in the late 4th century and the term \"Christendom\" largely indicates this intertwined history. Western Christianity was significantly influenced by Hellenistic religion (notably Platonism) as well as the Roman imperial cult. Western Christianity is based on Roman Catholicism (Latin Rite), as opposed to Eastern Orthodoxy, from which it was divided by the Great Schism of the 11th century, and further includes all Protestant traditions splitting off Roman Catholicism from the 16th century.\n\nSince the 19th century, Western religion has diversified into numerous new religious movements, including Occultism, Spiritism and diverse forms of Neopaganism.\n\n\"The West\" as a culture or civilization historically evolved out of Greco-Roman classical antiquity. These cultures had polytheistic religions, viz. Greek polytheism and Roman polytheism. \"Eastern\" influences on these religions are evident from the earliest times, the Orientalizing period at the very beginning of Greek antiquity.\n\nDuring Hellenism and the Roman Empire period, \"Eastern\" (Oriental) religions exerted a considerable influence on \"Western\" religion, giving rise to Persian influenced traditions like Gnosticism and Mithraism, as well as Egyptian and \"Chaldean\" influence on mystery religions (Orphism), astrology and magic. Early Christianity itself is a further example of Orientalizing influence on the later Roman Empire.\n\nDuring the same period, inherited traditions of native Roman religion were marginalized or overlaid by \"interpretatio graeca\", and the Roman imperial cult evolved into a civil religion which involved state ritual rather than religious faith or experience. Celtic and Germanic religion was described by Roman ethnography as primitive, but at the same time as pure or unspoiled compared to the so-called urban decadence of Rome.\n\nWestern Christianity is based on Roman Catholicism (Latin Rite), as opposed to Eastern Orthodoxy, from which it was divided by the Great Schism of the 11th century. Western Christianity itself was divided by the Protestant Reformation in the 16th century, and pronouncedly \"Western\" forms of Christianity include Puritanism and Evangelicalism, movements resulting from the various \"Great Awakenings\" in the 18th to 20th century English-speaking world and popularly practiced in the United States.\n\nFor at least a millennium and a half, Europe has been nearly equivalent to Christian culture. The Christian culture was the predominant force in Western civilization, guiding the course of philosophy, art, music, science, social structure and architecture.\n\nFollowing the religious wars of the 16th to 17th centuries, the Age of Enlightenment of the 18th century paved the way for a detachment of society and politics from religious questions. Inspired by the American Revolution, the French Revolution brought the idea of secularization and a laicist state granting freedom of religion to Europe. After the turmoils of the Napoleonic Wars, this development caught hold in other parts of Europe, utilizing the German mediatization and the separation of church and state in various European constitutions drawn up after the revolutions of 1848.\n\nThe principle of religious freedom introduced in Western society in the early 19th century facilitated the emergence of various new religious movements. First examples were derived from western occultism and the tradition of secret societies such as the Freemasons, but from the later 19th century, the influence of Eastern religions, notably Buddhism and Hinduism played an increasing role. From the mid 20th century, Eastern and Western spiritual traditions were increasingly syncretized in the various movements associated with the New Age and Neopagan countercultures.\n\nThe Western world, taken as consisting of Europe, the Americas, Australia-New Zealand and (in part) South Africa and Philippines, remains predominantly Western Christian: 77.4% in North America (2012), 90% in Latin America (2011), close to 76.2% in Europe (2010), (includes 35% of European Christians who are Eastern Orthodox especially in Eastern Europe, 76%, not properly part of \"Western religion\", 46% of European Christians are Roman Catholic, 18% of European Christians are Protestant), 61.1% in Australia-New Zealand (2011), 79% in South Africa and 90% in the Philippines.\n\nThe second largest religions in all these regions are smaller by at least an order of magnitude, Islam in Europe (6%) with about 4%, Islam in Canada with about 3%, Judaism in the United States with about 1.7%, and Islam in Australia with about 1.7%.\n\nMost non-Christians in the Western world are irreligious, 22% in Australia, 40% in New Zealand, 18.2% in Europe, 16.4% in the USA and 16% in Canada, (Latin America, South Africa and Philippines are more religious). This is a reflection of the tradition of secular humanism which culminated in the 18th century Age of Enlightenment.\n\nThroughout the Western world paganism is becoming increasingly popular.\n\nThere remains a minority of the order of 5% of the population in the Western world which adheres to non-Western religions, mostly due to recent immigration, but to some extent also due to proselytization, notably conversion to various sects of Buddhism and Hinduism in the context of the New Age movement in the later part of the 20th century.\n\n"}
{"id": "2063004", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2063004", "title": "Texas's 12th congressional district", "text": "Texas's 12th congressional district\n\nTexas's 12th congressional district in the United States House of Representatives is in the north portion of the state of Texas. As of 2017, the 12th district contained 806,551 people and had a median income of $67,703. It consists of the western half of Tarrant County, as well as all of Parker County and an eastern portion of Wise County. Fragments of the Dallas–Fort Worth metroplex are included in the district. The district is currently represented by Republican Kay Granger, who was first elected in 1996. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "2063006", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2063006", "title": "Doshi", "text": "Doshi\n\nDoshi is a fairly common surname in India. The roots can be traced back a few hundred years. There were different stories — one is from the \"History of Oswals\" basically from Rajasthan original Sonigra Kshatriya Rajput. The Gujjar tribe still resides in the village. As Gujaratis are from the Gujjar tribe and people with the Doshi surname are Gujaratis, this village is assumed to be the origin of the surname.\n\nAccording to \"Oswal Jain Gyati Mahodya\" (ancient book on the history of Oswals) the Doshi are descended from Thakur Heer Singh Sonigara, ruler of Bhatia (old name of Jaisalmer) in Rajasthan in 160 AD.\n\nA Gujarati story which Narsinh Mehta mentions the Hindu deity Krishna appearing as a \"doshi vanio\". A \"doshi\" was somebody who carried a \"dosh\", or a sack of grocery/clothes, to sell as he wandered. This is similar to another translation of \"doshi\" as a rough cloth seller. Most Gujaratis believe this is the story behind the last name \"Doshi\".\n\nA third possibility is a direct translation, taken literally from the Hindu word \"dosh\" (meaning, in this case, guilt), defines \"doshi\" as someone who has been found guilty of a crime. A historical anecdote uses this definition of the word to explain how people assumed the name. According to Kishor Doshi, former president of the Houston Jain Society, the research he has done on this topic indicates \"Doshi\" was a last name given by a 16th-century king in Gujarat to all of his subjects who did not participate in a compulsory census. He pronounced them guilty (in Gujarati, \"doshi theravya\"). Not many people believe in this possibility given the fact that the state of Gujarat was never under the rule of one king. (Present day Gujarat is the result of a merger of tens of princely kingdoms.)\n\n"}
{"id": "2063011", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2063011", "title": "Love wave", "text": "Love wave\n\nIn elastodynamics, Love waves, named after Augustus Edward Hough Love, are horizontally polarized surface waves. The Love wave is a result of the interference of many shear waves (S-waves) guided by an elastic layer, which is \"welded\" to an elastic half space on one side while bordering a vacuum on the other side. In seismology, Love waves (also known as Q waves (\"Q\"uer: German for lateral)) are surface seismic waves that cause horizontal shifting of the Earth during an earthquake. Augustus Edward Hough Love predicted the existence of Love waves mathematically in 1911. They form a distinct class, different from other types of seismic waves, such as P-waves and S-waves (both body waves), or Rayleigh waves (another type of surface wave). Love waves travel with a lower velocity than P- or S- waves, but faster than Rayleigh waves. These waves are observed only when there is a low velocity layer overlying a high velocity layer/ sub–layers.\n\nThe particle motion of a Love wave forms a horizontal line perpendicular to the direction of propagation (i.e. are transverse waves). Moving deeper into the material, motion can decrease to a \"node\" and then alternately increase and decrease as one examines deeper layers of particles. The amplitude, or maximum particle motion, often decreases rapidly with depth.\n\nSince Love waves travel on the Earth's surface, the strength (or amplitude) of the waves decrease exponentially with the depth of an earthquake. However, given their confinement to the surface, their amplitude decays only as formula_1, where formula_2 represents the distance the wave has travelled from the earthquake. Surface waves therefore decay more slowly with distance than do body waves, which travel in three dimensions. Large earthquakes may generate Love waves that travel around the Earth several times before dissipating.\n\nSince they decay so slowly, Love waves are the most destructive outside the immediate area of the focus or epicentre of an earthquake. They are what most people feel directly during an earthquake.\n\nIn the past, it was often thought that animals like cats and dogs could predict an earthquake before it happened. However, they are simply more sensitive to ground vibrations than humans and able to detect the subtler body waves that precede Love waves, like the P-waves and the S-waves.\n\nThe conservation of linear momentum of a linear elastic material can be written as \nwhere formula_4 is the displacement vector and formula_5 is the stiffness tensor. Love waves are a special solution (formula_4) that satisfy this system of equations. We typically use a Cartesian coordinate system (formula_7) to describe Love waves.\n\nConsider an isotropic linear elastic medium in which the elastic properties are functions of only the formula_8 coordinate, i.e., the Lamé parameters and the mass density can be expressed as formula_9. Displacements formula_10 produced by Love waves as a function of time (formula_11) have the form \nThese are therefore antiplane shear waves perpendicular to the formula_13 plane. The function formula_14 can be expressed as the superposition of harmonic waves with varying wave numbers (formula_15) and frequencies (formula_16). Consider a single harmonic wave, i.e.,\nwhere formula_18 is the imaginary unit, i.e. formula_19. The stresses caused by these displacements are\nIf we substitute the assumed displacements into the equations for the conservation of momentum, we get a simplified equation\nThe boundary conditions for a Love wave are that the surface tractions at the free surface formula_22 must be zero. Another requirement is that the stress component formula_23 in a layer medium must be continuous at the interfaces of the layers. To convert the second order differential equation in formula_24 into two first order equations, we express this stress component in the form\nto get the first order conservation of momentum equations\nThe above equations describe an eigenvalue problem whose solution eigenfunctions can be found by a number of numerical methods. Another common, and powerful, approach is the propagator matrix method (also called the matricant approach).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2063012", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2063012", "title": "Chrysoviridae", "text": "Chrysoviridae\n\nChrysoviridae is a family of viruses. Members of the family are called chrysoviruses.\n\nThe following genera are recognized:\n"}
{"id": "2063022", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2063022", "title": "Defiant Theatre", "text": "Defiant Theatre\n\nDefiant Theatre was a Chicago-based theatre company founded in 1993 by a group of students from the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, which includes Nick Offerman. The eclectic troupe specialized in productions that emphasized inventive stagecraft, perverse and controversial topics, and skillful stage combat. While the company is highly regarded for original plays such as \"Action Movie: The Play\" and \"Godbaby\", Defiant Theatre received notable attention for productions of plays by Caryl Churchill, Alfred Jarry, Sarah Kane, and William Shakespeare. Chicago Magazine named Defiant the \"Best Experimental Theatre\" in their August 1999 Best of Chicago issue. The company disbanded in 2004.\n\nby William Shakespeare\ndirected by Christopher Johnson\nOpened Friday, November 19, 1993 at The Greenview Arts Center\n\n\"Rosencrantz and Guildenstern may be dead; Defiant Theatre's \"Hamlet\" most certainly is not.\" - Chicago Reader \nby John Guare\ndirected by Darren Critz \nOpened Friday, February 11, 1994 at American Theater Company\n\n\"A smoother, more consistent presentation might not have been able to reach the emotional heights of Defiant Theatre's \"Landscape of the Body\".\" - Newcity \nby Darren Critz\ndirected by Joe Foust\nCHICAGO PREMIERE\nat Strawdog Theatre Company\n\n\"Defiant Theatre has come up with some splendidly gruesome, darkly comic stage images... Defiant Theatre is clearly a company to keep an eye on.\" - Chicago Reader \n\"Do you have good taste? Check it at the door.\" - Gay Chicago Magazine \n\nby Harold Pinter\n\"The Dumb Waiter\" directed by Joe Foust\n\"Victoria Station\" directed by Rob Kimmel\nat Angel Island\n\n\"Kindles with riveting slowness to a small but triumphant climax.\" - Chicago Reader \nby John Guare\ndirected by Darren Critz\nat American Theater Company\n\n\"What is most thrilling about this production is how well it reveals the subtleties of Guare's play.\" - Chicago Reader \nbased on the novella by Stephen King\nadapted and directed by Christopher Johnson\nWORLD PREMIERE\nOpened Thursday, May 4, 1995 at The Preston Bradley Center\n\n\"It's given me vivid nightmares for the past two nights (and counting).\" - Chicago Reader \n\nby Brad Fraser\ndirected by Linda Gillum & Barb Wruck Thometz\nCHICAGO PREMIERE\nOpened Saturday, January 13, 1996 at Strawdog Theatre Company\n\n\"The Defiant production has just the right tone.\" - Chicago Tribune \n\"It just becomes disgustingly irresistible.\" - Gay Chicago Magazine \nbased upon Alfred Jarry's \"Ubu Roi\"\nadapted by Joe Foust & Richard Ragsdale\ndirected by Joe Foust\nWORLD PREMIERE\nOpened Saturday, June 1, 1996 at American Theater Company\n\n\"The most sensational off-Loop show to hit the stage in a very long time... The production is truly remarkable.\" - Chicago Tribune \n\"Breathtaking disregard for their own safety.\" - Chicago Reader \n\"Simultaneously assaulting and seductive, and violently metaphoric.\" - Newcity \nbased upon the novel by Thomas Harris\nadapted and directed by Christopher Johnson\nWORLD PREMIERE\nOpened Wednesday, October 23, 1996 at The Firehouse\n\n\"Defiant Theatre pulls no punches in this production that could have easily tumbled over into camp.\" - Windy City Times \n\nby Charles Ludlam\ndirected by Jim Slonina\nOpened Monday, May 5, 1997 at National Pastime Theater\n\n\"Blisteringly intelligent comedy.\" - Chicago Sun-Times \n\"A nonstop laugh riot.\" - Newcity \n\"She's way fun!\" - Nightlines \nby Albert Camus\ndirected by Richard Ragsdale\nOpened Monday, July 21, 1997 at The Griffin Theatre\n\n\"Defiant presents plenty of philosophy with fornication.\" - Nightlines \nby Caryl Churchill\ndirected by Linda Gillum\nCHICAGO PREMIERE\nOpened Monday, October 13, 1997 at American Theater Company\n\n\"An ensemble work in every aspect... They've put on one hell of a show.\" - Chicago Tribune \n\"Defiant Theatre has essentially created a dark puppet extravaganza.\" - Chicago Sun-Times \n\"***1⁄2 The eerie tale is wrapped in a keen and often inspired visual design.\" - Gay Chicago Magazine \n\nby Sarah Kane\ndirected by Lisa Rothschiller\nAMERICAN PREMIERE\nOpened Wednesday, June 10, 1998 at American Theater Company\n\n\"It's punk, pulp fiction classicism, whipped into a frenzy in a tight, stylish production.\" - Chicago Tribune \n\"**** We're appalled by this heinous clan — but, boy, I loved going to their party.\" - Gay Chicago Magazine \nby Joe Foust & Richard Ragsdale\ndirected by Joe Foust\nWORLD PREMIERE\nOpened Wednesday, July 22, 1998 at American Theater Company\n\n\"Unforgettable theatrical thrills.\" - Chicago Tribune \n\"\"Action Movie\" charms its audience with sly nods to its predictability.\" - Chicago Sun-Times \n\"A visceral, confrontational theatergoing experience... The company has managed to put all the blockbuster films this summer to shame.\" - Chicago Reader \nby Mac Wellman\ndirected by Richard Ragsdale\nCHICAGO PREMIERE\nOpened Monday, October 5, 1998 at Charybdis Multi-Arts Complex\n\n\"Defiant gives the script's malevolent camp a pointed recklessness.\" - Chicago Reader \n\"A healthy dose of both heaving bosoms and good-old fashioned shtick.\" - Newcity \n\nby Charles Ludlam\ndirected by Jim Slonina\nOpened Thursday, March 11, 1999 at Victory Gardens Theater Downstairs Studio\n\n\"Gleefully indulges Ludlam's cheese-ball side... Gloriously awful.\" - Chicago Reader \n\"A shared culture of B-movie proportions while being lovingly, and skillfully, over-the-top theatrical.\" - Newcity \n\"A colorful diversion. Or is that perversion?... Full of wit and energy, it's well worth checking out.\" - Windy City Times \nby Joe Foust & Richard Ragsdale\ndirected by Joe Foust\nOpened Wednesday, June 16, 1999 at American Theater Company\n\n\"A veritable feast of outstanding stage combat, fantastic puppets, inventive directorial ideas... It's more fun than most any summer film.\" - Chicago Tribune \n\"The play's endless stunts are just as brilliantly executed and breathtaking as they were before.\" - Chicago Reader \n\"Defiant has set themselves up for a nice franchise.\" - Newcity \nby Joan Schenkar\ndirected by Linda Gillum\nMIDWEST PREMIERE\nOpened Wednesday, November 3, 1999 at National Pastime Theater\n\n\"A very interesting play with serious intellectual heft... There's no doubting this troupe's stellar theatrical chops.\" - Chicago Tribune \n\"The Defiant folks prove once again why they are among the most creative companies currently working in Chicago.\" - Windy City Times \n\nby Deborah Pryor\ndirected by Richard Ragsdale\nat Victory Gardens Theater Downstairs Studio\n\n\"Rich with storytelling make-believe.\" - Citysearch\nby Christopher Johnson\ndirected by Jim Slonina\nWORLD PREMIERE\nOpened Friday, June 16, 2000 at American Theater Company\n\n\"A manic production by one local company that lives up to its name--Defiant Theatre.\" - Chicago Sun-Times\n\"\"Godbaby\"'s scholarship alone would be an accomplishment worthy of commendation. That the Defiant company makes it so much fun is an additional blessing.\" - Windy City Times\nby William Shakespeare\ndirected by Christopher Johnson\nOpened Friday, October 27, 2000 at The Viaduct\n\n\"The whole production has the rough, raw air of a medieval mystery play, charged with violence and spiritualism.\" - Chicago Tribune\n\"If Shakespeare were this exciting in school, he'd be bigger than Harry Potter.\" - Chicago Free Press\n\"If there's one word to describe Defiant Theatre's \"Macbeth\", it's \"Wow!\" - Lerner Booster\n\nby Sarah Kane\ndirected by Lisa Rothschiller\nAMERICAN PREMIERE\nOpened Friday, March 16, 2001 at American Theater Company\n\n\"A contemporary night of the living dead.\" - Chicago Sun-Times\n\"Everyone in this production, from the light designer to each of the actors, takes big risks. But the risks pay off in poetry.\" - Newcity\nby Lee Blessing\ndirected by Justin Fletcher\nOpened Friday, September 14, 2001 at The Viaduct\n\n\"Defiant's well-crafted production is exceptionally well-acted.\" - Chicago Tribune\nwritten and directed by Joe Foust\nWORLD PREMIERE\nOpened Saturday, December 8, 2001 at American Theater Company\n\n\"Its comic-strip overkill is amusing and invigorating.\" - Chicago Tribune\n\"The Defiant ones have clearly worked their asses off to produce a mind-blowing show.\" - Chicago Free Press\n\nby Jane Martin\ndirected by Linda Gillum\nCHICAGO PREMIERE\nOpened Friday, March 29, 2002 at The Viaduct\n\n\"Defiant does gothic redneck pulp far better than most... It's great tacky fun.\" - Chicago Tribune\n\"**** Defiant hits the bulls-eye.\" - Gay Chicago Magazine\n\"An evening of good, clean, slam-bang messy fun.\" - Windy City Times\nby Christopher Johnson\ndirected by Christopher Johnson & Jim Slonina\nWORLD PREMIERE\nOpened Friday, July 5, 2002 at American Theater Company\n\n\"A wild ride on a crazily off-kilter roller coaster.\" - Chicago Sun-Times\nby John Kohler, Larry Larson, Levi Lee and Rebecca Wackler\ndirected by Jim Slonina\nMIDWEST PREMIERE\nOpened Thursday, September 12, 2002 at A Red Orchid Theatre\n\n\"The well-versed actors fully commit to the material.\" - Gay Chicago Magazine\n\nby William Shakespeare\ndirected by Christopher Johnson\nOpened Friday, January 17, 2003 at The Viaduct\n\n\"A mixed-up contemporary shebang, full of unruly life... Some of the violence is just plain fabulous.\" - Chicago Tribune\nfeaturing \"Fabulon Historifarcicon\"\nby Christopher Johnson\ndirected by Jim Slonina\nOpened Friday, August 8, 2003 at The Viaduct\n\n\"It was a gas... Defiant has built its reputation on excess and outrage.\" - Chicago Tribune\nby Steven Dietz\nadapted from the novel by Bram Stoker\ndirected by Richard Ragsdale\nOpened Sunday, October 12, 2003 at The Vittum Theatre\n\"Defiant Theatre, not a troupe to shy away from the eek, the ook or even the odd \"uck,\" has a spirited blood-sucker now on display, just in time for Halloween.\" - Chicago Tribune \n\nby Joe Foust & Richard Ragsdale\ndirected by Joe Foust\nOpened Sunday, April 18, 2004 at The Chopin Theatre\n\n\"Its replication of and commentary on the clichés of its testosterone-fueled genre is as timely as the product it mocks.\" - Windy City Times\nbased on the novel by George MacDonald Fraser\nadapted by Justin Fletcher & Richard Ragsdale\ndirected by Justin Fletcher\nOpened Sunday, June 27, 2004 at The Chopin Theatre\n\n\"A textbook example of Chicago pop-fusion theater.\" - Chicago Sun-Times\nby Anthony Burgess\nadapted from his novel\ndirected by Christopher Johnson\nOpened Thursday, September 9, 2004 at Gallery 37's Storefront Theater\n\n\"There's more than enough here to remind us of why we'll miss this historically important theater company.\" - Chicago Tribune\n\n\"Ubu Raw\"\nAfter Dark Award\n\n\"Red Dragon\"\nJoseph Jefferson Citations\n\n\"The Skriker\"\nJoseph Jefferson Citations\nAfter Dark Award\n\"Action Movie: The Play\"\nAfter Dark Awards\n\n\"Cleansed\"\nAfter Dark Awards\n\n\"Fortinbras\"\nJoseph Jefferson Citation\n\n\"Flaming Guns of the Purple Sage\"\nAfter Dark Award\n\n\"Action Movie: The Play\"\nJoseph Jefferson Citations\n\n"}
{"id": "2063029", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2063029", "title": "Danièle Delorme", "text": "Danièle Delorme\n\nGabrielle Danièle Marguerite Andrée Girard (9 October 1926 – 17 October 2015), known by her stage name Danièle Delorme, was a French actress and film producer.\n\nBorn in Levallois-Perret, Hauts-de-Seine, to the painter and resistance worker André Girard and his wife, she was a talented pianist but was best known for her role in the cinema of France.\n\nShe acted in the first of her more than sixty films in 1942 using her birth name but then adopted the stage name Delorme. She is best remembered for her starring role in the 1948 original French production of \"Gigi\" and in the 1950s \"\", both of which were based on novels by Colette.\n\nIn 1945, Delorme married actor Daniel Gélin with whom she had a son, Xavier (1946–1999). Delorme divorced Gélin in 1954 after he admitted having an affair with Romanian-born model Marie Christine Schneider, that produced a daughter, Maria Schneider. Delorme's son was a successful actor who died of cancer in 1999, aged 53. In 1956, Delorme married actor/filmmaker Yves Robert who partnered her in an award-winning film production company. They remained married until his death in 2002.\n\nDelorme served as a member of the Caméra d'Or jury at the 1988 Cannes Film Festival.\n\nDelorme died in Paris on 17 October 2015. She was 89.\n\n"}
{"id": "2063035", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2063035", "title": "The Monk's Tale", "text": "The Monk's Tale\n\n\"The Monk's Tale\" is one of \"The Canterbury Tales\" by Geoffrey Chaucer.\n\nThe Monk's tale to the other pilgrims is a collection of 17 short stories, exempla, on the theme of tragedy. The tragic endings of these historical figures are recounted: Lucifer, Adam, Samson, Hercules, Nebuchadnezzar, Belshazzar, Zenobia, Pedro of Castile, Peter I of Cyprus, Bernabò Visconti, Ugolino of Pisa, Nero, Holofernes, Antiochus, Alexander the Great, Julius Caesar, and Croesus. \n\nSome literary critics believe that a large portion of the tale may have been written before the rest of the \"Canterbury Tales\" and that the four most contemporary figures were added at a later point. A likely dating for this hypothetical first draft of the text would be the 1370s, shortly after Chaucer returned from a trip to Italy, where he was exposed to Giovanni Boccaccio's \"Concerning the Falls of Illustrious Men\", as well as other works such as the \"Decameron\". The tragedy of Bernabò Visconti must have been written after 1385, the date of the protagonist's death. The basic structure for the tale is modeled after the Boccaccio's \"Illustrious Men\", while the tale of Ugolino of Pisa is retold from Dante's \"Inferno\".\n\nThe Monk, in his prologue, claims to have a hundred of these stories in his cell, but the Knight stops him after only 17, saying that they have had enough sadness. The order of the stories within the tale is different in several early manuscripts, and if the more contemporary stories were at the end of his tale, Chaucer may wish to suggest that the Knight has another motivation for interrupting than sheer boredom. In line 51 of the General Prologue, it is said of the Knight that: \"At Alisaundre he was, whan it was wonne\". If the Knight were at the capture of Alexandria, then the implication is that he was probably part of the crusade organised by Peter I of Cyprus and that the reader should presume that hearing of the tragedy of his former military commander is what prompts him to interrupt the monk.\n\nThe form of tragedy depicted in \"The Monk's Tale\" is not that argued in Aristotle's \"Poetics\", but rather \"the medieval idea that the protagonist is victim rather than hero, raised up and then cast down by the workings of Fortune.\"\n\nThe text, despite the Monk's insistence upon a strict, homogeneous definition of tragedy, presents as equally tragic a series of tales that diverges considerably in content, tone, and form. For example, the structure and matter of the tales of Ugolino and Nero are, effectively, mirror images of one another. Chaucer's intention may be to have the Monk present his literary dogma and overly strict generic classifications in such a way that they appear to the reader to be unconvincing.\n\nThe metrical form of \"The Monk's Tale\" is the most complex of all the pilgrims', an eight-line stanza with rhyme scheme ABABBCBC. Usually, a strong, syntactical link exists between the fourth and fifth lines, which some literary theorists feel prevents the stanza from breaking in half. This metrical style gives an elevated, spacious tone to \"The Monk's Tale\" that is not always evidenced in the diction. In fact, the language is often simple and direct except in those instances of moralizing, whether discussing God or Fortune, when the vocabulary becomes weightier.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2063037", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2063037", "title": "List of Minnesota aquatic plants", "text": "List of Minnesota aquatic plants\n\nAquatic plants native to Minnesota:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2063039", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2063039", "title": "Meir Friedmann", "text": "Meir Friedmann\n\nMeir (Ish Shalom) Friedmann (July 10, 1831, at Kraszna (), district of Kashau (Košice Region), Kingdom of Hungary, Austrian Empire – 1908, at Vienna, Austria-Hungary) was an Austrian-Hungarian Jewish scholar. His editions of the \"Midrash\" are the standard texts. His chief editions were the \"Sifre\" (1864), the \"Mekhilta\" (1870), \"Pesiqta Rabbathi\" (1880). At the time of his death he was editing the \"Sifra\". Friedmann, while inspired with regard for tradition, dealt with the Rabbinic texts with modern scientific methods, and rendered conspicuous service to the critical investigation of the Midrash and to the history of early homilies.\n\nIn 1844, at the age of 13, he entered the yeshiva at Ungvar, Carpathian Ruthenia region (now part of Ukraine) where he was attracted to Chasidism and Kabbalah. At the age of sixteen, he was led by the \"Bi'ur\" of Moses Mendelssohn to the study of the Bible, and became deeply interested in Hebrew poetry, especially in Wessely's \"Shire Tife'ret\". At twenty, while living at Miskolc, where he earned his livelihood by giving \"Talmud\" instruction, he took up secular studies. In 1858 he entered the University of Vienna. In 1864, when the Vienna bet ha-midrash was founded, he was chosen as teacher of the Bible and Midrash. Later he was hired as a professor in the Israelitisch-Theologische Lehranstalt. Among his students there was Solomon Schechter.\n\nFriedmann has devoted himself chiefly to the editing of old Midrashim, to which he has added critical notes and valuable introductions. These notes, written in classical rabbinical style, are models of precision and are of great value.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2063047", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2063047", "title": "Laurette Spang-McCook", "text": "Laurette Spang-McCook\n\nLaurette Spang-McCook (born May 16, 1951) is an American television actress. She is best known for playing the character Cassiopeia on the original \"Battlestar Galactica\" (1978).\n\nSpang was born in Buffalo, New York and raised in Ann Arbor, Michigan. During her youth, she was an active letter-writer, penning letters to actors. She was also a huge fan of the gothic soap opera, \"Dark Shadows\" and of the television Western, \"Bonanza\". She is related to Bollywood producer-actor Stegath Dorr.\n\nAt age 16, she accompanied her father on a business trip to New York City, where she waited at the stage door of \"Dark Shadows\". The stage guard allowed her to walk in, leading her to actress Kathryn Leigh Scott. After their meeting, Spang would answer Scott's fan mail through high-school.\n\nThe summer of her junior year, Spang auditioned to be an apprentice at Williamstown Summer Theater. A year later, Scott set up an audition for Spang at the American Academy of Dramatic Arts. She received a scholarship and graduated from there two years later. Following graduation in 1969, Spang returned to Michigan where she attended Adrian College, living dorm life on a small campus, but not far from her family in Ann Arbor. \n\nAfter a Universal Studios talent agent spotted her in 1972, Spang signed a 7-year contract with the studio. She then had a succession of guest-starring roles in television series including \"Emergency!\", \"Adam-12\" (Episode: Venice Division), \"The Streets of San Francisco\", \"The Six Million Dollar Man\", \"Happy Days\", \"Chase\", \"The Secrets of Isis\", \"Charlie's Angels\" and \"Lou Grant\". Spang also appeared in the television movies \"Short Walk to Daylight\", \"Runaway!\" and \"Sarah T. - Portrait of a Teenage Alcoholic\". She co-starred in a production of \"Winesburg, Ohio\" on KCET's Hollywood Television Theatre.\n\nTowards the end of her contract with Universal (by which time, according to \"People Weekly\" Magazine, October 2nd, 1978) her money was almost exhausted and she had been evicted from an apartment she had been renting), Spang was cast as Cassiopeia in the \"Battlestar Galactica\" pilot movie, \"Saga of a Star World\". An initial draft of the script had her killed off in the pilot film, in which the reptiloid Ovions consumed her, almost cannibal-style. However, the character survived and the network kept her on in a regular role in the subsequent weekly series, but \"Standards and Practices\" (network censors) forced a change of profession upon her. (The censors would no longer allow her to be a socialator, so Glen Larson and Donald P. Bellisario had her character become a medtech in the series, beginning with \"Lost Planet of the Gods, Parts 1 & 2\").\n\nSpang's later acting performances were in \"The Love Boat\", \"Fantasy Island\", \"The Dukes of Hazzard\" and \"Magnum, P.I.\". She took a de facto retirement from acting in 1984, though she made a brief appearance in the 2007 horror film \"Plot 7,\" which also featured her by-then husband John McCook. In 2002, Spang appeared in the \"Battlestar Galactica\" episode of \"Sciography\" documentary series on the Sci-Fi Channel in 2002. In 2003, she appeared in another \"Battlestar Galactica\" documentary included as an extra feature in the DVD box set of the series released for the series' 25th anniversary.\n\nSpang married actor John McCook on February 16, 1980; the couple have three children.\n"}
{"id": "2063048", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2063048", "title": "Transurban", "text": "Transurban\n\nTransurban is a road operator company that manages and develops urban toll road networks in Australia and North America. It was founded in 1996 and is listed on the Australian Securities Exchange (ASX).\n\nIn Australia, Transurban is the full owner of CityLink in Melbourne, which connects three of the city's major freeways; and has stakes in six tolled motorways in Sydney, and, in six of the six Linkt network tolled motorways in Brisbane.\n\nIn the United States, Transurban has ownership interests in the 495 Express Lanes on a section of the Capital Beltway around Washington, DC. It also has an interest in the connecting 95 Express Lanes project on Interstate 95.\n\nTransurban was included on the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) World List from 2006 to 2010 and on the DJSI Asia Pacific List from 2011 to 2015.\n\nTransurban has an interest in 16 urban motorways in Australia and the United States.\n\n\nThe CityLink contract was awarded in 1995 by the Victorian government to a consortium of Australia's Transfield Holdings and Japan's Obayashi Corporation. Transurban was formed to operate the CityLink contract.\n\nThe specifications called for a tolled freeway to augment two existing freeways and the construction of two new toll roads – labelled the Western and Southern Links – directly linking a number of existing freeways to provide a continuous, high-capacity road route to, and around, the central business district, using electronic toll collection technology, called e-TAG. The total value of the project was estimated in 1996 at about $1.8 billion, and the 34-year concession to operate the road expires in 2034.\n\nThe road was built between 1996 and 2000. The first of the sections opened to traffic in August 1999, with tolling commencing on 3 January 2000 before final completion occurred on 28 December 2000 with tolling commencing the same year.\n\n\nTransurban has a 62.5% share in and manages the following toll roads:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2063073", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2063073", "title": "Matthew 4:14–15", "text": "Matthew 4:14–15\n\nMatthew 4:14–15 are the fourteenth and fifteenth verses of the fourth chapter of the Gospel of Matthew in the New Testament. In the previous verses Jesus returned to Galilee after hearing of the arrest of John the Baptist and then left Nazareth for Capernaum. These introduce and then contain the first portion of a quote from the Book of Isaiah showing how these movements were preordained by scripture.\n\nIn the King James Version of the Bible the text reads:\n\nThe World English Bible translates the passage as:\n\nFor a collection of other versions see BibleHub Matthew 4:14, 4:15\n\nVerse 14 is one of many in Matthew introducing an Old Testament prophecy. This uses the author of Matthew's standard \"that it might be fulfilled\" structure that appears many other times in the gospel.\n\nThe following verse is then based on Isaiah 9:1 in the Old Testament, which, in the King James Version, reads:\n\nThe author of Matthew considerably abbreviates the verse. France notes that Matthew seems to only be interested in highlighting the locations, such that the grammatical links that make Isaiah 9:1 comprehensible are left out. Yet the following OT verse (Isaiah 9:2), which points towards the salvation of a Messiah, is quoted in full in the following NT verse; see . \n\nCapernaum, where Jesus had relocated, was in the region of the Tribe of Naphtali in Galilee, it was also near the land of the Tribe of Zebulun. In the Greek \"toward the sea\" (\"by the way of the sea\") refers to a specific route, and Jones feels it should perhaps be more accurately read as \"on the road to the sea.\" In Isaiah this verse is in the section describing the Assyrian invasion of northern Israel. \"Toward the sea, beyond the Jordan\" thus refers to the geography from the view point of the Assyrian invaders. To them the region of Zebulun and Naphtali would be across the Jordan River on the way to the Mediterranean. In the Middle Ages the \"way of the sea\" became a common name for the trade routes through this area, based on this verse.\n\nGundry feels that the author of Matthew is trying to rework the statement so that it refers to the Sea of Galilee rather than the Mediterranean. Schweizer considers it odd that the phrase \"beyond the Jordan\" was not among those cut by the author of Matthew as it makes clear the geography was from a foreign perspective and also does not work with the sea in question being Galilee.\n\nGundry also notes that in the Masoretic text the last line reads \"region of the Gentiles.\" The word for region is \"galil\" and can easily become \"Galilee,\" the switch does not much affect the meaning of the verse as Zebulun and Naphtali were both in Galilee. France notes that referring to Galilee as the area of the Gentiles was appropriate both when Isaiah and when Matthew were written. While Galilee had a large Jewish population the majority of the people were then Gentiles. The mention of the Gentiles is part of the important theme in Matthew of showing that Jesus' message is meant for both Jews and Gentiles. France notes that in Matthew there is a common pattern of Jesus being persecuted by the Jews, as had happened with the arrest of John the Baptist, but being turned by this persecution to more receptive Gentile audiences.\n"}
{"id": "2063080", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2063080", "title": "Fugitive slave laws in the United States", "text": "Fugitive slave laws in the United States\n\nThe fugitive slave laws were laws passed by the United States Congress in 1793 and 1850 to provide for the return of slaves who escaped from one state into another state or territory. The idea of the fugitive slave law was derived from the Fugitive Slave Clause which is in the United States Constitution (Article IV, Section 2, Paragraph 3). It was thought that forcing states to deliver escaped slaves to slave owners violated states' rights due to state sovereignty and was believed that seizing state property should not be left up to the states. The Fugitive Slave Clause states that escaped slaves \"shall be delivered up on Claim of the Party to whom such Service or Labour may be due\", which abridged state rights because retrieving slaves was a form of retrieving private property. The Compromise of 1850 entailed a series of laws that allowed slavery in the new territories and forced officials in free states to give a hearing to slaveholders without a jury.\n\nThe New England Articles of Confederation of 1643 contained a clause that provided for the return of fugitive slaves. However, this only referred to the confederation of colonies of Massachusetts, Plymouth, Connecticut, and New Haven, and was unrelated to the Articles of Confederation of the United States formed after the Declaration of Independence. Both Africans and Native Americans were slaves in the New England colonies even in the 18th century. The Articles for the New England Confederation provided for the return of slaves in Section 8:\n\nAs the colonies grew and settlers expanded into other areas, slavery continued in the English territories and in former Dutch territories like New Amsterdam, which became New York.\n\nSerious attempts at formulating a uniform policy for the recapture of escaped slaves began under the Articles of Confederation of the United States in 1785.\n\nThere were two attempts at implementing a fugitive slave law in the Congress of the Confederation in order to provide slave owners with a way of recapturing escaped slaves.\n\nThe Ordinance of 1784 was drafted by a Congressional committee headed by Thomas Jefferson, and its provisions applied to all United States territory west of the original 13 states. The original version was read to Congress on March 1, 1784, and it contained a clause stating:\n\nThat after the year 1800 of the Christian Era, there shall be neither slavery nor involuntary servitude in any of the said states, otherwise than in punishment of crimes, whereof the party shall have been duly convicted to have been personally guilty.\nThis was removed prior to final enactment of the ordinance on 23 April 1784. However, the issue did not die there, and on 6 April 1785 Rufus King introduced a resolution to re-implement the slavery prohibition in the 1784 ordinance, containing a fugitive slave provision in the hope that this would reduce opposition to the objective of the resolution. The resolution contained the phrase:\n\nProvided always, that upon the escape of any person into any of the states described in the said resolve of Congress of the 23d day of April, 1784, from whom labor or service is lawfully claimed in any one of the thirteen original states, such fugitive may be lawfully reclaimed and carried back to the person claiming his labor or service as aforesaid, this resolve notwithstanding.\n\nThe unsuccessful resolution was the first attempt to include a fugitive slave provision in U.S. legislation.\n\nWhile the original 1784 ordinance applied to all U.S. territory that was not a part of any existing state (and thus, to all future states), the 1787 ordinance applied only to the Northwest Territory.\n\nCongress made a further attempt to address the concerns of slave owners over runaway slaves in 1787 by passing the Northwest Ordinance of 1787. The law appeared to outlaw slavery, which would have reduced the votes of slave states in Congress, but southern representatives were concerned with economic competition from potential slaveholders in the new territory, and the effects that would have on the prices of staple crops such as tobacco. They correctly predicted that slavery would be permitted south of the Ohio River under the Southwest Ordinance of 1790, and therefore did not view this as a threat to slavery. In terms of the actual law, it did not ban slavery in practice, and it continued almost until the start of the Civil War.\n\nKing's phrasing from the 1785 attempt was incorporated in the Northwest Ordinance of 1787 when it was enacted on 13 July 1787. Article 6 has the provision for runaway slaves:\n\nArt. 6. There shall be neither slavery nor involuntary servitude in the said territory, otherwise than in the punishment of crimes whereof the party shall have been duly convicted: \"Provided, always\", That any person escaping into the same, from whom labor or service is lawfully claimed in any one of the original States, such fugitive may be lawfully reclaimed and conveyed to the person claiming his or her labor or service as aforesaid.\n\nWhen Congress created \"An Act respecting fugitives from justice, and persons escaping from the service of their masters\", or more commonly known as the Fugitive Slave Act, they were responding to slave owners' need to protect their property rights, as written into the 1787 Constitution. Article IV of the Constitution required the federal government to go after runaway slaves. The 1793 Fugitive Slave Act was the mechanism by which the government did that, and it was only at this point the government could pursue runaway slaves in any state or territory, and ensure slave owners of their property rights.\n\nSection 3 is the part that deals with fugitive or runaway slaves, and reads in part:\n\nSEC. 3. ... That when a person held to labor in any of the United States, or of the Territories on the Northwest or South of the river Ohio ... shall escape into any other part of the said States or Territory, the person to whom such labor or service may be due ... is hereby empowered to seize or arrest such fugitive from labor ... and upon proof ... before any Judge ... it shall be the duty of such Judge ... [to remove] the said fugitive from labor to the State or Territory from which he or she fled.\n\nSection 4 makes assisting runaways and fugitives a crime and outlines the punishment for those who assisted runaway slaves:\n\nSEC. 4. ... That any person who shall knowingly and willingly obstruct or hinder such claimant ... shall ... forfeit and pay the sum of five hundred dollars.\n\nIn the early 19th century, personal liberty laws were passed to hamper officials in the execution of the law, but this was mostly after the abolition of the Slave Trade, as there had been very little support for abolition prior; Indiana in 1824 and Connecticut in 1828 provided jury trial for fugitives who appealed from an original decision against them. In 1840, New York and Vermont extended the right of trial by jury to fugitives and provided them with attorneys. As early as the first decade of the 19th century, individual dissatisfaction with the law of 1793 had taken the form of systematic assistance rendered to African Americans escaping from the South to Canada or New England: the so-called Underground Railroad.\n\nThe decision of the Supreme Court in the case of \"Prigg v. Pennsylvania\" in 1842 (16 Peters 539)—that state authorities could not be forced to act in fugitive slave cases, but that national authorities must carry out the national law—was followed by legislation in Massachusetts (1843), Vermont (1843), Pennsylvania (1847) and Rhode Island (1848), forbidding state officials from aiding in enforcing the law and refusing the use of state jails for fugitive slaves.\n\nThe demand from the South for more effective Federal legislation was voiced in the second fugitive slave law, drafted by Senator James Murray Mason of Virginia, grandson of George Mason, and enacted on September 18, 1850, as a part of the Compromise of 1850. Special commissioners were to have concurrent jurisdiction with the U.S. circuit and district courts and the inferior courts of territories in enforcing the law; fugitives could not testify in their own behalf; no trial by jury was provided.\n\nPenalties were imposed upon marshals who refused to enforce the law or from whom a fugitive should escape, and upon individuals who aided black people to escape; the marshal might raise a \"posse comitatus\"; a fee of $10 ($ in today's dollars) was paid to the commissioner when his decision favored the claimant, only $5 ($ in today's dollars) when it favored the fugitive. The supposed justification for the disparity in compensation was that, if the decision were in favor of the claimant, additional effort on the part of the commissioner would be required in order to fill out the paperwork actually remanding the slave back to the South. Both the fact of the escape and the identity of the fugitive were determined on purely \"ex parte\" testimony. If a slave was brought in and returned to the master, the person who brought in the slave would receive the sum of $10 ($ in today's dollars) per slave.\n\nThe severity of this measure led to gross abuses and defeated its purpose; the number of abolitionists increased, the operations of the Underground Railroad became more efficient, and new personal liberty laws were enacted in Vermont (1850), Connecticut (1854), Rhode Island (1854), Massachusetts (1855), Michigan (1855), Maine (1855 and 1857), Kansas (1858) and Wisconsin (1858). The personal liberty laws forbade justices and judges to take cognizance of claims, extended habeas corpus and the privilege of jury trial to fugitives, and punished false testimony severely. In 1854, the Supreme Court of Wisconsin went so far as to declare the Fugitive Slave Act unconstitutional.\n\nThese state laws were one of the grievances that South Carolina would later use to justify its secession from the Union. Attempts to carry into effect the law of 1850 aroused much bitterness. The arrests of Thomas Sims and of Shadrach Minkins in Boston in 1851; of Jerry M. Henry, in Syracuse, New York, in the same year; of Anthony Burns in 1854, in Boston; and of the two Garner families in 1856, in Cincinnati, with other cases arising under the Fugitive Slave Law of 1850, probably had as much to do with bringing on the Civil War as did the controversy over slavery in the Territories.\n\nWith the beginning of the Civil War, the legal status of the slave was changed by his masters being in arms. Benjamin Franklin Butler, in May 1861, declared black slaves are contraband of war. The Confiscation Act of 1861 was passed in August 1861, and discharged from service or labor any slave employed in aiding or promoting any insurrection against the government of the United States.\n\nBy the congressional Act Prohibiting the Return of Slaves of March 13, 1862, any slave of a disloyal master who was in territory occupied by Northern troops was declared \"ipso facto\" free. But for some time the Fugitive Slave Law was considered still to hold in the case of fugitives from masters in the border states who were loyal to the Union government, and it was not until June 28, 1864, that the Act of 1850 was fully repealed.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2063081", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2063081", "title": "Nidovirales", "text": "Nidovirales\n\nNidovirales is an order of viruses with animal and human hosts. The order includes the families \"Coronaviridae\", \"Arteriviridae,\" \"Roniviridae,\" and \"Mesoniviridae\".\n\nNidoviruses are enveloped positive-sense single-stranded RNA viruses. They are named for the Latin \"nidus\", meaning nest, as all viruses in this order produce a 3' co-terminal nested set of subgenomic mRNAs during infection.\n\nThe order \"Nidovirales\" consists of viruses which have positive-sense, single-stranded RNA genomes. The viruses belong to Group IV of the Baltimore classification system. As positive-sense genomes, the viruses can use some host cell proteins during replication and gene expression which occurs in the cytoplasm of the host cell.\n\nThis group of viruses expresses structural proteins separately from the nonstructural ones. The structural proteins are encoded at the 3’ region of the genome and are expressed from a set of subgenomic mRNAs. These viruses encode one main proteinase and between one and three accessory proteinases which are mainly involved in expressing the replicase gene. These proteinases are also responsible for activating or inactivating specific proteins at the correct time in the virus life cycle, ensuring replication occurs at the right time.\n\nMany proteins have been identified on the genomes of \"Nidovirales\", but their function has not yet been determined. Other enzymes that may be present in the genome include papain-like proteases, ADP-ribose/poly(ADP-ribose)-binding or ADP-ribose 1\"-phosphate phosphatase activities and cyclic nucleotide phosphodiesterase.\n\nMost, but not all, nidovirus subgenomic RNAs contain a 5′ leader sequence derived from the 5′ end of the genomic RNA.\n\nThe frameshift that generates ORF1b frameshift occurs at a UUUAAAC heptanucleotide 'slippery' sequence located upstream of the ORF1a stop codon and a putative RNA pseudoknot structure.\n\nThis order of viruses can be distinguished from other RNA viruses by a constellation of seven conserved domains—5'-TM2-3CLpro-TM3-RdRp-Zm-HEL1-NendoU-3'—with the first three being encoded in ORF1a and the remaining four in ORF1b. TM2 and TM3 and transmembrane domains; RdRp is the RNA polymerase; Zm is a Zn-cluster binding domain fused with a helicase (HEL1); 3CLpro is a 3C-like protease; and NendoU is an uridylate-specific endonuclease. The 3CLpro has a catalytic His-Cys dyad, and is also as the SARS coronavirus main proteinase.\n\nThe order \"Nidovirales\" can be divided into two clades depending on the size of the genome: those with large genomes (26.3–31.7 kilobases) which included the \"Coronaviridae\" and \"Roniviridae\" (the large nidoviruses) and those with small genomes (the small nidoviruses)—a clade that includes the distantly related \"Arteriviridae\" (12.7–15.7 kb). The large nidoviruses encode both a 2'-O-methyltransferase and a 3'–5' exoribonuclease (ExoN)—the latter being very unusual for an RNA virus. They also encode a superfamily 1 helicase, uridylate-specific endonuclease (an enzyme unique to nidoviruses) and several proteases.\n\nThe following subfamilies and families are recognized (-\"virineae\" denotes suborders and -\"viridae\" denotes families):\n\nThe virus which has the largest known nonsegmented RNA genome of 41.1kb, the planarian secretory cell nidovirus (PSCNV), may be of the order \"Nidovirales\" but is not recognized as of 2019. Its host is the planarian flatworm.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2063083", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2063083", "title": "List of Teen Titans (TV series) characters", "text": "List of Teen Titans (TV series) characters\n\nThis is a list of the major and minor characters featured in and/or created specifically for the Cartoon Network and Kids' WB animated series \"Teen Titans\".\n\nAlthough he is the only one of the group without any superpowers, by virtue of his heroic experience and reputation, Robin is the fierce but highly disciplined leader of the Teen Titans. As elaborated upon in the \"Go\" episode, Robin forms the group after aiding Starfire in her escape from captivity, with the help of Beast Boy, Cyborg, and Raven. Prior to this, he left his mentor (implied to be Batman), in an effort to make it on their own as crime-fighters. The series never explicitly reveals his secret identity, but he is implied to be Dick Grayson, the original Robin. The \"Teen Titans Go!\" spin-off comic identifies him as Dick and Batman as his mentor, but neither of these reveals occur in the show.\n\n\nStarfire (as translated into English) is a humanoid alien female from a planet called Tamaran. As learned in the episode \"Betrothed\", her real name and title is Princess Koriand'r. In the events of \"Go\", Starfire arrives on Earth while escaping captivity from Lord Trogaar, an alien overlord intending to sell her into slavery to what she calls \"The Citadel\". She creates mass havoc on an Earth city in an effort to break free from her restraints, arousing the ire of crime-fighters Robin, Beast Boy and Cyborg. Raven later appears to convince the boys to settle the dispute peacefully, and the friendship between the five grows from there. After dispatching the alien invaders, Starfire chooses to stay on Earth with her newfound friends.\n\n\nOnce known as Victor Stone, he becomes a deformed mesh of flesh and machine following an unelaborated \"accident\" that caused most of his body to be replaced with cybernetic implants. His condition is virtually impossible to disguise, though he initially attempts to do so by covering much of his body with heavy clothing and a hooded sweatshirt. His neighborhood falls under attack when Starfire appears on Earth in the episode \"Go\", and as such, he comes to the aid of Robin and Beast Boy in their tussle with the hostile alien.\n\nRaven is usually depicted with a stoic expression on her face, and as somewhat of a stereotypical, apathetic \"goth\". Raven wears a blue hooded shroud which casts a shadow over much of her face, and a black leotard decorated with a belt. She has fair skin, violet-blue eyes, and a bob-cut hairstyle, with a mystical stone in the middle of her forehead. Shrouded in mystery even from her debut appearance, little is known about Raven and her past, and she is emotionally distant even from her fellow Titans much of the time, with only a few instances to the contrary. It is later discovered that this is intentional, due to the grave secrets Raven is carrying with her throughout the series.\n\nRaven's chief powers are her flight, a studious mastery of magical powers, and her telekinetic and psychokinetic abilities, with her mind empowering her to levitate objects by surrounding them in dark mystical energy. This ability often comes about after chanting the incantation \"Azarath Metrion Zinthos\", allowing her to make use of her powers in a myriad of forms (including but not limited to: forcefields, energy shields, teleportation, time manipulation, and astral projection). Apart from the psychokinetic energy she wields, Raven is also a master of Extra-Sensory Perception, able to sense and read the minds of others.\n\n\nA former member of the Doom Patrol, Beast Boy leaves the group in an effort to become a solo superhero; by sheer happenstance stemming from Lord Trogaar's pursuit of Starfire, he finds himself joining the Teen Titans. His early training under the tutelage of the Doom Patrol is highly disciplined and militarized, leading him to address more experienced heroes as \"Sir\" in the beginning. As time wears on, he would become less serious and acts as the merry prankster and comic relief of the Teen Titans. In the two-part episode \"Homecoming\", his real name is revealed to be Garfield Logan.\n\n\nDebuting in the episode which bears her name, Terra is a super-powered teenage girl with terrakinetic abilities; she is able to telekinetically control the very ground beneath her feet, often preferring to use rocks and boulders as projectiles, as well as a vehicular means of travel. She is a slim and pale blonde-haired, blue-eyed girl of unknown origins, and lives a nomadic lifestyle in the wilderness, constantly moving around. She eventually comes to settle in the coastal hometown of the Teen Titans.\n\nUpon meeting the team, she quickly forms a bond with them, leading to their offer of Terra becoming the Teen Titans' newest member. Her bond is strongest with Beast Boy, with whom a complicated romantic relationship forms. Beast Boy is the first to discover that Terra has trouble controlling her powers, which he is then sworn to secrecy not to reveal to anyone. During a confrontation with the Titans' nemesis Slade, he reveals that he had been stalking her for years and knows that Terra's lack of control had caused a number of natural disasters across the globe, thereby explaining why Terra never stays in one place for too long; convinced that the Titans would shun her once this knowledge becomes public, Slade offers to train her in using her abilities before he escapes capture. Robin later deduces Terra's instability, and—incorrectly believing that Beast Boy had revealed their secret—she leaves the Titans and disappears.\n\nTerra later reunites with the Titans with more of a control over her powers, and earns the trust of the team after helping to save their home in \"Titan Rising\". However, Slade's forces would later launch a surprise attack on a defenseless Titans Tower while Terra spends a night out with an unknowing Beast Boy; having followed the two, Slade reveals that Terra had become his new apprentice, and had been acting as a double agent sabotaging the team since her return. A brokenhearted Beast Boy spurns her apologies, fueling a hate-filled Terra to decimate the team in the Part 1 episode of \"Aftershock\". In part 2, the Titans regroup to retake the besieged city, leading to her thrashing by Slade after she is forced into retreat. With Slade in control of her body by way of her battle suit, she finds herself unable to leave and fights the Titans against her will. With the help of Beast Boy and the other Titans, she regains control of her powers and triggers an underground volcano that kills Slade; however, the volcano rages out of control, and to prevent it from destroying the city above ground, she sacrifices herself to stop it from erupting——she succeeds in extinguishing the volcano with her powers, but is turned to stone as a result. The Titans pay tribute to the lifeless Terra with a memorial plaque, which reads \"\"Terra—A Teen Titan, A True Friend\"\".\n\nTerra is seemingly reincarnated in the series finale, \"Things Change\". Following the Titans' hometown return after their longtime battle with The Brotherhood of Evil, they do battle with an adaptoid creature; giving chase, Beast Boy suddenly notices a blonde blue-eyed schoolgirl resembling Terra standing amongst the crowd of onlooking civilians. After Beast Boy discovers the lifeless stone statue of Terra in the base of Slade's old headquarters is now missing, he believes that she had somehow been revived while they were away. Beast Boy tracks her down only to find that she apparently has no memory of the Titans, has no apparent superpowers, and she is never addressed as \"Terra\" by anyone other than Beast Boy. At the episode's end, she eventually explains to Beast Boy that even if she is indeed the Terra he once knew, she only wants to lead a normal life and convinces him to move on. Whether she truly is Terra is left unrevealed; the ending credits refer to her as \"Schoolgirl\". Because the schoolgirl/Terra's current legal guardians and home life were never addressed, it could be possible that whoever is currently taking care of her may have been responsible for Terra's resurrection and erasing her memory.\n\nIn an issue of the \"Teen Titans\" comic book following the events of the series' final episode, Geo-Force—Terra's superhero half-brother—makes an appearance in which he reveals that Terra, like he, is a member of the Markovian Royal Family that fled their home nation after they were both subjected to forced experimentation with a fictitious chemical called \"Quixium\" that gave them both geocentric, earth-manipulating superpowers. This issue sheds light on where Terra came from, in addition to the source of her powers. Geo-Force is later convinced to allow Terra to live without her superpowers in peace, and leaves without ever reuniting with her. However, how Terra got out of her stone state, who is currently looking after her, and how she lost her memory currently remains a mystery.\n\n\nAs the ex-sidekick of Aquaman, Aqualad makes his debut in the episode \"Deep Six\", employing the help of the Teen Titans in defeating an Atlantean criminal named Trident. He butts heads with Beast Boy in that episode as he feels shown up by the impressive young Atlantean, but in their battles with Trident, Beast Boy and Aqualad make peace by the episode's end. He returns in \"Wavelength\", needing the Titans' help to take out Brother Blood's second undersea H.I.V.E. Headquarters. Following Blood's escape, they give chase and track him to Steel City, where he and Bumblebee form the Titans East. He later falls prey to Blood's mind control, turning on appointed leader Cyborg and does battle with Titans Central; he is freed after Cyborg defeats Brother Blood in the final battle, and stays on with Titans East.\n\n\nArgent is a female Honorary Titan who first appears in \"Calling All Titans\". Deputized by Starfire while walling off a fractured dam, she is soon attacked and captured by the Brotherhood's General Immortus and flash-frozen at their headquarters in Paris. She is later freed and takes part in the final battle of \"Titans Together\", briefly seen in the background fighting Johnny Rancid, and is standing near the foreground at the episode's conclusion when the World Titans are summoned to stop Doctor Light. Prior to her official appearances in the aforementioned episodes, Argent also appears via cameo in the \"Lightspeed\" episode, briefly displayed upon the H.I.V.E. Five's computer monitor.\n\n\nBumblebee is first seen as a H.I.V.E. student, but is later revealed to have been a spy in the organization working in league with Aqualad. As she reveals in a staged fight with Cyborg, she is unable to fall under Brother Blood's hypnotic influence. She later becomes a founding member of Titans East, convincing Cyborg to become the team's leader, when in fact it turns out to be an elaborate trap staged by Blood when she falls back under his control—though she appeared to be the only one of the group able to occasionally slip free. After Blood is defeated, Cyborg steps down from Titans East, making Bumblebee the new leader.\n\n\nBushido is a young silent Japanese swordsman, who is made an Honorary Titan by his American counterpart to fend off an incursion by the Brotherhood of Evil, which is preparing to mount an assault on young heroes. In the events of \"Calling All Titans\", he is defeated and captured, and ultimately flash-frozen by Professor Chang, along with much of the other Titans before an audience of the Brotherhood and their villainous deputies.\n\n\nGnarrk (\"guh-nark\") is the caveman friend of Kole seen in the \"Kole\" episode. He is given his name due to the fact that it is the only thing he can say or understand. A primal predecessor of contemporary human beings, he has an abnormal level of agility and strength. When Kole activates her crystallization powers, Gnarrk is able to use her body to great effect as a bludgeoning tool, or as a weapon against enemies.\n\n\nHerald is a young hooded African-American boy who is made an Honorary Titan in the wake of the Brotherhood's efforts to seek and destroy the next generation of superheroes on Earth. He is one of the few Titan-affiliated heroes that manages to evade capture, and partners with fellow survivors Beast Boy, Más, Pantha, and Jericho. The five succeed in infiltrating the Brotherhood's fortress in Paris and ultimately freeing the captured heroes; Herald himself is called upon to save everyone when the Brain, forced into retreat, triggers a massive bomb designed to take out the entire complex.\n\n\nFirst featured in the Master of Games' Tournament of Heroes in \"Winner Take All\", Hot Spot is a pyrokinetic young hero who is made an Honorary Titan in the wake of the Master of Games' defeat. In his normal state, he has the appearance of an adolescent African-American male, but when employing his heat-based superpowers, he becomes a humanoid embodiment of fire.\n\n\nJericho is another Honorary Titan that, alongside Herald, is summoned to the Titans' rendezvous point after the Brotherhood conducts their search-and-capture campaign on the team members across the globe. Jericho is a gentle and kindly albeit mute blonde boy with the ability to possess his enemies, thereby taking full control of their bodies, memories and abilities; the only evidence of which is the black eyes with hollow green irises the victims assume from Jericho's gaze once they become subsumed.\n\n\nAn agile sorceress with a mastery of hexes brought to rival Raven's magical skills, Jinx is a pink-haired, cat-eyed teen girl that uses a form of black magic to bring about \"bad luck\"-themed attacks, such as by crumbling the ground beneath opponents or causing structures to collapse around them. She is often portrayed as the leader and battle coordinator of any H.I.V.E.-affiliated group.\n\nShe becomes enamored with the flirtatious Kid Flash, thereby parting ways with the H.I.V.E. altogether and joining the Teen Titans in their battle with the Brotherhood in the climax of \"Titans Together\".\nShe, alongside Sergeant H.I.V.E., officially joins the Teen Titans in an issue of the accompanying comic book series \"Teen Titans Go!\" and she also becomes Kid Flash's official girlfriend with them sharing an official kiss in issue \"#53\".\n\n\nDebuting in \"Lightspeed\", Kid Flash, the self-proclaimed \"Fastest Boy Alive\", appears as a thorn in the side of the freshly formed H.I.V.E. Five, composed of H.I.V.E. alums Mammoth, See-More, Kyd Wykked, Billy Numerous, Gizmo, and Jinx. He later finds himself captured by the H.I.V.E. Five, but manages to escape by vibrating through his cell bars; he is then relentlessly pursued by the Brotherhood's Madame Rouge, but narrowly manages to get away. Once the Brotherhood of Evil launches its full assault on the world's young heroes, Kid Flash is able to avoid capture; he later arrives to participate in the final battle, helping the World Titans defeat the Brotherhood with the help of a new ally: Jinx, with whom Kid Flash had been flirting with for some time. His secret identity is not revealed in the series, although he is implied to be Wally West, the original Kid Flash.\n\n\nKillowat is an Honorary Titan with a command over electricity. Only featured a few times in the series, Killowat is a young male with luminescent electric-blue skin, glowing irisless white eyes, and tattoo-like magenta streaks of lightning lining his torso, arms, and a single bolt atop his head in place of hair.\n\n\nFeatured in the episode which bears her name, Kole is a young, pink-haired girl living with her caveman friend Gnarrk beneath an ice-mass in the North Pole. She is able to crystallize herself as a defense mechanism thereby rendering her indestructible, allowing her partner Gnarrk to use her diamond-hard body as a weapon against aggressors. In the climax of the \"Kole\" episode, she uses this power to focus and amplify one of Starfire's Star Bolts through her body to help the Teen Titans defeat Dr. Light.\n\n\nDebuting in the two-part episode \"Titans East\", Más y Menos are superpowered twin brothers from Guatemala that join Bumblebee, Speedy and Aqualad in the newly formed Titans East. They generate different polarities of bio-electromagnetism that, once combined, give the duo super-speed. This power can only work once the two brothers make physical contact with each other, and as such, they are inseparable.\n\n\nMelvin, Timmy, and Teether comprise a trio of pre-adolescent children targeted by the Brotherhood of Evil for their fledgling superpowers. They first appear in \"Hide and Seek\".\n\nMelvin, the only girl in the group and the eldest of the three, has the ability to mentally spawn a giant animated teddy bear named Bobby. Timmy (the second oldest) throws temper tantrums which induce earthquakes and sonic booms, and Teether (the baby) can eat any form of matter and spit them out like bullets. Raven is assigned to protect them from Monsieur Mallah who is hunting them down on the Brotherhood's behalf, but the children (and Bobby) manage to take him down on their own. As a reward, they are made Honorary Titans.\n\nBobby is Melvin's \"imaginary friend\", which happens to be a giant, menacing teddy bear that she can physically manifest from her mind; his powers include super-strength, powerful clawed paws, super leaping abilities, and invisibility. Bobby mainly uses his invisibility to hide from people he fears or doesn't trust, which leads to Raven disbelieving in him for most of the episode, rather believing that Melvin's power was poorly controlled telekinesis.\n\n\nPantha is another Honorary Titan who had been targeted by the Brotherhood of Evil; in spite of their best efforts, she manages to prevent her capture. She partners with Beast Boy, Jericho, Herald, and Más (of Más y Menos) in order to free their captured comrades. Pantha also proves useful as being bilingual; speaking both Spanish and English, she translates Más' instructions as he guides the group to where the frozen Titans are being held in the Brotherhood's fortress.\n\n\nRed Star first appears in \"Snow Blind\", rescuing an unconscious Starfire from a bitter snowstorm. He is found to be living in a quarantined facility in complete isolation from the rest of civilization. Red Star, also addressed in the episode as Cpt. Kovar, is seen as an older Russian teen boy with an impressive well-toned physique, reddish-brown hair and irisless green eyes.\n\n\nFormerly the sidekick to the Green Arrow, the red-headed Speedy debuts in \"Winner Take All\" competing in the Master of Games' Tournament of Heroes. He and Robin make it to the finals, where Speedy narrowly loses. Once Robin discovers the Master of Games' plot to steal the losers' powers and abilities, he does battle with the Master, ultimately freeing Speedy who helps dispatch him with an arrow to his amulet. He is then made an Honorary Titan, and later joins the Titans East.\n\n\nThunder & Lightning are the first Honorary Titans to appear in the series; they debut in \"Forces of Nature\", and are a twosome of brothers that are the living incarnations of their respective namesakes. They arrive from the clouds, wreaking havoc on the city in which the Teen Titans live; Beast Boy later deduces that the duo is not evil, but rather misunderstood—they display their destructive powers in acts that they perceive as innocent fun, and battle the Titans on occasion, seeing the challenge as mere roughhousing. The two are later manipulated into creating a fire creature by Slade, who is in the guise of an old Asian shaman; however, the two learn the error of their ways thanks to Beast Boy (himself, a polarizing prankster), and they go on to become heroes allied with the Titans.\n\n\nAqualad's engineer, mechanic and friend, Tramm helps the Titans fix their battle-damaged T-Sub in the episode \"Deep Six\". He speaks in an indecipherable undersea language and has the appearance of a short, anthropomorphic anchovy. In direct combat, he can increase his size and strength, much like a pufferfish.\n\n\nFirst appearing as a competitor in the Master of Games' alleged Tournament of Heroes in the \"Winner Take All\" episode, Wildebeest is a hulking, humanoid Chimera of his namesake; though his personal level of coherence, intelligence and even hygiene is of a questionable degree, he is formidable for wielding a bestial level of strength and agility. Wildebeest is made an Honorary Titan following the Master's defeat at the hands of the tournament winner, Robin, alongside Hot Spot and Speedy.\n\n\nWonder Girl, the sidekick counterpart to Wonder Woman and once a founding member of the Teen Titans, was denied inclusion to the main cast of the series due to licensing issues which barred her portrayal at the time of production. As a result, Wonder Girl never prominently appears in the series and she is never referred to. Nonetheless, Wonder Girl is featured in hidden cameos in the show's final season, where she is seen as a blue-eyed young girl with dark hair put up into a ponytail and wearing a pair of gold star-shaped earrings. She is later prominently featured in the \"Teen Titans Go!\" spin-off comic and identified as Donna Troy, the original Wonder Girl.\n\n\nSeen only in \"\", Brushogun was formerly a Tokyo artist who fell in love with a woman he drew. He used Japanese black magic to bring her to life, and it worked, but he was cursed by the magic, turned into a monstrous being with the ability to create live ink drawings.\n\nOnly appearing in the two-part \"Homecoming\" episode which began the animated series' final season, The Doom Patrol is a paramilitary unit of superheroes, locked in a long-standing battle against The Brotherhood of Evil. One of their former members is the Teen Titan Beast Boy, who had become estranged from the team years before.\n\n\nThe lone female member of the team, Elasti-Girl has the ability to expand her body thereby rendering her to giant size; though it consequently makes her an easier target that is harder to miss, an attack as benign as a foot stomp can level an entire field of enemies merely from the shock wave.\n\n\nMento is the leader and battle coordinator of the Doom Patrol. His uniform signifies as such by way of a yellow lightning-bolt symbol on its chest. Amplified by the helmet atop his head, Mento's super-abilities stem from his formidable mental powers, ranging from telekinesis and mind-reading to quick-acting hypnotic suggestion.\n\n\nHeavily bandaged throughout his body, Negative Man has the power of astral projection; able to separate his soul from his body, his \"negative self\" has targeted intangibility: enemies cannot harm him while in this state, though he can physically interact—often to devastating effect—with solid objects and people. However, this separation ability can only work for a limited time; extended periods of the spirit and body being separated could run the risk of \"becoming dangerously permanent\".\n\n\nRobot Man is a towering metal robotic vessel housing a still-living human brain; as such, he has incredibly devastating strength and is practically invulnerable to harm. However, still capable of free thought, Robot Man is headstrong and reckless, often preferring to charge headlong into battle than defer to stealth.\n\n\nFixit is a cyborg hermit who has the power to control machines with his mind. When Cyborg's power cell fails during a battle with Mumbo in \"The Sum of His Parts\", Fixit takes him to his underground home to be repaired. However, his repairs are actually aimed to remove Cyborg's human parts, which Fixit believes are inferior. After he attempts to download Cyborg's memories, he is overwhelmed by emotion in seeing Cyborg's human recollections of the world outside. The Titans find Cyborg in time for him to explain to Fixit what it really means to be human; Fixit understands this, and Cyborg offers to help him return to a life with a more human existence.\n\n\nNosyarg Kcid, a.k.a. Larry, is Robin's \"Bat-Mite\"-like counterpart from another dimension. His right index finger has the power to bend reality, and he uses it to watch Robin and his adventures. He enters the Titans' dimension to help fix Robin's broken arm, but fails to do so. He breaks his own finger during a scuffle with Robin as he keeps insisting on helping him; as a result, his reality-warping power is unleashed upon the city, changing it first into an embodiment of a child-drawn picture, and later into a dark, demonic domain when Titans foe Johnny Rancid seizes the power for himself. After Larry's finger is repaired and all is brought back to normal, he returns to his own dimension, but not before Robin offers him the chance to fix his broken arm one last time. He succeeds, but accidentally leaves Robin stranded in a blank, white space in the process.\n\n\nSarasim is a warrior princess from an ancient time; the year is indicated as 3000 B.C., 5,000 years from the present day in the series' canon. Her tribe, which is under siege from a horde of monsters, is saved when Cyborg appears to defeat them in the \"Cyborg the Barbarian\" episode. The character's name is a reference to Sarah Simms, Cyborg's girlfriend in the comics, and Cyborg remarks in the \"Teen Titans Go!\" spin-off comic that Sarah - who is exclusive to the spin-off - is a reincarnation of Sarasim.\n\n\nSilkie (originally named \"Larva M-319\") is one of the many mutant larvae created by Killer Moth as part of his scheme to take over the city in \"Date With Destiny\". When he was stopped by the Teen Titans, Beast Boy bonded with one of the larvae, naming him \"Silkie\", and secretly kept him as a pet at Titans Tower.\n\n\nThe Titans' most recurring foe and Robin's archenemy, Slade relentlessly stalked them since \"Divide and Conquer\" and enlisted the H.I.V.E. Academy to reveal his existence to the heroes in \"Final Exam\". Serving as the main antagonist of the first two seasons, Slade attempted to make Robin his apprentice in the first season and later enlisted Terra during the events of the second in an attempt to destroy the Titans that ended with his death. But Slade is revived in the fourth season as Trigon's undead emissary to oversee the ritual to summon the demon, siding with the Titans and fully resurrecting himself when Trigon betrayed him before taking his leave.\n\nThe H.I.V.E. Academy is a secret campus for a rogue's gallery of superpowered teenagers, all being trained to become master criminals. The school has also been called the H.A.E.Y.P., which is short for \"\"H.I.V.E. Academy for Extraordinary Young People\"\".\n\n\nBrother Blood is a cult leader and the archenemy of Cyborg, who takes control over the H.I.V.E. Academy after the Headmistress turns up missing; his power is based mainly on his ability to manipulate others through mind control, bending large groups of people to his will. Aside from pure hypnosis, his mind can create vivid hallucinations, and he also boasts both a vast intelligence and a photographic memory. Blood's mental powers also allow him to interfere with radio signals and block the powers of other empaths like Aqualad; they also greatly enhance his own physical abilities: Blood is deceptively strong and quick with supernaturally high reflexes, allowing him to walk across water, pierce and rip steel with his bare hands, and channel a psychokinetic energy used to teleport or to fire offensively as bolts of lightning and force blasts.\n\n\nThe Headmistress of the H.I.V.E. Academy in the first season, she commissions the services of her top graduates Gizmo, Jinx, and Mammoth out to the top bidder, who turns out to be the yet-to-be-identified Slade, in the episode \"Final Exam\". Slade then hires the H.I.V.E. trio to defeat the Teen Titans, which they succeed in doing temporarily until the Titans later regroup to defeat them. She tells Slade that she will \"discipline\" them when they are retrieved from the authorities, only for Slade to reveal that he had never expected her team to succeed in their mission—only in \"delivering the message\" that he exists and is watching them.\n\n\nAn impish young boy with a genius-level intellect who is armed with a mechanized backpack that generates multiple devices, gadgets and weapons. Gizmo is also a well-versed computer hacker and inventor, and typically uses these skills against Cyborg in some way, exploiting his robotic weaknesses in any number of episodes, even when called upon by the Titans to help save Cyborg's life in the \"Crash\" episode. Gizmo was also a short-lived Honorary Titan following the events of \"Winner Take All\", but was quickly stripped of that distinction.\n\n\nA hulking bestial male with mane-like hair, feral fangs, and superhuman strength. He is brought into the original H.I.V.E. trio as a counterweight to Beast Boy. The genetically modified Mammoth is the least intelligent member of this clique and is mainly used for his brawn and raw power in the execution of H.I.V.E. crimes. In spite of this, he tends to be easily defeated by the Titans in most of the episodes in which he appears.\n\n\nBilly Numerous is a minor villain and was once a student at the H.I.V.E. Academy; like many of the H.I.V.E. characters, Billy Numerous first appears in the cafeteria scene of the \"Deception\" episode. His power is self-duplication, and he is known to brag about his crime sprees to his only friends: his own clones. He wears a skintight red bodysuit with a division symbol on its chest (it is possible that he derives his multiplication powers from the suit itself), and speaks with a rural Southern drawl.\n\n\nKyd Wykkyd is a silent, bat-costumed male student at the H.I.V.E. Academy with the ability to teleport, first seen in \"Deception\". After Cyborg and the Titans destroyed the H.I.V.E. and the various students went on to become renegade villains, Wykkyd joined the H.I.V.E. Five at some point before \"Lightspeed\". Although giving off a dark and demonic demeanor, it's shown in \"Lightspeed\" he's slightly childish; wanting to build a pillow fort with his teammates and joining them to hide behind Jinx when Madame Rouge arrives at their base. Nevertheless, his teleportation powers and razor-ended cape are shown in good use during battle.\n\n\nPrivate H.I.V.E. is the eponymous villain from the H.I.V.E. Academy with a military demeanor who uses a hexagonal shield with the H.I.V.E.'s logo plastered upon it for attack and defense; he seems partial to throwing his shield in the style of a discus, much like Captain America. He appears to be modeled after The Guardian and says \"sir\" at the end of almost every sentence.\n\nHe later joins the Titans in the \"Teen Titans Go!\" comic book series, along with fellow H.I.V.E. student Jinx.\n\n\nSee-More is a minor villain from the H.I.V.E. Academy who joins the H.I.V.E. Five in the events prior to \"Mother Mae-Eye\". His powers stem from a variety of interchangeable colored eyeballs which are accessible via a dial in his helmet; each eyeball is equipped with a unique function or attack, such as multi-vision, X-Ray vision, hypnosis, projection of eye-shaped bubbles, laser beams, and balloon-based flight. Like many of the H.I.V.E. characters, See-More first appears in the cafeteria scene of the \"Deception\" episode.\n\n\nTrigon The Terrible (alternatively identified by the name Scath) is Raven's father and archenemy who is feared throughout the galaxies as an ancient demon king. Trigon serves as the main antagonist of the fourth season, enlisting Slade to prepare Raven for a ritual to being him to Earth and ends up being physically destroyed by his daughter. Trigon later returns in the 2019 crossover film \"Teen Titans Go! vs. Teen Titans\", entering an alliance with an alternate version of himself who revives him with the Raven of his universe. But Trigon's constant belittling of counterpart while eventually revived ended with him swallowed up and absorbed by his counterpart, only to be freed after being rendered incorporeal again and sent back to his realm.\n\nThe Brotherhood of Evil is a secret society of supervillains dedicated to total world domination whom the Doom Patrol fought in the past, serving as the main antagonists of the final season.\n\n\nThe Brotherhood's leader and Beast Boy's archenemy. As suggested by the name, he is a disembodied human brain preserved in a robotic cylinder to keep it alive, only able to communicate via a voice box built in its chassis. The chassis itself is framed by the design of a sinister-looking skull. Apart from The Brain's genius level intellect, he appears to have a degree of psychokinetic powers channeled by and through his robotic shell.\n\n\nAs implied by his name, General Immortus is an ancient military commander who is knowledgeable in every combat strategy ever conceived, mainly by being involved in every major battle in history personally. Immortus even comments on teaching many of history's best minds of war; in the \"Homecoming\" episode, he refers to Sun Tsu—the Chinese military philosopher and author of \"The Art of War\"—as one of his \"finest students\". Immortus has command over armies of both human and robot soldiers, and often uses them as part of a larger plot in executing attacks. He is frozen by the Teen Titans at the end of \"Titans Together\".\n\n\nMadame Rouge, though appearing mainly as a black-haired Russian female dressed in red (in fact, one rough translation of her name is \"\"The Lady in Red\"\"), is a malleable shape-shifter with the ability to stretch and contort her body in any way she sees fit; she is most lethal for being able to fully assume the appearances of other people, able to mimic them with little means of detection. She nearly defeats Kid Flash simply by pursuing and pummeling him into exhaustion, but later succeeds in taking down Hot Spot, taking his likeness as the Titans arrive to pass along a communicator to him. In possession of a Titans Communicator, the Brotherhood is able to coordinate their strikes against the team.\n\n\nMonsieur Mallah is a hyper-intelligent African gorilla capable of human speech who develops many of the Doomsday Devices used by the Brotherhood. Mallah is also adept at using weapons, such as grenades and a laser-firing minigun, in conjunction with his bestial strength. Mallah is extremely loyal to his master and is his trusted confidant. It is he who suggests that they escape when the Titans begin to regroup against them, but their retreat is thwarted by Robin and Beast Boy; he is beaten by Beast Boy (who himself has morphed into a gorilla to fight him), and is the second-to-last Brotherhood member to be subjected to the freezing machine in \"Titans Together\".\n\n\nAndré LeBlanc is a French jewel thief that debuts in \"For Real\". He later joins the Brotherhood of Evil.\n\n\nAtlas is a robotic villain that debuts in \"Only Human\".\n\n\nBlackfire is the elder sister of Starfire and her rival to the throne of their home world of Tamaran. She is also a wanted criminal.\n\n\nDebuting in the series premiere episode \"Divide and Conquer\", Cinderblock is a living monolithic stone idol with limited intelligence, but near-unstoppable strength. He is named as such due to the several panels on his body–particularly his forearms, the sides of his head, and the center of his chest–which bear a likeness to his namesake. Cinderblock is featured multiple times in the series as a secondary villain.\n\n\nCommander Uehara Daizo appears as the main antagonist in the feature-length \"Teen Titans\" film, \"\". He is Tokyo's police commander, and the commander of the Tokyo Troopers, which he secretly uses Brushogun in creating. It turns out that Daizo's goal is to discredit the Teen Titans as heroes, as his own heroic reputation became diminished as the Titans' exploits become internationally known. To this end, Daizo effectively enslaves Brushogun to create criminals for him to capture, to create the Tokyo Troopers to act as his personal army, and to create the various supervillains (which include \"Saico-Tek\", \"Mecha-Boi\", \"Nya-Nya\", \"Scarface\", \"Timoko\" and others) to do battle with the Teen Titans.\n\n\nControl Freak is an overweight supervillain and movie fanatic, notorious for using a nuclear super-powered remote control to warp reality to suit his movie-inspired images. He first appears in the episode \"Fear Itself\" causing a disturbance in a movie rental outlet, angry over a non-mutual trivial dispute with the cashier regarding a sci-fi television series. The remote he self-designed is his only true source of power (sans a few movie-inspired weapons, such as a \"Star Trek\"-like Phaser gun and a quad-bladed Lightsaber culled from \"Star Wars\" and a variety of weaponry specially built to counter each member of the Titans only to be thwarted by having to face the differently-powered East Coast Titans whom he later tests with scenarios that involve even more machinery of his design); however, he rarely uses his intellect to accomplish anything meaningful, instead preferring to hype himself into superiority through television, the Internet, or by committing crimes in the hopes of garnering mass respect as a supervillain.\n\n\nin the \"Revved Up\" episode, Ding Dong Daddy is a large 1950s-style street racer who forces Robin to compete in a cross-country race against himself and a number of foes from the Titans' rogues gallery; the prize, a briefcase containing what is only identified as \"Robin's most prized possession\". Leading the majority of the race in his undersized Hot Rod, Ding Dong Daddy ultimately finishes in second place to Robin. Having won the race, Robin reclaims his briefcase from Ding Dong Daddy. It is never revealed how Ding Dong Daddy acquired Robin's briefcase, nor what is actually inside.\n\n\nA recurring secondary villain in the series, Dr. Light—as his name implies—is a normal, powerless man who is often in use of a battle suit with offensive-capability light-energy weapons. While the most common offensive use of his suits are the firing of laser beams, he can also generate tangible solid objects from light such as laser whips, fireballs, trapping orbs, and forcefields.\n\n\nFang is a mutant; he is human from the neck down, but has a giant four-legged spider in place of a head. The legs of his spider head have the ability to move at fast speeds and jump vast distances, while the head itself is capable of firing sticky webs and paralysis-inflicting venom beams.\n\n\nDebuting in \"Date With Destiny\", Killer Moth is an evil lepidopterist with command over swarms of large mutated moths that are capable of eating through anything. He is also presumably a human-moth hybrid himself; dressed in a moth-like body armor complete with razor-sharp claws and a pair of wings, he has an elevated level of speed, strength and reflexes, has the ability to adhere to walls, as well as limited flight and hovering capabilities. In the series, Killer Moth is the father of Kitten, the breeder of Titans mascot Silkie, and may have had a hand in the creation of Kitten's mutant boyfriend, Fang.\n\n\nKitten is the spoiled and bratty daughter of Killer Moth and the girlfriend of Fang. She first appears in the episode \"Date With Destiny\", when Fang breaks up with her for unexplained reasons. Not wanting to attend the junior prom alone, she talks her father into threatening the city with a large swarm of mutant moths to force Robin to become her date, which instigated a fight between Fang and Robin, and then between Kitten and a jealous Starfire. It would be revealed that Kitten secretly had control of the moth's release trigger concealed in her corsage, but she, Fang, and Killer Moth are ultimately apprehended and jailed; as she is loaded into the police truck, she angrily screams that \"Robbie-Poo\" would pay for dumping her. Later on, the trio would appear as members of the Brotherhood of Evil; Kitten, riding atop a giant mutant moth and wielding a laser whip, confronts and defeats Starfire in \"Calling All Titans\", but it is later revealed that Starfire had escaped. Before attacking Starfire, Kitten swipes her communicator and uses it to taunt her former beau, Robin. Unlike Fang and Killer Moth, she didn't participate in the final battle of \"Titans Together\".\n\n\nMad Mod is a psychedelic red-headed British villain with the mannerisms of a strict schoolmarm, whose root source of power comes from his ruby-tipped cane. It is later revealed that Mod is actually an old man who is given to the use of holograms of his younger self. He is also formidable for his use of hypnotic suggestion which has a stupefying and lobotomizing effect on its victims.\n\n\nThe Master of Games is an ape-like humanoid alien creature with the mannerisms of a game show host who takes the three male Titans along with Gizmo, Hot Spot, Wildebeest, Aqualad, and Speedy to his world in \"Winner Take All\" in order to hold a \"Tournament of Heroes;\" in reality, he is attempting to steal all of their unique skills and powers with his magic amulet.\n\nHis plan ultimately fails when Robin, the winner of his tournament, unites with Cyborg and Speedy to defeat him and destroy his amulet; after the males are returned home at the episode's conclusion, he immediately regenerates somehow and—as a cliffhanger ending to that episode—captures a cast of potential female victims composed of Raven, Starfire, Terra, and five others in silhouette (\"presumptively Argent, Kole, Bumblebee, Jinx, and Wonder Girl\") for an alleged \"Tournament of Heroines\". Though the events of that contest are unknown, it can be presumed that he is defeated by the heroines as well.\n\nHe is later inducted into the Brotherhood of Evil in the final season; after getting knocked out easily by Pantha in the early portion of the final battle of \"Titans Together\", his exact fate is unknown.\n\nIn the \"Teen Titans\" video game, he serves as the main antagonist, but is not the game's final boss.\n\nA version of the Master of Games appears in \"Teen Titans Go! vs. Teen Titans\", voiced by Rhys Darby. His appearance is drastically different than the original series as he is now a short, blue humanoid with red eyes. He claims to be a being that travels the multiverse to find the best versions of particular heroes by having them compete against their counterparts, and pits the Teen Titans Go! versions of the Titans against the Titans from the original animated series. He is later revealed to be Trigon in disguise, who organized the fight to siphon Raven's demonic powers.\n\n\nMother Mae-Eye is a haggish witch with candy-themed magical powers and a mass-produced army of gingerbread cookie soldiers. In her human form, she appears as a plump, rosy-cheeked and kindly woman dressed in a red, white and pink outfit, but she is actually a three-eyed, ugly, wart-nosed witch capable of growing and shrinking in size. Mae-Eye feeds on the \"\"sweet, nourishing affection\"\" of her victims; she then traps and bakes them within a gigantic pie in a giant potbelly stove under the guise of their \"5:00 bedtime\" when their love reaches its maximum. She becomes angered when her victims either come out of the spell on their own, or refuse to eat her pies; in addition to the pies, she is armed with a magical wooden spoon that she uses for most of her fantastical powers. She is named after the children's game \"Mother May I?\".\n\n\nThe Amazing Mumbo is a turquoise-skinned magician whose powers are largely based on stage magic feats; Robin describes him as a \"former stage magician now employing his skills for theft and mayhem\". It would appear that Mumbo is designed as a pastiche of Freakazoid and The Joker. He is actually an old man, but uses the wand to give himself youth, turquoise skin, white hair, and magic powers usually summoned through stereotypical magic words and phrases such as \"Abracadabra\", \"Alakazam\", \"Open Sesame\", \"Hocus Pocus\", and \"Mumbo Jumbo\". He also has the ability to turn people into animals. He seems to be jealous of Raven's magical abilities.\n\n\nOverload is a roughly humanoid electric monster with a red-and-black circuit board at its core. It harnesses a series of electrical attacks and the ability to control and manipulate electric-powered machinery, but as the creature is composed largely of electricity, it is extremely vulnerable to water.\n\n\nDebuting in the series premiere episode \"Divide and Conquer\", Plasmus is featured multiple times in the series as a secondary villain. As revealed in this episode, Plasmus is a normal human being for as long as he is in a state of sleep; whenever awakened, he metamorphosizes into a mindless, shape-shifting monstrous creature composed of a protoplasmic mud-like slime that has an insatiable appetite for toxic waste and raw sewage.\n\n\nProfessor Chang is a mad scientist who runs an underground smuggling operation providing illegal services for higher-tier villains. He has several workers helping him, but they all wear suits and helmets which hide their faces, and they never speak.\n\n\nDebuting in the \"Masks\" episode, Red X was a mysterious ghost-like master thief stealing valuable computer chips that Slade had expressed interest in obtaining. He proved to be a highly formidable adversary to the Titans in their attempts to stop him, for Red X seemed able to exploit the weaknesses of each individual Titan with little effort.\n\n\nA supporting villain from the \"\" movie, Saico-Tek is a high-tech Japanese ninja; he bears a modest resemblance to Tiger Mask, and is most distinguishable by his half-cyan, half-magenta body armor. He wields and generates any number of high-tech ninja weapons, including a rocket-propelled jet pack, nunchucks, exploding throwing stars and smoke bombs, many of which take after Saico-Tek's cyan-magenta color scheme.\n\n\nA former mechanic and ally of Atlas.\n\n\nTrident is an Atlantean criminal armed with the mystical weapon of his namesake, first appearing as the main villain of the \"Deep Six\" episode.\n\n\nFeatured only once in the episode \"The Prophecy\", Arella is revealed to be Raven's biological mother, having conceived her with the demonic Trigon. Raven inherits much of her looks from her mother; decked in a white robe, Arella has short-cut violet hair and a Chakra stone on her forehead with the modest exception of a more even, natural flesh tone.\n\nRaven, in desperation to avoid her obligation to release her father upon Earth, travels to her ancestral home of Azarath hoping to find a way to avert the impending apocalypse. She finds, however, that Azarath is largely abandoned, save for a flock of doves which she finds Arella caring for. Arella somberly informs Raven that the prophecy she is to fulfill can't be stopped, and that Earth will fall to Trigon just as Azarath once did; at that moment, the illusion of Azarath falls away and the realm is found to be in fiery ruins—the obvious work of Trigon.\n\nIt is never revealed if Arella herself was a product of the illusion, existing as a spirit of the lost civilization, or if she is actually Azarath's lone survivor of Trigon's wrath.\n\n\nBatman—the legendary crime-fighter who trained Robin—never appears in the animated series, nor is he ever referred to by name. However, his existence is nonetheless referenced in a number of episodes, proving that Robin in fact \"did\" work for Batman, having taken the righteousness oath that drives them both to fight crime and battle evil.\n\n\nThough never addressed by his actual name, Wintergreen appears in the series as Slade's butler and right-hand man. He appears as an old man in a white suit and tie, with white gloves and a black dress shirt.\n\n"}
{"id": "2063088", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2063088", "title": "St. Xavier High School (Louisville)", "text": "St. Xavier High School (Louisville)\n\nSt. Xavier High School is an all-male, college preparatory Xaverian Brothers-sponsored school in Louisville, Kentucky. It is located in the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Louisville. St. Xavier was founded in 1864 by Br. Paul Van Gerwen, C.F.X. The school is located on Poplar Level Road. St. Xavier is the only school in Kentucky that has received the Blue Ribbon of Excellence Award four times, the most recent of which was awarded in 2016. St. Xavier has also been renovating the school grounds with Project X, an initiative to raise $28 million for new academic and athletic facilities. In total Project X raised $29.1 million for the school. In 2016, it was voted \"Best Private High School\" in the Louisville Magazine.\n\nSt. Xavier has the largest enrollment of boys among Kentucky high schools, and had been the only school in Kentucky to have won a state championship in every Kentucky High School Athletic Association (KHSAA)-sanctioned sport open to boys before the KHSAA began sponsoring coeducational championships in bass fishing and archery in the early 21st century. St. Xavier has one of the most successful athletic program in Kentucky, having won 172 boys' state championships across 13 different KHSAA sports. In 2005, St. Xavier was ranked #14 in \"Sports Illustrated\" \"Best High School Athletic Programs\". In the 2009 fall semester, Saint X won all four fall sports. This is an unprecedented feat, taking home championships in soccer, football, cross country and golf.\n\nThe annual football game with traditional local rival Trinity High School at Cardinal Stadium is promoted by the schools as the most-attended annual regular-season high school football game in the country, typically drawing over 35,000 fans. The largest crowd was 38,500 and the 2007 edition of the game had an announced attendance of 37,550. Both teams have also met in the KHSAA Commonwealth Gridiron Bowl. As of 2018, St. Xavier has 12 state championships, with the last one being in 2009. In 2018, St. X announced that Kevin Wallace would be named new football head coach after Will Wolford announced that he would resign. The swim team has won thirty-one consecutive state swimming championships, a national record for consecutive state championships out of any sport. They have beat the record from a high school in the Hawaiian Islands\n. In addition to this, the swim team has captured 55 swimming state titles overall, which is a national record. The golf team has won the McDonald's Tournament of Champions national event multiple times and sent numerous golfers on to NCAA Division I colleges such as Kentucky, Louisville, Alabama, Wake Forest, Clemson, Cornell, Tennessee, Florida, Florida State, Oklahoma State, Ohio State and Purdue. In 2016, St. X made a 3-peat by winning its 21st title and joined Louisville Male High School to win more than 2 more titles.\n\nAs of 2018, the cross country team has won 6 of the last 7 State Championships, and was nationally ranked in the top 15 in 2012-13. In 2012, the team which consisted of 6 future NCAA DI athletes, qualified for and competed in Nike Cross Nationals, the only consensus national championship competition in all of American High School athletics. The Tigers placed 14th. In 2016, the cross country team was ranked 13th at the nationals. In addition, it won several titles along with Floyd Central at a Tiger Run meeting. The soccer team has won eight state championships since 2000, earning top 10 rankings in national polls while doing so.\n\nSaint Xavier has done renovations with Project X. Project X first did renovations with a $3 million classroom. Project X also resulted in a new tennis facility, complete with concessions and seating for 300 spectators, a new baseball stadium and a new 6,100 seat football stadium, complete with two private suites, an 8-lane rubberized track, new space for offices and locker rooms. The Tigers opened the new baseball complex on March 26, 2007, with a 10-0 win over Meade County, opened the football stadium on August 24, 2007, with an 18-14 victory over Ballard and opened the 2,000 seat basketball arena with a 73-53 win over South Oldham on January 20, 2009.\n\nWith the conclusion of Project X, St. Xavier now boasts some of the best high school athletic facilities in the nation. Including an indoor golf facility on campus.\n\nAcademics\n\nAthletics'\n\nBusiness\n\nEntertainment and media\nGovernment\nWithin the past four years, Saint Xavier has transformed an existing computer lab space into a high-tech Innovation Lab. This space is open to all students and a variety of classes which make use of the technology within to enhance further learning in the classroom. The technology inside includes\n\n"}
{"id": "2063107", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2063107", "title": "George Plater", "text": "George Plater\n\nGeorge Plater III (November 8, 1735 – February 10, 1792) was an American planter, lawyer, and statesman from Saint Mary's County, Maryland. He represented Maryland in the Continental Congress from 1778 to 1780, and briefly served as the sixth Governor of Maryland in 1791 and 1792.\n\nGeorge Plater III was born at Sotterley, the family plantation near Leonardtown, Province of Maryland. His father (George II) had married Rebecca Addison Bowles, the widow of the plantation's founder, in 1729. His grandfather, George Plater I, was the acting Attorney General, 1691-1692; Receiver for Patuxent 1691-1707; Collector of Patuxent, 1691-1696; Receiver for Pocomoke, 1696-1697; Receiver General for Maryland, 1693-1696; and naval officer at Patuxent, 1693-1707. His siblings include Rebecca Plater Tayloe (born 8/8/1731 at Leonards Town, St. Marys Co, MD), wife of John Tayloe II; Anne (born 10/31/1732 at Leonards Town, St. Marys Co, MD), wife of Edward Lloyd (married 1767); Thomas Addison (born 10/27/1738 at Sotterley, St. Marys Co, MD, died in infancy); and Elizabeth Norton (born 8/7/1742 in St. Marys Co, MD), wife of Rodham Kenner and later, wife of Thomas Davis.\n\nAfter receiving his early schooling at home, he attended the College of William and Mary in Williamsburg, Virginia, graduating in 1752. In 1753 he studied law in England and was admitted to the bar in Maryland. During 1757-1759 he was a delegate in the Maryland Lower House of Assembly. In 1767-77 he was a naval officer of the Patuxent District, and in 1771-74 he was a member of the Governor's Council. As the Revolution neared, he represented St. Mary's County in the Annapolis Convention, which became a revolutionary government. He was appointed by the Maryland Council of Safety to collect funds for the attack on Quebec. On August 14, 1776 he was appointed to the ninth convention to draft Maryland's first Constitution.\n\nUnder the new constitution, Plater served as President of the Maryland State Senate from 1781 until 1790. Maryland sent him as a delegate to the Continental Congress in 1778, and he represented his state until 1781.\n\nWhen Maryland held a convention to consider the U.S. Constitution, Plater attended and was the president of the convention when they voted for ratification on April 28, 1788. The following year he was chosen as a Presidential elector. However, he did not vote.\n\nIn late 1791 Plater was elected Governor, and took office in December. However, his term was short; he died after less than three months in office. He was buried at Sotterley, Maryland, but the site of his grave is unknown.\n\nPlater was an active Protestant who served twenty-eight years as a vestryman of St. Andrew's Episcopal Church (which he helped to found and build).\n\nHe was first married to Hannah Lee and their only child was Charlotte (born circa 9/1763; died young). He later married Elizabeth Ann Rousby, and they had six children: Rebecca, George, John, Thomas, Edward, and Ann. Rebecca Plater (born 3/8/1765) married General Uriah Forrest, a statesman and military leader. She was the grandmother of Alice Green, wife of Prince Don Angel Maria de Iturbide y Huarte, who were in turn the parents of Prince Don Agustín de Iturbide y Green- Head of the Imperial House of Mexico. George Plater IV (born 9/21/1766 in St. Mary's Co, Maryland, died 4/10/1802 at Sotterley) married Cecelia Brown Bond (on 3/22/1798), and later married Elizabeth Somerville. John Rousby Plater (born 10/15/1767 at Annapolis, Anne Arundel, Maryland) married Elizabeth Tuttle and was a lawyer and judge. Thomas Plater (born 5/5/1769 at Annapolis, Anne Arundel, Maryland) married Ann Lingan and later married Evelina Hite Buchanan. He was a lawyer and would go on to represent Maryland in the United States House of Representatives. Ann Plater (born 9/23/1770 at Sotterley, St. Marys Co, Maryland) married Philip Barton Key. Their daughter Elizabeth Rousby Key was the wife of Louisiana's fifth governor, Henry Johnson and a first cousin to Francis Scott Key. Their son, Philip Barton Key, Jr., served prior to the American Civil War as a member of the Louisiana House of Representatives for Lafourche Parish, Louisiana. He was educated in the law by his cousin Francis Scott Key.\n\nWhen Plater died on February 10, 1792 in the capital city of Annapolis, Maryland, his body was returned home and buried at Sotterley, on the banks of the Patuxent River in St. Mary's County. At least 93 enslaved persons lived on the plantation at the time of the subject's death. The house is maintained and operated as a museum by a foundation created for that purpose. The property is on Route 245, just outside Hollywood, Maryland, and is open to visitors during the summer.\n\n"}
{"id": "2063117", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2063117", "title": "Caudovirales", "text": "Caudovirales\n\nCaudovirales is an order of viruses known as the tailed bacteriophages (\"cauda\" is Latin for \"tail\"). Under the Baltimore classification scheme, the \"Caudovirales\" are group I viruses as they have double stranded DNA (dsDNA) genomes, which can be anywhere from 18,000 base pairs to 500,000 base pairs in length. The virus particles have a distinct shape; each virion has an icosahedral head that contains the viral genome, and is attached to a flexible tail by a connector protein. The order encompasses a wide range of viruses, many containing genes of similar nucleotide sequence and function. However, some tailed bacteriophage genomes can vary quite significantly in nucleotide sequence, even among the same genus. Due to their characteristic structure and possession of potentially homologous genes, it is believed these bacteriophages possess a common origin.\n\nThere are currently nine families, 44 subfamilies, 671 genera, and 1,967 species in the order. This makes \"Caudovirales\" the most populous order among viruses, accounting for approximately 30% of all recognized virus species and nearly half of all virus genera.\n\nUpon encountering a host bacterium, the tail section of the virion binds to receptors on the cell surface and delivers the DNA into the cell by use of an injectisome-like mechanism (an injectisome is a nanomachine that evolved for the delivery of proteins by type III secretion). The tail section of the virus punches a hole through the bacterial cell wall and plasma membrane and the genome passes down the tail into the cell. Once inside the genes are expressed from transcripts made by the host machinery, using host ribosomes. Typically, the genome is replicated by use of concatemers, in which overlapping segments of DNA are made, and then put together to form the whole genome.\n\nViral capsid proteins come together to form a precursor prohead, into which the genome enters. Once this has occurred, the prohead undergoes maturation by cleavage of capsid subunits to form an icosahedral phage head with 5-fold symmetry. After the head maturation, the tail is joined in one of two ways: Either the tail is constructed separately, and joined with the connector, or the tail is constructed directly onto the phage head. The tails consist of helix based proteins with 6-fold symmetry. After maturation of virus particles, the cell is lysed by lysins, holins, or a combination of the two.\n\nBecause of the lack of homology between the amino acid and DNA sequences of these viruses these factors are precluded from being used as taxonomic markers as is common for other organisms, the three families discussed below (\"Myoviridae\", \"Podoviridae\", and \"Siphoviridae\") are defined on the basis of morphology. This classification scheme was originated by Bradley in 1969 and has been extended since.\n\nAll viruses in this order have icosahedral or oblate heads but differ in the length and contractile abilities of their tails. The \"Myoviridae\" have long tails that are contractile; the \"Podoviridae\" have short noncontractile tails; and the \"Siphoviridae\" have long noncontractile tails. \"Siphoviridae\" constitute the majority of the known tailed viruses.\n\nBradley referred to what is now known as the \"Myoviridae\" as type A, \"Siphoviridae\" as type B, and the \"Podoviridae\" as type C. He also divided his groups on the basis of head morphology: Within group A, A1 have small isometric heads; A2 have prolate heads; and A3 have elongated heads. Within groups B and C, numbers were similarly assigned: B1 and C1 have small isometric heads; B2 and C2 have prolate heads; and B3 and C3 have elongated heads.\n\nIn addition the aforementioned three families, a total of nine families and one \"incertae sedis\" genus exists in the order:\n\nBacteriophages occur in over 195 bacterial or archaeal genera. They arose repeatedly in different hosts and there are at least 11 separate lines of descent. Over 6300 bacteriophages have been examined in the electron microscope since 1959. Of these, more than 96 percent have tails. Of the tailed phages, about 57 percent have long, noncontractile tails (\"Siphoviridae\"). Tailed phages appear to be monophyletic and are the oldest known virus group.\n\n"}
{"id": "2063123", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2063123", "title": "Todd McMillon", "text": "Todd McMillon\n\nTodd Merlin McMillon (born September 26, 1974) is a former American football cornerback, formerly of the Chicago Bears of the NFL. He was signed originally as an undrafted free agent out of Northern Arizona University. He also spent three years with the Saskatchewan Roughriders of the CFL.\n\nMcMillon models for such retailers as the GAP in his spare time, which has earned him the nickname \"Runway\" with his teammates. He also appeared on an episode of \"Teammates\" on ESPN with teammate Brian Urlacher.\n\nIn June 2013, McMillon was told by his doctor that he had prostate cancer, and stated, \"When he told me I was positive for cancer, I just went numb. I thought he had the wrong test. I played in the NFL. I am super healthy. I work out all the time, so I am in really good shape. I was like, 'This can't be me. I'm only 39 and I have prostate cancer?'\" In August, McMillon had his prostate removed, which had contained the disease.\n"}
{"id": "2063135", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2063135", "title": "Kulpenberg", "text": "Kulpenberg\n\nThe Kulpenberg is a high mountain in the Kyffhäuser mountains, Thuringia, Germany. On it is the Kulpenberg TV tower, a telecommunication tower.\n"}
{"id": "2063136", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2063136", "title": "Viviani (crater)", "text": "Viviani (crater)\n\nViviani is a small lunar impact crater that lies on the far side of the Moon. It was named after Italian mathematician and physicist Vincenzo Viviani. It is located due west of the prominent crater King, and just to the southeast of Katchalsky.\n\nThis is a roughly circular, bowl-shaped crater with a well-defined rim edge and an inner wall that is wider along the southeastern half. A small crater has cut into the southern rim edge, and another small crater is attached to the exterior along the east. The inner walls are simple slopes that run down to the relatively level and featureless floor.\n\nBy convention these features are identified on lunar maps by placing the letter on the side of the crater midpoint that is closest to Viviani.\n\nViviani, along with another crater, Bingham, is referenced in the Midsomer Murders season 14 episode 'Dark Secrets'.\n\n"}
{"id": "2063140", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2063140", "title": "Victor Wickerhauser", "text": "Victor Wickerhauser\n\nMladen Victor Wickerhauser was born in Zagreb, SR Croatia, in 1959. He is a graduate of the California Institute of Technology, and Yale University.\n\nHe is currently a professor of Mathematics and of Biomedical Engineering at Washington University in St. Louis. He has six U.S. patents and more than 100 publications. One of these, \"Entropy-based Algorithms for Best Basis Selection,\" led to the Wavelet Scalar Quantization (WSQ) image compression algorithm, used by the FBI to encode fingerprint images.\n\nWickerhauser has been a member of the American Mathematical Society and the Society for Industrial and Applied Mathematics and has received the 2002 Wavelet Pioneer Award from SPIE (The International Society for Optical Engineering).\n\nHe is of Austrian descent.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2063141", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2063141", "title": "The Devil's Rejects", "text": "The Devil's Rejects\n\nThe Devil's Rejects is a 2005 American road neo-Western horror film written, produced and directed by Rob Zombie, and it is the second film in the \"Firefly\" film series, a sequel to his 2003 film \"House of 1000 Corpses\". The film is centered on the run of three members of the psychopathic antagonist family from the previous film, now seen as villainous protagonists, with Sid Haig, Bill Moseley, and Zombie's wife Sheri Moon Zombie reprising their roles, and Leslie Easterbrook replacing Karen Black as the matriarch.\n\nThe film was released on July 22, 2005, to minor commercial success and mixed but more positive reviews over its predecessor. At the time of release and in the years since, the film has garnered a cult following. This is the final film to feature actor Matthew McGrory before his death the same year (although McGrory did have an uncredited posthumous cameo in 2017's \"The Evil Within\", which was filmed in 2002). The film's DVD release is dedicated to his \"loving memory\".\n\nSeven months later after the Halloween sacrifice, on May 18, 1978, Texas Sheriff John Quincey Wydell and a large posse of state troopers issue a search and destroy mission on the Firefly family for over 75 homicides and disappearances over the past several years. The family arm themselves and fire on the officers. Rufus is killed and Mother Firefly is taken into custody, while Otis and Baby escape. They steal a car and, after killing the driver, they go to Kahiki Palms, a run-down motel.\n\nWhile at the motel, Otis and Baby take a band called Banjo and Sullivan hostage in their room, and Otis shoots the roadie when he returns. Meanwhile, Baby's father, Captain Spaulding, decides to rendezvous with Baby and Otis. En route, his truck runs out of gas, and he frightens a boy and assaults the boy's mother before stealing her car. Back at the motel, Otis rapes Roy's wife Gloria and demands Adam and Roy come with him on an errand.\n\nOtis drives his two prisoners to a place where he buried weapons. While walking to the location, the two prisoners attack Otis, but Otis bludgeons Roy and cuts Adam's face off. Back at the motel, Adam's wife Wendy tries to escape out the bathroom window. When Gloria attempts to rebel, Baby kills her. Wendy runs out of the motel but is caught by Captain Spaulding, who knocks her unconscious. Otis returns, and all three leave the motel together in the band's van.\n\nThe motel maid comes to clean the room, and she discovers the murder scene. The maid enters the bathroom, where she sees \"The Devil's Rejects\" written on the wall in blood; she is startled by Wendy, who is accidentally killed when she runs out to the highway to seek help while she is in shock. Wydell calls a pair of amoral bounty hunters—the \"Unholy Two\"—Rondo and Billy Ray, to help him find the Fireflys. While investigating, they discover an associate of Spaulding's named Charlie Altamont. Wydell begins to lose his sanity when Mother Firefly reveals that she murdered his brother. After having a dream in which his brother commands him to avenge his death, Wydell stabs Mother Firefly to death. The surviving Fireflys gather at a brothel owned by Charlie, where he offers them shelter from the police.\n\nAfter he leaves the brothel, Wydell threatens Charlie to give up the Fireflys. With the help of the \"Unholy Two\", the sheriff takes the family back to the Firefly house where he tortures them, using similar methods they used on their own victims. He nails Otis' hands to his chair and staples crime scene photographs to Otis's and Baby's stomachs; he then beats and shocks Captain Spaulding and Otis with a cattle prod and taunts Baby about the death of her mother.\n\nWydell sets the house on fire and leaves Otis and Spaulding to burn, but he lets Baby loose outside so he can hunt her for sport. Charlie returns to save the Firefly family, but he is killed by Wydell. Baby gets shot in the calf of her left leg, brutally horse-whipped, and then strangled by Wydell. Tiny suddenly arrives and intervenes, breaking Wydell's neck and saving the Firefly family. Otis, Baby, and Spaulding escape in Charlie's 1972 Cadillac Eldorado, leaving behind Tiny, who walks back into the burning house. The trio drives, badly injured and seemingly humbled by their experience with a clearer understanding of the torment and anguish that they had put their past victims through. As Otis drives down the road with Baby and Spaulding asleep in the back seat he notices a police barricade ahead of them. Realizing that they will not make it out alive, he wakes Baby and Spaulding and hands them each a gun. As a song playing on the radio declares they \"can't change\", they speed toward the barricade, guns blazing, as the police return fire.\n\nWhen Rob Zombie wrote \"House of 1000 Corpses\", he had a \"vague idea for a story\" about the brother of the sheriff that the Firefly clan killed coming back for revenge. After Lions Gate Entertainment made back all of their money on the first day of \"Corpses\"' theatrical release, they wanted Zombie to make another film and he started to seriously think about a new story. With \"Rejects\", Zombie has said that he wanted to make it \"more horrific\" and the characters less cartoonish than in \"Corpses\", and that he wanted \"to make something that was almost like a violent western. Sort of like a road movie.\" He has also cited films like \"Bonnie and Clyde\" (1967), \"The Wild Bunch\" (1969), \"Badlands\" (1973) and \"The Texas Chain Saw Massacre\" (1974) as influences on \"Rejects\". When he approached William Forsythe about doing the film, he told the actor that the inspiration for how to portray his character came from actors like Lee Marvin and Robert Shaw. Sheri Moon Zombie does not see the film as a sequel: \"It's more like some of the characters from \"House of 1000 Corpses\" came on over, and now they're the Devil's Rejects.\"\n\nZombie hired Phil Parmet, who had shot the documentary \"Harlan County, USA\", because he wanted to adopt a hand-held camera/documentary look. Principal photography was emotionally draining for some of the actors. Sheri Moon Zombie remembers a scene she had to do with Forsythe that required her to cry. The scene took two to three hours to film and affected her so much that she did not come into work for two days afterward.\n\n\"Rejects\" went through the MPAA eight times earning an NC-17 rating every time until the last one. According to Zombie, the censors had a problem with the overall tone of the film. Specifically, censors did not like the motel scene between Bill Moseley and Priscilla Barnes, forcing Zombie to cut two minutes of it for the theatrical release. However, this footage was restored in the DVD version.\n\nRob Zombie, who is a musician, decided to go with more southern rock to create the mood of the film. The soundtrack itself was notable as being one of the first to be released on DualDisc, with the DVD side featuring a making-of featurette for the film and a photo gallery.\n\n\"The Devil's Rejects\" was released on July 22, 2005, in 1,757 theaters and grossed USD$7.1 million on its opening weekend, recouping its roughly $7 million budget. It grossed $17 million in North America and $2.3 million internationally for a total of $19.4 million.\n\nThe film received mixed reviews. On Rotten Tomatoes the film has an approval rating of 54% rating based on 138 reviews, with an average rating of 5.43/10. The site's consensus reads: \"Zombie has improved as a filmmaker since \"House of 1000 Corpses\" and will please fans of the genre, but beware—the horror is nasty, relentless and sadistic\". On Metacritic the film has a weighted average score of 53 out of 100 based on reviews from 32 critics, indicating \"Mixed or average reviews\".\n\nCritic Roger Ebert enjoyed the film and gave it three out of four stars. He wrote, \"There is actually some good writing and acting going on here, if you can step back from the [violent] material enough to see it\". Later, in his review for \"The Hills Have Eyes\", Ebert referenced \"The Devil's Rejects\", writing, \"I received some appalled feedback when I praised Rob Zombie's \"The Devil's Rejects\", but I admired two things about it [that were absent from \"The Hills Have Eyes\"]: (1) It desired to entertain and not merely to sicken, and (2) its depraved killers were individuals with personalities, histories and motives\". In his review for \"Rolling Stone\", Peter Travers gave \"The Devil's Rejects\" three out of four stars and wrote, \"Let's hear it for the Southern-fried soundtrack, from Buck Owens' 'Satan's Got to Get Along Without Me' to Lynyrd Skynyrd's 'Free Bird', playing over the blood-soaked finale, which manages to wed \"The Wild Bunch\" to \"Thelma & Louise\"\". Richard Roeper gave the film \"thumbs up\" for being successful at its goal to be the \"sickest, the most twisted, the most deranged movie\" at that point of the year (2005).\n\nIn her review for \"The New York Times\", Dana Stevens wrote that the film \"is a \"trompe-l'œil\" experiment in deliberately retro film-making. It looks sensational, but there is a curious emptiness at its core\". \"Entertainment Weekly\" gave the film a \"C+\" rating and wrote, \"Zombie's characters are, to put it mildly, undeveloped\". Robert K. Elder, of the \"Chicago Tribune\", disliked the film, writing \"[D]espite decades of soaking in bloody classics such as the original \"Texas Chainsaw Massacre\" and \"I Spit on Your Grave\", Zombie didn't absorb any of the underlying social tension or heart in those films. He's no collage artist of influences, like Quentin Tarantino, crafting his movie from childhood influences. \"Rejects\" plays more like a junkyard of homages, strewn together and lost among inept cops, gaping plot holes and buzzard-ready dialog\".\n\nHorror author Stephen King rated \"The Devil's Rejects\" the 9th best film of 2005 and wrote, \"No redeeming social merit, perfect '70s C-grade picture cheesy glow; this must be what Quentin Tarantino meant when he did those silly \"Kill Bill\" pictures\".\n\nIn January 2018, it was rumoured that a sequel, \"3 from Hell\", was in production. Rob Zombie confirmed this via Instagram on March 13, 2018, sharing a photo from the director's seat. A teaser trailer for \"3 from Hell\" was released on June 10, 2019, and the film opened in September 2019.\n\n"}
{"id": "2063144", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2063144", "title": "Tracey Adams", "text": "Tracey Adams\n\nTracey Adams (born Debra Blaisdell on June 7, 1958) is an American former pornographic film actress who has also appeared in mainstream films. She appeared in over 300 movies during the 1980s and 1990s, and is an AVN Hall of Fame founding inductee.\n\nAdams moved to the west coast in the early 80s to pursue a career in entertainment. She worked in various jobs such as a commercial diver in San Diego. Later she began nude modeling before entering porn. By 1991, Adams began appearing less in American porn and usually was cast in mature roles. Adams also worked in European porn, becoming a celebrity there and appeared on billboards and guest starred on Italian soap operas. \n\nIn addition to her adult appearances, Adams has also appeared in mainstream movies, such as the comedy movies \"Wimps\" (1986) and \"Student Affairs\" (1987), the thriller \"Enrapture\" (1989), and the movie \"Killer\" (1990), credited as Deborah Blaisdell. She also appeared in the French TV movie \"La femme en noir\" (1988).\n\nAdams testified in April 1987 in San Fernando Municipal Court in a case of two men charged with felony pandering in the production of sex videotapes. Adams and five other performers, among them Stacey Donovan and Steve Drake, testified that they were paid to go to a Sand Canyon home on June 18, 1986, and perform sex acts before cameras. Adams said she was paid to perform but not paid to have sex. The performers were hired by Cinderella Distributors, run by Charles Brickman and Thomas Ingalls. Adams and the other performers testified that Ingalls was the cameraman during the shooting session, and that they were paid in cash after the session. They said their daily pay ranged from $300 for Drake to $1,000 for Donovan. The felony pandering charges were later dropped against Brickman, who pleaded no contest and agreed to testify against Ingalls. He had faced a sentence of between 3 and 13 years in prison.\n\nAccording to a 1991 article in the \"Los Angeles Times\", \"Although she is free-thinking, Adams is anything but the free-spirited sexual athlete her fans like to imagine. She worries about crime and overpopulation and drinks two vodkas medicinally each night to help her sleep. She sponsors two poverty-stricken children in foreign countries. Her rented bungalow in West Los Angeles might be the home of any anxious, PBS-watching, middle-level executive except for the catalog of her sex tapes hidden behind a wood plank on an upper shelf in a back room.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2063169", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2063169", "title": "Beehive House", "text": "Beehive House\n\nThe Beehive House was one of the official residences of Brigham Young, the second president of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church). The Beehive House gets its name from the beehive sculpture atop the house.\n\nThe Beehive House was constructed in 1854, two years before the neighboring Lion House was built (also a residence of Young's). Both homes are one block east of the Salt Lake Temple and Temple Square on South Temple street in Salt Lake City, Utah. The home was designed by Young's brother-in-law and architect of the Salt Lake Temple, Truman O. Angell, who also designed the Lion House. It was constructed of adobe and sandstone.\n\nYoung was a polygamist, and the Beehive House was designed to accommodate his large family. The Lion House also became his official residence as governor of Utah Territory and president of the LDS Church. Upon its completion, Young briefly shared the Beehive House with his senior (and only legally recognized) wife Mary Ann Angell (1803–1882), though she chose to make her home in the White House, a smaller residence on the property. Young's first polygamous wife, Lucy Ann Decker Young (1822–1890), possibly due to her seniority, became hostess of the Beehive House and lived there with her nine children.\n\nThe Beehive House served as the executive mansion of Utah Territory from 1852 to 1855 and was where Young entertained guests. The home is connected by a suite of rooms to the Lion House. This suite included Young's offices and his private bedroom where he died in 1877.\n\nAfter Young's death, there was much dispute and some litigation by Young's heirs as to what was Young's property and what was the church's property. The Beehive House was among the properties in contention; although title was ultimately given to Young's heirs. The Beehive House was replaced as the executive mansion by the much grander Gardo House, at which time it was briefly occupied by Young's religious successors John Taylor and Wilford Woodruff.\n\nBeginning in the late 1880s, Young's son, John W. Young, added a large Victorian style addition to the rear of the building, and heavily remodeled the older portion of the home. The Young family lost the home when it was sold at auction in 1893 to satisfy debts held by John W. Young. John Beck, a successful miner and businessman, lived in the home for a short time before it was also sold to satisfy his creditors. Eventually it was purchased by the Church, and was used as the official home of church presidents Lorenzo Snow and his successor Joseph F. Smith, both of whom died in the mansion. Smith, who died in 1918, was the last church president to practice polygamy at the time of his death and shared the residence with four of his wives.\n\nIn 1920, the Young Women Mutual Improvement Association of the LDS Church opened the Beehive House as a boarding home for single women working in Salt Lake City, many of whom were working as secretaries at the adjacent buildings of the LDS Church's headquarters complex. It continued to operate as a boarding house until the 1950s.\n\nThe building was restored in 1959–60 under the direction of Georgius Y. Cannon, a grandson to Brigham Young. It is now a historic house museum with period furnishings (many original to the house) to depict the Young family's life in the mid-19th century. Daily tours are given by Church missionaries free of charge.\n\n"}
{"id": "2063170", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2063170", "title": "Tagetes tenuifolia", "text": "Tagetes tenuifolia\n\nTagetes tenuifolia, the signet marigold, golden marigold or lemon marigold, is a species of the wild marigold in the daisy family (Asteraceae). It is widespread across most of Mexico as well as Central America, Colombia, and Peru.\n\n\"Tagetes tenuifolia\" is an annual herb sometimes reaching as much as 50 cm (20 inches) tall. Leaves are less than 3 cm (1.2 inches) long, deeply divided into many small parts. The plant produces many small bright yellow flower heads in a flat-topped array, each head with 5 ray florets and 7-9 disc florets.\n\nThe plant's edible flowers can be used as a garnish because of its lemon-like flavor. \n\nMarigolds are regarded as one of the easiest plants to grow. They are very hardy, and may survive minor frosts. The plant is well suited to a mostly sunny position, and fairly well draining soil. Overly fertile soil may cause the plants to become bushy and produce less flowers. Marigolds come in a variety of colours, but mostly yellows and oranges, flowering in the middle of Summer. They can be planted out when there's no more risk of frosts. They can be purchased from most nurseries, and seeds are readily available in stores. It's often used as a companion plant for its insect-repelling properties.\n\nSome species of \"Tagetes\" possess a characteristic scent, which repels insects such as mosquitoes, small animals and smaller, burrowing insects. \"Tagetes tenuifolia\" is one of these and is often planted near small creeks or puddle prone areas to repel bugs, especially mosquitoes. It was also found that the \"Tagetes tenuifolia\" contains thiophene which is a biocidal compound that acts as a natural pesticide to control nematodes in the field.\n\nTraditionally, the plants were decocted and used as a treatment for snakebites in Mexico, and the leafs were used as medicine for bruises in Peru. \"Tagetes tenuifolia\" could also be used as treatments for stomach flu in terms of indigestion, constipation, infant diarrhea. \n\n"}
{"id": "2063172", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2063172", "title": "Mount Caburn", "text": "Mount Caburn\n\nMount Caburn is a 480-foot (146m) prominent landmark in East Sussex, England, about one mile (1.6 km) east of Lewes overlooking the village of Glynde. It is the highest part of an outlier of the South Downs, separated from the main range by Glynde Reach, a tributary of the River Ouse.\n\nOn the summit of Caburn are the remains of an Iron Age hill fort. The hill fort has been repeatedly excavated, by Augustus Pitt Rivers (1877–78), the Curwens (1925—26), the Curwens again (1937–38), and the Sussex Archaeological Society (1996–98). It may have the most excavations per site in Britain, with 170 trenches.\n\nPollen records (from peat at the southern base) indicate that prior to 2000 BC the hill was covered with dark yew woodlands. The fact that a single Neolithic leaf-shaped arrowhead is the only pre-Bronze Age find on Caburn, despite the extent and duration of excavations, suggests that there was little permanent occupation then.\n\nThe summit was initially enclosed in the middle Iron Age (c. 400 BC), with a deep V-shaped ditch and a bank of dumped spoil. Originally the ditch was 8m wide at the top, 2.7m deep, and enclosed an area of 1.9 ha.\n\nSince before the first excavations, it has been assumed that this enclosure was defensive, making a conventional hill fort. However the most recent excavators have challenged this assumption, arguing instead that the site was a religious enclosure, rather than a military fort or fortified farmstead. They point to the contents of the small pits, the insubstantial rampart, and its weak defensive attributes.\n\nThere are over 140 burial pits on Caburn: some are circular, some triangular and some rectangular. Each pit was found to be full of artefacts. Deposits included weapons, tools, pottery, coins, querns, and disarticulated human and animal bones. The most recent excavators argue that these are not random, or mere domestic rubbish, but are structured deposits and appear \"ritually charged\". The NE corner of the enclosure seemed to have special significance, because the high-status objects were mostly deposited there.\n\nOutside the original rampart, on the northern side, there is a great ditch cut into the chalk. This is the side most vulnerable to attack.\n\nThis outer ditch has long been assumed to be a late Iron Age (re-)fortification, perhaps in response to the threat from Rome. That assumption has now been disproved. The excavation of trenches through the chalk dump (the spoil had been dumped in the adjacent valley instead of being used to build a bank) and a small internal bank turned up Romano-British pottery. Therefore the outer ditch is Romano-British or later, perhaps a Saxon measure against Viking raids.\n\nCaburn has only been reoccupied sporadically since the great northern ditch was built, at the Norman Conquest and during Stephen's reign.\n\nIt appears that the Caburn was densely grazed during the Roman period, when the hill slopes around were a patchwork of rectangular ploughed fields. Then the hill probably returned to scrub, but by the Norman Conquest the Caburn was heavily grazed again and the hill slopes were ploughed into strips. Both the Roman rectangular fields and the medieval strips are still visible today.\n\nOver later centuries the dominant agricultural activity became sheep grazing. It was on Caburn and other local pastures that John Ellman reared his famous breed of Southdown sheep.\n\nDuring the Second World War two slit trenches and a three-sided Bren position were dug into Caburn as part of a 'stop-line' to defend against invasion.\n\nMount Caburn is now legally protected. It lies within the Lewes Downs SSSI (designated in 1953) and the Mount Caburn National Nature Reserve was established in the mid-1980s. It has been designated a Special Area of Conservation as an example of orchid-rich chalk grassland. It is home to a good population of stonechats.\n\nCaburn is unusual within the South Downs for having a south-facing scarp slope. The site has the largest British population of burnt-tip orchid. There is also the rare small-leaved sweet-briar, and the typical fragrant and pyramidal orchids. Invertebrates include Adonis and chalkhill blue butterflies and the scarce forester moth. Populations of stonechats live in scrubby bushes such as gorse near the golf club and in the valley below, along with other song birds such as blue tits. Herring gulls and carrion crows often fly overhead and hundreds of domestic sheep graze the area. There is a sheltered cave with a water trough where lost sheep can rest safely if they stray away from the flock on a dark night when the farmer is rounding up the animals.\n\nIn fiction Caburn appears as Wealden Hill in the novel of the same name by Graeme K Talboys. Caburn also features prominently in the novels and short stories of John Whitbourn (e.g. \"The Royal Changeling\" and \"Bury My Heart At Southerham (East Sussex)\"). Caburn also appears in the children's story \"Elsie Piddock Skips in Her Sleep\" (first published in 1937) by Eleanor Farjeon. It is mentioned in Kipling's poem \"The Run of the Downs.\"\n\nIt has only been called Mount Caburn since the end of the 18th century. The origins of the name are disputed.\n"}
{"id": "2063176", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2063176", "title": "Jack Stauffer", "text": "Jack Stauffer\n\nJack Stauffer (born December 3, 1945 in New York, New York, U.S.) is an American actor of film, television, and theater. He is also a director of theater productions.\n\nStauffer played the original Charles \"Chuck\" Tyler in \"All My Children\" and the character of Lieutenant Bojay in the original \"Battlestar Galactica\".\n\nTo date, Stauffer has guest starred on 60 different television shows (mini-series, regular series, and TV movies), \"numerous\" stage productions, and over 250 commercials.\n\n"}
{"id": "2063180", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2063180", "title": "Miko Tripalo", "text": "Miko Tripalo\n\nAnte \"Miko\" Tripalo (16 November 1926 – 11 December 1995) was a Croatian politician. He was one of the members of Croatian Spring, a movement for higher level of autonomy of SR Croatia within SFR Yugoslavia.\n\nA son of a well-to-do farmers' family near Sinj, in 1941 he joined the League of Communist Youth of Yugoslavia and Josip Broz Tito's Partisans. During the war, he was a commissar in the 8th Dalmatian Corps.\n\nLater he joined the Communist Party of Yugoslavia and rose through its ranks, getting many important positions in Yugoslavia.\n\nGradually, Tripalo rose to enough prominence to join the second generation of top Communist officials in Yugoslavia. They were, under tacit blessing of Tito, supposed to introduce various economic and political reforms in late 1960s. Tripalo, together with Savka Dabčević-Kučar, became one of the leaders of the Croatian Communist Party.\n\nIn 1970, Tripalo and Dabčević-Kučar introduced a new party platform that demanded more autonomy for Croatia within Yugoslavia. The platform was promoted through mass rallies, soon becoming a popular movement, later called Croatian Spring. Dabčević-Kučar and Tripalo became the most popular politicians in Croatia at the time.\n\nThe new policy was opposed by more conservative elements of the party and Yugoslav People's Army and also created many ethnic tensions in parts of Croatia with large Serb minority. That, and Croatian students making even more radical demands, finally led Tito to openly turn against Dabčević-Kučar and Tripalo at Karađorđevo Party conference in December 1971. Dabčević-Kučar and Tripalo were quickly removed from their Party positions and, ultimately, from public life.\n\nIn 1989, with an arrival of multi-party democracy in Croatia, Tripalo re-emerged in Croatian politics as one of the top opposition figures. He published a book called \"Croatian Spring\", claiming that the movement, previously known as Maspok, was inspired by Prague Spring and extinguished in the same manner.\n\nTripalo and Dabčević-Kučar believed themselves to be the obvious leaders of Croatian opposition, although they refused to form their own party. Instead, they initiated creation of Coalition of People's Accord – a broad alliance of mostly moderate nationalist parties – whom they led during 1990 parliamentary elections. Their hopes were soon extinguished due to electoral law favouring only the two strongest parties, one of them being the Croatian Communist Party, recently rebranded into Social Democratic Party of Croatia. The other, more likely to exploit popular dissatisfaction with Communism and Yugoslavia, as well as fear of emerging Serb nationalism, was Croatian Democratic Union under Franjo Tuđman. Coalition finished third and won only a handful of seats.\n\nA few months later, in autumn 1990, Tripalo and Dabčević-Kučar finally initiated creation of their own party that would later become Croatian People's Party.\n\nIn the next few years, Tripalo, always in the shadow of more charismatic and more popular Dabčević-Kučar, began to distance himself from his long-term political partner. This became apparent after 1992 and Dabčević-Kučar's failure at parliamentary and presidential elections, events that coincided with the rise of hardline nationalist faction within HDZ. Tripalo, unlike Dabčević-Kučar, was increasingly troubled by the prospect of Croatia shifting to the far right and even more by the prospects of HNS not being opposed to certain tendencies associated with far right. In 1994 he left HNS and joined newly formed left-wing party called Social Democratic Action of Croatia (ASH). The party failed to make much of an impact on 1995 parliamentary elections.\n\nTripalo, faced with deteriorating health, died a few years later.\n\n"}
{"id": "2063181", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2063181", "title": "Potatuck", "text": "Potatuck\n\nThe Potatuck tribe (also Pohtatuck, Pootatuck) were a Native American tribe that was a subgroup of the Paugussett Nation, historically located during and prior to the colonial era in western Connecticut, United States. They lived in what is present-day Newtown, Woodbury and Southbury of Fairfield County, and along the whole Housatonic River, including the Schaghticoke tribe. After losses due to epidemics and warfare, they merged in the early eighteenth century with other remnant Native American groups in the area, forming the Schaghticoke tribe. Its descendants are recognized as a tribe by the state of Connecticut.\n\nThe Golden Hill Paugussett Indian Nation, made up of Paugussett descendants in Bridgeport, is also one of the five tribes recognized by the state in the 21st century.\n\nLike the other Paugussett bands or sub-tribes, the Potatuck were a farming and fishing culture. The women cultivated varieties of their staple crops, corn, squash, and beans, as well as the tobacco valued for ritual use. They also gathered berries, nuts and other natural resources. The men fished in freshwater much of the year, and hunted deer and small game. They may have traveled to the coast of Long Island Sound to fish from saltwater in summer months.\n\nMany of the remnant Potatuck amalgamated with survivors of the Weantinock, Mohegan and other indigenous people, after losses due to epidemics and warfare from European colonization pressures. They formed the Schaghticoke tribe in western Connecticut and eastern New York. The Connecticut colony granted them a 2500-acre reservation in 1736, with territory on both sides of the Housatonic River. Through the nineteenth and early twentieth centuries, state-appointed agents sold off essentially all the land to the east, reducing the reservation to about 400 acres of territory on the west bank of the river.\n\nThe descendants known as the Schaghticoke Tribal Nation gained federal recognition in 2004, but it was revoked the following year after a state appeal and further Bureau of Indian Affairs review. In 2011, the Schaghticoke Tribal Nation was recognized by a state court as the governing authority and legitimate legal successor to the historic tribe.\n"}
{"id": "2063188", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2063188", "title": "Wawyachtonoc", "text": "Wawyachtonoc\n\nWawyachtonoc (also rendered Wyachtonok, Wawayachtonoc, and Wyaghtonok) were a Algonquian-speaking Native American people indigenous to east central New York and northwest Connecticut.\n\nIn 1687, the Wyachtonok joined the Mohican Confederacy.\n\nThe majority of the Wawyachtonoc were converted to Christianity, beginning in 1740, by Moravian missionaries. During this period Wawyachtonoc populations became concetrated at the Moravian missions at Shekomeko and Schaghticoke.\n\nIn the 1830s the Wawyachtonoc were displaced to modern Wisconsin. Modern Wawyachtonoc are now part of the Stockbridge–Munsee Community and Brothertown Indians of Wisconsin.\n\nThe ethnonym \"Wawyachtonoc\" is often translated as \"eddy people\" or \"people of the curved channel.\"\n\nThe traditional territory of the Wawyachtonoc extended throughout what is now Columbia and Duchess County New York, and Litchfield County, Connecticut.\n\n"}
{"id": "2063194", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2063194", "title": "Queen Elizabeth's Grammar School, Blackburn", "text": "Queen Elizabeth's Grammar School, Blackburn\n\nQueen Elizabeth's Grammar School (QEGS) is a co educational free school in Blackburn, Lancashire, England. Founded in 1509 as a boys' school, it is now a coeducational independent Free School with over 1200 students from ages 4 to 18. Pupils come from a very wide geographical area, from Bolton to the south and to Colne in the east. It consists of an Infant School (Reception to Year 2), Junior School (Years 3 to 6), Senior School (Years 7 to 11) and Sixth Form.\n\nThe headteacher is Mrs Gammon, a former Mathematics teacher at the school. <ref>\n"}
{"id": "2063195", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2063195", "title": "Wisden Cricketers' Almanack Australia", "text": "Wisden Cricketers' Almanack Australia\n\nWisden Cricketers' Almanack Australia (also known as Wisden Australia) was a cricket annual and reference book, the Australian version of \"Wisden Cricketers' Almanack\", generally known as \"Wisden\". The Australian edition's gestation period was lengthy: the first edition appeared in 1998, when the Preface referred to a March 1981 report in \"The Australian\" announcing the imminent appearance of the Australian edition.\n\n\"Wisden Australia\" was published by Hardie Grant Publishing of Melbourne, at or near the beginning of the Australian season, in November or early December. In contrast to the yellow cover of the parent publication \"Wisden Cricketers' Almanack\", its cover was predominantly bright green. The last two editions published, those of 2004-05 and 2005–06, emulated the parent by featuring dustjackets with photographs.\n\nThe Australian edition was also somewhat slimmer and cheaper, as there were fewer games to report on in Australia; in most other respects the format and content of the Australian edition were similar to those of the English version. One difference was that the former's coverage of first grade cricket in each state and territory was more comprehensive than the latter's relatively sketchy coverage of top level English club and league cricket.\n\nThe first two editions, dated 1998 and 1999, covered the 1997–98 and 1998-99 Australian seasons respectively. The numbering changed with the third edition, which adopted the practice of the English almanack by including in its title the date of the season immediately after the season covered. Thus the 2000-01 edition covered the 1999-2000 season, and so on up to the 2005-06 edition, the eighth in the series, published in 2005 which covered the domestic season 2004-05 and the 2005 Ashes tour in England.\n\nNo further edition has been published since 2005. The most comprehensive reviews and records of Australian cricket are now to be found online or in the reports of the various state cricket associations. The website of Cricket Australia, the national body, does not cover grade cricket in any detail.\n\n"}
{"id": "2063203", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2063203", "title": "Asclepiodotus (philosopher)", "text": "Asclepiodotus (philosopher)\n\nAsclepiodotus Tacticus (; fl. 1st century BC), also known as Asclepiodotus, was a Greek writer and philosopher known for his treatise on military tactics. \n\nLittle is known about the life of Asclepiodiotus. He is called “Asclepiodotus the Philosopher” (Ἀσκληπιοδότου φιλοσόφου) in the manuscripts and has been identified with the Asclepiodotus mentioned by Seneca in his \"Naturales quaestiones\". Seneca quotes Asclepiodotus on matters of natural history and also reports that he was a student of Posidonius, who, as mentioned by Aelianus Tacticus, also wrote a treatise on military tactics. If Asclepiodotus was indeed the student of Posidonius, he would likely have been born in the late 2 c. or 1 c. BCE and probably studied in Rhodes, where Posidonius had a school.\n\nAsclepiodotus' only known work is a treatise in twelve chapters on military tactics and theory (Ἀσκληπιοδότου φιλοσόφου τακτικὰ κεφάλαια, or \"Tactics\"). This text was transmitted in the \"Codex Laurentianus\" (Plut.55.4) and eleven other manuscripts dependent on it (see below). Along with the text, the manuscripts transmit figures thought to be copies of diagrams by Asclepiodotus' own hand.\n\nThe \"Tactics\" was a theoretical text that seems to have served no practical use, following a general trend in Hellenistic and Roman texts on warfare, both scientific and tactical. Poznanski, however, stresses the practical, non-theoretical nature of the work, which, among other things, is irreplaceable for our knowledge of the vocabulary on the phalanx and other military terminology of the Hellenistic period.\n\nThe treatise focuses on the phalanx, its divisions, and its position, and discusses other topics, such as peltasts and cavalry. Some aspects of warfare discussed in the treatise, such as battle chariots and elephants, were no longer in use in the first century BCE, suggesting that either he used earlier Hellenistic armies as models, or he based his work on an earlier text.\n\nThe style of the text is terse. As Oldfather, \"et al.\" describe, \"little effort is made to vary the almost inevitable monotony of a treatise on such a subject; the sentences are short and stiff, the language unimaginative … the whole is dry, but most orderly.\" Items of historical interest are rare, though occasionally preserved, e.g. that the Thessalian cavalry fought in rhomboid formation.\n\nSome materials in the \"Tactics\" seem to be derived from Polybius, or earlier textbooks. The relationship between Asclepiodotus' treatise on military tactics and Posidonius' treatise on the same subject is unclear. Kai Brodersen argues that Posidonius' text was either directly or indirectly a template for Asclepiodotus' text and also for Aelianus Tacticus' \"On Tactical Arrays of the Greeks\" (Περὶ στρατηγικῶν τάξεων Ἑλληνικῶν) and Arrian's \"Ars tactica (\"Τἐχνη τακτικἠ). Another theory is that Asclepiodotus' treatise was \"the skeleton outline of the lectures delivered by his master [Posidonius].\"\n\nAsclepiodotus' \"Tactics\" was the main source, at least of the extant texts, for Aelian's \"On Tactical Arrays of the Greeks\". However, when Tacticus lists the authors who influenced his work, he does not acknowledge Asclepiodotus. Oldfather. \"et al.\" provide two possible explanations. The first is that Aelian did not want to call attention to the extent of his obligation. The second is that Asclepiodotus merely transmitted the text of Posidonius, whom Aelian does acknowledge.\n\nAsclepiodotus also wrote on natural history, some topics of which are preserved by Seneca in his \"Naturales Quaestiones\". These include earthquakes and volcanic eruptions, the nature of winds, and the character of subterranean water.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2063204", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2063204", "title": "Spellbinders", "text": "Spellbinders\n\nSpellbinders is a comic book published by Marvel Comics, as part of that company's Marvel Next imprint. It was a six-issue limited series written by Mike Carey with art by Mike Perkins. It is part of the Marvel Universe, but the story takes no advantage of the fact.\n\n\"Spellbinders\" is set around John Hawthorne High School, a fictional high school in Salem, Massachusetts, where magic is accepted as a fact. There are rivalries between magical students ('wicks') and non-magical students ('blanks'), and between the various covens.\n\nThe story centers around Kim Vesco, a girl from Chicago who has strange dreams and an interest in sculpture.\n\nIn the first issue Kim and her family move to Salem. On her first day she meets Chad Barrow, her neighbor, who tells her she'll be fine in school, provided she isn't a nerd or a 'wick'. Her first day at school is rough, she is attacked by an air elemental, but is saved by two wicks, Mink and Liza Beth. Later at home, she is attacked by a wall.\n\nAfter the wall attacks her Kim discovers that she can talk to ghosts when she 'spirit walks' and accidentally summons a horde of ghosts. One of the ghosts tells her that she has to wield the Salem covens into a single unit, a 'seven.' Another ghost warns her 'not to go to the pillar'.\n\nAt a science class, the bunsen burners explode and the lab catches fire. Kim saves herself by making a mora poultice which smothers the fire.\n\nChad asks her to go to a party. When he asks her about her parents, she mentions that she is adopted. The Salem witches reason that if Kim is adopted, she may be one of them. On the night of the party, they secretly guard her against all forms of magical attack.\n\nAt the party, the lights go out and someone attacks Kim with a knife. Realising they have not protected Kim against physical attack, the Salem witches rush to the party just in time to see Kim running from a wolf-monster. Renata, a shapeshifter, changes into another wolf creature, and the two fight. But when the thing sees the rest of the witches arriving, it turns into a flock of birds and flies away.\n\nThe Salem witches drag Kim away from the party before the police arrive, and explain the secret history of the witch families of Salem. The witch families are descended from refugees from 'somewhere else.' They came to Salem fleeing the Thief, an occult being and they brought an artifact called the Pillar of Smoke with them. Certain families can work certain kinds of magic. When they offer to take her to the Pillar, Kim declines on the grounds that the ghost told her not to. She goes home, to discover that something trashed her sculpture tools. The final page reveals Chad as the one from the party who tried to kill Kim.\n\nKim finally agrees to go to the Pillar of Smoke and the witches take her to the woods near Salem. There, they lay a magical booby trap, and continue on their way. They meet Apocaledon, the guardian of the pillar. Along the way, Kim realises that witches have been dying in unusual circumstances, where their powers backfired and killed them. Behind them, Chad undoes the booby trap with little or no effort. The group gets to the Pillar, and discovers that Kim is a witch (as she can see the smoke it gives off), but have no idea what her powers are. Suddenly, the wrecked body of Apocaledon falls into the clearing followed by Chad who reveals that he is a new version of the Thief, a witch who can copy the powers of other Salem witches. He explains that mutations within the humans of Salem built up over years of interbreeding with the witches eventually culminated in a new Thief. He then easily defeats the group and destroys the Pillar.\n\nWhen the group wakes up, they find themselves in a washed-out world, where their magics won't work fully. They realise that this must be the 'somewhere else' the Salem witches came from.\n\nKim and Foley, a seer, make contact with a ghost, who tells them to apologise to the Pillar. Kim does so and touches the Pillar. Magical energy shoots out of the remains of the Pillar and Kim and Foley find themselves in a white space where a line of corpses are guarded by flying skeletons.\n\nMeanwhile, the rest of the group encounters the original Thief but escape by pooling their powers and teleporting back to Salem. There Chad has been busy. He has stolen the powers of every witch in town and is now using their powers to bring his girlfriend (the first witch he killed and the ghost who was helping Kim) back to life.\n\nIn the land of the dead Kim and Foley are confronted by the flying skeletons. They tell Kim that she is the Gatekeeper, chosen by the Pillar to guard the way between the lands of the living and dead and mend breaches made by magic. The skeletons attempt to keep Foley with them but Kim convinces them to allow him to leave with her.\n\nBack in Salem, Chad has resurrected his girlfriend and has Kim's friends trapped within one of their own spells. They break free just as Kim and Foley arrive. The whole group then has their final confrontation with Chad. Using her necromancy powers, Kim first frees Chad's girlfriend from a state of paralysis and then lets her die again (the girlfriend hates Chad and does not wish to be with him anymore). Because she is bound to him, Chad dies as well. In the afterlife, Chad is punished by the skeletons for raising the dead and the girlfriend is taken to the next life.\n\nThe group of witches leave the school. Before she leaves, Kim notices a small lizard (the leftover of one of the first witch casualties, a wick boy who died the night Kim was summoned to Salem). She tells it to hold on, as things are starting to work out.\n\n"}
{"id": "2063218", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2063218", "title": "Texas's 13th congressional district", "text": "Texas's 13th congressional district\n\nTexas's 13th congressional district is a congressional district in the U.S. state of Texas that includes most of the Texas Panhandle, parts of Texoma and northeastern parts of North Texas. It winds across the Panhandle into the South Plains, then runs east across the Red River Valley. Covering over , it is the 19th-largest district by area in the nation, the 14th-largest that does not cover an entire state, as well as the second-largest in Texas behind the 23rd congressional district. It covers more land mass than thirteen entire states. The principal cities in the district are Amarillo and Wichita Falls.\n\nThe district has been represented since 1995 in the United States House of Representatives by Republican Mac Thornberry, who is not running for reelection in 2020. Although according to the Cook Partisan Voting Index (CPVI) it is the most Republican district in the country (R+33), it has not always been strongly Republican. As late as 1976, Jimmy Carter won 33 of the 44 counties in the district, getting 60% to 70% of the vote in many of them. While voters in the Panhandle began splitting their tickets as early as the 1940s, Democrats continued to hold most local offices, as well as most of the area's seats in the state legislature, well into the 1990s.\n\nSince Thornberry's ouster of three-term Democrat Bill Sarpalius in 1994, however, a Democrat has only crossed the 30 percent mark in 1996, 1998 and 2000. Republicans now dominate at nearly every level of government; there are almost no elected Democrats left above the county level. In 2012, it was President Barack Obama's lowest percentage of the vote in a congressional district. He received 18.5% of the vote. In 2016, it was Hillary Clinton's second largest margin of defeat in a congressional district after Alabama's 4th congressional district. She received an even lower percentage than President Obama four years prior, gathering 16.9% of the vote compared to Donald Trump's 79.9%.\n\nOften in recent years, the incumbent has either run unopposed or has only a third/fourth party candidate who is opposing them. Generally, the incumbent gets over 70% of the vote, even during years with huge opposition party pickups.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2063219", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2063219", "title": "Kate Voegele", "text": "Kate Voegele\n\nKate Elizabeth Voegele (; born December 8, 1986) is an American singer-songwriter and actress. She made her musical debut in 2003, with the release of her \"The Other Side\" extended play. She performed numerous local live shows to promote the album, and toured with artists such as John Mayer. In 2005, she released her second extended play, \"Louder Than Words\". Both had local success, and helped raise awareness of Voegele as an artist. During this time period, Voegele performed at events such as Farm Aid to promote her music, and began posting her music on popular social media network MySpace. She also won numerous awards and honors for her songwriting abilities.\n\nVoegele officially signed with Interscope Records in 2006, and immediately began working on her official debut album. Her first studio album, \"Don't Look Away\", was released in 2007 to generally positive reviews. The album became her first to chart on the \"Billboard\" 200, and was re-released numerous times since its release. It spawned two singles, one of which charted on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 and the UK Singles Chart. While promoting this album, Voegele began appearing as Mia Catalano in the television series \"One Tree Hill\". This made her acting debut, and helped promote her music. She would remain a recurring cast member for four seasons, lasting until 2011.\n\nVoegele released her second studio album, \"A Fine Mess\" in 2009. The album debuted at number 10 on the \"Billboard\" 200. It spawned one single, \"99 Times\", which became her most successful radio single in the US to date. Numerous promotional singles were released to promote the album, some of which had commercial success. In 2011, Voegele released her third studio album, \"Gravity Happens\". This was her first album to be released through ATO Records. The album debuted and peaking at number 53 on the \"Billboard\" 200. Her fourth studio album, \"Canyonlands\", was released in 2016.\n\nKate Elizabeth Voegele was born in the Cleveland suburb of Bay Village, Ohio on December 8, 1986. Voegele has a younger sister named Courtney. She is of English, French, Irish, Scottish, Italian, and German descent. Voegele was taught to play guitar at age 15. In 2005, Voegele graduated from Bay High School where she was on the dance squad. She attended college at Miami University where she was a member of Kappa Alpha Theta sorority.\n\nVoegele made her musical debut in 2002, while Voegele was only 16 years old, when she recorded and released her debut extended play, \"The Other Side\". The song \"Top of the World\" received local radio airplay, and songs from the album were performed locally by Voegele at numerous venues. That same year, Voegele performed alongside John Mayer and Counting Crows. In 2004, it was revealed that Voegele would be a performer at the 2004 Farm Aid concert, alongside artists such as Willie Nelson and Neil Young. Voegele's songs began being used in popular media as well around this time. Her song \"Only Fooling Myself\" was featured in series' such as \"Clubhouse\" and \"The Ghost Whisperer\". Her song \"It's Only Life\" was featured in the MTV series \"\".\n\nIn 2004, Voegele released her second extended play, \"Louder Than Words\". The extended play, as well as her previous one, helped further draw interest in Voegele as an artist. The album featured songs from her first album, as well as a new song titled \"Better Days\". That same year, Voegele's song \"Only Fooling Myself\" won the Pop category of the 2005 USA Songwriting Contest, the youngest artist ever to win the honor in any category. In 2006, her song \"I Won't Disagree\" was a winner of the New York City Songwriters Circle. Her song \"Only Fooling Myself\" also won praise at the 2006 USA Songwriting Competition at Borders Books & Music in Austin, Texas.\n\nIn 2006, Voegele received a message on popular social media website MySpace from the owner, Tom Anderson. Anderson asked if Voegele was signed, and later asked her to meet him. She later signed with MySpace Records, a branch of Interscope Records. On the event, Voegele stated \"I thought it was a fake message. I mean does Tom really even exist, let alone go on MySpace and send messages to random people? But sure enough, it was totally legitimate, and the next week I was out in LA meeting and showcasing for him. [...] I was so excited because from the start I knew MySpace Records was different than other labels I'd been to. I felt immediately comfortable and I could tell I would be given a lot of artistic freedom there.\"\n\nVoegele began working on her debut album in Fall of 2006, shortly after signing with the label. She released her official debut studio album, \"Don't Look Away\", on May 22, 2007. \"Don't Look Away\" debuted at number 63 on the \"Billboard\" 200, selling 10,000 copies in its first week of release. It went on to sell over 250,000 copies. Her appearance on the series was noted as being a big advancement for Voegele career wise, with Voegele performing numerous songs from her album on the show. The first episode of One Tree Hill featuring Voegele premiered on January 22, 2008.\n\nThe same day that Voegele made her appearance on \"One Tree Hill\", her debut album was re-released featuring a new cover art and three new acoustic songs. In April 2008, Voegele released her official debut single, \"Only Fooling Myself\". The song's music video was released in May 2008, and featured Voegele singing as the background changes to various different locations. The single peaked a #37 on the Hot Adult Top 40 Tracks chart in the US, which is based on radio airplay. In September of the same year, Voegele released her second official single, a cover of the Leonard Cohen song \"Hallelujah\". Voegele's version of the song became her first single to chart on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 chart in the US, where it debuted and peaked at number 68 on the chart. This made it the first time any version of the song had charted on the Hot 100, and remained the only time the song had made the chart until Justin Timberlake and Matt Morris released their version in 2010. The success of the singles also helped boost sales of \"Don't Look Away\". The album eventually climbed the \"Billboard\" 200 to achieve a peak of 27, making it her second highest charting album to date. \"Don't Look Away\" has sold an estimated 237,000 copies as of 2009.\n\nThe success of Voegele's debut album later led to her appearing on numerous compilation albums that year as well. She recorded a cover of the song \"When You Wish Upon a Star\" for the compilation album \"DisneyMania 6\". Her song \"It's Only Life\" was featured on the soundtrack for the ABC Family series \"Kyle XY\". Her song \"Lift Me Up\" was later featured on the \"AT&T Team USA Soundtrack\". Voegele's songs \"Devil in Me\" and \"You Can't Break a Broken Heart\" are featured on the \"Music from One Tree Hill\" soundtrack, released in 2008.\n\nIt was revealed in 2008 that Voegele would be returning for the sixth season of \"One Tree Hill\" that same year. While touring to promote her previous album, she began writing material for her second studio album. While working on her second studio album, Voegele's \"One Tree Hill\" character was also working on her album. Voegele's second studio album, \"A Fine Mess\", was released on May 18, 2009. The album debuted at number 10 on the \"Billboard\" 200, with first week sales of 37,000 copies. This made it the highest first week sales for one of Voegele's albums, and her highest peaking album to date. By September of that same year, the album had sold an estimated 157,000 copies worldwide. One official single, \"99 Times\", was released from the album on April 14, 2009. The single went on to become her most successful single in terms of radio airplay, peaking at number 22 on the Hot Adult Top 40 Tracks chart in the US. This made it her second and highest entry on the chart. It also peaked at number 8 on the Bubbling Under Hot 100 Singles chart. Voegele returned for the seventh season of \"One Tree Hill\" in 2009, making it the third season to feature Voegele's character. Voegele later returned for the eighth season of the series as well, and recorded a version of the show's theme song. She continued to play music on the series throughout her appearance. Voegele did not return for the ninth and final season.\n\nVoegele has confirmed that she is working on her fourth studio album, which she hoped to release in 2013; while she released an EP, \"Wild Card\", in 2014, the full album \"Canyonlands\" was released on October 28, 2016.\n\nShe released a new single on December 8, 2017—on her thirty-first birthday—titled \"Shoot This Arrow\". The song addresses sexual harassment as well as the sexual harassment committed by Mark Schwahn, the creator of popular teen drama television series \"One Tree Hill\".\n\nIn 2019, she collaborated with Tyler Hilton on the song \"When The Night Moves\", which appeared on his album \"City On Fire\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2063238", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2063238", "title": "Loch Duich", "text": "Loch Duich\n\nLoch Duich (Scottish Gaelic: \"Loch Dubhthaich\") is a sea loch situated on the western coast of Scotland, in the Highlands.\n\nIn 1719, British forces burned many homesteads along the loch's shores in the month preceding the Battle of Glen Shiel.\n\nEilean Donan Castle stands at the meeting point of Loch Duich, Loch Long, and Loch Alsh.\n\nA legend connected with Loch Duich states that three brothers who went fishing at the loch one night became enraptured by three seal-maidens who had thrown off their furs, assumed the likeness of humans, and danced in the moonlight on the sands. The brothers stole their furs, intending to claim the seal-maidens as their wives. The youngest brother, however, moved by the seal-girl's distress, returned her seal-skin. For his kindness, the girl's father allowed the youngest brother to visit the maiden every ninth night. As for the other two brothers, the middle brother lost his wife after the seal-maiden he had captured found her stolen fur, while the eldest brother burnt his wife's fur as a preventative measure, only to burn her accidentally in the process.\n\nThe infamous \"McRae film\" connected with the Loch Ness Monster was supposedly shot as a close-up of not only \"Nessie\" in its habitat of Loch Ness, but a second film allegedly shows a similar animal in Loch Duich. Both films are, according to most sources, held in a secret trust, and few people have seen either film. It is still a mystery as to whether the films exist at all, but are accepted by several Loch Ness researchers.\n\nLoch Duich, along with the neighbouring sea lochs of Loch Long and Loch Alsh, was together designated as a Nature Conservation Marine Protected Area (NCMPA) in 2014. The designation is in place to protect the lochs' burrowed mud and their flame shell beds.\n\n"}
{"id": "2063244", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2063244", "title": "Science for Peace", "text": "Science for Peace\n\nScience for Peace is organization of scientists, engineers, social scientists and scholars working together to promote peace worldwide. It was co-founded by mathematical psychologist Anatol Rapoport, and physicist Eric Fawcett, both former professors at the University of Toronto. It is based in Toronto, Ontario. Some of the activities undertaken include lectures, workshops, administering the Franz Blumenfeld Peace Education Fund, and hosting the biannual Eric Fawcett Memorial Forum.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2063246", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2063246", "title": "Hermias (apologist)", "text": "Hermias (apologist)\n\nHermias (; sometimes Hermias Philosophus or Hermias the Philosopher; ) was an obscure Christian apologist, presumed to have lived in 3rd century. Nothing is known of him, except his name. He wrote a \"Derision of gentile philosophers\" (\"Diasyrmos ton Exo Philosophon\"), a short parody on Greek philosophical themes (the nature of the body, the soul, the world). From Paul's statement in the First Epistle to the Corinthians that \"all worldly knowledge is foolishness to God\" he affirms that all philosophical doctrines come from the apostasy of the angels and therefore wrong and laughable. Hermias relies rather on cynical and skeptical culture critique and on philosophical biographies and anedoctes than in their real writings if he had ever read them.\n\n"}
{"id": "2063248", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2063248", "title": "Foreign Correspondents' Club of Japan", "text": "Foreign Correspondents' Club of Japan\n\nThe Foreign Correspondents' Club of Japan (FCCJ) was started in 1945 to provide infrastructure for foreign journalists working in Post-World War II Japan. Historically, the club has been located in the area around Ginza. \n\nToday, the club offers a workroom facility, a library, a restaurant, a bar, and a steady stream of local and international speakers and panels, for its members. Its facilities are housed on the 19th and 20th floors of the Yurakucho Denki North Building in Yūrakuchō.\n\nFCCJ publishes the monthly \"No. 1 Shimbun\".\n\nPast presidents include legendary war correspondent John Rich, leading \"China watcher\" John Roderick, later editor of the \"Chicago Sun-Times\" Frank Devine, 1951 Pulitzer Prize winner Max Desfor, and Burton Crane, also well known as a singer for Columbia Records, singing Japanese-language versions of popular Westerns songs of the day, becoming known as the \"Bing Crosby of Japan\".\n\nClub membership is around 2,000, with over 300 foreign correspondents (and their Japanese counterparts) as well as over 200 professional associates, mostly working for local media. Associate members number around 1,500 and include entrepreneurs, business executives, other professionals as well as authors and artists. \n\nThe FCCJ is not a member of the International Association of Press Clubs but has reciprocal agreements with a number of Foreign Correspondents' Clubs in Asia and North America:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2063256", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2063256", "title": "Wiccan Laws", "text": "Wiccan Laws\n\nThe Wiccan Laws, also called the Craft Laws, the Old Laws, the Ardanes (or Ordains) or simply The Laws are, according to claims made by Gerald Gardner in the 1950s, ancient laws governing the practice of Covens, passed from initiate to initiate as part of the Book of Shadows.\n\nThe laws were first revealed by Gardner to other members of the Craft in 1957, after a disagreement arose over Gardner's continued interviews with the media despite his own rules of secrecy. The laws were originally unnumbered, and used the spelling \"wica\", rather than \"Wicca\" or \"Wiccan\".\n\nThe Laws contain correctly used archaic language. However, they mix modern and archaic phrases. The Laws do not appear in earlier known Wiccan documents, including Gardner's \"Ye bok of Ye Art Magical\", Text A or B, or in any of Doreen Valiente’s notebooks including one commonly referred to as Text C. The Laws have several anachronisms and refer to the threat of being burnt for witchcraft even though this did not happen in England or Wales, where witches were hanged during the witch hunts. Parts also seemed suspiciously similar to extracts from Gardner's books. If Gardner did forge the Laws, this would have implications for earlier aspects of Wiccan history. The Laws nevertheless became a standard part of the Gardnerian Book of Shadows.\n\nTo Gardner's original 30 Laws Alexandrian Wicca added another 130. This much larger set of Laws was first published in \"King of the Witches\" by June Johns in 1969, and later, in slightly altered form, in both \"The Book of Shadows\" (1971) and \"The Grimoire of Lady Sheba\" (1972) by Lady Sheba (Jessie Wicker Bell). In these two books, Bell also published the bulk of the Wiccan \"Book of Shadows\", introducing to the general public for the first time the possibility of practicing Wiccan-style ritual. The Laws are sometimes known as \"Lady Sheba's Laws\" or \"161 Rules of the Witch\" (her title for them).\n\nIn 1979 a Council of Elders at a festival in America produced a set of heavily revised Laws which made them more acceptable to modern Wiccans.\n\n"}
{"id": "2063265", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2063265", "title": "Horace DeVauhan", "text": "Horace DeVauhan\n\nHorace DeVaughan (died April 8, 1927), of Birmingham, Alabama, was the first prison inmate in Alabama to be executed by the Alabama electric chair, nicknamed \"Yellow Mama\" because it was painted with bright yellow highway paint. DeVaughan was electrocuted on April 8, 1927.\n\nThe murder case for which DeVaughan was executed was solved by Birmingham Police Detective Paul Cole, who traced the shells found at the scene, which had a unique marking from a defective shotgun. After he was arrested, DeVaughan confessed to the murders and was sentenced to death.\nDeVaughan was put to death at Kilby Prison in an electric chair built for the purpose earlier that year. He prayed to Jesus for hours beforehand, and accepted no food, drink or cigarettes on the night of the execution. In his final statement he expressed that he had been forgiven and had no hard feelings toward anyone, and asked for someone to tell his mother goodbye and that his soul was saved.\nDeVaughan underwent three 2,000 volt discharges between 12:31 and 12:42 AM. At the first 40-second jolt his body surged forward, a thin gray smoke flowed from under the electrode over his head, and the odor of burning flesh was apparent. After the second discharge, flames were seen on his leg, but he was still alive. After the third jolt, he was pronounced dead. Twenty were present as witnesses, included Moore's brother, George, who traveled from Coffeyville, Kansas and claimed a piece of DaVaughn's belt as a souvenir of his visit.\n\n"}
{"id": "2063274", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2063274", "title": "Texas's 14th congressional district", "text": "Texas's 14th congressional district\n\nTexas's 14th congressional district for the United States House of Representatives stretches from Freeport to Beaumont. It formerly covered the area south and southwest of the Greater Houston region, including Galveston, in the state of Texas.\n\nThe district was created as a result of the 1900 U.S. Census and was first contested in 1902. The Galveston area had previously been included in Texas' 10th congressional district. Its first representative was the Democrat James L. Slayden, based in San Antonio, who had served the 12th congressional district since 1897 and was redistricted. He was elected from the new district and began representing the 14th in March 1903 as a member of the 58th United States Congress. He was repeatedly re-elected and served until 1919. He refused nomination in 1918.\n\nRepublican Harry M. Wurzbach carried this district in several elections, from 1920 to 1926, serving from 1921 to 1929. He successfully contested the election of 1928, taking his seat in 1930 for the remainder of the term, and was re-elected in 1930. The district during that era included the aberrant counties of Gillespie, Kendall, Comal and Guadalupe, whose German Americans had historically opposed slavery and became Texas' only consistent Republican Party voters during the \"Solid South\" era. In addition, Galveston was a major port of entry for immigrants, with many arriving from southern and eastern Europe. At that time, many found the Republican Party more welcoming than the dominant Democratic Party. In 1901, the Democratic-dominated legislature had passed a poll tax, which effectively had disfranchised most blacks and many poor whites and Latinos.\n\nThe district's ultimate shift to the Republican Party in the 1980s has been attributed to the coattail effect of Ronald Reagan's electoral successes. A few Democrats have won local and state elections in the 1990s. Former Republican and Libertarian Presidential candidate Ron Paul held congressional office from 1997 to 2013. The district's current representative is the Republican Randy Weber.\n\nThe incumbent Harry M. Wurzbach successfully contested the 1928 election of the Democrat Augustus McCloskey to the 71st United States Congress, and was finally seated on February 10, 1930.\n\nIn \"one of the stranger Congressional elections of modern times\", the incumbent Greg Laughlin switched from the Democratic Party to the Republican in 1995. The Republican National Committee, hoping to encourage other Democrats to switch parties, threw its full support behind Laughlin. He had support from Republican leaders, including House Speaker Newt Gingrich and Texas Governor George W. Bush, and the National Rifle Association and other interest groups. Ron Paul, an ob/gyn and former U.S. Representative from Texas's 22nd congressional district, opposed Laughlin. Paul hoped to have more influence in Congress after the Republicans took over both houses in the 1994 election. Though Laughlin defeated Paul in the open primary, a runoff between the two candidates followed.\n\nWhile Gingrich and other Republican leaders visited the district stumping for Laughlin, Paul ran newspaper ads quoting Gingrich's harsh criticisms of Laughlin's voting record 14 months earlier, before the party switch. Paul won the low-turnout primary runoff with the assistance of a largely out-of-state free-market network of support, such as his Foundation for Rational Economics and Education and other market-oriented organizations. Though he continued to maintain his home in Lake Jackson, Texas, Paul had run for the coastal 14th Congressional district rather than the 22nd district he had previously represented, due to redistricting borders.\n\nCharles \"Lefty\" Morris, a trial lawyer, was Paul's Democratic opponent in the fall election; he was strongly supported by the AFL-CIO and ran numerous attack ads. Morris cited Paul's past votes to repeal federal drug laws in favor of state legislation, and also ran numerous ads about newsletters which had contained derogatory comments published in Paul's name concerning race and other politicians. Paul's campaign responded at the time that voters might not understand the \"tongue-in-cheek, academic\" quotes out of context, and rejected Morris's demand to release back issues.\n\nPaul's large contributor base outraised Morris two-to-one, giving him nearly $2 million, the third-highest amount of individual contributions received by any House member (behind Gingrich and Bob Dornan). In his campaign, Paul characterized Morris as a tool of trial lawyers and big labor.\n\nPaul won the election by a close margin of 51% to 48%, the third time he had been elected to Congress as a non-incumbent.\n\nIn 1998 Paul again won the Republican primary. The Democratic primary candidates included education professor Margaret Dunn; former congressional aide Roger Elliott; car dealer Tom Reed; and Bay City rice farmer and cattle rancher Loy Sneary. Reed, who claimed to be the only Texas-born candidate in the race, had served in local economic development projects and had been appointed to the White House Conference on Small Business; he was endorsed by the AFL-CIO. Sneary, a self-described \"conservative Democrat\" and also a former Matagorda County judge, prevailed in the primary; by December 31, 1997, including self-loans, Sneary had outraised Reed by $175,000 to $33,000.\n\nThe Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee made the general election its \"No. 1 challenge race in the state of Texas\". The Texas Farm Bureau endorsed Sneary and ranked Paul's agricultural record poorly. Sneary also said that Paul's anti-government stance left constituents inadequately represented. Paul ran ads warning voters to be \"leery of Sneary\". Paul accused Sneary of voting to raise his pay by 5%, increasing his judge's travel budget by 400% in one year, and creating more government bureaucracy by starting a new government agency to handle a license plate fee he enacted. Sneary considered Paul's attack to consist of \"half-truths and no truths\", claims supported by Austin TV station KVUE; his aides replied that he had actually voted to raise all county employees' pay by 5% in a \"cost of living\" increase. Paul countered that he had never voted to raise Congressional pay.\n\nPaul won the election 55% to 44%, outraising his opponent by a large margin ($2.1 million to $0.7 million).\n\nIn 2000, Sneary ran against Paul again, with Paul winning 60% to 40% and raising $2.4 million to Sneary's $1.1 million. As in the prior two elections, the national Democratic Party and major unions had continued targeting Paul with heavy spending.\n\nPaul was re-elected to Congress in 2002. Two Democrats without political experience ran for the primary, but not much support from the Democratic Party was visible. Local Democratic consultant Ed Martin criticized Paul's frequent budget dissents as \"180 degrees opposite from\" his campaign promises to protect Social Security. Paul's free-market foundation and network of support continued its fundraising strength.\n\nPaul was re-elected to Congress in 2004 (running unopposed).\n\nIn 2006, Paul was opposed in the primary race by Cynthia Sinatra, the ex-wife of Frank Sinatra Jr., son of the legendary singer. Paul won the primary handily with nearly 80%, though his opponent campaigned on Paul's lack of support for President George W. Bush. Paul then won the general election by 20%, entering his tenth term and outraising Shane Sklar $1.2 million to $0.6 million.\n\nIn March 2007, Paul announced his candidacy for U.S. president. According to Texas law, Paul could run for president without having to relinquish his Congressional seat. In the 2008 primary, he was opposed by Chris Peden, who informally announced his challenge on May 22, 2007. Peden, a certified public accountant, was elected to the Friendswood city council in 2005 with 67%, and was chosen as mayor pro tem.\n\nThe \"Victoria Advocate\" and \"Galveston County Daily News\" both endorsed Peden. Paul had a larger national source of funding, while Peden raised more money from the district, the majority of which came from within his own family or loans to himself. Paul won 70% to 30%.\n\nOn November 4, 2008, Paul was reelected. The election was uncontested because the Democrats did not run a candidate.\n\nOn March 2, Ron Paul won the Republican Party nomination for re-election to the US House. Robert Pruett and Winston Cochran from the Democratic Party faced a runoff election in April to determine which one will get the nomination, as neither received a majority. Pruett won the run off election with just 52% of the vote, and lost to Paul in the general election.\n\nOn July 11, 2011, Ron Paul announced that he would not seek re-election to the US House. Randy Weber and Felicia Harris from the Republican Party faced a runoff election in July to determine which one would get the nomination, as neither received a majority. Weber won the run off election with 63% of the vote, and went on to win the general election against Democrat Nick Lampson.\n\n"}
{"id": "2063278", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2063278", "title": "Object-relational impedance mismatch", "text": "Object-relational impedance mismatch\n\nThe object-relational impedance mismatch is a set of conceptual and technical difficulties that are often encountered when a relational database management system (RDBMS) is being served by an application program (or multiple application programs) written in an object-oriented programming language or style, particularly because objects or class definitions must be mapped to database tables defined by a relational schema.\n\nThe term \"object-relational impedance mismatch\" is derived from the electrical engineering term \"impedance matching\".\n\nObjects (instances) reference one another and therefore form a graph in the mathematical sense (a network including loops and cycles). Relational schemas are, in contrast, tabular and based on relational algebra, which defines linked heterogeneous tuples (groupings of data fields into a \"row\" with different types for each field).\n\nObject-oriented programs are well designed with techniques that result in encapsulated objects whose internal representation can be hidden. In an object-oriented framework, the underlying properties of a given object are expected not to be exposed to any interface outside of the one implemented alongside the object. However, object-relational mapping necessarily exposes the underlying content of an object to interact with an interface that the object implementation cannot specify. Hence, object-relational mapping violates the encapsulation of the object, since many object-relational mappers automatically generate public fields corresponding to database columns.\n\nIn relational thinking, \"private\" versus \"public\" access is relative to need. In the object-oriented (OO) model it is an absolute characteristic of the data's state. The relational and OO models often have conflicts over relativity versus absolutism of classifications and characteristics.\n\nUnder an object-oriented paradigm, objects have interfaces that together provide the only access to the internals of that object. The relational model, on the other hand, utilizes derived relation variables (views) to provide varying perspectives and constraints to ensure integrity. Similarly, essential OOP concepts for classes of objects, inheritance and polymorphism, are not supported by relational database systems.\n\nA proper mapping between relational concepts and object-oriented concepts can be made if relational database tables are linked to associations found in object-oriented analysis.\n\nA major mismatch between existing relational and OO languages is the type system differences. The relational model strictly prohibits by-reference attributes (or pointers), whereas OO languages embrace and expect by-reference behavior. Scalar types and their operator semantics can be vastly different between the models, causing problems in mapping.\n\nFor example, most SQL systems support string types with varying collations and constrained maximum lengths (open-ended text types tend to hinder performance), while most OO languages consider collation only as an argument to sort routines and strings are intrinsically sized to available memory. A more subtle, but related example is that SQL systems often ignore trailing white space in a string for the purposes of comparison, whereas OO string libraries do not. It is typically not possible to construct new data types as a matter of constraining the possible values of other primitive types in an OO language.\n\nAnother mismatch has to do with the differences in the structural and integrity aspects of the contrasted models. In OO languages, objects can be composed of other objects—often to a high degree—or specialize from a more general definition. This may make the mapping to relational schemas less straightforward. This is because relational data tends to be represented in a named set of global, unnested relation variables. Relations themselves, being sets of tuples all conforming to the same header (see \"tuple relational calculus\") do not have an ideal counterpart in OO languages. Constraints in OO languages are generally not declared as such, but are manifested as exception raising protection logic surrounding code that operates on encapsulated internal data. The relational model, on the other hand, calls for declarative constraints on scalar types, attributes, relation variables, and the database as a whole.\n\nThe semantic differences are especially apparent in the manipulative aspects of the contrasted models, however. The relational model has an intrinsic, relatively small and well-defined set of primitive operators for usage in the query and manipulation of data, whereas OO languages generally handle query and manipulation through custom-built or lower-level, case- and physical-access-path-specific imperative operations. Some OO languages do have support for declarative query sublanguages, but because OO languages typically deal with lists and perhaps hash tables, the manipulative primitives are necessarily distinct from the set-based operations of the relational model.\n\nThe concurrency and transaction aspects are significantly different also. In particular, transactions, the smallest unit of work performed by databases, are much larger in relational databases than are any operations performed by classes in OO languages. Transactions in relational databases are dynamically bounded sets of arbitrary data manipulations, whereas the granularity of transactions in an OO language is typically on the level of individual assignments to primitive-typed fields. In general, OO languages have no analogue of isolation or durability, so atomicity and consistency are only ensured when writing to fields of those primitive types.\n\nWorking around the impedance mismatch problem for object-oriented programs starts with recognition of the differences in the specific logic systems being employed. The mismatch is then either minimized or compensated for.\n\nThe Object-relational impedance mismatch problem is not a universal problem between OO and databases. As the name suggests, this impedance problem only occurs with relational databases. The most common solution to this problem is to use an alternative database, such as NoSQL or XML database.\n\nThere have been some attempts at building object-oriented database management systems (OODBMS) that would avoid the impedance mismatch problem. They have been less successful in practice than relational databases however, partly due to the limitations of OO principles as a basis for a data model. There has been research performed in extending the database-like capabilities of OO languages through such notions as transactional memory.\n\nOne common solution to the impedance mismatch problem is to layer the domain and framework logic. In this scheme, the OO language is used to model certain relational aspects at runtime rather than attempt the more static mapping. Frameworks which employ this method will typically have an analogue for a tuple, usually as a \"row\" in a \"dataset\" component or as a generic \"entity instance\" class, as well as an analogue for a relation. Advantages of this approach may include:\nDisadvantages may include:\n\nThe mixing of levels of discourse within OO application code presents problems, but there are some common mechanisms used to compensate. The biggest challenge is to provide framework support, automation of data manipulation and presentation patterns, within the level of discourse in which the domain data is being modelled. To address this, reflection and/or code generation are utilized. Reflection allows code (classes) to be addressed as data and thus provide automation of the transport, presentation, integrity, etc. of the data. Generation addresses the problem through addressing the entity structures as data inputs for code generation tools or meta-programming languages, which produce the classes and supporting infrastructure en masse. Both of these schemes may still be subject to certain anomalies where these levels of discourse merge. For instance, generated entity classes will typically have properties which map to the domain (e. g. Name, Address) as well as properties which provide state management and other framework infrastructure (e. g. IsModified).\n\nIt has been argued, by Christopher J. Date and others, that a truly relational DBMS would pose no such problem, as domains and classes are essentially one and the same thing. A native mapping between classes and relational schemata is a fundamental design mistake ; and that individual tuples within a database table (relation) ought to be viewed as establishing relationships between entities; not as representations for complex entities themselves. However, this view tends to diminish the influence and role of object-oriented programming, using it as little more than a field type management system.\n\nThe impedance mismatch is in programming between the domain objects and the user interface. Sophisticated user interfaces, to allow operators, managers, and other non-programmers to access and manipulate the records in the database, often require intimate knowledge about the nature of the various database attributes (beyond name and type). In particular, it's considered a good practice (from an end-user productivity point of view) to design user interfaces such that the UI prevents illegal transactions (those which cause a database constraint to be violated) from being entered; to do so requires much of the logic present in the relational schemata to be duplicated in the code.\n\nCertain code-development frameworks can leverage certain forms of logic that are represented in the database's schema (such as referential integrity constraints), so that such issues are handled in a generic and standard fashion through library routines rather than ad hoc code written on a case-by-case basis.\n\nIt has been argued that SQL, due to a very limited set of domain types (and other alleged flaws) makes proper object and domain-modelling difficult; and that SQL constitutes a very lossy and inefficient interface between a DBMS and an application program (whether written in an object-oriented style or not). However, SQL is currently the only widely accepted common database language in the marketplace; use of vendor-specific query languages is seen as a bad practice when avoidable. Other database languages such as Business System 12 and Tutorial D have been proposed; but none of these has been widely adopted by DBMS vendors.\n\nIn current versions of mainstream \"object-relational\" DBMSs like Oracle and Microsoft SQL Server, the above point may be a non-issue. With these engines, the functionality of a given database can be arbitrarily extended through stored code (functions and procedures) written in a modern OO language (Java for Oracle, and a Microsoft .NET language for SQL Server), and these functions can be invoked in-turn in SQL statements in a transparent fashion: that is, the user neither knows nor cares that these functions/procedures were not originally part of the database engine. Modern software-development paradigms are fully supported: thus, one can create a set of library routines that can be re-used across multiple database schemas.\n\nThese vendors decided to support OO-language integration at the DBMS back-end because they realized that, despite the attempts of the ISO SQL-99 committee to add procedural constructs to SQL, SQL will never have the rich set of libraries and data structures that today's application programmers take for granted, and it is reasonable to leverage these as directly as possible rather than attempting to extend the core SQL language. Consequently, the difference between \"application programming\" and \"database administration\" is now blurred: robust implementation of features such as constraints and triggers may often require an individual with dual DBA/OO-programming skills, or a partnership between individuals who combine these skills. This fact also bears on the \"division of responsibility\" issue below.\n\nSome, however, would point out that this contention is moot due to the fact that: (1) RDBMSes were never intended to facilitate object modelling, and (2) SQL generally should only be seen as a \"lossy\" or \"inefficient\" interface language when one is trying to achieve a solution for which RDBMSes were not designed. SQL is very efficient at doing what it was designed to do, namely, to query, sort, filter, and store large sets of data. Some would additionally point out that the inclusion of OO language functionality in the back-end simply facilitates bad architectural practice, as it admits high-level application logic into the data tier, antithetical to the RDBMS.\n\nHere the \"canonical\" copy of state is located. The database model generally assumes that the database management system is the only authoritative repository of state concerning the enterprise; any copies of such state held by an application program are just that — temporary copies (which may be out of date, if the underlying database record was subsequently modified by a transaction). Many object-oriented programmers prefer to view the in-memory representations of objects themselves as the canonical data, and view the database as a backing store and persistence mechanism.\n\nAnother point of contention is the proper division of responsibility between application programmers and database administrators (DBA). It is often the case that needed changes to application code (in order to implement a requested new feature or functionality) require corresponding changes in the database definition; in most organizations, the database definition is the responsibility of the DBA. Due to the need to maintain a production database system 24 hours a day many DBAs are reluctant to make changes to database schemata that they deem gratuitous or superfluous and in some cases outright refuse to do so. Use of developmental databases (apart from production systems) can help somewhat; but when the newly developed application \"goes live\" the DBA will need to approve any changes. Some programmers view this as intransigence; however the DBA is frequently held responsible if any changes to the database definition cause a loss of service in a production system—as a result, many DBAs prefer to contain design changes to application code, where design defects are far less likely to have catastrophic consequences.\n\nIn organizations with a non-dysfunctional relationship between DBAs and developers, though, the above issue should not present itself, as the decision to change a database schema or not would only be driven by business needs: a new requirement to persist additional data or a performance boost of a critical application would both trigger a schema modification, for example.\n\nKey philosophical differences between the OO and relational models can be summarized as follows:\n\nAs a result of the object-relational impedance mismatch, it is often argued by partisans on both sides of the debate that the other technology ought to be abandoned or reduced in scope. Some database advocates view traditional \"procedural\" languages as more compatible with an RDBMS than many OO languages; or suggest that a less OO style ought to be used. (In particular, it is argued that long-lived domain objects in application code ought not to exist; any such objects that do exist should be created when a query is made and disposed of when a transaction or task is complete). Conversely, some OO advocates argue that more OO-friendly persistence mechanisms, such as OODBMS, ought to be developed and used, and that relational technology ought to be phased out. Many (if not most) programmers and DBAs hold neither of these viewpoints; and view the object-relational impedance mismatch as a mere fact of life that information technology has to deal with.\n\nIt is also argued that the O/R mapping is paying off in some situations, but is probably oversold: it has advantages besides drawbacks. Skeptics point out that it is worth to think carefully before using it, as it will add little value in some cases.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2063308", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2063308", "title": "Beauchamp College", "text": "Beauchamp College\n\nThe Beauchamp College ( ) is an upper school and further education community college, in Oadby, a town on the outskirts of Leicester, England. It is situated on the southern edge of the built-up area of Oadby on the same campus as Gartree High School and Brocks Hill Primary School.\n\nIt is the only Oadby school to offer a pathway of 11-19, with students joining in Year 7 and progressing through to GCSE and then Level 3 courses at KS5. It was rated top state secondary in the Leicester Mercury Real Schools Guide in 2017.\n\nThe school dates back to the mid-15th century when it was Kibworth Grammar School. It was founded by Francis Edwards who owned the manor of Welham and whose daughter was the richest woman in England.\n\nIt thus became a comprehensive Upper School for pupils aged 14 to 18, although the last pupils to have gained entry at Kibworth via the 11-plus examination did not leave until 1968. It then became fully comprehensive, serving Oadby as its main catchment area, as well as drawing from villages up to away.\n\nThe school converted to academy status on 1 May 2013.\n\nBeauchamp College is the largest school in the Lionheart Academies Trust. The school was named in July 2019 as a computing hub for the National Centre for Computing Education.\n\nBeauchamp is also a Community College, with over 2,500 part-time students taking part in a variety of recreational, cultural and academic evening classes. Many extra curricular activities are also held on a weekly basis such as Young Enterprise, Drama and sports clubs, (primarily Tennis and Football).\n\nOn 1 April 1996, Beauchamp gained the status of Technology College. It received sponsorship of over £122,000 from The Garfield Weston Foundation, Lloyds Bank, Alliance & Leicester, Midland Bank, Psion, and Sainsbury's. The college also receives a maintenance grant of around £220,000 from the DCSF. This additional funding has allowed for a number of refurbishments and new buildings at the College including a design facility, that includes an exhibition centre. Other recently completed projects include an Adult Learning Centre which provides rooms and conference rooms for hire; and an Applied Learning Centre which includes a beauty salon, performing arts studio and dance studio (all for vocational courses), as well as space for quiet study.\n\nThe sports centre was completed in 2006.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2063309", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2063309", "title": "GHC Heavyweight Championship", "text": "GHC Heavyweight Championship\n\nThe Global Honored Crown (GHC) Heavyweight Championship is the professional wrestling world heavyweight championship in Japanese promotion Pro Wrestling Noah. The title was also defended on Impact Wrestling which has a working relationship with Pro Wrestling Noah. It was created on April 15, 2001 when Mitsuharu Misawa defeated Yoshihiro Takayama in a 16-man tournament final. Though its name implies a particular weight class, it has been periodically held by junior heavyweights, including Yoshinari Ogawa, Kenta, Naomichi Marufuji, Katsuhiko Nakajima and Kenoh. There have been a total of 18 recognized champions, who have had a combined 33 official reigns.\n\nNoah held a 16-man tournament to crown the first champion, held over its month-long, 18-event \"Navigation for the Victory GHC\" tour. The tour was held from March 18 through April 15, 2001.\n\n† Akiyama and Misawa were both counted out, but the match was restarted.\n\nAs of 17, 2020.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2063312", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2063312", "title": "Thomas Howard, 1st Earl of Berkshire", "text": "Thomas Howard, 1st Earl of Berkshire\n\nThomas Howard, 1st Earl of Berkshire (8 October 1587 – 16 July 1669) was an English politician who sat in the House of Commons between 1605 and 1622. He was created Earl of Berkshire in 1626.\n\nHoward was born in Saffron Walden, Essex, the second son of Thomas Howard, 1st Earl of Suffolk and his wife Catherine Knyvet. He was educated at Magdalene College, Cambridge. He was knighted in 1604. In 1605 he was elected Member of Parliament for Lancaster in a by-election. He was elected MP for Wiltshire in 1614. In 1621 he was elected MP for Cricklade. In 1621 he was created Baron Howard of Charlton, Wiltshire and on 7 February 1626 he was created Earl of Berkshire. He inherited the Charlton Park estate in Wiltshire from his mother.\n\nDuring the English Civil War he was a Royalist, but after the defeat of the Royalist cause Parliament left him in peace. Edward Hyde, 1st Earl of Clarendon, who despised Berkshire, said that this was because he had no reputation and no understanding of public affairs, and so could do Parliament's cause no harm. After the Restoration of Charles II he was made a Gentleman of the Bedchamber.\n\nHoward married Elizabeth Cecil, daughter and co-heir of William Cecil, 2nd Earl of Exeter in 1614. They had thirteen children:\n"}
{"id": "2063313", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2063313", "title": "Euro disco", "text": "Euro disco\n\nEuro disco (or Eurodisco) is the variety of European forms of electronic dance music that evolved from disco in the later 1970s; incorporating elements of pop and rock into a disco-like continuous dance atmosphere. Many Euro disco compositions feature lyrics sung in English, although the singers often share a different mother tongue.\n\nEuro disco derivatives generally include Europop and Eurodance, with the most prominent subgenres being space disco of the late 1970s and Italo disco of the early 1980s. The genre has declined in popularity after 1985 in preference to electronic rock and Hi-NRG, with a small revival of Italo disco in at least the late 1990s.\n\nEuro disco is largely an offshoot of contemporary American music trends going far back to the early times of jazz, rock, soul, funk and disco. In the 1950s and 1960s, besides the big American influence, the French/Italian-created pop music offshoots with a dance-oriented sound, became prevalent in Europe. 1950s and 1960s Europop hits spread around France, Italy and Germany, because of the French Scopitone and the Italian Cinebox/Coilorama Video-jukebox machines. Another root is the Eurovision song contest, especially in the 1970s.\n\nThe song \"Waterloo\" by Swedish pop group ABBA, which won the 1974 Eurovision song contest, is a typical example of a 1970s European pop/disco song (Europop), with a dance manner. The success was huge and many European producers instantly produced many pop hits that did not necessary sound the same, but kept that dance manner. With that created, in a very short period of time, a whole new commercial music industry in Europe was met in the demand for social dancing music. The discofox dancing style was a result of this.\nThe American music journalist Robert Christgau used the term \"Euro disco\" in his late 1970s articles for \"The Village Voice\" newspaper.\n\nThe term \"disco\" in Europe existed long before the Euro disco and U.S. disco music styles but had a different meaning. It was used in Europe during the 1960s as a short alternative to \"discotheque\". The first dance music venues called discotheques emerged in Occupied France in the 1940s. Starting in Germany, the first discotheques featuring disc jockeys spread around Europe in the early 1960s. In the UK, \"discotheques\" and \"discos\" were called \"clubs\" like any other nightclub, and in Germany both variants were common. Even today, the term disco exists as an alternative name for the mainstream clubs in some European countries. In Italy and Spain, the term \"discoteca\" or \"discotheque\" means mainstream clubs. In Greece, \"discotheque\" describes the retro-clubs. In Poland and Romania, the term \"disco\" is still used to refer to \"dance clubs\".\n\nAn example of the term \"disco\" with no relation to a specific music style (and dance music in general), is the \"Disco\" series that aired in Germany on the ZDF network from 1971 to 1982. This show proved that the term \"disco\" was widespread enough at the time, and that the second national TV network of Germany used it for a general music TV show in 1971. Another later example is the show \"Discoring\" on Italy's RAI channel (first aired in February 1977).\n\nThe term \"Euro-disco\" was first used during the mid-1970s to describe the non-UK based disco productions and artists such as DD Sound, Swedish group ABBA, German groups Arabesque, Boney M., Dschinghis Khan and Silver Convention, the West Germany-based Donna Summer (from USA), the Italian singer Gino Soccio , French artists Amanda Lear, Dalida, Cerrone, Hot Blood, Banzai(single \"Viva America\"), Ottawan, Dutch groups Luv', and Eurovision song contest winners Teach-In. In Spain Disco took off after the death of Francisco Franco in 1975, with artist Baccara.\n\n1970s Euro disco soon had spinoffs and variations. The most notable spinoff is space disco, a crossover of Euro disco and US Hi-NRG disco. Another popular variation, with no specific name, appeared in the late 1970s: a \"Latin\"-like sound added to the genre, which can be heard in Italy's Raffaella Carrà, Hermanas Goggi, La Bionda, D. D. Sound., Easy Going and France's Gibson Brothers.\n\nOne of the early representatives of the 1980s genre was the British group Imagination and with their series of hits throughout 1981 and 1982. The term \"Euro disco\" quickly faded in the 1980s and was replaced by the very wide term of \"Italo disco\" for more than a decade. Notably, there was also some Canadian disco productions (Trans X, Lime), that at the time was called \"Italo disco\" in Europe, but not in America (the term Hi-NRG disco was used there instead).\n\nItalo disco was the first successful 1980s Euro disco variation. Probably because of this, all the later 1980s Euro disco variations were called \"Italo disco\" by the Europeans (with the exception of Eurobeat). Italo disco began to develop in Italy in the late 1970s and early 1980s, by groups like Gazebo, Kano and 'Lectric Workers. 1980s Euro disco variations soon appeared later in France, Germany, Spain and Greece. The Italian and German Euro disco productions were the most popular. German pop duo Modern Talking was an icon of Euro disco between 1985–1987 and became the most successful Euro disco project ever. Bad Boys Blue was another very successful project.\n\nThat style became very popular in Eastern Europe and remained popular until the early 1990s. In Poland, disco polo, a local music genre relying heavily on Euro disco was developed at the verge of the 80s and 90s.\n\nDuring the late 1980s, Euro disco hits were produced in Spain and Greece and much later in Poland and Russia. Meanwhile, a sped-up version of Euro disco with dance-pop elements became successful in the US, under the term \"Hi-NRG\". Even today for many Americans, \"Hi-NRG\" means Paul Lekakis and the London Boys. Those hits (and a few others, like Londonbeat's \"I've Been Thinking About You\" from 1991) were the last hits called \"Euro disco\" in Europe.\n\nBy the early 1990s, Euro disco was influenced by the emergence of genres such as house, acid house and the electro (pop/dance/synth) music styles, and replaced (or evolved) by other music styles. Eurohouse and Italo-NRG are the most notable and connected directly with the Italo disco music scene. In America, especially for the Eurohouse style, they use the earlier term of \"Eurodance\" to describe this 1990s evolution of Euro disco.\n\nTechnically speaking, the last form of Euro disco is French house, a music style that appeared in France during the mid-1990s and slowly became widespread in Europe. French house is more of a \"back to the roots\" music style with 1970s Euro disco influences far before the Italo disco explosion (more specifically space disco, Hi-NRG disco, Canadian disco and P-funk).\n\nBy the mid to late 2000s, Euro disco saw renewed interest. Artists such as Irene Cara, Berlin and the late Laura Branigan saw a surge in popularity, especially in places where it was not commercially successful after 1984, such as North America and South America. A notable Euro disco artist to rise during this decade is Mark Ashley. His single \"Give Me a Chance\" became his most successful single yet, making the Top 40 of the Austrian chart.\n\nThe influence of Euro disco had infiltrated dance and pop in the U.S. by 1983, as European producers and songwriters inspired a new generation of American performers. While disco had been declared \"dead\" due to a backlash there in 1979, subsequent Euro-flavored successes crossing the boundaries of rock, pop and dance, such as \"Call Me\" by Blondie and \"Gloria\" by Laura Branigan, ushered in a new era of American-fronted dance music.\n\nBranigan (produced by German producer Jack White) moved deeper into the Euro disco style for further hits, alongside Giorgio Moroder-produced U.S. acts Berlin and Irene Cara. By 1984, musicians from many countries had begun to produce Euro disco songs. In Germany, notable practitioners of the sound included Modern Talking, Arabesque, Sandra, Alphaville, C.C.Catch and Austrian Falco, although he was also heavily influenced by rap and rock music.\n\nA Euro disco revival was also contributed by northern European record labels such as Iventi D'azzurro (The Netherlands) and Flashback Records (Finland), with rearranged releases of the old hits and unreleased demos resung by the original Italo singers, also including new songs. Recording artists like Joey Mauro, Karl Otto, Diva, Mark Fruttero, Fred Ventura and George Aaron have recently been releasing new albums. Joey Mauro was able to recreate the sound of 1980s Italo disco with his synthesizers and keyboard collections, and a special place within the scene is occupied by Peter Aresti, formerly known as Peter Arcade, who officially started his career in the '90s, and is one of the most popular Italo artists in South America (Mexico among all), where a huge, growing Italo disco and Hi-NRG community dwells.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2063318", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2063318", "title": "Grip (tennis)", "text": "Grip (tennis)\n\nIn tennis, a grip is a way of holding the racquet in order to hit shots during a match. The three most commonly used conventional grips are: the Continental (or \"Chopper\"), the Eastern and the Semi-Western. Most players change grips during a match depending on what shot they are hitting.\n\nIn order to understand the grips, it is important to know that the handle of a racquet always consists of 8 sides or, in other words, has an octagonal shape. A square shape would hurt the hand, while a round shape would not give enough friction to gain a firm grip. The eight sides of the handle are called bevels. They can be numbered from 1 to 8 as follows: if the blade of the racquet is perpendicular to the ground, the bevel facing up is bevel #1. Rotating the racquet clockwise, the next bevel facing up is bevel #2 for the right-handed, and counter-clockwise for the left-handed, and so on to identify all 8 bevels.\n\nPopularized by Fred Perry back in the thirties, the Continental Grip requires no change of grip position, and was therefore considered to make for a faster playing game.\nAlso called the Chopper grip or Hammer grip, it is obtained when placing the hand such that the base knuckle of the index finger is right on bevel #2. It is naturally obtained when holding the racket as if it were an axe, hence the second name \"Chopper grip\". The Continental grip is suitable for a variety of shots and therefore is often taught to absolute beginners, so that they should not bother changing grips while learning the basics of the game. This type of grip is very useful for quick volleys and strokes near the net. Since modern tennis, especially clay-court tennis, has shown an evolution towards topspin, the Continental grip has gone out of fashion with professional players for hitting groundstrokes, particularly forehands. It is still the preferred grip for serves and volleys. Additionally, the grip is used for some defensive strategies, such as chipping and blocking shots. Moreover, the grip can be used offensively to hit a \"drop shot\", which puts extreme backward spin on the ball. The rest of the grips strike a balance between high spin capacity on the one hand, and power on the other.\n\nThe Eastern forehand grip is primarily used for flatter groundstrokes. In order to execute a proper Eastern forehand grip, players need both index knuckle and heel pad to rest on bevel #3. An easy way to implement this is to place the palm flat against the strings and slide down to the handle and grab, in order to achieve an Eastern forehand. Advantages are this is one of the easiest grips for learning the forehand, easier (faster) to change to a Continental to do some volleying, topspin or slice. Notable players with this grip include Juan Martin Del Potro, Roger Federer and Steffi Graf.\n\nThe basic Two-Handed Forehand grip, is obtained by holding the racquet in a regular Continental grip, then placing the left hand above holding it in a left-handed Semi-Western Forehand grip. This places the reference bevels of the two hands exactly opposite each other. Holding the racquet using two hands for the forehand is highly unusual, but some well-known top WTA players (e.g. Monica Seles) have used it successfully. While it shortens the forehand reach and reduces maximum power, it offers unrivalled accuracy, which may more than compensate the former drawbacks. Also, combined with a two-handed backhand, it is almost impossible for the opponent to see which side (backhand or forehand) is hitting the ball. The sides often are equally accurate, and no grip change is required.\n\nThe Eastern Backhand grip is obtained when placing the hand such that the base knuckle of the index finger and heel of the hand are right on bevel #1. This grip allows for significant spin and control. The opposite face of the racket is used compared to the Eastern forehand. For someone who uses a Western forehand grip, on the other hand, the same face of the racket as in the forehand is used to strike the ball; no need to change grips if the forehand is played with a Western grip.\n\nThe Semi-Western backhand grip, is used by placing the hand such that the base knuckle of the index finger is right on bevel #8. Compared to the Continental grip, the blade has rotated 90 degrees clockwise. This forces the wrist in an uncomfortable twist but allows for the greatest possible spin.\n\nThis is basically equivalent to the Semi-Western forehand grip. The same face of the racquet as in the forehand is used to strike the ball. No need to change grips if the forehand is played with a Semi-Western grip.\n\nThe basic Two-Handed Backhand grip is obtained by holding the racquet in a regular Continental grip, then placing the left hand above holding it in a left-handed Semi-Western Forehand grip. This places the reference bevels of the two hands exactly opposite each other. Holding the racquet using two hands for the backhand is very common, but there are many variations in the precise positioning of the two hands. This also varies between right- and left-handed players.\n\nA different face of the racquet than in the forehand is used to strike the ball.\n\nFor a number of years during the first two decades of the 20th century the small, frail player Bill Johnston was considered by many to have had the best forehand of all time, a stroke that he hit shoulder-high using a Western grip. Few top players used the Western grip after the 1920s, but in the latter part of the 20th century, as shot-making techniques and equipment changed radically, the Western forehand made a strong comeback and is now used by many modern players. With the changes in technology, the various grips have come to be used very differently from previously. First, the Continental grip is used primarily to serve and to volley, not to hit forehand shots, or a backhand slice. The eastern grip is still used, though far less than in the past, and is used to hit very flat shots. It is excellent to hit low passing shots. The most popular grip on the tour is the Semi-Western grip. It gives a nice mix of spin and pace on the forehand, and offers ease to transition to the backhand grip. Finally the Western grip (and its extreme variations), are some of the most radical grips used on the tour, mostly by clay-courters, and are used to create massive amounts of topspin.\n\nThe backhand can be executed with either one or both hands. three of the top 100 ranked women used a one-handed grip. Twenty-four of the top 100 ranked men used a one-handed grip, down from almost 50 a decade earlier.\n\nFor most of the 20th century the backhand was performed with one hand, using either a backhand Eastern or Continental grip. In modern tennis, there are a few professional players who use a Western one-hand backhand. This shot is held in a similar manner to the Eastern forehand. It has much more topspin potential than the traditional Eastern one-hander. The Western one-handed backhand grip makes it easier for a one-handed player to hit balls at shoulder height, but harder to hit low balls, and vice versa for the eastern one-handed backhand. The eastern one-handed backhand and its variants are used by most pros with strong single-handed backhand drives, like Gustavo Kuerten (now retired), especially Richard Gasquet among the men, and Justine Henin (now retired) among the women.\n\nThe two-handed backhand is most commonly used with the forehand hand holding the racquet with a Continental grip and the non-dominant hand holding the racquet with a Semi-western forehand grip. While this is by far the most common way to hit a two-handed backhand, there are players who use different ways of holding the racquet for a two-handed backhand.\n\nThe player long considered to have had the best backhand of all time, Don Budge, had a very powerful one-handed stroke in the 1930s and 1940s that imparted topspin onto the ball. Ken Rosewall, a one-handed backhand, used a tremendously accurate slice backhand with underspin through the 1950s and 1960s. The one-handed backhand slice is often used in rallies as it is a comfortable shot. Andre Agassi in particular increased his use of the one-handed backhand and often hit an unreturnable dropshot with it.\n\nThe grip for the serve depends on the type of serve. At professional levels, the top spin serve is hit with an Eastern backhand grip (bevel #1). The server stands at an angle to the baseline, so that they can turn during the service and make contact with the racquet squarely on the ball.\n\nAt professional levels, the slice serve is most commonly hit with a Continental grip (bevel #2). The server tosses the ball a little to the right of his body (if they are right-handed) and cuts the ball at the side to impart spin. For a right-hander, the slice serve curves to the left, and is useful in pulling the opponent out wide, or serving into his body. Many players, however, use an Eastern backhand grip (bevel #1) for their spin serves; this gives the racquet even more angle as it sweeps across the ball.\n\nThere are three types of kick (topspin) serves; the pure topspin serve, the topspin-slice serve, and the twist serve. For most, the topspin serve is hit by using an Eastern backhand grip (bevel #1) and the ball is thrown so that if it were to drop, it would land on the server's heel or head. In the topspin serve, the racquet brushes up the backside of the ball to impart topspin. In the topspin-slice or kick serve, the racquet is held with an Eastern backhand or Continental grip. The topspin-slice serve has both topspin and slice, and, when hit correctly, bounces in the opposite direction from the slice serve. An extreme serve requiring flexibility and a strong back, the American twist, is where one tosses the ball usually very far off to the left (for right-handed players) and imparts spin going the opposite direction of a topspin-slice serve. All of these serves are used to make an effective serve that nevertheless has a high safety factor because they clear the net with a relatively high margin of space and use the topspin to pull the ball down into the service box.\n\n"}
{"id": "2063321", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2063321", "title": "Tim Gallagher", "text": "Tim Gallagher\n\nTim Gallagher has been the editor-in-chief of the Cornell Laboratory of Ornithology's \"Living Bird\" magazine since 1990.\n\nAs one of the first three searchers to report seeing and identifying the species, he played an instrumental role in the 2004/2005 Arkansas reports of the ivory-billed woodpecker. His book about the experience, \"The Grail Bird: Hot on the Trail of the Ivory-billed Woodpecker\" () was published in May 2005. His latest book, \"Falcon Fever\" (), about his lifelong fascination with birds of prey, was released in May 2008.\n\nGallagher was born in England and received a B.A. in magazine journalism, and an M.A. in English, both from California State University.\n\n"}
{"id": "2063334", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2063334", "title": "Rutherford (lunar crater)", "text": "Rutherford (lunar crater)\n\nRutherford is a small lunar impact crater that lies on the Moon's far side. It was named after New Zealand-British physicist and Nobel laureate Ernest Rutherford. It is located just to the north-northwest of the huge walled plain Mendeleev. To the east of Rutherford is the equally diminutive crater Glauber, and to the west-northwest lies Hoffmeister.\n\nThis crater has a roughly pear-shaped outline, with an elongated section at the north-northwestern end. The rim edge is well-defined and the inner walls are simple slopes that run down to the small interior floor.\n\n"}
{"id": "2063339", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2063339", "title": "Stobrawa potato", "text": "Stobrawa potato\n\nStobrawa is a cultivar of Polish potato (also known as 'Mila' and 'Glada') used for food and vodka distilling. It has high levels of starch.\n"}
{"id": "2063344", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2063344", "title": "Texas's 15th congressional district", "text": "Texas's 15th congressional district\n\nTexas's 15th congressional district of the United States House of Representatives includes a thin section of the far south of the state of Texas. The district's current Representative is Democrat Vicente Gonzalez, first-elected in 2017.\n\nThe district's best-known Representative was John Nance Garner, who represented the district from its creation in 1903 until 1933, and was Speaker of the House from 1931 to 1933. He ran with Franklin D. Roosevelt in the 1932 and 1936 presidential campaigns, and was elected Vice President of the United States, serving from 1933 to 1941.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2063352", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2063352", "title": "Mechanised agriculture", "text": "Mechanised agriculture\n\nMechanised agriculture is the process of using agricultural machinery to mechanise the work of agriculture, greatly increasing farm worker productivity. In modern times, powered machinery has replaced many farm jobs formerly carried out by manual labour or by working animals such as oxen, horses and mules.\n\nThe entire history of agriculture contains many examples of the use of tools, such as the hoe and the plough. The ongoing integration of machines since the Industrial Revolution however has allowed farming to become much less labour-intensive.\n\nCurrent mechanised agriculture includes the use of tractors, trucks, combine harvesters, countless types of farm implements, aeroplanes and helicopters (for aerial application), and other vehicles. Precision agriculture even uses computers in conjunction with satellite imagery and satellite navigation (GPS guidance) to increase yields.\n\nMechanisation was one of the large factors responsible for urbanisation and industrial economies. Besides improving production efficiency, mechanisation encourages large scale production and sometimes can improve the quality of farm produce. On the other hand, it can displace unskilled farm labour and can cause environmental degradation (such as pollution, deforestation, and soil erosion), especially if it is applied shortsightedly rather than holistically.\n\nJethro Tull's seed drill (ca. 1701) was a mechanical seed spacing and depth placing device that increased crop yields and saved seed. It was an important factor in the British Agricultural Revolution.\n\nSince the beginning of agriculture threshing was done by hand with a flail, requiring a great deal of labour. The threshing machine, which was invented in 1794 but not widely used for several more decades, simplified the operation and allowed the use of animal power. Before the invention of the grain cradle (ca. 1790) an able bodied labourer could reap about one quarter acre of wheat in a day using a sickle. It was estimated that each of Cyrus McCormick's horse-pulled reapers (ca. 1830s) freed up five men for military service in the US Civil War. Later innovations included raking and binding machines. By 1890 two men and two horses could cut, rake and bind 20 acres of wheat per day.\n\nIn the 1880s the reaper and threshing machine were combined into the combine harvester. These machines required large teams of horses or mules to pull. Steam power was applied to threshing machines in the late 19th century. There were steam engines that moved around on wheels under their own power for supplying temporary power to stationary threshing machines. These were called \"road engines,\" and Henry Ford seeing one as a boy was inspired to build an automobile.\n\nWith internal combustion came the first modern tractors in the early 1900s, becoming more popular after the Fordson tractor (ca. 1917). At first reapers and combine harvesters were pulled by teams of horses or tractors, but in the 1930s self powered combines were developed. \n\nAdvertising for motorised equipment in farm journals during this era did its best to compete against horse-drawn methods with economic arguments, extolling common themes such as that a tractor \"eats only when it works\", that one tractor could replace many horses, and that mechanisation could allow one man to get more work done per day than he ever had before. The horse population in the US began to decline in the 1920s after the conversion of agriculture and transportation to internal combustion. Peak tractor sales in the US were around 1950. In addition to saving labour, this freed up much land previously used for supporting draft animals. The greatest period of growth in agricultural productivity in the US was from the 1940s to the 1970s, during which time agriculture was benefiting from internal combustion powered tractors and combine harvesters, chemical fertilisers and the green revolution.\n\nAlthough farmers of corn, wheat, soy, and other commodity crops had replaced most of their workers with harvesting machines and combines by the 1950s enabling them to efficiently cut and gather grains, growers of produce continued to rely on human pickers to avoid the bruising of the product in order to maintain the blemish-free appearance demanded by consumers. The continuous supply of illegal workers from Latin America that were willing to harvest the crops for low wages further suppressed the need for mechanisation. As the number of illegal workers has continued to decline since reaching its peak in 2007 due to increased border patrols and an improving Mexican economy, the industry is increasing the use of mechanisation. Proponents argue that mechanisation will boost productivity and help to maintain low food prices while farm worker advocates assert that it will eliminate jobs and will give an advantage to large growers who are able to afford the required equipment.\n\nAsparagus are presently harvested by hand with labour costs at 71% of production costs and 44% of selling costs. Asparagus is a difficult crop to harvest since each spear matures at a different speed making it difficult to achieve a uniform harvest. A prototype asparagus harvesting machine - using a light-beam sensor to identify the taller spears - is expected to be available for commercial use.\n\nMechanization of Maine's blueberry industry has reduced the number of migrant workers required from 5,000 in 2005 to 1,500 in 2015 even though production has increased from 50-60 million pounds per year in 2005 to 90 million pounds in 2015.\n\nAs of 2014, prototype chili pepper harvesters are being tested by New Mexico State University. The New Mexico green chile crop is currently hand-picked entirely by field workers as chili pods tend to bruise easily. The first commercial application commenced in 2015. The equipment is expected to increase yield per acre and help to offset a sharp decline in acreage planted due to the lack of available labour and drought conditions.\n\nAs of 2010, approximately 10% of the processing orange acreage in Florida is harvested mechanically, mainly with citrus canopy shaker machines. Mechanization has progressed slowly due to the uncertainty of future economic benefits due to competition from Brazil and the transitory damage to orange trees when they are harvested.\n\nThere has been an ongoing transition to mechanical harvesting of cling peaches (mostly used in canning) where the cost of labor is 70 percent of a grower's direct costs. In 2016, 12 percent of the cling peach tonnage from Yuba County and Sutter County in California will be mechanically harvested. Fresh peaches destined for direct consumer sales must still be hand-picked.\n\nAs of 2007, mechanised harvesting of raisins is at 45%; however the rate has slowed due to high raisin demand and prices making the conversion away from hand labour less urgent. A new strain of grape developed by the USDA that drys on the vine and is easily harvested mechanically is expected to reduce the demand for labour.\n\nStrawberries are a high cost-high value crop with the economics supporting mechanisation. In 2005, picking and hauling costs were estimated at $594 per ton or 51% of the total grower cost. However, the delicate nature of fruit make it an unlikely candidate for mechanisation in the near future. A strawberry harvester developed by Shibuya Seiki and unveiled in Japan in 2013 is able to pick a strawberry every eight seconds. The robot identifies which strawberries are ready to pick by using three separate cameras and then once identified as ready, a mechanised arm snips the fruit free and gently places it in a basket. The robot moves on rails between the rows of strawberries which are generally contained within elevated greenhouses. The machine costs 5 million yen. A new strawberry harvester made by Agrobot that will harvest strawberries on raised, hydroponic beds using 60 robotic arms is expected to be released in 2016.\n\nMechanical harvesting of tomatoes started in 1965 and as of 2010, nearly all processing tomatoes are mechanically harvested. As of 2010, 95% of the US processed tomato crop is produced in California. Although fresh market tomatoes have substantial hand harvesting costs (in 2007, the costs of hand picking and hauling were $86 per ton which is 19% of total grower cost), packing and selling costs were more of a concern (at 44% of total grower cost) making it likely that cost saving efforts would be applied there.\n\nAccording to a 1977 report by the California Agrarian Action Project, during the summer of 1976 in California, many harvest machines had been equipped with a photo-electric scanner that sorted out green tomatoes among the ripe red ones using infrared lights and colour sensors. It worked in lieu of 5,000 hand harvesters causing displacement of innumerable farm labourers as well as wage cuts and shorter work periods. Migrant workers were hit the hardest. To withstand the rigour of the machines, new crop varieties were bred to match the automated pickers. UC Davis Professor G.C. Hanna propagated a thick-skinned tomato called VF-145. But even still, millions were damaged with impact cracks and university breeders produced a tougher and juiceless \"square round\" tomato. Small farms were of insufficient size to obtain financing to purchase the equipment and within 10 years, 85% of the state's 4,000 cannery\ntomato farmers were out of the business. This led to a concentrated tomato industry in California that \"now packed 85% of the nation’s tomato products\". The monoculture fields fostered rapid pest growth, requiring the use of “more than four million pounds of pesticides each year” which greatly affected the health of the soil, the farm workers, and possibly the consumers.\n\n"}
{"id": "2063356", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2063356", "title": "Semisopochnoi Island", "text": "Semisopochnoi Island\n\nSemisopochnoi Island or Unyak Island (obsolete , modern Semisopochny \"having seven hills\"; ) is part of the Rat Islands group in the western Aleutian Islands of Alaska. The island is uninhabited and provides an important nesting area for maritime birds. The island is of volcanic origin, containing several volcanoes including Mount Cerberus. It has a land area of 85.558 square miles (221.59 square km), measuring 11 miles (18 km) in length and 12 miles (20 km) in width.\n\nAt 179°46' East (+179.7667) (in the Eastern Hemisphere), the easternmost tip of Semisopochnoi is, by longitude, the easternmost land location in the United States and North America. Semisopochnoi sits only 14 minutes (0.2333 degrees) west of the 180th meridian.\n\nSemisopochnoi has no native land mammals. Arctic foxes were introduced to the island during the 19th century for fur farming and removed in 1997. Most ground-nesting bird species (Aleutian cackling goose, rock ptarmigan) and most burrow-nesting seabirds (storm-petrels, ancient murrelets, Cassin's auklets, tufted puffins) were extirpated by foxes; Semisopochnoi Island is currently in the early stages of recovery. The island has remained free of Norway rats.\n\nThe large least and crested auklet colony near Sugarloaf Head is one of the largest among the nine auklet colonies in the Aleutian Islands. Crested auklets and least auklets breed in one colony, located on the south facing slopes of Sugarloaf Peak volcano and its associated cinder cones near Sugarloaf Head. Semisopochnoi Island also supports a significant population of red-faced cormorants.\n\nIn total, Semisopochnoi supports well over a million seabirds, most of which are least auklets or crested auklets.\n\nSemisopochnoi, the largest subaerial volcano of the western Aleutians, is 20 km wide at sea level and contains a caldera 8 km wide that formed as a result of collapse of a low-angle, dominantly basaltic volcano following the eruption of a large volume of dacitic pumice. The high point of the island is 1,221 meter Anvil Peak, a double-peaked cone that forms much of the island's northern part. The three-peaked, 774-meter high Mount Cerberus is a volcano within the caldera. Each of the peaks contains a summit crater; lava flows on the northern flank of Cerberus appear younger than those on the southern side. Other post-caldera volcanoes include the symmetrical 855 m high Sugarloaf Peak south-southeast of the caldera and Lakeshore Cone, a small cinder cone at the edge of Fenner Lake in the northeast part of the caldera. Most documented historical eruptions have originated from Cerberus, although Coats (1950) considered that both Sugarloaf and Lakeshore Cone within the caldera could have been active during historical time.\n\nSemisopochnoi's last known volcanic eruptions took place in October 2018 and July 2019. A historic eruption of Semisopochnoi was reported in 1873, and at least four others may have occurred in the previous hundred years, but documentation is scant. These eruptions apparently emanated from the flanks of Mount Cerberus; the most recent flow appears to be less than a century old.\n\nSemisopochnoi’s position in the Aleutian Island Chain gives it the distinction of being the Aleutian island most immediately West of the 180th meridian, giving it longitudinal coordinates in the Eastern Hemisphere. Therefore, some have argued it is technically the easternmost location in North America, most famously Ken Jennings. This is a counterintuitive argument considering its location near the extreme Western boundary of the United States, and depends on a series of assumptions about the definition of boundaries between hemispheres, boundaries between continents, as well as whether island locations should even be considered part of a continent.\n\nThe other contenders for the title of easternmost North America location are Nordost Rundingen, Greenland at 12°08' West (-12.1333) and Cape Spear, Newfoundland, Canada at 52°37' West (-52.6167) —which, along with Semisopochnoi, are all island locations. Cape St. Charles at 55° 37' West (-55.6167) on the Labrador Peninsula is the easternmost point of mainland North America. Cape Spear is the easternmost location relative to the geographic center of North America if Greenland is excluded because it is not politically part of North America. For this and other reasons, Cape Spear is traditionally considered to be the easternmost location in North America. The locations within the territory of the Aleutian Islands which lie exactly on the 180th meridian are by longitude simultaneously the easternmost and westernmost points of the United States.\n\n"}
{"id": "2063359", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2063359", "title": "Chi (unit)", "text": "Chi (unit)\n\nThe chi is a traditional Chinese unit of length. Although it is often translated as the \"\", its length was originally derived from the distance measured by a human hand, from the tip of the thumb to the tip of the forefinger, and is similar to the ancient span. It first appeared during China's Shang dynasty approximately 3000 years ago and has since been adopted by other East Asian cultures such as Japan (\"shaku\"), Korea (\"ja\"), and Vietnam. Its present value is standardized at around , although the exact standards vary among the mainland of the People's Republic of China, its special administrative region of Hong Kong, and Taiwan.\n\nIn its ancient and modern forms, the chi is divided into 10 smaller units known as cun (the \"Chinese inch\"). 10 chi are equal to 1 zhàng.\n\nIn the People's Republic of China \"chi\" has been defined since 1984 as exactly 1/3 of a metre, i.e., . However, in the Hong Kong SAR the corresponding unit, pronounced \"chek\" in Cantonese, is defined as exactly .\nThe two units are sometimes referred to in English as \"Chinese foot\" and \"Hong Kong foot\".\n\nIn Taiwan, \"chi\" is the same as the Japanese \"shaku\", i.e., .\n\nThe study of ancient rulers and other artifacts whose size in the contemporary \"chi\" was known allowed modern researchers to surmise that during the 2nd century BC to 3rd century AD the (Qin Dynasty to Han Dynasty to the Three Kingdoms period), the value of the \"chi\" varied between . Even earlier, during the Warring States era, the value of \"chi\" was essentially the same.\n\nIt is thought that the ancient Chinese astronomers also used \"chi\" as an angular unit; modern analysis of historical records indicates that it may have been equal to one degree.\n\nIn the 19th century, the value of the \"chi\", depending on the part of the country and the application, varied between . According to an 1864 British report, in most of China the \"chi\" used by engineers in public works was equal to , the surveyors' \"chi\" was , while the value generally used for measuring distances was . In Guangzhou, however, the \"chi\" used for local trade varied from – i.e., very close to the modern \"chek\". The value fixed by a Sino-British treaty for the purposes of customs duties in Hong Kong was .\n\nDue to its long history and its widespread usage, \"chi\" (along with \"cun\") has also seen metaphorical usages in the Chinese language. For example, \"chi cun\" (), a word made up of the units \"chi\" and \"cun\", refers to the dimensions of an object, while the idiom \"dé cùn jìn chǐ\" () means \"extremely greedy\".\n\nIn informal use in China, \"chi\" is also sometimes used to refer to the US or imperial foot.\n"}
{"id": "2063362", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2063362", "title": "Rick Goodman", "text": "Rick Goodman\n\nRick Goodman is a video game designer and the founder and owner of the now-defunct Stainless Steel Studios. He is best known for the RTS games he designed, such as Age of Empires and Empire Earth.\n\nIn 1995 Goodman co-founded Ensemble Studios together with his brother, Tony Goodman, and John Boog-Scott. Their first project was Age of Empires (AoE), in which Goodman worked as Lead Designer. After the game's release, it became an overnight sensation and Goodman became one of the most recognized game developers in the world. Because of the success of the game, some said that Goodman had invented in AoE \"the most well recognized game interface for RTS games\", because afterward many games like it began to use the AoE game interface: a mini map, unit and building controls, the name of your civilization and the age which you are currently in on top of the screen and others.\n\nAfter Age of Empires, Goodman left Ensemble to form his own studio with Dara-Lynn Pelechatz: Stainless Steel Studios in 1998. Pelechatz told GameSpy that Goodman couldn't decide what name to give for his studio, so he opened a catalog with the plan to baptise the studio with the very first thing he encountered.\n\nIn 2001, Stainless Steel, under Goodman, created Empire Earth. The game, which was published by Sierra Entertainment, offered many new features, including a 3D view of the world, impressive zoom-in and zoom-out features, and a timeline that spanned from pre-history to the twenty-second century (over 500,000 years). The game won the GameSpy PC \"Game-of-the-Year 2001\" Award. According to some, \"Empire Earth\" was what Goodman wanted \"Age of Empires\" to be. PC Gamer said in an article about \"Empire Earth\" that it feels like it's the gold edition of the \"entire\" AoE-series (which is all the AoE games, including the unreal games such as an AoE IV and V).\n\nGoodman would soon break up with Sierra and start working on a new game . The game is very similar to Goodman's previous successes, except the game spans only a millennium of entire history of humanity, from 950 to 1950, which is said to be the most pivotal years in human history. The game was released in 2003 and published by Activision. Ironically, although it wasn't much of a hit, the game was rated, in some reviews and websites, \"higher\" than Empire Earth.\n\nAfter \"Empires\", Goodman helped in the creation of another game: which was published by Myelin Media in US and SEGA in Europe. It was 1st released on November 2004.\n\nGoodman's last game was real time strategy game published and partially developed by Midway Games and was released on July 12, 2006.\n\nGoodman is currently a board member of 8D World, which built a virtual world where Chinese children learn English.\nAt the end of November 2005, with only weeks to go before release of \"Rise and Fall\", Stainless Steel Studios closed abruptly and laid off all employees. According to one interview, Goodman blamed the shutdown of his company on Midway. In that interview, the details quotes studio founder Rick Goodman as blaming Rise & Fall publisher Midway Games for the developer's fiscal insolvency. He reportedly told Gamestar that after the PC strategy game's release was pushed from October to early 2006, Midway cut off advances to Stainless Steel, which in turn had to lay off its staff due to lack of funding. Midway had stated in a report that it would continue to work on the game and did eventually release it in June 2006.\n\nRick Goodman has taken part in developing many games:\n"}
{"id": "2063365", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2063365", "title": "Fish reproduction", "text": "Fish reproduction\n\nFish reproductive organs include testes and ovaries. In most species, gonads are paired organs of similar size, which can be partially or totally fused. There may also be a range of secondary organs that increase reproductive fitness. The genital papilla is a small, fleshy tube behind the anus in some fishes, from which the sperm or eggs are released; the sex of a fish often can be determined by the shape of its papilla.\n\nMost male fish have two testes of similar size. In the case of sharks, the testes on the right side is usually larger. The primitive jawless fish have only a single testis, located in the midline of the body, although even this forms from the fusion of paired structures in the embryo.\n\nUnder a tough membranous shell, the tunica albuginea, the testis of some teleost fish, contains very fine coiled tubes called seminiferous tubules. The tubules are lined with a layer of cells (germ cells) that from puberty into old age, develop into sperm cells (also known as spermatozoa or male gametes). The developing sperm travel through the seminiferous tubules to the rete testis located in the mediastinum testis, to the efferent ducts, and then to the epididymis where newly created sperm cells mature (see spermatogenesis). The sperm move into the vas deferens, and are eventually expelled through the urethra and out of the urethral orifice through muscular contractions.\n\nHowever, most fish do not possess seminiferous tubules. Instead, the sperm are produced in spherical structures called \"sperm ampullae\". These are seasonal structures, releasing their contents during the breeding season, and then being reabsorbed by the body. Before the next breeding season, new sperm ampullae begin to form and ripen. The ampullae are otherwise essentially identical to the seminiferous tubules in higher vertebrates, including the same range of cell types.\n\nIn terms of spermatogonia distribution, the structure of teleosts testes has two types: in the most common, spermatogonia occur all along the seminiferous tubules, while in Atherinomorph fish they are confined to the distal portion of these structures. Fish can present cystic or semi-cystic spermatogenesis in relation to the release phase of germ cells in cysts to the seminiferous tubules lumen.\n\nMany of the features found in ovaries are common to all vertebrates, including the presence of follicular cells and tunica albuginea There may be hundreds or even millions of fertile eggs present in the ovary of a fish at any given time. Fresh eggs may be developing from the germinal epithelium throughout life. Corpora lutea are found only in mammals, and in some elasmobranch fish; in other species, the remnants of the follicle are quickly resorbed by the ovary. The ovary of teleosts is often contains a hollow, lymph-filled space which opens into the oviduct, and into which the eggs are shed. Most normal female fish have two ovaries. In some elasmobranchs, only the right ovary develops fully. In the primitive jawless fish, and some teleosts, there is only one ovary, formed by the fusion of the paired organs in the embryo.\n\nFish ovaries may be of three types: gymnovarian, secondary gymnovarian or cystovarian. In the first type, the oocytes are released directly into the coelomic cavity and then enter the ostium, then through the oviduct and are eliminated. Secondary gymnovarian ovaries shed ova into the coelom from which they go directly into the oviduct. In the third type, the oocytes are conveyed to the exterior through the oviduct. Gymnovaries are the primitive condition found in lungfish, sturgeon, and bowfin. Cystovaries characterize most teleosts, where the ovary lumen has continuity with the oviduct. Secondary gymnovaries are found in salmonids and a few other teleosts.\n\nThe eggs of fish and amphibians are jellylike. Cartilagenous fish (sharks, skates, rays, chimaeras) eggs are fertilized internally and exhibit a wide variety of both internal and external embryonic development. Most fish species spawn eggs that are fertilized externally, typically with the male inseminating the eggs after the female lays them. These eggs do not have a shell and would dry out in the air. Even air-breathing amphibians lay their eggs in water, or in protective foam as with the Coast foam-nest treefrog, \"Chiromantis xerampelina\".\n\nMale cartilaginous fishes (sharks and rays), as well as the males of some live-bearing ray finned fishes, have fins that have been modified to function as intromittent organs, reproductive appendages which allow internal fertilization. In ray finned fish they are called \"gonopodiums\" or \"andropodiums\", and in cartilaginous fish they are called \"claspers\".\n\n\"Gonopodia\" are found on the males of some species in the Anablepidae and Poeciliidae families. They are anal fins that have been modified to function as movable intromittent organs and are used to impregnate females with milt during mating. The third, fourth and fifth rays of the male's anal fin are formed into a tube-like structure in which the sperm of the fish is ejected. When ready for mating, the gonopodium becomes erect and points forward towards the female. The male shortly inserts the organ into the sex opening of the female, with hook-like adaptations that allow the fish to grip onto the female to ensure impregnation. If a female remains stationary and her partner contacts her vent with his gonopodium, she is fertilized. The sperm is preserved in the female's oviduct. This allows females to fertilize themselves at any time without further assistance from males. In some species, the gonopodium may be half the total body length. Occasionally the fin is too long to be used, as in the \"lyretail\" breeds of \"Xiphophorus helleri\". Hormone treated females may develop gonopodia. These are useless for breeding.\n\nSimilar organs with similar characteristics are found in other fishes, for example the \"andropodium\" in the \"Hemirhamphodon\" or in the Goodeidae.\n\n\"Claspers\" are found on the males of cartilaginous fishes. They are the posterior part of the pelvic fins that have also been modified to function as intromittent organs, and are used to channel semen into the female's cloaca during copulation. The act of mating in sharks usually includes raising one of the claspers to allow water into a siphon through a specific orifice. The clasper is then inserted into the cloaca, where it opens like an umbrella to anchor its position. The siphon then begins to contract expelling water and sperm.\n\nOogonia development in teleosts fish varies according to the group, and the determination of oogenesis dynamics allows the understanding of maturation and fertilisation processes. Changes in the nucleus, ooplasm, and the surrounding layers characterize the oocyte maturation process.\n\nPostovulatory follicles are structures formed after oocyte release; they do not have endocrine function, present a wide irregular lumen, and are rapidly reabsorbed in a process involving the apoptosis of follicular cells. A degenerative process called follicular atresia reabsorbs vitellogenic oocytes not spawned. This process can also occur, but less frequently, in oocytes in other development stages.\n\nSome fish are hermaphrodites, having both testes and ovaries either at different phases in their life cycle or, as in hamlets, have them simultaneously.\n\nIn fish, fertilisation of eggs can be either external or internal. In many species of fish, fins have been modified to allow Internal fertilisation. Similarly, development of the embryo can be external or internal, although some species show a change between the two at various stages of embryo development. Thierry Lodé described reproductive strategies in terms of the development of the zygote and the interrelationship with the parents; there are five classifications - ovuliparity, oviparity, ovo-viviparity, histotrophic viviparity and hemotrophic viviparity.\n\nOvuliparity means the female lays unfertilised eggs (ova), which must then be externally fertilised. Examples of ovuliparous fish include salmon, goldfish, cichlids, tuna and eels. In the majority of these species, fertilisation takes place outside the mother's body, with the male and female fish shedding their gametes into the surrounding water.\n\nOviparity is where fertilisation occurs internally and so the female sheds zygotes (or newly developing embryos) into the water, often with important outer tissues added. Over 97% of all known fish are oviparous. In oviparous fish, internal fertilisation requires the male to use some sort of intromittent organ to deliver sperm into the genital opening of the female. Examples include the oviparous sharks, such as the horn shark, and oviparous rays, such as skates. In these cases, the male is equipped with a pair of modified pelvic fins known as claspers.\n\nMarine fish can produce high numbers of eggs which are often released into the open water column. The eggs have an average diameter of . The eggs are generally surrounded by the extraembryonic membranes but do not develop a shell, hard or soft, around these membranes. Some fish have thick, leathery coats, especially if they must withstand physical force or desiccation. These type of eggs can also be very small and fragile.\n\nThe newly hatched young of oviparous fish are called larvae. They are usually poorly formed, carry a large yolk sac (for nourishment) and are very different in appearance from juvenile and adult specimens. The larval period in oviparous fish is relatively short (usually only several weeks), and larvae rapidly grow and change appearance and structure (a process termed metamorphosis) to become juveniles. During this transition larvae must switch from their yolk sac to feeding on zooplankton prey, a process which depends on typically inadequate zooplankton density, starving many larvae.\n\nIn ovoviviparous fish the eggs develop inside the mother's body after internal fertilisation but receive little or no nourishment directly from the mother, depending instead on a food reserve inside the egg, the yolk. Each embryo develops in its own egg. Familiar examples of ovoviviparous fish include guppies, angel sharks, and coelacanths.\n\nThere are two types of viviparity, differentiated by how the offspring gain their nutrients.\n\n\nAquarists commonly refer to ovoviviparous and viviparous fish as livebearers.\n\nHermaphroditism occurs when a given individual in a species possesses both male and female reproductive organs, or can alternative between possessing first one, and then the other. Hermaphroditism is common in invertebrates but rare in vertebrates. It can be contrasted with gonochorism, where each individual in a species is either male or female, and remains that way throughout their lives. Most fish are gonochorists, but hermaphroditism is known to occur in 14 families of teleost fishes.\n\nUsually hermaphrodites are \"sequential\", meaning they can switch sex, usually from female to male (protogyny). This can happen if a dominant male is removed from a group of females. The largest female in the harem can switch sex over a few days and replace the dominant male. This is found amongst coral reef fishes such as groupers, parrotfishes and wrasses. It is less common for a male to switch to a female (protandry). As an example, most wrasses are protogynous hermaphrodites within a haremic mating system. Hermaphroditism allows for complex mating systems. Wrasses exhibit three different mating systems: polygynous, lek-like, and promiscuous mating systems. Group spawning and pair spawning occur within mating systems. The type of spawning that occurs depends on male body size. Labroids typically exhibit broadcast spawning, releasing high amounts of planktonic eggs, which are broadcast by tidal currents; adult wrasses have no interaction with offspring. Wrasse of a particular subgroup of the family Labridae, Labrini, do not exhibit broadcast spawning.\n\nLess commonly hermaphrodites can be \"synchronous\", meaning they simultaneously possess both ovaries and testicles and can function as either sex at any one time. Black hamlets \"take turns releasing sperm and eggs during spawning. Because such egg trading is advantageous to both individuals, hamlets are typically monogamous for short periods of time–an unusual situation in fishes.\" The sex of many fishes is not fixed, but can change with physical and social changes to the environment where the fish lives.\n\nParticularly among fishes, hermaphroditism can pay off in situations where one sex is more likely to survive and reproduce, perhaps because it is larger. Anemone fishes are sequential hermaphrodites which are born as males, and become females only when they are mature. Anemone fishes live together monogamously in an anemone, protected by the anemone stings. The males do not have to compete with other males, and female anemone fish are typically larger. When a female dies a juvenile (male) anemone fish moves in, and \"the resident male then turns into a female and reproductive advantages of the large female–small male combination continue\". In other fishes sex changes are reversible. For example, if some gobies are grouped by sex (male or female), some will switch sex.\n\nThe mangrove rivulus \"Kryptolebias marmoratus\" produces both eggs and sperm by meiosis and routinely reproduces by self-fertilization. Each individual hermaphrodite normally fertilizes itself when an egg and sperm that it has produced by an internal organ unite inside the fish's body. In nature, this mode of reproduction can yield highly homozygous lines composed of individuals so genetically uniform as to be, in effect, identical to one another. The capacity for selfing in these fishes has apparently persisted for at least several hundred thousand years.\n\nAlthough inbreeding, especially in the extreme form of self-fertilization, is ordinarily regarded as detrimental because it leads to expression of deleterious recessive alleles, self-fertilization does provide the benefit of \"fertilization assurance\" (reproductive assurance) at each generation.\n\nSexual parasitism is a mode of sexual reproduction, unique to anglerfish, in which the males of a species are much smaller than the females, and rely on the females for food and protection from predators. The males give nothing back except the sperm which the females need in order to produce the next generation.\n\nSome anglerfish, like those of the deep sea ceratioid group, employ this unusual mating method. Because individuals are very thinly distributed, encounters are also very rare. Therefore, finding a mate is problematic. When scientists first started capturing ceratioid anglerfish, they noticed that all the specimens were female. These individuals were a few centimetres in size and almost all of them had what appeared to be parasites attached to them. It turned out that these \"parasites\" were highly reduced male ceratioid anglerfish. This indicates the anglerfish use a polyandrous mating system.\n\nThe methods by which the anglerfish locate mates are variable. Some species have minute eyes unfit for identifying females, while others have underdeveloped nostrils, making it unlikely that they effectively find females using olfaction. When a male finds a female, he bites into her skin, and releases an enzyme that digests the skin of his mouth and her body, fusing the pair down to the blood-vessel level. The male becomes dependent on the female host for survival by receiving nutrients via their now-shared circulatory system, and provides sperm to the female in return. After fusing, males increase in volume and become much larger relative to free-living males of the species. They live and remain reproductively functional as long as the female stays alive, and can take part in multiple spawnings. This extreme sexual dimorphism ensures that when the female is ready to spawn she has a mate immediately available. Multiple males can be incorporated into a single individual female with up to eight males in some species, though some taxa appear to have a one male per female rule.\n\nOne explanation for the evolution of sexual parasitism is that the relative low density of females in deep-sea environments leaves little opportunity for mate choice among anglerfish. Females remain large to accommodate fecundity, as is evidenced by their large ovaries and eggs. Males would be expected to shrink to reduce metabolic costs in resource-poor environments and would develop highly specialized female-finding abilities. If a male manages to find a female parasitic attachment, then it is ultimately more likely to improve lifetime fitness relative to free living, particularly when the prospect of finding future mates is poor. An additional advantage to parasitism is that the male's sperm can be used in multiple fertilizations, as he stays always available to the female for mating. Higher densities of male-female encounters might correlate with species that demonstrate facultative parasitism or simply use a more traditional temporary contact mating.\n\nParthenogenesis is a form of asexual reproduction in which growth and development of embryos occur without fertilization. In animals, parthenogenesis means development of an embryo from an unfertilized egg cell. The first all-female (unisexual) reproduction in vertebrates was described in the \"Amazon molly\" in 1932. Since then at least 50 species of unisexual vertebrate have been described, including at least 20 fish, 25 lizards, a single snake species, frogs, and salamanders. As with all types of asexual reproduction, there are both costs (low genetic diversity and therefore susceptibility to adverse mutations that might occur) and benefits (reproduction without the need for a male) associated with parthenogenesis.\n\nParthenogenesis in sharks has been confirmed in the bonnethead and zebra shark. Other, usually sexual species, may occasionally reproduce parthenogenetically, and the hammerhead and blacktip sharks are recent additions to the known list of facultative parthenogenetic vertebrates.\n\nA special case of parthenogenesis is gynogenesis. In this type of reproduction, offspring are produced by the same mechanism as in parthenogenesis, however, the egg is stimulated to develop simply by the \"presence\" of sperm - the sperm cells do not contribute any genetic material to the offspring. Because gynogenetic species are all female, activation of their eggs requires mating with males of a closely related species for the needed stimulus. The Amazon molly, (pictured), reproduces by gynogenesis.\n\nThe elkhorn sculpin (\"Alcichthys elongatus\") is a marine teleost with a unique reproductive mode called “internal gametic association”. Sperm are introduced into the ovary by copulation and then enter the micropylar canal of ovulated eggs in the ovarian cavity. However, actual sperm-egg fusion does not occur until the eggs have been released into sea water.\n\nThe effect of inbreeding on reproductive behavior was studied in the poeciliid fish \"Heterandria formosa\". One generation of full-sib mating was found to decrease reproductive performance and likely reproductive success of male progeny. Other traits that displayed inbreeding depression were offspring viability and maturation time of both males and females.\n\nExposure of zebra fish to a chemical environmental agent, analogous to that caused by anthropogenic pollution, amplified the effects of inbreeding on key reproductive traits. Embryo viability was significantly reduced in inbred exposed fish and there was a tendency for inbred males to sire fewer offspring.\n\nThe behaviors of juvenile Coho salmon with either low or medium inbreeding were compared in paired contests. Fish with low inbreeding showed almost twice the aggressive pursuit in defending territory than fish with medium inbreeding, and furthermore had a higher specific growth rate. A significant effect of inbreeding depression on juvenile survival was also found, but only in high-density competitive environments, suggesting that intra-specific competition can magnify the deleterious effects of inbreeding.\n\nInbreeding ordinarily has negative fitness consequences (inbreeding depression), and as a result species have evolved mechanisms to avoid inbreeding. Numerous inbreeding avoidance mechanisms operating prior to mating have been described. However, inbreeding avoidance mechanisms that operate subsequent to copulation are less well known. In guppies, a post-copulatory mechanism of inbreeding avoidance occurs based on competition between sperm of rival males for achieving fertilisation. In competitions between sperm from an unrelated male and from a full sibling male, a significant bias in paternity towards the unrelated male was observed.\n\nInbreeding depression is considered to be due largely to the expression of homozygous deleterious recessive mutations. Outcrossing between unrelated individuals results in the beneficial masking of deleterious recessive mutations in progeny.\n\nGoldfish, like all cyprinids, are egg-layers. They usually start breeding after a significant temperature change, often in spring. Males chase females, prompting them to release their eggs by bumping and nudging them. As the female goldfish spawns her eggs, the male goldfish stays close behind fertilizing them. Their eggs are adhesive and attach to aquatic vegetation. The eggs hatch within 48 to 72 hours. Within a week or so, the fry begins to assume its final shape, although a year may pass before they develop a mature goldfish colour; until then they are a metallic brown like their wild ancestors. In their first weeks of life, the fry grow quickly—an adaptation born of the high risk of getting devoured by the adult goldfish.\n\n\nA member of the Cyprinidae, carp spawn in times between April and August, largely dependent upon the climate and conditions they live in. Oxygen levels of the water, availability of food, size of each fish, age, number of times the fish has spawned before and water temperature are all factors known to effect when and how many eggs each carp will spawn at any one time.\n\nPrior to spawning, male Siamese fighting fish build bubble nests of varying sizes at the surface of the water. When a male becomes interested in a female, he will flare his gills, twist his body, and spread his fins. The female darkens in colour and curves her body back and forth. The act of spawning takes place in a \"nuptial embrace\" where the male wraps his body around the female, each embrace resulting in the release of 10-40 eggs until the female is exhausted of eggs. The male, from his side, releases milt into the water and fertilization takes place externally. During and after spawning, the male uses his mouth to retrieve sinking eggs and deposit them in the bubble nest (during mating the female sometimes assists her partner, but more often she will simply devour all the eggs that she manages to catch). Once the female has released all of her eggs, she is chased away from the male's territory, as it is likely that she'll eat the eggs due to hunger. The eggs then remain in the male's care. He keeps them in the bubble nest, making sure none fall to the bottom and repairing the nest as needed. Incubation lasts for 24–36 hours, and the newly hatched larvae remain in the nest for the next 2–3 days, until their yolk sacs are fully absorbed. Afterwards the fry leave the nest and the free-swimming stage begins.\n\n"}
{"id": "2063372", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2063372", "title": "Florida Today", "text": "Florida Today\n\nFlorida Today is the major daily newspaper serving Brevard County, Florida. The Gannett corporation started the paper in 1966.\n\nIn addition to its regular daily publication, \"Florida Today\" publishes three weekly community newspapers which are tailored for the North, South and Central areas within Brevard County. Average daily circulation ($1.25/issue) of the main publication is 54,021, with Sunday circulation ($3.50/issue) 89,328 (2013). Circulation of the paper tends to be higher in the winter, lower in summer.\n\nGannett's \"Florida Today\", initially simply TODAY, was built at the \"Cocoa Tribune\", to compete with the regional and dominant \"Orlando Sentinel\" and the statewide \"Miami Herald\". When Gannett (Gannett Florida) acquired the Cocoa newspaper, it also acquired the \"Titusville Star-Advocate\" in the county seat to the north, and the tabloid weekly \"Eau Gallie Courier\", the latter published from the Cocoa facility. They acquired the \"Melbourne Daily Times\" in 1970.\n\nIn order to guarantee advertisers a minimum circulation, Gannett delivered papers at no cost to all residences in Brevard County for the first two weeks of the newspaper's life; publication began on March 21, 1966. It continued this free circulation promotion to specific parts of the county until its circulation met the minimum set for the advertisers.\n\nBoth the Titusville and Melbourne papers maintained their independence and continued to be printed at each publication's own facility.\n\nA teen section \"The Verge\" was \"by, for and about teens.\" The section was composed by 40 students, as long as they were under 20 (most were in local high schools, but a few attended the local Brevard Community College). The section had regular articles in rotation such as Generation Gaps, where teens and someone from an earlier generation (parent, teacher, coach, etc.) wrote opposing views to a topic. The section began expanding into other parts of the paper and throughout the week. It was originally published on the back of Sunday's People section.\n\nAt a 2006 conference, \"The Verge\" won two national awards: First and Second Place for Best News Story. In May 2007, it was announced that \"The Verge\" would be integrated with the paper, rather than have its own section.\n\n\"Florida Today\" owned the weekly \"Central Florida Future\", originally the University of Central Florida school newspaper along with www.centralfloridafuture.com. It was distributed free of charge on campus as well as through several nearby businesses. The Future was shut down in July 2016.\n\nThe paper publishes annual business segment magazine directories including Health Source, a medical provider directory and Legal Source, a directory of legal service providers. The newspaper website along with local news, includes coverage of space, travel, health, entertainment, weather, sports and coverage of youth sports.\n\nThe paper was cited in 2003, 2004, 2005, 2006, 2007 and 2009 as a Gold Medal Newspaper for overall excellence by Gannett Co.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2063383", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2063383", "title": "Right to Buy", "text": "Right to Buy\n\nThe Right to Buy scheme is a policy in the United Kingdom (with the exception of Scotland since 1 August 2016 and Wales from 26 Jan 2019) which gives secure tenants of councils and some housing associations the legal right to buy, at a large discount, the council house they are living in. There is also a Right to Acquire for assured tenants of housing association dwellings built with public subsidy after 1997, at a smaller discount. By 1997 over 1,700,000 dwellings in the UK had been sold under the scheme since its introduction in 1980, with the scheme being cited as one of the major factors in the drastic reduction in the amount of social housing in the UK, which has fallen from nearly 6.5 million units in 1979 to roughly 2 million units in 2017, while also being credited as the main driver of the 15% rise in home ownership, which rose from 55% of householders in 1979 to a peak of 71% in 2003 (this figure has declined since the late 2000s to 63% in 2017 [this figure excludes Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland]).\n\nSupporters claim that the programme has given millions of households a tangible asset, secured their families' finances and—by releasing cash to repay local authority debt—helped improve the public finances. Critics claim that the policy compounded a housing shortage for people of low income, initiated a national house price bubble, and led ultimately to what is commonly recognised as the displacement and gentrification of traditional communities.\n\nLocal authorities had had the ability to sell council houses to their tenants since the Housing Act 1936, but until the early 1970s such sales were limited: between 1957 and 1964 some 16,000 council houses were sold in England. The Labour Party initially proposed the idea of the right of tenants to own the house they live in, in their manifesto for the 1959 general election which they lost. In 1968 a circular was issued limiting sales in cities, but withdrawn by an incoming Conservative Government in 1970. \n\nThe Conservative Greater London Council (GLC) in the late 1960s was persuaded by Horace Cutler, its Chairman of Housing, to create a general sales scheme. Cutler disagreed with the principle of local authorities as providers of housing, and supported a free-market approach. GLC housing sales were not allowed during the Labour administration of the mid-1970s, but picked up again once Cutler became Leader in 1977. They proved extremely popular. Cutler was close to Margaret Thatcher (MP for Finchley) who made the right to buy council housing a Conservative Party policy nationally. The policy was largely in place for the 1974 Conservative manifesto, but did not prove an asset in the two general elections that year because of high interest and mortgage repayment rates, as well as the growth of negative equity as house prices fell.\n\nIn the meantime, council house sales to tenants began to increase. Some 7,000 were sold to their tenants during 1970; this soared to more than 45,000 in 1972.\n\nAfter Margaret Thatcher became Prime Minister in May 1979, the legislation to implement the Right to Buy was passed in the Housing Act 1980. Michael Heseltine, in his role as Secretary of State for the Environment, was in charge of implementing the legislation. Some 6,000,000 people were affected; about one in three actually purchased their housing unit. Heseltine noted that \"no single piece of legislation has enabled the transfer of so much capital wealth from the state to the people\". He said the right to buy had two main objectives: to give people what they wanted, and to reverse the trend of ever-increasing dominance of the state over the life of the individual.\n\nHe said: \"There is in this country a deeply ingrained desire for home ownership. The Government believe that this spirit should be fostered. It reflects the wishes of the people, ensures the wide spread of wealth through society, encourages a personal desire to improve and modernise one's own home, enables parents to accrue wealth for their children and stimulates the attitudes of independence and self-reliance that are the bedrock of a free society.\"\n\nThe sale price of a council house was based on its market valuation, discounted initially by between 33% and 50% (up to 70% for council flats), which was said to reflect the rents paid by tenants and also to encourage take-up; the maximum discount was raised to 60% in 1984 and 70% in 1986. By 1988, the average discount that had by then so far actually been given was 44%.. The local authority was obliged to offer a mortgage, with no deposit. The discount depended on how long tenants had been living in the house, with the proviso that if they subsequently sold their house within a minimum period they would have to pay back a proportion of the discount. The sales were an attractive deal for tenants; hundreds of thousands of homes were sold. The policy became one of the major points of Thatcherism.\n\nThe policy proved immediately popular. Some local Labour-controlled councils were opposed, but the legislation prevented them from blocking purchases, and enabled them to redeem debt. Sales were much higher in the south and east of England than in inner London and northern England. Sales were restricted to general-needs housing; adapted properties and those built specifically for older people were exempted from the scheme.\n\nHalf the proceeds of the sales were paid to the local authorities, but the government restricted authorities' use of most of the money to reducing their debt until it was cleared, rather than spending it on building more homes. The effect was to reduce the council housing stock, especially in areas where property prices were high, such as London and the south-east of England.\n\n200,000 council houses were sold to their tenants in 1982. By 1987, more than 1,000,000 council houses in the UK had been sold to their tenants, although the number of council houses purchased by tenants declined during the 1990s.\n\nThe Labour Party was initially against the sales, and pledged to oppose them at the 1983 general election, but then dropped its official opposition to the scheme in 1985. However, at the 1987 general election, the Conservative government warned voters that a Labour government would still abolish the scheme.\n\nWhen Labour returned to power at the 1997 general election, it reduced the discount available to tenants in local authorities which had severe pressure on their housing stock; this included almost the whole of London.\n\nThe Right to Buy rules were changed in 2005. Five years' tenancy was now required for new tenants to qualify, and properties purchased after January 2005 could no longer immediately be placed on the open market should the owner decide to sell. Such owners now had to approach their previous landlord (council or housing association) and offer them the right of first refusal. If the previous landlord was no longer in existence, for example in cases where the former landlord was a registered social landlord that has ceased business, then the property had to first be offered to the local housing authority.\n\nThe time in which a Right to Buy conveyance should take place was reduced from 12 months to 3 months. The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) now governed and regulated most types of mortgage-selling.\n\nThe FCA's governance of Right to Buy purchases was partly to solve the widespread problem of Right to Buy mis-selling from brokers and solicitors alike. Each had their own agenda and many were charging excessive fees which were then taken out of their client's discount. The above actions that have been taken coupled with the end of the boom period seem to have brought this problem under control.\n\nIn 2009, the Localis think tank suggested, as part of a review of principles for social housing reform, that the right to buy should be extended into equity slivers, which could be part-earned through being a good tenant.\n\nThe qualifying period changed from 5 years to 3 years in 2018.\n\nAt the 2011 Conservative Party Conference, David Cameron proposed to increase Right to Buy discounts in order to revitalise the housing market and generate receipts which could be spent on new housing. Social housing professionals expressed concerns over the proposal.\n\nAs of 2 April 2012, the Right to Buy discount was increased to a maximum of £75,000 or 60% of the house value (70% for a flat) depending on which is lower. In March 2013, the maximum discount in London was increased to £100,000.\n\nThe maximum amount of discount changes annually wef April 2017 it changed to £78,600.00 (edited 2018 rbc dd3117)\n\nThe maximum right to buy discount increases each financial year in line with CPI as at the previous September (see separate document from the Right to Buy Team, Ministry of Housing, Communities and Local Government.\n\nAs the CPI in September 2017 was 3% the new maximum discounts for Redditch in respect of the financial year 2018/19 will be £80,900 and applies to all applications made by the tenant on or after 6 April 2018. Any applications made before then are processed using the current discounts (£78,600). In summary discount is a maximum of £80,900.00 from April 2018 (rbcdd3117)\n\nThe aim of the scheme is, for every additional home sold, a new home will be built for 'affordable rent' at up to 80% of market rent, aimed at maintaining the level of affordable housing while also increasing the number of properties available for those on the waiting list. The five year tenancy criterion will remain, and should the property be sold within the first five years of the original sale, part or all of the discount will be required to be paid back.\n\nThe Housing and Planning Bill 2016 will if enacted extend right-to-buy to housing association tenants.\n\nIn July 2013, the Scottish Government confirmed that Right to Buy would be abolished in Scotland from 2017. It was in the end abolished as a part of the Housing (Scotland) Act 2014 from 1 August 2016.\n\nIn the summer of 2017, the Welsh Government proposed a law to abolish Right to Buy in Wales. This law was passed by the Welsh Assembly in December 2017, and the scheme will effectively end on 26 January 2019.\n\nThe Right to Buy scheme has been criticised for the following reasons:\n\nA report published in January 2013 by London Assembly member Tom Copley, From Right to Buy to Buy to Let, showed that 36% of homes sold under Right to Buy in London (52,000 homes) were being rented by councils from private landlords, leading to criticisms that the scheme \"represents incredibly poor value for money to taxpayers\" since it \"helped to fuel the increase in the housing benefit bill, heaped more pressure on local authority waiting lists and led to more Londoners being forced into the under-regulated private rented sector\".\nA survey in 2013 showed around one third of Right to Buy houses were now owned by private landlords, while the son of the late Ian Gow (Thatcher's housing minister) owned some 40 houses.\n\nIn 2015, Alan Murie concluded that \"the proposed extension of right-to-buy could not easily be reconciled with the independence and charitable status of housing associations\", and that \"extending the right-to-buy to housing association tenants revived a previous Parliamentary debate and raised questions about the legal position of charities and the risks faced by housing associations and their funders\".\n\nA 2017 BBC survey of council areas where waiting lists were rising showed the councils had bought back houses they had been forced to sell, sometimes at many times the original price. Housing charities criticised the lack of investment in affordable housing.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2063394", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2063394", "title": "Football in Argentina", "text": "Football in Argentina\n\nAssociation football is the most popular sport in the Argentine Republic and part of the culture in Argentina. It is the one with the most players (2,658,811 total, 331,811 of which are registered and 2,327,000 unregistered; with 3,377 clubs and 37,161 officials, all according to FIFA) and is the most popular recreational sport, played from childhood into old age. The percentage of Argentines that declare allegiance to an Argentine football club is about 90%.\n\nFootball was introduced to Argentina in the later half of the 19th century by the British immigrants in Buenos Aires. The first Argentine league was contested in 1891, making it the fifth-oldest recognised league of a FIFA member (after England, Scotland, Northern Ireland and the Netherlands). The Argentine Football Association (AFA) was formed in 1893 and is the eighth-oldest in the world.\n\nThe Argentina national team is one of the eight to have won the FIFA World Cup, having done so in 1978 and 1986, and also being runner-up in 1930, 1990 and 2014. Argentina has also won the top continental tournament, the Copa América, 14 times, and the FIFA Confederations Cup in 1992. The nation's Olympic representative has won two Gold Medals (in 2004 and 2008), while the under-20 team has won a record six U-20 World Cups. At club level, Argentine teams have won the most Intercontinental Cups (9) and the most Copa Libertadores (25).\n\nWomen's football has a national league since 1991, the Campeonato de Fútbol Femenino. In turn, the female national representative qualified for the World Cup for the first time in 2007 and won their first Campeonato Sudamericano Femenino (top continental competition) in 2006.\n\nIn futsal, Argentina were FIFUSA/AMF Futsal World Cup champions in 1994 and 2019. They also compete in the FIFA code of futsal, where they finished champions in 2016 and fourth place in 2004. The team also won the FIFA Futsal Copa América in 2003 and 2015. Moreover, Argentina was world champion in futsal for the visually impaired in 2002 and 2006, and also won the Gold Medal at the IBSA World Blind Games 2015, a Silver Medal (2004) and two Bronze (2008 and 2016) in the Paralympic Games, three runner-up world championships (1998, 2000 and 2014), three championships of the Copa América (1999, 2005, 2017), three Silver Medals in the Parapan American Games (2007, 2011, 2015) and two runners-up of the Copa América (2009 and 2013).\n\nArgentina also compete in the beach football World Cup, where their best finish was third in 2001.\n\nBy 1867, there was a large British community in Buenos Aires who had arrived fresh from establishing their aforementioned, and slightly fictitious, \"Great British\" league (see introduction) (which according to most other accounts was two leagues; a Scottish league and an English league, which would make the Argentine the fourth-oldest, but for the sake of this article we will say it was just one.) Most of them had established themselves in Argentina coming from the United Kingdom as managers and workers of the British-owned railway companies that operated in Argentina. British citizens founded social and sports clubs where they could practise their sports, such as bowls, cricket, football, golf, horse riding, rugby union and tennis amongst others.\nTwo English immigrants, Thomas and James Hogg, organized a meeting on 9 May 1867 in Buenos Aires where the Buenos Aires Football Club was founded. The club was given permission by the Buenos Aires Cricket Club to make use of the cricket field in Parque Tres de Febrero, Palermo, Buenos Aires, on the site now occupied by the Galileo Galilei planetarium. The first recorded football match in Argentina took place on this pitch on 20 June 1867, being covered by English language daily newspaper \"The Standard\". This newspaper, published in Argentina, was the first one to cover football matches in the country.\n\nThe match was played between two teams of British merchants, the White Caps and the Red Caps. (In the 19th century, it was common practice for teams to be distinguished by caps rather than shirts.) The teams consisted of eight players each as the organisers were unable to find more players for the match. The line-ups were: Thomas Hogg, James Hogg, William Forrester, T. B. Smith, J. W. Bond, E. S. Smith, J. Rabsbottom and N. H. Smith (one team); William Heald, T. R. Best, U. Smith, H. J. Barge, H. Willmont, R. M. Ramsay, J. Simpson and W. Boschetti (second team). The team led by Hogg won 4–0, according to \"The Standard\" newspaper published on June 23. The match played was a blend of both association and rugby footballs, with no goals on the field. The use of hands was also allowed.\n\nThe first chronicle of a football match written in Spanish was published by local newspaper \"El Nacional\" on September 11, 1880. The chronicle referred to a \"\"foot-ball\"\" match played in a cricket field in Montevideo between an Uruguayan-Argentine combined vs a British team. The attendance was estimated in 1,000 people. Nevertheless, it is unclear what form of \"football\" was played due to the number of players on the field (15 per side).\nThe \"Southern Railway Athletic Club\" (not related with the British railway company) might have been the first organised team under the \"Association\" rules, according to \"The Standard\", that published a chronicle describing the existence of that team, with records of a match played at Lanús A.C. field in 1888. The chronicle also named Alexander Watson Hutton as one of the GSRFC players. The early matches of the team, in fact, were against Buenos Aires English High School.\n\nThe so-called \"father of Argentine football\" was a Glaswegian schoolteacher Alexander Watson Hutton, who first taught football at St Andrew's School in Buenos Aires in the early 1880s. On 4 February 1884, he founded the Buenos Aires English High School, where he continued to instruct the pupils in the game. In 1891, the \"Association Argentine Football League\" was established by F.L. Wooley, with Alex Lamont of St. Andrew's Scots School as one of its members. The AAFL was the first football league outside of the British Isles. Five clubs competed but only one season was ever played.\n\nIn this early period, a number of football clubs were set up by the employees of the various British-owned railway companies in Argentina and a number of these teams have survived to the present day, including Ferro Carril Oeste, Ferrocarril Midland, Rosario Central and Talleres.\n\nA new league with the same name as its predecessor, was formed on 21 February 1893. It eventually became the Argentine Football Association (AFA). In these early days of football in Argentina, nearly all of the players and officials were expatriate Britons or of British extraction and the oldest football clubs in Argentina like Rosario Central, Newell's Old Boys and Quilmes were all founded by British expatriates.\nThe most successful and admired team of this early period was Alumni, founded by graduates and students of Watson Hutton's English High School. Like all of the early clubs, it was composed mainly of British players.\n\nTowards the end of the 19th century, the game became increasingly popular amongst other European immigrants, especially Italians.\n\nMost of the early clubs had a policy of excluding the local creole population. The backlash against this policy at Quilmes Athletic Club resulted in the formation of Argentino de Quilmes in 1899, the first of many Argentine clubs for Argentine players. The name Argentino or Argentinos has remained popular in Argentine football. The most famous team with the name is Argentinos Juniors who won the Copa Libertadores in 1985.\n\nBritish football clubs tours over South America contributed to the spread and develop of football in Argentina during the first years of the 20th century. The first club to tour on the country was Southampton F.C. in 1904, followed by several teams (mainly from England although some Scotland clubs also visited South America) until 1929 with Chelsea F.C. being the last team to tour.\n\nBritish teams were considered the best in the world by then, and some of them served as inspiration to establish football clubs in Argentina, helped by the immigration of British citizens that had arrived to worked for British companies (mostly in railway construction). Belgrano A.C., Rosario A.C., Alumni and Quilmes are some examples of clubs established by British immigrants to South America.\n\nThe early years of the 20th century saw a large number of new clubs formed; by 1907, there were over 300 teams in Argentina. Most of the major clubs were created around this period; they played in the national amateur tournament or in local championships. By this time, matches had a considerable attendance and as the popularity of the game increased the British influence on the game waned. In 1911, Alumni folded and by 1912 the Association was renamed in Spanish as the Asociación Argentina de Football, although the tradition of giving the clubs English names continued for many years.\n\nDuring the early 20th century, many new football leagues were started in cities across Argentina as the popularity of the game spread out from Greater Buenos Aires, these include Rosario (with the establishment of Liga Rosarina in 1905), Córdoba (1912), Santa Fe (1913), Tucumán (1919), San Luis (1920) and Salta (1921).\n\nAlthough the city of Rosario did not have an organised league, since 1900 the football squads of Rosario A.C. and Rosario Central had taken part of the first international tournament in South America, the Tie Cup, played by teams of Rosario, Buenos Aires and Uruguay leagues. Rosario A.C. became the first Rosarian team to win an international competition after winning the cup in 1902, defeating legendary Alumni 2–1 in the playoff match. The squad would win two cups else, in 1904 (beating Uruguayan CURCC 3–2) and 1905 (winning over CURCC again by 4–3) editions, totalling three championships in six years.\n\nTeams from Rosario had also participated in the first National Cups organised by the Argentine Football Association, such as Copa de Honor Municipalidad de Buenos Aires, (which Newell's Old Boys and Rosario Central would later win in 1911 and 1916 respectively)\n\nThe first official match played by the Argentina national team took place on 16 May 1901 against Uruguay, a 3–2 win for Argentina. This game marked the beginning of the Argentina and Uruguay football rivalry.\n\nThe first trophy won by Argentina was the Copa Lipton in 1905. They won their first tournament in 1910 (Copa Centenario de la Revolución de Mayo) which was contested between Argentina, Uruguay, Brazil and Chile.\n\nIn 1916, Argentina competed in the first Copa América which was won by Uruguay. Argentina would win the tournament for the first time in 1921, and have gone on to win it a total of 14 times.\n\nDuring the 1920s decade, Huracan was a strong competitor, winning most of the annual championships, as Racing Club did during the 1910s. To mention a tradition, the Huracán footballers and fans used to meet at the historical .\n\nIn 1928, Argentina Olympic football team competed at the 1928 Olympics in Amsterdam, where they finished runners-up to Uruguay. Two years later, they competed in the first FIFA World Cup, again finishing runners up to hosts Uruguay.\n\nFollowing two seasons of disrupted play due to mass cancellation and suspension of matches and the mid-season withdrawal of teams in the 1929, and 1930, 18 teams decided to form a breakaway professional league for the 1931 season. The amateur league carried on in parallel until it folded in 1934 with many of the teams joining the new professional second division The creation of the professional league helped curb the exodus of Argentine talent to high paying European football clubs. The 1934 World Cup Italy national team championship side featured several \"Oriundo\" in the squad composed of Argentine-born players such as Raimundo Orsi, Enrique Guaita, and Luis Monti who also played for Argentina in the 1930 World Cup.\n\nIn 1964, Independiente became the first Argentine club to win the Copa Libertadores, Argentine clubs have won the competition a total of 25 times; Brazilian clubs have the second-most, with 18.\n\nIn 1967, Racing became the first Argentine team to win the Intercontinental Cup. Argentine clubs have won the tournament a record nine times.\n\nIn 1978, Argentina hosted the World Cup, where the team defeated the Netherlands 3–1 after extra time in the final to win their first World Cup. Argentina would win their second World Cup in the 1986 edition.\n\nIn 1979, a young Diego Maradona was part of the Argentina under-20 team which won the FIFA Under-20 World Cup. Argentina have gone on to win a record six U-20 World Cups.\n\nIn 1982, due to an uncertain political atmosphere and an extremely unstable government with multiple presidents over the span of a short time, most football clubs were lacking the money to keep top domestic players. 1982 saw a whole slew of players leave Argentina for Europe: players like Diego Maradona, Mario Kempes (who had already played in Spain and had briefly returned to Argentina), Daniel Passarella and many others leave for Spain, France, Italy or England.\n\nIn 1995, Rosario Central became the first club not based in Buenos Aires or Greater Buenos Aires to win an international cup recognised by FIFA, the CONMEBOL Cup. Argentine clubs have won the tournament a record three times.\n\nIn 2004, the Argentina Olympic football team won Gold at the Athens Olympic games; they defended their title in 2008 to become the first team to defend the Olympic football title since Hungary in 1968.\n\nAround 326 registered football clubs play in the Argentine Football Association (AFA) league system, which is organized in a pyramid of seven leagues, divided into the third level between and . In the branch of clubs indirectly affiliates to AFA below the fourth level, there are 250 other Regional Leagues that are affiliated with AFA and compete for the right to enter the league system at the lowest tier.\n\nThe Primera División is the highest level of club football in Argentina. It was founded in 1891 as an amateur competition, becoming professional in 1931 with a league by 18 teams which were dissatisfied with the amateur system they were participating on until 1930. This group of 18 founding members of the present league included nearly all of the most prominent clubs of those times, unified by the idea that full and compulsory amateurism was no longer sustainable (many of those teams are still today among the most popular clubs in Argentina). For many years, the only winners were the so-called \"big five\" (Boca Juniors, Independiente, Racing Club, River Plate and San Lorenzo de Almagro). This dominance was finally broken in 1967 by Estudiantes de La Plata. Since then, ten other teams have won the championship, resulting in a total of 28 teams having been champions of Argentina as of 2019. River Plate has won the most championships with 36. The only teams outside the Buenos Aires and Greater Buenos Aires to have won the championship are Rosario Central and Newell's Old Boys from Rosario, Estudiantes and Gimnasia y Esgrima from La Plata.\n\nBelow the second division, Primera Nacional, the league system is regionalized with three divisions for of Buenos Aires, Greater Buenos Aires and twenty clubs from the cities of Rosario, Santa Fe, La Plata, Zarate, Campana, Luján, Junín, General Rodríguez, Cañuelas and Pilar, and two divisions for that cover the so-called \"Interior\" (the rest of the country). Even below these seven leagues, Argentine football is regionalized into almost 250 Regional Leagues, which consist of teams that participate in championships and tournaments organized by the (CFFA), internal organ of the Argentine Football Association (AFA), to obtain the right to enter the , established in 2018.\n\nThe Primera División has been using different formats for its championships, from a double round-robin tournament (1891 to 1966) to a single round-robin that would become the standard in Latin America, the Apertura and Clausura. In the particular case of Argentina, the Apertura was contested in the second half of the calendar year, and the Clausura was played in the first half of the following year (in order to synchronize the seasons with those of the European football). Different formats used also included the organization of Metropolitano and Nacional championships, that lasted from 1967 to 1985.\n\nAs of 2019–20 season, the Argentine Primera División league is made up of 24 teams, with a championship organized in a single round-robin schedule, resulting in a total of 23 rounds per team. Six teams from Argentina are eligible to play the Copa Libertadores, four from the league championship and the rest from the Copa Argentina and Copa de la Superliga.\n\nFrom 1891 to date, River Plate is the most winning team with 36 domestic championships, followed by Boca Juniors with 34 titles. Racing Club holds the third position with 18 titles.\n\nSince the creation of the first league in 1891, several cups have been played in Argentine apart from the main competition, the Primera División. The first cup held in the country was the Copa de Honor Municipalidad de Buenos Aires; first contested in 1905, it was played until 1936.\n\nAs of the present, four domestic cups are held in Argentina: the Copa Argentina, that includes teams of all divisions of Argentine football, and the Supercopa Argentina –contested by the reigning champions of Primera División and Copa Argentina, organised by the AFA. The third one is Copa de la Superliga Argentina, organised by the Superliga Argentina body. The Trofeo de Campeones is the fourth official cup organized by the Superliga Argentina. The annual football match was played for the first time in 2019, being played by the champions of Primera División and Copa de la Superliga Argentina respectively\n\nThe Copa Campeonato, originally awarded to Primera División champion, is the oldest trophy of Argentine football, having been established in 1896, three year after the AFA was created, and played without interruption until 1926. The Cup received several names, such as \"Championship Cup\", \"Copa Campeonato\", \"Challenge Cup\" and \"Copa Alumni\", due to the association offered legendary team Alumni to keep the Cup definitely for having won it three consecutive times (1900–02), but the club from Belgrano declined the honour to keep the trophy under dispute.\n\nAll those competitions, although not considered league tournaments, are regarded as official titles.\n\nThere are many local rivalries in Argentine football. The most important is the superderby, which is contested between Argentina's two most popular and successful teams, Buenos Aires rivals River Plate and Boca Juniors. The English newspaper \"The Observer\" put the \"superclásico\" (name in Spanish) at the top of their list of \"The 50 Sporting Things You Must Do Before You Die\".\n\nThe second-most important rivalry in Argentine football is the Avellaneda derby, which is contested between Independiente and Racing, the third- and fourth-most popular and third- and fourth-most successful teams of the country (respectively), both from the city of Avellaneda (located next to Buenos Aires, into it metropolitan area). Other important derbies include the derby between Huracán and San Lorenzo de Almagro (has no particular denomination), the Rosarian derby (between Newell's Old Boys and Rosario Central), the \"Platense\" derby (between Estudiantes de La Plata and Gimnasia y Esgrima La Plata), the West derby (between Ferro Carril Oeste and Vélez Sarsfield), the derby between Atlanta and Chacarita Juniors (formerly denominated \"Villa Crespo derby\"), the \"Santafesino\" derby (between Colón and Unión), the North Zone derby (between Platense and Tigre), the Cordovan derby (between Belgrano and Talleres), the derby between Instituto and Racing de Córdoba (has no particular denomination) and the \"Tucumanian\" derby (between San Martín and Tucumán).\n\nThe first international club competition was organized by both, Argentine and Uruguayan associations, with the establishment of Tie Cup or \"Copa de Competencia Chevallier Boutell\" in 1900. The tournament was held until 1919. Several competitions between teams from both countries followed, being the last the Copa Aldao, which last edition was played in 1955.\n\nThe most successful Argentine club on the international stage is Boca Juniors. The club has won a total of 22 international titles. Three of its wins are the Intercontinental Cup titles of 1977, 2000 and 2003.\n\nIndependiente has won the most important continental title on the most occasions, its seven Copa Libertadores titles is a record, as is its feat of winning the title on four consecutive occasions (1972–75). Also, Independiente was the most successful club on international cups by more than twenty years. These achievements earned them the nickname of \"Rey de Copas (King of Cups)\".\n\nA number of other Argentine clubs have won the Copa Libertadores, including Estudiantes de La Plata and River Plate (four times each; Estudiantes in 1968, 1969, 1970, 2009 and River Plate in 1986, 1996, 2015, 2018), Racing (1967), Argentinos Juniors (1985), Vélez Sarsfield (1994) and San Lorenzo (2014).\n\nSome Argentine teams have won international titles without having won a Primera División title, such as Talleres de Córdoba that won the Copa CONMEBOL in 1999 and Arsenal de Sarandí winning the Copa Sudamericana in 2007 (although the team then won a title, the 2012 Torneo Clausura).\n\nArgentine clubs have taken part of the following international club competitions:\n\nFootball plays an important part in the life of many Argentines. Even those supporters who usually do not attend the matches watch them on television and comment on them the next day with friends and co-workers. When the Argentina national football team plays (especially during world cup matches), streets tend to look completely deserted as everyone is watching the match. After the victories in 1978 FIFA World Cup and 1986 FIFA World Cup, streets were flooded with people celebrating the championship, making it impossible not to become part of the celebration.\n\nIt was in 1986 when the figure of Diego Maradona exploded, becoming an icon not only of Argentine football but of football itself. In Argentina, Maradona became something resemblant of a god (see Maradonian Church), admired by fans of every club (even River Plate).\n\nArgentine fans are not allowed to travel to see their teams in away matches, as they have been banned since 2013.\n\n\"Hinchas\" (supporters) create an emotional ambiance in many stadiums, singing and cheering loudly all game long, but since the away' fan ban due to violence, the atmosphere in many stadia has become poorer, with goals for away teams greeted by silence and the disappearance of \"round trip chants\" between home and away fans, that provoked in each side to sing louder for show more passion.\n\n\"Barra bravas\" (Argentine organized groups -like the English hooligan firms-) also create occasional problems, usually in riots after the match.\n\n"}
{"id": "2063402", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2063402", "title": "Valleyspeak", "text": "Valleyspeak\n\nValleyspeak or Valspeak is an American sociolect, originally of the San Fernando Valley in Southern California. It is associated with young, upper-middle-class white women called Valley girls, although elements of it have spread to other demographics, including men called \"Val dudes\". This sociolect became an international fad for a certain period in the 1980s and 1990s, with a peak period from around 1981 to 1985. According to the Los Angeles Almanac, Valleyspeak is often characterized by both the steady use of uptalk and its vocabulary. Many phrases and elements of Valleyspeak, along with surfer slang and skateboarding slang, have become stable elements of the California English dialect lexicon, and in some cases wider American English such as the widespread use of \"like\" as a discourse marker.\n\nDue to its place at the center of the entertainment industry, California is one of the main sources worldwide for new cultural and youth trends, including those of language. This lends itself to explicit language ideologies about dialects in the area as they receive more scrutiny than dialects in other nearby regions. Linguistic characteristics of \"valley girl\" or \"California\" speak are often thought to be \"silly\" and \"superficial\" and seen as a sign of low intelligence. Speakers are also often perceived as \"materialistic\" and \"air-headed\". The use of \"like\" or the quotative phrase \"be like\" are often ideologically linked to California and valley speak despite the now widespread use of the terms among youth, which results to them also receiving the \"superficial\" cast. In the national understanding, California speech is thought to be a product of the combination of valley girl and surfer dude speech, and \"is associated with good English, but never proper\".\n\nA study on regional language ideologies done in California in 2007 found that, despite its prevalence and association with California in past decades, Californians themselves do not consider \"valley girls\" to be an overly prevalent social or linguistic group within the state. State residents listed factors such as immigrant populations and North-South regional slang as more relevant than valley speak within the state.\n\nAmanda Ritchart, a doctoral candidate studying linguistics at the University of California San Diego, analyzed 23-year olds (college age students) from diverse socioeconomic backgrounds and ethnicities, specifically in the Southern California region. After this study, Ritchart once stated, \"Women used uptalk more frequently than men did. Their pitch rose higher overall, and the rise began much later in the phrase.\" Even though the gender difference is notable, the majority of both men and women speak in uptalk in Southern California. In fact, 100% of the participants used uptalk when they asked a confirming question, such as \"Go all the way to the right in the middle where it says Canyon Hills?\"\n\nAccording to the article \"\"What's Up With Upspeak?\"\", when women use valleyspeak, it is assumed that they have \"inferior speech\" patterns. For men, the high rise of intonation usually \"plateaued\" at certain points, especially in situations where they didn’t want to be interrupted.\n\nThe sound of Valleyspeak has these main habits: nasal sound; a duck quack sound; fast-paced run-on sentences; breathiness; uptalk, or the sound of a question; and vocal fry.\n\n\nValspeak and the term \"Valley Girl\" were given a wider circulation with the release of a hit 1982 single by Frank Zappa titled \"Valley Girl\", on which his fourteen-year-old daughter Moon Zappa delivered a monologue in \"Valleyspeak\" behind the music. This song popularized phrases such as \"grody to the max\" and \"gag me with a spoon\". It also popularized the use of the term \"like\" as a discourse marker, though it did not originate in Valleyspeak.\n\nAn early appearance of Valleyspeak and the Valley Girl stereotype was through the character of Jennifer DiNuccio, played by Tracy Nelson in the 1982–1983 sitcom \"Square Pegs\". According to an interview with Nelson included on the 2008 DVD release of the series, she developed the character's Valleyspeak and personality prior to the Zappa recording becoming popular.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2063411", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2063411", "title": "Bacacay", "text": "Bacacay\n\n', officially the ', ( and ), is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people. Bacacay is primarily an agricultural town and abundant in seafood.\n\nAccording to the Philippine Statistics Authority, the has a land area of constituting of the total area of Albay.\n\nBacacay is politically subdivided into 56 barangays.\n\nIn the , Bacacay had a population of . The population density was .\n\nBacacay features caves and beaches, and is visited especially at summer. Beach resorts within the town include the Kuron-Kuron Beach Resort, Viento de Mar Beach Resort, VRT (Tanchuling) Beach Resort, Michaelangelus Beach Resort, and the Misibis Bay Resort.\n\nBacacay has 41 elementary schools and 7 secondary schools directly supervised by Department of Education-Division of Albay.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2063412", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2063412", "title": "Camalig", "text": "Camalig\n\n', officially the ' (; ), is a in the province of , . According to the , it had a population of people. It is known for one of Bicol's finest delicacy, Pinangat.\n\nIn 1952, there was a mass conversion of certain \"sitio\"s into \"barrio\"s (now barangays), namely: Anoling, Binanderahan, Cabraran Pequeño, Cabangan, Ilawod, Mabugna, Magogon, Quinuartilan, Solong, and Sumlang.\n\nAccording to the Philippine Statistics Authority, the has a land area of constituting of the total area of Albay.\n\nCamalig is politically subdivided into 50 barangays.\n\nIn the , Camalig had a population of . The population density was .\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2063414", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2063414", "title": "Daraga, Albay", "text": "Daraga, Albay\n\n', officially the ', (; ), is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nThe town is home to the landmark Cagsawa Ruins.\n\nThe word \"daraga\" historically referred to a \"maiden\", and is the modern term for an \"unmarried woman\" in many of the Bikol languages. The original settlement of Daraga dates back to 12th century, but has changed location repeatedly due to the constant threats posed by Mayon Volcano. The town was previously named \"Budiao\", \"Cagsawa\", and \"Locsin\".\n\nDaraga is located at , in the south-west portion of Albay province, along the Maharlika Highway, making it accessible from Manila, the Visayas, and the other municipalities of eastern Bicol Peninsula. It is roughly \"boot-shaped\", with the \"tall\" part ranging 13.05–13.25° north latitude and 123.66–123.73° east longitude and the \"wide\" part ranging 13.02–13.09° north latitude and 123.56–123.71° east longitude. It is bounded on the north and east by Legazpi City, south by Sorsogon (particularly the municipality of Pilar), and west by Camalig and Jovellar.\n\nAccording to the Philippine Statistics Authority, the has a land area of constituting of the total area of Albay. This municipal land area is distributed among the present 16 urban barangays and 42 rural barangays. The urban barangays total (12.65%) and the rural barangays make up the remaining (87.35%) of the total municipal land area.\n\n67.3% of the total municipal land area has a predominantly low elevation of up to . The surface terrain is generally characterized by combination of level to nearly level areas, gentle to undulating areas and undulating to rolling areas.\n\nThe different soil types to be found within Daraga are the Mayon Gravelly Sandy Loam, Annam Clay Loam, Gravelly Sandy Loam, Legazpi Fine Sandy Loam (Stoney Phase), Sevilla Clay Loam and Sevilla Clay.\n\nThe underlying geology are made up of several types: Alluvium, Shale and Sandstone Limestone and Basalt and Andesite Series. The prevalent geologic type is the Shale and Sandstone Sequence and other equally significant geologic types such as alluvium. Recent Volcanic, Crystalline Limestone and Psyroclastine Limestone are found near the base of Mayon Volcano mostly in the urban barangays.\n\nMinerals available within the municipality of Daraga are non-metallic consisting of Gravel, and Boulders. These minerals are abundant in Barangays Budiao, Busay, Bañadero and Matnog brought down from the slopes of Mayon Volcano during occurrences of volcanic eruptions and rains.\n\nThe surface drainage pattern of Daraga is largely affected by the water runoff coming from Mayon Volcano coupled with those from other directions. Major river systems which convey and act as natural drainage channels as well as water source include:\n\n\nDaraga has a generally wet climate characterized by a lack of dry season. Maximum rainfall is from November to January, and average monthly rainfall is . Prevailing winds are generally from north-east to south-west. Average temperature is .\n\nBut the climate change phenomenon has changed the past climate pattern. Dry spells are becoming more pronounced, as it is with the wet season. The phenomenon is felt all over the country as well.\n\nDaraga is politically subdivided into 54 barangays.\n\nIn the , Daraga had a population of . The population density was .\n\nIn 2010, the 2010 municipal population of 115,804 was distributed among the urban and rural Barangays. The urban population was 48.54% while rural population completed the remaining 51.45%. The \"built-up density\" was 5,659 persons/km. It had a literacy rate of 96.08% and a municipality growth rate of 1.3%.\n\nIn terms of employment and livelihood, farming ranks high at 33.53%, crafts and related workers as well as elementary occupations follow second with 17.71% and 21.89% respectively.\n\nThe languages spoken in Daraga include East Miraya (Daragueño), Bicol, Tagalog, and English.\n\nDaraga's economy, originally agriculture-based, has rapidly transformed into an emerging urban system, benefiting from the economic opportunities of being located contiguously with the urban center of Legazpi. It draws trade relations with the island province of Masbate through the nearby Port of Pilar.\n\nDaraga will be the site of the future Bicol International Airport which will further boost tourism in the region and will introduce more opportunities especially in this town. Local officials are now considering cityhood in the near future or upon the completion of the said international airport, if that so, Daraga would be the fourth city in Albay.\n\nDaraga has the highest number of business establishments among towns in Albay. As of 2011 it has over 2,300 business establishments registered with the Permits and Licensing Office. The town is a center of handicraft manufacturing with several handicraft factories choosing their location in the municipality.\n\nThe present town mayor is Victor U. Perete.\n\nDaraga's existing tourist spots/attractions are the Cagsawa Ruins and Resort and Our Lady of the Gate Parish.\n\nCagsawa Ruins and Resort is located in Barangay Busay. Its prominent attraction is the Belfry of the Cagsawa Church which submerged in mudflow during the February 2, 1814 Mayon Volcano Eruption which killed 1,200 people.\n\nThe Our Lady of the Gate Parish was constructed in 1773 atop Santa Maria Hill in barangay San Roque and is uniquely known for its rich baroque architecture.\n\nDaraga has a total Road Network of about . This is categorized either as National Roads, Provincial Roads, Municipal Roads and Barangay Roads. These barangay Roads comprised the bulk of the municipality road network system. About 24.97% are concrete paved while the remaining 75.03% remains in Asphalt, Gravel of Earth fill pavement conditions. These are about 25 bridges within the municipality and 66.22% of which are within barangay roads while the other bridges are part of national, provincial of barangay roads.\n\nEach barangay in town has an elementary school.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2063415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2063415", "title": "Catherine Howard, Countess of Suffolk", "text": "Catherine Howard, Countess of Suffolk\n\nCatherine (or Katherine) Howard, Countess of Suffolk (1564–1638), was an English court office holder. She served as lady-in-waiting to the queen consort of England, Anne of Denmark. She was born in Charlton Park, Wiltshire, the oldest child of Sir Henry Knyvet and his wife Elizabeth Stumpe. Her uncle was Sir Thomas Knyvet, who foiled the gunpowder plot.\nEarly in her life, she married Richard Rich, son of Robert Rich, 2nd Baron Rich, and grandson of Richard Rich, 1st Baron Rich. After his death in 1580 she then married Sir Thomas Howard, who twenty years later was named the Earl of Suffolk.\n\nOn the death of her father in 1598 she inherited Charlton Park, Wiltshire, which thereafter became the seat of the Earls of Suffolk.\n\nHoward gained a place in Queen Elizabeth's bedchamber and the title of Keeper of the Jewels in 1599. This honour went further as she was also granted authority over the lodgings where Queen Anne gave birth to the princess. In fact, she was in such a position of high esteem within the court, she would have been given the honour of godmother to Princess Sophia born of Queen Anne if the child had not perished. She danced in two of the queen's masques, one of which was written by Ben Jonson, titled The Masque of Blackness. King James wanted the actors to look African so the actors painted their faces black. In 1611, the poet Emilia Lanier chose to dedicate her poem \"Salve Deus Rex Judaeorum\" to her.\n\nHoward strived with some success to gain rank in court but proved to be corrupt. She served as a liaison between Spain and Salisbury, and demanded bribes for doing so. Sir Thomas Howard was appointed Lord Treasurer, which allowed her more opportunity for financial gain. Howard was known to be very beautiful in her younger years, and during her time at court had many suitors and a string of alleged love affairs, using the position her husband achieved in the government to extort kickbacks from her lovers. However, in 1619, at the age of 55, she was the victim of an attack of smallpox \"which spoiled that good face of hers, which had brought to other much misery and to herself greatness which ended with much unhappiness.\" Many of the details of her corruption came out in the Suffolk's trial in the same year, where Sir John Finet alleged \"to be spared a bond of £500, a citizen gave £83 and a sable muff to the countess\".\n\nThe Countess was ultimately caught and, as a result of her treachery, she and her family were banned from court. Peers generally sympathised with Sir Thomas for being caught in her web of corruption, and she endured the brunt of the blame for the Howards' fall from grace. After being expelled from court, she continued to write letters on behalf of others seeking court positions.\n\nHoward had fourteen children:\n"}
{"id": "2063420", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2063420", "title": "Matthew 4:16", "text": "Matthew 4:16\n\nMatthew 4:16 is the sixteenth verse of the fourth chapter of the Gospel of Matthew in the New Testament. In the previous verses Jesus returned to Galilee after hearing of the arrest of John the Baptist and then left Nazareth for Capernaum. This verse contains the second half of a quote from the Book of Isaiah, implying that these movements were preordained by scripture.\n\nThe original Koine Greek, according to Westcott and Hort, reads:\n\nIn the King James Version of the Bible the text reads:\n\nThe World English Bible translates the passage as:\n\nFor a collection of other versions see BibleHub Matthew 4:16\n\nThis verse is based on in the Old Testament. This verse refers to the lands of Zebulun and of Naphtali mentioned in the previous verse, and where Jesus has chosen to reside according to . The verse is referring to the Assyrian invasion of Northern Israel and predicting that after this dark period a new light would shine. Matthew implies that this is the messiah, France notes that the traditional view was that Isaiah was referring to events immediately after the departure of the Assyrians. Carter, who has advanced the thesis that much of Matthew is a prediction of the destruction of the Roman Empire, sees this verse as political in nature with the conquering Assyrians an allegory for the current Roman domination of the region.\n\nAlbright and Mann note that in Greek this verse contains elements of three different versions of the Septuagint. It was long thought to be a composite of these various translations, but it could also be taken from a lost version of the LXX. This is a more accurate copy of the LXX than the previous verse, but there are still some important changes. Albright and Mann note that the author of Matthew puts the verse in the past tense so that it fits better with his narrative. Hill state that Matthew also changes the word \"shone\" to \"dawned\". Hill argues that this change was made to fit with Matthew's portrayal of the dawning of the new messiah rather than the continuous shining of God. Shedinger notes that the LXX has the people walking while Matthew has them sitting. Stendahl argues that this was done to more closely link the verse to the set geographical locals mentioned in .\n\nShedinger rejects the traditional view that Matthew 4:16 is merely a corrupted version of Isaiah 9:2. Rather he feels that in the earliest version of Matthew this verse was a combination of Isaiah 9:2 and , however later translators missed the second OT reference and over time altered the verse to make it conform more to Isaiah. Shedinger notes that there are surviving copies of this verse from before the fourth century and the original format could very well have been lost. Shedinger's theory is based on analysis of early non-Greek sources that might have had access to a lost version.\n\n\"Sat\" is a literal translation from the Greek, but Fortna notes that it misses the emotional meaning of the phrase. he suggests that \"languished\" or \"wasted away\" would more precisely match the tone of the original.\n"}
{"id": "2063425", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2063425", "title": "Texas's 16th congressional district", "text": "Texas's 16th congressional district\n\nTexas's 16th congressional district of the United States House of Representatives includes El Paso and the surrounding area in the state of Texas. The current Representative is Democrat Veronica Escobar. \n\nThe district was initially created in 1903. For most of the next six decades, it stretched across , from El Paso in the west to the Permian Basin (Midland and Odessa) in the east. However, after Texas' original 1960 district map was thrown out as a result of \"Wesberry v. Sanders\", the 16th was shrunk down to the city of El Paso and most of its surrounding suburban communities.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2063432", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2063432", "title": "Libon, Albay", "text": "Libon, Albay\n\n', officially the ', (; ), is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nLibon is a first class municipality with a land area of . It is about west-north-west of the provincial capital of Albay Legazpi City, and about east-south-east of Manila. It is classified as a partly urban municipality with 47 barangays.\n\nLibon's major economic activities are agriculture and fishing. Its of ricelands produce 30.4 million kilos or 608,000 bags of palay per year. Libon is also the seat of the Pantao Port, a regional port facility linking the Masbate island province, the Visayas and Mindanao to mainland Bicol towards Southern Luzon and the National Capital Region.\n\nThe town of Libon, as it is presently known was originally called \"Libong\". It is not known when and how the letter \"g\" got dropped. Some writers believe that the Spaniards must have found it difficult to pronounce the word \"Libong\" with the letter g, so that in due time Libong became Libon. There are conflicting and various versions regarding the origin of the name \"Libong\". Some say that the word must have been derived from the Bicol term \"libong\" or \"ribong\", meaning puzzled, dizziness, losing one's sense of direction, or becoming oriented. Others believe that the word \"Libon\" must have originated from a Spanish term \"libon\", which means \"assault\". Another version is that the word is a corruption of the Bicol word \"libtong\", meaning difficulty, obstacle or pool of stagnant water, which when applied to a place could mean a difficult or stagnant place. The more popular and perhaps more plausible version is the claim that Libon originated from the Bicol term \"libong\" or \"ribong\", and there is a story which seems to support this view. The story goes that Captain Juan de Salcedo and his men arrived in this place, by sailing across Lake Bato and entering the river called, Quimba. Sailing upstream, they finally landed in a place called Linao; (Linao is one of the barrios of Libon today and is situated on the banks of Quimba River). Here Salcedo and his men proceeded to find a town. However, after exploring the surrounding area and noting that Linao was at the foot of a mountain range, making it vulnerable to enemy attacks from the surrounding mountains, Salcedo and his men, with some natives as their guide, decided to move on to a more suitable place. Traveling across marshy land, they arrived at a slightly elevated area. Upon looking around and trying to determine where they were, one native guide remarked \"libong aco\". (I am confused). The Spaniards on hearing the word \"libong\" understood it to mean the name of the place. Hence, Salcedo named it \"Santiago de Libon.\"\n\n\"The city of Libon draws its beginning to the “Second Expedition of Juan de Salcedo to the Bicol Region in 1573.” Using the northern passageway to the region Salcedo arrived in 1571, following his uncle's (Miguel Lopez de Legazpi) cshortly after the seizure of Manila. Legazapi had commissioned his nephew to calm the area around Manila, and in the process Salcedo discovered a rumor that “somewhere beyond the mountains of southern Luzon was a placed called Paracale with its fabulous gold mines.“ He spent an undisclosed amount of time searching for the rumored mines, but returned to Manila upon the orders of his uncle vowing to return to the Bicol Region as soon as he could.\n\nHe accomplished this in early 1573. “Salcedo undertook his second trip to the Bicol Region retracing his first route and with the wealth of information that he gathered during his first arrival in the region, he led his men beyond Paracale.” He continued upstream on the Bicol River upstream and reached its source, Bato Lake. On the shore of the lake Salcedo established the beginnings a \"Settlement for Spaniards and named it Santiago de Libong.\"\n\nAt present, it is also home to the notorious Conception Brothers. A rouge organization of bandits terrorizing the countryside with their guerilla style tactics of intimidation, abduction, murder, and robberies.\n\nIn 1573, Juan de Salcedo set up the garrison named Santiago de Libong, and a church was constructed under the patronage of Saint James the Apostle. In 1578, when the Franciscans arrive, it was ceded to the province under San Gregorio Magno. A church made of red bricks was constructed in Linao in 1591. This church was destroyed in mid 17th century and a new church was constructed.\n\nIn 1847, the town was ceded to Albay from Camarines. Huerta reported that the new church was reconstructed by Vicente de Dosbarrios in 1865 and it was made of solid bricks, while the \"casa parroquial\" was made of stone. The church was destroyed by a strong earthquake in 1907 and it had to reconstructed with new materials.\n\nLibon is located at .\n\nAccording to the Philippine Statistics Authority, the has a land area of constituting of the total area of Albay.\n\nLibon is politically subdivided into 47 barangays.\n\nThis festival was made to thank the industrious local farmers of Libon that planted rice into its 35% rice lands. It is celebrated every July 22–25.\n\nIn the , Libon had a population of . The population density was .\n\n"}
{"id": "2063433", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2063433", "title": "Malilipot", "text": "Malilipot\n\n', officially the ', (; ), is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nMalilipot traces its history to the expedition of Juan de Salcedo in 1573 and the colonization of Albay Bay, now called Albay, with 120 soldiers and guides. During these period, towns were established. Libon was founded in 1573, Polangui in 1589, Oas in 1587, and Malinao in 1600. Other municipalities were established in succession. A story alleged that the Spanish colonizers reached this new settlement in the month of December. The weather was so cold that the Spaniards exclaimed \"muy frio\" which the natives interpreted as \"Malilipot\" meaning \"very cold\".\n\nAnother story alleged that when a Spanish ship disembarked on the bay of Malilipot, Spaniards asked a native fishermen for the name of the place. Due to language barrier, the natives thought he was asked what are their conditions, to which they replied \"nalilipot kami\". The Spaniards then conclude that the place was \"Malilipot\".\n\nAnother legendary name given to the town was \"Manlipod\" meaning \"Protector\" attributed to the mountain ranges which had protected the town from the early destructive eruptions of Mayon Volcano. It was said that, had it not been for these mountain ranges, the \"poblacion\" would have been buried under the molten lava and ashes emitted by Mount Mayon. These protective mountains are Toktokan and Bulawan (meaning \"gold\") situated on the southern part and extends to the western side of the town, and screens it from the ravages of Mayon Volcano. The town is popularly known as Malilipot. Now, the official name of the town is Malilipot (Ma-li-li-pot), accented on the third syllable.\n\nMalilipot is located at .\n\nAccording to the Philippine Statistics Authority, the has a land area of constituting of the total area of Albay.\n\nMalilipot is politically subdivided into 18 barangays.\n\nThe \"sitio\"s of Calbayog and Canaway were converted into a \"barrio\"s in 1959 and 1957, respectively.\n\nIn the , Malilipot had a population of . The population density was .\n\n\"For lovers of waterfalls in more or less unspoiled nature a day trip from Legaspi to Malilipot can be warmly recommended. From here, on the north-east foothills of Mayon, there is a path leading in the direction of the volcano to the Busay Falls. These falls descend in stages from a height of 250 meters, flowing into seven pools on the way that tempt you to swim in them. If you don't want to jump straight into the first pool, then turn off onto the path on the right just before it. After about a 15-minute this will take you to the second pool.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2063435", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2063435", "title": "Malinao, Albay", "text": "Malinao, Albay\n\n', officially the ', (; ), is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nMalinao was founded in 1600, or 79 years after Ferdinand Magellan landed in Cebu and planted the first Christian Cross.\n\nBetween 1600 and 1616, Malinao was then part of the Diocese of Cagsawa (now Daraga). It became an independent \"bisita\" or \"sitio\" attached to Sawangan (now Legazpi City) until 1619, when separate religious administration was exercised with Rev. Francisco de Santa Ana, OFM, as first pastor.\n\nLocal folklore speaks of a plant once rich in this town called \"alinao.\" The prefix \"ma,\" which denotes abundance of something in local dialect, was affixed by the natives in referring to the place abundant with \"Alinao\", thus \"Ma-alinao\" and later corrupted to \"Malinao\".\n\nIt was in 1916 when, according to legendary account, Malinao got its name. A siege by Moros on town resulted in the abduction of seven women. Miraculously, the boat sank within the jurisdictional waters of Malinao and on that same spot in the sea across the island of natunawan because of the women's fervent prayer in canticles and \"tarahades\" or clear thoughts for the Blessed Virgin to sink the boat. From these \"clear thoughts\" of the seven women translated in Bicol dialect as \"malinao na isip.\" The name of Malinao was given to the Municipality. It has since then the tradition among the residents particularly the women, to sing the canticles or \"tarahades\" in times of crisis, calamities, or when they want to drive away epidemics and misfortunes.\n\nAccording to the Philippine Statistics Authority, the has a land area of constituting of the total area of Albay.\n\nMalinao occupies a narrow stretch of plains hemmed in by the Lagonoy Gulf in the east and Mount Malinao on the west. The area is dominated by the mountain ranges of Malinao, with a peak altitude of above sea level.\n\nThe town is south-east of Manila, north of Albay Provincial Capitol, and north of Tabaco City.\n\nMalinao is politically subdivided into 29 barangays. Of these, 12 are upland barangays, 13 lowland barangays, and 4 are coastal barangays. Twenty-five barangays are rural areas and the remaining four are urban.\n\nIn the , Malinao had a population of . The population density was .\n\nIn 1995, The total population was 33,872, which increased by 2359 individuals or 6.94% for five (5) years in 2000. In the 2010 census, the population had reached 42,770.\n\nOf these, less than ten (10) percent or 3,301 reside in the urban barangays of Bagumbayan, Pawa, Payahan, and Poblacion. The rest of the constituents meanwhile stay on the rural barangays: Awang, Bagatangki, Balading, Balza, Bariw, Baybay, Bulang, Burabod, Cabunturan, Comun, Diaro, Estancia, Jonop, Labnig, Libod, Malolos, matalipni, Ogob, Quinarabasahan, Santa Elena, Soa, Sugcad, Tagoytoy, Tanawan, and Tuliw. The densest areas are Estancia, Labnig, and Balading while Awang and Bagatangki are the least populated in the rural areas.\n\nThe majority of its population is engaged in agriculture and other agri-related enterprise.\n\nThe major agricultural products are:\n\nOther crops:\n\n"}
{"id": "2063436", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2063436", "title": "Manito, Albay", "text": "Manito, Albay\n\n', officially the ', (; ), is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nThe first settlers in the area came from Bacon, Cagraray Island or Casiguran which are geographically situated near Manito. In prehistoric time, the Bicolanos from the above-mentioned places had shown evidence of civilization. Recently artifacts unearthed from this place both by Filipino and foreign anthropologist show that Bicol is indeed inhabited first by Bicolanos, not traders from foreign lands.\n\nIn 1840, a few settlers the Visayas came and settled in the place near the coast of Manito, because of fear from Moro invaders. They officially established the place and named it \"Manito\", because it was abounding in clinging vine called \"nito\", which belongs to the rattan family and is used as raw material for making baskets. When \"nito\" vines are artistically made into baskets, the finished products are natural dark brown in color similar to the color of coffee. The prefix \"Ma\" means \"plenty\", then Manito means \"plenty of \"nito\"\".\n\nLater, natives from the neighboring towns of Albay, Bacon, and Rapu-rapu who fled from the Moro raiders found a safer place near the seashore and near the thick west Of Manito. In the past this town was surrounded by thick forest that gave natural fiction — a haven of safety and comfort — to the Visayan settlers. Although they were brave and courageous, they lacked arms and ammunitions to fight the Moros.\n\nIn the early years of settlement, the center of this place that soon became the Poblacion had only a few scattered houses. As forests were cut, the cleared areas were planted with \"abaca\" and other crops. Due to the abundance of food and money which the people earned through the sale of their forest and agricultural products, Manito became a progressive settlement. But today it is left behind by neighboring towns. Forests are mostly denuded due to cutting in the 1980s, while replanting of trees has been neglected.\n\nManito is located at .\n\nAccording to the Philippine Statistics Authority, the has a land area of constituting of the total area of Albay.\n\nManito is located on the south-eastern tip of Albay, adjoining the south-eastern limit of Legazpi City. The west and NW coast of Manito lies along Poliqui Bay opposite the city of Legazpi. To the north and north-east coast of the municipality lies Albay Gulf. To the east and south of Manito is the province of Sorsogon separated by the Pocdol Mountains, which is also called as the Bacon-Manito Volcanic Complex. Because of topography, the two provinces are not connected along the coast. A mountain pass from barangay Nagotgot connects Manito to Sorsogon City in Sorsogon province.\n\nSouthwest of the \"poblacion\" is barangay Buyo separated by the Buyo River. The two rivers serve as irrigation for small rice fields and water sources for the residents.\n\nManito is politically subdivided into 15 barangays. 14 are classified as rural areas and only the \"poblacion\" (town center, also known as \"Barangay It-ba\"), is classified as an urban area. The \"poblacion\" is situated on the north-western seashore of the town, south of the mouth of the Camanitohan River. Northwest of the town center is barangay Cawit, separated by the Caminatohan.\n\nIn the , Manito had a population of . The population density was .\n\nThe municipality is a supplier of \"lasa\" grass and its final product - soft broom. A significant number of households are engaged in soft broom making as a source of livelihood. Many households are still engaged in cottage industries like basket making in spite of the dwindling supply of \"nito\" vines.\n\nIn 1982, the municipality of Manito emerged in the limelight by virtue of PD k.20364 establishing Manito as reservation area for Geothermal Exploration and development. In June 1994, the Bacman Geothermal Production Field has started its full operation and in October 1998, President Joseph Estrada inaugurated the additional 1.5 megawatt power/multi-crop drying plant located at Pawa, Manito in support of his food security program.\n\nSaint Raphael the Archangel is the patron saint of Manito where the town fiesta is celebrated every October 24 in his honor.\n\n"}
{"id": "2063437", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2063437", "title": "Pio Duran, Albay", "text": "Pio Duran, Albay\n\n', officially the ', (; ), is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nAccess to the town is via Ligao. It is considered as one of the major route going to Masbate.\n\nIt was named after the Filipino Pan-Asianist, Lawyer and Legislator, Pio Saceda Duran (1900–1961).\n\nPio Duran is located at .\n\nAccording to the Philippine Statistics Authority, the has a land area of constituting of the total area of Albay.\n\nPio Duran is politically subdivided into 33 barangays.\n\nIn the , Pio Duran had a population of . The population density was .\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2063438", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2063438", "title": "Polangui", "text": "Polangui\n\n', officially the ', (; ), is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nThe origin of the name \"Polangui\" has many versions. The foremost and seemingly more accepted version is, \"that of a giant robust tree which existed majestically in the early municipal settlement\". The natives of the settlement called the \"Oyangue\", which also served as the early landmark of the area whereby new settlers looked upon in their wandering. Similarly, the early Spanish frontier settlers found this tree and it became their famous settlement landmark. The settlement was then called \"Binanuaan\" but often referred to as \"Oyangue\" by nearby settlers. As more settlers came to dwell and engage in trade endeavors with the indigenous inhabitants, the more was the settlement known in distant areas by the name \"Oyangue\" (referring to the tree landmark) which was more widely accepted than \"Binanuaan\". The passing of generations corrupted the word \"Oyangue\" into several acronyms. Most acceptable and widely used before was \"Polangue\" and later \"Polangui\" which has remained today.\n\nAnother legend is about the story of a maiden named \"Pulang Angui\" which means \"Red Maria\" (\"Angui\" is the nickname for \"Maria\") who loved red colors for dress and whose beautiful body, face and red lips became the object of affection by the males to the point of adoration. She was modest in her ways, talented for possessing various skills, with happy disposition, showing love of arts and religion. She would lead the tribe in festivities. When the Spaniards came, the soldiers who first set foot in Polangui asked for the name of the place. The native thought the foreigners was asking for the name of \"Pulang Angui\" and said so. The Spaniards recorded the name of the place as \"Pulangui\", a concoction of the name which was later on, as years went by, was converted to \"Polangui\".\n\nPre-colonial Polangui was a fertile valley cradled by the virgin forests of Mount Masaraga. It was formed out of five settlements ruled by the Datu of Ponso till the late 1583. The center of the settlements was called \"Banwang gurang\", meaning \"old town\" and is now known as \"Magurang\".\n\nIn 1584, Fray Baltazar de la Magdalena, left Ambos Camarines and stumbled upon this place west of Mount Masaraga. He found that each of the five settlements had about 100 inhabitants. In the same year, he founded a settlement within the fertile valley and established a ranch, which he called \"Binanwaan\". Being inland and strategically situated, the town was spared from the frequent raids of sea pirates as well as from the occasional destruction caused by the eruption of Mayon Volcano.\n\nPolangui became a \"visita\", or outreach village under the jurisdiction of the Villa Santiago de Libon, which was established in 1573 by Juan de Salcedo, the grandson of the Spanish \"conquistador\" Miguel Lopez de Legazpi. The villa, which lies south-west of Polangui, would be known as the fourth of its kind in the entire archipelago.\n\nFray de la Magdalena was credited with the founding of Polangui. Old manuscripts in the Archives of Manila and in the Franciscan Convent in Manila point to 1584 as the year Polangui was founded, and thus considered as one of the oldest municipalities in the Philippines.\n\nBy 1654, the original settlement became considerably bigger when Fray Alonzo de San Juan, was assigned in Polangui as \"Encargado\". The settlement was expanded reaching the present barangay sites in Lanigay, Ponso and Balinad. The town proper was established in Lanigay where a church made of wood was erected adjacent to about 280 wooden dwellings and more than 1,000 nipa huts. Unfortunately, this church together with the dwelling units was razed by a fire to the ground.\n\nWith the coming of another missionary, Fray Juan Bautista Marza, a new church made of bricks and stones was completed in 1664. This church stood on a new elevated site and still stands to this day. Under the leadership of Fray Marza, roads and bridges were also initiated and schools were introduced simultaneously with the Christian Doctrine and Spanish culture.\n\nGrowth of the settlement was so fast that it became a \"Poblacion\" and finally recognized as a \"Pueblo\" in 1674. Owing to its steady growth, a link with nearby Libon and Oas became a necessity. Hence, Fr. Jose Arnao, parish priest and Encargado from 1832 until 1852, directed the construction of roads and bridges that would connect Polangui to neighboring towns, including upland Buhi in Camarines Sur.\n\nDuring Spanish regime, a significant highlight is the construction of its parish church which took 10 years to be completed starting in 1654 by Fray Alonzo de San Juan and completed in 1664 by Fray Juan Bautista Marza.\n\nPolangueño martyr, Camilo Jacob, who is a photographer, was executed on January 4, 1897 with other Bicolanos. They are now commemorated as the Quince Martires del Bicolandia. A year later, the Spanish rule in Bicol ended with the mutiny of \"Guardia Civil\" in Naga led by Elias Angeles.\n\nSometime during the Philippine-American War, Polangui became the seat of the Provincial Government of Albay for a brief period under Governor Domingo Samson. When the Americans conquered Polangui in 1890 without firing a single shot, the form of government went through transition from military to civil government then Commonwealth system. The seat of the municipal government was in Ponso with Clemente Sarte as the acting Chief Executive. A few months later, the seat of the municipal government was transferred to Centro Occidental and still remains up to this day.\n\nWhen the Japanese forces occupied Polangui on December 13, 1941, Cipriano Saunar, then vice mayor of the Commonwealth government was appointed mayor by the Japanese military administration. A secret civil government was established simultaneously headed by Julian Saunar which was supported by the people. Cipriano Saunar's successor was Manuel Samson Sr. and in turn was succeeded by Jesus Salalima who ruled from 1947 to 1960.\n\nPolangui is located at , in the north-eastern quadrant of the third district of Albay.\n\nAccording to the Philippine Statistics Authority, the has a land area of constituting of the total area of Albay.\n\nPolangui is bounded on the north by Buhi and Iriga City of Camarines Sur province, south by Libon, Oas and City of Ligao; and west by Malinao and the City of Tabaco. It is about north of the regional center of the Bicol Region, Legazpi City; north-east of Naga City and south of Daet, Camarines Norte.\n\nPolangui is politically subdivided into 44 barangays..\n\nIt is grouped into three divisions:\n\nIn the , Polangui had a population of . The population density was .\n\nPolangui has a general climate characterized by dry season with a very pronounced maximum rainfall from November to December. Prevailing wind is in the general direction from north-east to south-west.\n\nBikol Polangueño is the main dialect in Polangui, classified under Oasnon/West Miraya Bikol language. The majority of the population speak Tagalog and English. Other languages/dialects spoken are Bicolano Viejo and Bikol Rinconada (Agos-Matacon Area).\n\nChristianity is the predominant religion with Roman Catholicism having the biggest practitioners. There are four (4) Catholic parishes in the municipality: Saints Peter and Paul Parish at Barangay Centro Occidental (main parish), Saint Dominic Guzman Parish at Barangay Matacon, Saint Anthony of Padua Parish at Barangay Ponso and Our Lady of Guadalupe Parish at Barangay Lidong.\n\nOther Christian denominations present in the municipality include Protestants, Baptist, United Pentecostal Church, and Iglesia ni Cristo. Islam and Buddhism also have followers in the municipality.\n\nAll of the barangays have their respective patron saints and barangay chapels.\n\nPolangui provides a good view of Mount Mayon. The town hosts various historical and cultural tourism spots and other tourism-oriented recreation centers. Among these are:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nPolangui is classified as a first class municipality.\n\nIts economy is still heavily dependent on agriculture. Major crops include rice, corn, cacao, pili, root crops, vegetables, coconuts and abacá. Poultry and livestock raising are also very much alive.\n\nMajor business commercial establishments include the Bicol's largest mall chain, \"Liberty Commercial Center (LCC)\"; and the \"Novo Asia Jeans and Shirts\". The municipality has also attracted investments from national retail chains such as the recently opened \"Xentro Mall Polangui\" and SM Hypermarket. Other local establishments include \"Tri-Star Commercial\", \"V5 General Merchandise\", \"Angena Trading\", and the recently opened \"Polangui 168 Enterprises\".\n\nRoads in Polangui are classified into:\n\nThe nearest airport is in Legazpi City Legazpi Airport – about from Polangui. Philippine Airlines and Cebu Pacific Air operate in the airport, with daily flights to and from Manila and Cebu. The construction of the soon Polangui Domestic Airport at Barangay Balangibang is still under negotiation.\n\nThe nearest ports from Polangui are Pantao Port in Libon, Pio Duran Port in Pio Duran, Legazpi Seaport in Legazpi City, and Tabaco International Seaport in Tabaco City.\n\nThere are regular transportation to and from Manila and to the other main cities in the Bicol Region. Some bus companies with stations in Polangui are:\n\n\n\nThe construction of the soon Polangui Domestic Airport at Barangay Balangibang is still under negotiation.\n\nPolangui can be reached through land transport (by bus) from Manila in about 10 hours, two hours less if the new (Andaya Highway) route is taken. Main routes can be reached through by aircon buses, Garage to Terminal (GT) Vans and FX (location and access to is underway with the new Polangui Terminal), private cars, trimobiles, \"padyak\" and motorcycles.\n\nIn March 2012, The 10 1/2-hour Mayon Limited started traveling between Manila and Ligao City, but later ceased operations. In 2016, operation of the PNR Southrail Line resumed with one round trip between Naga City and Legazpi City, and served the town through the Polangui railway station. However, it was also stopped due to issues on maintenance and public safety.\n\nPolangui is a landlocked municipality, entirely enclosed by land. The nearest ports from Polangui are Pantao Port in Libon, Pio Duran Port in Pio Duran, Legazpi Seaport in Legazpi City, and Tabaco International Seaport in Tabaco City.\n\nA local FM Station, Hot FM Polangui DWJJ 97.9 MHz, broadcasts live updates, news and entertainment. The municipality also receives signal from all major radio stations from Legazpi City and even Naga City in Camarines Sur.\n\nThere is one TV relay station operating in the municipality (ABS-CBN). However, local TVs get strong signals from nearby Legazpi City and Naga City relay stations. Cable services are also offered in the area by two companies:\n\nThere are two existing telephone lines in Polangui:\n\nThe municipality is served by the Philippines' three main mobile phone carriers:\n\nPresently, there are almost 20 Day Care Centers, 3 private pre-schools, 42 public elementary schools, 5 private elementary schools, 7 public high schools, 3 private high schools and 4 tertiary schools in the municipality.\n\nThe municipality has four tertiary schools:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe present health services of the municipality are administered by 2 Municipal Health Officers, 2 Public Health Nurses, 1 Medical Technologist, 1 Dentist, and 12 Midwives.\n\nAside from the Municipal Health Office and Barangay Health Stations, there are 2 Private Hospitals (Isip General Hospital in Gabon and Perillo General Hospital in Magurang), and 14 clinics that provide alternative health services to the population of the municipality. Polangui is equipped with 6 ambulances- 1 in the Rural Health Unit (RHU), 2 in the municipal hall, and 3 in the health station centers in Balinad, Itaran and Matacon.\n\nThe Basic Emergency Obstetric and Newborn Care (BEmONC) Birthing Facility at RHU-Polangui specializes in maternal healthcare, along with several lying-in and birthing clinics. Polangui's BEmONC Birthing Facility is a PhilHealth-accredited institution and offers free services to cardholders.\n\nA new medical establishment recently opened its doors- the Our Lady of Perpetual Help Diagnostic and Dialysis Center at Barangay Centro Oriental, in front of the Polangui South Central Elementary School. Polangui and Legazpi City are the only ones in Albay who have a dialysis facility.\n\nIn dealing with solid waste management, the Municipality of Polangui has adopted the usual means of dumping garbage in an open-pit dumpsite. Garbage is collected from each barangay in the poblacion every Tuesday and Friday. The municipality has four garbage trucks to ensure that the garbage is collected and disposed in the waste disposal site located at Sitio Barobo, about distance from the central business district.\n\nThe Polangui Fire Station, Bureau of Fire Protection is located at Barangay Centro Occidental, between the Municipal Hall and the Polangui Police Station. The Polangui BFP is headed by Fire Marshal SINSP MARC ALLAN C CONSUEGRA.\n\nPolangui PNP is headed by PSI Edgar Azotea\n\nThe Polangui District Jail is manned by officers of the Bureau of Jail Management and Penology (BJMP), headed by Jail Warden Sr. Insp. Alfredo R. Ricaford, Jr.\n\nThe Albay Power and Energy Corporation (APEC) Sub-Station 2 in Barangay Centro Occidental provides electricity to the majority of the town's barangays.\n\nWater supply is managed by the Polangui Waterworks Services Administration (POWASA), inaugurated by former President Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo and ex-Albay Governor (now Albay 2nd District Representative) Joey Salceda, located at Barangay Balinad. Its present service area encompasses the poblacion and some of the other barangays. The rest of the residents, most especially those in the upland and rural areas are still dependent on shallow wells, deep wells or spring-water.\n\nThere are 7 cemeteries in the municipality:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2063439", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2063439", "title": "Rapu-Rapu", "text": "Rapu-Rapu\n\nRapu-Rapu, officially the (; ), is a in the province of in the of the Philippines. The population was at the . \n\nThe municipality comprises three islands: Rapu-rapu Island, Batan Island, and Guinanayan Island.\n\nRapu-Rapu and Batan Islands were historically part of Prieto Diaz in Sorsogon. In 1891, the islands were placed under the jurisdiction of the old \"Municipality of Bacon\" (now \"Bacon district\" of Sorsogon City) due to their proximity to Bacon than to Prieto Diaz. Rapu-Rapu was made into an independent municipality in 1901.\n\nRapu-Rapu is located at .\n\nAccording to the Philippine Statistics Authority, the has a land area of constituting of the total area of Albay.\n\nRapu-Rapu is southeast of Manila and east of Legazpi City, the provincial capital. The small island of Rapu-Rapu and Batan lie to the east of Luzon and together with the islands of San Miguel and Cagraray, form the northern rim of Albay Gulf. These islands represents a low monoclinal continuation of the eastern structural arch into the waters of Lagonoy Gulf. Most of the land surface of Rapu-Rapu has exposed basement-complex rocks in its interior consisting mainly of serpentines. Rapu-Rapu have deposits of coal and copper.\n\nRapu-Rapu is politically subdivided into 34 barangays.\n\nIn the , Rapu-Rapu had a population of . The population density was .\n\nRapu-Rapu has a tropical climate. There is significant rainfall throughout the year in Rapu-Rapu. Even the driest month still has a lot of rainfall. According to Köppen and Geiger, the climate is classified as Af. The average annual temperature in Rapu-Rapu is . The average annual rainfall is . The driest month is April with . Most precipitation falls in December, with an average of . The warmest month of the year is June with an average temperature of . In February, the average temperature is . It is the lowest average temperature of the whole year. The difference in precipitation between the driest month and the wettest month is 344 mm. The average temperatures vary during the year by 2.6 °C.\n\nTyphoons are an especially frequent and destructive menace in the Bicol region. The months of September, October and November experience the more destructive of these violent tropical storms. Forty percent of the storms carrying high-velocity winds in the Philippine pass through Southeastern Luzon where Rapu-Rapu is located.\n\nThe following were the elected officials of Rapu-Rapu for the term 2013-2016.\n\nRapu-Rapu has 36 elementary schools and 7 secondary schools directly supervised by Department of Education-Division of Albay.\n\n"}
{"id": "2063440", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2063440", "title": "Santo Domingo, Albay", "text": "Santo Domingo, Albay\n\n', officially the ', (; ), is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nSanto Domingo was a former \"barrio\" of Ibalon, then the Municipality of Albay, now Legazpi City. It became a separate Municipality in 1749 through the uproar of its inhabitants and under the leadership of Diego Castellanos who took the matter first to the authorities in Manila, and to the Bishop of Ambos Camarines. But it was not until 1785, 36 years after its establishment as a town that a church was built. In those days, it was only church building that represented the town. The first church was made of wood and \"basag\" (bamboo split). Here, the statue of the patron saint Santo Domingo (Saint Dominic de Guzman), whose feast is observed every August 4, was placed. When the church was burned in 1882, the Spanish priests built a new one; the present artistic church with \"piedras ladradas\" chiseled balustrades and twin domes.\n\nThe town of Santo Domingo was originally named \"Libog\". Albay historians say that there were a number of stories on the origin of the name Libog. One version is that libog was derived from the Bikol word \"labog\" meaning \"unclear water\" for there was a time when no potable water was available in the locality. Another has it that the town might have been called after \"labog\" (jellyfish), which abound in its coastal water. \"Libod\" (behind) is another version because the town’s position is behind the straight road from Legazpi to Tabaco across Basud to Santa Misericordia.\n\nStill another version is the corrupted form of the word \"libot\" which means \"round about\" or \"winding way\". In the early days of Spanish invasion, there were two routes passing through this place to Tabaco: one trail was straight or a short cut and the other was a round about (libot) way passing through the center of the town (via Poblacion). Later when the time came to classify and arrange this settlement to give it a political status as a \"visita\" of Binanuahan, now Legazpi Port, the corruption crept in – \"Libog\" for \"Libot\". Hence, this town was named \"El Pueblo de Liboug\", by the Spanish conquerors.\n\nIn 1816, one hundred fifty-nine (159 Moro pirates and six (6) vintas attacked the town, taking them one captive, Juan de la Conception, who was able to return after 30 years. The attack prompted the people to construct watchtowers and walls along the shores, which served as their shelter from attacks. Ruins of there walls are still existent.\n\nIn the year 1832, the town received its pioneer Filipino priest, father Martin Martinez. The same year, the \"Presidencia Municipal\" was completed under Captain Teodoro Felebrico. This building was ruined and rehabilitated into a public school building in 1918.\n\nOn , \"Libog\" was renamed into \"Santo Domingo\", through \"Republic Act 2520\".\n\nSanto Domingo is located at .\n\nAccording to the Philippine Statistics Authority, the has a land area of constituting of the total area of Albay.\n\nSanto Domingo is politically subdivided into 23 barangays.\n\nIn the , Santo Domingo had a population of . The population density was .\n\nPotenciano Gregorio, Sr., a famous Bicolano composer and musician was born in the town on May 19, 1880. A shrine where his remains are kept is located in the Town Plaza.\n\n\"Sarung Banggi Festival\", an eight-day summer festivity immortalizing Potenciano Gregorio, Sr.'s timeless composition is held here annually in the month of May.\n\nResorts along the Santo Domingo coastline offer a wonderful view of the black beach, the Albay Gulf and a part of the Legazpi City area. Some resorts offer entertainment facilities like videoke and billiards. Some have private pools.\n\nSpanish galleon wreck site which serves as a strong reminder of the rich Manila to Acapulco (Mexico) trade routes during the Spanish era. Found along the shores of Buhatan beach at Santo Domingo, this galleon relic was wrought by a strong typhoon on its way to Acapulco and crushed on the reefs of Albay Gulf. This historical remains lie at five fathoms (9 m) under the sea. It is an ideal place for scuba diving, fishing or boating.\n\n"}
{"id": "2063441", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2063441", "title": "Tiwi, Albay", "text": "Tiwi, Albay\n\n, (; ), is a in the Province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nThe present mayor is Ami Villanueva.\n\nFriars called the place \"Tigbi\", which evolved into \"Tivi\" and, then, finally to its present name \"Tiwi\".\n\nTiwi began as a \"barrio\" of Malinao before it was formally organized as a politically independent \"pueblo\" in 1696. As a \"pueblo\", it was governed by a \"gobernadorcillo\". As a Catholic parish, it was administered by a secular priest under the then Diocese of Nueva Caceres, now an archdiocese. In its primeval stages, it had some 1,105 houses, a parish church, a community-funded primary school, and a cemetery outside the town proper. The villagers ordinarily engaged in fishing, planting rice, corn, sugarcane, indigo, fruit-bearing trees, and vegetables. Aside from agriculture, they also busied themselves weaving cotton and abaca clothes, and in pottery.\n\nIn Kagnipa, known today as Barangay Baybay, the dilapidated Sinimbahan, the remnant of the first concrete house of worship built by the Franciscans led by the pastor of Malinao, Fray Pedro de Brosas, remains to be the deaf witness of both the villagers' ready acceptance of the Christian faith and their suffering of persecution at the hands of the Moslems; Christian missionaries called them Moros. The parola by the shore of Sitio Nipa of the same barangay testifies to the people's paralyzing fear of the Moros' capricious forays. The market site of the pueblo before these raids was located in the present location of Baybay Elementary School. In order to sidetrack surprise attacks, at least temporarily, the market site was transferred to southernmost part of now Barangay Baybay; henceforth, it was called \"Binanwaan\". The transfer, however, was useless. Finally, to have enough time to escape and keep themselves safer from their enemies' easy attacks, they moved the market site and their settlement to the present poblacion now named as Barangay Tigbi. Before the Moro's assaults, Barangay Baybay was then the center of trade and commerce because of its easy accessibility to marine transportation of goods from the islands of what are now known as Catanduanes, San Miguel, Rapu-Rapu, and Batan, not to mention those from adjoining pueblos in the mainland of Ibalon, now the province of Albay, and the Camarines.\n\nIn the extant records of the municipality, the first chief executive of the municipal government was Don Lorenzo Mancilla installed in 1776.\n\nTiwi is located at .\n\nAccording to the Philippine Statistics Authority, the has a land area of constituting of the total area of Albay.\n\nTiwi is politically subdivided into 25 barangays.\n\nIn the , Tiwi had a population of . The population density was .\n\nRoman Catholicism remained the dominant religion since its propagation in the town 1696.\n\nGenerally the town speaks Central Bikol as their first language while others speak Buhinon in the areas near Buhi, Camarines Sur. Other Bikol languages are spoken by significant minorities that are from other areas of the Bicol Region.\n\nThe majority of the inhabitants also understand Tagalog (Filipino) and English as second languages.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2063443", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2063443", "title": "Ligao", "text": "Ligao\n\n', officially the ', (; ), or simply referred to as Ligao City, is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people. Most of the city's economy came from agriculture sector. \n\nLigao City is politically subdivided into 55 barangays. There are 11 urban and 44 rural barangays, of which 3 are coastal barangays.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2063445", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2063445", "title": "Barker Ranch", "text": "Barker Ranch\n\nBarker Ranch is located inside Death Valley National Park in eastern California. Used as a mining and recreational property from the 1940s to the 1960s, it is infamous due to its association with Charles Manson and his \"family\".\n\nBarker Ranch is located in a rock- and boulder-filled valley in the Panamint Range. It is accessible only by sandy, primitive and rugged roads. Streams feed this little valley and provide much vegetation. There is a small one-room guest house located to the side of the main house. There is also a five-thousand-gallon \"swimming pool\" (in reality a reservoir to store water from the spring) made from cement and rock boulders towards the back of the property.\n\nBluch and Helen Thomason began construction of Barker Ranch around 1940. It was originally used as a storage and shop facility to support their mining activity in the area. They constructed a small cabin and out building, with electricity provided by a windmill and generator, and drinking water from a nearby spring. In 1950, Bluch Thomason died and the ranch became a seasonal vacation property.\n\nThe ranch was sold to James and Arlene Barker of Oklahoma in 1956. The Barkers engaged in gold and uranium mining in the area through the rest of the 1950s and the 1960s. To accommodate their family gatherings, the Barkers enlarged the house and constructed more out buildings.\n\nThe closest habitation to Barker Ranch is Myers Ranch. The ranch was built in 1932 by Bill and Barbara Myers. The Myers family resided on the property until 1960 when they relocated to Fresno. Myers Ranch is currently a 40-acre (16 ha) private inholding within Death Valley National Park owned by the Myers family.\n\nIn 1968, Charles Manson learned about the Myers Ranch from Catherine Gillies, the granddaughter of Barbara Myers. Starting in November 1968, Manson and others began staying at the ranch and discovered the nearby Barker Ranch. The buildings at Barker Ranch being in better condition, the family relocated there and later obtained Arlene Barker's permission to use the property on a temporary basis. At times, the family was using both properties.\n\nThe Inyo County sheriff department, California Highway Patrol, and National Park Service Law Enforcement Rangers captured the group in raids on October 10 and October 12, 1969. Manson was caught hiding under the bathroom vanity. At the time of his arrest they were unaware of the magnitude of their find. They wanted to prosecute the persons responsible for vandalism within Death Valley National Monument further north, unaware that they had a mass-murder suspect and his followers.\n\nIn early 1970, members of the Manson Family were filmed by Robert Hendrickson at Barker Ranch, sorting through, and taking evidence left behind by detectives, for the making of the Oscar-nominated documentary \"Manson.\"\n\nIn 1971, Arlene Barker ceased to file reports with the Bureau of Land Management (BLM) on the family's mining activity. The land (and improvements) then reverted to government control. In 1976, the ranch became part of the California Desert Conservation Area. In 1994, it was incorporated into Death Valley National Park.\n\nToday the remnants of the ranch belong to National Park Service.\n\nIn early 2008, after decades of persistent rumors of additional Manson family murder victims, forensic investigators performed testing at the ranch for possible buried human remains. Using state of the art technology not available 40 years ago, investigators located several sites consistent with possible clandestine graves. In May 2008, investigators conducted a \"dig\" at the sites; however, further searching by authorities was called off due to finding no evidence or victim remains during the search.\n\nDue to a fire in May 2009, most of the main structure has been destroyed with only the concrete and rock portion of the cabin still standing.\n\n"}
{"id": "2063451", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2063451", "title": "Final Fantasy Legend II", "text": "Final Fantasy Legend II\n\nFinal Fantasy Legend II, originally released in Japan as , is a role-playing video game developed by Square Co. for the Game Boy handheld console as the second game of their \"SaGa\" series. Initially released in December 1990 for Japanese audiences, the game was translated and released in North America in November 1991 by Square America Co, and again in 1998 by Sunsoft. Like its predecessor, the English version was re-branded as a \"Final Fantasy\" title due to the series' popularity in the Western territories. The game's development was headed by lead designer Akitoshi Kawazu, who had worked on the previous title, with a music staff consisting of Kenji Ito and Nobuo Uematsu. In 2009, an enhanced remake of the game was announced for the Nintendo DS titled , featuring three-dimensional graphics, new story elements, and an arranged soundtrack.\n\nThe game is set in a fantasy world where the player assumes the role of one of eight different characters of varying race and gender who leaves on a journey to find their lost father and discover the secret of \"Magi\", a substance created by the gods that holds powerful magic. \"Final Fantasy Legend II\" was largely well-received worldwide during its original release, with readers of Japanese magazine \"Famitsu\" voting it the 94th greatest game of all time in a 2006 poll.\n\nIn \"Final Fantasy Legend II\", the player navigates a character throughout the game world with a party of up to four characters, exploring areas and interacting with non-player characters. Most of the game occurs in towns, castles, caves, and similar areas. To aid exploration on the field screen, \"Final Fantasy Legend II\" makes use of various signs within towns. Initially, the player is limited to the First World to explore, and given access to later worlds as they progress through the game. Players can save their game anytime and anywhere when not in combat to the selected save slot for later playing.\n\nPlayers can journey between field screen locations via the world map, a downsized representation of \"Final Fantasy Legend II\"s various worlds. Players can freely navigate around the world map screen unless restricted by terrain, such as water or mountains. The goal in each world is to obtain enough \"MAGI\" to progress to the next world. Like other \"Final Fantasy\" related games, travel across the world map screen and hostile areas is occasionally interrupted by random enemy encounters.\n\nThe story in \"Final Fantasy Legend II\" revolves around MAGI, the shards, of which there are 77 according to legend, of a shattered statue of the goddess Isis. As a child, the main protagonist character is awakened by his or her father in the middle of the night, who explains he has to leave for a while. After leaving the protagonist with a MAGI and instructing the protagonist to never lose it, he makes his way through the protagonist's open window. Years later, having grown up, the protagonist decides to set out to find his or her father, learning he was part of a secret group called the Guardians hunting for the MAGI, fragments of an ancient statue that give power to their bearers. Accompanied by three friends, the protagonist sets out. Exploring their world, they learn that there exist other worlds connected in a Celestial World by a winding twisting tower called the Pillar of Sky, and using MAGI they can use it to reach each world. They learn that new gods have risen to power in various places using the MAGI, and not all are benevolent to their surroundings. Seeking to become more powerful, the gods are looking for the other fragments, but the heroes learn of the Guardians' worries that if all the fragments of the MAGI are brought together and the statue of Isis is reassembled, a terrible calamity will destroy all worlds.\n\nUnlike the previous title of \"Final Fantasy Legend\" where defeat in battle means game over, in this game the heroes are brought before the god Odin where he offers to revive them if they promise to fight him someday. If they elect to do so, they return to the start of the battle in which they were defeated. They may retry a battle as many times as they wish, but if the heroes refuse, then the game is over, only to restart at the last save. The heroes battle to collect the MAGI themselves while at the same time trying to retrace the lead character's father's path. They must battle with various foes and oppressive gods. The heroes eventually reunite with the main protagonist's father at the Guardians' base, but the base is found and raided by the minions of aforementioned new gods. The father appears to sacrifice himself to rescue Lynn, an ally from a previous world, who is being held hostage. Once the heroes defeat Odin himself in battle, they no longer have the option to revive and re-attempt battles.\n\nAfter the heroes have collected 76 of what they believe to be all 77 MAGI, the character Apollo reappears and displays various previously encountered characters as hostages, extorting all the MAGI from the group. He then enters the Celestial World, to which the group is now unable to pursue him due to their lack of MAGI. They fear that the destruction of the world is at hand, but the protagonist's father reappears and reveals that the Guardians spread disinformation about the MAGI and that there are actually 78. The father rejoins the party, and they recover the last MAGI and re-enter the Celestial World to challenge Apollo, who uses the MAGI in an effort to channel into himself the full power of the Isis statue. Believing that the combined power of the MAGI makes their owner invincible, Apollo engages the heroes. Because he is missing the last piece, however, the process goes awry, and the power overwhelms him, causing him to explode. The father shields the other party members from the explosion and is mortally wounded in the process. As the party recover the MAGI, the concentration of the MAGI's power in one set of hands causes the Celestial World and all the worlds connected to it tremble violently. Hoping that the combined power of the MAGI can save the protagonist's father, the heroes decide to assemble the complete statue. The goddess Isis appears, notices the earthquakes, and, after treating the hero's father (who remains unconscious), joins the party in descending to the center of the worlds where everything is now off balance. Upon reaching the center, a pair of massive mechanical Arsenals acting as a security system must be defeated to gain access to the core and stop the worlds from shaking.\n\nThe heroes learn that Isis was set aside by an ancient civilization to safeguard this pillar system, as the worlds would eventually become old and need to be repaired. Isis stays at the core, fixing the damage from the tremors, and the heroes return home with the protagonist's father. After the credits roll, the protagonist is awoken in the middle of the night by his or her father again much as in the beginning of the game, with the father saying he must leave again, this time in search of the Lost Ark (in the Japanese version of the game, the Three Sacred Treasures of imperial Japan). The main protagonist demands to come with him this time, and the father agrees. They begin to leave but are stopped by the protagonist's mother, who wants to join them rather than be left alone again. They agree, the three of them leave through the open window, and the game ends.\n\n\"Final Fantasy Legend II\" was developed by Square Co. in 1990 under its original Japanese title \"Sa・Ga2: Hihō Densetsu\". The project was headed by Akitoshi Kawazu and Hiromichi Tanaka, who had previously developed the game's predecessor, \"The Final Fantasy Legend\" one year earlier. Like its predecessor, \"Final Fantasy Legend II\" was designed to be difficult and have advanced gameplay, described by Kawazu as the main difference between the \"SaGa\" and \"Final Fantasy\" series. The game's music staff consisted of Nobuo Uematsu, famous for his involvement in the Square's \"Final Fantasy\" series, and Kenji Ito. In December 1991, the game's music would be released by NTT Publishing on a compilation soundtrack featuring themes from the first three \"Final Fantasy Legend\" games called \"All Sounds of SaGa\". The album's popularity would allow it to be reprinted in December 2004.\n\nIn November 1991, the game was translated and released in English by Square America, and like its predecessor was renamed \"Final Fantasy Legend II\" in order to tie into the popularity of the \"Final Fantasy\" brand. Due to the popularity of the game, Sunsoft America Corp. entered into a deal with Square to obtain the publishing rights to a re-release of the three \"Final Fantasy Legend\" titles, which were made available in April 1998. Despite advertising the game as being compatible with Nintendo's Game Boy Color handheld, the re-released version featured no enhancements.\n\nIn January 2009, Japanese magazine \"Shōnen Jump\" announced that \"SaGa 2 Hihō Densetsu: Goddess of Destiny\", a remake of \"Final Fantasy Legend II\" for the Nintendo DS, was being developed and directed by Kawazu and would feature fully three-dimensional cel-shaded graphics. In an interview with \"Famitsu\" magazine, Kawazu stated that he and his team had been planning a remake of the game ever since they remade \"The Final Fantasy Legend\" for the WonderSwan Color in 2002, and went ahead with the project now that they felt \"the time was right\". Youichi Yoshimoto, who had previously worked on \"Unlimited Saga\", was appointed project supervisor, along with Kenji Ito who arranged the game's soundtrack. Gen Kobayashi, character designer for Square Enix's \"The World Ends with You\", provides the game's new promotional and character artwork.\n\nThe remake was produced to add new features but still keep the core story and gameplay of the original, and is designed to retain the Game Boy version's play time of \"ten-odd hours\" from start to finish, which Kawazu feels is adequate for a handheld role-playing game, stating \"This is on a portable system, and for that I think it's better not to have a game you must sit down and play for hours on end, but rather something you can enjoy in small pieces at a time.\" Unlike the Game Boy version, battles in the Nintendo DS version no longer occur randomly, and were adjusted to be more like later games in the \"SaGa\" series where enemies appear on the field screen along with the player and are encountered when touched. Also unlike the original, where a character's stat increases through gaining levels was largely randomized, characters now become stronger in a \"less opaque\" fashion, with more defined growth tables for each playable character. A new multiplayer boss arena allows up to four players to battle the game's bosses to win various rare items. The remake's 2009 release coincided with the 20th anniversary of the \"SaGa\" series, and the remake was made available as part of a limited-edition Nintendo DSi bundle.\n\nAs of January 2009, the Game Boy release of \"Final Fantasy Legend II\" has sold an estimated 850,000 copies in Japan since its release in December 1990. In March 2006, the title was voted the 94th best game of all time by the readers of \"Famitsu\" magazine as part of its \"All Time Top 100\" poll. The Nintendo DS remake received a 31 out of 40 scores from Japanese \"Weekly Famitsu\" magazine. The game sold 146,000 copies by October 2009.\n\nThe game was mostly well-received during its release in North America. \"Nintendo Power\" declared it to be superior to its predecessor, calling it \"longer and more involving than Square Soft's original Game Boy RPG\". The magazine also found it to be more user-friendly, stating that it \"includes features that will make playing more enjoyable for both RPG enthusiasts and beginners\", but found it mostly lacking in play control. During their annual Nintendo Power Awards, \"Final Fantasy Legend II\" was nominated for \"Most Challenging Game Boy Game\" of 1991. In their review of the 1998 re-release, IGN found that the game had aged when compared to more modern role-playing titles and that \"gamers jaded with today's FMVs and polygon graphics may find it hard to get drawn into a game with simple sprite characters.\" Regardless of the game's antiquity, the website still found it to be a solid game with \"great character development, a breathtaking score and a solid Role-Playing game engine, there is very little that stands in the way of an RPG gamer and this title,\" calling it \"by far\" the best of the \"Final Fantasy Legend\" games. The game maintains a 90% average rating on aggregate review website GameRankings based on two reviews.\n\nGameDaily named it alongside the related Game Boy \"Final Fantasy\" titles as definitive games for the system, describing it as providing \"hours of role-playing excitement, whether you were waiting in a dentist's office or on the way to Grandma's house.\" The sentiment was shared by gaming magazines \"Electronic Gaming Monthly\" and \"Pocket Games\", the latter of which ranked the titles together 8th out of the Top 50 games for the Game Boy.\n"}
{"id": "2063452", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2063452", "title": "Mable John", "text": "Mable John\n\nMable John (born November 3, 1930) is an American blues vocalist and was the first female signed by Berry Gordy to Motown's Tamla label.\n\nJohn was born in Bastrop, Louisiana, the eldest of at least nine siblings. At a very young age, she and her parents moved north into Arkansas, where her father got a job in a paper mill near Cullendale, where four of Mable's brothers (including R&B singer Little Willie John) and two sisters were born.\n\nIn 1941, after her father was able to secure a better job, the family moved to Detroit, where two additional brothers were born. She attended Cleveland Intermediate School, and then Pershing High School. After graduating, she took a job as an insurance representative at Friendship Mutual Insurance Agency, a company run by Berry Gordy's mother, Bertha.\n\nLater, she left the company and spent two years at Lewis Business College. She subsequently ran into Mrs. Gordy again, who told Mable that her son, Berry, was writing songs and was looking for people to record them. Gordy began coaching her and would accompany John on piano at local engagements. This continued until 1959, when John performed at the Flame Show bar on John R Street at the last show that Billie Holiday did in Detroit, just weeks before Holiday's death.\n\nThe same year, John began recording for Gordy. First she was signed to United Artists, but nothing was released there. Eventually, she became one of the first artists signed to Tamla, Gordy's own label.\n\nIn 1960, she released her first Tamla single, \"Who Wouldn't Love a Man Like That?,\" a romantic blues number, to no success. John followed with \"No Love\" in June of that year and then with \"Actions Speak Louder Than Words\" by year's end. While Motown was beginning to have success with acts like the Miracles and the Marvelettes (and later Martha & the Vandellas and the Supremes, both of whom had sung background vocals for John) that appealed to teenagers and young adults, it was making no impact in the established blues market. As a result, Gordy soon thinned out his roster of early blues artists. While John continued to be used as a background singer, Gordy dissolved her contract in 1962.\n\nAfter leaving Motown, John spent several years as a Raelette, backing many Ray Charles hits. In 1966 she attempted a solo career again, signing with Stax Records. Her first single with the label was \"Your Good Thing Is About To End.\" The song peaked at #6 on the R&B chart, and even managed to cross over onto pop radio, peaking at #95 there. She released six more singles for the label, none of which captured her first single's success. After leaving Stax Records in 1968, John rejoined the Raelettes for several years. She left secular music in 1973, and began managing Christian gospel acts, occasionally returning to the studio as a singer.\n\nIn 1986, John founded a charity that feeds the homeless in Los Angeles, Joy Community Outreach. She released a single on the London-based Motown revival label Motorcity Records entitled \"Time Stops\" in 1991. In 1993, John earned a Doctor of Divinity degree from the south Los Angeles ministry Crenshaw Christian Center.\n\nIn 2006, Mable and David Ritz collaborate on a fictional publication titled Sanctified Blues, about a former singer turned spiritual leader.\n\nIn 2008, Mable played Bertha Mae, a veteran blues singer in Honeydripper (film).\n\nMable John received a Pioneer Award from the Rhythm and Blues Foundation in 1994. She appeared in John Sayles' 2007 movie \"Honeydripper\" and the 2014 Oscar-winning documentary \"20 Feet from Stardom\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2063454", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2063454", "title": "Paul Vallas", "text": "Paul Vallas\n\nPaul Gust Vallas (born June 10, 1953) is an American politician and former superintendent of the Bridgeport Public Schools and the Recovery School District of Louisiana, former CEO of both the School District of Philadelphia and the Chicago Public Schools, and a former budget director for the city of Chicago. He ran for Lieutenant Governor of Illinois in 2014 with then-incumbent Governor Pat Quinn, though the Democratic ticket was defeated by the Republican ticket, which included Bruce Rauner and Evelyn Sanguinetti.\n\nIn March 2018, Vallas announced his candidacy for Mayor of Chicago in the 2019 election.\n\nVallas was born on June 10, 1953. The grandson of Greek immigrants, Vallas grew up in the Roseland neighborhood on Chicago's South Side. He spent his teen years living in Palos Heights. He graduated from Carl Sandburg High School and attended Moraine Valley Community College and then Western Illinois University, where he received a bachelor's degree in history and political science, a master's degree in political science, and a teaching certificate.\n\nDuring his tenure as CEO of the Chicago Public Schools from 1995 to 2001, he led an effort to reform the school system, and his work was cited by President Bill Clinton for raising test scores, balancing the budget, and instituting several new programs including mandatory summer school, after school programs, and expanding alternative, charter, and magnet schools.\n\nThe position of CEO of the CPS was created by Mayor Richard M. Daley after he successfully convinced the Illinois State Legislature to place CPS under mayoral control. Vallas had previously directed the budget arm of the Illinois State Legislature and served as budget director for Daley.\n\nFollowing his tenure at CPS, Vallas ran for Governor of Illinois as a Democrat. Vallas placed second in the Democratic primary, losing narrowly to now-former-Governor Rod Blagojevich while running ahead of former state Attorney General Roland Burris.\n\nFollowing the election, Vallas was appointed CEO of School District of Philadelphia. In this capacity, he presided over the nation's largest experiment in privatized management of schools, with the management of over 40 schools turned over to outside for-profits, nonprofits, and universities beginning in Fall 2002.\n\nIn 2005, Vallas considered challenging Blagojevich again for Illinois governor in the Democratic Primary but decided against it. He then signed a two-year contract (2007–2008) as superintendent of the Recovery School District of Louisiana. Vallas ultimately remained head of the Recovery School District through 2011.\n\nOn April 28, 2008 he appeared before the City Club of Chicago and on Chicago news shows discussing a possible run for governor in 2010. In February 2009, Vallas gave an interview to Carol Marin in the \"Chicago Sun-Times\" and stated that he planned to return to Cook County, Illinois in 2009 and run as a Republican for Cook County Board president in 2010.\n\nOn June 11, 2009, Vallas announced that he would not be a candidate for President of the Cook County Board of Commissioners in 2010. Vallas stated that he could not \"begin a political campaign while trying to finish what he started—rebuild the school system there in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina.\"\n\nAfter Haiti's 2010 earthquake, President René Préval gave the Inter-American Development Bank the mandate to work with the Education Ministry and the National Commission preparing a major reform of the Education System in a 5-year plan to reconstruct; Mr. Vallas has been working with the bank in this effort.\n\nIn 2013, Vallas became Superintendent of the Bridgeport Public Schools. On June 28, 2013, a state superior court judge ruled that Vallas did not complete a state-mandated school leadership program and was therefore not qualified to be superintendent in Connecticut. On July 17, 2013 the State Supreme Court agreed to hear an appeal of the ruling and to decide if he should remain in office. This followed several months of controversy over Vallas' credentials to serve as superintendent in the state of Connecticut.\n\nIn November 2013, Illinois Governor Pat Quinn tapped Vallas to be his running mate in the 2014 election, after incumbent lieutenant governor Sheila Simon chose to unsuccessfully run for Comptroller. Quinn and Vallas lost the election to the Republican ticket of Bruce Rauner and Evelyn Sanguinetti.\n\nIn March 2018, Vallas formally filed to become a candidate in the 2019 Chicago mayoral election.\n\nWhen he entered the race, Vallas was seen to be a potentially strong opponent to incumbent Rahm Emanuel, who was seeking reelection at the time.\n\nAmong the numerous candidates to enter the race after Emanuel withdrew was Gery Chico, Vallas' one-time political ally, with whom he oversaw Chicago Public Schools. Vallas had endorsed Chico for mayor in 2011. Despite this history, Vallas did not hesitate to criticize Chico as a mayoral opponent.\n\nVallas staked a large part of his candidacy on his record as head of Chicago Public Schools, arguing that he helped to turn around the school system, and that his leadership left the system in better shape. Vallas claimed that the Chicago Public Schools were healthier under his leadership than then were in 2019. PolitiFact rated this claim as \"mostly true\".\n\nAs a candidate, Vallas pledged to combat political corruption in Chicago's City Hall.\n\nVallas' campaign sent unsolicited text messages. The campaign employed North Carolina-based firm Link2Tek to accomplish this. In mid-January, a class-action lawsuit was filed against the Vallas campaign, alleging that it had violated the Telephone Consumer Protection Act of 1991, which prohibits calling or texting a person using an automatic telephone dialing system without their consent. Vallas accused the lawsuit of being, \"a dirty trick\" orchestrated by the \"political machine\". \n\nIn the first round of the election, Vallas placed ninth out of fourteen candidates, receiving 30,236 votes (5.43% of the votes cast). Failing to advance to the runoff, Vallas endorsed Lori Lightfoot.\n\n"}
{"id": "2063459", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2063459", "title": "Preston Corderman", "text": "Preston Corderman\n\nWilliam Preston Corderman (December 1, 1904 in Hagerstown, Maryland – March 4, 1998 in Fort Belvoir, Virginia) was a US Army Officer. \n\nFrom July 1, 1943 to September 14, 1945, Corderman was commander of the Signals Security Agency. From September 15, 1945 to March 31, 1946, he was Chief of the U.S. Army Security Agency. \n\nCorderman was promoted to the rank of Major General on July 1, 1951.\n\nGeneral Corderman is a member of the Military Intelligence Hall of Fame.\n"}
{"id": "2063461", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2063461", "title": "Fire chief's vehicle", "text": "Fire chief's vehicle\n\nA fire chief's vehicle, also called a chief unit, fire chief's car, battalion chief's vehicle, Fly Car, Fly Vehicle, fire car or command vehicle is the car used by a fire chief at fire scenes. Its specialized markings clearly indicate the Chief's rank.\nIn the 19th century chief's vehicles were horse-drawn, and known as a Chief's buggy. After 1900 most fire departments rapidly moved to the use of the automobile as the fire chief's car. \n\nIn the United States, modern fire chiefs' cars tend to be very similar to police cars (except the car will usually be all red) and are equipped with lightbars or light beacons, sirens and long-range and short-range radios. Many fire departments in the United States use modified SUVs as their chief response vehicle. Each fire chief's vehicle can be driven/operated by an assistant to the Fire Chief, Deputy Chief, Division Chief or Battalion Chief known as a Chief's Driver, Chief's Aide, Chief's Operator, or Incident Support Specialist. \n\nIn the United Kingdom, the Station Managers car (Fire Chief) is usually unmarked and personally owned by the Manager. The car will be fitted out with the necessary equipment such as blue lights and sirens.\n\n"}
{"id": "2063462", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2063462", "title": "Sidney Armus", "text": "Sidney Armus\n\nSidney Armus (December 19, 1924 – June 21, 2002) was an American actor. \n\nBorn in the Bronx, New York, he made his Broadway debut in the original production of the musical \"South Pacific\" in 1949. Prior to that he spent six months in England playing the role of \"Stefanowski\" in the London company of \"Mister Roberts\", which starred Tyrone Power. Armus appeared in many off-Broadway productions in New York before his debut. \n\nWhile studying with Erwin Piscator at the Dramatic Workshop of the New School for Social Research, he was seen in 'The Flies,' 'There is No End,' and 'Crew 55' (sourced from the original theatre program for 'South Pacific', 1949.)\n\nSidney played the character of \"Itchy\" Flexner, the social director, in the Broadway production of the musical comedy \"Wish You Were Here\" which opened at the Imperial Theatre on June 25, 1952 and closed on November 28, 1953 after 598 performances. \"Wish You Were Here\" is a musical with a book by Arthur Kober and Joshua Logan and music and lyrics by Harold Rome. The musical was adapted from Kober's 1937 play, \"Having Wonderful Time\", and revolves around a summer camp for adults.\n\nOther Broadway productions Sidney appeared in on Broadway were \"The Flowering Peach\" (1954), \"The Cold and the Warm\" (1958) with Suzanne Pleshette and Maureen Stapleton, and \"Harold\" (1962).\n\nIn films, Armus had memorable roles in \"Sleepless in Seattle\", \"One Fine Day\", \"Postcards From The Edge\", and \"The Thomas Crown Affair\". In television he appeared on \"Columbo\", \"Kojak\", and \"The Defenders\", as well as many 1950s early television dramas such as \"Goodyear Playhouse\" and \"The United States Steel Hour\". \n\nIn the early 90s, Armus appeared in several \"Law & Order\" episodes playing various judges.\n\nIn his later career he owned and operated Theatre 22, an Off-Off-Broadway theater in New York City, where he directed plays.\n\nHe died in Manhattan, New York of cancer.\n\n"}
{"id": "2063464", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2063464", "title": "Edmonton East (provincial electoral district)", "text": "Edmonton East (provincial electoral district)\n\nEdmonton East was a provincial electoral district in Alberta, Canada.\n\nThe district was created in 1917, out of the Edmonton District. In 1921, the district was merged with Edmonton South and Edmonton West to form the second incarnation of the Edmonton District. Such occurrence is still a controversy in the area.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2063465", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2063465", "title": "Edward Partridge", "text": "Edward Partridge\n\nEdward Partridge Sr. (August 27, 1793 – May 27, 1840) was one of the earliest converts to the Latter Day Saint movement and served as its first Bishop of the Church.\n\nEdward Partridge was the grandson of Massachusetts Congressman Oliver Partridge, Esq., and a member of a family noted for commercial, social, political, and military leadership in Western Massachusetts.\n\nPartridge owned a hat-making factory and retail store in Painesville, Ohio. He was sent to New York in 1830 by a group of Painesville citizens to investigate the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints. He was baptized a member of the Church of Christ, later renamed The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, in or near Seneca Lake, New York, on December 11, 1830, and upon his return to Painesville discovered that his wife had also become a convert.\n\nTwo months later in Kirtland, Ohio, Partridge became the first to hold the prominent position of bishop. In this position he helped lead the Mormon settlement in Jackson County, Missouri, and managed land distribution under the law of consecration. He was tarred and feathered by an anti-Mormon mob in July 1833, then forced to move to Clay County, Missouri, followed by Caldwell County in 1836. During 1835, he served a mission in Illinois, Iowa, Ohio, and Indiana, then entered into another mission in New York and New England. Following the 1838 Mormon War, Partridge was jailed in Richmond, Missouri; in 1839, he was expelled from the state.\n\nPartridge expended much of his wealth in support of the movement before he died in late May 1840 at Nauvoo, Illinois. Joseph Smith suggested that Partridge's death could be attributed to the stress and persecution which he and other Mormon settlers in western Missouri were subjected to in the 1830s.\n\nAfter Partridge died, his widow Lydia married William Huntington, father of Zina D. H. Young.\n\nPatridge's ancestors include the early American poets Rev. Edward Taylor and Anne Bradstreet. His forebears also include a number of notable Anglo-American religious leaders including the Rev. John Cotton, Dean of Emmanuel College, Cambridge who was the spiritual leader of the New England colonies; Rev. Solomon Stoddard, one of the most influential colonial ministers and the grandfather of the famous Rev. Jonathan Edwards and ancestor of United States Vice President Aaron Burr (Edward Partridge and Aaron Burr are 3rd cousins)\n\nPartridge's ancestors also include a number of significant early political leaders in Colonial American and early U.S. history, including Connecticut Governor Thomas Welles, Massachusetts Governor John Haynes, Connecticut Governor George Wyllys, Massachusetts Governor Thomas Dudley, and Massachusetts Governor Simon Bradstreet. His daughter Emily Partridge was a plural wife of Joseph Smith, and the future first Territorial Governor of Utah, Brigham Young. His daughter Eliza Maria Partridge also married Joseph Smith, and then Utah Territorial Legislator Amasa M. Lyman, delegate to the California Constitutional Convention and leader of the first organized Anglo-American colony in Southern California. His son Edward Partridge Jr. was a member of the Utah Territorial Legislature and a delegate to the Utah Constitutional Convention.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2063469", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2063469", "title": "Newel K. Whitney", "text": "Newel K. Whitney\n\nNewel Kimball Whitney (February 5, 1795 – September 23, 1850, his first name being sometimes found as Newell) was a prominent member and leader in the Latter Day Saint movement and an American businessman. Whitney married Elizabeth Ann Smith in 1822. He owned a store and an ashery in Kirtland, and acquired more property as his business grew. Initially he was part of the Disciples of Christ or Campbellite movement. He joined the early Latter Day Saint church, called the Church of Christ, in 1830 after his Campbellite bishop, Sidney Rigdon also joined the church. Whitney greatly contributed financially to the growing church, paying taxes on its property and paying off the debts incurred by the United Firm. He traveled to other states for business and as part of his duties as a Bishop. In Nauvoo, he was part of the Quorum of the Anointed, consented for his daughter to become a plural wife of Joseph Smith, and participated in plural marriage. He served as the second Presiding Bishop of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church) from 1847 until his death. He died in 1850 of pleurisy.\n\nWhitney was born in Marlborough, Vermont to Samuel Whitney and Susanna Kimball. He was the second of nine children. In 1803, he moved with his family to Fairfield, Herkimer Co., New York.\n\nIn 1814, Whitney worked as an army sutler, selling supplies to American soldiers near Lake Champlain during the War of 1812. Whitney lost all of his possessions in the Battle of Plattsburgh, but continued to work as a sutler for the army until they disbanded around Monroe, Michigan. Whitney traded furs and other goods with Native Americans between the great lakes, often stopping in Monroe for supplies, where Algernon Sidney Gilbert had a store. According to Orson F. Whitney, when Whitney refused to sell alcohol to an alcoholic, the customer threatened his life, but a Native American woman named Moudalina saved him. Gilbert and Whitney may have traveled together to New York, and they were friends. In 1817, Whitney moved to Painesville, Ohio and worked as a clerk for Gilbert, who taught him bookkeeping.\n\nDuring his travels, Whitney met Ann Smith, who lived in Kirtland. Whitney moved to Kirtland in 1819 to court Smith, and they married on October 20, 1822 in Geauga County, Ohio. In Kirtland, Whitney set up a small log cabin store in 1821 or 1822. On June 1, 1822, Whitney purchased an apple orchard at the intersection of two main roads in northern Ohio, and by 1824 had built the Red Store there. Whitney bought the lot diagonally opposite the Red Store lot on September 1822, where he made an ashery. The combined businesses helped Kirtland's local economy. Sometimes customers at his store would pay him in wood at the ashery. Wool carders would buy the potash to process their wool. In June 1824 Whitney expanded the ashery and built a home behind the Red Store.\n\nAfter the Erie Canal was constructed in 1825, it decreased the price of transportation of goods to Kirtland. In April 1826, Whitney bought the lot east of the Red Store and built a medium-sized store on, which the family called the White Store. By 1827, Whitney entered into a partnership with Gilbert to run a store in Kirtland known as N.K. Whitney & Co. After the White Store opened, the Gilberts probably moved into the Red Store. In 1828, Elizabeth's widowed sister and three children moved to Kirtland and helped to work in the store. Whitney anticipated that he could make more money in the store after the decrease in the price of goods, but he could not afford to support his own family and Gilbert's. He greatly expanded the ashery in 1828. On March 5, 1829, N.K. Whitney and Sidney Gilbert & Co. purchased the southeast corner lot for an unknown purpose.\n\nSometime after their marriage, N.K. and Ann joined the Disciples of Christ or Campbellites. Sidney Rigdon was a bishop in the movement and baptized members. Ann worried about how Campbellites did not claim to have the authority to give members the Holy Ghost. N.K. served in the community as an elector and as a vice president of the Tract Society, part of the Grand River Bible Society. N.K. and Ann joined the Church of Christ (Latter Day Saints) in 1830 without having read \"The Book of Mormon\". Many of their neighbors joined the church around the same time, including the Gilberts in 1831. The Whitneys provided their home for at least one congregational meeting, and donated wine for the sacrament. The prophet Joseph Smith and his family came to stay with the Whitneys for several weeks in 1830 before moving to Isaac Morley's house and soon a new house on his property.\n\nDuring this time, Ann Whitney had five children. Their eldest, Horace, was born in 1823. Horace later married and is the father of Orson F. Whitney.\n\nJoseph Smith and Whitney were good friends. From 1832–1836, Smith and his family lived in the White Store. The first School of the Prophets was held in an upstairs room there, and Joseph Smith received several revelations there, including the Word of Wisdom. During 1832, Smith and Whitney visited Missouri, where Smith received a revelation that Whitney and other church leaders had \"equal claim\" on his properties for taking care of the poor, which would be the United Firm. In 1833, Joseph Smith washed the feet of those in the School of the Prophets, a precursor to the washing and anointings.\n\nIn 1831, Whitney was appointed as a bishop in the church. At the time, Edward Partridge was the only other bishop who had been called. Whitney made personal decisions about how a bishop should support his local community.\nHe continued to operate his store as normal and offered limited support for the poor in an early bishop's storehouse. Two men accused Whitney of being overbearing and disrespectful. Whitney supported Gilbert's store in Missouri, which he started in 1831 and abandoned in 1833 when the members of the church were driven out of the state. Early in 1832, Reynolds Cahoon was appointed as Whitney's counselor.\n\nIn 1832, on the way back from Missouri, Whitney broke his leg and foot in a wagon accident, and Smith and Whitney stayed in a public house in Greenville for four weeks while he recovered. Later that year, Newel was assigned to visit church members in New York, Albany, and Boston. Acting as the church's financial officer, the United Firm acquired over 100 acres of land in Kirtland, which Whitney paid taxes on. Whitney's ashery became the site of the Kirtland Temple, whose construction began in 1833.\n\nIn 1833, the Overseers of the poor made a warning list of 22 unemployed families that might be expelled from Kirkland for being too dependent on their community. At the time, this was a fairly common practice, although such a long list was unusual. Such a list shows the extent that the church (and Whitney) must have been supporting its members, many of whom were working to construct the temple. The United Firm was dissolved in 1834, with Whitney paying the debts members owed to each other. The United Firm then wrote off over $3,000 of debt, and members decided to do business individually. The same year, Sidney Gilbert died of cholera, and N.K. Whitney and Company was dissolved in 1838. Whitney's ashery probably burned in 1834.\n\nIn 1835, Whitney and Hyrum Smith went to New York to borrow money and buy goods. These goods helped supply new stores established by other church members. Whitney helped Joseph Smith establish a store in Kirtland, but it was disbanded a year later, probably because the town was already well-supplied by Whitney's store. On October 31, 1835, Whitney brought his parents to visit Kirtland, where they met Joseph Smith and were subsequently baptized. By 1836, Whitney was giving food to the poor and needy. The Whitneys moved to Missouri in 1838, where Whitney was appointed as a bishop, but persecution drove them to Illinois shortly after their move.\n\nWhile in Nauvoo, Illinois, Whitney was involved in some important developments within the Church. He was part of the Quorum of the Anointed and also joined in the practice of polygamy. On May 4, 1842 when Whitney, along with a group of nine others, met in the upper story of the Red Brick Store. Those who were there, including Whitney, became part of Joseph Smith's Quorum of the Anointed. Later, Whitney's wife, Elizabeth Ann, was added to the quorum. The Whitneys and the other members of the Quorum of the Anointed were \"some of the highest ranking and most trusted leaders of the LDS church.\"\n\nIn 1842, after being taught the doctrine of polygamy, Whitney and Elizabeth Ann agreed to let their daughter, Sarah Ann, become a plural wife of Joseph Smith. Two years later, Whitney married Olive M. Bishop as a plural wife. Also in 1844, Whitney became a member of the Council of Fifty and became First Bishop when Edward Partridge died. Whitney's \"First Bishop\" title was changed to \"Presiding Bishop\" in 1847. In 1845 he married Emmeline B. Woodworth Harris, Almira Elizabeth Pond, Abigail A. Pond, Elizabeth M. More, and Henrietta Keyes. He married Ann Houston in 1846 . Emmeline had married a young man when she was 15, but he deserted her after the death of their son. Whitney married Emmeline when she was seventeen and had two children with her. Later Emmeline married Daniel H. Wells and became a president of the Relief Society. Whitney also was sealed to Isabel Modalena and Melvina C. Blanch.\n\nAfter Joseph Smith's death, Whitney was a trustee-in-trust for the church. Whitney was a member of the Masonic Lodge in Nauvoo. He was an alderman in Nauvoo from 1841 to 1843. From 1846–1847, Whitney led Church members in settling at Winter Quarters.\n\nIn 1848, Whitney migrated to Utah, and in 1849 he was the bishop of the Salt Lake City Eighteenth Ward. Whitney helped place new immigrants in communities. He helped Brigham Young locate and plan Ogden, Utah. He died in 1850 of \"bilious pleurisy.\" LDS Church president Gordon B. Hinckley compared Whitney's role in the early church to a Presiding Bishop who oversees the Church's physical assets.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2063470", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2063470", "title": "List of identities in The Gangs of New York (book)", "text": "List of identities in The Gangs of New York (book)\n\nThis is a list of identities referenced in Herbert Asbury's 1928 book The Gangs of New York including underworld figures, gang members, crime fighters and others of the Old New York era from the mid- to late 19th and early 20th century. Some were also portrayed in Martin Scorsese's 2002 film \"Gangs of New York\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2063475", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2063475", "title": "Valerate", "text": "Valerate\n\nA valerate compound is a salt or ester of valeric acid. It is also known as pentanoate. The valerate anion is CHCOO (valeric acid minus one hydrogen ion H).\n\nMany steroid-based pharmaceuticals, for example ones based on betamethasone or hydrocortisone, include the steroid as the valerate ester. Betamethasone valerate has shown potential to treat vitiligo.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2063476", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2063476", "title": "Final Fantasy Legend III", "text": "Final Fantasy Legend III\n\nSaGa 3: Jikuu no Hasha, released in North America as Final Fantasy Legend III, is a role-playing video game developed and published by Square for the Game Boy. The third entry in the \"SaGa\" series, it released in Japan in 1990, and in North America in 1993. A later edition released in North America in 1998 through Sunsoft. A remake for the Nintendo DS was released in 2011 by Square Enix, remaining exclusive to Japan. The narrative follows a group of warriors as they fight a god-like being in the past, present and future. During gameplay, players explore the different time periods, fighting in turn-based battles, and raising character power through a combination of experience points, skill leveling, and material-based character classes.\n\nProduction began in 1990 in parallel with the development of \"Romancing SaGa\" for the Super Famicom. Due to his work on \"Romancing SaGa\", series creator Akitoshi Kawazu did not take part in the original production, with development instead handled by Square's newly-established Osaka studio. It was the final \"SaGa\" title developed for the Game Boy. Upon release, the game saw praise from Japanese and Western critics, with praise going to its graphics and narrative. As of 2002, the game had sold around 650,000 in Japan. It was the last Western \"SaGa\" release until \"SaGa Frontier\" for the PlayStation.\n\n\"SaGa 3: Jikuu no Hasha\", known in the West as \"Final Fantasy Legend III\", is a role-playing video game set in a science fiction-based world where players take on the role of a four-person party. In the world of \"SaGa 3\", a god-like being called the Pureland Water Entity engulfed the world in a great flood. The entity drew monsters onto the land and low lying cities have been abandoned. As a party of four warriors sets out to confront the entity, several youths from the future arrive to help, and it is realized that the Entity's destruction is occurring in the past and future as well. The group then collects pieces of the ship Talon in the past, present, and future to defeat the Entity.\n\nThe party explores different environments from a top-down perspective, talking with characters to advance the narrative, using shops to buy and sell items and equipment, and entering battles during exploration. Battles play out using a turn-based combat system, where party members attack enemies using their equipped weapons or magic spells.\n\nPlayers choose their basic characters from two different races, Humans and Mutants, who have different ways they can raise their experience levels. Humans raise their level using experience points in battle, while Mutants raise their attributes and kills based on usage in battles. Humans and Mutants can evolve into Monster or Cyborg character classes using items gained from enemies; Meat triggers evolution into Monsters, while mechanical parts help transform characters into Cyborgs. Characters are further customised by equipping magic stones, gaining access to new abilities.\n\nProduction for \"SaGa 3\" began in 1990, following the completion of the previous game. At the time, developer Square had started production on two parallel projects; \"SaGa 3\", and a Super Famicom entry titled \"Romancing SaGa\" begun at the request of Nintendo. Series creator Akitoshi Kawazu was completely occupied with developing \"Romancing SaGa\", making \"SaGa 3\" the only series title he was not involved in. Production was given by Kawazu to a newly-founded Square studio in Osaka, with Chihiro Fujioka producing the game. \"SaGa 3\" was the first game produced by the Osaka studio.\n\nFujioka noted that in addition to creating the game, they were also establishing themselves as a department, and as a result a great deal of effort was put into the game. The team decided to overcome the Game Boy's limitations by leaving some aspects to the player's imagination instead. In the case of graphics, this meant establishing first an object, then its shadows, allowing the player to visualize the missing colors themselves; a similar concept was applied to the game's music to overcome the limitation of working with only three notes for composition. In contrast to the previous \"SaGa\" titles, \"SaGa 3\" was designed to be more like a traditional role-playing game, though it retained character growth elements from earlier titles. The Japanese cover art was created by Katsutoshi Fujioka, who designed covers for the previous \"SaGa\" releases.\n\n\"SaGa 3\" was released by Square in Japan on December 13, 1991. In North America, the game was released by Square in August 1993. Sunsoft later licensed the game for a reprint in April 1998 alongside the other three Square titles for the Game Boy. As with the first two \"SaGa\" games, \"SaGa 3\" was retitled \"Final Fantasy Legend III\" for the West by Square, capitalizing on the popularity of the \"Final Fantasy\" brand to grow their regional presence. The English translation was the first project of translator Ted Woolsey at Square. He was given the \"Final Fantasy IV\" translation as an example and instructed to ensure \"there were no 'repeats' of that mess\". It was the last \"SaGa\" title for the Game Boy, and the last \"SaGa\" title to receive a Western release for five years until \"SaGa Frontier\" for the PlayStation.\n\nThe game's music was co-composed by Ryuji Sasai and Fujioka. The two had worked together before Fujioka joined Square, so he brought on Sasai to compose the soundtrack. As Fujioka worked on the game's programming, Sasai stated he would handle the game's music; though a musician himself, Fujioka opted to contribute four additional songs to the game. Sasai compared the limitations with the audio to a guitar capable of only six tones, though the cartridge capacity for the Game Boy at the time provided some difficulty. As a result, they concentrated on smaller songs, reducing the length of the tracks until they felt the music gave the proper impression.\n\nA remake for the Nintendo DS titled \"SaGa 3 Jikū no Hasha: Shadow or Light\" was announced in September 2010. It featured many staff members from the remake of the second \"SaGa\" game, including producer Hiroyuki Miura, and character designer Gen Kobayashi. Sasai returned to work on the music alongside Kenji Ito. The remake retained the original story, but removed the experience point-based leveling while incorporating established \"SaGa\" mechanics of skill and statistic leveling based on player actions, nonlinear storytelling and exploration, and upgrades to the party's ship.\n\nProduction began following completion of the \"SaGa 2\" remake, with the team using experience from that production and applying it to remaking the third \"SaGa\" title. As with \"SaGa 2\", the game was developed by Racjin under the supervision of Square Enix. With the remake, Kawazu wanted to redesign the gameplay and scenario to be more in line with other entries in the \"SaGa\" series. He also wanted to incorporate mechanics new to the \"SaGa\" series, resulting in far more changes being made than to the \"SaGa 2\" remake. This mechanic, dubbed \"Time Gear\", allowed the team to further incorporate the time travel elements into the whole experience.\n\nThe remake was released on January 6, 2011. Like the DS remake of \"SaGa 2\", the \"SaGa 3\" remake remains exclusive to Japan, though a fan translation was developed. Kawazu attributed the lack of localization to uncertainty within Square Enix as to whether the West would accept such an unconventional title.\n\n\"Final Fantasy Legend III\" received mostly positive reviews, maintaining a 71% aggregate score on GameRankings. \"Electronic Gaming Monthly\" called it \"a good RPG\" and \"definitely a good buy\", citing the game's graphics and story as its high points, giving it four reviewer scores of 8 out of 10 and an Editor's Choice Gold Award. \"Nintendo Power\" largely agreed, stating that the game had \"[e]xcellent game depth and good graphics for a Game Boy RPG\", but found the title's story and gameplay to be too similar to previous \"Final Fantasy Legend\" games, warning \"don't expect anything new in this game\", giving the game a score of 3.35 / 5. IGN called attention to the game's dated graphics and \"imperfect\" soundtrack, yet still found the game's music to be better than most Game Boy titles. They additionally found fault with the game's \"poorly designed\" equipment screen, stating it \"makes distinguishing equipped items of the same class almost impossible\", though declared it to be accessible even to novice players. \"GamePro\" applauded the game for the battle simulator feature, the ability to transform the character using parts of slain enemies, and the booklets and map included in the game box. The made special note of the time travel mechanic, commenting that the experience of encountering characters in the past that the player has already met in the future is empowering and often humorous.\n\nGameDaily named it alongside the related Game Boy \"Final Fantasy\" titles as definitive games for the system, describing it as providing \"hours of role-playing excitement, whether you were waiting in a dentist's office or on the way to Grandma's house.\" The sentiment was shared by gaming magazines \"Electronic Gaming Monthly\" and \"Pocket Games\", the latter of which ranked the titles together 8th out of the Top 50 games for the Game Boy.\n\nAs of 2002, the game had sold 650,000 units, making it the third best-selling title of the Game Boy \"SaGa\" releases, and the lowest-selling original \"SaGa\" title as of that time.\n"}
{"id": "2063477", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2063477", "title": "Athletics at the 1908 Summer Olympics – Men's 800 metres", "text": "Athletics at the 1908 Summer Olympics – Men's 800 metres\n\nThe men's 800 metres made its fourth Olympic appearance at the 1908 Summer Olympics. The competition was held on July 20, 1908 and on July 21, 1908. The races were held on a track of 536.45 metres= mile in circumference. It was run in two rounds, with the winners of the eight heats of the first round competing in the final.\n\n38 runners from eleven nations competed. NOCs could enter up to 12 athletes.\n\nThese were the standing world and Olympic records (in minutes) prior to the 1908 Summer Olympics.\n\n\"(*)\" unofficial 880 yards (= 804.68 m)\n\n\"(**)\" This track was 536.45 metres= mile in circumference.\n\nIn the final Mel Sheppard set a new Olympic and a new unofficial world record, his time of 1:52.8 being 3.2 seconds faster than the pace set by fellow American runner James Lightbody four years earlier.\n\nThe semifinals were held on July 20, 1908. The winner of each heat advanced to the final the next day, with all other runners eliminated.\n\nAshford went out fast, but tired quickly. The race was a tight match between Bodor, Butterfield, and Björn, each of whom led at times. Lightbody, the defending champion, was always close behind. \n\nThe second heat was less eventful than the preceding one, with Sheppard leading most of the way; Lintott closed quickly but was four yards behind at the finish. \n\nHalstead took the lead after 500 metres and held on to beat Lee by two yards. \n\nLunghi broke away from the pack near the end of the first lap, leading the rest of the way.\n\nThe fifth heat was the closest of the first round, despite Beard leading the entire way. Buddo and Astley both made tremendous efforts to catch up in the second lap. Astley caught and passed Buddo, but was unable to do the same with Beard, who won by a foot.\n\nJust won by fifty yards. \n\nBromilow led for most of the race, but Braun used the last turn to move from third to first. \n\nWhile not having quite the dominant lead that his countryman Just had in the sixth heat, Crawford won by fifteen yards.\n\nThe final was held on July 21, 1908. Crawford started out fast, leading by fifteen yards halfway through the first lap, but at the end of the lap, he collapsed on the track from exhaustion. Sheppard then took the lead, with Lunghi and Just immediately behind. The time at the 400 metres mark was only 53 seconds. Just could not keep up the pace, fading back to fifth place. Lunghi's efforts were not enough for him to stay with Sheppard the entire way, and Sheppard won by 11 yards; the first four finishers broke James Lightbody's Olympic record of four years earlier. \n\n"}
{"id": "2063479", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2063479", "title": "Garrison B. Coverdale", "text": "Garrison B. Coverdale\n\nGarrison Barkley Coverdale (July 12, 1905 Arizona - June 8, 1988 Columbus, Georgia) was a US Army Officer. General Coverdale is a member of the Military Intelligence Hall of Fame.\n\nCoverdale was promoted to the rank of Brigadier General on June 13, 1953. From August 3, 1961 to June 30, 1966, Coverdale was Chief, Intelligence Corps.\n\nBrigadier General Coverdale served as Commander of the Tokyo-Yokohama District of the IX Corps from 1954–56 at Hardy Barracks, Tokyo. In 1956 he became Deputy Commanding General of the 1st Cavalry Division in Tokyo at Hardy Barracks with responsibility for the Tokyo-Yokohama District. General Coverdale returned to the United States in 1957 and shortly thereafter was promoted to Major General. He remained on active duty until 1966. In World War-2 he served in China in Army Intelligence.\n"}
{"id": "2063503", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2063503", "title": "Texas's 17th congressional district", "text": "Texas's 17th congressional district\n\nTexas's 17th congressional district of the United States House of Representatives includes a strip of central Texas stretching from Waco to Bryan-College Station, including former President George W. Bush's McLennan County ranch. The district is currently represented by Republican Bill Flores.\n\nFrom 2005 to 2013, it was an oblong district stretching from south of Tarrant County to Grimes County in the southeast. The 2012 redistricting made its area more square, removing the northern and southeastern portions, adding areas southwest into the northern Austin suburbs and east into Freestone and Leon counties. The district includes two major universities, Texas A&M University in College Station and Baylor University in Waco.\n\nBefore 2005, the district stretched from the Abilene area to the outer western fringes of the Dallas-Fort Worth Metroplex.\n\nAfter the 2003 Texas redistricting, engineered by former House Majority Leader Tom DeLay, TX-17 was (along with MS-4) the most heavily Republican district in the nation represented by a Democrat, according to the Cook Partisan Voting Index, which rated it R+20. The district was drawn to make it Republican-dominated and unseat its longtime then-incumbent, conservative Democrat Chet Edwards. While several of his colleagues went down to defeat, Edwards held on to the seat in the 2004, 2006 and 2008 elections.\n\nHowever, in the 2010 Congressional elections, the district elected Republican Bill Flores over Edwards by a margin of 61.8% to 36.6%. Flores is the only Republican elected to represent the district since its creation in 1919.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2063504", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2063504", "title": "J.T. Smith (wrestler)", "text": "J.T. Smith (wrestler)\n\nJohn T. Smith (born April 25, 1967) is an American retired professional wrestler, better known by his ring name, J.T. Smith. He is best known for his appearances with Extreme Championship Wrestling in the 1990s.\n\nSmith began his career in the Philadelphia-based Tri-State Wrestling Alliance, where he trained alongside The Sandman Tri-State Wrestling Alliance professional wrestling school. It was at this school that Smith assisted Terry Funk in the planning of the fight choreography of the climatic alley-way scene at the end of Rocky V. Smith's debut match occurred at Temple University in 1990 at McGonigle Hall as he wrestled to a draw with The Sandman. Fans and promoters were quick to note his wrestling skills and natural athletic ability and he continued to rise through the ranks. In early 1991, scored an upset win over veteran Buddy Landell to win the Heavyweight Championship. During this time, Smith worked as a movie theater projectionist, at Blockbuster, as a bouncer at a club, and at Tod Gordon's jewelry store and loan office, Carver W. Reed Co. Inc, in Philadelphia.\n\nIn December 1990, Smith appeared with the World Wrestling Federation as an enhancement talent, wrestling on \"WWF Superstars of Wrestling\" and \"WWF Wrestling Challenge\". On July 10, 1993, Smith had a dark match against The Sandman for World Championship Wrestling. At one point, Smith worked for the United States Wrestling Association. In May 1995, Smith accomplished a childhood dream of working in Japan by competing for W*ING, where he portrayed the character of \"Boogie Man\", whose likeness was based upon Michael Myers.\n\nSmith joined Tri-State Wrestling Alliance's successor Eastern Championship Wrestling (ECW) as a fan favorite, where he competed at the company's first event \"Market Street Mayhem\" on February 25, 1992 by teaming with DC Drake to wrestle Johnny Hotbody and Larry Winters to a double disqualification. The two teams met in a rematch on March 24, which Smith and Drake won. On April 25, Smith participated in a battle royal to qualify for a match to determine the inaugural ECW Heavyweight Champion. On June 23, Smith teamed with Jimmy Jannetty to participate in a tournament for the new ECW Tag Team Championship, where they lost to The Super Destroyers in the semi-final round.\n\nThe following year, Smith entered a tournament for the vacant ECW Television Championship, losing to Eddie Gilbert in the quarter-final round on the April 13, 1993 episode of \"Eastern Championship Wrestling\". On the June 8 episode of \"Eastern Championship Wrestling\", Smith entered a battle royal for the new Pennsylvania Heavyweight Championship, won by Tommy Cairo. Smith unsuccessfully challenged Jimmy Snuka for the Television Championship at Super Summer Sizzler. On the August 3 episode of \"Eastern Championship Wrestling\", Smith lost to The Dark Patriot, which was notable for the 20 foot fall Smith took from an upstairs announcing area onto the floor, followed by the Dark Patriot leaping from the upstairs area onto the back of Smith. This was regarded by many fans as the match that gave birth to ECW. This incident led to a scaffold match between Smith and Patriot at UltraClash, which Smith lost. Smith received a title shot against Shane Douglas for the Heavyweight Championship at \"NWA Bloodfest: Part 2\". During the match, Terry Funk threw in the towel for Smith but Smith threw it back on Funk's face. Smith lost the match and Funk attacked him after the match. On October 16, Smith won a battle royal in North East, Maryland to become the first Maryland Champion, thus winning his first title in the company. However, Smith would become the only person to hold the title due to it being abandoned later that year. At Holiday Hell, Smith and Tommy Cairo unsuccessfully challenged Kevin Sullivan and The Tazmaniac for the Tag Team Championship.\n\nSmith had a notable match at \"The Night the Line was Crossed\" on February 5, 1994, in which he defeated Mike Awesome. On the March 22 episode of \"Hardcore TV\", Smith defeated The Tazmaniac to win the Television Championship. During the match, Smith rescued Woman from The Public Enemy (Johnny Grunge and Rocco Rock), which resulted in a rivalry between Smith and Public Enemy. Smith successfully defended the title against Rockin' Rebel at the inaugural Ultimate Jeopardy event on March 26. He lost the title to The Pitbull on the April 19 episode of \"Hardcore TV\" after Public Enemy attacked Smith before the match. At \"When Worlds Collide\", Smith teamed with The Bruise Brothers (Don and Ron) to defeat Public Enemy, Mr. Hughes and Shane Douglas in a handicap elimination match when he became the survivor of his team by single-handedly eliminating Public Enemy.\n\nSmith's momentum would be slowed down in the following months. Smith attempted to regain the Television Championship from Jason on the September 13 episode of \"Hardcore TV\" but lost the match after suffering a knee injury. He wrestled The Public Enemy on several occasions in 1994 as he tried to win the World Tag Team Championship from Public Enemy with different tag team partners including The Sandman, Tommy Dreamer and Hack Meyers but failed to win the title. Smith defeated Hack Meyers at November to Remember. He would then face Stevie Richards in a losing effort at Holiday Hell. Smith took a hiatus from ECW in 1995 to compete in the Japanese promotion W*ING under the ring name The Boogie Man. For a time, Smith assisted in running the Philadelphia location of ECW's training school, \"House of Hardcore\". While there, Smith trained Francine Fournier.\n\nSmith returned to ECW after recovering from an injury at Wrestlepalooza on August 5, 1995, where he faced Hack Meyers in a match. Smith achieved his greatest success and biggest highlight of his ECW career in that match as a result of a legitimate mistake, as he attempted a suicide dive to the outside on Meyers, but failed to get enough elevation; his knee pads caught on the ropes and he landed head-first on the arena floor. This resulted in a large, softball-sized swelling on his head, but Smith was able to defeat Meyers with the help of Italian wrestler Val Puccio. Paul Heyman turned this into a comedic storyline where Smith's injury and resulting concussion gave him mild brain damage, and he began believing he was Italian, even talking with an Italian accent. Smith befriended Puccio, thus turning into a villain for the first time in his ECW career. The ECW fans jeered Smith when he attempted a move and failed, but this time with a degree of affection. At Gangstas Paradise, Smith faced Hack Meyers in a rematch, in which he got counted-out after missing a moonsault and crashing through a table outside the ring. At Holiday Hell, Smith botched a split-legged moonsault against Meyers, which led to Meyers winning the match.\n\nThis successful character continued, and resulted in the formation of a faction known as The Full Blooded Italians with Val Puccio. Puccio left ECW in 1995 while Smith continued the character on his own. At \"Massacre on Queens Boulevard\" on April 13, Smith introduced Damien Stone as his \"cousin\" and the newest member of the F.B.I., nicknaming him \"Little Guido\", which would become the ring name of Stone. While the F.B.I. claimed to be purebred Italians, the fact that Smith was African American, which made this claim obviously dubious. FBI feuded with The Dudleys and Hack Meyers throughout 1996. At November to Remember, Smith lost to 2 Cold Scorpio in a loser leaves town match, thus being banned from competition for thirty days. At Holiday Hell, Little Guido kicked Smith out of FBI due to Smith losing to Scorpio.\n\nSmith turned back into a fan favourite due to being kicked out of his own created F.B.I. by Little Guido and entered a rivalry with the Full Blooded Italians. He left ECW as a full-time competitor, returning to team with Chris Chetti to defeat Guido and Tracy Smothers in a non-televised tag team match at the Barely Legal pre-show. He then made his televised return for one night only at UltraClash on September 19, 1998, where he teamed with Tommy Rogers and Chris Chetti to defeat Little Guido, Tracy Smothers and Tommy Rich in an Italian Vendetta match. This would be Smith's last appearance in ECW and his last wrestling match as he retired from wrestling after the event.\n\nSmith retired after leaving ECW to pursue a career that allowed him to devote more time to his personal life and family. As of 2012, Smith was employed as an instructional support technologist at a community college in Virginia.\n\nSmith made an in-ring appearance at Ring of Honor's event \"All Star Extravaganza\" on November 9, 2002, where he was interviewed by Gary Michael Capetta, only to be interrupted by Special K.\n\nSmith appeared at both of the ECW reunion shows in June 2005. On June 10 at Hardcore Homecoming, he accompanied fellow former F.B.I. member Tracy Smothers to ringside for his match with The Blue Meanie and enabled Smothers to win when he struck Meanie with a pair of brass knuckles. Two days later at ECW One Night Stand, an ECW reunion show created by World Wrestling Entertainment, Smith and several other F.B.I. members accompanied Little Guido to ringside as he faced Super Crazy and Yoshihiro Tajiri in a three-way dance, but were unable to prevent him from being pinned and eliminated by Tajiri.\n\nSmith attributes having suffered between ten-to-sixteen concussions due to his time spent in the professional wrestling industry.\n\n"}
{"id": "2063509", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2063509", "title": "Ensemble average (statistical mechanics)", "text": "Ensemble average (statistical mechanics)\n\nIn statistical mechanics, the ensemble average is defined as the mean of a quantity that is a function of the microstate of a system, according to the distribution of the system on its micro-states in this ensemble.\n\nSince the ensemble average is dependent on the ensemble chosen, its mathematical expression varies from ensemble to ensemble. However, the mean obtained for a given physical quantity doesn't depend on the ensemble chosen at the thermodynamic limit.\nThe grand canonical ensemble is an example of an open system.\n\nFor a classical system in thermal equilibrium with its environment, the \"ensemble average\" takes the form of an integral over the phase space of the system:\n\nThe denominator in this expression is known as the partition function, and is denoted by the letter Z.\n\nIn quantum statistical mechanics, for a quantum system in thermal equilibrium with its environment, the weighted average takes the form of a sum over quantum energy states, rather than a continuous integral:\n\nThe generalized version of the partition function provides the complete framework for working with ensemble averages in thermodynamics, information theory, statistical mechanics and quantum mechanics.\n\nThe microcanonical ensemble represents an isolated system in which energy (E), volume (V) and the number of particles (N) are all constant.\n\nThe canonical ensemble represents a closed system which can exchange energy (E) with its surroundings (usually a heat bath), but the volume (V) and the number of particles (N) are all constant.\n\nThe grand canonical ensemble represents an open system which can exchange energy (E) as well as particles with its surroundings but the volume (V) is kept constant.\n\n"}
{"id": "2063511", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2063511", "title": "Benjamin Foulois", "text": "Benjamin Foulois\n\nBenjamin Delahauf Foulois (December 9, 1879 – April 25, 1967) was a United States Army general who learned to fly the first military planes purchased from the Wright Brothers. He became the first military aviator as an airship pilot, and achieved numerous other military aviation \"firsts\". He led strategic development of the Air Force in the United States.\n\nBenjamin \"Benny\" Delahauf Foulois was born on December 9, 1879, in Washington, Connecticut, to a Franco-American pipe-fitter and a Boston-born nurse.\n\nAt age 18, he used his older brother's birth certificate to enlist in the Army to support the Spanish–American War, but arrived in Puerto Rico just weeks before the armistice was signed. As an engineer, he fought off the rampant tropical diseases, and after five months, was shipped home and mustered out. On June 17, 1899, Foulois enlisted again, using his own name, as a private in the Regular Army and was assigned to the 19th Infantry, where he ultimately achieved the rank of first sergeant, with service in the Philippines on Luzon, Panay and Cebu. He was commissioned as a 2nd Lieutenant on July 9, 1901. Foulois returned to the United States in 1902 and transferred to the 17th Infantry. This regiment served in the Philippines from 1903 to 1905, and Foulois served in Manila, Cottabato and Mindanao, where he participated in engagements against the Lake Lanao Moros, successfully hunting down and defeating combatant tribal leaders, and as topographical officer for the regiment, participated in surveying and mapping expeditions.\n\nFoulois attended the Infantry and Cavalry School at Fort Leavenworth, Kansas, from September 1905 to August 1906. In 1907, he married Ella Snyder van Horn, the daughter of Colonel James Judson Van Horn. Assigned to attend the Army Signal School in the class of 1906-1907, he was recalled to his regiment in September 1906 for duty with an expeditionary force in Cuba during the Second Occupation of Cuba. His experience in surveying in the Philippines led to reassignment to the chief engineer of the force to perform military mapping. He was commissioned as a 1st lieutenant in the Signal Corps on April 30, 1908, assigned to the office of the Army's Chief Signal Officer (CSO), Brig. Gen. James Allen, and sent to complete Signal School, which he did in July 1908. His final thesis was \"The Tactical and Strategical Value of Dirigible Balloons and Aerodynamical Flying Machines\", within which he demonstrated prescience in such statements as this:\n\nHe forecast the replacement of the horse by the airplane in reconnaissance, and wireless air-to-ground communications that included the transmission of photographs. As a result, the CSO selected Foulois for the aeronautical board designated to conduct the 1908 airship and airplane acceptance trials. After having selected the Thomas Scott Baldwin airship as the winner of the trial, Foulois was selected as the first military crewman. He took his first flight on August 18 as engineer-pilot while Baldwin controlled the rudder at the aft end.\n\nFoulois' first aviation assignment was duty with the Aeronautical Division, U.S. Signal Corps, where he operated the first dirigible balloon of the U.S. Government. The crash of the Wright Military Flyer, procured at the same time by the Army on its final test flight, September 17, 1908, claimed the first US military airplane fatality, 1st Lt. Thomas E. Selfridge, and also injured Orville Wright. After one year, Foulois had concluded through his experience, understanding of military dirigibles in Europe, and talks with Tom Baldwin, that there was no military future for lighter-than-air aircraft. In expressing this opinion to the Army General Staff, Foulois recommended no more purchases of dirigibles, the first of many disagreements with the military establishment.\n\nThe Wright brothers spent ten months following the fatal crash making engineering improvements to the airplane. By July 1909, Orville was ready to complete the acceptance test for the Signal Corps. On July 30, 1909, Foulois' first flight in an aeroplane was the evaluation test flight from Fort Myer to Alexandria, Virginia. Pilot Orville Wright and Navigator Foulois broke previous speed, altitude and cross-country duration records, flying at 42.5 mph, 400 feet, and for . The Army purchased this Wright Model A Military Flyer, which became \"Signal Corps No. 1\". The final condition of the contract was to train two pilots.\n\nFoulois and Lieutenant Frank P. Lahm were initially designated to take direct instruction from the Wright brothers, but the CSO instead sent Foulois to Nancy, France in September 1909 as a delegate to the International Congress of Aeronautics, possibly as a result of resentment of his outspoken criticism of the dirigible. He returned on October 23 to College Park, Maryland, where Wilbur Wright had begun training Lahm and Lieutenant Frederick E. Humphreys. Humphreys made the first military solo in an airplane on October 26, 1909, followed by Lahm. Although not contractually obligated to do so, Wilbur took Foulois up and allowed him to handle the controls, then turned him over to Humphreys for instruction. Foulois totaled three hours and two minutes at the controls, virtually equaling the flight time of Humphreys and Lahm, but did not make any landings, nor did he solo. On November 5, Humphreys and Lahm cartwheeled S.C. No. 1 during landing, damaging the rudder and necessitating replacement of a wing, at a time when neither Wright brother was available. In addition, both officers were recalled to their branches of service.\n\nWhile waiting to repair the airplane, the Signal Corps decided to seek a more favorable climate location for flying during the winter. Foulois was directed to report to Fort Sam Houston in San Antonio, Texas where he was directed by CSO Allen to \"teach yourself to fly.\" He did so, and at 9:30 a.m. on March 2, 1910, on the Arthur MacArthur parade field made four flights on S.C. No. 1, which included his first solo takeoff, first solo landing, and first crash. Over the next fifteen months, Foulois modified S.C. No. 1's elevators at the instructions in correspondence from Orville Wright, and demonstrated the use of the Wright B aircraft for aerial mapping, photography, reconnaissance and the use of the radio while airborne. To end the requirement of using a 60-foot launch rail to take off, he drew up plans for and installed wheels in place of skids, and equipped the S.C. No. 1 with the first seat belt, using a four-foot leather cinch obtained from the cavalry saddlery. According to Foulois: \"The second flight I made after crashing the first time I took it up I got almost thrown out; landed; the artillery officer came up there and I told him, Fred, I wanted to get a belt to keep me in that damn plane. He said, whaddya want? and I said a strap about four feet long, something I can lash myself to the seat with. That was the first safety belt invented.\" As the result of repeated crashes and repairs, many caused by Foulois being \"ground shy\" (the result of his having no formal training in landing an airplane), S.C. No. 1 became unflyable, and in February 1911 the Army leased a Wright Model B from Robert Collier. Because Foulois was unfamiliar with the type, the Wright Company sent Philip O. Parmalee to instruct.\n\nIn early 1911, the United States gathered much of the Regular Army in south Texas as a show of force to Mexican revolutionaries, forming the \"Maneuver Division\". On March 3, 1911, Foulois and Parmalee made the first official military reconnaissance flight (without crossing the border), looking for Army troops between Laredo and Eagle Pass, Texas, with a ground exercise in progress. Two days later, returning from a cross-country flight, they accidentally shut off the engine, and in trying to restart it, crashed into the Rio Grande. Neither was injured and the airplane was eventually repaired and returned to Collier.\n\nFoulois was joined in April by three students from the Curtiss Aviation School in San Diego, including Capt. Paul W. Beck and 2nd Lt. George E. M. Kelly, to form a provisional \"aero company\" created April 5, 1911, by the Maneuver Division in anticipation of training 18 more pilots. Beck, like Foulois, was dual-commissioned in the Signal Corps and being senior, took command of the company, an action that Foulois resented. Friction and mutual rivalry with the new pilots also existed because they had no experience on the Wright machine, instead being trained on the Curtiss Military biplane. On May 3, 1911, Beck crashed the Curtiss machine after its engine failed at 300 feet. A week later, flying the same airplane after its repair, Kelly was killed trying to land minutes into his qualification flight.\n\nFoulois blamed Beck for improper repairs to the craft, and also questioned his ability to command. However the investigating board, of which both Foulois and Beck were members, ruled that Kelly's death resulted from landing at too high a speed and striking the ground with a wingtip when he attempted a turn. In any event, the army shut down all aviation training at Fort Sam Houston and sent pilots and airplanes to College Park, Maryland, where its first aviation school was about to commence. Beck was ordered there as the instructor on the Curtiss machine in June, but Foulois remained on duty with the Maneuver Division until July 11, when he was reassigned to the Militia Bureau in Washington D.C.\n\nFoulois was assigned as Officer In Charge, Signal Corps and Corps of Engineers Units in the Organized Militia. On April 29, 1912 his Signal Corps commission was discharged and he was nominally returned to the Infantry but remained with the Militia Bureau, where he was able to continue flying periodically at the aviation school in College Park. In July 1911 the Army adopted as its standard to be a military pilot the licensing requirements of the Fédération Aéronautique Internationale (F.A.I.), which the F.A.I. ruled on June 26, 1912 that he met, issuing FAI Certificate No. 140. In the meantime the Army published its own pilot qualification standards on April 20, 1912, and Foulois became the fifth army pilot to be rated a Military Aviator, on July 13. In October 1912 Foulois was returned to infantry troop duty under requirements of the \"Manchu Law\" and assigned to Fort Leavenworth with the 7th Infantry.\n\nFoulois was returned to aviation duty in November 1913 and detailed the next month to the Signal Corps Aviation School at North Island, San Diego, California, where the 1st Aero Squadron was officially constituted as a unit of the Signal Corps. In January 1914 the organization of the squadron was approved by the Chief Signal Officer and Foulois became commanding officer of its 1st Company, comprising three Burgess aircraft and 26 enlisted men. Later in 1914, Foulois became squadron commander. The Aeronautical Department experienced a spate of fatal accidents in 1912 and 1913, most involving the Wright Model C airplane, and convened a board of aviators to investigate safety concerns and make recommendations. Foulois, along with Captain Townsend F. Dodd and Lieutenants Walter R. Taliaferro, Carleton G. Chapman, and Joseph E. Carberry, condemned not just the Wright C but all \"pusher\" aircraft as unsafe on February 16, 1914, and those remaining in the Army inventory were ordered to be immediately grounded. The following month, the board drew up specifications for a tractor-configured training airplane.\n\nOn November 19, 1915, Foulois led the 1st Aero Squadron cross-country flight of six Curtiss JN3s from Post Field, Fort Sill, Oklahoma, to Ft Sam Houston, San Antonio, Texas, intended as the site for the first permanent base of the Aviation Section, the San Antonio Air Center. In 1916, Pancho Villa crossed into New Mexico and killed 17 Americans. In response, Brig. Gen. John J. Pershing was directed to pursue Villa into Mexico, and Foulois was ordered to take eight airplanes to provide reconnaissance and communication. On 15 March 1916, Foulois and the 1st Aero Squadron arrived at Columbus, New Mexico for duty. On 16 March, Foulois flew as the observer with Dodd on the first American military reconnaissance flight over foreign territory (overflying Mexico in search of Villa). Within eight weeks, six of the aircraft had been destroyed as the airplane could not contend with the high altitude, severe weather and dry atmosphere.\n\n\"Billy\" Mitchell and Foulois would clash bitterly over the years. Both were ambitious, strong-willed, independent thinkers, but Mitchell came from a wealthy family and was the son of a United States Senator. Foulois came from a middle-class family, and impressed his peers with his willingness to roll up his sleeves and work with the mechanics. Moreover, Mitchell had been senior to Foulois until their mutual service in France, and would be again following the war. Both would play an important role in the development of the independent Air Force, but Mitchell worked by swaying public opinion, while Foulois preferred to make direct testimony to Congress, with often controversial verbal attacks against the military establishment.\n\nFrom March to September 1917, General Foulois was charged with the responsibility for the production, maintenance, organization and operations of all American aeronautical material and personnel in the United States. In March Foulois worked with Major General George Squier, the Chief Signal Officer, and the National Advisory Committee for Aeronautics to detail plans for appropriations of $54 million to support 16 aero squadrons, 16 balloon companies, and nine aviation schools. The French government requested the U.S. provide 4,500 trained pilots by the Spring of 1918, which would require 4,900 training aircraft and 12,000 combat planes. The appropriation signed on July 24, 1917, was for $640 Million, the largest for a single purpose in the history of Congress. On the same date, Foulois was promoted from major to the temporary rank of Brigadier General, to enable him to oversee this responsibility.\nIn October 1917, he was transferred to France, and had the same responsibilities in France, the British Isles and Italy. In November 1917 he became Chief of Air Service, American Expeditionary Forces, and assumed additional duties as a member of the Joint Army and Navy Aircraft Committee in France; representative of the commander in chief, American Expeditionary Forces on the Inter-Allied Expert Committee on Aviation of the Supreme War Council, and commandant of the Army Aeronautical Schools. Resentment of Foulois's staff, with 112 officers and 300 enlisted men, most inexperienced and recently commissioned non-flying officers, led to strong criticism from Brigadier General Billy Mitchell, who commanded the Air Service Zone of Advance. In his Memoirs, Mitchell wrote:\n\n\"Just when things had begun to work smoothly, a shipment of aviation officers arrived under Brigadier General Benjamin Foulois, over one hundred in number, almost none of whom had ever seen an airplane. … As rapidly as possible, the competent men, who had learned their duties in the face of the enemy, were displaced and their positions taken by these carpetbaggers.\"\nFoulois responded: \n\n\"... this extract is proof of Mitchell’s disregard for facts\" and \"While Mitchell had every right to have an opinion about me and my staff, his attitude toward us made our jobs doubly difficult. The seeds of insubordination had already been sown when I relieved him, and his memoirs prove how distorted an opinion he had of himself as an expert on air matters.\"\n\nCreation and deployment of tactical squadrons lagged badly behind the schedule Foulois had promised Pershing, and the supply situation for the Air Service was not improving. Friction between Foulois' non-flying staff and the aviators in command of the instruction schools and the combat squadrons grew to the point of extreme inefficiency. In April 1918 Foulois tried to enforce a cooperative spirit from his own staff without success. In May he requested relief from his position as Chief of Air Service and recommended to General Pershing that Mitchell should be replaced. Pershing appointed Major General Mason M. Patrick to replace Foulois, who then became Patrick's assistant. Foulois was appointed Chief of Air Service, First Army, with Mitchell still his subordinate, made chief of Air Service I Corps. The ensuing change of command and the unceasing bitterness between the two men continued. Foulois asserted in his memoirs that while he felt Mitchell was openly insubordinate, disloyal to his superiors, and constantly deviating from the military chain of command in giving orders, Mitchell also possessed the ability and experience to supervise air battles and create a high fighting spirit, exemplified with the battle of Chateau-Thierry.\n\nThree months later, when a major loss of coordination between offensive units and replacement units occurred at Toul, Foulois again requested relief from his position, this time to again be in charge of Air Service logistics, to straighten out the snarled lines of communication before the major offensives in the fall. He also recommended that Mitchell replace him as Chief of Air Service, First Army. Foulois briefly became Assistant Chief of Air Service, Zone of Advance, but that position was eliminated when the Service of Supply created a forward headquarters near the front in addition to its main headquarters in Tours, and Foulois became the Assistant Chief of Air Service, Service of Supply.\n\nAfter the Armistice, November 11, 1918, Foulois served with Patrick on the Supreme War Council, assisting Patrick and Colonel Edgar S. Gorrell draft the air clauses of the Treaty of Versailles. Upon his return to the U.S. in July 1919, Foulois was assigned to the Office of the Director of Air Service at Washington, D.C., in charge of the Air Service Liquidation Division, responsible for the settlement of war claims against the United States. Just as quickly as he had been promoted to general officer rank, he was reduced along with thousands of other officers to his permanent establishment rank of captain, Infantry. He received promotion to major on July 1, 1920, when the Army Reorganization Act took effect, and transferred in grade to the Air Service, which the act had made a combat arm, on August 11.\n\nIn August 1919, Foulois appeared before the Frear subcommittee hearings on aviation during the war, and before the Senate Military Affairs Subcommittee considering the Crowell Commission report (which advocated an independent air force) in October. He testified with stinging accusations toward the Army General Staff and Franklin D. Roosevelt, the assistant Secretary of the Navy.\n\nHaving stirred up Washington, Foulois heard that a military attaché was needed in Europe with aviation expertise. He was sent in April 1920 to The Hague as assistant air attache, with observer duties in Berlin. At the same time his wife asked him for a divorce, which was decreed in 1921. (Ella Foulois later became the wife of General Harry Gore Bishop). Since the United States had not yet ratified the Treaty of Versailles, the allies would not share any intelligence with Foulois, and technically the U.S. was still at war with Germany. Foulois found that the Adlon Hotel bar in Berlin was frequented by many aviation cognoscenti. By sharing food and Allied whisky, Foulois was able to obtain a large amount of aviation intelligence from German pilots who included Ernst Udet and Hermann Göring. After gaining the confidence of these sources, Foulois was invited to join the two top aviation organizations in Germany: the German Aeronautical Scientific Society and the Aero Club of Germany. During his time in Berlin, he met Elisabeth Shepperd Grant, a Philadelphian working as a translator in the American Embassy, and married her two weeks before his return to the United States in 1924.\n\nFoulois gathered the equivalent of a railroad boxcar full of valuable documents, drawings, technical bulletins, magazines, books, blueprints and reports. By having talked with more than 180 individuals, he had a valuable collection of German aviation knowledge. However, he wrote: \"I only hoped that it was being put to good use in America. To my eternal regret, it wasn’t. The lack of an air intelligence collection system, inexperience on the part of the military intelligence officers in regard to aeronautics, and a lack of appreciation for the potential value of the fruits of German genius caused much of the material I sent to end up unopened in a warehouse and later sent to the trash heap.\"\n\nAfter many years, Foulois achieved his desire to command a flying unit, and was assigned command of Mitchel Field, Long Island, New York, in 1925. The same year, Billy Mitchell was convicted in a court-martial, which resulted in his resignation in February 1926.\nIn December 1927, when James E. Fechet was promoted to Air Corps Chief, Foulois began a four-year tour as one of the three Assistant Chiefs of the Air Corps, which carried with it a temporary rank of brigadier general, including a year as Chief of the Materiel Division at Wright Field, Dayton, Ohio, from June 1929 to July 1930. In May 1931 he commanded the Air Corps exercises, leading an armada of 672 airplanes, coast-to-coast defense flights, combat competition and large scale attacks. The leadership of this exercise earned Foulois the Mackey Trophy for the most meritorious military flight of 1931.\n\nOn December 19, 1931, following Fechet's retirement, he was appointed Chief of the Air Corps by President Herbert Hoover, which carried the rank of major general. Foulois had already appeared before Congress on 75 occasions to testify on military matters. During the next four years, he was in constant communication with Congress on the future of the Air Corps, during a time when economic hardships were forcing severe budget cuts. While this initially resulted in a solid base of support from supporters of aviation, it eventually proved a two-edged sword: when he lost their support in 1934–1935, his position as Chief of Air Corps became untenable.\n\nCoast defense had traditionally been a primary function of the Army, with the line of demarcation the range of its coast artillery guns. The range of aircraft ostensibly confused the issue and opened a competition between the Air Service and Naval Aviation for the mission, and thus for further development of its service. A compromise reached between the Chief of Naval Operations and General Douglas MacArthur in January 1931 gave the land-based Air Service the mission, while the Navy was to defend the fleet. Following that, the apparent invincibility of long range Martin B-10 bombers against the slower Boeing P-12 pursuit planes led Foulois and the Air Corps leadership to begin the development of long-range bombers in 1933. Without this foresight, the development of the B-17’s and B-24’s, essential to eventual separation of the Air Force from the Army, would not have taken place.\n\nFoulois served as Chief of the Air Corps during the Air Mail scandal of 1934. Under pressure from President Roosevelt, Foulois committed the service to delivering the mail without consulting Chief of Staff Douglas MacArthur, while knowing that the Air Corps was ill-equipped and untrained to fly in winter conditions. At the time, commercial air carriers derived stable income from carrying the U.S. mail. Allegations of a conspiracy to defraud the government in these contracts resulted in assignment of all air-mail delivery to the Air Corps, beginning on February 19, 1934, and lasting through May 17, 1934. The flown by the Air Corps pilots, with insufficient training, equipment, funding, and experience, resulted in numerous fatal crashes. Foulois became the middleman in a political battle between the commercial aviation owners, Congress, and the military. Foulois later wrote that the \"fiasco\" was just as historically significant as the first flight or the first air combat mission. He argued that its lasting effect helped identify the needs of the peacetime Air Corps and the Baker Board's recommendation for a GHQ Air Force, which was implemented in March 1935.\n\nThe 1934 Rogers Subcommittee investigation into improper contracting and procurement awards charged him with violations of law in awarding contracts, mismanagement of the Army Air Corps Mail Operation, and making misleading statements to Congress. Chairman William N. Rogers called for the resignation of Foulois and threatened to hold up Air Corps appropriations. Although he carried his fight to the public through the media with the backing of Secretary of War George Dern, Foulois decided to retire \"for the good of the service,\" asserting that he did so that the focus could return to the vital task of building the Air Force in the face of a resurgence in German airpower. His retirement date coincided with the end of his four-year term as Chief of Air Corps, and existing law allowed him to retire at his temporary rank of Major General. Foulois officially left active duty December 31, 1935, after 36 years of service. In spite of his remarkable career, he departed with no farewell from the General Staff, no parade, and no aircraft fly-by.\n\nHe accurately warned of the buildup of German air power, and the need to build a strong air force and to take defensive measures to protect the East Coast. Prior to World War II, he ran New Jersey's civil defense program. In 1941, Foulois ran as a Republican for , losing to four-term Democrat incumbent Elmer H. Wene. When World War II broke out he would have returned to active duty if offered a combat position. When the War Department offered him only a staff job, he demurred and opted to devote his energies to New Jersey Civil Defense. He continued to write and speak for 17 years from his home in Ventnor City, New Jersey.\n\nHis wife Elisabeth grew very ill and Foulois had difficulty paying for her care. Generals Carl Spaatz and Ira Eaker interceded with Air Force Chief of Staff, General Thomas D. White, to allow Foulois to live at Andrews Air Force Base. In return he would tour the world as a senior spokesman to promote Air Force issues. Thus, in his eighties he traveled by air, emphasizing national security to the men and women of the U.S. Air Force at home and overseas.\n\nIn 1963, Foulois appeared on the television quiz show \"I've Got a Secret\", where his secret was that he had once been the entire U.S. Air Force.\nGeneral Foulois died on April 25, 1967, following a stroke at age 87, and was buried in his hometown of Washington, Connecticut.\n\nFoulois had worked for 18 months with Carroll V. Glines on a biography of his life, though he died before the publicity tour could take place. The book, titled \"From the Wright Brothers to the Astronauts\", was published in 1968. The biography was republished in 1980 for sale to libraries; only 400 copies were produced. A new edition of the biography, re-titled \"Foulois: One-Man Air Force\", emerged in 2010.\n\nAs one of the longest living of the first military pilots, Foulois saw the steps into space of the Apollo Program – a direct legacy of his many career “first” milestones. He remains one of the most significant figures in the development of U.S. air power.\n\nAsked how to say his name, he told \"The Literary Digest\" \"Rhymes with \"to cloy: foo-loy'.\"\" (Charles Earle Funk, \"What's the Name, Please?\", Funk & Wagnalls, 1936.) The French pronunciation of Foulois family name is \"fool-wah\".\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2063513", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2063513", "title": "Temptation (Nacio Herb Brown and Arthur Freed song)", "text": "Temptation (Nacio Herb Brown and Arthur Freed song)\n\n\"Temptation\" is a popular song published in 1933, with music written by Nacio Herb Brown and lyrics by Arthur Freed. \n\nThe song was introduced by Bing Crosby in the 1933 film \"Going Hollywood\". Crosby recorded the song with Lennie Hayton's orchestra on October 22, 1933 and it reached the No. 3 spot in the charts of the day during a 12-week stay. He recorded it again with John Scott Trotter's Orchestra on March 3, 1945 and also for his 1954 album .\n\nThe song was used in the film \"Singin' in the Rain\" (1952) and later in the 1983 musical based on the film, and is prominently featured in Valerio Zurlini's \"Violent Summer\" (1959).\n\nOther popular versions of the song have been recorded by Artie Shaw and his orchestra on September 7, 1940, Perry Como in 1945, and by Mario Lanza in 1952. Andy Williams, Screamin' Jay Hawkins also recorded the song. Perry Como rerecorded the song in 1974.\n\nIn 1946 Harry James recorded a live version performed at Meadowbrook Gardens, CA (\"One Night Stand With Harry James\", 1975, Joyce LP-1014)\n\nA parody version, entitled \"Tim-tay-shun\", was recorded in a country music style by Red Ingle with a vocal by \"Cinderella G. Stump\" (actually a pseudonym for Jo Stafford) in 1947 and this topped the USA charts.\n\nAfrican-American crooner Billy Eckstine recorded his version December 30, 1947. Reached #7 on the Billboard R&B chart.\nEnoch Light and his Light Brigade band recorded a version on the 1959 album \"Provocative Percussion Volume 2\". This is in-turn sampled on electronic producer Amon Tobin track \"Nightlife\" from his 1998 album \"Permutation\".\n\nThe Everly Brothers' version (b/w \"Stick With Me Baby\", Warner Bros. Records WB5220), released in May 1961, reached #1 in the UK charts. This version also peaked at #27 on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100.\n\nCharlie Parker recorded a version in 1952 on the Verve label.\n\nItalian folk band Banda Ionica released a 2002 cover of the instrumental under the alternative title \"Lorenzo In Sicilia\".\n\nReleased on her posthumous album in 2003, \"Wildwood Flower\", another version of the song, was recorded by June Carter Cash and Johnny Cash. They also performed it live in 2002.\n\nAmerican swing revivalists the Cherry Poppin' Daddies recorded a version for their 2016 album \"The Boop-A-Doo\".\n\nAn interpretation was featured in the first episode of \"The Muppet Show\", with Miss Piggy, four chickens, four frogs, and two male pigs being led by Kermit the Frog in the Muppet Glee Club, Miss Piggy sang a solo in the third verse until the end, her voice being performed by Richard Hunt instead of Frank Oz, her then-regular performer. In a later episode, three octopuses played the song on the drums and kazoo. Animal took offense to their bad playing, and attacked them.\n\nThis song is currently played by \"Ohio's Pride,\" The University of Akron Marching Band.\n\nThe Michigan Marching Band has been playing a version of Temptation arranged by Jerry Billik for over 40 years. It also plays a shortened version whenever an opponent is stopped on third down. It also plays the song, in full, during the post-game performance, followed by \"Hawaiian War Chant\", because according to announcer Carl Grapentine, \"you can't have one without the other.\" The same arrangement is also used by the University of Michigan athletic bands, including the hockey, women's volleyball, and men's and women's basketball bands.\n\nThe song \"Remember,\" performed by Josh Groban and Tanja Tzarovska for the 2004 film \"Troy\", is largely based upon the melody of Temptation.\n\n"}
{"id": "2063516", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2063516", "title": "J.T. Smith", "text": "J.T. Smith\n\nJ.T. Smith may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2063517", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2063517", "title": "Plate fin heat exchanger", "text": "Plate fin heat exchanger\n\nA plate-fin heat exchanger is a type of heat exchanger design that uses plates and finned chambers to transfer heat between fluids. It is often categorized as a compact heat exchanger to emphasise its relatively high heat transfer surface area to volume ratio.\nThe plate-fin heat exchanger is widely used in many industries, including the aerospace industry for its compact size and lightweight properties, as well as in cryogenics where its ability to facilitate heat transfer with small temperature differences is utilized.\n\nAluminum alloy plate fin heat exchangers, often referred to as Brazed Aluminum Heat Exchangers, have been used in the aircraft industry for more than 60 years and adopted into the cryogenic air separation industry around the time of the second world war and shortly afterwards into cryogenic processes in chemical plants such as Natural Gas Processing. They are also used in railway engines and motor cars. Stainless steel plate fins have been used in aircraft for 30 years and are now becoming established in chemical plant.\n\nOriginally conceived by an Italian mechanic, Paolo Fruncillo. A plate-fin heat exchanger is made of layers of corrugated sheets separated by flat metal plates, typically aluminium, to create a series of finned chambers. Separate hot and cold fluid streams flow through alternating layers of the heat exchanger and are enclosed at the edges by side bars. Heat is transferred from one stream through the fin interface to the separator plate and through the next set of fins into the adjacent fluid. The fins also serve to increase the structural integrity of the heat exchanger and allow it to withstand high pressures while providing an extended surface area for heat transfer.\n\nA high degree of flexibility is present in plate-fin heat exchanger design as they can operate with any combination of gas, liquid, and two-phase fluids. Heat transfer between multiple process streams is also accommodated, with a variety of fin heights and types as different entry and exit points available for each stream.\n\nThe main four type of fins are: \"plain\", which refer to simple straight-finned triangular or rectangular designs; \"herringbone\", where the fins are placed sideways to provide a zig-zag path; and \"serrated\" and \"perforated\" which refer to cuts and perforations in the fins to augment flow distribution and improve heat transfer.\nA disadvantage of plate-fin heat exchangers is that they are prone to fouling due to their small flow channels. They also cannot be mechanically cleaned and require other cleaning procedures and proper filtration for operation with potentially-fouling streams.\n\nIn a plate-fin heat exchanger, the fins are easily able to be rearranged. This allows for the two fluids to result in crossflow, counterflow, cross-counterflow or parallel flow. If the fins are designed well, the plate-fin heat exchanger can work in perfect countercurrent arrangement.\n\nThe cost of plate-fin heat exchangers is generally higher than conventional heat exchangers due to a higher level of detail required during manufacture. However, these costs can often be outweighed by the cost saving produced by the added heat transfer.\n\nPlate-fin heat exchangers are generally applied in industries where the fluids have little chances of fouling. The delicate design as well as the thin channels in the plate-fin heat exchanger make cleaning difficult or impossible.\n\nApplications of plate-fin heat exchangers include:\n\n\n\nCoulson, J. and Richardson, J (1999). Chemical Engineering- Fluid Flow. Heat Transfer and Mass Transfer- Volume 1; Reed Educational & Professional Publishing LTD\n"}
{"id": "2063524", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2063524", "title": "StatSoft", "text": "StatSoft\n\nStatSoft is the original developer of Statistica. Dell acquired it in March 2014. Statistica is an advanced analytics software portfolio that provides enterprise and desktop software for statistics, data analysis, data management, data visualization, data mining (also called predictive analytics), and quality control.\n\nStatSoft Inc was established in 1984 as a partnership of a group of university professors and scientists. Its first products had menu-driven libraries of flexible statistical procedures and ran on microcomputer platforms such as Apple II, CP/M, Commodore, and PC DOS 1.0.\n\nWith the release of Statistica 9 in May 2009, both 32-bit and 64-bit native versions became available. Its current product suite, Statistica 12, was released in May 2013. The software runs on Microsoft Windows. Statistica is used worldwide at major corporations, government agencies, and universities.\n\nOn March 24, 2014, StatSoft was acquired by Dell in an effort to bolster Dell's ‘big data’ offering. It has offices in 24 countries including Australia, Brazil, Bulgaria, China, Czech Republic, France, Germany, Hungary, India, Israel, Italy, Japan, Korea, Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Russia, Spain, South Africa, Sweden, Switzerland, Taiwan, and the United Kingdom. StatSoft's CEO at the time of the Dell acquisition was Paul Lewicki.\n\nOn June 20, 2016, Dell sold Dell Software Group (which included StatSoft) to private equity firm Francisco Partners and Elliott Management.\n\nOn May 15, 2017, Quest Software sold Statistica to TIBCO Software.\n\n\nStatSoft's professional services groups provide a range of services to complement the Statistica software. StatSoft provides software integration and customization services, development of custom Web applications based on Statistica Enterprise Server technology, as well as installation of a general-purpose Web Server system. StatSoft also offers deployment of data mining solutions designed to work with specific data warehouses and solve particular ranges of problems. Additionally, statistical consulting services are available. StatSoft offers both introductory and advanced training courses in major cities in the United States and overseas. StatSoft's training classes provide hands-on experience with its line of software products as well as an introduction to real-world example applications.\nStatSoft, through its Technical Services group, provides software validation services as part of the deployment of Statistica applications. These services include requirement gathering and documentation, validation planning, installation qualification, operational qualification, and performance qualification.\n\nStatSoft also freely provides the Electronic Statistics Textbook.\n\nIn October 2012 StatSoft announced that it would make its Statistica Enterprise Software available for free to companies in Greece, Portugal and Spain. This included StatSoft's Big Data Analytics Platform. StatSoft's stated aim was to help boost these country's productivity and competitiveness, and to facilitate their recovery. StatSoft CEO, Paul Lewicki, has written an open letter to the CEOs of US software companies urging them to join this “Free Enterprise Software for Struggling European Economies” initiative.\n\n"}
{"id": "2063531", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2063531", "title": "Oscar Koch", "text": "Oscar Koch\n\nOscar W. Koch (January 10, 1897, Milwaukee, Wisconsin – May 16, 1970, Carbondale, Illinois) was a brigadier general in the U.S. Army and the Third Army intelligence officer (G-2) while the army was commanded by General George S. Patton in World War II.\n\nKoch began his military career in 1915 with Troop A, First Wisconsin Cavalry and thereafter served on the Mexican border with General John J. Pershing. Koch subsequently served in World War I in France, and, in 1920, was commissioned an officer in the regular army cavalry.\n\nKoch was an instructor at the Cavalry School at Fort Riley in the 1930s. It was at that post that he first met George S. Patton. In 1940, he was assigned to the staff of the newly formed 2d Armored Division by Gen Patton. Koch was called by Patton to be his chief of staff during the invasion of French Morocco in November 1942. Subsequently, Koch served as the senior intelligence officer for Patton as he successively commanded the II Corps, I Armored Corps, Seventh Army, and finally Third Army.\n\nOn the 9th day of December 1944, Col. Koch, serving as G-2 for the 3rd Army, famously warned Patton that intelligence indicators pointed to an imminent large-scale German offensive against the U.S. VIII Corps in the Ardennes. This warning compelled Patton to incorporate emergency measures to rescue General Courtney Hodges and his First Army, in addition to drawing up final plans of \"Operation Tink\"—Patton's thrust into \"Das Dritten Reich\", rapidly executed when the Germans attacked on December 16, 1944.\n\nDuring the Korean War, Koch commanded the 25th Infantry Division. Koch retired from military service in 1954. In 1970, shortly before his death, he completed a book coauthored with Robert G. Hays, \"G2: Intelligence for Patton\".\n\nGeneral Koch was made a member of the Military Intelligence Hall of Fame.\n\n"}
{"id": "2063535", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2063535", "title": "Homogeneous charge compression ignition", "text": "Homogeneous charge compression ignition\n\nHomogeneous Charge Compression Ignition (HCCI) is a form of internal combustion in which well-mixed fuel and oxidizer (typically air) are compressed to the point of auto-ignition. As in other forms of combustion, this exothermic reaction releases energy that can be transformed in an engine into work and heat.\n\nHCCI combines characteristics of conventional gasoline engine and diesel engines. Gasoline engines combine \"homogeneous charge\" (HC) with \"spark ignition\" (SI), abbreviated as HCSI. Modern direct injection diesel engines combine \"stratified charge\" (SC) with \"compression ignition\" (CI), abbreviated as SCCI.\n\nAs in HCSI, HCCI injects fuel during the intake stroke. However, rather than using an electric discharge (spark) to ignite a portion of the mixture, HCCI raises density and temperature by compression until the entire mixture reacts spontaneously.\n\nStratified charge compression ignition also relies on temperature and density increase resulting from compression. However, it injects fuel later, during the compression stroke. Combustion occurs at the boundary of the fuel and air, producing higher emissions, but allowing a leaner and higher temperature compression burn, producing greater efficiency.\n\nControlling HCCI requires microprocessor control and physical understanding of the ignition process. HCCI designs achieve gasoline engine-like emissions with diesel engine-like efficiency.\n\nHCCI engines achieve extremely low levels of oxides of nitrogen emissions () without a catalytic converter. Hydrocarbons (unburnt fuels and oils) and carbon monoxide emissions still require treatment to meet automobile emissions control regulations.\n\nRecent research has shown that the hybrid fuels combining different reactivities (such as gasoline and diesel) can help in controlling HCCI ignition and burn rates. RCCI, or reactivity controlled compression ignition, has been demonstrated to provide highly efficient, low emissions operation over wide load and speed ranges..\n\nHCCI engines have a long history, even though HCCI has not been as widely implemented as spark ignition or diesel injection. It is essentially an Otto combustion cycle. HCCI was popular before electronic spark ignition was used. One example is the hot-bulb engine which used a hot vaporization chamber to help mix fuel with air. The extra heat combined with compression induced the conditions for combustion. Another example is the \"diesel\" model aircraft engine.\n\nA mixture of fuel and air ignites when the concentration and temperature of reactants is sufficiently high. The concentration and/or temperature can be increased in several different ways:\n\n\nOnce ignited, combustion occurs very quickly. When auto-ignition occurs too early or with too much chemical energy, combustion is too fast and high in-cylinder pressures can destroy an engine. For this reason, HCCI is typically operated at lean overall fuel mixtures.\n\n\n\nHCCI is more difficult to control than other combustion engines, such as SI and diesel. In a typical gasoline engine, a spark is used to ignite the pre-mixed fuel and air. In Diesel engines, combustion begins when the fuel is injected into pre-compressed air. In both cases, combustion timing is explicitly controlled. In an HCCI engine, however, the homogeneous mixture of fuel and air is compressed and combustion begins whenever sufficient pressure and temperature are reached. This means that no well-defined combustion initiator provides direct control. Engines must be designed so that ignition conditions occur at the desired timing. To achieve dynamic operation, the control system must manage the conditions that induce combustion. Options include the compression ratio, inducted gas temperature, inducted gas pressure, fuel-air ratio, or quantity of retained or re-inducted exhaust. Several control approaches are discussed below.\n\nTwo compression ratios are significant. The \"geometric compression ratio\" can be changed with a movable plunger at the top of the cylinder head. This system is used in diesel model aircraft engines. The \"effective compression ratio\" can be reduced from the geometric ratio by closing the intake valve either very late or very early with variable valve actuation (variable valve timing that enables the Miller cycle). Both approaches require energy to achieve fast response. Additionally, implementation is expensive, but is effective. The effect of compression ratio on HCCI combustion has also been studied extensively.\n\nHCCI's autoignition event is highly sensitive to temperature. The simplest temperature control method uses resistance heaters to vary the inlet temperature, but this approach is too slow to change on a cycle-to-cycle frequency. Another technique is \"fast thermal management\" (FTM). It is accomplished by varying the intake charge temperature by mixing hot and cold air streams. It is fast enough to allow cycle-to-cycle control. It is also expensive to implement and has limited bandwidth associated with actuator energy.\n\nExhaust gas is very hot if retained or re-inducted from the previous combustion cycle or cool if recirculated through the intake as in conventional EGR systems. The exhaust has dual effects on HCCI combustion. It dilutes the fresh charge, delaying ignition and reducing the chemical energy and engine output. Hot combustion products conversely increase gas temperature in the cylinder and advance ignition. Control of combustion timing HCCI engines using EGR has been shown experimentally.\n\n\"Variable valve actuation\" (VVA) extends the HCCI operating region by giving finer control over the temperature-pressure-time envelope within the combustion chamber. VVA can achieve this via either:\n\n\nWhile electro-hydraulic and camless VVA systems offer control over the valve event, the componentry for such systems is currently complicated and expensive. Mechanical variable lift and duration systems, however, although more complex than a standard valvetrain, are cheaper and less complicated. It is relatively simple to configure such systems to achieve the necessary control over the valve lift curve.\n\nAnother means to extend the operating range is to control the onset of ignition and the heat release rate by manipulating the fuel itself. This is usually carried out by blending multiple fuels \"on the fly\" for the same engine. Examples include blending of commercial gasoline and diesel fuels, adopting natural gas or ethanol \". This can be achieved in a number of ways:\n\n\nCompression Ignition Direct Injection (CIDI) combustion is a well-established means of controlling ignition timing and heat release rate and is adopted in diesel engine combustion. Partially Pre-mixed Charge Compression Ignition (PPCI) also known as Premixed Charge Compression Ignition (PCCI) is a compromise offering the control of CIDI combustion with the reduced exhaust gas emissions of HCCI, specifically lower soot. The heat release rate is controlled by preparing the combustible mixture in such a way that combustion occurs over a longer time duration making it less prone to knocking. This is done by timing the injection event such that a range of air/fuel ratios spread across the combustion cylinder when ignition begins. Ignition occurs in different regions of the combustion chamber at different times - slowing the heat release rate. This mixture is designed to minimize the number of fuel-rich pockets, reducing soot formation. The adoption of high EGR and diesel fuels with a greater resistance to ignition (more \"gasoline like\") enable longer mixing times before ignition and thus fewer rich pockets that produce soot and \n\nIn a typical ICE, combustion occurs via a flame. Hence at any point in time, only a fraction of the total fuel is burning. This results in low peak pressures and low energy release rates. In HCCI however, the entire fuel/air mixture ignites and burns over a much smaller time interval, resulting in high peak pressures and high energy release rates. To withstand the higher pressures, the engine has to be structurally stronger. Several strategies have been proposed to lower the rate of combustion and peak pressure. Mixing fuels, with different autoignition properties, can lower the combustion speed.\nHowever, this requires significant infrastructure to implement. Another approach uses dilution (i.e. with exhaust gases) to reduce the pressure and combustion rates (and output).\n\nIn the divided combustion chamber approach, there are two cooperating combustion chambers: a small auxiliary and a big main.<br>\nA high compression ratio is used in the auxiliary combustion chamber. <br>\nA moderate compression ratio is used in the main combustion chamber wherein a homogeneous air-fuel mixture is compressed / heated near, yet below, the auto-ignition threshold.<br>\nThe high compression ratio in the auxiliary combustion chamber causes the auto-ignition of the homogeneous lean air-fuel mixture therein (no spark plug required); the burnt gas bursts - through some \"transfer ports\", just before the TDC - into the main combustion chamber triggering its auto-ignition.<br>\nThe engine needs not be structurally stronger.\n\nIn ICEs, power can be increased by introducing more fuel into the combustion chamber. These engines can withstand a boost in power because the heat release rate in these engines is slow. However, in HCCI engines increasing the fuel/air ratio results in higher peak pressures and heat release rates. In addition, many viable HCCI control strategies require thermal preheating of the fuel, which reduces the density and hence the mass of the air/fuel charge in the combustion chamber, reducing power. These factors make increasing the power in HCCI engines challenging.\n\nOne technique is to use fuels with different autoignition properties. This lowers the heat release rate and peak pressures and makes it possible to increase the equivalence ratio. Another way is to thermally stratify the charge so that different points in the compressed charge have different temperatures and burn at different times, lowering the heat release rate and making it possible to increase power.\nA third way is to run the engine in HCCI mode only at part load conditions and run it as a diesel or SI engine at higher load conditions.\n\nBecause HCCI operates on lean mixtures, the peak temperature is much lower than that encountered in SI and diesel engines. This low peak temperature reduces the formation of , but it also leads to incomplete burning of fuel, especially near combustion chamber walls. This produces relatively high carbon monoxide and hydrocarbon emissions. An oxidizing catalyst can remove the regulated species, because the exhaust is still oxygen-rich.\n\nEngine knock or pinging occurs when some of the unburnt gases ahead of the flame in an SI engine spontaneously ignite. This gas is compressed as the flame propagates and the pressure in the combustion chamber rises. The high pressure and corresponding high temperature of unburnt reactants can cause them to spontaneously ignite. This causes a shock wave to traverse from the end gas region and an expansion wave to traverse into the end gas region. The two waves reflect off the boundaries of the combustion chamber and interact to produce high amplitude standing waves, thus forming a primitive thermoacoustic device where the resonance is amplified by the increased heat release during the wave travel similar to a Rijke tube.\n\nA similar ignition process occurs in HCCI. However, rather than part of the reactant mixture igniting by compression ahead of a flame front, ignition in HCCI engines occurs due to piston compression more or less simultaneously in the bulk of the compressed charge. Little or no pressure differences occur between the different regions of the gas, eliminating any shock wave and knocking, but the rapid pressure rise is still present and desirable from the point of seeking maximum efficiency from near-ideal isochoric heat addition.\n\nComputational models for simulating combustion and heat release rates of HCCI engines require detailed chemistry models. This is largely because ignition is more sensitive to chemical kinetics than to turbulence/spray or spark processes as are typical in SI and diesel engines. Computational models have demonstrated the importance of accounting for the fact that the in-cylinder mixture is actually in-homogeneous, particularly in terms of temperature. This in-homogeneity is driven by turbulent mixing and heat transfer from the combustion chamber walls. The amount of temperature stratification dictates the rate of heat release and thus tendency to knock. This limits the usefulness of considering the in-cylinder mixture as a single zone, resulting in the integration of 3D computational fluid dynamics codes such as Los Alamos National Laboratory's KIVA CFD code and faster solving probability density function modelling codes.\n\nAs of 2017, no HCCI engines were produced at commercial scale. However, several car manufacturers had functioning HCCI prototypes.\n\n\nTo date, few prototype engines run in HCCI mode, but HCCI research has resulted in advancements in fuel and engine development. Examples include:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2063551", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2063551", "title": "The Mouse and His Child (film)", "text": "The Mouse and His Child (film)\n\nThe Mouse and His Child is a 1977 Japanese-American animated film based on the 1967 novel of the same name by Russell Hoban.\n\nThe mouse and his child are two parts of a single small wind-up toy, which must be wound by a key in the father's back. After being unpacked, they discover themselves in a toy shop where they befriend a toy elephant and toy seal. The child mouse proposes staying at the shop to form a family, which the other toys ridicule.\n\nThey accidentally fall out of a window and land in the trash. Once transported to the dump, they become enslaved by Manny the rat, who runs a casino and uses broken wind-up toys as his slave labor force. With the aid of a psychic frog, the mice escape and meet other animal characters on a quest of becoming free and independent self-winding toys.\n\nThey rediscover the elephant and seal, who are somewhat broken down. Together they manage to form a family and destroy the rat empire.\n\nLeonard Maltin, for his movie guide, rated the movie BOMB (his lowest rating) out of four, saying \"Boring animated movie. Talk, talk, talk and no action\".\n\nThe film was first released on RCA/Columbia Pictures Home Video on VHS in 1985 and re-released in 1991 in the United States. A DVD version has yet to be released in the United States, but it was released on DVD in Japan.\n\n"}
{"id": "2063552", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2063552", "title": "Frederick G. Williams", "text": "Frederick G. Williams\n\nFrederick Granger Williams (October 28, 1787 – October 10, 1842) was an early leader of the Latter Day Saint movement, serving in the First Presidency of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints from 1833 to 1837.\n\nWilliams was born at Suffield, Connecticut, to William Wheeler Williams and Ruth Granger. He married Rebecca Swain in December 1815. By 1828 he was living in Chardon, Ohio, and he moved to Kirtland in 1830. While in Ohio, he associated himself with Sidney Rigdon and the Disciples of Christ. When Oliver Cowdery and other early Latter Day Saints were traveling through Kirtland, they taught and baptized many in Rigdon’s congregation, including Williams.\n\nOn July 20, 1832, Williams was appointed scribe to Joseph Smith and joined the church’s leading council the next year. He was a member of the committee appointed to publish the Doctrine and Covenants, a portion of the church’s canon, as well as the church’s first hymnal, compiled by Smith's wife, Emma, under the auspices of F.G. Williams & Co. in 1835.\n\nIn 1837, Williams was elected a justice of the peace in Kirtland, appointed an officer in the Kirtland Safety Society, released from the First Presidency, and moved to Far West, Caldwell, County, Missouri. Although there is no record of an excommunication, Williams was rebaptized in August 1838. He was excommunicated \"in absentia\" in March 1839 while Joseph Smith was in Liberty Jail, but was restored to fellowship at a church conference presided over by Smith in April 1840. Williams died at Quincy, Illinois.\n\nAs Smith's scribe and counselor, Williams became a close friend and confidant of the prophet. Joseph and Emma Smith named one of their sons Frederick Granger Williams Smith (June 20, 1836 – April 13, 1862).\n\nThe lineage of Williams continues in The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Williams's great-great-grandson, and namesake, Frederick Granger Williams, served as president of the Recife Brazil Temple (2009–12) and then as a professor at Brigham Young University in Provo, Utah.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2063558", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2063558", "title": "Symplectic integrator", "text": "Symplectic integrator\n\nIn mathematics, a symplectic integrator (SI) is a numerical integration scheme for Hamiltonian systems. Symplectic integrators form the subclass of geometric integrators which, by definition, are canonical transformations. They are widely used in nonlinear dynamics, molecular dynamics, discrete element methods, accelerator physics, plasma physics, quantum physics, and celestial mechanics.\n\nSymplectic integrators are designed for the numerical solution of Hamilton's equations, which read\nwhere formula_2 denotes the position coordinates, formula_3 the momentum coordinates, and formula_4 is the Hamiltonian. \nThe set of position and momentum coordinates formula_5 are called canonical coordinates.\n\nThe time evolution of Hamilton's equations is a symplectomorphism, meaning that it conserves the symplectic two-form formula_6. A numerical scheme is a symplectic integrator if it also conserves this two-form.\n\nSymplectic integrators possess, as a conserved quantity, a Hamiltonian which is slightly perturbed from the original one. By virtue of these advantages, the SI scheme has been widely applied to the calculations of long-term evolution of chaotic Hamiltonian systems ranging from the Kepler problem to the classical and semi-classical simulations in molecular dynamics.\n\nMost of the usual numerical methods, like the primitive Euler scheme and the classical Runge–Kutta scheme, are not symplectic integrators.\n\nA widely used class of symplectic integrators is formed by the splitting methods.\n\nAssume that the Hamiltonian is separable, meaning that it can be written in the form\n\nThis happens frequently in Hamiltonian mechanics, with \"T\" being the kinetic energy and \"V\" the potential energy.\n\nFor the notational simplicity, let us introduce the symbol formula_8 to denote the canonical coordinates \nincluding both the position and momentum coordinates. Then, the set of the Hamilton's equations given in the introduction can be expressed in a single expression as\n\nwhere formula_10 is a Poisson bracket. Furthermore, by introducing an operator formula_11, which returns a Poisson bracket of the operand with the Hamiltonian, the expression of the Hamilton's equation can be further simplified to\n\nThe formal solution of this set of equations is given as a matrix exponential:\n\nNote the positivity of formula_14 in the matrix exponential.\n\nWhen the Hamiltonian has the form of eq. (1), the solution (3) is equivalent to\n\nThe SI scheme approximates the time-evolution operator formula_16 in the formal solution (4) by a product of operators as\n\nwhere formula_18 and formula_19 are real numbers, formula_20 is an integer, which is called the order of the integrator, and where formula_21. Note that each of the operators formula_22 and formula_23 provides a symplectic map, so their product appearing in the right-hand side of (5) also constitutes a symplectic map.\n\nSince formula_24 for all formula_25, we can conclude that\n\nBy using a Taylor series, formula_27 can be expressed as\n\nwhere formula_29 is an arbitrary real number. Combining (6) and (7), and by using the same reasoning for formula_30 as we have used for formula_31, we get\n\nIn concrete terms, formula_22 gives the mapping\n\nand formula_23 gives\n\nNote that both of these maps are practically computable.\n\nThe simplified form of the equations (in executed order) are:\n\nAfter converting into Lagrangian coordinates:\n\nWhere formula_41 is the force vector at formula_42, formula_43 is the acceleration vector at formula_42, and formula_45 is the scalar quantity of mass.\n\nSeveral symplectic integrators are given below. An illustrative way to use them is to consider \na particle with position formula_2 and velocity formula_3.\n\nTo apply a timestep with values formula_48 to the particle, carry out the following steps:\n\nIteratively:\n\nThe symplectic Euler method is the first-order integrator with formula_54 and coefficients\n\nNote that the algorithm above does not work if time-reversibility is needed.\nThe algorithm has to be implemented in two parts, one for positive time steps, one for negative time steps.\n\nThe Verlet method is the second-order integrator with formula_56 and coefficients\n\nSince formula_58, the algorithm above is symmetric in time. There are 3 steps to the algorithm, and step 1 and 3 are exactly the same, so the positive time version can be used for negative time.\n\nA third-order symplectic integrator (with formula_59) was discovered by Ronald Ruth in 1983.\nOne of the many solutions is given by\n\nA fourth-order integrator (with formula_61) was also discovered by Ruth in 1983 and distributed privately to the particle-accelerator community at that time. This was described in a lively review article by Forest.\nThis fourth-order integrator was published in 1990 by Forest and Ruth and also \nindependently discovered by two other groups around that same time.\nTo determine these coefficients, the Baker–Campbell–Hausdorff formula can be used. Yoshida, in particular, gives an elegant derivation of coefficients for higher-order integrators. Later on, Blanes and Moan further developed partitioned Runge–Kutta methods for the integration of systems with separable Hamiltonians with very small error constants.\n\nGeneral nonseparable Hamiltonians can also be explicitly and symplectically integrated.\n\nTo do so, Tao introduced a restraint that binds two copies of phase space together to enable an explicit splitting of such systems.\nThe idea is, instead of formula_63, one simulates formula_64, whose solution agrees with that of formula_63 in the sense that formula_66.\n\nThe new Hamiltonian is advantageous for explicit symplectic integration, because it can be split into the sum of three sub-Hamiltonians, formula_67, formula_68, and formula_69. Exact solutions of all three sub-Hamiltonians can be explicitly obtained: both formula_70 solutions correspond to shifts of mismatched position and momentum, and formula_71 corresponds to a linear transformation. To symplectically simulate the system, one simply composes these solution maps.\n\nIn recent decades symplectic integrator in plasma physics has become an active research topic, because straightforward applications of the standard symplectic methods do not suit the need of large-scale plasma simulations enabled by the peta- to exa-scale computing hardware. Special symplectic algorithms need to be customarily designed, tapping into the special structures of physics problem under investigation. One such example is the charged particle dynamics in an electromagnetic field. With the canonical symplectic structure, the Hamiltonian of the dynamics is formula_72 whose formula_73-dependence and formula_74-dependence are not separable, and standard explicit symplectic methods do not apply. For large-scale simulations on massively parallel clusters, however, explicit methods are preferred. \nTo overcome this difficulty, we can explore the specific way that the formula_73-dependence and formula_74-dependence are entangled in this Hamiltonian, and try to design a symplectic algorithm just for this or this type of problem. First, we note that the formula_73-dependence is quadratic, therefore the first order symplectic Euler method implicit in formula_73 is actually explicit. This is what is used in the canonical symplectic particle-in-cell (PIC) algorithm. To build high order explicit methods, we further note that the formula_73-dependence and formula_74-dependence in this formula_81 are product-separable, and 2nd and 3rd order explicit symplectic algorithms can be constructed using generating functions.\n\nA more elegant and versatile alternative is to look at the following non-canonical symplectic structure of the problem, formula_82 Here formula_83 is a non-constant non-canonical symplectic form. General symplectic integrator for non-constant non-canonical symplectic structure, explicit or implicit, is not known to exist. However, for this specific problem, a family of high-order explicit non-canonical symplectic integrators can be constructed using the He splitting method. Splitting formula_84 into 4 parts, formula_85 we find serendipitously that for each subsystem, e.g., formula_86 and formula_87 the solution map can be written down explicitly and calculated exactly. Then explicit high-order non-canonical symplectic algorithms can be constructed using different compositions. Let formula_88 and formula_89 denote the exact solution maps for the 4 subsystems. A 1st-order symplectic scheme is formula_90 A symmetric 2nd-order symplectic scheme is, formula_91 which is a customarily modified Strang splitting. A formula_92-th order scheme can be constructed from a formula_93-th order scheme using the method of triple jump, formula_94 The He splitting method is one of key techniques used in the structure-preserving geometric particle-in-cell (PIC) algorithms \n\n\n"}
{"id": "2063561", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2063561", "title": "Emilio Lunghi", "text": "Emilio Lunghi\n\nEmilio Lunghi (16 March 1887, in Genoa – 27 September 1925) was an Italian athlete. He won the silver medal in the men's 800 metres race at the 1908 Summer Olympics in London, making him the first Italian to win an Olympic medal.\n\nHis time in the race was 1:54.2, which beat the previous Olympic record by 1.8 seconds but was still 1.4 seconds behind the time of Mel Sheppard, who took gold and set a new record at 1:52.8. Lunghi had won his semifinal heat with a time of 1:57.2 to advance to the final.\n\nLunghi also competed in the 1500 metres. His first-round heat also included Norman Hallows; both of the two runners broke the Olympic record in that heat, but Hallows came out on top by running the race in 4:03.4 as opposed to Lunghi's 4:03.8.\n\nAfter the 1908 Olympics, Lunghi spent a year New York City, and competed as a member of the Irish American Athletic Club while in the U.S., establishing three world's records in the 700 yard, 880 yard and two-thirds of a mile distances.\n\nEmilio Lunghi won the individual national championship nine times in six different events.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2063562", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2063562", "title": "Tursunbai Bakir Uulu", "text": "Tursunbai Bakir Uulu\n\nTursunbai Bakir Uulu (born March 17, 1958 in Kara-Suu, Osh Oblast) is a Kyrgyz politician, former ombudsman and presidential candidate. He is leader of the political party Erkin Kyrgyzstan (ErK). A teacher by training, a historian, and a doctor of philosophy he is married with four children.\n\nHe graduated at the Kyrgyz National University's history faculty (1982). He also studied in Ukraine. In 1989–95, he was a member of the Association of the Young Historians of Kyrgyzstan. He worked at the Osh State University in the city of Osh in Southern Kyrgyzstan as a teacher (1990–1992).\n\nHe was first elected in 1995 as a member of the legislative assembly, after he helped set up the Erkin Kyrgyzstan Progressive Democratic Party political party. In 2000 he was given a fresh mandate, and two years later was elected Kyrgyzstan's first Ombudsman. He served in the position until February 2008.\n\nRegularly vocal in his opposition to Askar Akayev, the Kyrgyz President ousted on 24 March 2005 during the Tulip Revolution, Bakir Uulu called for the abolishment of the death penalty, the release of Felix Kulov from prison, an end to the ban on the Islamic movement Hizb ut Tahrir, and called the 2005 legislative election the least free and fair the nation had ever seen.\n\nBakir Uulu ran in July 2005 presidential elections and lost to former president Kurmanbek Bakiev.\n\nSince 2009 he is the Kyrgyz Ambassador to Malaysia.\n\nHe was elected to the Kyrgyz Parliament in October 2010 as a member of the Ar-Namys party, and was sworn in as a member of parliament on November 10, 2010.\n"}
{"id": "2063568", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2063568", "title": "Emergency Planning and Community Right-to-Know Act", "text": "Emergency Planning and Community Right-to-Know Act\n\nThe Emergency Planning and Community Right-to-Know Act of 1986 is a United States federal law passed by the 99th United States Congress located at Title 42, Chapter 116 of the U.S. Code, concerned with emergency response preparedness.\n\nOn October 17, 1986, President Ronald Reagan signed into law the Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act of 1986 (SARA). This act amended the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 (CERCLA), commonly known as Superfund.\n\nA free-standing law, the Emergency Planning and Community Right-to-Know Act of 1986 (EPCRA) was commonly known as SARA Title III. Its purpose is to encourage and support emergency planning efforts at the state and local levels and to provide the public and local governments with information concerning potential chemical hazards present in their communities.\n\nDuring the early morning hours of December 3, 1984, a Union Carbide plant in a village just South of Bhopal, India released approximately forty tons of Methyl Isocyanate (MIC) into the air. Used in the manufacture of pesticides, MIC is a lethal chemical. The gas quickly and silently diffused over the ground and, in the end, killed, by some estimates, upwards to 5,000 people and injured 50,000 more. The only other place in the world that Union Carbide manufactured MIC is at its Institute plant in the Kanawha Valley of West Virginia. \n\nA week after the Bhopal accident, on December 11, 1984, Hank Karawan, then plant manager of the Union Carbide's Institute facility, held a press conference at which he expressed his confidence in the safety of the Institute plant's operations:\nAll of us here at the Institute plant have been deeply saddened by the tragic event in India and we extend our sympathy to all the people in the city of Bhopal. I am pleased to have the opportunity to make a point here this morning. Employees of the Institute plant have been manufacturing MIC in an effective and safe manner for seventeen years. We are extremely proud of that safety record. We are confident in the ability of our trained, dedicated, skilled, and experienced people. We are confident in the equipment that we operate, the safety precautions that we utilize, the monitoring systems that we have, and our plant emergency preparedness.\n\nDespite Mr. Karawan's vote of confidence for the safety of the MIC operations at his plant, Union Carbide elected to shut down production of the deadly chemical until it could make $500 million worth of safety improvements. On May 4, 1985, Union Carbide resumed production of MIC. On August 11, 1985, on the heels of the completion of the safety improvement program just a few months before, 500 gallons of aldicarb oxime and highly toxic MIC leaked from the Institute plant. Although no one was killed, 134 people living around the plant were treated at local hospitals.\n\nBoth the Bhopal and the Institute incidents underscored the reality of modern-day chemical production—no matter what safety precautions are taken, no matter how well trained a plant's employees may be, and no matter how prepared a plant may be to handle an emergency situation, accidents may still occur. Indeed, around the time of the Bhopal disaster, 6,928 chemical accidents occurred in the United States within a five-year period. In response to this growing threat, the United States Congress passed the Emergency Planning and Community Right-to-Know Act (EPCRA) in 1986.\n\nIn November 1986, the United States Congress passed the Emergency Planning and Community Right-to-Know Act (\"EPCRA\" or \"the Act\") to help America's communities \"deal safely and effectively with the many hazardous substances that are used throughout our society.\" The purpose of the Act is two-fold: (1) to encourage and support emergency planning for responding to chemical accidents; and (2) to provide local governments and the public with information about possible chemical hazards in their communities. To facilitate cooperation between industry, interested citizens, environmental and other public-interest organizations, and government at all levels, the Act establishes an ongoing \"forum\" at the local level called the Local Emergency Planning Committee (LEPC). LEPCs are governed by the State Emergency Response Commission (SERC) in each state.\n\nUnder the Emergency Planning and Community Right-to-Know Act, SERCs and LEPCs are charged with four primary responsibilities:\n\nEPCRA does not place limits on which chemicals can be stored, used, released, disposed, or transferred at a facility. It only requires a facility to document, notify, and report information. Each section of the law, however, applies different requirements, has different deadlines and covers a different group of chemicals.\n\nThese sections are to ensure that state and local communities are prepared to respond to potential chemical accidents. As a first step, each state had to establish a State Emergency Response Commission (SERC). In turn, the SERC designated local emergency planning districts. For each district, the SERC appoints, supervises and coordinates the activities of a Local Emergency Planning Committee (LEPC). The LEPC must, in turn, develop an emergency response plan for its district and review it annually. The membership of the LEPC includes representatives of public and private organizations as well as a representative from every facility subject to EPCRA emergency planning requirements. \n\nThe plan developed by the LEPC must:\n\n\nDetermining if a facility is subject to the EPCRA emergency planning requirements is straightforward. The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has published a list of \"extremely hazardous substances (EHS).\" For each EHS, the list includes the name, the Chemical Abstract Service number of the substance, and a number called a threshold planning quantity (TPQ). The TPQ, expressed in pounds, is the critical number. If a facility has within its boundaries an amount of an extremely hazardous substance equal to or in excess of its threshold planning quantity, the facility is subject to the EPCRA emergency planning requirements and must notify both the SERC and the LEPC of this fact. The facility must also appoint an emergency response coordinator who will work with the LEPC on developing and implementing the local emergency plan at the facility.\n\nA facility may be subject to these reporting requirements even if it is not subject to the provisions of Sections 301–303. This section applies to any facility which stores, produces or uses a \"hazardous chemical\" (any chemical which is a physical hazard or a health hazard) and releases a reportable quantity (RQ) of a substance contained in either of the following two tables published by the EPA in the Code of Federal Regulations:\n\nThe RQ is the critical number that determines if a release must be reported. This is a number expressed in pounds that is assigned to each chemical in the above-mentioned tables. If the amount of a chemical released to the environment exceeds the reportable quantity, the facility must immediately report the release to the appropriate LEPC and SERC and provide a written follow-up as soon as practicable. Immediate notification must include the following:\n\n\nIn addition to immediate notification, facilities are required to provide a follow-up report, in writing, \"update(ing) the original notification, provid(ing) additional information on response actions taken, known or anticipated health risks, and, if appropriate, advice regarding any medical care needed by exposure victims.\" Failure to notify the proper authorities may result in civil penalties of up to $25,000 per day for each day of non-compliance and criminal penalties of up to $25,000 in fines and prison sentences of up to two years.\n\nOf course there are exceptions. A release which results in exposure to persons solely within the facility boundary or is a federally permitted release does not have to be reported. Also, continuous pesticide and radionuclide releases meeting specified conditions are exempt.\n\nThe purpose of these requirements is to increase community awareness of chemical hazards and to facilitate emergency planning. This section applies to any facility that is required by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) under its Hazard Communication Standard to prepare or have available a Safety Data Sheet (SDS) for a hazardous chemical (See II above for definition) or that has on-site, for any one day in a calendar year, an amount of a hazardous chemical equal to or greater than the following threshold limits established by the EPA:\n\nIf a facility is subject to reporting under these sections, it must submit information to the SERC, the LEPC and the local fire department with jurisdiction over the facility under two categories: SDS reporting and inventory reporting.\n\nSDS reporting requirements specifically provide information to the local community about mixtures and chemicals present at a facility and their associated hazards. For all substances whose on-site quantities exceed the above threshold limits, the facility must submit the following:\n\n\nInventory reporting is designed to provide information on the amounts, location and storage conditions of hazardous chemicals and mixtures containing hazardous chemicals present at facilities. The inventory report has two forms. The Tier One form, the simpler of the two, contains aggregate information for applicable hazard categories and must be submitted yearly by March 1. The Tier One form is no longer accepted by any state. The Tier Two form contains more detailed information, including the specific names of each chemical. This form is submitted upon request of any of the agencies authorized to receive the Tier One form. It can also be submitted yearly in lieu of the Tier One Form.\n\nUnder this section, The EPA is required to establish the Toxics Release Inventory (TRI), an inventory of routine toxic chemical emissions from certain facilities. This inventory is intended to inform the public about releases of toxic chemicals. The data gathered is also intended to assist in research and development of regulations, guidelines, and standards. The original data requirements for the TRI, specified in SARA Title III, have been greatly expanded by the Pollution Prevention Act of 1990. The TRI must now also include information on source reduction, recycling and treatment.\n\nTo obtain this data, EPCRA requires each affected facility to submit a Toxic Chemical Release Inventory Form (Form R) to the EPA and designated state officials each year on July 1. A facility must file a Form R if it:\n\n\nOn October 29, 1999, EPA published a final rule (64 FR 58666) adding certain chemicals and chemical categories to the EPCRA section 313 list of toxic chemicals and lowering the reporting threshold for persistent bioaccumulative toxic (PBT) chemicals. On January 17, 2001 EPA published a final rule (66 FR 4500) that classified lead and lead compounds as PBT chemicals and lowered their reporting thresholds.\n\nIn December 2006, the EPA finalized a new TRI Rule which expands eligibility for use of the Form A Certification Statement in lieu of the more detailed Form R. Details about this final rule can be found on the EPA website under TRI Reporting.\n\nSince April 30, 1993, the United States Air Force, in accordance with AFR 355-1, \"Disaster Preparedness, Planning and Operations,\" has voluntarily complied with Sections 303 and 304 of EPCRA in spite of the fact that federal facilities were initially exempt from its requirements. On August 3, 1993, President Clinton signed Executive Order 12856, \"Federal Compliance With Right-to-Know Laws and Pollution Prevention Requirements.\" This Executive Order requires federal agencies, including the Department of Defense, to fully comply with all provisions of EPCRA and the Pollution Prevention Act with one notable exception: the reporting requirements under Section 313. Currently, a non-federal facility must file a Form R only if it is in a specified Standard Industrial Classification (SIC) Code. This exclusion does not apply to federal agencies. Federal agencies will comply with the provisions of Section 313 regardless of the SIC code that applies to their facilities.\n\nThe EPA's guide provides a useful description of the four groups of chemicals subject to reporting under the Emergency Planning and Community Right-to-Know Act:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2063573", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2063573", "title": "Thomas Knyvet, 1st Baron Knyvet", "text": "Thomas Knyvet, 1st Baron Knyvet\n\nThomas Knyvet, 1st Baron Knyvet (; or Knevytt, Knyvett, Knevett, Knevitt; 1545 – 27 July 1622) was an English courtier and Member of Parliament who played a part in foiling the Gunpowder Plot.\n\nThomas Knyvet was the second son of Sir Henry Knyvet of Charlton, Wiltshire, and Anne Pickering, daughter of Sir Christopher Pickering of Killington, Westmorland. His niece, Catherine Knyvet, was married to Thomas Howard, 1st Earl of Suffolk.\n\nOn 21 July 1597 Knyvet married Elizabeth Hayward, the daughter of Sir Rowland Hayward and widow of Richard Warren of Claybury, Essex. According to an unofficial geneology website, they had 8 children: Dorothy Plumley; Thomas Knyvett, de jure 5th Baron Berners; Nathaniel Knyvett; Edmund Knyvett; John Knyvett; Ralph Knyvett; Muriel Knyvett; and Elizabeth Pettus.\n\nKnyvet attended Jesus College, Cambridge.\nHe was a Gentleman of the Privy Chamber to Queen Elizabeth I, and in 1592 was made Master at Arms. He was elected Member of Parliament for Thetford in 1601. He served as Warden of the Royal Mint from 1599 to 1621. He was granted the manor of Stanwell in 1603, and was knighted in 1604.\n\nKnyvet was the most active intervener in foiling the Gunpowder Plot. On the evening of 26 October 1605, the Catholic Lord Monteagle received an anonymous letter warning him to stay away from Parliament during the opening, and to \"retyre youre self into yowre contee whence yow maye expect the event in safti for ... they shall receyve a terrible blowe this parleament\". Monteagle's letter was shown to King James. The King ordered Knyvet to conduct a search of the cellars underneath Parliament, which he carried out with Edmund Doubleday in the early hours of 5 November. Guy Fawkes was arrested by Knyvet whilst leaving the cellar shortly after midnight. Inside, the barrels of gunpowder were discovered hidden under piles of firewood and coal.\n\nAfter foiling the plot Knyvet was given charge of the education of the short-lived Princess Mary. By royal grant of a peerage he entered the House of Lords as Baron Knyvet of Escrick, Yorkshire in 1607. He was appointed a Privy Councillor, Member of the Council to Queen Anne, and Warden of the Mint. In 1613, the manor of Staines was granted him outright.\n\nHe maintained a long-running feud with Edward de Vere, 17th Earl of Oxford. Knyvet's niece, Anne Vavasour, was the Earl's mistress, and on 21 March 1581 bore his illegitimate son, Edward Vere. On numerous occasions, servants on either side were killed. On one occasion, Knyvet injured Oxford, apparently in the leg.\n\nWhen Lord Knyvet died in July 1622 his will provided for the foundation of a free-school in Stanwell — the Lord Knyvet School was founded in 1624. An effigy of him and his wife features in the chancel of Stanwell's St Mary's parish church.\n\nKnyvet occupied as his London townhouse the first house known on the site of 10 Downing Street, the modern-day residence of the British Prime Minister, in a large timber and brick building with an L-shaped garden. It was first leased to him in 1581 by Queen Elizabeth I at which point it became known as Knyvet House, and his lifetime lease was extended in 1604 to extend to his heirs. The house was described by the parliamentary commissioners in 1650 as:\n\nKnyvett built new lodgings for the women of Princess Mary's household in 1605, and he supervised improvements to St James's Park. \n\nThe house passed to his niece, Elizabeth Hampden, aunt of Oliver Cromwell, and in her lifetime it adopted her surname. After the lease expired on Hampden House and garden in 1682, George Downing redeveloped the site and adjoining premises.\n"}
{"id": "2063581", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2063581", "title": "Hanns Braun", "text": "Hanns Braun\n\nHanns Braun (26 October 1886 – 9 October 1918) was a German athlete.\n\nHe was born in \"Wernfels\" (today Spalt) and died near Saint-Quentin, Aisne, France as fighter-pilot in an airplane-crash in World War I.\n\nHe won the bronze medal in the men's 800 metres race at the 1908 Summer Olympics in London with a time of 1:55.2, which was .8 seconds faster than the previous Olympic record but 3 seconds slower than the time of Mel Sheppard, the winner of the race. His semifinal time had been 1:58.0.\n\nBraun was also a member of the silver medal German medley relay team. He ran the final 800 metres of the 1600 metre race, following Arthur Hoffmann, Hans Eicke, and Otto Trieloff. The team had an easy time defeating the Dutch squad in the first round, finishing in a time of 3:43.2. The final was a more difficult race, however, and the Germans never had a chance of catching the Americans. The first three runners found themselves in third place, and Braun began his leg five yards behind the Hungarian runner. He was able to catch up and pass Ödön Bodor, however, giving the Germans a second-place victory of a tenth of a second at 3:32.4.\n\nBraun also ran in the 1500 metres. He placed third in his first round (semifinal) heat with a time of 4:18.2 and did not advance to the final.\n\n\n"}
