{"id": "2134878", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2134878", "title": "Byzantine navy", "text": "Byzantine navy\n\nThe Byzantine navy was the naval force of the East Roman or Byzantine Empire. Like the empire it served, it was a direct continuation from its Imperial Roman predecessor, but played a far greater role in the defence and survival of the state than its earlier iteration. While the fleets of the unified Roman Empire faced few great naval threats, operating as a policing force vastly inferior in power and prestige to the legions, the sea became vital to the very existence of the Byzantine state, which several historians have called a \"maritime empire\".\n\nThe first threat to Roman hegemony in the Mediterranean was posed by the Vandals in the 5th century, but their threat was ended by the wars of Justinian I in the 6th century. The re-establishment of a permanently maintained fleet and the introduction of the \"dromon\" galley in the same period also marks the point when the Byzantine navy began departing from its late Roman roots and developing its own characteristic identity. This process would be furthered with the onset of the Muslim conquests in the 7th century. Following the loss of the Levant and later Africa, the Mediterranean Sea was transformed from a \"Roman lake\" into a battleground between Byzantines and Arabs. In this struggle, the Byzantine fleets were critical, not only for the defence of the Empire's far-flung possessions around the Mediterranean basin, but also for repelling seaborne attacks against the imperial capital of Constantinople itself. Through the use of the newly invented \"Greek fire\", the Byzantine navy's best-known and feared secret weapon, Constantinople was saved from several sieges and numerous naval engagements were won for the Byzantines.\n\nInitially, the defence of the Byzantine coasts and the approaches to Constantinople was borne by the great fleet of the \"Karabisianoi\". Progressively however it was split up into several regional (thematic) fleets, while a central Imperial Fleet was maintained at Constantinople, guarding the city and forming the core of naval expeditions. By the late 8th century, the Byzantine navy, a well-organized and maintained force, was again the dominant maritime power in the Mediterranean. The antagonism with the Muslim navies continued with alternating success, but in the 10th century, the Byzantines were able to recover a position of supremacy in the Eastern Mediterranean.\n\nDuring the 11th century, the navy, like the Empire itself, began to decline. Faced with new naval challenges from the West, the Byzantines were increasingly forced to rely on the navies of Italian city-states like Venice and Genoa, with disastrous effects on Byzantium's economy and sovereignty. A period of recovery under the Komnenians was followed by another period of decline, which culminated in the disastrous dissolution of the Empire by the Fourth Crusade in 1204. After the Empire was restored in 1261, several emperors of the Palaiologan dynasty tried to revive the navy, but their efforts had only a temporary effect. By the mid-14th century, the Byzantine fleet, which once could put hundreds of warships to sea, was limited to a few dozen at best, and control of the Aegean passed definitively to the Italian and Ottoman navies. The diminished navy, however, continued to be active until the fall of the Byzantine Empire to the Ottomans in 1453.\n\nThe Byzantine navy, like the Eastern Roman or Byzantine Empire itself, continued the systems of the Roman Empire. After the Battle of Actium in 31 BC, in the absence of any external threat in the Mediterranean, the Roman navy performed mostly policing and escort duties. Massive sea battles, like those fought centuries before in the Punic Wars (264 to 146 BC), no longer occurred, and the Roman fleets comprised relatively small vessels, best suited to their new tasks. By the early 4th century AD, the permanent Roman fleets had dwindled, so that when the fleets of the rival emperors Constantine the Great and Licinius clashed in 324 AD, they were composed to a great extent of newly-built or -commandeered ships from the port cities of the Eastern Mediterranean. The civil wars of the 4th and early 5th centuries, however, did spur a revival of naval activity, with fleets mostly employed to transport armies. Considerable naval forces continued to be employed in the Western Mediterranean throughout the first quarter of the fifth century, especially from North Africa, but Rome's mastery of the Mediterranean was challenged when Africa was overrun by the Vandals (429 to 442).\n\nThe new Vandalic Kingdom of Carthage, under the capable Geiseric (King of the Vandals from 428 to 477), immediately launched raids against the coasts of Italy and Greece, even sacking and plundering Rome in 455. The Vandal raids continued unabated over the next two decades, despite repeated Roman attempts to defeat them. The Western Empire was impotent, its navy having dwindled to almost nothing, but the eastern emperors could still call upon the resources and naval expertise of the eastern Mediterranean. A first Eastern expedition in 448, however, went no further than Sicily, and in 460, the Vandals attacked and destroyed a Western Roman invasion fleet at Cartagena in Spain. Finally, in 468, a huge Eastern expedition assembled under Basiliscus, reputedly numbering 1,113 ships and 100,000 men, but it failed disastrously. About 600 ships were lost to fire ships, and the financial cost of 130,000 pounds of gold and 700 000 pounds of silver nearly bankrupted the Empire. This forced the Romans to come to terms with Geiseric and to sign a peace treaty. After Geiseric's death in 477, however, the Vandal threat receded.\n\nThe 6th century marked the rebirth of Roman naval power. In 508, as antagonism with the Ostrogothic Kingdom of Theodoric flared up, the Emperor Anastasius I (491–518) is reported to have sent a fleet of 100 warships to raid the coasts of Italy. In 513, the general Vitalian revolted against Anastasius. The rebels assembled a fleet of 200 ships which, despite some initial successes, were destroyed by admiral Marinus, who employed a sulphur-based incendiary substance to defeat them.\n\nIn 533, taking advantage of the absence of the Vandal fleet, sent to suppress a revolt in Sardinia, an army of 15,000 under Belisarius was transported to Africa by an invasion fleet of 92 dromons and 500 transports, beginning the Vandalic War, the first of the wars of the reconquest of Emperor Justinian I (527–565). These were largely amphibious operations, made possible by the control of the Mediterranean waterways, and the fleet played a vital role in carrying supplies and reinforcements to the widely dispersed Byzantine expeditionary forces and garrisons. This fact was not lost on the Byzantines' enemies. Already in the 520s, Theodoric had planned to build a massive fleet directed against the Byzantines and the Vandals, but his death in 526 limited the extent to which these plans were realized. In 535, the Gothic War began with a double-pronged Byzantine offensive, with a fleet again carrying Belisarius' army to Sicily and then Italy, and another army invading Dalmatia. Byzantine control of the sea was of great strategic importance, allowing the smaller Byzantine army to successfully occupy the peninsula by 540.\n\nIn 541 however, the new Ostrogoth king, Totila, created a fleet of 400 warships with which to deny the seas around Italy to the Empire. Two Byzantine fleets were destroyed near Naples in 542, and in 546, Belisarius personally commanded 200 ships against the Gothic fleet that blockaded the mouths of the Tiber, in an unsuccessful effort to relieve Rome. In 550, Totila invaded Sicily, and over the next year, his 300-ship fleet captured Sardinia and Corsica, and raided Corfu and the coast of Epirus. However, a defeat in a sea battle off Sena Gallica marked the beginning of the final Imperial ascendancy. With the final conquest of Italy and southern Spain under Justinian, the Mediterranean once again became a \"Roman lake\".\n\nDespite the subsequent loss of much of Italy to the Lombards, the Byzantines maintained control of the seas around the peninsula. As the Lombards rarely ventured to sea, the Byzantines were able to retain several coastal strips of Italian territory for centuries. The only major naval action of the next 80 years occurred during the Siege of Constantinople by the Sassanid Persians, Avars and Slavs in 626. During that siege, the Slavs' fleet of \"monoxyla\" was intercepted by the Byzantine fleet and destroyed, denying the Persian army passage across the Bosporus and eventually forcing the Avars to retreat.\n\nDuring the 640s, the Muslim conquest of Syria and Egypt created a new threat to Byzantium. Not only did the Arabs conquer significant recruiting and revenue-producing areas, but, after the utility of a strong navy was demonstrated by the short-lived Byzantine recapture of Alexandria in 644, they took to creating a navy of their own. In this effort the new Muslim elite, which came from the inland-oriented northern part of the Arabian peninsula, largely relied on the resources and manpower of the conquered Levant (especially the Copts of Egypt), which until a few years previously had provided ships and crews for the Byzantines. There is, however, evidence that in the new naval bases in Palestine shipwrights from Persia and Iraq were also employed. The lack of illustrations earlier than the 14th century means that nothing is known about the specifics of the early Muslim warships, although it is usually assumed that their naval efforts drew upon the existing Mediterranean maritime tradition. Given a largely shared nautical nomenclature, and the centuries-long interaction between the two cultures, Byzantine and Arab ships shared many similarities. This similarity also extended to tactics and general fleet organization; translations of Byzantine military manuals were available to the Arab admirals.\n\nAfter seizing Cyprus in 649 and raiding Rhodes, Crete and Sicily, the young Arab navy decisively defeated the Byzantines under the personal command of Emperor Constans II (641–668) in the Battle of the Masts of 655. This catastrophic Byzantine defeat opened up the Mediterranean to the Arabs and began a centuries-long series of naval conflicts over the control of the Mediterranean waterways. From the reign of Muawiyah I (661–680), raids intensified, as preparations were made for a great assault on Constantinople itself. In the long first Arab siege of Constantinople, the Byzantine fleet proved instrumental to the survival of the Empire: the Arab fleets were defeated through the use of its newly developed secret weapon, \"Greek fire\". The Muslim advance in Asia Minor and the Aegean was halted, and an agreement to a thirty-year truce concluded soon after.\n\nIn the 680s, Justinian II (685–695 and 705–711) paid attention to the needs of the navy, strengthening it by the resettlement of over 18,500 Mardaites along the southern coasts of the Empire, where they were employed as marines and rowers. Nevertheless, the Arab naval threat intensified as they gradually took control of North Africa in the 680s and 690s. The last Byzantine stronghold, Carthage, fell in 698, although a Byzantine naval expedition managed to briefly retake it. The Arab governor Musa bin Nusair built a new city and naval base at Tunis, and 1,000 Coptic shipwrights were brought to construct a new fleet, which would challenge Byzantine control of the western Mediterranean. Thus, from the early 8th century on, Muslim raids unfolded unceasingly against Byzantine holdings in the Western Mediterranean, especially Sicily. In addition, the new fleet would allow the Muslims to complete their conquest of the Maghreb and to successfully invade and capture most of the Visigoth-controlled Iberian Peninsula.\n\nThe Byzantines were unable to respond effectively to the Muslim advance in Africa because the two decades between 695 and 715 were a period of great domestic turmoil. They did react with raids of their own in the East, such as the one in 709 against Egypt which captured the local admiral, but they also were aware of a coming onslaught: as Caliph al-Walid I (705–715) readied his forces for a renewed assault against Constantinople, Emperor Anastasios II (713–715) prepared the capital, and mounted an unsuccessful pre-emptive strike against the Muslim naval preparations. Anastasios was soon overthrown by Theodosius III (715–717), who in turn was replaced, just as the Muslim army was advancing through Anatolia, by Leo III the Isaurian (717–741). It was Leo III who faced the second and final Arab siege of Constantinople. The use of Greek fire, which devastated the Arab fleet, was again instrumental in the Byzantine victory, while a harsh winter and Bulgar attacks further sapped the besiegers' strength.\n\nIn the aftermath of the siege, the retreating remains of the Arab fleet were decimated in a storm, and Byzantine forces launched a counter-offensive, with a fleet sacking Laodicea and an army driving the Arabs from Asia Minor. For the next three decades, naval warfare featured constant raids from both sides, with the Byzantines launching repeated attacks against the Muslim naval bases in Syria (Laodicea), and Egypt (Damietta and Tinnis). In 727, a revolt of the thematic fleets, largely motivated by resentment against the Emperor's iconoclasm, was put down by the imperial fleet through the use of Greek fire. Despite the losses this entailed, some 390 warships were reportedly sent to attack Damietta in 739, and in 746 the Byzantines decisively defeated the Alexandrian fleet at Keramaia in Cyprus, breaking the naval power of the Umayyad Caliphate.\n\nThe Byzantines followed this up with the destruction of the North African flotillas and coupled their successes at sea with severe trading limitations imposed on Muslim traders. Given the Empire's new ability to control the waterways, this strangled Muslim maritime trade. With the collapse of the Umayyad state shortly thereafter and the increasing fragmentation of the Muslim world, the Byzantine navy was left as the sole organized naval force in the Mediterranean. Thus, during the latter half of the 8th century, the Byzantines enjoyed a second period of complete naval superiority. It is no coincidence that in the many Islamic apocalyptic texts composed and transmitted during the first and second Islamic centuries, the End Times are preceded by a seaborne Byzantine invasion. Many traditions from the period stress that manning the guard posts (\"ribāṭ\") on the coasts of Syria is tantamount to partaking in the \"jihād\", and authorities like Abu Hurayrah were cited as considering one day of \"ribāṭ\" more pious an act than a night of prayer in the Kaaba.\n\nThese successes enabled Emperor Constantine V (741–775) to shift the fleet from the Mediterranean to the Black Sea during his campaigns against the Bulgars in the 760s. In 763, a fleet of 800 ships carrying 9,600 cavalries and some infantry sailed to Anchialus, where he scored a significant victory, but in 766, a second fleet, allegedly of 2,600 ships, again bound for Anchialus, sank \"en route\". At the same time, however, the Isaurian emperors undermined Byzantium's naval strength: with the Arab threat gone for the moment, and with the largely iconodule naval themes staunchly opposed to their iconoclastic policies, the emperors reduced the navy's size and downgraded the naval themes.\n\nThe Byzantine naval predominance lasted until the early 9th century when a succession of disasters at the hands of the resurgent Muslim fleets spelled its end and inaugurated an era that would represent the zenith of Muslim ascendancy. Already in 790, the Byzantines suffered a major defeat in the Gulf of Antalya, and raids against Cyprus and Crete recommenced during the reign of Harun al-Rashid (786–809). Around the Mediterranean, new powers were rising, foremost amongst them the Carolingian Empire, while in 803, the \"Pax Nicephori\" recognized the \"de facto\" independence of Byzantine Venice, which was further entrenched by the repulsion of a Byzantine attack in 809. At the same time, in Ifriqiya, the new Aghlabid dynasty was established, which immediately engaged in raids throughout the central Mediterranean.\n\nThe Byzantines, on the other hand, were weakened by a series of catastrophic defeats against the Bulgars, followed in 820 by the Revolt of Thomas the Slav, which attracted the support of a large part of the Byzantine armed forces, including the thematic fleets. Despite its suppression, the revolt had severely depleted the Empire's defences. As a result, Crete fell between 824 and 827 to a band of Andalusian exiles. Three successive Byzantine recovery attempts failed over the next few years, and the island became a base for Muslim piratical activity in the Aegean, radically upsetting the balance of power in the region. Despite some Byzantine successes over the Cretan corsairs, and the razing of Damietta by a Byzantine fleet of 85 ships in 853, Arab naval power in the Levant was steadily reviving under Abbasid rule. Further Byzantine attempts to recover Crete, in 843 and 866, were complete failures.\nThe situation was even worse in the West. A critical blow was inflicted on the Empire in 827, as the Aghlabids began the slow conquest of Sicily, aided by the defection of the Byzantine commander Euphemios and the island's thematic fleet. In 838, the Muslims crossed over into Italy, taking Taranto and Brindisi, followed soon by Bari. Venetian operations against them were unsuccessful, and throughout the 840s, the Arabs were freely raiding Italy and the Adriatic, even attacking Rome in 846. Attacks by the Lombards and Lothair I failed to dislodge the Muslims from Italy, while two large-scale Byzantine attempts to recover Sicily were heavily defeated in 840 and 859. By 850, the Muslim fleets, together with large numbers of independent \"ghazi\" raiders, had emerged as the major power of the Mediterranean, putting the Byzantines and the Christians in general on the defensive.\n\nThe same period, when a battered Byzantium defended itself against enemies on all fronts, also saw the emergence of a new, unexpected threat: the Rus' made their first appearance in Byzantine history with a raid against Paphlagonia in the 830s, followed by a major expedition in 860.\n\nDuring the course of the later 9th and the 10th century, as the Caliphate fractured into smaller states and Arab power became weakened, the Byzantines launched a series of successful campaigns against them. This \"Byzantine Reconquest\" was overseen by the able sovereigns of the Macedonian dynasty (867–1056), and marked the noontide of the Byzantine state.\n\nThe ascension of Emperor Basil I (867–886) heralded this revival, as he embarked on an aggressive foreign policy. Continuing the policies of his predecessor, Michael III (842–867), he showed great care to the fleet, and as a result, successive victories followed. In 868, a fleet under the \"droungarios tou plōïmou\" Niketas Ooryphas relieved Ragusa from an Arab siege and re-established Byzantine presence in the area. A few years later, he twice heavily defeated the Cretan pirates at Kardia and in the Corinthian Gulf, temporarily securing the Aegean. Cyprus also was temporarily recovered and Bari occupied. At the same time, however, the Muslim presence in Cilicia was strengthened, and Tarsos became a major base for land and seaborne attacks against Byzantine territory, especially under the famed emir Yazaman al-Khadim (882–891), despite the heavy defeat of one of his raids before Euripos.\n\nIn the West, the Muslims continued to make steady advances, as the local Byzantine forces proved inadequate: the Empire was forced to rely on the aid of their nominal Italian subjects, and had to resort to the transfer of the eastern fleets to Italy to achieve any progress. Following the fall of Enna in 855, the Byzantines were confined to the eastern shore of Sicily, and under increasing pressure. A relief expedition in 868 achieved little. Syracuse was attacked again in 869, and in 870, Malta fell to the Aghlabids. Muslim corsairs raided the Adriatic, and although they were driven out of Apulia, in the early 880s they established bases along the western Italian coast, from where they would not be completely dislodged until 915. In 878, Syracuse, the main Byzantine stronghold in Sicily, was attacked again and fell, largely because the Imperial Fleet was occupied with transporting marble for the construction of the \"Nea Ekklesia\", Basil's new church. In 880, Ooryphas' successor, the \"droungarios\" Nasar, scored a significant victory in a night battle over the Aghlabids who were raiding the Ionian Islands. He then proceeded to raid Sicily, carrying off much booty, before defeating another Muslim fleet off Punta Stilo. At the same time, another Byzantine squadron scored a significant victory at Naples. These successes allowed a short-lived Byzantine counter-offensive to develop in the West in the 870s and 880s under Nikephoros Phokas the Elder, expanding the Byzantine foothold in Apulia and Calabria and forming the \"thema\" of Longobardia, which would later evolve into the Catepanate of Italy. A heavy defeat off Milazzo in 888, however, signalled the virtual disappearance of major Byzantine naval activity in the seas around Italy for the next century.\n\nDespite the successes under Basil, during the reign of his successor Leo VI the Wise (886–912), the Empire again faced serious threats. In the north, a war broke out against the Bulgarian Tsar Simeon, and a part of the Imperial Fleet was used in 895 to ferry an army of Magyars across the Danube to raid Bulgaria. The Bulgarian war produced several costly defeats, while at the same time the Arab naval threat reached new heights, with successive raids devastating the shores of Byzantium's naval heartland, the Aegean Sea. In 891 or 893, the Arab fleet sacked the island of Samos and took its \"stratēgos\" prisoner, and in 898, the eunuch admiral Raghib carried off 3,000 Byzantine sailors of the \"Kibyrrhaiotai\" as prisoners. These losses denuded Byzantine defences, opening the Aegean up to raids by the Syrian fleets. The first heavy blow came in 901, when the renegade Damian of Tarsus plundered Demetrias, while in the next year, Taormina, the Empire's last outpost in Sicily, fell to the Muslims. The greatest disaster, however, came in 904, when another renegade, Leo of Tripoli, raided the Aegean. His fleet penetrated even into the Dardanelles, before proceeding to sack the Empire's second city, Thessalonica, all while the Empire's fleet remained passive in the face of the Arabs' superior numbers. Furthermore, the Cretan corsairs' raids reached such intensity, that by the end of Leo's reign, most of the southern Aegean islands were either abandoned or forced to accept Muslim control and pay tribute to the pirates. It is no surprise that a defensive and cautious mindset was prevalent in Leo's contemporary instructions on naval warfare (\"Naumachica\").\n\nThe most distinguished Byzantine admiral of the period was Himerios, the \"logothetēs tou dromou\". Appointed admiral in 904, he was unable to prevent the sack of Thessalonica, but he scored the first victory in 905 or 906, and in 910, he led a successful attack on Laodicea in Syria. The city was sacked and its hinterland plundered and ravaged without the loss of any ships. A year later, however, a huge expedition of 112 dromons and 75 \"pamphyloi\" with 43,000 men, that had sailed under Himerios against the Emirate of Crete, not only failed to recover the island, but on its return voyage, it was ambushed and comprehensively defeated by Leo of Tripoli off Chios (October 912).\n\nThe tide began to turn again after 920. Coincidentally, the same year witnessed the ascension of an admiral, Romanos Lekapenos (920–944), to the imperial throne, for the second (after Tiberios Apsimaros) and last time in the Empire's history. Finally, in 923, the decisive defeat of Leo of Tripoli off Lemnos, coupled with the death of Damian during a siege of a Byzantine fortress in the next year, marked the beginning of the Byzantine resurgence.\n\nThe Empire's growing might be displayed in 942, when Emperor Romanos I dispatched a squadron to the Tyrrhenian Sea. Using Greek fire, the squadron destroyed a fleet of Muslim corsairs from Fraxinetum. In 949, however, another expedition of about 100 ships, launched by Constantine VII (945–959) against the Emirate of Crete, ended in disaster, due to the incompetence of its commander, Constantine Gongyles. A renewed offensive in Italy in 951–952 was defeated by the Fatimids, but another expedition in 956 and the loss of an Ifriqiyan fleet in a storm in 958 temporarily stabilized the situation in the peninsula. In 962, the Fatimids launched an assault on the remaining Byzantine strongholds on Sicily; Taormina fell on Christmas Day 962 and Rometta was besieged. In response, a major Byzantine expedition was launched in 964 but ended in disaster. The Fatimids defeated the Byzantine army before Rametta and then annihilated the fleet at the Battle of the Straits, notably through the use of divers bearing incendiary devices. Both powers focusing their attention elsewhere, a truce was concluded between Byzantium and the Fatimids in 967, which curbed Byzantine naval activity in the West: the seas of Italy were left to the local Byzantine forces and the various Italian states until after 1025, when Byzantium again actively intervened in southern Italy and Sicily.\n\nIn the East, in 956 the \"stratēgos\" Basil Hexamilites inflicted a crushing defeat on the Tarsos fleet, opening the way for another grand expedition to recover Crete. It was entrusted to Nikephoros Phokas, who in 960 set out with a fleet of 100 dromons, 200 \"chelandia\", and 308 transports, carrying an overall force of 77,000 men, to subdue the island. The conquest of Crete removed the direct threat to the Aegean, Byzantium's naval heartland, while Phokas' subsequent operations led to the recovery of Cilicia (in 963), Cyprus (in 968), and the northern Syrian coast (in 969). These conquests removed the threat of the once mighty Muslim Syrian fleets, effectively re-establishing Byzantine dominance in the Eastern Mediterranean so that Nikephoros Phokas could boast to Liutprand of Cremona with the words \"I alone command the sea\". A few raids and naval clashes occurred as antagonism with the Fatimids mounted in the late 990s, but peaceful relations were restored soon after, and the Eastern Mediterranean remained relatively calm for several decades to come.\n\nDuring the same period, the Byzantine fleet was active in the Black Sea as well: a Rus' fleet that was threatening Constantinople in 941 was destroyed by 15 hastily assembled old ships equipped with Greek fire, and the navy played an important role in the Rus'–Byzantine War of 970–971, when John I Tzimiskes (969–976) sent 300 ships to blockade the Kievan Rus' from retreating over the Danube.\n\nThroughout most of the 11th century, the Byzantine navy faced few challenges. The Muslim threat had receded, as their navies declined and relations between the Fatimids, especially, and the Empire were largely peaceful. The last Arab raid against imperial territory was recorded in 1035 in the Cyclades, and was defeated in the next year. Another Rus' attack in 1043 was beaten back with ease, and with the exception of a short-lived attempt to recover Sicily under George Maniakes, no major naval expeditions were undertaken either. Inevitably, this long period of peace and prosperity led to complacency and neglect of the military. Already in the reign of Basil II (976–1025), the defence of the Adriatic was entrusted to the Venetians. Under Constantine IX (1042–1055), both the army and navy were reduced as military service was increasingly commuted in favour of cash payments, resulting in an increased dependency upon foreign mercenaries. The large thematic fleets declined and were replaced by small squadrons subject to the local military commanders, geared more towards the suppression of piracy than towards confronting a major maritime foe.\n\nBy the last quarter of the 11th century, the Byzantine navy was a shadow of its former self, having declined through neglect, the incompetence of its officers, and lack of funds. Kekaumenos, writing in c. 1078, laments that \"on the pretext of reasonable patrols, [the Byzantine ships] are doing nothing else but ferrying wheat, barley, pulse, cheese, wine, meat, olive oil, a great deal of money, and anything else\" from the islands and coasts of the Aegean, while they \"flee [the enemy] before they have even caught sight of them, and thus become an embarrassment to the Romans\". By the time Kekaumenos wrote, new and powerful adversaries had risen. In the West, the Norman Kingdom of Sicily, which had expelled the Byzantines from Southern Italy and had conquered Sicily, was now casting its eye on the Byzantine Adriatic coasts and beyond. In the East, the disastrous Battle of Manzikert in 1071 had resulted in the loss of Asia Minor, the Empire's military and economic heartland, to the Seljuk Turks, who by 1081 had established their capital at Nicaea, barely a hundred miles south of Constantinople. Soon after, Turkish as well as Christian pirates appeared in the Aegean. The Byzantine thematic fleets, which once policed the seas, were by then so depleted by neglect and the successive civil wars that they were incapable of responding effectively.\n\nAt this point, the sorry state of the Byzantine fleet had dire consequences. The Norman invasion could not be forestalled, and their army seized Corfu, landed unopposed in Epirus and laid siege to Dyrrhachium, starting a decade of war which consumed the scant resources of the embattled Empire. The new emperor, Alexios I Komnenos (1081–1118), was forced to call upon the assistance of the Venetians, who in the 1070s had already asserted their control of the Adriatic and Dalmatia against the Normans. In 1082, in exchange for their help, he granted them major trading concessions. This treaty, and subsequent extensions of these privileges, practically rendered the Byzantines hostage to the Venetians (and later also the Genoese and the Pisans). Historian John Birkenmeier notes that:\n\nIn the clashes with the Normans through the 1080s, the only effective Byzantine naval force was a squadron commanded, and possibly maintained, by Michael Maurex, a veteran naval commander of previous decades. Together with the Venetians, he initially prevailed over the Norman fleet, but the joint fleet was caught off guard and defeated by the Normans off Corfu in 1084.\n\nAlexios inevitably realized the importance of having his own fleet, and despite his preoccupation with land operations, he took steps to re-establish the navy's strength. His efforts bore some success, especially in countering the attempts by Turkish emirs like Tzachas of Smyrna to launch fleets in the Aegean. The fleet under John Doukas was subsequently used to suppress revolts in Crete and Cyprus. With the aid of the Crusaders, Alexios was able to regain the coasts of Western Anatolia and expand his influence eastwards: in 1104, a Byzantine squadron of 10 ships captured Laodicea and other coastal towns as far as Tripoli. By 1118, Alexios was able to pass on a small navy to his successor, John II Komnenos (1118–1143). Like his father, John II concentrated on the army and regular land-based campaigns, but he took care to maintain the navy's strength and provisioning system. In 1122, however, John refused to renew the trading privileges that Alexios had granted to the Venetians. In retaliation, the Venetians plundered several Byzantine islands, and, with the Byzantine fleet unable to confront them, John was forced to renew the treaty in 1125. Evidently, the Byzantine navy at this point was not sufficiently powerful for John to successfully confront Venice, especially since there were other pressing demands on the Empire's resources. Not long after this incident, John II, acting on the advice of his finance minister John of Poutza, is reported to have cut funding to the fleet and transferred it to the army, equipping ships on an \"ad hoc\" basis only.\n\nThe navy enjoyed a major comeback under the ambitious emperor Manuel I Komnenos (1143–1180), who used it extensively as a powerful tool of foreign policy in his relations with the Latin and Muslim states of the Eastern Mediterranean. During the early years of his reign, the Byzantine naval forces were still weak: in 1147, the fleet of Roger II of Sicily under George of Antioch was able to raid Corfu, the Ionian islands and into the Aegean almost unopposed. In the next year, with Venetian aid, an army accompanied by a very large fleet (allegedly 500 warships and 1,000 transports) was sent to recapture Corfu and the Ionian Islands from the Normans. In retaliation, a Norman fleet of 40 ships reached Constantinople itself, demonstrating in the Bosporus off the Great Palace and raiding its suburbs. On its return voyage however it was attacked and destroyed by a Byzantine or Venetian fleet.\n\nIn 1155, a Byzantine squadron of 10 ships in support of Norman rebel Robert III of Loritello arrived at Ancona, launching the last Byzantine bid to regain Southern Italy. Despite initial successes and reinforcements under \"megas doux\" Alexios Komnenos Bryennios, the expedition was ultimately defeated in 1156, and 4 Byzantine ships were captured. By 1169, the efforts of Manuel had evidently borne fruit, as a large and purely Byzantine fleet of about 150 galleys, 10-12 large transports and 60 horse transports under \"megas doux\" Andronikos Kontostephanos was sent to invade Egypt in cooperation with the ruler of the Crusader Kingdom of Jerusalem. The invasion failed, however, and the Byzantines lost half the fleet in a storm on the way back.\n\nFollowing the Empire-wide seizure and imprisonment of all Venetians in March 1171, the Byzantine fleet was strong enough to deter an outright attack by the Venetians, who sailed to Chios and settled for negotiations. Manuel sent a fleet of 150 ships under Kontostephanos to confront them there and employed delaying tactics, until, weakened by disease, the Venetians began to withdraw and were pursued by Kontostephanos' fleet. It was a remarkable reversal of fortunes, compared with the humiliation of 1125. In 1177, another fleet of 70 galleys and 80 auxiliary ships under Kontostephanos, destined for Egypt, returned home after appearing off Acre, as Count Philip of Flanders and many important nobles of the Kingdom of Jerusalem refused to participate in the campaign. However, by the end of Manuel's reign, the strains of constant warfare on all fronts and the Emperor's various grandiose projects had become evident: the historian Niketas Choniates attributes the rise of piracy in the latter years of Manuel's reign to the diversion of the funds intended for the maintenance of the fleet for other needs of the imperial treasury.\n\nAfter the death of Manuel I and the subsequent demise of the Komnenian dynasty in 1185, the navy declined swiftly. The maintenance of galleys and the upkeep of proficient crews were very expensive, and neglect led to a rapid deterioration of the fleet. Already by 1182 the Byzantines had to pay Venetian mercenaries to crew some of their galleys, but in the 1180s, as the bulk of the Komnenian naval establishment persisted, expeditions of 70–100 ships are still recorded in contemporary sources. Thus Emperor Andronikos I Komnenos (1183–1185) could still gather 100 warships in 1185 to resist and later defeat a Norman fleet in the Sea of Marmara. However, the subsequent peace treaty included a clause that required the Normans to furnish a fleet for the Empire. This, together with a similar agreement made by Isaac II Angelos (1185–1195 and 1203–1204) with Venice the next year, in which the Republic would provide 40–100 galleys at six months' notice in exchange for favourable trading concessions, is a telling indication that the Byzantine government was aware of the inadequacy of its own naval establishment.\n\nThe period also saw the rise of piracy across the Eastern Mediterranean. The pirate activity was high in the Aegean, while pirate captains frequently offering themselves as mercenaries to one or the other of the region's powers, providing for the latter a quick and cheap way of raising a fleet for particular expeditions, without the costs of a standing navy. Thus a Byzantine fleet of 66 vessels sent by Isaac II to recapture Cyprus from Isaac Komnenos was destroyed by the pirate Margaritus of Brindisi, who was in the employ of the Normans of Sicily. The depredations of the pirates, especially the Genoese captain Kaphoures, described by Niketas Choniates and his brother, the Metropolitan of Athens Michael Choniates, finally forced the Angeloi to action. The fleet tax was once again levied from the coastal regions and a navy of 30 ships was equipped, which was entrusted to the Calabrian pirate Steiriones. Despite scoring a few early successes, Steiriones' fleet was destroyed in a surprise attack by Kaphoures off Sestos. A second fleet, augmented by Pisan vessels and again commanded by Steiriones, was finally able to defeat Kaphoures and end his raids.\nAt the same time, however, the then \"megas doux\", Michael Stryphnos, was accused by Niketas Choniates of enriching himself by selling off the equipment of the imperial fleet, while by the early 13th century the authority of the central government had weakened to such an extent that various local potentates began seizing power in the provinces. The general atmosphere was one of lawlessness, which enabled men like Leo Sgouros in southern Greece and the imperial governor of Samos, Pegonites, to use their ships for their own purposes, launching raids of their own. Even Emperor Alexios III Angelos (1195–1203) is said to have licensed one of his commanders, Constantine Phrangopoulos, to launch pirate raids against commerce in the Black Sea.\n\nThe Byzantine state and its fleet were thus in no state to resist the naval might of Venice, which supported the Fourth Crusade. When Alexios III and Stryphnos were alerted to the fact that the Crusade was sailing for Constantinople, only 20 \"wretched and decayed\" vessels could be found, according to Niketas Choniates. During the first Crusader siege of the city in 1203, the attempts of the Byzantine ships to oppose the Crusader fleet from entering the Golden Horn were repulsed, and the Byzantine attempt to employ fireships failed due to the Venetians' skill at handling their ships.\n\nAfter the capture of Constantinople by the Fourth Crusade in 1204, the Byzantine Empire was partitioned between the Crusaders, while three Greek successor states were set up, the Despotate of Epirus, the Empire of Trebizond, and the Empire of Nicaea, each claiming the Byzantine imperial title. The former did not maintain a fleet, the Trapezuntine navy was minuscule and mostly used for patrols and transporting troops, while the Nicaeans initially followed a policy of consolidation and used their fleet for coastal defence. Under John III Vatatzes (1222–1254), a more energetic foreign policy was pursued, and in 1225, the Nicaean fleet was able to occupy the islands of Lesbos, Chios, Samos, and Icaria. It was, however, no match for the Venetians: attempting to blockade Constantinople in 1235, the Nicaean navy was defeated by a far smaller Venetian force, and in another similar attempt in 1241, the Nicaeans were again routed. Nicaean efforts during the 1230s to support a local rebellion in Crete against Venice were also only partially successful, with the last Nicaean troops being forced to leave the island in 1236. Aware of the weakness of his navy, in March 1261 the Emperor Michael VIII Palaiologos (1259–1282) concluded the Treaty of Nymphaeum with the Genoese, securing their aid against Venice at sea, in return for commercial privileges.\nFollowing the recapture of Constantinople a few months later however, Michael VIII was able to focus his attention on building up his own fleet. In the early 1260s, the Byzantine navy was still weak and depended still greatly on Genoese aid. Even so, the allies were not able to stand up to Venice in a direct confrontation, as evidenced by the defeat of a combined Byzantine–Genoese fleet of 48 ships by a much smaller Venetian fleet in 1263. Taking advantage of the Italians' preoccupation with the ongoing Venetian–Genoese war, by 1270 Michael's efforts had produced a strong navy of 80 ships, with several Latin privateers sailing under imperial colours. In the same year, a fleet of 24 galleys besieged the town of Oreos in Negroponte (Euboea), and defeated a Latin fleet of 20 galleys. This marked the first successful independent Byzantine naval operation and the beginning of an organized naval campaign in the Aegean that would continue throughout the 1270s and would result in the recapture, albeit briefly, of many islands from the Latins.\n\nThis revival did not last long. Following the death of Charles of Anjou in 1285 and the end of the threat of an invasion from Italy, Michael's successor Andronikos II Palaiologos (1282–1328) assumed that, by relying on the naval strength of his Genoese allies, he could do without the maintenance of a fleet, whose particularly heavy expenditure the increasingly cash-strapped treasury could no longer afford. At the same time, Andronikos was less concerned with the West and more with affairs in Asia Minor and his—eventually futile—attempt to stop the Turkish advance there, a policy where the fleet lacked a role. Consequently, the entire fleet was disbanded, its crews dismissed and the ships are broken up or left to rot. The results were quick to follow: during Andronikos' long reign, the Turks gradually took permanent possession of the Aegean coasts of Anatolia, with the Empire unable to reverse the situation, while the Venetian fleet was able to attack Constantinople and raid its suburbs at will during the 1296–1302 war.\n\nAndronikos' decision aroused considerable opposition and criticism from contemporary scholars and officials almost from the outset, and historians like Pachymeres and Nikephoros Gregoras dwell long on the disastrous long-term effects of this short-sighted decision: piracy flourished, often augmented by the crews of the disbanded fleet who took service under Turkish and Latin masters, Constantinople was rendered defenceless towards the Italian maritime powers, and more and more Aegean islands fell under foreign rule—including Chios to the Genoese Benedetto Zaccaria, Rhodes and the Dodecanese to the Hospitallers, Lesbos and other islands to the Gattilusi. As Gregoras commented, \"if [the Byzantines] had remained masters of the seas, as they had been, then the Latins would not have grown so arrogant [...], nor would the Turks ever have gazed upon the sands of the [Aegean] sea, [...] nor would we have to pay to everyone tribute every year.\" After 1305, bowing to popular pressure and the need to contain the Catalan Company, the Emperor belatedly tried to rebuild the navy of 20 vessels, but although a few ships were built and a small fleet appears to have been active over the next couple of years, it eventually was disbanded again.\n\nIn the 14th century, recurrent civil wars, attacks from Bulgaria and Serbia in the Balkans and the devastation caused by ever-increasing Turkish raids hastened the collapse of the Byzantine state, which would culminate in its final fall to the Ottoman Turks in 1453. Several emperors after Andronikos II also tried to re-build a fleet, especially in order to secure the security and hence the independence of Constantinople itself from the interference of the Italian maritime powers, but their efforts produced only short-term results.\n\nThus Andronikos II's successor Andronikos III Palaiologos (1328–1341), immediately after his accession, with the help of contributions from various magnates, assembled a large fleet of reportedly 105 vessels. This he personally led in the last major foray of a Byzantine navy in the Aegean, recovering Chios and Phocaea from the Genoese and forcing various smaller Latin and Turkish principalities to come to terms with him. His campaigns against the Ottomans in Bithynia were failures, however, and soon the Ottomans had established their first naval base at Trigleia on the Sea of Marmara, from where they raided the coasts of Thrace. To defend against this new threat, towards the end of Andronikos III's reign a fleet of some 70 ships was built at Constantinople to oppose the Turkish raids, and headed by the \"megas doux\" Alexios Apokaukos. This fleet was very active during the civil war of 1341–1347, in which its commander played a prominent role. Following the civil war, Emperor John VI Kantakouzenos (1347–1354) tried to restore the navy and merchant fleet, as a means of both reducing the Empire's economic dependency on the Genoese colony of Galata, which controlled the trade passing through Constantinople, and of securing the control of the Dardanelles against passage by the Turks. To that end, he enlisted the aid of the Venetians, but in March 1349, his newly built fleet of nine warships and about 100 smaller vessels were caught in a storm off the southern shore of Constantinople. The inexperienced crews panicked, and the ships were either sunk or captured by the Genoese. Undeterred, Kantakouzenos launched another effort at building a fleet, which allowed him to re-establish Byzantine authority over Thessalonica and some coastal cities and islands. A core of this fleet was maintained at Constantinople, and although Byzantine ships remained active in the Aegean, and scored some successes over Turkish pirates, they were never able to stop their activities, let alone challenge the Italian navies for supremacy at sea. Lack of funds condemned the fleet to a mere handful of vessels maintained at Constantinople. It is characteristic that in his 1418 pamphlet to the \"despotēs\" Theodore II Palaiologos, the scholar Gemistos Plethon advises against the maintenance of a navy, on the grounds that resources were insufficient to adequately maintain both it and an effective army.\n\nHenceforth, the impoverished Byzantine state became a pawn of the great powers of the day, trying to survive by exploiting their rivalries. Thus, for instance, in 1351, Kantakouzenos was induced to side with Venice in its war with Genoa, but, abandoned by the Venetian admirals, his fleet was easily defeated by the Genoese and he was forced to sign an unfavourable peace. During the brief usurpation of John VII in 1390, Manuel II (1391–1425) was able to gather only five galleys and four smaller vessels (including some from the Hospitallers of Rhodes) to recapture Constantinople and rescue his father John V. Six years later, Manuel promised to arm ten ships to assist the Crusade of Nicopolis; twenty years later, he personally commanded 4 galleys and 2 other vessels carrying some infantry and cavalry, and saved the island of Thasos from an invasion. Byzantine ships were active throughout the Ottoman Interregnum, when Byzantium sided with various rival Ottoman princes in turn. Manuel used his ships to ferry the rival pretenders and their forces across the Straits. With Genoese assistance, Manuel's fleet was also able to muster a fleet of eight galleys and capture Gallipoli in May 1410, albeit for a brief time; and in August 1411, the Byzantine fleet was instrumental in the failure of a siege of Constantinople by the Ottoman prince Musa Çelebi, when it defeated Musa's attempt to blockade the city by sea as well. Likewise, in 1421, 10 Byzantine warships were engaged in support of the Ottoman pretender Mustafa against Sultan Murad II.\n\nThe last recorded Byzantine naval victory occurred in 1427 in a battle off the Echinades Islands, when the Emperor John VIII Palaiologos (1425–1448) defeated the superior fleet of Carlo I Tocco, Count of Cephalonia and Despot of Epirus, forcing him to relinquish all his holdings in the Morea to the Byzantines. The last appearance of the Byzantine navy was in the final Ottoman siege of 1453, when a mixed fleet of Byzantine, Genoese and Venetian ships (varying numbers are provided by the sources, ranging from 10 to 39 vessels) defended Constantinople against the Ottoman fleet. During the siege, on 20 April 1453, the last naval engagement in Byzantine history took place when three Genoese galleys escorting a Byzantine transport fought their way through the huge Ottoman blockade fleet and into the Golden Horn.\n\nVery little is known about the organization of the Roman fleets of late Antiquity, from the gradual break-up of the large provincial fleets into smaller squadrons in the 3rd century to the formation of a new navy at the onset of the Muslim conquests. Despite the evidence of considerable naval activity in this period, earlier scholars believed that the Roman navy had all but vanished by the 4th century, but more recent work has altered this picture towards a transformation into a mainly fluvial and coastal force, designed for close co-operation with the army.\n\nUnder Emperor Diocletian (284–305), the navy's strength reportedly increased from 46,000 men to 64,000 men, a figure that represents the numerical peak of the late Roman navy. The Danube Fleet (\"Classis Histrica\") with its attendant legionary flotillas is still well attested in the \"Notitia Dignitatum\", and its increased activity is commented upon by Vegetius (\"De Re Militari\", IV.46). In the West, several fluvial fleets are mentioned, but the old standing praetorian fleets had all but vanished (\"De Re Militari\", IV.31) and even the remaining western provincial fleets appear to have been seriously understrength and incapable of countering any significant barbarian attack. In the East, the Syrian and Alexandrian fleets are known from legal sources to have still existed in c. 400 (\"Codex Justinianus\", XI.2.4 & XI.13.1), while a fleet is known to have been stationed at Constantinople itself, perhaps created out of the remnants of the praetorian fleets. In 400 it was sufficient to slaughter a large number of Goths who had built rafts and tried to cross the strip of sea that separates Asia from Europe. Its size, however, is unknown, and it does not appear in the \"Notitia\".\n\nFor operations in the Mediterranean during the 5th century, fleets appear to have been assembled on an \"ad hoc\" basis and then disbanded. The first permanent Byzantine fleet can be traced to the early 6th century and the revolt of Vitalian in 513–515, when Anastasius I created a fleet to counter the rebels' own. This fleet was retained and under Justinian I and his successors it was developed into a professional and well-maintained force. Because of the absence of any naval threat, however, the navy of the late 6th century was relatively small, with several small flotillas in the Danube and two main fleets maintained at Ravenna and Constantinople. Additional flotillas must have been stationed at the other great maritime and commercial centres of the Empire: at Alexandria, providing the escort to the annual grain fleet to Constantinople, and at Carthage, controlling the western Mediterranean. Justinian also stationed troops and ships at the more remote outposts of the Empire, at Septem (Ceuta), Cherson in the Crimea, and Aelana (Eilat) in the Gulf of Aqaba. The long-established naval tradition and infrastructure of those areas made the maintenance of the fleet easier, and, in the event of a naval expedition, a large fleet could be quickly and inexpensively assembled by impressing the numerous merchant vessels.\n\nIn response to the Arab conquests during the 7th century, the whole administrative and military system of the Empire was reformed, and the thematic system established. According to this, the Empire was divided into several \"themata\", which were regional civil and military administrations. Under the command of a \"stratēgos\", each \"thema\" maintained its own, locally levied forces. Following a series of revolts by thematic forces, under Constantine V the larger early themes were progressively broken up, while a central imperial army, the \"tagmata\", was created, stationed at or near Constantinople, serving as a central reserve that henceforth formed the core of campaigning armies.\n\nA similar process was followed in the fleet, which was organized along similar lines. In the second half of the 7th century, the fleet of the \"Karabisianoi\" (, \"the Ships' Men\") was created. The exact date is unknown, with suggestions ranging from the 650s/660s, in response to the Battle of the Masts, or following the first Arab siege of Constantinople in 672–678. Its origin is also unknown: it was recruited possibly from the remainders of the old \"quaestura exercitus\", or the army of the Illyricum. It was headed by a \"stratēgos\" (\"stratēgos tōn karabōn/karabisianōn\", \"general of the ships/seafarers\"), and included the southern coast of Asia Minor from Miletus to the frontier with the Caliphate near Seleucia in Cilicia, the Aegean islands and the imperial holdings in southern Greece. Its headquarters was initially perhaps at Samos, with a subordinate command under a \"droungarios\" at Cibyrrha in Pamphylia. As its name suggests, it comprised most of the Empire's standing navy, and faced the principal maritime threat, the Arab fleets of Egypt and Syria.\n\nThe \"Karabisianoi\" however proved inadequate and were replaced in the early 8th century by a more complex system composed of three elements, which with minor alterations survived until the 11th century: a central imperial fleet based at Constantinople, a small number of large regional naval commands, either maritime \"themata\" or independent commands termed \"drungariates\", and a greater number of local squadrons charged with purely defensive and police tasks and subordinate to the local provincial governors. Unlike the earlier Roman navy, where the provincial fleets were decidedly inferior in numbers and included only lighter vessels than the central fleets, the Byzantine regional fleets were probably formidable formations in their own right.\n\nThe capital's navy had played a central role in the repulsion of the Arab sieges of Constantinople, but the exact date of the establishment of the Imperial Fleet (βασιλικὸς στόλος, \"basilikos stolos\", or βασιλικὸν πλόϊμον, \"basilikon ploïmon\") as a distinct command is unclear. The Irish historian J. B. Bury, followed by the French Byzantinist Rodolphe Guilland, considered it \"not improbable\" that the Imperial Fleet existed as a subordinate command under the \"stratēgos tōn karabisianōn\" already in the 7th century. Certainly, the \"droungarios\" of the Imperial Fleet first appears in the \"Taktikon Uspensky\" of c. 842/3; and as there is little evidence for major fleets operating from Constantinople during the 8th century, the Greek Byzantinist Hélène Ahrweiler dated the fleet's creation to the early 9th century. From that point on, the Imperial Fleet formed the main naval reserve force and provided the core of various expeditionary fleets.\nThe first and for a long time only maritime theme (θέμα ναυτικόν, \"thema nautikon\") was the Theme of the Cibyrrhaeots (, \"thema Kibyrrhaiotōn\"). It was created from the \"Karabisianoi\" fleet, and assigned to the administration and defence of the southern coasts of Asia Minor. The exact date of its creation is unclear, with one view proposing c. 719 and another c. 727. Its \"stratēgos\", first mentioned in 734, was based at Attaleia. His principal lieutenants were the \"katepanō\" of the Mardaites, an \"ek prosōpou\" (representative) at Syllaeum and \"droungarioi\" of Attaleia and Kos. Being located closest to the Muslim Levant, it remained the Empire's principal naval fleet for centuries, until it was reduced with the decline of the Arab naval threat. The fleet is last mentioned in 1043, and thereafter the theme became a purely civilian province.\n\nThe Cibyrrhaeots were complemented by two independent naval commands in the Aegean, each headed by a \"droungarios\": the \"Aigaion Pelagos\" (\"Aegean Sea\"), covering the northern half of the Aegean and the Dardanelles and Marmara Sea, and the command variously known as the \"Dodekanesos\" (\"Twelve Islands\") and \"Kolpos\" (\"Gulf\"), which was based at Samos and comprised the southern Aegean including the Cyclades. Unlike the other \"droungarioi\" who headed subordinate commands, these two circumscriptions were completely independent, and their \"droungarioi\" exercised both civil and military authority over them. Eventually, they were raised to full maritime themes, the Theme of the Aegean Sea (, \"thema tou Aigaiou Pelagous\") c. 843, while the eastern parts of the \"Dodekanesos\"/\"Kolpos\" drungariate formed the Theme of Samos (θέμα Σάμου, \"thema Samou\") in the late 9th century. It comprised it the Ionian coast, and its capital was at Smyrna.\n\nSome \"land\" \"themata\" also maintained sizeable squadrons, usually placed under a \"tourmarchēs\" (mentioned collectively as \"tourmarchai tōn ploimatōn\" in the \"Taktikon Uspensky\"). They played an intermediate role between the large thematic fleets and the central Imperial Fleet: they were permanent squadrons with professional crews (\"taxatoi\"), maintained by resources from the imperial treasury and not the province they were stationed in, but subordinate to the local thematic \"stratēgos\" and charged mainly with local defence and police duties. These were:\n\nIsolated regions of particular importance for the control of the major sea-lanes were covered by separate officials with the title of \"archon\", who in some cases may have commanded detachments of the Imperial Fleet. Such \"archontes\" are known for Chios, Malta, the Euboic Gulf, and possibly Vagenetia and \"Bulgaria\" (whose area of control is identified by Ahrweiler with the mouths of the Danube). These vanished by the end of the 9th century, either succumbing to Arab attacks or being reformed or incorporated into themes.\n\nJust as with its land counterpart, the exact size of the Byzantine navy and its units is a matter of considerable debate, owing to the scantness and ambiguous nature of the primary sources. One exceptions are the numbers for the late 9th and early 10th century, for which we possess a more detailed breakdown, dated to the Cretan expedition of 911. These lists reveal that during the reign of Leo VI the Wise, the navy reached 34,200 oarsmen and perhaps as many as 8,000 marines. The central Imperial Fleet totalled some 19,600 oarsmen and 4,000 marines under the command of the \"droungarios\" of the \"basilikon plōimon\". These four thousand marines were professional soldiers, first recruited as a corps by Basil I in the 870s. They were a great asset to the Imperial Fleet, for whereas previously it had depended on thematic and tagmatic soldiers for its marines, the new force provided a more reliable, better trained and immediately available force at the Emperor's disposal. The high status of these marines is illustrated by the fact that they were considered to belong to the imperial \"tagmata\", and were organized along similar lines. The Aegean thematic fleet numbered 2,610 oarsmen and 400 marines, the Cibyrrhaeot fleet stood at 5,710 oarsmen and 1,000 marines, the Samian fleet at 3,980 oarsmen and 600 marines, and finally, the Theme of Hellas furnished 2,300 oarsmen with a portion of its 2,000 thematic soldiers doubling as marines.\n\nThe following table contains estimates, by Warren T. Treadgold, of the number of oarsmen over the entire history of the Byzantine navy:\n\nContrary to popular perception, galley slaves were not used as oarsmen, either by the Byzantines or the Arabs, or by their Roman and Greek predecessors. Throughout the existence of the Empire, Byzantine crews consisted of mostly lower-class freeborn men, who were professional soldiers, legally obliged to perform military service (\"strateia\") in return for pay or land estates. In the first half of the 10th century, the latter were calculated to be of the value of of gold for sailors and marines. Use was however made of prisoners of war and foreigners as well. Alongside the Mardaites, who formed a significant part of the fleet's crews, an enigmatic group known as the \"Toulmatzoi\" (possibly Dalmatians) appears in the Cretan expeditions, as well as many Rus', who were given the right to serve in the Byzantine armed forces in a series of 10th-century treaties.\n\nIn his \"De Ceremoniis\", Constantine Porphyrogennetos gives the fleet lists for the expeditions against Crete of 911 and 949. These references have sparked a considerable debate as to their interpretation: thus the numbers given for the entire Imperial Fleet in 949 can be interpreted as either 100, 150 or 250 ships, depending on the reading of the Greek text. The precise meaning of the term \"ousia\" () is also a subject of confusion: traditionally, it is held to have been a standard complement of 108 men, and that more than one could be present aboard a single ship. In the context of the \"De Ceremoniis\" however, it can also be read simply as \"unit\" or \"ship\". The number of 150 seems more compatible with the numbers recorded elsewhere, and is accepted by most scholars, although they differ as to the composition of the fleet. Makrypoulias interprets the number as 8 \"pamphyloi\", 100 \"ousiakoi\" and 42 \"dromōnes\" proper, the latter including the two imperial vessels and the ten ships of the \"Stenon\" squadron. As for the total size of the Byzantine navy in this period, Warren Treadgold extrapolates a total, including the naval themes, of c. 240 warships, a number which was increased to 307 for the Cretan expedition of 960–961. According to Treadgold, the latter number probably represents the approximate standing strength of the entire Byzantine navy (including the smaller flotillas) in the 9th and 10th centuries. It is however noteworthy that a significant drop in the numbers of ships and men attached to the thematic fleets is evident between 911 and 949. This drop, which reduced the size of thematic fleets from a third to a quarter of the total navy, was partly due to the increased use of the lighter \"ousiakos\" type instead of the heavier \"dromōn\", and partly due to financial and manpower difficulties. It is also indicative of a general trend that would lead to the complete disappearance of the provincial fleets by the late 11th century.\n\nAlthough naval themes were organized much the same way as their land counterparts, there is some confusion in the Byzantine sources as to the exact rank structure. The usual term for admiral was \"stratēgos\", the same term used for the generals that governed the land \"themata\". Under the \"stratēgos\" were two or three \"tourmarchai\" (sing. \"tourmarches\", effectively \"Vice Admiral\"), in turn overseeing a number of \"droungarioi\" (sing. \"droungarios\", corresponding to \"Rear Admiral\"). Until the mid-9th century, the governors of the themes of the Aegean and Samos are also recorded as \"droungarioi\", since their commands were split off from the original \"Karabisianoi\" fleet, but they were then raised to the rank of \"stratēgos\". As the thematic admirals also doubled as governors of their themes, they were assisted by a \"prōtonotarios\" (\"chief secretary/notary\") who headed the civilian administration of the theme. Further staff officers were the \"chartoularios\" in charge of the fleet administration, the \"prōtomandatōr\" (\"chief messenger\"), who acted as chief of staff, and a number of staff \"komētes\" (\"counts\", sing. \"komēs\"), including a \"komēs tēs hetaireias\", who commanded the bodyguard (\"hetaireia\") of the admiral.\nThe Imperial Fleet was a different case, as it was not tied to the thematic administration, but was considered as one of the \"tagmata\", the professional central reserve forces. Consequently, the commander of the Imperial Fleet remained known as the \"droungarios tou basilikou ploïmou\" (later with the prefix \"megas\", \"grand\"). Originally very lowly ranked, the office rose quickly in the hierarchy: by 899 he was placed immediately before or after the \"logothetēs tou dromou\" and ahead of various senior military and civil officials. He was also notable in not being classed with the other military commanders, whether of the themes or of the \"tagmata\", but in the special class of military officials, the \"stratarchai\", where he is listed second after the \"hetaireiarchēs\", the commander of the imperial bodyguard. His title is still found in the Komnenian era, albeit as commander of the imperial escort squadron, and survived until the Palaiologan era, being listed in the 14th-century \"Book of Offices\" of Pseudo-Kodinos. The office of a deputy called \"topotērētēs\" is also mentioned for the Imperial Fleet, but his role is unclear from the sources. He may have held a post similar to that of a Port Admiral. Although some of these senior officers were professional seamen, having risen from the ranks, most fleet commanders were high court officials, who would have relied on their more experienced professional subordinates for nautical expertise.\n\nIn the lower levels of organization, there was more uniformity: squadrons of three or five ships were commanded by a \"komēs\" or \"droungarokomēs\", and each ship's captain was called \"kentarchos\" (\"centurion\"), although literary sources also used more archaic terms like \"nauarchos\" or even \"triērarchos\". Each ship's crew, depending on its size, was composed of one to three \"ousiai\". Under the captain, there was the \"bandophoros\" (\"banner bearer\"), who acted as executive officer, two \"prōtokaraboi\" (sing. \"prōtokarabos\", \"head of the ship\"), sometimes also referred to archaically as \"kybernētes\", and a bow officer, the \"prōreus\". The \"prōtokaraboi\" were helmsmen, in charge of the steering oars in the stern, as well as of the rowers on either side of the ship. The senior of the two was the \"first \"prōtokarabos\" (\"prōtos prōtokarabos\"). In actual terms, there probably were several of each kind upon each ship, working in shifts. Most of these officers rose from the ranks, and there are references in the \"De Administrando Imperio\" to first oarsmen (\"prōtelatai\") who rose to become \"prōtokaraboi\" in the imperial barges, and later assumed still higher offices; Emperor Romanos Lekapenos being the most successful example. There were also a number of specialists on board, such as the two bow oarsmen and the \"siphōnatores\", who worked the siphons used for discharging the Greek fire. A \"boukinatōr\" (\"trumpeter\") is also recorded in the sources, who conveyed orders to the rowers (\"kōpēlatai\" or \"elatai\"). Since the marine infantry were organized as regular army units, their ranks followed those of the army.\n\nAfter the decline of the navy in the 11th century, Alexios I rebuilt it on different lines. Since the thematic fleets had all but vanished, their remnants were amalgamated into a unified imperial fleet, under the new office of the \"megas doux\". The first known occupant of the office was Alexios' brother-in-law John Doukas, in c. 1092. The \"megas droungarios\" of the fleet, once the overall naval commander, was subordinated to him, acting now as his principal aide. The \"megas doux\" was also appointed as overall governor of southern Greece, the old \"themata\" of Hellas and the Peloponnese, which were divided into districts (\"oria\") that supplied the fleet. Under John II, the Aegean islands also became responsible for the maintenance, crewing and provision of warships, and contemporary sources took pride in the fact that the great fleets of Manuel's reign were crewed by \"native Romans\", although use continued to be made of mercenaries and allied squadrons. However, the fact that the fleet was now exclusively built and based around Constantinople, and that provincial fleets were not reconstituted, did have its drawbacks, as outlying areas, in particular Greece, were left vulnerable to attack.\n\nWith the decline of the Byzantine fleet in the latter 12th century, the Empire increasingly relied on the fleets of Venice and Genoa. Following the sack of 1204 however, sources suggest the presence of a relatively strong fleet already under the first Nicaean emperor, Theodore I Laskaris, although specific details are lacking. Under John III and Theodore II (1254–1258), the navy had two main strategic areas of operations: the Aegean, entailing operations against the Greek islands (chiefly Rhodes) as well as the transport and supply of armies fighting in the Balkans, and the Sea of Marmara, where the Nicaeans aimed to interdict Latin shipping and threaten Constantinople. Smyrna provided the main shipyard and base for the Aegean, with a secondary one at Stadeia, while the main base for operations in the Marmara Sea was Holkos, near Lampsakos across the Gallipoli peninsula.\n\nDespite their efforts, the Nicaean emperors failed to successfully challenge the Venetian domination of the seas, and were forced to turn to the Genoese for aid. After regaining Constantinople in 1261 however, Michael VIII initiated a great effort to lessen this dependence by building a \"national\" navy, forming a number of new corps to this purpose: the \"Gasmouloi\" (), who were men of mixed Greek-Latin descent living around the capital; and men from Laconia, called \"Lakōnes\" (Λάκωνες, \"Laconians\") or \"Tzakōnes\" (Τζάκωνες), were used as marines, forming the bulk of Byzantine naval manpower in the 1260s and 1270s. Michael also set the rowers, called \"Prosalentai\" (Προσαλενταί) or \"Proselōntes\" (Προσελῶντες), apart as a separate corps. All these groups received small grants of land to cultivate in exchange for their service, and were settled together in small colonies. The \"Prosalentai\" were settled near the sea throughout the northern Aegean, while the \"Gasmouloi\" and \"Tzakōnes\" were settled mostly around Constantinople and in Thrace. These corps remained extant, albeit in a diminished form, throughout the last centuries of the Empire; indeed the \"Gasmouloi\" of Gallipoli formed the bulk of the crews of the first Ottoman fleets. Throughout the Palaiologan period, the fleet's main base was the harbour of Kontoskalion on the Marmara shore of Constantinople, dredged and refortified by Michael VIII. Among the provincial naval centres, probably the most important was Monemvasia in the Peloponnese.\n\nAt the same time, Michael and his successors continued the well-established practice of using foreigners in the fleet. Alongside the mistrusted Italian city-states, with whom alliances shifted regularly, mercenaries were increasingly employed in the last centuries of the Empire, often rewarded for their services with fiefs. Most of these mercenaries, like Giovanni de lo Cavo (lord of Anafi and Rhodes), Andrea Morisco (successor of de lo Cavo in Rhodes) and Benedetto Zaccaria (lord of Chios and Phocaea), were Genoese, the Byzantines' major ally in the period. Under Michael VIII, for the first time a foreigner, the Italian privateer Licario, became \"megas doux\" and was given Euboea as a fief. In 1303, another high rank, that of \"amēralēs\" ( or ) was introduced. The term had already entered Byzantine usage through contact with the Kingdom of Naples and other Western nations, but was rarely used; it was adopted as part of the imperial hierarchy, coming after the \"megas doux\" and the \"megas droungarios\", with the arrival of the mercenaries of the Catalan Company. Only two holders are known, Ferran d'Aunés and Andrea Morisco, both from 1303–1305, although the rank continued to be mentioned in various lists of offices long after that. Thus, according to the mid-14th century \"Book of Offices\", the subordinates of the \"megas doux\" were the \"megas droungarios tou stolou\", the \"amēralios\", the \"prōtokomēs\", the junior \"droungarioi\", and the junior \"komētes\". Pseudo-Kodinos also records that, while the other warships flew \"the usual imperial flag\" (βασιλικὸν φλάμουλον, \"basilikon phlamoulon\") of the cross and the firesteels, the \"megas doux\" flew an image of the emperor on horseback as his distinctive ensign.\n\nThe primary warship of the Byzantine navy until the 12th century was the dromon (δρόμων) and other similar ship types. Apparently an evolution of the light liburnian galleys of the imperial Roman fleets, the term first appears in the late 5th century, and was commonly used for a specific kind of war-galley by the 6th. The term \"dromōn\" itself comes from the Greek root δρομ-(άω), \"to run\", thus meaning \"runner\", and 6th-century authors like Procopius are explicit in their references to the speed of these vessels. During the next few centuries, as the naval struggle with the Arabs intensified, heavier versions with two or possibly even three banks of oars evolved. Eventually, the term was used in the general sense of \"warship\", and was often used interchangeably with another Byzantine term for a large warship, \"chelandion\" (χελάνδιον, from the Greek word \"kelēs\", \"courser\"), which first appeared during the 8th century.\n\nThe appearance and evolution of medieval warships is a matter of debate and conjecture: until recently, no remains of an oared warship from either ancient or early medieval times had been found, and information had to be gathered by analyzing literary evidence, crude artistic depictions and the remains of a few merchant vessels. Only in 2005–2006 did archaeological digs for the Marmaray project in the location of the Harbour of Theodosius (modern Yenikapi) uncover the remains of over 36 Byzantine ships from the 6th to 10th centuries, including four light galleys of the \"galea\" type.\n\nThe accepted view is that the main developments which differentiated the early dromons from the liburnians, and that henceforth characterized Mediterranean galleys, were the adoption of a full deck (\"katastrōma\"), the abandonment of the rams on the bow in favour of an above-water spur, and the gradual introduction of lateen sails. The exact reasons for the abandonment of the ram (; , \"embolos\") are unclear. Depictions of upward-pointing beaks in the 4th-century \"Vatican Vergil\" manuscript may well illustrate that the ram had already been replaced by a spur in late Roman galleys. One possibility is that the change occurred because of the gradual evolution of the ancient shell-first mortise and tenon hull construction method, against which rams had been designed, into the skeleton-first method, which produced a stronger and more flexible hull, less susceptible to ram attacks. Certainly by the early 7th century, the ram's original function had been forgotten, if we judge by Isidore of Seville's comments that they were used to protect against collision with underwater rocks. As for the lateen sail, various authors have in the past suggested that it was introduced into the Mediterranean by the Arabs, possibly with an ultimate origin in India. However, the discovery of new depictions and literary references in recent decades has led scholars to antedate the appearance of the lateen sail in the Levant to the late Hellenistic or early Roman period. Not only the triangular, but also the quadrilateral version were known, used for centuries (mostly on smaller craft) in parallel with square sails. Belisarius' invasion fleet of 533 was apparently at least partly fitted with lateen sails, making it probable that by the time the lateen had become the standard rig for the dromon, with the traditional square sail gradually falling from use in medieval navigation.\n\nThe dromons that Procopius describes were single-banked ships of probably 50 oars, arranged with 25 oars on each side. Again unlike Hellenistic vessels, which used an outrigger (\"parexeiresia\"), these extended directly from the hull. In the later bireme dromons of the 9th and 10th centuries, the two oar banks (\"elasiai\") were divided by the deck, with the first oar bank was situated below, whilst the second oar bank was situated above deck; these rowers were expected to fight alongside the marines in boarding operations. Makrypoulias suggests 25 oarsmen beneath and 35 on the deck on either side for a dromon of 120 rowers. The overall length of these ships was probably about 32 meters. Although most contemporary vessels had a single mast (\"histos\" or \"katartion\"), the larger bireme dromons probably needed at least two masts in order to manoeuvre effectively, assuming that a single lateen sail for a ship this size would have reached unmanageable dimensions. The ship was steered by means of two quarter rudders at the stern (\"prymnē\"), which also housed a tent (\"skēnē\") that covered the captain's berth (\"krab(b)at(t)os\"). The prow (\"prōra\") featured an elevated forecastle (\"pseudopation\"), below which the siphon for the discharge of Greek fire projected, although secondary siphons could also be carried amidships on either side. A pavesade (\"kastellōma\"), on which marines could hang their shields, ran around the sides of the ship, providing protection to the deck crew. Larger ships also had wooden castles (\"xylokastra\") on either side between the masts, similar to those attested for the Roman liburnians, providing archers with elevated firing platforms. The bow spur (\"peronion\") was intended to ride over an enemy ship's oars, breaking them and rendering it helpless against missile fire and boarding actions.\n\nThe four \"galeai\" ships uncovered in the Yenikapi excavations, dating to the 10th–11th centuries, are of uniform design and construction, suggesting a centralized manufacturing process. They have a length of c. 30 m, and are built of European Black Pine and Oriental plane.\n\nBy the 10th century, there were three main classes of bireme (two oar-banks) warships of the general dromon type, as detailed in the inventories for the Cretan expeditions of 911 and 949: the \"[chelandion] ousiakon\" (), so named because it was manned by an \"ousia\" of 108; the \"[chelandion] pamphylon\" ([χελάνδιον] πάμφυλον), crewed with up to 120–160 men, its name either implying an origin in the region of Pamphylia as a transport ship or its crewing with \"picked crews\" (from , \"all tribes\"); and the \"dromōn\" proper, crewed by two \"ousiai\". In the \"De Ceremoniis\", the heavy \"dromōn\" is said to have an even larger crew of 230 rowers and 70 marines; naval historian John H. Pryor considers them as supernumerary crews being carried aboard, while the Greek scholar Christos Makrypoulias suggests that the extra men correspond to a second rower on each of the upper-bank oars. A smaller, single-bank ship, the \"monērēs\" (μονήρης, \"single-banked\") or \"galea\" (γαλέα, from which the term \"galley\" derives), with c. 60 men as crew, was used for scouting missions but also in the wings of the battle line. The \"galea\" in particular seems to have been strongly associated with the Mardaites, and Christos Makrypoulias even suggests that the ship was exclusively used by them. Three-banked (\"trireme\") dromons are described in a 9th-century work dedicated to the \"parakoimōmenos\" Basil Lekapenos. However, this treatise, which survives only in fragments, draws heavily upon references on the appearance and construction of a Classical trireme, and must therefore be used with care when trying to apply it to the warships of the middle Byzantine period. The existence of trireme vessels is, however, attested in the Fatimid navy in the 11th and 12th centuries, and references made by Leo VI to large Arab ships in the 10th century may also indicate trireme galleys.\n\nFor cargo transport, the Byzantines usually commandeered ordinary merchantmen as transport ships (\"phortēgoi\") or supply ships (\"skeuophora\"). These appear to have been mostly sailing vessels, rather than oared. The Byzantines and Arabs also employed horse-transports (\"hippagōga\"), which were either sailing ships or galleys, the latter certainly modified to accommodate the horses. Given that the \"chelandia\" appear originally to have been oared horse-transports, this would imply differences in construction between the \"chelandion\" and the \"dromōn\" proper, terms which otherwise are often used indiscriminately in literary sources. While the \"dromōn\" was developed exclusively as a war galley, the \"chelandion\" would have had to have a special compartment amidships to accommodate a row of horses, increasing its beam and hold depth. In addition, Byzantine sources refer to the \"sandalos\" or \"sandalion\" (σάνδαλος, σανδάλιον), which was a boat carried along by the bigger ships. The kind described in the \"De Ceremoniis\" had a single mast, four oars and a rudder.\n\nThe exact period when the dromon was superseded by \"galea\"-derived ships of Italian origin is uncertain. The term continued in use until the late 12th century, although Byzantine writers were indiscriminate in their use of it. Contemporary Western writers used the term to denote large ships, usually transports, and there is evidence to support the idea that this usage had also spread to the Byzantines. William of Tyre's description of the Byzantine fleet in 1169, where \"dromons\" are classed as very large transports, and the warships with two oar banks are set apart from them, may thus indeed indicate the adoption of the new bireme galley types by the Byzantines. From the 13th century on, the term \"dromon\" fell into gradual disuse and was replaced by \"katergon\" (κάτεργον, meaning \"detailed to/owing a service\"), a late-11th century term which originally applied to the crews, who were drawn from populations detailed to military service. During the latter period of the Byzantine Empire, Byzantine ships were based on Western models: the term \"katergon\" is used indiscriminately for both Byzantine and Latin ships, and the horse-carrying \"chelandion\" was replaced by the Western \"taride\" (itself deriving from Arabic \"ṭarrīda\", adopted as \"tareta\", ταρέτα, in Greek). A similar process is seen in surviving sources from Angevin Sicily, where the term \"chelandre\" was replaced by the \"taride\", although for a time both continued to be used. No construction differences are mentioned between the two, with both terms referring to horse-carrying vessels (\"usserii\") capable of carrying from 20 to 40 horses.\n\nThe bireme Italian-style galleys remained the mainstay of Mediterranean fleets until the late 13th century, although again, contemporary descriptions provide little detail on their construction. From that point on, the galleys universally became trireme ships, i.e. with three men on a single bank located above deck, each rowing a different oar; the so-called \"alla sensile\" system. The Venetians also developed the so-called \"great galley\", which was an enlarged galley capable of carrying more cargo for trade.\n\nLittle is known on particular Byzantine ships during the period. The accounts of the 1437 journey by sea of the Byzantine delegation to the Council of Florence, by the Byzantine cleric Sylvester Syropoulos and the Greek-Venetian captain Michael of Rhodes, mention that most of the ships were Venetian or Papal, but also record that Emperor John VIII travelled on an \"imperial ship\". It is unclear whether that ship was Byzantine or had been hired, and its type is not mentioned. It is, however, recorded as having been faster than the Venetian great merchant galleys accompanying it, possibly indicating that it was a light war galley. Michael of Rhodes also wrote a treatise on shipbuilding, which provided construction instructions and illustrations of the main vessels, both galleys and sailing ships, used by Venice and the other maritime states of the region in the first half of the 15th century.\n\nThe Byzantines took care to codify, preserve and pass on the lessons of warfare at land and sea from past experience, through the use of military manuals. Despite their sometimes antiquarian terminology, these texts form the basis of our knowledge on Byzantine naval affairs. The main surviving texts are the chapters on sea combat (\"peri naumachias\") in the \"Tactica\" of Leo the Wise and Nikephoros Ouranos (both drawing extensively from the \"Naumachiai\" of Syrianos Magistros and other earlier works), complemented by relevant passages in the \"De Administrando Imperio\" of Constantine Porphyrogennetos and other works by Byzantine and Arab writers.\n\nWhen examining ancient and medieval naval operations, it is necessary to first understand the technological limitations of galley fleets. Galleys did not handle well in rough waters and could be swamped by waves, which would be catastrophic in the open sea; history is replete with instances where galley fleets were sunk by bad weather (e.g. the Roman losses during the First Punic War). The sailing season was therefore usually restricted from mid-spring to September. The maintainable cruising speed of a galley, even when using sails, was limited, as were the amount of supplies it could carry. Water in particular, being essentially a galley's \"fuel\" supply, was of critical importance. With consumption levels estimated at 8 litres a day for every oarsman, its availability was a decisive operational factor in the often water-scarce and sun-baked coasts of the Eastern Mediterranean. Smaller dromons are estimated to have been able to carry about 4 days' worth of water. Effectively, this meant that fleets composed of galleys were confined to coastal routes, and had to make frequent landfall to replenish their supplies and rest their crews. This is well attested in Byzantine overseas endeavours, from Belisarius' campaign against the Vandals to the Cretan expeditions of the 9th and 10th centuries. It is for these reasons that Nikephoros Ouranos emphasizes the need to have available \"men with accurate knowledge and experience of the sea [...], which winds cause it to swell and which blow from the land. They should know both the hidden rocks in the sea, and the places which have no depth, and the land along which one sails and the islands adjacent to it, the harbours and the distance such harbours are the one from the other. They should know both the countries and the water supplies.\"\n\nMedieval Mediterranean naval warfare was therefore essentially coastal and amphibious in nature, carried out to seize coastal territory or islands, and not to exercise \"sea control\" as it is understood today. Furthermore, following the abandonment of the ram, the only truly \"ship-killing\" weapon available prior to the advent of gunpowder and explosive shells, sea combat became, in the words of John Pryor, \"more unpredictable. No longer could any power hope to have such an advantage in weaponry or the skill of crews that success could be expected.\" It is no surprise therefore that the Byzantine and Arab manuals emphasize cautious tactics, with the priority given to the preservation of one's own fleet, and the acquisition of accurate intelligence, often through the use of spies posing as merchants. Emphasis was placed on achieving tactical surprise and, conversely, on avoiding being caught unprepared by the enemy. Ideally, battle was to be given only when assured of superiority by virtue of numbers or tactical disposition. Importance is also laid on matching one's forces and tactics to the prospective enemy: Leo VI, for instance, contrasted (\"Tactica\", XIX.74–77) the Arabs with their heavy and slow ships (\"koumbaria\"), to the small and fast craft (\"akatia\", chiefly monoxyla), of the Slavs and Rus'.\n\nOn campaign, following the assembly of the various squadrons at fortified bases (\"aplēkta\") along the coast, the fleet consisted of the main body, composed of the oared warships, and the baggage train (\"touldon\") of sailing vessels and oared transports, which would be sent away in the event of battle. The battle fleet was divided into squadrons, and orders were transmitted from ship to ship through signal flags (\"kamelaukia\") and lanterns.\n\nOn the approach to and during an actual battle, a well-ordered formation was critical: if a fleet fell into disorder, its ships would be unable to lend support to each other and probably would be defeated. Fleets that failed to keep an ordered formation or that could not order themselves into an appropriate counter-formation (\"antiparataxis\") to match that of the enemy, often avoided, or broke off from battle. Tactical manoeuvres were therefore intended to disrupt the enemy formation, including the use of various stratagems, such as dividing one's force and carrying out flanking manoeuvres, feigning retreat or hiding a reserve in ambush (\"Tactica\", XIX.52–56). Indeed, Leo VI openly advised (\"Tactica\", XIX.36) against direct confrontation and advocates the use of stratagems instead. According to Leo VI (\"Tactica\", XIX.52), a crescent formation seems to have been the norm, with the flagship in the centre and the heavier ships at the horns of the formation, in order to turn the enemy's flanks. A range of variants and other tactics and counter-tactics was available, depending on the circumstances.\n\nOnce the fleets were close enough, exchanges of missiles began, ranging from combustible projectiles to arrows and javelins. The aim was not to sink ships, but to deplete the ranks of the enemy crews before the boarding actions, which decided the outcome. Once the enemy strength was judged to have been reduced sufficiently, the fleets closed in, the ships grappled each other, and the marines and upper bank oarsmen boarded the enemy vessel and engaged in hand-to-hand combat.\n\nUnlike the warships of Antiquity, Byzantine and Arab ships did not feature rams, and the primary means of ship-to-ship combat were boarding actions and missile fire, as well as the use of inflammable materials such as Greek fire. Despite the fearsome reputation of the latter, it was only effective under certain circumstances, and not the decisive anti-ship weapon that the ram had been in the hands of experienced crews.\n\nLike their Roman predecessors, Byzantine and Muslim ships were equipped with small catapults (\"mangana\") and ballistae (\"toxoballistrai\") that launched stones, arrows, javelins, pots of Greek fire or other incendiary liquids, caltrops (\"triboloi\") and even containers full of lime to choke the enemy or, as Emperor Leo VI somewhat implausibly suggests, scorpions and snakes (\"Tactica\", XIX.61–65). Marines and the upper-bank oarsmen were heavily armoured in preparation for battle (Leo referred to them as \"cataphracts\") and armed with close-combat arms such as lances and swords, while the other sailors wore padded felt jackets (\"neurika\") for protection and fought with bows and crossbows. The importance and volume of missile fire during sea combat can be gauged from the fleet manifests for the Cretan expeditions of the 10th century, which mention 10,000 caltrops, 50 bows and 10,000 arrows, 20 hand-carried \"ballistrai\" with 200 bolts called \"myai\" (\"flies\") and 100 javelins per dromon.\n\nFrom the 12th century on, the crossbow (called , \"tzangra\" in Greek) became increasingly important in Mediterranean warfare, remaining the most deadly weapon available until the advent of fully rigged ships with gunpowder artillery. The Byzantines made infrequent use of the weapon, chiefly in sieges, although its use is recorded in some sea battles. Cannons were introduced in the latter half of the 14th century, but they were rarely used by the Byzantines, who only had a few artillery pieces for the defence of the land walls of Constantinople. Unlike the Venetians and Genoese, there is no indication that the Byzantines ever mounted any on ships.\n\n\"Greek fire\" was the name given by Western Europeans to the flammable concoction used by the Byzantines, so called because the Europeans viewed the Byzantines as Greeks. The Byzantines themselves used various descriptive names for it, but the most common was \"liquid fire\" (). Although the use of incendiary chemicals by the Byzantines has been attested to since the early 6th century, the actual substance known as Greek fire is believed to have been created in 673 and is attributed to an engineer from Syria, named Kallinikos. The most common method of deployment was to emit the formula through a large bronze tube (\"siphōn\") onto enemy ships. Alternatively, it could be launched in jars fired from catapults; pivoting cranes (\"gerania\") are also mentioned as a method of pouring combustibles onto enemy ships. Usually the mixture would be stored in heated, pressurized barrels and projected through the tube by some sort of pump while the operators were sheltered behind large iron shields. A portable version (\"cheirosiphōn\") also existed, reputedly invented by Leo VI, making it the direct analogue to a modern flamethrower. The means of its production was kept a state secret, and its components are only roughly guessed or described through secondary sources like Anna Komnene, so that its exact composition remains to this day unknown. In its effect, the Greek fire must have been rather similar to napalm. Contemporary sources make clear that it could not be extinguished by water, but rather floated and burned on top of it; sand could extinguish it by depriving it of oxygen, and several authors also mention strong vinegar and old urine as being able to extinguish it, presumably by some sort of chemical reaction. Consequently, felt or hides soaked in vinegar were used to provide protection against it.\n\nDespite the somewhat exaggerated accounts of Byzantine writers, it was by no means a \"wonder weapon\", and did not avert some serious defeats. Given its limited range, and the need for a calm sea and favourable wind conditions, its usability was limited. Nevertheless, in favourable circumstances and against an unprepared enemy, its great destructive ability and psychological impact could prove decisive, as displayed repeatedly against the Rus'. Greek fire continued to be mentioned during the 12th century, but the Byzantines failed to use it against the Fourth Crusade, possibly because they had lost access to the areas (the Caucasus and the eastern coast of the Black Sea) where the primary ingredients were to be found. The Arabs fielded their own \"liquid fire\" after 835, but it is unknown if they used the Byzantine formula, possibly obtained through espionage or through the defection of \"stratēgos\" Euphemios in 827, or whether they independently created a version of their own. A 12th-century treatise prepared by Mardi bin Ali al-Tarsusi for Saladin records a version of Greek fire, called \"naft\" (from naphtha), which had a petroleum base, with sulphur and various resins added.\n\nIt is not easy to assess the importance of the Byzantine navy to the Empire's history. On one hand, the Empire, throughout its life, had to defend a long coastline, often with little hinterland. In addition, shipping was always the quickest and cheapest way of transport, and the Empire's major urban and commercial centres, as well as most of its fertile areas, lay close to the sea. Coupled with the threat posed by the Arabs in the 7th to 10th centuries, this necessitated the maintenance of a strong fleet. The navy was perhaps at its most significant in the successful defence of Constantinople from the two Arab sieges, which ultimately saved the Empire. Throughout the period however, naval operations were an essential part of the Byzantine effort against the Arabs in a game of raids and counter-raids that continued up to the late 10th century.\n\nOn the other hand, the nature and limitations of the maritime technology of the age meant that the neither the Byzantines nor any of their opponents could develop a true thalassocracy. Galley fleets were confined to coastal operations, and were not able to play a truly independent role. Furthermore, as the alternation of Byzantine victories and defeats against the Arabs illustrates, no side was able to permanently gain the upper hand. Although the Byzantines pulled off a number of spectacular successes, such as Nasar's remarkable night-time victory in 880 (one of a handful of similar engagements in the Middle Ages), these victories were balanced off by similarly disastrous losses. Reports of mutinies by oarsmen in Byzantine fleets also reveal that conditions were often far from the ideal prescribed in the manuals. Combined with the traditional predominance of the great Anatolian land-holders in the higher military and civil offices, all this meant that, as in the Roman Empire, the navy, even at its height, was still regarded largely as an adjunct to the land forces. This fact is clearly illustrated by the relatively lowly positions its admirals held in the imperial hierarchy.\n\nIt is clear nevertheless that the gradual decline of the indigenous Byzantine naval power in the 10th and 11th centuries, when it was eclipsed by the Italian city-states, chiefly Venice and later Genoa, was of great long-term significance for the fate of the Empire. The sack of the Fourth Crusade, which shattered the foundations of the Byzantine state, was due in large part to the absolute defencelessness of the Empire at sea. This process was initiated by Byzantium itself in the 9th century, when the Italians were increasingly employed by the Empire to compensate for its own naval weakness in the West. The Italian republics also profited from their role as intermediaries in the trade between the Empire and Western Europe, marginalizing the Byzantine merchant marine, which in turn had adverse effects on the availability of Byzantine naval forces. Inevitably however, as the Italian republics slowly moved away from the Byzantine orbit, they began pursuing their own policies, and from the late 11th century on, they turned from protection of the Empire to exploitation and sometimes outright plunder, heralding the eventual financial and political subjugation of Byzantium to their interests. The absence of a strong navy was certainly keenly felt by the Byzantines at the time, as the comments of Kekaumenos illustrate. Strong and energetic emperors like Manuel Komnenos, and later Michael VIII Palaiologos, could revive Byzantine naval power, but even after landing heavy strokes against the Venetians, they merely replaced them with the Genoese and the Pisans. Trade thus remained in Latin hands, its profits continued to be siphoned off from the Empire, and after their deaths, their achievements quickly evaporated. After 1204, and with the brief exception of Michael VIII's reign, the fortunes of the now small Byzantine navy were more or less tied to the shifting alliances with the Italian maritime republics.\n\nWhen viewing the entire course of Byzantine history, the waxing and waning of the navy's strength closely mirrors the fluctuation of the Empire's fortunes. It is this apparent interrelation that led the French Byzantinist Louis Bréhier to remark: \"The epochs of [Byzantium's] dominion are those in which it held control of the sea, and it was when it lost it, that its reverses began.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2134889", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2134889", "title": "Plaza de Colón", "text": "Plaza de Colón\n\nPlaza de Colón (\"Columbus Square\", in English) is located in the encounter of Chamberí, Centro and Salamanca districts of Madrid, Spain. This plaza and its fountain commemorate the explorer Christopher Columbus, whose name in Spanish was Cristóbal Colón.\n\nThe plaza, originally called Plaza de Santiago (\"St. James Square\"), was renamed Plaza de Colón in 1893 to honor Christopher Columbus. The square contains two monuments.\n\nOn the Paseo de la Castellana (\"Promenade of the Castilian\") side there is a monument to Columbus built in 1885. This is a statue of Columbus standing at the pinnacle of a tall column.\n\nThe second monument on the Serrano Street. side consists of concrete macro-sculptures by Joaquín Vaquero Turcios. The concrete blocks are decorated with inscriptions by philosophers and indigenous leaders.\n\nSince Spain's National Day in 2001, the world's largest Spanish flag—14m x 21m (46 x 69 ft)—294 square meters (3164 square feet)—has flown from a flagpole in Plaza de Colón that is 50 m (164 ft) high.\n\nThe flag originally cost €378,000. It was replaced in January, 2016 at a cost of €400,000.\n\nThe gardens in the plaza are known as the Jardines del Descubrimiento (\"Gardens of Discovery\"), where the Royal Mint was located until 1970.\n\nAt the base of the Columbus monument is a large fountain with a broad cascade of water. There are steps leading under the cascade and beneath the plaza, where the roar of the fountain is amplified. Under the plaza along with the \"Centro Cultural de la Villa de Madrid\" (Madrid City Cultural Centre) lies a stop for a special shuttle that takes passengers to Barajas Airport.\n\nAt the other side of the Plaza are the twin Torres de Colón. The Platea Madrid gourmet food hall is located on the square at Calle de Goya 5–7.\n\n \n"}
{"id": "2134894", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2134894", "title": "Elbhangfest", "text": "Elbhangfest\n\nThe Elbhangfest is a street festival held in Dresden, Germany on the last weekend of June each year since 1990, focusing on the unique culture and built landscape of the hillsides on the banks of the Elbe river.\n\nThe area between a bridge in Loschwitz called 'Blaues Wunder' (Blue Wonder) and Pillnitz Castle is the site for a street festival where a variety of performers come together to entertain the crowds of locals and visitors.\n\n"}
{"id": "2134920", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2134920", "title": "Guangzhou R&amp;F F.C.", "text": "Guangzhou R&amp;F F.C.\n\nGuangzhou R&F Football Club is a professional football club that plays in the Chinese Super League under licence from the Chinese Football Association (CFA). The team is based in Guangzhou, Guangdong, and their home stadium is the Yuexiushan Stadium which has a seating capacity of 18,000. They are owned by the Chinese property developers R&F Properties who took charge in June 2011. The club's English name R&F is short for \"Rich\" (富) and \"Force\" (力).\n\nThe club was founded in 1986 in Shenyang as Shenyang Football Team. They played at the 55,000-seat Wulihe Stadium (五里河体育场), until they moved to Changsha in 2007 to reside in the Helong Stadium. American sportswear and sports equipment company MAZAMBA took over the club in 2010, and relocated the club to Shenzhen in February 2011. Their ownership was brief, and by June 2011 Chinese property developers Guangzhou R&F gained ownership of the club and moved them to Guangzhou. The club had their most successful season in 2014 as they finished third in the league and qualified for the 2015 AFC Champions League.\n\nThe club was founded in 1986 by the local Shenyang government sports body to take part in the Chinese football league system. The club was named \"Shenyang\" (沈阳). The team started at the bottom of the league system by playing in the second division. They were promoted to the 1988 Chinese Jia-A League quickly after the league expanded and Liaoning FC was ineligible to field their reserve team in the same division. The club was relegated after only one season. With the following campaigns the club mostly remained within the second tier, except for a short foray in the 1992 Chinese Jia-A League campaign; however, again they were relegated after only one season.\n\nBy the 1994 league season the entire Chinese football league system had become professional. The team were allowed to gather sponsorship and rename themselves Shenyang Liuyao (沈阳东北六药), and were allowed to join the top tier due to their 1992 membership. When the team were relegated again at the end of the season they rename themselves Shenyang Huayang (沈阳华阳) and then Shenyang Sealion (沈阳海狮) in 1996. Again the club won promotion to the top tier; however, unlike before they were able to avoid relegation. This was to be the beginning of the club's establishment within the league, though the team benefitted from several seasons where there was no relegation while the league expanded. In 2001 the club was taken over by Ginde Plastic Pipe Industry Group, a subsidiary of the Hongyuan Group and changed its name to Shenyang Ginde (沈阳金德). In 2007 the club's homeground Wulihe Stadium (五里河体育场) was demolished. While it was expected that the club move to another stadium within Shenyang, especially the Shenyang Olympic Sports Center Stadium, a deal did not go through and the club moved to Changsha in Hunan and changed their name to Changsha Ginde (长沙金德).\n\nAfter Changsha Ginde were relegated to League One at the end of the 2010 league season, the club was purchased by MAZAMBA and moved into the Shenzhen Stadium in the city of Shenzhen, Guangdong in February 2011. To represent this change the owners changed the club's name to Shenzhen Phoenix and changed the home kit from sky blue to green. By May 2011 the club was exposed as having serious financial problems and were struggling to pay their players and their hotel accommodation.\n\nIn serious doubt of completing the 2011 season, Shenzhen Phoenix was put up for sale. The club was bought by Chinese property developers Guangzhou R&F who moved the club to the Yuexiushan Stadium in Guangzhou and changed the club's colours back to blue. Under the new ownership results significantly improved and the club gained promotion back into the top tier at the end of the 2011 China League One season. The team finished the league in seventh, and the club's owners decided to commit their long-term future to the club by establishing a football school in Meizhou. The start of the 2013 Chinese Super League season, however, the club struggled in the league and the manager Sérgio Farias was fired. Former England manager Sven-Göran Eriksson was appointed to replace him on June 4, 2013, and given a 19-month contract. Eriksson's first full season would see the club finish third, its highest league finish, and qualify for the Asian Champions League for the first time. Moroccan striker Abderazzak Hamdallah was a key player for the team, scoring 22 times in 22 appearances. However, manager Eriksson left at the end of his contract and moved to Shanghai SIPG who had finished fifth that year.\n\nOn January 2, 2015, the club announced that Cosmin Contra would be their new manager. Contra coached the club in their maiden appearance in the Asian Champions League, coming through the preliminary stages against Warriors FC and Central Coast Mariners to earn a place in the group stage. However, despite an away victory over Gamba Osaka, Guangzhou R&F were eliminated at the group stage. The club's league form was also poor and Contra was sacked on July 22. Li Bing was installed as caretaker manager. There were more changes as Korean defensive midfielder Park Jong-woo and the injured and unsettled Hamdallah also left the club mid-season. Hamdallah only scored three goals in 2015, making him the club's all-time leading foreign scorer at the time with 25, one ahead of Yakubu. The disruption continued as R&F were forced to play some of their home matches at Guangzhou's University City Stadium whilst Yuexiushan was being refurbished, just as in 2012. \n\nGuangzhou R&F announced Dragan Stojković as their new manager on 24 August and handed the former Yugoslav international a contract to the end of the 2017 season. Stojkovic preserved R&F's top flight status as they finished 14th out of 16 teams in 2015.\n\nIn July 2016, R&F signed Israeli international Eran Zahavi from Maccabi Tel Aviv F.C. Whilst home stadium Yuexiushan was being refurbished, R&F played their opening home games in 2017 at the Guangdong Provincial People's Stadium. Stojkovic's attacking style of play and Zahavi's goals led R&F to finish fifth in the CSL in 2017. There was double disappointment on the final day of the season however as the club fell just short of qualifying for the ACL and Zahavi missed out on breaking the single season CSL scoring record by just one goal. However, his 27 goals earned him the 2017 golden boot. Guangzhou R&F reached the semi-finals of the CFA Cup in 2018 but had a disappointing CSL campaign as they finished 10th.\n\nGuangzhou R&F finished 12th in the CSL in 2019. In attack, Zahavi's 29 goals set a new single season scoring record but the team had the worst defensive record in the league, conceding 72 goals in 30 games. After spending over four seasons at the club - making him Guangzhou R&F's longest ever serving manager - Stojkovic left the club in January 2020.\n\nGiovanni van Bronckhorst was announced as Guangzhou R&F's new manager on 4 January 2020.\n\n\nThe club took part in the Liaoning Derby, which was a regional fixture contested against Dalian Football Club and Liaoning FC while the club was located in Shenyang. The tie against Liaoning FC was the more intimate affair because the clubs shared the Shenyang People's Stadium in the 1994 league season compared to the Dalian fixture, which historically saw few meaningful clashes. At the end of the 2006 league season the club left this derby when they moved out of Shenyang.\n\nWhen the club moved to Guangzhou they soon formed a rivalry with Guangzhou Evergrande, which is often referred to as the Canton derby. The first derby was played at Yuexiushan Stadium in a league match on March 16, 2012 and Guangzhou R&F won 2–0 at home against the reigning league champions. The venue was significant because it had been Guangzhou Evergrande's home ground. However, the two club owners, Zhang Li and Xu Jiayin, did not view the derby with hostility and on the return fixture, which R&F won 1–0. They were seen enjoying a meal together instead of watching the game.\n\n\"As of 1 August 2019\"\n\n</div>\n\n\n\nGuangzhou R&F played in the Asian Champions League in 2015. They beat Singaporean side Warriors FC and Australian team Central Coast Mariners in the qualifying rounds but were knocked-out in the group stage.\n\nIn August 2016 it was announced that R&F had entered a satellite team into the Hong Kong Premier League. Players registered for the Chinese Super League are ineligible to play in the Hong Kong Premier League, and vice versa. R&F (Hong Kong) played their home matches at the Siu Sai Wan Sports Ground during the first season. The following year, they were permitted to play their home matches at Yanzigang Stadium in Guangzhou under the condition that all away teams' travelling expenses would be covered by R&F.\n\n<br>\n<br>\n<br>\n<br>\n<br>\n<br>\n<br>\n<br>\n"}
{"id": "2134946", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2134946", "title": "Paul McCrossan", "text": "Paul McCrossan\n\nWilliam Paul Joseph McCrossan (born May 20, 1942) is a Canadian actuary and former Member of Parliament.\n\nMcCrossan was born in Toronto. An actuary by profession, McCrossan has served as president of the Canadian Institute of Actuaries. He was employed by Canada Life Assurance prior to being elected to the House of Commons.\n\nHe represented the riding of York—Scarborough as a Progressive Conservative from 1978, when he was elected in a by-election until his defeat in the 1980 general election. As an MP, he introduced a private member's bill, Bill C-255, the \"Public Pensions Reporting Act\", which passed unanimously. He also supported the passage of the \"Non-smokers' Rights Act\", which was introduced by a New Democratic Party member of parliament, Lynn McDonald.\n\nHe was re-elected in the 1984 election, but lost to Liberal Jim Karygiannis in the redistributed riding of Scarborough—Agincourt in the 1988 election.\n\nHe attempted to return to politics in the riding of Scarborough East in the 2000 federal election but was defeated.\n\nFrom 1995 to 1996, he was president of the International Actuarial Association. In 2001, he was named to the Standards Advisory Council of the International Accounting Standards Committee. He was a consulting actuary and partner at Eckler Partners Ltd., now known as Eckler Ltd. He served on the advisory committee for Sir Derek Morris's review of the actuarial profession in the United Kingdom, known as the \"Morris Review\".\n\nIn 2010, McCrossan was named to the New Brunswick Task Force on Protecting Pensions.\n"}
{"id": "2134947", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2134947", "title": "Indian millet", "text": "Indian millet\n\nIndian millet is a name widely used in different parts of the world to describe a number of different plants. A possibly incomplete list is:\n\n\nAll of these are members of the family Poaceae and they are either fodder- or grain-producing plants.\n"}
{"id": "2134949", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2134949", "title": "List of King of the Hill episodes", "text": "List of King of the Hill episodes\n\n\"King of the Hill\" is an American animated television series created by Mike Judge and Greg Daniels. The series focuses on the Hills, a middle-class American family in the fictional city of Arlen, Texas. It originally aired on Fox from January 12, 1997 to September 13, 2009; with four episodes from the final season premiering in syndication from May 3 to May 6, 2010. A total of 259 episodes aired over the course of 13 seasons.\n\n<onlyinclude></onlyinclude>\n\n"}
{"id": "2134961", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2134961", "title": "Alison Goldfrapp", "text": "Alison Goldfrapp\n\nAlison Margaret Elizabeth Goldfrapp (born 13 May 1966) is an English musician and record producer, best known as the vocalist of British electronic music duo Goldfrapp.\n\nGoldfrapp was born on 13 May 1966, in Enfield, London, the youngest of six children. Her mother, Isabella Barge, was a nurse. Her father, Nicholas Goldfrapp, had been an army officer, and worked in advertising. Goldfrapp's surname is of German origin, and she has German ancestry through her father. While Goldfrapp was growing up, her family moved frequently, eventually settling in Alton, Hampshire, where Goldfrapp attended the independent Alton Convent School. She sang in a choir at the school and has said that she loved being in a school with nuns. However she was forced to leave at age 11 due to failing the senior exam, and attended the local comprehensive school, Amery Hill School. She moved into a squat in London aged 16. At 24 years old, she attended Middlesex University where she studied fine art and mixed media.\n\nIn 1994, she featured on the Orbital album \"Snivilisation\" and recorded songs \"The Good\" and \"The Bad\" with trip reggae outfit Dreadzone, for their 'best of' album \"The Best of Dreadzone – The Good The Bad and the Dread\". Performing with them live resulted in two songs on the limited edition \"Performance\" album released in 1994. In the same year Goldfrapp featured on trip hop artist Tricky's 1995 song \"Pumpkin\" and collaborated with Stefan Girardet on two songs on the soundtrack to the 1995 film \"The Confessional\".\n\nGoldfrapp was introduced to composer Will Gregory in 1999 after he had listened to her vocal contribution for \"Pumpkin\". Alison Goldfrapp then formed Goldfrapp with Will Gregory in 1999 and subsequently signed to Mute Records.\n\nThe pair began recording their debut album over a six-month period, beginning in September 1999, in a rented bungalow in the Wiltshire countryside. The band's debut album \"Felt Mountain\" was released in 2000 and featured Goldfrapp's synthesized vocals over cinematic soundscapes. Goldfrapp released their second album \"Black Cherry\" in 2003. The band recorded the album in Bath, England. This album focused more heavily on dance music and glam rock-inspired synths than its predecessor. \"Black Cherry\" peaked at number nineteen on the UK Albums Chart and sold 52,000 copies in the US. \"Supernature\", Goldfrapp's third album, was released in 2005. The album comprises pop and electronic dance music prominently featured on \"Black Cherry\", but focuses more on subtle hooks instead of the large choruses that made up its predecessor. It has sold one million copies worldwide and earned the duo two nominations at the 2007 Grammy Awards for Best Electronic/Dance Album and Best Dance Recording for the song \"Ooh La La\". \"Seventh Tree\", Goldfrapp's fourth album, was released in 2008 and debuted at number two on the UK Albums Chart. The album is a departure from the pop and electronic dance music featured on \"Supernature\", featuring ambient and downtempo music. The band were inspired by an acoustic radio session they had performed, which led the duo to incorporate acoustic guitars into their music to create \"warm\" and \"delicate\" sounds.\n\nIn 2009, she was awarded an Honorary Doctor of Music degree by the University of Portsmouth.\n\nGoldfrapp have released seven albums, most recently \"Silver Eye\" in 2017. Hits include \"Strict Machine\", \"Ooh La La\", \"Lovely Head\" and \"A&E\". The multi-platinum selling band have been nominated for the Mercury Prize, multiple Grammy Awards and won an Ivor Novello for \"Strict Machine\".\n\nGoldfrapp scored the films \"My Summer of Love\" and \"Nowhere Boy\".\n\nIn recent years, Alison has dedicated more time to her role as a photographer and director. She created and photographed the album artwork for \"Silver Eye\" and directed videos for singles \"Systemagic\", \"Everything Is Never Enough\" and \"Ocean\".\n\nGoldfrapp has an expansive soprano vocal range. She is noted for her operatic abilities, particularly on the group's debut album \"Felt Mountain\" and prominently on the songs \"Utopia\" and \"Pilots\". Her delivery in a more contemporary voice has been described as \"breathy\", \"sultry\", \"ethereal\" and \"startling\".\n\nGoldfrapp has been commended for her vocal versatility, morphing her voice to fit various genres such as folk, pop, classical, dance, trip hop and electronica throughout her career. Goldfrapp has used a vocoder to modify her voice to fit the material she is singing, such as the song \"Lovely Head\". Vocally, Goldfrapp has been compared to Marlene Dietrich, Siouxsie Sioux, Björk, Kate Bush and the Cocteau Twins.\n\nGoldfrapp produces and writes most of her material alongside bandmate Will Gregory. She draws inspiration from a range of artists and musical genres. As a teenager she listened to Kate Bush, T. Rex, Donna Summer, Joan Jett, Marc Bolan, David Cassidy, and Iggy Pop and The Stooges, and discovered Serge Gainsbourg while working in Belgium. While travelling through Europe in the early 1990s, she began listening to Polish disco music and cabaret music from the Weimar Republic. Other media, including film, have influenced Goldfrapp who cites Roman Polanski's 1966 psychological thriller \"Cul-de-sac\", the 1973 cult film \"The Wicker Man\" and the James Bond franchise as influences. She draws inspiration from surrealism and nature, all of which appear in Goldfrapp's album artwork, which she designs in collaboration with Big Active. Goldfrapp believes that \"music is a visual experience\" and therefore visualises her lyrics before writing them. While writing, Goldfrapp uses her vocals to create melodies and drumbeats. Her songwriting is characterised by its use of animals to describe human emotions and status.\n\nWhile touring in 2004, sections of the group's stage show featured Goldfrapp in a white dress wearing a horse tail and dancers with deer heads, which were inspired by her interest in animals and mythology.\n\nThe artwork for Goldfrapp's album \"Seventh Tree\" featured her dressed as a Pierrot. Her new image, inspired by paganism, featured her dressed in white or natural-coloured flowing gowns with loose curly blonde hair.\n\nDuring 2010, Goldfrapp took on several new images to fit with their forthcoming album \"Head First\". The music on this album was more '80s-influenced, reflected in the artwork featured on the album's first single, \"Rocket\", which features Goldfrapp in a pink jumpsuit. For their live shows, she wore spangly black leggings and a jacket covered in VHS tape which was blown about by two electric fans placed at front centre-stage. The shine of the plastic reflected the colourful stage lighting.\n\nIn 2013, Alison was invited by The Lowry, Salford to curate an exhibition as part of their ‘Performer as Curator’ annual series. The exhibition was a collection of photography and paintings inspired by ideas of metamorphosis and fairytales.\n\nGoldfrapp confirmed she was dating film editor Lisa Gunning in a February 2010 interview with \"The Sunday Times\" saying, \"I think of everything as being about a person and a relationship, and I am in a wonderful relationship with a wonderful person. It just happens to be with a lady... It's something I've thought about for a long time and it concurs with my philosophy on life and sexuality. I don't think it can or should be pigeonholed. I've thought about this since I was a teenager. I've always found it claustrophobic to think about having to put things into categories like that. My sexuality is the same as my music and my life. Why does it need a label?\" All of Goldfrapp's relationships before this were with men.\n\nGoldfrapp is dyslexic.\n\n"}
{"id": "2134964", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2134964", "title": "Japanese holdout", "text": "Japanese holdout\n\nJapanese holdouts () were soldiers of the Imperial Japanese Army and Imperial Japanese Navy during the Pacific Theatre of World War II who continued fighting after the surrender of Japan in August 1945. Japanese holdouts either doubted the veracity of the formal surrender, rejected demobilization for ideological reasons, or were simply not aware because communications had been cut off by Allied advances.\n\nSome continued to fight enemy forces and local police, or volunteered with local independence movements such as the First Indochina War and Indonesian National Revolution, for years after the war was over. Many holdouts were discovered in Southeast Asia and the Pacific Islands over the following decades, with the last one, Private Teruo Nakamura surrendering on Morotai Island in Indonesia in December 1974. Newspapers reported holdouts into the early 1980s and said searches had been conducted several times over the decades, but the information was too scant to take further action. Since the 1990s a number of holdouts have been allegedly spotted, which some investigators believe to be stories invented by local residents to attract Japanese tourists.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2134968", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2134968", "title": "Division of Oxley (1901–1934)", "text": "Division of Oxley (1901–1934)\n\nThe Division of Oxley was an Australian electoral division in the state of Queensland. It was located in the inner southern suburbs of Brisbane, and originally included the suburbs of South Brisbane, Woolloongabba and Coorparoo. By the time it was abolished in 1934, it had been redistributed to cover suburbs such as Bulimba and Murarrie.\n\nThe division was proclaimed in 1900, and was one of the original 65 divisions to be contested at the first federal election. It was named after explorer John Oxley. The Division was abolished and replaced by the Division of Griffith at the redistribution of 1 August 1934. At the redistribution of 11 May 1949, a new Division of Oxley was created in the south-western suburbs of Brisbane, primarily around Ipswich.\n"}
{"id": "2134977", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2134977", "title": "Field Communications", "text": "Field Communications\n\nField Communications was a division of Field Enterprises, which owned the \"Chicago Sun-Times\" and the \"Chicago Daily News\". The company owned independent television stations in the United States, with WFLD in Chicago as its largest-market station.\n\nThe broadcasting arm of Field Enterprises began in January 1966 with the initial sign-on of WFLD-TV (Channel 32). In 1972, Field sold a majority ownership (about 77.5 percent) of WFLD to Kaiser Broadcasting, owners of KBSC-TV (Channel 52) in Corona, California (serving the Los Angeles and southern California area), WKBG-TV in Cambridge, Massachusetts, (Channel 56 - serving the Boston metropolitan area, and in tandem with the daily newspaper\"\"The Boston Globe\"\"), WKBS-TV in Burlington, New Jersey (Channel 48 serving Philadelphia metro area), WKBF-TV (Channel 61) in Cleveland, WKBD-TV (Channel 50) in Detroit, and KBHK-TV in San Francisco. Field retained the remainder of WFLD's shares (about 22.5 percent), and in return, received a minority stake in Kaiser Broadcasting (also about 22.5 percent).\n\nIn 1975 Kaiser shut down WKBF in Cleveland, returning its license to the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) and merging most of its programming with WUAB, of which Kaiser purchased a minority ownership from United Artists Broadcasting.\n\nIn 1977, Kaiser sold its majority stake of their stations, sans KBSC (which was sold to Oak TV), to Field. This gave Field one-hundred percent ownership of WFLD again. Field did not acquire Kaiser's share of WUAB, which United Artists then sold to Gaylord Broadcasting (Gaylord Entertainment Company) that same year. The new owners also updated the look of all of the former Kaiser stations and also created a distinctive jingle and slogan used across all stations, \"The Choice is Yours\", an early example of corporate branding.\n\nIn 1982, half-brothers Marshall Field V and Frederick W. Field, who each controlled half of Field Enterprises, were at odds on how the company should operate which left them unable to work together. As a result of the dispute, Field Communications was put up for sale with the 5 stations as a packaged deal. With no takers the TV stations were individually put up for sale, as Field opted to dissolve the company. All of them were sold successfully except for the stations in Philadelphia and Detroit. However, WKBD in Detroit was eventually sold to Cox Enterprises in 1984. Many companies offered Field money for WKBS in Philadelphia; however, none of the bids was high enough. Meanwhile, the FCC gave Field a mandate which meant they had until July 15, 1983 to either sell WKBS, shut the station down, or remove it from the selling block and continue to broadcast. The Providence Journal Company, owners of rival Philadelphia independent TV station WPHL-TV, (and the major daily newspaper in Rhode Island, the \"Providence Journal\"), offered to buy WKBS and merge the assets of the two stations. Their bid was still too low, so WPHL offered to buy only equipment and programming from Field contingent upon the passing of their deadline and the exercising of their second option. The deadline had passed and Field decided to go through with the deal, and on August 30, 1983, Field signed WKBS-TV off the air for good and surrendered the license back to the FCC.\n\nFootnotes:\n\nField Communications' 1980–1981 video sales presentation (part 1) (part 2)\n"}
{"id": "2134978", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2134978", "title": "Alphabet agencies", "text": "Alphabet agencies\n\nThe alphabet agencies (also New Deal agencies) were the U.S. federal government agencies created as part of the New Deal of President Franklin D. Roosevelt. The earliest agencies were created to combat the Great Depression in the United States and were established during Roosevelt's first 100 days in office in 1933. William Safire notes that the phrase \"gave color to the charge of excessive bureaucracy.\" Democrat Al Smith, who turned against Roosevelt, said his government was “submerged in a bowl of alphabet soup.\"\n\nIn total, at least 69 offices were created during Roosevelt's terms of office as part of the New Deal, and \"even the Comptroller-General of the United States, who audits the government's accounts, declared he had never heard of some of them.\" While previously all monetary appropriations had been separately passed by Act of Congress, as part of their power of the purse; the National Industrial Recovery Act allowed Roosevelt to allocate $3.3 billion without Congress (as much as had been previously spent by government in ten years time), through executive orders and other means. These powers were used to create many of the alphabet agencies. Other laws were passed allowing the new bureaus to pass their own directives within a wide sphere of authority. Even though the National Industrial Recovery Act was found to be Unconstitutional, many of the agencies created under it remained.\n\nSome alphabet agencies were established by Congress, such as the Tennessee Valley Authority. Others were established through Roosevelt executive orders, such as the Works Progress Administration and the Office of Censorship, or were part of larger programs such as the many that belonged to the Works Progress Administration. The agencies were sometimes referred to as alphabet soup. Some of the agencies still exist today, while others have merged with other departments and agencies or were abolished, or found unconstitutional.\n"}
{"id": "2134979", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2134979", "title": "Elbaite", "text": "Elbaite\n\nElbaite, a sodium, lithium, aluminium boro-silicate, with the chemical composition Na(LiAl)AlSiO(BO)(OH), is a mineral species belonging to the six-member ring cyclosilicate tourmaline group.\n\nElbaite forms three series, with dravite, with fluor-liddicoatite, and with schorl. Due to these series, specimens with the ideal endmember formula are not found occurring naturally. \n\nAs a gemstone, elbaite is a desirable member of the tourmaline group because of the variety and depth of its colours and quality of the crystals. Originally discovered on the island of Elba, Italy in 1913, it has since been found in many parts of the world. In 1994, a major locality was discovered in Canada, at O'Grady Lakes in the Yukon. \n\nElbaite forms in igneous and metamorphic rocks and veins in association with lepidolite, microcline, and spodumene in granite pegmatites; with andalusite and biotite in schist; and with molybdenite and cassiterite in massive hydrothermal replacement deposits.\n\nElbaite is allochromatic, meaning trace amounts of impurities can tint crystals, and it can be strongly pleochroic. Every color of the rainbow may be represented by elbaite, some exhibiting multicolor zonation. Microscopic acicular inclusions in some elbaite crystals show the Cat's eye effect in polished cabochons. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "2135016", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2135016", "title": "H. D. Shourie", "text": "H. D. Shourie\n\nHari Dev Shourie (1911–2005) was a well-known consumer activist in India.\n\nHari Dev Shourie was born in Lahore in British India in 1911. He has also served in the Indian Civil Services. He served as Director General at the Indian Institute of Foreign Trade. He founded Common Cause in India) in 1980, a New Delhi based NGO. He also edited the journal published by Common Cause on consumer rights, named \"Common Cause\", which he started even before Indian people were aware of the concept of Consumer rights. He fought a number of Public Interest Litigations, many of which resulted in Landmark Judgments by the Supreme Court of India. Common Cause (India) has helped lakhs of people in getting justice — for example getting their pensions etc. The Government of India awarded him the Padma Bhushan and the Padma Vibhushan, the third and the second highest civilian awards. He was also named on People of the Year by the Limca Book of Records.\n\nCommon Cause has worked towards probity in public life and integrity of institutions and is dedicated to championing public causes. Common Cause has worked on issues like the 2G spectrum case, Indian coal allocation scam, Advance healthcare directive, appointment of Lokpal, banning of Professional Blood Donation, etc.\n\nHis son is Arun Shourie, former Minister for Communications, IT and Disinvestment and one of India's best known journalists. Deepak Shourie, managing director, Discovery Communications India. \nHis daughter is Nalini Singh, TV journalist-anchor and managing director, TV Live India Pvt Ltd. are his sons and daughter.\n\n"}
{"id": "2135021", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2135021", "title": "Radio Adelaide", "text": "Radio Adelaide\n\nRadio Adelaide (call sign: 5UV) is Australia's first community radio station; established by Adelaide University in 1972. The signal reaches across the Adelaide metropolitan area to the Mid North, the Yorke Peninsula and Fleurieu Peninsula, the southern Barossa, Kangaroo Island, Riverland and parts of the Eyre Peninsula broadcasting at 13 kilowatts on 101.5 MHz FM. The transmitter power was only 7 kW until an upgrade on 2 November 2006.\n\nRadio Adelaide was formerly known as 5UV, denoting its links to the University of Adelaide, the university where the radio station was originally located and started. The radio station was renamed Radio Adelaide in 2002 to coincide with its transfer from AM to FM band, following the ABA Licence Area Plans for Adelaide finding an available frequency on 101.5 FM.\n\nRadio Adelaide is highly autonomous despite technically being owned by the University of Adelaide until 2016, when the university sold the radio station premises and transferred the broadcast licence to Educational Broadcasters Adelaide Inc (EBA). The station is run by over five hundred volunteer station workers as well as a small amount of paid staff.\nBecause Radio Adelaide is a community radio station, there are many program styles including comedy, music, etc. Because of this, Radio Adelaide uses strip programming to ensure some consistency and coherency. Programs on Radio Adelaide are provided by volunteers and also by access groups who pay for on air time. The largest purchaser of access time was \"Student Radio\" a collection of Radio Programs provided by university students from the University of Adelaide, Flinders University and the University of South Australia. After the introduction of Voluntary Student Unionism the hours which Student Radio broadcasts have been reduced, making the \"Roundabout\" program the largest purchaser of access time. Radio Adelaide collaborates with community radio stations 2SER Sydney and 4EB Brisbane to contribute content to the national current affairs radio programme \"The Wire\" by co-ordinating, resourcing and developing stories.\n\nRadio Adelaide was a Registered Training Organisation providing nationally accredited training and in 1999 won Adult Learning Australia's Outstanding Training Provider of the Year Award. Radio Adelaide has audio production facilities available including recording, mastering, duplication, online audio, digital transfer, message on hold, equipment hire and expert technical advice.\n\nIn 1970, Kenneth Stirling, an accountant who worked for a mining company, anonymously donated $100,000 to the University of Adelaide to establish an educational community radio station. It was an idea being developed by key people at the University interested in broadening access to education, but it was also an innovative and creative leap, as there were not any such stations in Australia. Stirling died in 1973 and his anonymous donation became public. When 5UV opened in 1972, it had a special one-off licence, but the momentum for community access to broadcasting was happening nationally and it became a ‘public radio’ licence in 1974 along with a further 11 stations all in other Australian states. Stirling's donation gave 5UV Radio Adelaide a special place as the first station in Australia’s very diverse community radio sector.\n\nIn 1972, the newly created 5UV radio station began broadcasting in small rooms under the former Hughes Plaza, now the Hub Central, on the University of Adelaide campus. The University of Adelaide purchased the site on 228 North Terrace in the mid 1980s and Radio Adelaide's relocation was managed by its 1984 Station Manager Jill Lambert, with the new studios being built from 1988 and opened in April 1989.\n\nIn 1972, Radio Adelaide (named 5UV at the time), began broadcasting on AM 531 band, then on 101.5 FM band as Radio Adelaide in 2002 and then on digital radio from 2011. In December 2003, following 18 months of planning and fundraising, Radio Adelaide launched its new antenna to take maximum advantage of its 101.5 FM frequency.\n\nIn 2014, the University of Adelaide's Vice-Chancellor Warren Bebbington announced changes to the funding model and location of Radio Adelaide to invest in other projects and its new Medical School. In June 2015, the University of Adelaide sold the station's studios at 228 North Terrace and the staff and volunteers were told to move by mid 2016. In December 2015, the University of Adelaide released a discussion paper to invite briefings from key stakeholders regarding the future of Radio Adelaide which included shutting down Radio Adelaide, ending 43 years of broadcasting and partnership with the University of Adelaide. Following the announcement that Radio Adelaide may face closure, the station's staff and volunteers began a grassroots campaign online and via social media to ensure the station's future. A week later, the University of Adelaide announced it will inform the station's staff and volunteers of Radio Adelaide's future in early January 2016 after the University released a Registration of Interest document seeking potential owners for Radio Adelaide, with a closing date of 24 December 2015. The University of Adelaide scheduled a meeting with the station's staff in late January 2016 but cancelled at the last minute citing \"The assessment of short-listed bidders for Radio Adelaide is not yet complete.\"\n\nOn 18 February 2016, the University of Adelaide signed a deal with community radio station Fresh FM 92.7 to help operate and manage the station to become an independent not-for-profit organisation from July 2016. Under the new agreement with Fresh FM, Radio Adelaide will retain its educational mission and will initially co-locate with Fresh 92.7 in their Rundle Street Studios with a view to moving to new studios in the future. The transfer of the broadcasting licence from the University to a new entity cannot be finalised until approved by the broadcasting authority ACMA. It remains unclear how much of Radio Adelaide's current facilities and capacity will be retained in the shift, as Radio Adelaide's schedule tended to be eclectic with a mix of ethnically diverse programming, access groups, education and arts coverage.\n\nIn March 2016, a group of Radio Adelaide station workers and volunteers formed a body named RadAd Station Workers Association (RASWA) to represent the broader station community and to provide public comment on recent developments regarding the station's future due to a continued gag placed on paid station staff.\n\nIn May 2016, former Liberal MP Iain Evans was appointed the Chairman of the new Radio Adelaide board. Other board members included lawyer Andrea Michaels, and station representatives Charlotte Bedford and Nikki Marcel. Radio Adelaide continued broadcasting during the transition to their temporary studios shared with Fresh 92.7, with automated programming for three weeks until Radio Adelaide's relaunch in late July 2016.\n\nIn June 2016, former television and radio sports broadcaster Rob Popplestone was appointed as Radio Adelaide's new General Manager with Joanna Chronis joining the new Radio Adelaide board and station representatives Charlotte Bedford and Nikki Marcel stepping down. In July 2016, Popplestone announced the station's jazz and classical weekday morning programming would be axed and the new Radio Adelaide's launch postponed until early August due to delays in studio construction in Adelaide's East End. The RadAd Station Workers Association (RASWA) raised concerns about the announcement regarding the management's failure to comply with the station's licence obligations by not involving volunteers in the decision-making process. RASWA emphasised it is a legal obligation for community radio stations to encourage community access and participation in all aspects of station operations, from programming to management.\n\nOn 1 August 2016, Radio Adelaide returned to live broadcasting at the new studios shared with Fresh FM on 3 Cinema Place in Adelaide's East End.\n\nOn 1 December 2016, Radio Adelaide received short notice that 891 ABC Adelaide would be renamed \"ABC Radio Adelaide\" as part of the national broadcaster's rebranding strategy for all its radio stations in January 2017. Radio Adelaide's chairman Iain Evans accused the ABC of attempting to steal Radio Adelaide's name. Radio Adelaide's lawyer Andrea Michaels sent a legal notice to the ABC and submitted a trademark application to secure the stand-alone name 'Radio Adelaide' as the radio station already had claims to the name as a registered trademark and under common law. ABC local content manager Graeme Bennett argued there will be no confusion as the two radio stations have different audiences and it made sense to drop the call sign \"891\" from the branding as most people listen to digital radio that automatically tunes to the radio station.\n\nOn 14 December 2016, Radio Adelaide took the ABC to the federal court and sought a temporary injunction against the ABC in using the name \"ABC Radio Adelaide\" for 891 ABC Adelaide.\nOn 19 December 2016, the broadcasting authority ACMA announced its approval of the transfer of Radio Adelaide's licence to Educational Broadcasters Adelaide Inc (EBA), and the University of Adelaide had 90 days to transfer the licence to EBA. The ACMA was satisfied with the written assurance from the University of Adelaide and the EBA to develop and provide a community consultation strategy and structured engagement programme to be implemented by 1 March 2017.\nIn late December, the Federal Court granted Radio Adelaide a temporary injunction until April 2017 against ABC renaming 891 ABC Adelaide to ABC Radio Adelaide.\n\nOn 9 January 2017, 891 ABC Adelaide celebrated with its temporary new name ABC Adelaide as its interstate counterparts converted to ABC Radio Darwin, ABC Radio Brisbane etc.\n\nAdelaide University Student Radio (AUSR) is an access group at Radio Adelaide and is funded by Adelaide University Union. It is the oldest student radio program in Australia, having been broadcasting since 1975. AUSR suffered severe funding cuts since the introduction of Voluntary Student Unionism legislation with weekly hours being cut from nine to three, before being increased to six and then seven in 2016. Local Noise, a live local band show, was the flagship of AUSR until 2007 when it was decided that funding was insufficient to maintain it and it was handed over to Radio Adelaide. Local Noise now broadcasts every weekday between 9am and noon showcasing Adelaide bands, as well as Australian bands touring to Adelaide soon.\n\nAdelaide University Student Radio previously aired Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday nights from 11pm-1am, but as of 2016 broadcasts 6pm-1am on Friday nights.\nThe current student radio broadcast schedule can be found at the Radio Adelaide Website.\n\nStudent Radio is overseen by up to three Student Radio Directors, who must be members of the Adelaide University Union and are elected during the annual Union elections.\n\nStudent Radio Directors\n\n2010 Casey Briggs and Chrissy Kavanagh \n2011 Casey Briggs, Timothy Molineux and Sebastian Tonkin \n2012 Timothy Molineux, Taherah Tahmasebi and Joel Parsons \n2013 Kate Drinkwater, Bernard Evans and Luke Eygenraam \n2014 Galen Cuthbertson and Jennifer Nguyen \n2015 Matthew Bell, Wang Yang (part-year) and Isabella Xu (part-year) \n2016 Sophie Atkinson and Rob Lawry \n\nFlinders University Student Radio (FUSR) was broadcast on Radio Adelaide from 1997 to 2006, until funding was withdrawn following voluntary student unionism. FUSR was a 3-hour timeslot produced in a number of formats: comedy, variety, punk, metal, talkback, political discussion, sports, and even radio plays. All shows were solely hosted by students from Flinders University.\n\n"}
{"id": "2135044", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2135044", "title": "Reams (surname)", "text": "Reams (surname)\n\nReams is a surname. Notable people with the surname include:\n\n"}
{"id": "2135045", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2135045", "title": "Diane Martel", "text": "Diane Martel\n\nDiane Martel (also known as Bucky Chrome) is an American music video director and choreographer.\n\nDiane Martel currently has properties in New York City and Los Angeles. \n\nDiane Martel was nominated for the Video of the Year for her work in “Blurred Lines” – Robin Thicke feat. Pharrell & T.I. in 2013.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2135051", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2135051", "title": "Lengshuijiang", "text": "Lengshuijiang\n\nLengshuijiang () is a county-level city in Hunan Province, China, it is under the administration of Loudi prefecture-level City. Located in central Hunan, the city is bordered to the north and west by Xinhua County, to the south by Xinshao County, to the east by Lianyuan City. Lengshuijiang City covers . As of 2015, it has a registered population of 370,300 and a resident population of 342,700. The city has four subdistricts, five towns and a township under its jurisdiction, the government seat is Lengshuijiang Subdistrict ().\n\nLengshuijiang was incorporated as a city in 1960 which created from parts of Xinhua County. It is a resource-based city which is rich in antimony, it has the world's largest antimony mine (more than 50% of the world's production of antimony).\n\nAccording to the result on adjustment of township-level administrative divisions of Lengshuijiang on November 23, 2015, the divisions of Lengshuijiang, according to the result on adjustment of township-level administrative divisions of Lengshuijiang on November 23, 2015: Kuangshan Township was merged into Xikuangshan Subdistrict, Yankou Town was merged into Duoshan Town, Zilong Township was merged into Zhadu Town, Panqiao Township, Tongxing Township and Maoyi Town were revoked.\n\nLengshuijiang is located in the middle of Hunan province, on foothills of the Xuefeng Mountains and along the Zi River. The city is bordered to the north by Anhua County, to the east by Lianyuan, to the south by Xinshao, and to the west and northwest by Xinhua. The city has a total area of .\n\nZi River, is a tributary of Xiang River, flows through the city, draining an area of .\n\nZhoutou Reservoir () is a reservoir and the largest body of water in the city.\n\nThere are 123 mountains in the city over above sea level, and 20 of them are more than . The highest natural elevation in Lengshuijiang is at Zushiling Ridge ().\n\nLengshuijiang is in the subtropical monsoon climate zone, with an average annual temperature of , total annual rainfall of , a frost-free period of 269 days and annual average sunshine hours in 1401.8 hours. It exhibits four distinct seasons.\n\nAs of 2016, Lengshuijiang's GDP is CN￥ 28,880,000,000. The city's economy is dominated by coal resource, which is venerated as \"Coal Sea in Jiangnan\".\n\nAs of 2016, the National Bureau of Statistics of the People's Republic of China estimates the city's population now to be 372,400. Lengshuijiang is mainly Han nationality with Miao, Hui and Tujia ethnic minorities.\n\nMandarin is the official language. The local people speak Loudi dialect.\n\nThe city hosts religious institutions of various faiths, including Christianity, Islam, Chinese folk religion, Buddhism, and Taoism.\n\nAs of 2016, Lengshuijiang has two high schools, 11 middle schools, 57 primary schools and 78 kindergartens.\n\nLengshuijiang Normal School is an institution of higher education in Lengshuijiang, which has no university.\n\nThe Shanghai–Kunming railway, from Shanghai to Kunming, southwest China's Yunnan province, through the middle of the city.\n\nThe Shanghai–Kunming high-speed railway, also passes through the southwestern city.\n\nThe S70 Loudi–Huaihua Expressway, more commonly known as \"Louhuai Expressway\", is a west–east highway passing through the southwestern city.\n\nThe Provincial Highway S312 runs east to west through the city.\n\nThe Provincial Highway S217 is a north–south highway passing through the town of Sanjian.\n\nBoyue Cave is situated in Zhonglian Township. It is the most well-known tourist spot in the city. The spot was used for location filming of the 1986 fantasy television series \"Journey to the West\".\n\nDachengshan Scenic Spot () is a provincial-level scenic spot in southeastern Lengshuijiang.\n\nZhoutouhu Holiday Resort () is a popular attraction in the city for recreation for residents.\n\n"}
{"id": "2135055", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2135055", "title": "PNS Rah Naward", "text": "PNS Rah Naward\n\nPNS \"Rah Naward is a sail training ship of the Pakistan Navy. She was commissioned in 2001 as Prince William\" for the Tall Ships Youth Trust and sold in 2010 to the Pakistan Navy and renamed \"Rah Naward\" (\"Swift Mover\").\n\n\"Rah Naward\" has the callsign ARNR and the IMO number 9222326.\n\n\"Rah Naward\" was built as Prince William, one of two tall ships commissioned by the Tall Ships Youth Trust (formerly the Sail Training Association), obtained half-completed from another project in Germany. They were transported to Appledore Ship Yards in Devon, where they were modified to the TSYT's requirements, and fitted out.\n\nThe TSYT's ships are two-masted brigs, with the rig designed by Michael Willoughby. The hulls were built in Germany as cruise ships for the West Indies, designed to carry masts and sails and use them from time to time, but not to be serious sailing vessels. This project was cancelled and the part-finished hulls were bought in 1997 by the TSYT. They were then modified by Appledore Shipbuilders to take the strains of a full sailing rig and to improve their sailing properties, including the addition of a new deeper keel holding fifty tons of ballast.\n\n's rig was designed according to traditional rules and is occasionally modified slightly with trainees in mind. The foremast is slightly shorter than the main mast, but they are otherwise identical. Each consists of a steel lower mast and topmast and timber topgallant and royal mast. Spars are steel on the lower and topmasts (course, lower topsail and upper topsail yards) and timber above this (topgallant and royal yards). Access to the tops is by a vertical \"jacob's ladder\" down to the ratlines, rather than inverted futtock shrouds. There is a gold sovereign placed under the foremast where it meets the keel, a tradition supposed to give the ship luck.\n\nThe accommodation for voyage crew (i.e. ordinary paying crew members) is in six eight-berth cabins, two for each watch. Volunteers are in 2-3 berth cabins and the permanent crew have individual cabins. The accommodation is air-conditioned, because the ship spends a significant amount of time in tropical waters each year.\n\n\"Prince William\" competed in the 2005 Tall Ships' Races. She came fourth in class (of 25) and fourth overall (of 100+) in the first race from Waterford to Cherbourg. In the second race, from Newcastle to Fredrikstad, she suspended racing in order to answer a distress call from another vessel, the Lowestoft trawler \"Excelsior\", which was in danger of losing her mast and sinking. The \"Prince William\", which is registered as a UK Auxiliary Coastguard vessel, stood by \"Excelsior\" in case of disaster, supplied a portable pump via RIB in large seas, and accompanied her into Fredrikstad in case of further damage. \"Prince William\" was listed as \"retired\" by the race authorities, but was awarded a prize for her actions.\n\n\"Prince William\" completed her final voyage with the TSYT in 2007; its 6th Brig Match Race in Portsmouth, 29 October – 1 November 2007, competing alongside sister ship; \"Stavros S Niarchos\". With bright sunny skies and freshening winds, the two majestic brigs battled it out over a series of four races on courses set towards Cowes on the first day and Sandown Bay on the Isle of Wight on the second. In the end, Captain Liam Keating on \"Stavros S Niarchos\" took home the Tall Ships Challenge Cup having closely beaten Captain Roy Love on \"Prince William\" 2–1 (one race abandoned due to light winds).\n\nIn 2007 the trustees of the TSYT decided to sell \"Prince William\" and she was laid up in Portsmouth Dockyard and later at Hull.\n\nFollowing interest from the Pakistan Navy, her sale was completed on 20 September 2010.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2135056", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2135056", "title": "Even Wetten", "text": "Even Wetten\n\nEven Gabrielsen Wetten (born 12 August 1982 in Hamar) is a Norwegian speed skater. He became World Champion on 1,000 metres in 2005 in Inzell.\n\nHe retired 3 October 2007, only 25 years old, due to injuries and motivational issues.\n\n"}
{"id": "2135075", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2135075", "title": "Murphy Anderson", "text": "Murphy Anderson\n\nMurphy C. Anderson, Jr. (July 9, 1926 – October 22, 2015) was an American comics artist, known as one of the premier inkers of his era, who worked for companies such as DC Comics for over fifty years, starting in the Golden Age of Comic Books in the 1940s. He worked on such characters as Hawkman, Batgirl, Zatanna, the Spectre, and Superman, as well as on the \"Buck Rogers\" daily syndicated newspaper comic strip. Anderson also contributed for many years to \"PS\", the preventive maintenance comics magazine of the U.S. Army.\n\nMurphy Anderson was born on July 9, 1926, in Asheville, North Carolina, and while in grade school moved with his family to Greensboro, North Carolina. After graduating high school in 1943, he briefly attended the University of North Carolina before moving to New York City seeking work in the comics industry, and was hired by Jack Byrne as a staff artist at the comic-book publisher Fiction House. His first confirmed credit is the two-and-two-thirds-page nonfiction aviation featurette \"Jet Propulsion\" in \"Wings Comics\" #48 (cover-dated Aug. 1944), and his first fiction feature was an eight-page \"Suicide Smith and the Air Commanders\" story in \"Wings Comics\" #50 (Oct. 1944). By the following month he was the regular artist on the \"Planet Comics\" features \"Life on Other Worlds\" and \"Star Pirate\". Anderson continued doing comics work, as well as illustrations for science-fiction pulp magazines, during his stateside postings while serving in the United States Navy from 1944 to 1945.\n\nFrom 1947 to 1949, Anderson was the artist on the \"Buck Rogers\" comic-book series. During the 1950s, Anderson worked for several publishers including Pines Comics, St. John Publications, Ziff Davis, DC Comics, and Atlas Comics, that decade's predecessor of Marvel Comics. \nAnderson succeeded artist and co-creator Carmine Infantino on the superhero feature \"Captain Comet\" beginning with the story \"The Girl from the Diamond Planet\" in \"Strange Adventures\" #12 (cover-dated Sept. 1951). Years later, Anderson and writer John Broome created the feature \"Atomic Knights\" in \"Strange Adventures\" #117 (June 1960), which Anderson later described as his favorite assignment. Anderson and writer Gardner Fox launched the \"Hawkman\" series in May 1964 and introduced the Zatanna character in issue #4 (Nov. 1964). Comics historian Les Daniels noted that \"Hawkman really took off when artist Murphy Anderson took over...Anderson came into his own with his elegantly ornamental version of the Winged Wonder.\" The Spectre was revived by Fox and Anderson in \"Showcase\" #60 (Feb. 1966) and was given his own series in December 1967. In the 1960s Anderson proposed that comics pages be drawn at 10x15 inches rather than the prevailing standard of 12x18 inches, which allowed two pages to be photographed at the same time, and this subsequently became the industry standard.\n\nAnderson designed the costume of Adam Strange. With his frequent collaborator, penciler Curt Swan, the pair's artwork on \"Superman\" and \"Action Comics\" in the 1970s came to be called \"Swanderson\" by fans. He often hid his initials somewhere within the stories he inked. In the early 1970s, DC assigned Anderson, among other artists, to redraw the heads of Jack Kirby's renditions of Superman and Jimmy Olsen, fearing Kirby's versions were too different from the established images of the characters. In 1972, he drew Wonder Woman for the cover of the first issue of \"Ms. Magazine\". In 1973, he established Murphy Anderson Visual Concepts, which provided color separations and lettering for comic books.\n\nAnderson also contributed for many years to \"PS\", the preventive maintenance comics magazine of the U.S. Army.\n\nAnderson and his wife of 67 years, Helen, had two daughters, Sophie and Mary, and a son, Murphy III. Anderson died in Somerset, New Jersey on October 22, 2015, at the age of 89, of heart failure.\n\nAnderson's accolades include the 1962 Alley Award for \"Best Inker\"; a 1963 Alley for \"Artist Preferred on \"Justice League of America\"\"; 1964 Alleys for \"Best Inking Artist\" and for \"Best Comic Book Cover\" (\"Detective Comics\" #329, with penciler Carmine Infantino); 1965 Alleys for, again, \"Best Inking Artist\" and \"Best Comic Book Cover\" (\"The Brave and the Bold\" #61), as well as for \"Best Novel\" (an untitled story in \"Showcase\" #55, with writer Gardner Fox).\n\nAnderson received an Inkpot Award in 1984 and was inducted into the Jack Kirby Hall of Fame in 1998 the Will Eisner Hall of Fame in 1999, and the Inkwell Awards Joe Sinnott Hall of Fame in 2013.\n\nComics work as full artist (pencils and inks, except where noted) includes:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2135105", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2135105", "title": "Srinivasaraghavan Venkataraghavan", "text": "Srinivasaraghavan Venkataraghavan\n\nSrinivasaraghavan Venkataraghavan ( (informally Venkat, born 21 April 1945) is an Indian former cricketer. He captained the Indian cricket team at the first two cricket world cups, and later became an umpire on the elite International Cricket Council Test panel. His Test career was one of the longest for any Indian player. He also played for Derbyshire in English county cricket from 1973 to 1975. A qualified engineer and an alumnus of Chennai's famed College of Engineering, Guindy, he is a recipient of the civilian honour of Padma Shri.\n\nAn off spin bowler, he was one of the famed Indian quartet of spin bowlers in the 1970s (the others being Bhagwat Chandrasekhar, Bishan Singh Bedi and Erapalli Prasanna). He was also a useful tail-end batsman and strong at close fielding. Venkat came on to the Test scene at the age of 20 when he was selected to play against the touring New Zealand side. By the end of the series he had emerged as a world-class spinner, taking 12 wickets in the Delhi test that led India to victory. He was the vice-captain of the Indian team that toured the West Indies and England in 1970–71. India won both series. Venkat played an important role, claiming five wickets in the Trinidad Test and 13 wickets in the three Tests in England. He captained India in both the 1975 and 1979 World Cup competitions. He also led India in a four-Test series against England in 1979. In domestic cricket, he led South Zone and Tamil Nadu for over a decade.\n\nVenkat retired from first-class cricket in 1985. He became a cricket administrator and managed the Indian Test side. He was honoured with the Padma Shri in 2003.\n\nVenkat made his international umpiring debut in the One Day International between India and Australia at Jaipur on 18 January 1993. He made his Test umpiring debut in the same month, with the match between India and England at Kolkata. He gained a place on the inaugural International Umpire Panel when it was formed in 1994, and was selected by the International Cricket Council on a regular basis to umpire in Test matches away from home as the neutral umpire. In 2002 the ICC created an Elite Panel of the top eight umpires, who were employed on a full-time basis and would cover all Test match officiating. Venkat was duly included in the inaugural Elite Panel, of which he remained a member until his retirement in January 2004.\n\nThe highlights of his umpiring career include six Ashes Tests and appointments to three World Cups in 1996, 1999 and 2003. In both the 1996 and 1999 tournaments he was appointed to stand in a semi-final, and was the third umpire of the 1999 World Cup final between Australia and Pakistan at Lord's. In total he officiated on-field in 73 Test matches and 52 One-day Internationals during his career.\n\nVenkataraghavan is an engineering graduate from Madras University.\n\n"}
{"id": "2135106", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2135106", "title": "Hell money", "text": "Hell money\n\nHell money () is a form of joss paper printed to resemble legal tender bank notes. The notes are not an official form of recognized currency or legal tender since their sole intended purpose is to be offered as burnt offerings to the deceased as a solution to resolve their assumed financial problems in the afterlife. This custom has been practiced by the modern Chinese and across East Asia since the late 19th century. Early 20th century examples bore resemblance to minor commercial currency of the type issued by businesses across China until the mid-1940s.\n\nThe identification of this type of joss paper as \"hell bank notes\" or \"hell money\" is largely a Western construct, since these items are simply regarded as yet another form of joss paper ( or ) in East Asian cultures and have no special name or status.\n\nThe word \"hell\" on hell bank notes refers to \"Diyu\" (, \"underworld prison\"; also , \"dìfǔ\", \"underworld court\"). These words are printed on some notes. In traditional Chinese belief, it is thought to be where the souls of the dead are first judged by the Lord of the Earthly Court, Yan Wang. After this particular judgement, they are either escorted to heaven or sent into the maze of underworld levels and chambers to atone for their sins. People believe that even in the earthly court, spirits need to use money.\n\nA popular story says that the word \"hell\" was introduced to China by Christian missionaries, who preached that all non-Christian Chinese people would go to hell after death. The word \"Hell\" was thus misinterpreted to be the proper English term for the afterlife and hence adopted as such. Some printed notes attempt to correct this by omitting the word \"hell\" and sometimes replacing it with \"heaven\" or \"paradise\". These particular bills are usually found in joss packs meant to be burned for Chinese deities, and usually have the same design as hell bank notes but with different colours.\n\nEarlier examples of these notes were issued in denominations of 5 and 10 yuan and upwards, with such amounts being considered adequate until inflation took hold within China from 1944. The soaring denominations of authentic currency was soon reflected in that issued for the afterlife, and after 1945 the majority of Hell banknotes were issued in denominations of $10,000 or higher. These earlier issues more commonly depict landscape scenes, temples or trains, and the numerous varieties may literally number into the millions.\n\nModern Hell bank notes are known for their large denominations, ranging from $10,000 to several billions. The obverse usually bears an effigy of the Jade Emperor, the presiding monarch of heaven in Taoism; his signature, romanised as \"Yu Wong\" or \"Yuk Wong\"; and the countersignature of Yanluo, King of Hell (). There is usually an image of the Bank of Hell on the reverse of the notes.\n\nA commonly sold Hell bank note is the $10,000 note that is styled after the old United States Federal Reserve Note. The obverse contains, apart from the portrait of the Jade Emperor, the seal of the Bank of Hell consisting of a picture of the bank itself. Many tiny, faint \"Hell Bank Note\"s are scattered on the back in yellow. These are sold in packs of 50 to 150, and are wrapped in cellophane.\n\nStores that specialize in selling ritual items, such as the religious goods stores in Malaysia, also sell larger and elaborately decorated notes that have a larger denomination than the usual $10,000 note. Some bills do not portray the Jade Emperor, and portray other famous figures from Chinese mythology instead, such as the Eight Immortals, the Buddha, Yama, or images of dragons. Some even portray famous people who are deceased, such as US President John F. Kennedy, Albert Einstein and Marilyn Monroe.\n\nWhen burning the notes, the notes are placed as a loose bundle, in a manner considered respectful. Alternatively, in some customs, each bank note may be folded in a specific way before being tossed into the fire because of the belief that burning real money brings bad luck.\n\nWhile the custom of burning \"hell bank notes\" remains legal in China, the Ministry of Civil Affairs has as of 2006 banned the practice of \"vulgar\" burnt-offerings for the deceased, which include paper \"\"luxury villas, sedan cars, mistresses, and other messy sacrificial items\"\", as well as Viagra and simulated models of \"karaoke hostesses\" and \"Supergirls\" based on the hit TV contest \"Mengniu Supergirl\", according to the Ministry, in effort to eradicate \"feudal\" and superstitious behavior.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2135111", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2135111", "title": "VTech CreatiVision", "text": "VTech CreatiVision\n\nThe Video Technology CreatiVision is a hybrid computer and home video game console introduced by VTech in 1981 and released in 1982. The hybrid unit was similar in concept to computers such as the APF Imagination Machine, the older VideoBrain Family Computer, and to a lesser extent the Intellivision game console and Coleco Adam computer, all of which anticipated the trend of video game consoles becoming more like low-end computers.\n\nThe CreatiVision was distributed in many European countries, including most German-speaking countries like West Germany, Austria and Switzerland and also Italy and Sweden, South Africa, in Israel under the Educat 2002 name, as well as in Australia and New Zealand under the Dick Smith Wizzard name. Other names for the system (all officially produced by VTech themselves) include the FunVision Computer Video Games System, Hanimex Rameses (both released in Australia and New Zealand) and VZ 2000 (planned for release in France, likely unreleased). All CreatiVision and similar clones were designed for use with PAL standard television sets, except the Japanese CreatiVision (distributed by Cheryco) which was NTSC and is nowadays much sought after by collectors. However, the US release was planned but never sold efficiently.\nThe CreatiVision console sported an 8-bit Rockwell 6502 CPU at a speed of 2 MHz, 1KB of RAM and 16KB of Video RAM, and had a graphics resolution of 256 × 192 with 16 colors and 32 sprites. The console had two integrated joystick/membrane keypad controllers (much like the ColecoVision and Atari 5200) which, when set in a special compartment on top of the console, could be used as a computer keyboard. The CreatiVision had interfaces for a cassette player, an extra rubber keyboard, parallel I/O interface, floppy disk drive and modem (likely unreleased) and one memory expansion module for use with the Basic language cartridge. Any Centronics-compatible printer could be connected to the I/O module if present.\n\nThe CreatiVision was discontinued in late 1985/early 1986.\n\nA computer was produced by VTech in 1984-1986, based on CreatiVision hardware and was compatible with most of its games: Laser 2001, which is also sold in West Germany and was brought to France.\nIt was also available in Finland through Salora, with the name of Manager. The Manager had a Finnish keyboard layout and character set.\n\nA module allowing to play ColecoVision games were designed for use with the CreatiVision Mark-2 model (a later revision of the 1st model, incorporating hardware changes specifically designed to make the Coleco-module work). Before being produced, the module was modified internally and released for use on the Laser 2001 and Salora computers only. A special adaptor (homebrew) would be needed to make the Coleco-module work on the CreatiVision Mark-2.\n\nIn some regions, the console and its games were distributed by different companies, such as Cheryco in Japan, and Hanimex in Australia. VTech reissued several previous existing games in 1985.\n\nThere were titles known to have been released.\n\n"}
{"id": "2135119", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2135119", "title": "Laura Bailey (model)", "text": "Laura Bailey (model)\n\nLaura Bailey (6 August 1972) is an English model and writer. Born in London, England, she has modelled campaigns for Guess jeans, L'Oreal, Jaguar, Jaeger, Marks and Spencer, Bella Freud, Radley and Temperley London. Bailey also works as a writer and has written for \"Vogue\", \"Harper's Bazaar\", \"Vanity Fair\", \"Glamour\", \"The Independent\", \"The Daily Telegraph\" and \"The Sunday Times\". She is a Cultural Ambassador for the British Fashion Council and an Ambassador for Oxfam. In September 2011, Bailey was announced as a contributing editor to British \"Vogue\". She also writes a blog for Vogue.co.uk.\n\nLaura is Creative Director of jewellery concept label Loquet London that was launched in June 2013 alongside her friend and founder of the label Sheherazade Goldsmith.\n\nLaura has also produced and starred in a number of short films for fashion labels including Bella Freud, Solange Azagury-Partridge, Trager Delaney, and Shrimps.\n\nShe went to Wheatley Park School near Oxford, and later studied English at the University of Southampton, receiving first-class honours.\n\nShe lives in London and has two children with her partner Eric Fellner: a son Luc and a daughter Lola Tiger. She is the daughter of the late Oxford University academic Peter Birks.\n"}
{"id": "2135127", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2135127", "title": "Charles Biro", "text": "Charles Biro\n\nCharles Biro (May 12, 1911 – March 4, 1972) was an American comic book creator and cartoonist. He is today chiefly known for creating the comic book characters Airboy and Steel Sterling, and for his work at Lev Gleason Publications on \"Daredevil Comics and Crime Does Not Pay.\" \n\nAfter graduating from Stuyvesant High School, Charles Biro studied art at the Brooklyn Museum School of Art and the Grand Central School of Art, and joined the Harry \"A\" Chesler Shop c. 1936. Working in the multiple roles of writer, artist and later supervisor at one of the earliest comics packaging art studios, Biro moved from the Chesler Shop in 1939 to take up similar roles at MLJ Comics.\n\nBiro worked as artistic supervisor (as well as writer and artist) for MLJ until 1941, writing and drawing such characters as Steel Sterling (a character he created) and Sgt. Boyle, before moving to Lev Gleason Publications, for whom he would work for the next 15 years.\n\nWhile working for Gleason, Biro held the roles of editorial director, head writer and cover artist. According to comics historians Jerry Bails and Hames Ware, Biro did not do much, if any, interior artwork after 1942, focusing solely on covers.\n\nFor Gleason, he produced a number of titles, among them (with Bob Wood) Chuck \"Crimebuster\" Chandler, who appeared in \"Boy Comics\" (1942–1956). Chandler is described by Joe Brancatelli as \"a hero, yes, but first a boy... arguably the best-handled boy's adventure feature ever to appear in comics.\" Later, he marketed \"the first full adult comic book, \"Tops\", a 1949 experiment in full color and standard magazine size\" (which lasted two issues, July and September 1949).\n\nAlthough Biro's most important work for Gleason was arguably in the nascent genre of crime comics , he is perhaps more widely known, however, for his lengthy work on one of Gleason's longest-running titles, producing a landmark run on the first hero to take the name \"Daredevil\" (no relation to the Marvel Comics character of the same name). Although primarily by this point in his career a writer and cover artist, Biro drew much of the first issue of \"Daredevil Comics\" (the character had launched in the pages of \"Silver Streak\" #6 (September 1940)) titled \"Daredevil Battles Hitler\" #1 (July 1941). Biro would stay with the title for the rest of his time working for Gleason, and make the character one of the most acclaimed of the Golden Age. The title is described as:\n\nJoe Brancatelli, in Maurice Horn's \"The World Encyclopedia of Comics\" described the pre-Biro \"Daredevil\" as \"Gleason's top seller and a fine superhero concept in its own right... created by Don Rico and Jack Binder\", swiftly taken over by Biro, who then performed a \"miraculous job\" with the title, through which his \"real talent became known.\" The Lambiek \"Comiclopedia\" similarly calls Biro's \"guiding of <nowiki>'</nowiki>\"Daredevil\"<nowiki>'</nowiki>\" \"[o]ne of his most impressive feats.\"\n\nBiro was joined by writer-artist Basil Wolverton and Dick Briefer in \"Daredevil Comics\". In issue #13 (October 1942) Biro introduced the \"Little Wise Guys,\" echoing such junior characters as the Jack Kirby-created Newsboy Legion for DC Comics. The Wise Guys comprised Curly, Jocko, Peewee, Scarecrow and Meatball, with Meatball meeting an early death—\"a rare moment in comics of the days.\" By the late 1940s, with superheroes going out of fashion, the Little Wise Guys took center stage, and \"Daredevil unmasked and became a mentor to the kids, who eventually pushed the title character out of his own comic book.\" After writing the adventures of Daredevil between 1941 and 1950, with issue #70 (January 1950), Biro continued to write \"Little Wise Guys\" stories until the series ended with issue #134 (September 1956).\n\nAmong his work for other companies, was the comic strip \"Goodbyland\" in 1938, and \"Block & Fall\" for Centaur Comics (1938). He produced work for Henle and Fiction House in the mid to late 1930s and co-created the character of Airboy for Hillman Periodicals in 1941. Debuting in the second issue of \"Air Fighters Comics\" (November 1942), Airboy (with artist Al Camy and scripter Dick Wood) was to be one of Biro's most enduring creations, and has been resurrected several times since the character's demise (with Hillman) in 1953, after a run of over 100 issues, during which time \"Air Fighters Comics\" was renamed \"Airboy Comics\" (December 1945).\n\nIn October 1955, he wrote and illustrated the first of around 13 issues of a weekly humor book entitled \"Poppo of the Popcorn Theatre\" for Fuller, which was \"virtually ignored.\"\n\nFor Lev Gleason, Biro helped to create the Crime comics genre with the landmark title \"Crime Does Not Pay\" (1942–1955), which he edited along with Bob Wood. The title had an instant effect on the marketplace, and is described in \"The Comic Buyer's Guide Standard Catalog of Comic Books\" as \n\"the comic book that got the entire crime comics genre rolling—and may have unwittingly contributed to the formation of the Comics Code years later.\"\n\n\"Usually regarded as the comic book industry's first crime title,\" the series started with \"Crime Does Not Pay\" #22 (July 1942), carrying on the numbering from \"Silver Streak Comics\" #21. The landmark title was the result of bar talk between Biro and Wood (both alumni of the Harry \"A\" Chesler Shop), who worked together regularly.\n\nPart of \"the allure of the series\" was due to Biro's narrator, \"Mr. Crime\" (a prototype for the more famous EC Comics \"GhouLunatic\" trio).\n\nThe series immediately spawned a plethora of imitators, but \"[t]hroughout its run, \"Crime Does Not Pay\" was always the best-written, best-illustrated, and best-edited crime title, and it was always the best-selling title, as well.\" Although it can arguably be said to have been a major factor in the comics witchhunts of the 1950s, it is fair to note that it stood apart from its more tawdry imitators:\nIndeed, Brancatelli claims that \"for several years during the late 1940s and early 1950s, \"Boy\", \"Daredevil\" and \"Crime Does Not Pay\" [all Biro-edited and -written titles, largely under Biro covers] were the three best-selling titles in a comic field of over 400 competitors.\"\n\nAfter parting company with Gleason in 1956, Biro \"left the field for television,\" moving into the field of graphic design. He was employed for the last ten years of his life by NBC as a graphic artist between 1962 and 1972. During the late 1960s, he became curious about a comic book convention and walked from NBC over to the convention hotel. When convention staffers realized who he was, he was handed a microphone and spoke spontaneously about his career for 20 minutes.\n\nHe died on 4 March 1972, and was nominated for induction into the Eisner Hall of Fame in both 1998 and 2000, before being formally inducted in 2002.\n\nJoe Brancatelli:\n"}
{"id": "2135130", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2135130", "title": "Chris Frantz", "text": "Chris Frantz\n\nCharton Christopher Frantz (born May 8, 1951) is an American musician and record producer. He is the drummer for both Talking Heads and Tom Tom Club, which he co-founded with wife and Talking Heads bassist Tina Weymouth. In 2002, Frantz was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame as a member of Talking Heads.\n\nBorn in Fort Campbell, Kentucky, Charton Christopher Frantz graduated from Shady Side Academy in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. He studied in the early 1970s at the Rhode Island School of Design, where he met both David Byrne and Weymouth. Byrne and Frantz formed a band called the Artistics, which went on to become Talking Heads, in the winter of 1974. Tina Weymouth, then Frantz's girlfriend, also joined the band while the three were at RISD. Frantz and Weymouth were married in 1977.\n\nFrantz and Weymouth formed Tom Tom Club in 1980 when the Talking Heads went on hiatus due to Byrne's solo efforts. Weymouth, Frantz, and Jerry Harrison reunited as for a one-off album called \"No Talking, Just Head\" in 1996, featuring a rotating cast of vocalists, including Debbie Harry.\n\nHe and Weymouth produced the Happy Mondays' 1992 album, \"Yes Please!\" and the Scottish group Angelfish's self-titled album, in addition to producing multiple albums for Ziggy Marley and the Melody Makers. Frantz and Weymouth also contributed backing vocals and percussion for Gorillaz, the debut album of the band of the same name.\n\nHe is ranked number 12 in \"Stylus Magazine\"'s list of the 50 greatest rock drummers and hosts a monthly radio program, \"Chris Frantz the Talking Head,\" on 89.5 WPKN in Bridgeport, Connecticut.\n\nFrantz and Weymouth are also closely associated with the Compass Point All Stars movement.\n\nFrantz's memoir, \"Remain in Love: Talking Heads, Tom Tom Club, Tina\" will be published in Spring 2020 from St. Martin's Press in the US and Faber and Faber in the UK.\n\n"}
{"id": "2135133", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2135133", "title": "Shaoyang", "text": "Shaoyang\n\nShaoyang (), formerly named Baoqing (Paoking) (), is a prefecture-level city in southwestern Hunan province, China, bordering Guangxi to the south. It has a history of 2500 years and remains an important commercial and transportation city in Hunan. It has a city area and eight suburban counties, with a population of 7.6 million, the largest in Hunan province.\n\nOne of the major forest areas in Hunan, Shaoyang has a forest coverage of 42.7%. The NanShan Pastures is one of the biggest in Southern China which provide dairy products and meat for Hunanese.\n\nShaoyang is home to Shaoyang University. The school is composed of former Shaoyang Normal College and Shaoyang College.\n\nThe Shaoyang dialect of Lou Shao group of dialects of Xiang is generally spoken here.\n\nShaoyang has a monsoon-influenced, four-season humid subtropical climate (Köppen \"Cfa\"), with cool, damp winters, and hot, humid summers. Winter begins relatively dry but not sunny and becomes progressively damper and cloudier; spring brings both the most frequent and heaviest rain of the year. Summer is comparatively sunny, while autumn is somewhat dry. The monthly 24-hour average temperatures ranges from in January to in July, while the annual mean is . The annual precipitation is about .\n\nShaoyang administers three districts, two county-level cities, six counties, and one autonomous county.\n\nDistricts:\n\nCounty-level City:\n\nCounties:\nAutonomous county: \n\nAccording to the Sixth National Census in 2010, Shaoyang's permanent residence population of 7,071,741 ranked it 2nd out of 14 prefecture-level divisions of Hunan; the male-female ratio was 107.95 to 100. Educational attainment levels were as follows: 4.49% bachelor's or higher, 60.01% middle school () or higher, and the illiteracy rate was 3.24%. There were 1,950,605 households in which 6,913,913 resided, forming 97.77% of the provincial population and resulting in an average of 3.54 persons/household. Age distribution was as follows: 1,512,664 (21.39%) ≤14 years, 4,862,468 (68.76%) 15−64 years, 696,609 (9.85%) 65+ years.\n\nThe current CPC Party Secretary of Shaoyang is Gong Congmi and the current Mayor is Liu Shiqing.\n\nShaoyang has four main railway station: Shaoyang Railway Station () (Fast Train, K and Highspeed train, G), Shaoyang Railway Station () (Old, North, Freight), (Fast Train, K and Highspeed train, G) and Shaoyang North railway station, in Xinshao County (Highspeed train, G and D). The and Shanghai–Kunming high-speed railway pass through Shaoyang.\n\nShaoyang Wugang Airport was opened on 28 June 2017. It is located north of Wugang, a county-level city under the administration of Shaoyang, and from the urban center of Shaoyang.\n\nThe airport has a 2,600-meter runway and a 3,000-square-meter terminal building. It is projected to handle 250,000 passengers and 500 tons of cargo annually by 2020.\n\n</div>\n\nAlthough it is, by 2010 Census permanent resident population, the second-largest prefecture-level division of Hunan, its GDP (4.62% of provincial output) places it ninth within the province, making it an archetypal example of a large-population, relatively backwards-economy city. The GDP per capita of 12,797 CNY is the lowest in the province, and is only 42.9% of the provincial average, 36.5% of the national average, and 78% of even Guizhou's corresponding figure. Primary, secondary, and tertiary sectors respectively accounted for 23.9%, 38.2%, and 37.9% of the economy.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2135139", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2135139", "title": "After Virtue", "text": "After Virtue\n\nAfter Virtue is a book on moral philosophy by the philosopher Alasdair MacIntyre. MacIntyre provides a bleak view of the state of modern moral discourse, regarding it as failing to be rational, and failing to admit to being irrational. He claims that older forms of moral discourse were in better shape, particularly singling out Aristotle's moral philosophy as an exemplar. \"After Virtue\" is among the most important texts in the recent revival of virtue ethics.\n\nThe book was first published in 1981 and has since gone through two subsequent editions, which have added to, but not changed, the original text. The second edition, published in 1984, adds a postscript replying to critics of the first edition; the third edition, published in 2007, contains a new prologue entitled \"\"After Virtue\" After a Quarter of a Century\".\n\nMacIntyre holds that \"After Virtue\" makes seven central claims. It begins with an allegory suggestive of the premise of the science-fiction novel \"A Canticle for Leibowitz\": a world where all sciences have been dismantled quickly and almost entirely. MacIntyre asks what the sciences would look like if they were re-assembled from the remnants of scientific knowledge that survived the catastrophe. \n\nHe claims that the new sciences, though superficially similar to the old, would in fact be devoid of real scientific content, because the key suppositions and attitudes would not be present. \"The hypothesis which I wish to advance,\" he continues, \"is that in the actual world which we inhabit the language of morality is in the same state of grave disorder as the language of natural science in the imaginary world which I described.\" Specifically, MacIntyre applies this hypothesis to advance the notion that the moral structures that emerged from the Enlightenment were philosophically doomed from the start because they were formed using the aforementioned incoherent language of morality. MacIntyre claims that this failure encompasses the work of many significant Enlightenment and post-Enlightenment moral philosophers, including Søren Kierkegaard, Karl Marx, Immanuel Kant, and David Hume. These philosophers \"fail because of certain shared characteristics deriving from their highly specific historical background.\" That background is the Enlightenment's abandonment of Aristotelianism, and in particular the Aristotelian concept of teleology. \n\nAncient and medieval ethics, argues MacIntyre, relied wholly on the teleological idea that human life had a proper end or character, and that human beings could not reach this natural end without preparation. Renaissance science rejected Aristotle's teleological physics as an incorrect and unnecessary account, which led Renaissance philosophy to make a similar rejection in the realm of ethics. But shorn of teleology, ethics as a body of knowledge was expurgated of its central content, and only remained as, essentially, a vocabulary list with few definitions and no context. With such an incomplete framework on which to base their moral understanding, the philosophers of the Enlightenment and their successors were doomed from the beginning.\n\nMacIntyre illustrates this point through an example of a people who, he argues, experienced a similar incoherence in their own moral and ethical tradition: the Polynesian people of the South Pacific and their taboos. King Kamehameha II removed the taboos of the people in order to modernize their society and met little if any resistance. The Polynesians had no issue with abandoning their long-standing cultural traditions and MacIntyre claims this is because the taboos, though once meaningful to the islanders, had been shorn over the centuries of their underlying spiritual and didactic purpose, becoming a set of arbitrary prohibitions. The fact that Kamehameha II could abolish them so easily and without opposition is evidence, MacIntyre argues, of their incoherence. A similar incoherence, he argues, bedevils the ethical project since the Enlightenment.\n\nAnother reason MacIntyre gives for the doomed nature of the Enlightenment is the fact that it ascribed moral agency to the individual. He claims this made morality no more than one man's opinion and, thus, philosophy became a forum of inexplicably subjective rules and principles. The failure of the Enlightenment Project, because of the abandonment of a teleological structure, is shown by the inadequacy of moral emotivism, which MacIntyre believes accurately reflects the state of modern morality.\n\nMacIntyre offers a critique of Friedrich Nietzsche, whom he calls the \"King Kamehameha II of the European tradition,\" in reference to the Polynesian allegory above. MacIntyre explains that, \"Nietzschean man, the Übermensch, [is] the man who transcends, finds his good nowhere in the social world to date, but only that in himself which dictates his own new law and his own new table of the virtues.\" Although he disagreed with Nietzsche's inegalitarian and elitist view of humankind, he acknowledged the validity of Nietzsche's critique of Enlightenment morality as an explanation of the latter's degeneration into emotivism, and that, like Kamehameha II, Nietzsche had identified the moral imperatives of his time as arbitrary and incoherent in demanding their abolition. \n\nThe nineteenth-century critic who has most lastingly and profoundly influenced MacIntyre is not Nietzsche but Marx—indeed, \"After Virtue\" originates in MacIntyre's plans to write a book repairing the moral weaknesses of Marxism. His critique of capitalism, and its associated liberal ideology and bureaucratic state (including what, in \"After Virtue\", he condemned as the state capitalism of the USSR) is not expressed in traditional Marxist terms. Instead, it is written as a defence of ordinary social \"practices\", and of the \"goods internal to practices\". Pursuit of these helps to give narrative structure and intelligibility to our lives, but these goods must be defended against their corruption by \"institutions\", which pursue such \"external goods\" as money, power and status (chapters 14-15).\n\nMacIntyre seeks to find an alternative to Nietzsche's philosophy and eventually concludes that only classic Aristotelian thought can hope to save Western humanity. While Nietzsche seems to include the Aristotelian ethics and politics in his attack on the \"degenerate disguises of the will to power,\" MacIntyre claims that this cannot be done due to important differences between the structure and assumptions of Aristotelian and post-Enlightenment philosophy. These include:\n\nMacIntyre opposes Nietzsche's return to the aristocratic ethics of Homeric Greece with the teleological approach to ethics pioneered by Aristotle. Nietzsche's critique of Enlightenment moral theory does not work against a teleological ethics. For MacIntyre, \"Nietzsche replaces the fictions of the Enlightenment individualism, of which he is so contemptuous, with a set of individualist fictions of his own.\" Nietzsche's Uebermensch, his solution to the lies of the Enlightenment, exposes the failure of the Enlightenment's epistemological project and of its search for a subjective yet universal morality. Nietzsche neglects the role of society in the formation and understanding of tradition and morality, and \"Nietzsche's great man cannot enter into relationships mediated by appeal to shared standards or virtues or goods; he is his own only moral authority and his relationships to others have to be exercises of that authority... it will be to condemn oneself to that moral solipsism which constitutes Nietzschean greatness.\"\n\n\"After Virtue\" ends by posing the question 'Nietzsche or Aristotle?', although MacIntyre acknowledges that the book does not give sufficient grounds for a definitive answer that it is Aristotle, not Nietzsche, who points to the best solution for the problems that the book has diagnosed. Those grounds are set out in MacIntyre's subsequent works, in which he elaborates a sophisticated revision of the philosophical tradition of Aristotelianism.\n\nIn the end, however, MacIntyre tells us that we are waiting not for Godot but for Benedict of Nursia. MacIntyre criticizes individualist political philosophy, such as John Rawls' \"A Theory of Justice\" and Robert Nozick's \"Anarchy, State, and Utopia\". To MacIntyre, morals and virtues can only be comprehended through their relation to the community in which they come from. Whereas Rawls tells us to conceive of justice through abstracting ourselves from who we are (through the veil of ignorance, for example) MacIntyre disagrees. Running throughout \"After Virtue\" is the belief that in order to comprehend who we are, we must understand where we come from.\n\nThe critic George Scialabba found \"After Virtue\" to be a strong critique of modernity, but claimed that MacIntyre \"faltered\" at the conclusion of the argument, when he sketched the features of what virtuous life should be like in the conditions of modernity. In particular, Scialabba objected to MacIntyre's claim that the good life for human beings consists in contemplating the good life for human beings; Scialabba found this insufficient and anticlimactic. Scialabba also argued that, although he appreciated MacIntyre's insistence on participation in community life as the best defense against the perils of modernity, this insistence was not justified with any discussion of how community life can be reconciled with the critical spirit that Scialabba finds to be one of the great achievements of modernity and of the philosophical enterprise.\n\nIn a review for \"Political Theory\", William E. Connolly argues that MacIntyre sees Nietzsche as \"the adversary to be defeated, but Nietzsche's voice is not heard clearly\". Connolly objects that MacIntyre's defense of virtue does not take into account Nietzsche's critique; MacIntyre also fails to build an account of \"telos\" that does not draw on biology in the way MacIntyre wanted to avoid—such a theory doesn't account for the fact that we are embodied.\n\nAnthony Ellis, in the journal \"Philosophy\", argued that MacIntyre's positive philosophical project is not explained as well as it could have been: it is \"of daunting opacity, though tantalizingly interesting\" but not given enough space in the book. Ellis also states that the discussion of Rawls and Nozick in \"After Virtue\" \"is slight and assertive\".\n\nIn the \"Review of Metaphysics\", Christos Evangeliou said that if the reader \"had expected to find in this book concretely how a revived Aristotelian tradition is supposed to work in order to shape ethically and rationally the irrational and disorderly modern world\", they \"may be a little disappointed in their expectations\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2135145", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2135145", "title": "Kerry Joseph", "text": "Kerry Joseph\n\nKerry Tremaine Joseph (born October 4, 1973) is an American former Canadian football quarterback. He was born in New Iberia, Louisiana.\n\nJoseph was named the CFL's Most Outstanding Player in 2007 while leading the Saskatchewan Roughriders to victory in the 95th Grey Cup. At the end of the season, he had completed 267 of 459 passes for 4002 yards and 24 touchdowns. He also led all quarterbacks in the league in rushing with 737 yards on 90 attempts and 13 touchdowns. On March 5, 2008, the Roughriders traded him to the Argonauts.\n\nIn college Joseph played quarterback for McNeese State University, leading his team to a 42–11 record and two Southland Conference titles during four seasons as a starter.\n\nSubsequently, Joseph spent the 1996 season with the Cincinnati Bengals, played for the London Monarchs of the World League in 1997, and tried out as a slotback for the Washington Redskins. In 1998, Joseph played for the Rhein Fire of NFL Europe, where he won the World Bowl Championship. He then was picked up by the Seattle Seahawks where he played safety for four years until being released in 2002.\n\nJoseph then headed to Canada to try his luck at finally playing quarterback as a professional. He was acquired as a free agent by the Ottawa Renegades in 2003 and during that season unseated incumbent Dan Crowley for the starting job. In the last game of the 2005 season, a victory over the division-leading Toronto Argonauts, Joseph became only the third (after Damon Allen and Tracy Ham) quarterback in Canadian Football League history to garner over 1000 rushing yards in a single season, finishing with 1006.\n\nThe Renegades suspended operations, but on April 12, 2006, Joseph was selected first overall by Saskatchewan in the Ottawa Renegades dispersal draft.\n\nOn November 25, 2007, Joseph won the Grey Cup for the first time in his career, winning 23–19 over the Winnipeg Blue Bombers. On November 29, 2007, he was announced as the first ever CFLPA Pro Player of the Year after fan voting during Grey Cup week.\n\nJoseph was traded from the Saskatchewan Roughriders to the Toronto Argonauts on March 5, 2008, along with 2010 third round draft pick in exchange for offensive tackle Glenn January, defensive lineman Ronald Flemons, the Argos' 2008 first-round pick and a 2010 second-round selection.\n\nAfter being traded to the Argos, Joseph struggled with the team, being knocked out of the playoffs for the two seasons that he played there.\n\nOn February 21, 2010, Joseph was released by the Argos along with fellow quarterback Cody Pickett and linebacker Zeke Moreno.\n\nOn October 25, 2010, Joseph was signed by the Edmonton Eskimos to a practice roster agreement after speculation that starting quarterback Ricky Ray would sit out the final two games of the 2010 CFL season.\n\nOn December 16, 2010, it was announced that Joseph had been released by the Eskimos.\n\nOn January 25, 2011, it was announced that Joseph had been hired as a personal trainer at Cross Gates Athletic Club in Slidell, Louisiana.\n\nJune 8, 2011: Signed with the Edmonton Eskimos.\n\n2012 Season: After starting quarterback Steven Jyles went down with an injury, Joseph started 3 games and threw for 1286 yards with 9 touchdowns and 6 interceptions.\n\nOn January 28, 2014, Joseph announced his retirement from pro football.\n\nJoseph was the Program Director of Parisi Speed School in Slidell, La after retiring.\n\nOn October 7, 2014, it announced by the Saskatchewan Roughriders that he was coming out of retirement to return to his former team. Prior to his resigning with the Roughriders, Joseph had been working as a coaching intern with the New Orleans Saints. Joseph made his first start of the season against the Edmonton Eskimos on October 19, 2014. Joseph had been a member of the Eskimos organization until the end of the 2013 season and retired in early 2014. Joseph played in 2 more regular season games for the Roughriders and 1 playoff game. In said playoff game Joseph struggled, throwing 5 interceptions on 17 pass attempts for a passer rating of 45.8.\n\nOn December 5, 2014, Joseph announced his retirement from the CFL as a Saskatchewan Roughrider.. \n\nIn August 2019, Joseph was inducted in the Saskatchewan Roughriders Plaza of Honour. \n\nKerry Joseph, returned to McNeese to serve as co-offensive coordinator and coach the wide receivers in 2016. In 2018, his positional responsibilities shifted from wide receivers to quarterbacks in 2018, maintaining co-offensive coordinator duties as well. His coaching experience includes a pair of NFL Training Camp internships as well, one with the Saints (2014), and the other with the Buccaneers (2017).\n\nKerry was named Interim Head Coach in November 2018, following the termination of head coach, Lance Guidry following a 6-5 campaign.\n\nKerry joined the Southeastern Louisiana football coaching staff in March 2019 as Running Backs coach/Passing Game Coordinator.\n\n"}
{"id": "2135157", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2135157", "title": "R. W. Bradford", "text": "R. W. Bradford\n\nRaymond William \"Bill\" Bradford (September 20, 1947 – December 8, 2005), who used R. W. Bradford as his pen name, was an American writer chiefly known for editing, publishing, and writing for the libertarian magazine \"Liberty\".\n\nBradford was born on September 20, 1947, in Detroit, Michigan. He was the son of Raymond Bradford and Eleanor Ritter Bradford.\n\nHe edited his first periodical, a short-lived mimeographed zine called \"Eleutherian Forum\", while a teenager.\n\nDuring the 1970s he developed a prosperous precious metals and numismatic business in Lansing, Michigan, Liberty Coin Service. He partially retired in 1980, moving to Port Townsend, Washington with his wife.\n\nFor \"Liberty\", which he started in 1987, he wrote under his own name as well as several pseudonyms: as \"Chester Alan Arthur\" he engaged in political reportage and commentary, and as \"Ethan O. Waters\" he wrote deliberately provocative philosophical criticism and essays. (\"Ethan O. Waters\" was an anagram for \"Owen Hatteras\", a pseudonym used by H. L. Mencken, a writer and editor much admired by Bradford.) \"Liberty\" magazine has been one of the longest-running libertarian journals ever published, and along with \"Reason\" magazine can be considered a giant in libertarian media.\n\nBradford was a consequentialist who favored a pragmatic approach to libertarian philosophy, grounding his limited government beliefs in a view of individual rights as social constructs, rather than a result of natural law. This approach differentiated Bradford from many other libertarian writers, as well as Ayn Rand. Bradford, however, was extremely tolerant of differences of opinion, and often published articles and essays by those with whom he disagreed; despite being against the war machine and opposed to the Iraq War, Bradford published articles written by proponents of the war. Many libertarian writers found a home at \"Liberty\" magazine, and the monthly continues to be edited and published by his good friend, Stephen Cox, and Bradford's widow, Kathy.\n\nIn later years, Bradford became notable for his published criticisms of the Libertarian Party, whom he viewed as excessively didactic and electorally ineffective. He also reported upon what he viewed as financial mismanagement and cronyism by Libertarian Party officials. His criticism of the Libertarian Party's misuse of funds and ineffectual strategies often came into conflict with other libertarians, but his expose of financial mismanagement and cronyism is credited, along with the campaign of Michael Badnarik, with saving the Libertarian Party from disaster.\n\nHe died of kidney cancer on December 8, 2005 in Port Townsend, Washington, aged 58.\n\n"}
{"id": "2135175", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2135175", "title": "Marple Aqueduct", "text": "Marple Aqueduct\n\nMarple Aqueduct (also known as Goyt Aqueduct) at Marple, Greater Manchester, in north-west England was built to carry the lower level of the Peak Forest Canal across the River Goyt (treated as part of the River Mersey until 1896).\n\nThe company's engineer, Benjamin Outram, was responsible for the design and Thomas Brown, the resident engineer, for its construction. The construction contract was placed with William Broadhead, Bethel Furness and William Anderson in 1795. Furness died later in 1795, so the aqueduct was completed by the remaining partners in 1799, but not brought into use until 1800. Seven men lost their lives during its construction.\nIt is the highest canal aqueduct in England and the highest masonry-arch aqueduct in Britain. The difference in water levels in the river and canal is some 90 feet (27.4m) (exceeded only by the Pontcysyllte aqueduct, an iron trough carried on stone columns, where the difference is 126 feet (38.4m)). It contains some 8,000 cubic yards (6,000 m³) of masonry. The three semi-circular arches are about 78 feet (23.8m) above water level, with spans of approximately 60 feet (18.3m) at 72 feet (22m) centres. The lower parts are of red sandstone from the nearby Hyde Bank quarry. The upper parts are of white stone from a quarry at Chapel Milton. The abutments widen in well-proportioned curves and batter or diminish upwards in the same manner. The skilful use of architectural features, such as the circular piercing of the spandrels, string courses, arch rings and pilasters of ashlar stone, oval piers and stone of different type and colour have created a graceful structure, which is superlative in its class.\n\nIn 1860, damage caused by repeated frost heave after water leaked through the puddling of the trough had to be urgently repaired by Charles Sacré, chief engineer of the Manchester, Sheffield and Lincolnshire Railway, which then owned the canal. He tied together the two faces above the central arch by 2-inch bolts through the structure, secured by the plates that can still be seen. A hundred years later, a similar problem was ignored by British Waterways (BW) and on the night of 9 January 1962 the outer face of the north-east arch collapsed. BW, supported by the Ministry of Transport, thought that it would be \"a complete waste of money\" to do other than demolish the aqueduct and formally close the lower Peak Forest and Ashton Canals. However, it was saved by the intervention of Geoffrey Rippon, the Minister of Public Buildings and Works, who facilitated an agreement whereby a sympathetic Cheshire County Council funded the extra cost of full restoration, over and above what it would have cost BW to demolish it, under the terms of the Local Authorities (Historic Buildings) Act 1962, which Rippon himself had steered through Parliament. The main contractor for the restoration was Harry Fairclough Ltd of Warrington, with Rendel, Palmer & Tritton as the consulting engineers.\n\nThe aqueduct was scheduled as an ancient monument soon afterwards and was Grade I listed in 1966. For many years, its picturesque setting in the Goyt valley was obscured by the uncontrolled growth of self-set trees. These have now been cut back to restore the view.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2135190", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2135190", "title": "History of Science Museum, Oxford", "text": "History of Science Museum, Oxford\n\nThe History of Science Museum in Broad Street, Oxford, England, holds a leading collection of scientific instruments from Middle Ages to the 19th century. The museum building is also known as the Old Ashmolean Building to distinguish it from the newer Ashmolean Museum building completed in 1894. The museum was built in 1683, and it is the world's oldest surviving purpose-built museum.\n\nThe museum is open to the general public every afternoon except Mondays, with free admission.\n\nBuilt in 1683 to house Elias Ashmole's collection, it was the world's first purpose-built museum building and was also open to the public. The original concept of the museum was to institutionalize the new learning about nature that appeared in the 17th century and experiments concerning natural philosophy were undertaken in a chemical laboratory in the basement, while lectures and demonstration took place in the School of Natural History, on the middle floor. Ashmole's collection was expanded to include a broad range of activities associated with the history of natural knowledge and in 1924 the gift of Lewis Evans' collection allowed the museum further improvement, becoming the \"Museum of the History of Science\" and appointing Robert Gunther as its first curator.\n\nThe collection and the building itself now occupies a special position in the study of the history of science and in the development of western culture and collecting.\nOne of the most iconic objects in the collection is Einstein's Blackboard that Albert Einstein used on 16 May 1931 in his lectures while visiting the University of Oxford, rescued by dons including and E. J. Bowen and Gavin de Beer.\n\nThe current collection contains around 18,000 objects from antiquity to the early 20th century, representing almost all aspects of the history of science and is used for both academic study and enjoyment by the visiting public.\nThe museum contains a wide range of scientific instruments, such as quadrants, astrolabes (the most complete collection in the world with c.170 instruments), sundials, early mathematical instruments (used for calculating, astronomy, navigation, surveying and drawing), optical instruments (microscopes, telescopes and cameras), equipment associated with chemistry, natural philosophy and medicine, and a reference library regarding the history of scientific instruments that includes manuscripts, incunabula, prints and printed ephemera, and early photographic items.\n\nThe museum shows the development of mechanical clocks. Lantern clocks and longcase clocks are exhibited in the Beeson Room, named after the antiquarian horologist Cyril Beeson (1889–1975) who gave his collection to the museum. Early turret clocks are exhibited above the stairs from the basement to the raised ground floor.\n\nFrom October 2009 until February 2010, the Museum hosted the first major exhibition of Steampunk art objects, curated by Art Donovan and presented by Dr Jim Bennett, then the museum director.\n\nThe museum is also home to the Rochester Avionic Archive, which includes a collection of avionics that originated with the Elliot Brothers, but also includes pieces from Marconi and BAE Systems.\n\nThe following have been Curator or Secretary to the Committee or Director at the museum:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2135198", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2135198", "title": "Loso", "text": "Loso\n\nLoso (Thai: โลโซ) were a Thai rock band fronted by singer–guitarist–composer Seksan Sukpimai (aka Sek Loso). The band was formed in 1994 in Bangkok, Thailand. Its name is derived from a play on \"hi-so\", Thai slang for socialites and the upper class (from English 'high society'), and is meant to reflect the group's humble origins. It is one of the first Thai bands to achieve success on the international music scene, having played festivals, including South By Southwest and Glastonbury, and to be produced by a Western record producer. The group completed and released their first demo in late 1995. Loso disbanded in 2003, and afterwards, Seksan continued as Sek Loso.\n\nWithin a year of its formation, Sek had written 10 songs. With drummer Kittisak \"Yai\" Khotkam (b. January 22, 1973) and bassist Apirath \"Rath\" Sukkhajitr (b. September 20, 1967), Sek recorded the tracks in a night in late 1995 and sent the demo tape to Asanee Chotikul of the popular Thai rock duo Asanee-Wasan. Called \"Lo Society\", the band's demo tape was released as an album in 1996 on Asanee's indie record label and distributed by GMM Grammy, Thailand's biggest record company. It sold 1.5 million copies.\n\nLoso released eight more albums, each selling at least 1 million copies (\"platinum\" status on the RIAA certification scale), and some selling 3 million copies.\n\nAmong the band's most popular songs is \"Som Sarn\" (Thai: \"ซมซาน\" or \"Hesitant\"), which features an acoustic guitar intro that is widely recognized in Thailand. Another hit was \"Pantip\", with its hook chorus, \"ja mai pai Pantip\" (\"will not go Pantip\" or \"I won't go to Pantip\"). The song is about a man dating a woman and taking her shopping at World Trade Center, MBK Center and Siam Square, but he refuses to take her to Pantip Plaza because his ex-girlfriend has a shop there.\n\nThe band's line up remained stable except for a period where Apirath was replaced by Nattaphon \"Klang\" Suntharaanu. Klang Loso played bass on the Rock & Roll and Losoland albums and toured with the band. Apirath Loso then returned to bass duties with the band until its demise.\n\nJust about all the band's albums are accompanied by the release of a karaoke VCD, featuring music videos of the songs. Through the music videos and his appearance as pitchman for the M-150 brand energy drink, Sek Loso, usually wearing sunglasses, has achieved cultural icon status in Thailand. He even spoofed his celebrity image with a Sek lookalike making a cameo appearance in the 2005 Thai action film, \"Tom-Yum-Goong\". The song that accompanies the M-150 commercials, the ballad \"Teh Yang Thai\" (\"เท่อย่างไทย\"), is another hit.\n\nAfter the release of the 2002 live album \"Loso Concert\", Loso broke up, with Sek Loso becoming a solo act. Kittisak and Apirath formed a new band, Fahrenheit. Sek released his debut solo album, \"7 August\", in 2003 and duetted with veteran string and luk thung star Bird McIntyre, for the 2004 hit album, \"Bird Sek\". The pair played sold-out concerts at Bangkok's Impact Arena.\n\nSek, meanwhile, had aspirations beyond the Thai music scene: In Thai music terminology, he wanted to \"go inter\". He had been reading biographies of his rock idol, Jimi Hendrix, and decided that to achieve international stardom he needed to go to England as Hendrix had. In 2004, he moved to London and enrolled in an ESOL school, and after six months of intensive learning, he could speak English with an upper-class British accent. He began writing songs in English and placed advertisements in \"NME\" for a bass player and drummer to form a new Loso, auditioning prospects by having them perform the entire Hendrix album, \"Are You Experienced\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2135205", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2135205", "title": "Karren Brady", "text": "Karren Brady\n\nKarren Rita Brady, Baroness Brady, (born 4 April 1969) is a British sporting executive, politician, television personality, newspaper columnist, author and novelist. She is the former managing director of Birmingham City F.C. and current vice-chairman of West Ham United F.C.. She is featured in the BBC One series \"The Apprentice\" as an aide to Alan Sugar. She was the Small Business Ambassador to the UK Government under Prime Minister David Cameron.\n\nHer appointment with Birmingham City began in March 1993, when she was 23. In 2002 she became the first woman to hold such a post in the top flight of English football when the team was promoted. She oversaw the company's flotation in 1997, thus becoming the youngest managing director of a UK plc. She left in 2009. In January 2010 she was appointed vice-chairman of West Ham United following Sullivan and Gold's purchasing of the club. Brady is a regular writer for the \"Woman & Home\" magazine and \"The Sun\". She has also published four books including two novels, and her latest title, Strong Woman, published in March 2012 and aimed at inspiring women in business, is a Sunday Times Bestseller. On 22 September 2014, Brady was elevated to the House of Lords as a Conservative life peer, taking the title Baroness Brady.\nOn 17 July 2017, she was appointed by Sir Philip Green to chairman of Taveta, owners of the Arcadia Group.\n\nBrady was brought up in Edmonton, London, and the family house was near the Tottenham Hotspur football ground. Her Irish father, Terry Brady, had made his fortune in printing and property development. Her mother, Rita, is Italian, and she has an older brother, Darren. She attended Salcombe Preparatory School in Southgate until she was 11, followed by Poles Convent, a boarding school in Ware, Hertfordshire, and Aldenham School, Elstree, a boys' school which accepted girls in the sixth form, where she gained four A-levels.\n\nBrady's career began as a trainee at the advertising agency Saatchi & Saatchi having been rejected for a place on a journalism course at Harlow College. Despite the course rejection, Brady said in a 2018 interview that she made a conscious decision not to go to university, as she was keen to get out in the world and make her mark. A year later, on joining the London Broadcasting Company (LBC) as an advertising account executive, she targeted the advertising business of one of her father's largest clients, publisher David Sullivan, owner of the \"Daily Sport\" and the \"Sunday Sport\". Sullivan spent more than £2,000,000 on advertising in six months and was so impressed with Brady that he gave her a job.\n\nSullivan offered her a job with Sport Newspapers, and she became one of his directors at the age of 20. While in Sullivan's employ, Brady spotted an advert in the \"Financial Times\" for the sale of Birmingham City F.C. when the club was in receivership and persuaded Sullivan to buy it and let her run it. When Sullivan commented that she would have to be twice as good as a man to do that, Brady replied quickly: “\"Well that’s not difficult.\"” Sullivan later commented that he agreed to the deal because such a young, female director would attract publicity to the club, and also because Brady was a “sacker”. Brady was 23 when she started work as managing director of Birmingham City F.C. in March 1993. She encountered sexism in the role. The first time she got on the team bus, a player said \"\"I can see your tits from here\"\". Brady replied “\"When I sell you to Crewe, you won't be able to see them from there will you?\"\" She sold the player shortly afterwards.\n\nIn 2008, Sullivan and Brady were arrested by City of London Police, interviewed and released on bail as part of the investigation into the 2006 allegations of corruption in English football, which also involved similar actions against players and officials from other clubs; club chairman David Gold was interviewed as a witness. The club stated that no charges had been brought and that Brady denied any wrongdoing. The investigation involved tax and national insurance offences relating to two players. Gold said that it was \"\"utterly wrong that this highly professional businesswoman has been made a victim in a witch-hunt against football\"\". In August 2009 it was confirmed that no further action would be taken. She left Birmingham City two months later after Sullivan and Gold sold the club to Carson Yeung for £81.5 million. The same month she was appointed as a non-executive director to the England 2018 World Cup bid advisory board.\n\nIn January 2010, she was appointed Vice-Chairman of West Ham United by new Joint-Chairmen David Sullivan and David Gold. Writing in her newspaper column Brady said \"To West Ham fans I'll make a single pledge – while we are on the board, we will hang in the Tower of London before your club again goes through the financial turmoil which so nearly brought it down\". Brady said she liked the idea of changing the club's name to West Ham Olympic. David Gold subsequently said that the club would always be West Ham United under his chairmanship but \"What you might do is call the stadium West Ham Olympic stadium. I can make a case for that.\" Brady was responsible for negotiating a move on behalf of West Ham United from their Boleyn Ground to the Olympic Stadium in Stratford, east London. Initially the intention was for West Ham to take ownership of the stadium, this bid collapsing in October 2011 following a legal delay caused by a rival bid by Tottenham Hotspur. Investigators working on behalf of Tottenham were subsequently charged with fraud for obtaining illegally the private telephone records of Brady. In December 2012, West Ham were announced as the highest ranked bidder to become the anchor concessionaire and tenant of the Olympic Stadium. Of the move Brady said \"\"We are ambitious for our great club and aim to set the benchmark for visiting away and neutral supporters from across the globe to come and enjoy the iconic Stadium and be part of our Premier League club experience\"\".\n\nWest Ham United were named as anchor concessionaires for the Olympic Stadium on 23 March 2013. In July 2013, Brady gave evidence before a House of Lords committee, where she said the club has debts of £70m that would need to be paid before the proposed move to the Olympic Stadium in 2016. Brady oversaw the club's move from the Boleyn Ground to the Olympic Stadium in the summer of 2016. Subsequently renamed as London Stadium, the move saw West Ham United increase their capacity from 35,000 to 57,000 seats – which were completely sold out before the start of the 2016–17 campaign, giving the Club the third biggest home attendance in the Premier League. Following the move to the Olympic Stadium, some supporters who wanted to stay at Upton Park targeted verbal abuse towards Brady and other board members during crowd disturbances during West Ham's home 2–4 defeat to Watford on 10 September 2016. In October 2016, Brady received further criticism after describing West Ham's move to the London Stadium as \"a chance to rebrand the club\". Brady later clarified her comments, made at the Leaders Sport Business Summit, and went on to describe West Ham's move to the new stadium as \"part of our ambitious strategy to take our Club to the very top of the world’s most-popular sport.\" \n\nBrady has also been the chairman of Bauer's Kerrang!, and had a seat on the board of Sport England. She was a non-executive director of Channel 4 television but resigned to take a position at Syco, the company jointly owned by Simon Cowell and Sony. In September 2010 she joined the board of Taveta Investments Ltd. with Sir Philip Green, resigning from a non-executive position with Mothercare where she had been for seven years. She is an Ambassador for Barclays Life skills, which aims to offer young people workplace experience. She is also the Patron of the Life After Stroke Awards and an Ambassador for Well Being for Women.\n\nBrady has long been renowned for championing the cause of women in business. She has repeatedly called upon her fellow female professionals to help those trying to make their way in the business world. She explained in this Guardian column: “Any board executive can forget just how many people helped them get where they are. Those women who have got to the top need actively to ensure there is a pipeline of younger women, whether by networking or mentoring, who in turn is encouraging those below them. Women in the boardroom must not forget how many challenges and difficulties we have overcome, and we should share our coping strategies.\n“It is critical to create opportunities to identify talented women in business, then support them to develop their confidence to aim for the boardroom. We need to look outside the corporate mainstream, at female entrepreneurs and self-employed businesswomen, who can inject different insights and diversity to any board.” \nSimilarly, Brady famously told the Independent: \"If you don't have a woman on your board you should write to your shareholders and explain why. Tell us how many women you've interviewed and what skills they've been lacking, because that will give us some basis to teach the new generation of women in business.\"\n\nBrady was appointed Commander of the Order of the British Empire (CBE) in the 2014 New Year Honours for services to entrepreneurship and women in business.\n\nIn March 2007, Brady appeared as a celebrity contestant on \"Comic Relief Does The Apprentice\" and was team leader for the girls' team, raising more than £750,000 for Comic Relief. In June 2008, Brady was a guest interviewer in series four of \"The Apprentice\" – interviewing the final five. After the show, it was revealed that Brady had fulfilled a promise she made to Lord Alan Sugar on screen, and offered a job to Claire Young, who finished as runner-up in the series, after being impressed by her interview. In 2009 she interviewed candidates again in The Apprentice Season 5, as seen on BBC 1.\nOn 30 August 2009, she was revealed as Sugar's new assistant in the sixth series of The Apprentice, replacing Margaret Mountford, who had left the series (and who returned in series 6, 7, 8 and 9 as a guest interviewer, the same role that Brady had fulfilled in her first appearance in the main UK apprentice series).\n\nBrady hinted that she would be interested in a career in politics in the future during an interview with \"The Daily Telegraph\" in March 2013. In September that year it was reported that she would be giving an introductory speech for the Chancellor of the Exchequer, George Osborne, at the Conservative Party Conference. In an interview with \"The Daily Telegraph\", Margot James, MP, said: \"I think she'd be a great asset. I have a great respect for her success in business.\". The feature also suggested that Brady should be made a peer to bring more women into politics and to resolve the UK's financial problems. ‘But Baroness Brady would be able to make an invaluable contribution to both business and politics. David Cameron should give her a peerage without delay – and she should accept it.’ On 30 September 2013, Brady addressed the Conservative Party Conference in Manchester on the subjects of small businesses and supporting Osborne's policies as Chancellor, and she was also appointed the government's Small Business Ambassador.\n\nOn 8 August 2014, it was reported that Brady would become a Conservative life peer in the House of Lords. On 22 September 2014 she was created Baroness Brady, \"of Knightsbridge in the City of Westminster\". On 26 October 2015, Brady was involved in a controversial House of Lords vote over proposed cuts to tax credits, voting with the Government in favour of the plan.\n\nIn February 2019, \"the Daily Telegraph\" reported that she was facing questioning about her role in non-disclosure agreements (NDAs) relating to allegations of misbehaviour on the part of the businessman Philip Green.\n\nIn 1995, Brady married Canadian footballer Paul Peschisolido, who played for Birmingham City for two seasons, 1992–93 and 1993–94. In 1996, she had her first child, a girl named Sophia. She had around six weeks off work after the birth of her second child, a boy named Paolo. Brady lives in the Knightsbridge area of London with her husband. They also had a property in the village of Knowle in the West Midlands and her husband owned a house in Canada.\n\nIn 2006, Brady underwent a full-body MRI scan as part of a medical screen, which unexpectedly discovered a potentially fatal cerebral aneurysm. Doctors told Brady at the time that she had a 30 per cent chance of dying from the condition, and that it was a miracle that she had survived the births of her two children. In February 2006, she underwent urgent neurosurgery to prevent the aneurysm from rupturing. She made a full recovery, and was back at work about one month later.\nDespite claims that Brady is a supporter of Arsenal, she states on her official website that her footballing loyalties have only ever been with the two clubs she has represented.\n\n"}
{"id": "2135210", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2135210", "title": "Shire of Ngaanyatjarraku", "text": "Shire of Ngaanyatjarraku\n\nThe Shire of Ngaanyatjarraku is a remote local government area in Western Australia near the Northern Territory/South Australian border. It is 1,542 km from Perth.\n\nIt was formed on 1 July 1993 following a report of the Local Government Boundaries Commission in 1992. The Shire of Wiluna was divided with the eastern area becoming the new Shire.\n\nIt is a community of interest within the traditional lands of the Ngaanyatjarra people of the Central Desert of Western Australia. The 99-year leases held by the Ngaanyatjarra Land Council on behalf of the traditional owners also form the boundaries of the Shire of Ngaanyatjarraku.\n\nThe Shire has 560 km of gravel road and is far from bitumen roads.\n\nThe Federal Court of Australia on 29 June 2005 consented to the Native Title claim over approximately 187,700 square kilometres (About the size of Syria) of land in the Central Desert Region in the Shires of Laverton and Ngaanyatjarraku.\n\nNgaanyatjarra is the first language of most residents (65%, see below) with the other language significantly represented being Pitjantjatjara.\n\nThe 2011 ABS Census indicated that the region's 1,437 residents comprised 48.8% males and 84.2% Indigenous Australians.\n\nLike other indigenous Australian communities in the Outback, the Ngaanyatjarraku community has a greater proportion of younger people than the overall Australian population and a lesser proportion of older people, reflected by the median age of 28 years of age compared with 37 Australia-wide.\n\nSome other statistics:\n\n\n\nThe associated Ngaanyatjarra Council operates \n"}
{"id": "2135215", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2135215", "title": "Ryan Larkin", "text": "Ryan Larkin\n\nRyan Larkin (July 31, 1943 – February 14, 2007) was a Canadian animator, artist, and sculptor who rose to fame with the psychedelic Oscar-nominated short \"Walking\" (1968) and the acclaimed \"Street Musique\" (1972). He was the subject of the Oscar-winning film \"Ryan\".\n\nLarkin had idolized his older brother, Ronald, whom he described as \"cool\". In 1958, he and his brother and a girlfriend went boating in a swift current river near home.The girl jumped off the boat midstream to swim but the girl was soon in trouble so Ron jumped off to save her. She did make it back to the boat but sadly Ron did not and drowned while Ryan was in the boat but unable to help him because he had never learned to swim, and stated that his brother's death deeply scarred him.\n\nLarkin attended the Art School of the Montreal Museum of Fine Arts where he studied under Arthur Lismer (a member of the Group of Seven) before starting to work at the National Film Board of Canada in 1962.\n\nLarkin was bisexual, having had sexual and romantic relationships with both women and men during his lifetime.\n\nAt the National Film Board of Canada (NFB), Larkin learned animation techniques from the ground-breaking and award-winning animator Norman McLaren. He made two acclaimed short animated films, \"Syrinx\" (1965) and \"Cityscape\" (1966), before going on to create \"Walking\" (1969). \"Walking\" was nominated for an Academy Award in 1970 in the category \"Best Short Subject, Cartoon\", but lost to \"It's Tough to Be a Bird\" by director Ward Kimball. \"Syrinx\" won many international awards. He went on to direct the award-winning short \"Street Musique\", which premiered in 1972 and would be the last of his works, finished during his lifetime.\n\nHe also contributed art work and animation effects to NFB films including the 1974 feature \"Running Time\", directed by Mort Ransen, in which Larkin also played three bit parts.\n\nIn 1975, the NFB commissioned Larkin to create a mural for the entrance foyer at its Montreal headquarters. He delivered a piece featuring an adolescent boy with an erection, which the NFB removed from viewing.\n\nLarkin left the NFB in 1978.\n\nIn later years Larkin was plagued by a downward spiral of drug abuse, alcoholism and homelessness. By this time estranged from his parents, he had developed a routine of spending his nights at the Old Brewery Mission, and his days panhandling at Schwartz's, eating at Mondo Frites, drinking beer at the Copacabana bar, or reading a book in the lounge at Welch's used book store. Towards the end of his life, he found himself back in the limelight when a 14-minute computer-animated documentary on his life, \"Ryan\", by Canadian animator Chris Landreth, won the Academy Award for Animated Short Film and screened to acclaim at film festivals throughout the world. \"Alter Egos\" (2004), directed by Laurence Green, is a documentary about the making of \"Ryan\" that includes interviews with both Larkin and Chris Landreth as well as with various people who knew Larkin at the peak of his own success.\n\nAs of 2002, Larkin had been working with composer Laurie Gordon of the band Chiwawa on a new animated film entitled \"Spare Change\", his first auteur film since working at the NFB. Together they founded \"Spare Change Productions\" and sought funding for the film through Gordon's production company MusiVision. They received grants from Bravo!FACT, the Canada Council for the Arts and the Conseil des arts et des lettres du Québec and SODEC but were still short of financing. MusiVision and the National Film Board of Canada went into co-production only after Larkin's death. \"Spare Change\" premiered at the Festival du Nouveau Cinema on October 9, 2008. \"Spare Change\" features three CHIWAWA tunes for which Larkin created storyboards and animation, including \"Do It For Me\" from the 2005 release \"Bright\". A new CHIWAWA album \"Bus Stop Chinese Buffet\" will include tracks from \"Spare Change\" including \"Overcast Skies\" whose lyrics were penned by Larkin, and part of a group of Larkin poems - \"Beat Poems For Grandkids\".\n\nMusiVision also produced the documentary film \"Ryan's Renaissance\" for CTV Television about Ryan's final years, his return to creating art, and \"Spare Change\". It was produced by Gordon and Nicola Zavaglia. Larkin, who had panhandled outside Montreal Schwartz's deli, appeared briefly in a documentary on the famous restaurant, \"Chez Schwartz\", directed by Garry Beitel \n\nIn December 2006, Larkin created three five-second bumpers for MTV in Canada, a preview to \"Spare Change\". Each frame was hand-drawn. It was the first professional work he had executed in over 20 years. Larkin said that he had given up some bad habits, including drinking, in order to better focus on his animating career.\n\nLarkin died in Saint-Hyacinthe, Quebec on February 14, 2007 from lung cancer which had spread to his brain.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2135217", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2135217", "title": "Z. D. Mangoaela", "text": "Z. D. Mangoaela\n\nZakea Dolphin Mangoaela (February 1883 in Hohobeng, Cape of Good Hope, South Africa – 25 October 1963) was an African folklorist and writer.\n\nMangoaela grew up in Lesotho (called \"Basutoland\" at the time) and went to the Basutoland Training College.\n\n"}
{"id": "2135222", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2135222", "title": "Shangqiu", "text": "Shangqiu\n\nShangqiu (), alternately romanized as Shangkiu, is a city in eastern Henan province, Central China. It borders Kaifeng to the northwest, Zhoukou to the southwest, and the provinces of Shandong and Anhui to the northeast and southeast respectively. An ancient city with a rich history, Shangqiu was also the first capital of the Shang dynasty. Its population was 7,362,975 inhabitants at the 2010 census whom 1,536,392 lived in the built-up (\"or metro\") area made up of Liangyuan and Suiyang districts.\n\nOnce merely a small village, Shangqiu has grown significantly in recent years. It is important geographically because it lies at a junction of several major railways, making its train station a major regional transportation hub.\n\nThe history of Shangqiu is closely related to the very beginning of Chinese history. The tradition dates back to the Three August Ones and Five Emperors periods (c. 25th century BC), when the semi-legendary Emperors Shennong, Zhuanxu and Ku were said to be living in the present Shangqiu area. The son of Emperor Ku, Qi (), who helped Yu the Great to control floods, was enfeoffed the area of Shang (which is the current day Shangqiu area), who also became the ancestor of the ancient nationality of \"Shang\". It is said that the \"Shang\" people first started trading with neighboring countries by shipping the goods with ox wagons. Since then, people doing business are called \"Shang people\" (), which is still the case now, although people are not likely to know the origin of the words. Shangqiu was also reportedly one of the capitals defended by the Xia emperor Xiang, troubled by rebellions in his reign. The thirteenth generation grandson of Qi (), Tang overthrew the ruling Xia Dynasty and founded the Shang Dynasty, with its first capital at Nanbo (, currently south of Shangqiu). Around the 11th century BC, the Shang Dynasty was replaced by the Zhou Dynasty. The royal descendants of the Shang Dynasty were enfeoffed the area of Shangqiu, which later became the state of Song.\n\nThe city was the southern capital of the Northern Song dynasty under the name Nanjing. Shangqiu was the first in a series of temporary capitals that the Song Dynasty government moved to during their retreat from the north, when most of northern China had been conquered by the Jurchens in the Jin–Song wars. The Song court had retreated south to the city from their original capital in Kaifeng, after it was captured by the Jurchens in the Jingkang Incident of 1127. The court moved to Shangqiu because of its historical importance to Emperor Taizu of Song, the founder of the dynasty, who had previously served in the city as a military governor. The symbolism of the city was meant to secure the political legitimacy of the new Emperor Gaozong, who was crowned emperor of China in Shangqiu on June 12, 1127. The capital was again moved in 1128 to Yangzhou, and finally to Hangzhou in 1129.\n\nUnder the Republic, Shangqiu was considered a key city in eastern Henan owing to its position along the Lunghai (now Longhai) Railway between the port of Haizhou on the East China Sea and Lanzhou in central China. It was known at the time as Kweiteh, , or () and had both a Catholic diocese and an Anglican mission, the later of which ran St Paul's Hospital. It changed hands frequently during the fighting among the Chinese warlords in 1927.\n\nShangqiu is the easternmost prefecture of Henan province. Its administrative area ranges in longitude from 114 °49′ E to 116° 39′ E and in latitude from 33° 43′ N to 34° 52′ N, covering . The city lies on the North China Plain and is mostly flat, with elevations ranging from , though the northwest part of the prefecture is more elevated than the southeast.\n\nShangqiu has a monsoon-influenced humid subtropical climate (Köppen \"Cwa\"), with four distinct seasons. Winters are cool and mostly dry while summers are hot and humid; spring is warm and sees some, but not much rainfall, while autumn weather is crisp and drier. The monthly 24-hour average temperature ranges from around the freezing mark in January to in July, while the annual mean is . Close to two-thirds of the annual precipitation occurs from June to September. The average temperature is below 10 °C for winter, 22 °C for summer, and between 10-22 °C for spring and autumn. Shangqiu City has a long winter, followed by summer, and a significantly shorter spring and autumn.\n\nThe average annual precipitation in the urban area of Shangqiu City has been 711.9 mm, and the corresponding total precipitation is 59.13 million cubic meters. The average annual runoff depth is 76.8 mm and the total runoff is 6.405 million cubic meters.\n\nThe government of Shangqiu is responsible for the making and implementing of local policies. Since agriculture is still a major part of the economy of Shangqiu, many of the work is related to farmers and the development of the rural area. It is also observed that the government is exerting more and more efforts to attract foreign investment to spur local development.\nThe current mayor is Tao Minglun.\n\nAccording to the 2010 Census, Shangqiu has a population of 7,362,472. That is 390,528 inhabitants less than in 2000 (the population shrank 5.04% in ten years).\n\nThe prefecture-level city of Shangqiu administers 2 districts, 1 county-level city and 6 counties. The information here presented uses the metric system and data from 2010 National Population Census.\n\nShangqiu is traditionally a centre of the indigenous Chinese religious cult of Huoshen (火神 \"Fire God\"). An ancient small Temple of the Fire God has been expanded throughout the 2010s to become possibly the biggest temple complex dedicated to the god in China. Moreover, Shangqiu traditionally hosted the headquarters of Liguaism (Li Symbol transmission), the most important denomination of Baguadao.\n\nSituated on the North China Plain, Shangqiu is part of a traditionally agricultural region. The fertile soil and convenient irrigation facilities greatly help the production of crops and other plants. As of 2005, there are about 719,864 hectare planted. The most important agricultural products are wheat, maize, cotton, sesame, vegetables, fruit, tobacco, and livestock. In 2002, it produced about 4.5 million tons of crops, 200 thousand tons of cotton, 1.1 million tons of fruits, and 550 thousand tons of livestock.\n\nCompared with the agriculture, the industry of Shangqiu is relatively less developed. However, since the 1990s, it has experienced rapid growth. The food producing and packing company, Kedi group, has already been the number one exporter of frozen vegetables in the country. The large reserves of coal in Shangqiu (the Yongcheng-Xiayi coal mine is estimated to have a total reserves of 10 billion tons) also boosts up the energy industry, such as electricity generation and aluminium electrolysis.\n\nSince the completion of east-west running Longhai railway in 1916, Shangqiu has been a local transportation center. This standing is greatly enhanced following the construction of the Beijing-Kowloon (Hong Kong) railway in 1996, which crosses with Longhai railway at Shangqiu. Nowadays, Longhai railway has become the Chinese segment of the larger \"European-Asia continental landbridge,\" which runs from the sea port city Lianyungang to Rotterdam, the Netherlands. Shangqiu thus obtains the name of the city of the \"golden cross.\" On the other hand, the road transport is also convenient and getting even better. The east-west direction Lianyungang-Khorghas (Xinjiang) national route 310 and north-south Beijing-Zhuhai national routh 105 also cross at Shangqiu. Highway traffic is fast-developing too. The Shangqiu-Kaifeng \nsegment of the Lianyungang-Khorghas highway is already in use. Future planning for highway construction is also underway.\n\nShangqiu-Hefei-Hangzhou High-speed Railway is under construction, will begin operation in late 2020.\n\nThe education sector of Shangqiu is mainly professional training oriented, with an \nincreasing number of such colleges coming into sight ever since the 1990s.\n\n\nLying in the heart of the North China Plain, Shangqiu benefits from a deep cultural tradition. The first star observatory in China, Ebo Tai, was established in Shangqiu. Yingtian Shuyuan, one of the largest four official education agencies in north Song Dynasty, is located in the Suiyang district of Shangqiu. The Suiyang old city, which was built in 1511 during the Ming Dynasty, is one of the best preserved traditional cities in China, and was enlisted as one of the famous historical cities in China by the central government in 1986. The rich culture also raised many famous cultural figures. Cangjie, the legendary inventor of Chinese characters, was living in Shangqiu in the far-ancient periods. Zhuangzi, the great ancient philosopher of China, was born here around the 4th century BC. Another great philosopher, Mozi, living in the same period as Zhuangzi, was also a Shangqiu native.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2135232", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2135232", "title": "Dynasty (sports)", "text": "Dynasty (sports)\n\nIn sports, a dynasty is a team or individual that dominates their sport or league for an extended length of time. Some leagues maintain official lists of dynasties, often as part of a hall of fame, but in many cases, whether a team or individual has achieved a dynasty is subjective. This can result in frequent topic of debate among sports fans due to lack of consensus and agreement in the many different variables and criteria that fans may use to define a sports dynasty. Merriam-Webster describes a dynasty as a \"sports franchise which has a prolonged run of successful seasons\". Within the same sport, or even the same league, dynasties may be concurrent with each other.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe problems inherent in identifying sports dynasties are exacerbated in NCAA Football Bowl Subdivision, where the national champion is determined, at least in part, by poll rather than through a tournament. These polls, however, are largely based on win-loss records, thereby relying on minimal subjectivity. When fans of a sport cannot agree on which team within a league or other organization should be considered as holding that organization's championship, discussing whether a team has become a dynasty is more difficult. Because of these problems, teams that consistently win their conference championship and are frequently in contention for national championships are termed dynasties more often than a similarly performing team in another sport or division might.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe National Hockey League and the Hockey Hall of Fame officially recognize nine dynasty teams:\n\n\n\nThe Soviet Championship League is now known as the Kontinental Hockey League.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nMost disputes about dynasties relate to teams that dominated within a conference or division, but either failed to win championships or infrequently won championships. This is exacerbated in NCAA Football Bowl Subdivision (formerly Division I-A), where the national champion is determined, at least in part, by poll rather than through a tournament.\n\n\n\n\nThe 1916 and 1917 VFA seasons were cancelled due to World War IThe Football League suspended operations between 1939–40 and 1945–46 inclusive due to World War II and planning difficulties in its aftermath.The Allied conquest of Italy caused normal Serie A football to be suspended between 1943 and 1944 and 1945–46, though the 1946 \"scudetto\" is considered official.\n"}
{"id": "2135243", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2135243", "title": "Peak Forest Tramway", "text": "Peak Forest Tramway\n\nThe Peak Forest Tramway was an early horse- and gravity-powered industrial railway (or tramway) system in Derbyshire, England. Opened for trade on 31 August 1796, it remained in operation until the 1920s. Much of the route and the structures associated with the line remain. The western section of the line is now the route of the Peak Forest Tramway Trail.\n\nThe tramway was originally planned to be about long from Chapel Milton to Dove Holes. However, it was decided to start the tramway at Bugsworth (now called Buxworth) and, as built, it was about long. Its purpose was to carry limestone from the vast quarries around Dove Holes down to Bugsworth Basin via Chapel-en-le-Frith and Chinley, where much of it was taken by boat along the Peak Forest Canal and the Ashton Canal to Manchester and beyond. The remaining limestone was put into lime kilns at Bugsworth where it was converted into quick lime (or burnt lime).\n\nBuilt by Benjamin Outram, the tramway was initially single-track, on a gauge, constructed of stone sleeper blocks and L-section cast-iron rails that were fastened directly onto the blocks, in the same manner as his Little Eaton Gangway built for the Derby Canal. The rails, known as gang rails or plates, were provided by Benjamin Outram and Company who also supplied the mineral waggons.\n\nFrom Bugsworth it rose to Whitehough, then proceeded to Chapel Milton on the level. It then climbed 56½ to the base of the inclined plane, which took the line upwards over a distance of . After a more gentle slope to Barmoor Clough the line proceeded to the Dove Holes quarries.\n\nTo aid acceleration from the top, and braking at the foot, the inclined plane varied from 1 in 6 at the top to 1 in 12 at the base. It was intended to be, at least partly, self-acting with descending wagons counterbalanced to some extent by partly loaded wagons being drawn up. Initially rope was tried, followed by a patent twisted chain, passing round a wheel, with a brake to control it, in a pit at the top. Eventually a chain with links was purchased from Birmingham, which proved more equal to the work. By the beginning of the 20th century this had been replaced by a steel rope.\n\nThere was another small incline of within the quarry complex worked by a horse-gin at the top and a continuous rope.\n\nThe mineral waggons were originally similar to those used for the earlier Little Eaton Gangway, with a substantial wooden chassis with a wrought-iron body held in place by two wooden wedges. The axles were bolted onto axle trees and the cast-iron wheels (about 20 inches in diameter) were held on the axles by a linchpin (known as a \"lily-pin\"). Later the bodies were fixed with a door at the back, unloading by means of a tippler mechanism mounted on a turntable. Each waggon carried between of limestone.\n\nFrom the bottom of the plane to Bugsworth Basin, a team of four horses could draw up to twenty wagons. The ganger and nipper (apprentice), controlling a gang of waggons, rode on the axles and kept the speed at by spragging the wheels to make them skid.\n\nIn 1803 the tramway was made double-track, with the exception of Stodhart Tunnel and below Buxton Road Bridge, using the same method of fixing the rails.\n\nProblems were experienced because the rails became loose, and to overcome these the main line was relaid between 1832 and 1837 using pedestals or saddles placed between the rails and the stone sleeper blocks. Over the years the design of the rails and saddles underwent many modifications and in circa 1865 much of the main line was replaced by L-section steel rails 9 and long rolled at the Gorton Works (Gorton Tank) of the Manchester, Sheffield and Lincolnshire Railway Company.\n\nIn 1846 the MSLR's predecessor, the Sheffield, Ashton-under-Lyne and Manchester Railway, took on a £9,325 a year () perpetual lease of the Peak Forest Canal, including the tramway. The railway became owner of the canal in 1883. The tramway closed in 1920 and its rails and waggons were sold by the LNER.\n\nThe most important surviving features of the tramway are the elevated tramway branch at Bugsworth Basin, Stodhart Tunnel and the self-acting inclined plane at Chapel-en-le-Frith, known as the Chapel inclined plane. The elevated tramway branch forms part of the Scheduled Ancient Monument of Bugsworth Basin. It was believed that the Grade II* listed Stodhart Tunnel was the oldest railway tunnel in the world until archaeological work on the Butterley Gangroad (also in Derbyshire) in May 2013 suggested that Fritchley Tunnel on that line was older than Stodhart Tunnel. A wagon is on display in the York Railway Museum and a wheel and track items at the Narrow Gauge Railway Museum.\n\n"}
{"id": "2135249", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2135249", "title": "Pteridium aquilinum", "text": "Pteridium aquilinum\n\nPteridium aquilinum (bracken, brake or common bracken), also known as eagle fern, is a species of fern occurring in temperate and subtropical regions in both hemispheres. The extreme lightness of its spores has led to its global distribution.\n\nCommon bracken was first described as \"Pteris aquilina\" by Carl Linnaeus, in Volume 2 of his \"Species Plantarum\" in 1753. The origin of the specific epithet derived from the Latin \"aquila\" \"eagle\". In the reprint of the \"Flora Suecica\" in 1755, Linnaeus explains that the name refers to the image of an eagle seen in the transverse section of the root. In spite of this, the opinion has been forwarded that the name pertains to the shape of the mature fronds appearing akin to an eagle's wing. However, medieval scholars, including Erasmus, thought the pattern of the fibres seen in a transverse section of the stipe resembled a double-headed eagle or oak tree. \n\nIt was traditionally treated as the sole species in the genus \"Pteridium\" (brackens); authorities have split and recognised up to 11 species in the genus, however. It was placed in the genus \"Pteridium\" by Friedrich Adalbert Maximilian Kuhn in 1879.\n\nCommon bracken is a herbaceous perennial plant, deciduous in winter. The large, roughly triangular fronds are produced singly, arising upwards from an underground rhizome, and grow to 0.3–1 m (1–3ft) tall; the main stem, or stipe, is up to 1 cm (0.4 in) diameter at the base. It dies back to ground level in autumn.\n\nSporangia are formed in sori on the underside of the frond. They are arranged in narrow brown bands, and form spores over July, August and September.\n\nBracken grows in pastures, deciduous and coniferous woodlands, and hillsides. It prefers acidic soils.\n\nAn adaptable plant, bracken readily colonises disturbed areas. It can even be aggressive in countries where it is native, such as England, where it has invaded heather (\"Calluna vulgaris\" (L.) Hull) stands on the North Yorkshire moors. In Ireland, bracken is found in open woodland and sandy pastures.\n\nBracken is native to Europe, Eastern Asia and North America. In America, it is found throughout the continental United States and the Canadian provinces of Ontario, Quebec, and Newfoundland. Its range's northern border extends to southern Alaska, while its southern reaches the northern portions of Mexico.\n\nBracken is a widely eaten vegetable in Korea, Japan and parts of China.\n\nIn Korea, soaked, parboiled, and stir-fried bracken is often eaten as \"namul\" (seasoned vegetable side dish) or gosari. It is also a classic ingredient of bibimbap.\n\nThe plant contains the carcinogenic compound ptaquiloside. \nHigh stomach cancer rates are found in Japan and North Wales, where the young stems are used as a vegetable, but it is unknown whether bracken plays any part at all. Consumption of ptaquiloside-contaminated milk is thought to contribute to human gastric cancer in the Andean states of Venezuela. The spores have also been implicated as carcinogens.\n\nHowever, ptaquiloside is water soluble, and is reduced by soaking bracken in cool water. It also degenerates at room temperature, which explains why the rat studies were done with the toxin stored at . At boiling temperature, the carcinogen denatures almost completely. Salt and baking soda also help with volatilizing the chemical. Further discussions on the nature of different fern species and their toxicity can be found under at Dion et al. (2015).\n\nIt has been suggested that selenium supplementation can prevent as well as reverse the immunotoxic effects induced by ptaquiloside from \"Pteridium aquilinum\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2135254", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2135254", "title": "All Rise (Blue album)", "text": "All Rise (Blue album)\n\nAll Rise is the debut studio album by English boy band Blue, released on 26 November 2001 in the United Kingdom and on 27 April 2004 in the United States. It peaked at number one on the UK Albums Chart and was certified 4× Platinum in the UK. The album spent 63 weeks on the UK top 75 Albums chart.\n\nThe album received mixed to positive reviews from critics. Sharon Mawer of AllMusic gave the album three and half stars out of five and noted, \"The vocals were sung as if there was some real feeling, and that maybe is what separated Blue from their peers.\" Andre Paine of the \"NME\" gave the album five stars out of ten stating, when describing some of the tracks that \"All of these are fine, but so as not to alienate a single teenage girl, there's also the traditional boyband slop; 'If You Come Back' ...the ballads and various Backstreet Boys rip-offs. But at least Stargate & Ray Ruffin know what they do. And Blue are young and talented enough to secure themselves a successful pop career.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2135259", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2135259", "title": "Index of Turkey-related articles", "text": "Index of Turkey-related articles\n\nArticles (arranged alphabetically) related to Turkey include:\n\n\n1924*1925*1926*1927*1928*1929*1930*1931*1932*1933*1934*1935*1936*1937*1938*1939*1940*1941*1942*1943*1944*1945*1946*1947*1948*1949*1950*\n1951*1952*1953*1954*1955*1956*1957*1958*1959*1960*1961*1962*1963*1964*1965*1966*1967*1968*1969*1970*1971*1972*1973*1974*1975*1976*1977*\n1978*1979*1980*1981*1982*1983*1984*1985*1986*1987*1988*1989*1990*1991*1992*1993*1994*1995*1996*1997* 1998*1999*\n\n\n1*2*3*4*5*6*7*8*9*10*11*12*13*14*15*16*17*18*9*10*21*22*23*24*25*26*27*28*29*30*31*32*33*34*35*36*37*38*39*40*41*42*43*44*45*46*47*48*49*50*51*\n52*53*54*55*56*57*58*59*60*61*62*63*64\n\n\n2*3*4*5*6*7*8*9*10*11*12*12*14*15*16*17*18*19*20*21*22*23*24*25*26\n\n1961*1964*1966*1968*1973*1975*1977*1979\n\n\n1923*1927*1931*1935*1939*1943*1946*1950*1954*1957*1961*1965*1969*1973*1977*1983*1987*1991*1995*1999*2002*2007*2011 *2015 (Jun)*2015 (Nov)\n\n1963*1968*1973*1977*1984*1989*\n1994*1999*2004*2009*2014\n\n2003 Istanbul bombings - 2010 Elâzığ earthquake - 70 Million Steps Against Coups\n\nAbanoz - Accession of Turkey to the European Union - ACS Mersin - Adamkayalar - Adana - Adana Conference - Adana Province - Adapazarı - Adıyaman - Adıyaman Province - Adile Sultan - Adile Sultan Palace - Aegean Sea - Afyonkarahisar - Afyonkarahisar Province - Ağrı - Ağrı Province - Ahmed Djemal - Akdeniz, Mersin - Akdere - Akhayat sinkhole - Aksaray - Aksaray Province - Aktepe - Ala Mosque (Kadirli) - Alahan Monastery - Alevi - Alexandria Troas - Ali Pasha - Alluvial plains of Turkey - Alp Arslan - Altından geçme - Altınpark - Amasya - Amasya Province - American Turkish Chamber of Commerce - Anadolu Bank (1961) - Anatolia - Anavarza Castle - Anazarbus - Ancient road in Tarsus - Ancient settlements in Turkey - Anchiale - Anıtkabir - Ani - Ankara - Ankara 19 Mayıs Stadium - Ankara Province - Antalya - Antalya Province - Antakya (Antioch) - ANZAC Cove -Aphrodisias - Aphrodisias of Cilicia - Aras River - Arap Mosque - Ardahan - Ardahan Province - Arslanköy - Arsuz - Artvin - Artvin Province - Assos - Atakent - ATAŞ (Refinery) - Atatürk Monument (İzmir) - Atatürk Monument (Mersin) - Atatürk International Airport - Atatürk Museum in Adana - Atatürk Museum in İstanbul - Atatürk Museum in Mersin - Atayurt - ATO Congresium - Aulai - Avni Arbaş - Aya Tekla Church - Ayaş, Mersin - Aydın - Aydın Province - Aykut Kocaman - Ayvagediği -\n\nBademdere - Bahçeli - Balcılar - Balıkesir - Balıkesir Province - Balizza - Bartın - Bartın Province - Basilica Cistern - Basilinopolis - Batman, Turkey - Batman Province - Batman River - Battle of Chunuk Bair - Battle of Gallipoli - Battle of Gully Ravine - Battle of Hill 60 (Gallipoli) - Battle of Karboğazı - Battle of Krithia Vineyard - Battle of Lone Pine - Battle of Sakarya - Battle of Sari Bair - Battle of Scimitar Hill - Battle of the Nek - Bayburt - Bayburt Province - Belemedik - Belkahve Pass - Berdan River - Beşiktaş - Beşiktaş J.K. - - Bey - Beylik of Erzincan - Beyoğlu - Bilecik - Bilecik Province - Bilkent University - Bingöl - Bingöl Province - Bitlis - Bitlis Province - Black Sea - Boğaziçi University - Boğsak Islet- Bolu - Bolu Province - Boraboy - Bosporus - Bozcaada Castle - Bozgüney - Buca - Buca Gölet -Burdur - Burdur Province - Bursa - Bursa Province - Büyükeceli - Byzantine Empire - Byzantium\n\nCabotage Day - Capes of Turkey - Cappadocia - Cemilli Castle - Cennet and Cehennem - Central Finance and Contracts Unit (Turkey) - Chamber of Electrical Engineers of Turkey - Cici Kızlar - Cinema of Turkey - Cingöz Recai - Cleopatra's gate - Climate in Turkey - Communications in Turkey - Communist Party of Turkey (disambiguation) - Cornucopia- Cuban Missile Crisis - Culture of Turkey - Cumhuriyet Anıtı - Cyprus - Cyprus dispute\n\nÇağ University - Çanakçı rock tombs - Çanakkale - Çanakkale Province - Çankaya University - Çankırı - Çankırı Province - Çarıklar - Çatalca Peninsula - Çatalhöyük - Çatıören - Çaykavak Pass - ÇEKÜL -Çelemli - Çeşme - Çeşmeli - Çiftehan - Çiğdem Talu - Çimsataş - Çorum - Çorum Province - Çukurova - Çukurova, Adana - Çukurova motorway\n\nD 400 Highway - Dana Adası - Darboğaz -Dardanelles - Datça Peninsula - Dedemli - Deep state in Turkey - Democratic Left Party - Democrat Party (current) - Democrat Party (1946) - Democratic Party (1970) - Democratic People's Party (Turkey) - Demography of Turkey - Denizli - Denizli Province - Didyma - Dilek Peninsula - Divan - Diyarbakır - Diyarbakır Prison - Diyarbakır Province - Dolmabahçe Palace - DÖSİMM - Druze - Düzbağ- Düzce Province\n\nEastern Anatolia Development Programme - Economy of Turkey - Edirne - Edirne Province - Egebank - Elazığ -Elazığ Province - Elections for Metropolitan municipalities in Turkey - Elections in Turkey - Elvanlı - Emlak Kredi Bank - Ephesus - Erzincan - Erzincan Province - Erzurum - Erzurum Province - Esenpınar - Esbank - Eskişehir - Eskişehir Province - Etimesgut - Euphrates\n\nFaculty of Arts and Sciences Building in İstanbul University - Fatih - Fatih Terim - Fatih University - Fazıl Küçük - Felicity Party - Fener - Fenerbahçe S.K. - Fertek - Fethullah Gülen - Fevzipaşa - - Feza Gürsey Science Center - Fındıkpınarı - Fifty civil engineering feats in Turkey - First Battle of Krithia - Flag of Turkey - Foreign relations of Cyprus - Foreign relations of Greece - Foreign relations of Turkey - Freedom and Solidarity Party - Flora and Vegetation of Turkey - Freedom and Constitution Day\n\nGalata - Galata Bridge - Galata Tower - Galatasaray S.K. - Galatasaray High School - Galatia - Gallipoli - Gaziantep - Gaziantep Province - Gelibolu Peninsula - Gençlerbirliği - Gençlik Parkı - Genocide of Ottoman Turks and Muslims - Geography of Turkey -Giresun - Giresun Province - Golden Horn - Gökçeada and Bozcaada - Göksu (river) - Göksu, Mersin - Göktepe - Gölcük - Gözlükule - Gözne - Grand National Assembly of Turkey - Great Turkey Party - Great Union Party - Greece - Grey Wolves - Grup Gündoğarken - Gulf of Antalya - Gulf of Fethiye - Gulf of İskenderun - Gulf of Mersin - Gulfs of Turkey - Gülek - Güler Sabancı - Gümüşhane -Gümüşhane Province - Güneyyurt - Güzelyayla\n\nHaciz Courts - Hagia Sophia - Hakkâri - Hakkâri Province - Halkçı Parti - Halkevleri - Hammam - Harem (Istanbul neighbourhood) - Hatay - Haydar Ergülen - Haydarpaşa Terminal - Hedo Türkoğlu - Helvadere - Hierapolis - Hippodrome of Constantinople - Historic states represented in Turkish presidential seal - History of Turkey - Holidays in Turkey - Horon - Human chain against nuclear plant in Turkey - Human rights in Turkey - Huzurkent -\n\nIğdır - Iğdır Province - Incirlik - Incirlik Air Base - Independent Group (Turkey) - International Security Assistance Force -- Isik University - Iskender kebap - Islam in Turkey - Ismail Acar - Ismail Enver - Isparta - Isparta Province - Istanbul International Jazz Festival - Istanbul International Music Festival - Istanbul Mineral and Metals Exporters' Association - Istanbul Technical University - Istanbul University - Istanbulspor AS - Istiklal Avenue\n\nİktisat Bankası - İlkadım - İlhan Berk - İnlice - İnönü Stadium - İskenderun - İstanbul - İstanbul Bank - Istanbul Blues Company - İstanbul Province - Istanbul metalworkers strike of 2008–09 - İstiklâl Marşı - İzmir - İzmir European Jazz Festival - İzmir Province - İzmit\n\nJanissary - Justice and Development Party (Turkey) - Justice Commandos Against Armenian Genocide\n\nKackar - Kaç Kaç - Kahramanmaraş - Kahramanmaraş Province - Kaledran - Kanlıdivane - Kapadokya - Karabucak Forest - Karaburun Peninsula - Karabük - Karabük Province - Karadağ - Karakız Lake - Karaman - Karaman Province - Kargıpınarı - Kars - Kars Province - Karum - Kasımiye Medrese- Kastamonu - Kastamonu Province - Kayseri - Kayseri Province - Kazanlı - Keçikalesi - Kemerhisar - Kepez - Kılbasan - Kırıkkale - Kırıkkale Province - Kırklareli - Kırklareli Province - Kırşehir - Kırşehir Province - Kışlak - Kızılay Emek Business Center - Kızıldağ Pass - Kızkalesi - Kız Kulesi - Kilis - Kilis Province - Kocaeli Peninsula - Kocaeli Province - Kocahasanlı - Kolsuz Pass - Konya - Konya Province - Korean War - Köçek - Köseçobanlı - Kumkuyu - Kurdistan Workers Party - Kuskan - Kütahya - Kütahya Province - Kutlug Ataman- Kürşat (hero)\n\nLaal Pasha Mosque - Ladino language - Lake Eber - Lake Eymir - Lake Mogan - Lake Van - Lamas Aqueduct - Landing at Anzac Cove - Landing at Cape Helles - Landing at Suvla Bay - Left of Center (Turkey) - Letters from Turkey - Letters from Turkey (Moltke) - Leyla Gencer - LGBT rights in Turkey - Liberal Democrat Party - Liberalism in Turkey - Liberty Party - Libraries in Turkey - Lira - List of Turkish academics - List of castles in Turkey - List of Chiefs Turkish General Staff - List of cities in Turkey - List of free zones of Turkey - List of Seljuk hans and kervansarays in Turkey - List of historical parties in Turkey - List of maritime incidents in the Turkish Straits - List of mayors of İzmir - List of mayors of Mersin - List of Ministers of Foreign Affairs of Turkey - List of mountain passes in Turkey - List of museums in Turkey - List of newspapers in Turkey - List of party leaders in Turkey - List of political parties in Turkey - List of populated places in Adana Province - List of populated places in Afyonkarahisar Province - List of populated places in Mersin Province - List of Presidents of Turkey - List of Prime Ministers of Turkey - List of Speakers of the Parliament of Turkey - List of Turkish academics - List of Turkish elections - List of Turkish painters - List of Turks - List of yaylas in Turkey - List of World Heritage Sites in Turkey - List of World Heritage Sites in Turkey (Tentative list)\n\nMilli Emniyet Hizmeti - Mahmut Bey Mosque - Malatya - Malatya Province - Mamure Castle - Manisa - Manisa Province - Mardin - Mardin Province - Marmara University - Medieval City of Beçin - Mediterranean Sea - Mekteb i sultani - Memorial Health Group - Mersin - Mersin Congress and Exhibition Center - Mersin Feneri - Mersin Grand Mosque - Mersin Halkevi - Mersin Harbor - Mersin International Music Festival - Mersin Marina - Mersin Museum - Mersin Province - Mersin Railway Station - Mertim - Metropolitan centers in Turkey -Mevlevi - Meydancık Castle - Mezitli - Miletus - Military of Cyprus - Milli Aydın Bank - Milli Istihbarat Teskilati - Modern Folk Üçlüsü - Montreux Convention Regarding the Regime of the Turkish Straits - Motion with four signatures - Mount Ararat - Mosques commissioned by the Ottoman dynasty - Mountains of Turkey - Muğdat Mosque - Muğla - Muğla Province - Muhtar - Mustafa İnan - Museums in Turkey - Music of Turkey - Muş - Muş Province - Mut, Mersin - Mut Castle - Müftü River\n\nNarlıkuyu - Nasreddin - Natalia Nasaridze - Nationalistic Democracy Party - Nationalist Movement Party - National ramnant - National Unity Committee - NATO - Naval operations in the Dardanelles Campaign - Neve Shalom synagogue - Nevşehir - Nevşehir Province - New Turkey Party (2002) - New Turkey Party (1961) - New Turkish lira - Niğde - Niğde Province - Nihat Erim - Nil Burak -North Anatolian fault -\n\nOrdu - Ordu Province - Orhan Karaveli - Orhan Pamuk - Orhan Veli - Order of the State of Republic of Turkey - Otto Liman von Sanders\n\nÖren\n\nPamukkale - Pan-Turkism - Parliamentary terms of Turkey - Patriarch of Constantinople - Payas -Pekinel sisters - Peninsulas of Turkey - Pergamon - Polish Legion in Turkey - Politics of Cyprus - Politics of Turkey - Ports of Turkey - Power plants in Turkey- Priene - Princes' Islands - Provinces of Turkey - Public parks in Turkey - Pursuit of Goeben and Breslau\n\nRadio and television technology in Turkey - Railway stations in Turkey - Rahmi M. Koç Museum - Rahmi M.Koç Museum (Ankara) - Rauf Denktaş - Raybank - Refah Tragedy - Religion in Turkey - Republican Party - Republican Confidence Party - Republican People's Party (Turkey) - Revolutionary Workers and Peasants Party of Turkey - Rize - Rize Province - Robert College - Roman road in Cilicia - Rüsumat No 4\n\nSabancı University - Sağlık - Saint Paul's Church, Tarsus - Sakarya Province - [ Samsun - Samsun Province - Sanjak - Sardis - Sea of Marmara - Sebil - Second Battle of Krithia - Second Group (Turkey) - Sedd el Bahr - Semiha Berksoy - Senate of the Republic (Turkey) - Sızma - Sibel Kekilli - Sinop, Turkey - Sinop Province - Sivas - Sivas Province - Sivrihisar Grand Mosque - SMS Breslau - SMS Goeben - Soda Industry Inc. - SODEP - Soğucak - Sokollu Mehmet Pasha caravanserai -Sport in Turkey - State road D715 - Sulu Khan - Sultan Ahmed Mosque - Suvla - Süleymaniye Mosque - Sykes-Picot Agreement\n\nŞanlıurfa - Şanlıurfa Irrigation Tunnels - Şanlıurfa Province - Şenköy - Şükrü Saracoğlu Stadium\n\nTabriz–Ankara pipeline - Taksim Square - Talas, Turkey - Tales from the Expat Harem - Tapureli ruins - Tarsus - Tarsus Grand Mosque - Tarsus Railway Station - Taşkale - Taşpınar - Taurus Mountains - Tekirdağ - Tekirdağ Province - Tekeli, Bozyazı - Tekeli, Koçarlı - Tekeli, Mut - Tekmen - Telephone services in Turkey - Temple of Artemis - The Grand Bazaar, Istanbul - The Spice Bazaar, Istanbul - The Tombstones of Ahlat the Urartian and Ottoman citadel - Third Battle of Krithia - Tigris -Time in Turkey- Timeline of the Battle of Gallipoli - Timeline of broadcast in Turkey - Timeline of the Turkish War of Independence - Timeline of Turkish history - - Tokat - Tokat Province - Tokmar Castle - Tomb of Seydi Mahmut - Tomb of Suleyman Shah - Topkapı Palace - Toroslar - Töbank - TPAO Batman - Tömük -.tr - Trabzon - Trabzon Province - Trabzonspor - Transportation in Turkey - Treaty of Lausanne - Treaty of Sèvres - Trojan Horse - Troy - True Path Party - Tugay Kerimoğlu - Tunc Hamarat - Tunceli - Tunceli Province -Tünel - Turan Emeksiz - Turbes - Türk Kültür Vakfı - Turkey - Turkey Home - Turkey national football team - Turkic peoples - Turkish alphabet - Turkish American Chamber of Commerce and Industry - Turkish Armed Forces - Turkish Army - Turkish cuisine - Turkish coup d'état - Turkish Fifth Army - Turkish First Army - Turkish Football Cup - Turkish Football Federation - Turkish general elections after 1980 - Turkish general elections before 1980 - Turkish local elections after 1980 - Turkish local elections before 1980 - Turkish language - Turkish Maritime Management - New Turkey Party (1961) - New Turkey Party (2002) - Turkish General Staff -Turkish people - Turkish riviera - Turkish lira - Turkish literature - Turkish music (style) - Turkish Pine - Turkish Premier Super League - Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus - Turkish War of Independence - Turkish women in academics - Turkish women in cinema - Turkish women in fine arts -Turkish women in music - Turkish women in public service - Turks in Bulgaria - Tütünbank\n\nUmran Dergisi - Union of chambers of Turkish engineers and architects - Uşak Province - Uzuncaburç\n\nÜçayak ruins − Üçayak Byzantine Church\n\nVan, Turkey - Van Province - Vizier\n\nWater supply and sanitation in Turkey - Waterfalls of Turkey - Welfare Party - Women in Turkish politics - World War I\n\nYağlı güreş - Yalova - Yalova Province - Yapıntı - Yayla - Yedi Göller - Yeni Kavaflar Market - Yenice - Yenişehir, Mersin - Yeniyurt Castle - Yerliyya - Yesemek Quarry and Sculpture Workshop -Yeşilçay Drinking Water Plant - Yeşildere - Yeşilovacık - Yıldız Palace - Yılmaz Güney - Young Turks - Yousuf Karsh - Youth Party (Turkey) - Yozgat - Yozgat Province - Yukuk Shad - Yumuktepe - Yunus Emre\n\nZeyne Zonguldak - Zonguldak Province - Zorkun\n\n"}
{"id": "2135280", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2135280", "title": "Thomas Brown (engineer)", "text": "Thomas Brown (engineer)\n\nThomas Brown (1772 – 30 January 1850) was an English surveyor, civil engineer, businessman and landowner.\n\nBorn at Disley in Cheshire, he had interests in coal-mining, particularly in the Haughton and Hyde areas of Greater Manchester, as well as lime burning and mineral extraction interests. He owned land at Disley, Manchester and Heaton Norris and he lived at Ardwick Green, Manchester.\n\nHe is best known as the resident engineer for the construction of the Peak Forest Canal and the Peak Forest Tramway and in 1793 he made the initial survey of their routes. Following the resignation of Benjamin Outram in 1801 he was appointed as consulting engineer for the completion of the Marple canal locks. He was also the surveyor for the Ashton Canal and the resident engineer for the construction of the Macclesfield Canal.\n\nBy 1841 he was living in Allerton Place at 16 Ardwick Green. He died here on 30 January 1850, aged 78 years.\n"}
{"id": "2135282", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2135282", "title": "Dimas (footballer)", "text": "Dimas (footballer)\n\nDimas Manuel Marques Teixeira (born 16 February 1969), known simply as Dimas, is a Portuguese former footballer who played as a left back.\n\nIn a 15-year senior career he represented both Benfica and Sporting in his country, also having stints in four other nations, most notably with Juventus in Italy.\n\nHaving played nearly 45 times for Portugal, Dimas represented the nation in two European Championships.\n\nThe son of Portuguese immigrants in South Africa, Dimas was born in Johannesburg, returning to Europe at an early age. He made his professional debuts in 1987 with Associação Académica de Coimbra, and stayed with the \"Students\" for a further two seasons in spite of their relegation to the second division.\n\nDimas then joined C.F. Estrela da Amadora, which had just won the Portuguese Cup. Thus, he made his European competition debut, helping the Lisbon club reach the second round of the 1990–91 edition of the UEFA Cup Winners' Cup and subsequently signing for Vitória de Guimarães.\n\nAfter that, solid defensive performances earned him a move to S.L. Benfica for 1994–95, where Dimas continue to develop as a player, which led to a November 1996 transfer to Serie A side Juventus FC. He made 18 appearances in all competitions for the latter in the second half of the season, totalling 21 in the league during his first full campaign while being crowned champion in both years; however, he struggled to break into the first team permanently, and after only one match in 1998–99 he moved to Turkey on 1 October 1998 with Fenerbahçe SK.\n\nIn another winter transfer window, Dimas left Fenerbahçe in 2000 and played six months at Standard Liège. After a good run at UEFA Euro 2000 with Portugal (he made his first international appearance in 1995 while at Benfica, and was the nation's first choice at that and the previous continental competition, playing four games in each), he proved he could still be of value for a title contending team, and returned home after signing for Sporting CP.\n\nAfter quickly losing the battle for first-choice with fellow international Rui Jorge, mainly due to a right knee injury, Dimas was deemed surplus to requirements, moving on loan to Olympique de Marseille although he still helped Sporting in two matches in his second season, as the capital club conquered the double. He retired at the age of 33, with 44 international caps and 202 Primeira Liga games to his credit.\n\nOn 16 February 2018, Dimas was appointed assistant coach at EFL Championship club Barnsley under his countryman José Morais. At the end of the season, which ended in relegation, the pair left Oakwell.\n\nOn 18 August 2018, Dimas and Morais joined Ukrainian Premier League side FC Karpaty Lviv. At the start of the following year, the pair took positions at Jeonbuk Hyundai Motors FC in South Korea, though he resigned in April 2019.\n\nAlthough he was neither the most skilful nor influential player, Dimas was however known for his stamina, work-rate and ability to chase down opponents as a full-back, as well as his commitment and ability to make attacking runs down the left flank.\n\nBenfica\n\nJuventus\n\nStandard Liège\n\nSporting\n\n"}
{"id": "2135286", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2135286", "title": "Flashback (1990 film)", "text": "Flashback (1990 film)\n\nFlashback is a 1990 American adventure comedy film starring Dennis Hopper, Kiefer Sutherland and Carol Kane. The film is written by David Loughery and directed by Franco Amurri.\n\nHuey Walker (Dennis Hopper), a hippie and a former New Left radical (in the vein of Abbie Hoffman) who has been on the run from the law for 20 years for something he did not do, disconnecting Spiro Agnew's train car in Spokane, Washington. John Buckner (Kiefer Sutherland) is an FBI agent who is set to transport Walker back to Spokane for trial.\n\nTheir journey forces them to cross paths with a corrupt Sheriff Hightower and the two end up fleeing for their lives. As the story progresses, it is revealed that Buckner was raised on a communal farm and that his given name is Free. As Buckner learns to reconcile his past with his present, Walker does as well.\n\n\nThe film received mixed reviews.\n\nVincent Canby in \"The New York Times\" stated,\nAbout 30 minutes before it's over, \"Flashback\" begins to go to pieces, like someone who has overdosed on carrot juice and organic marzipan. The movie becomes woozy and sort of distraught. Until then, it's an engaging comedy about the confrontation of a superannuated flower child of the 1960s and a 26-year-old representative of the clean-shaven, cholesterol-conscious, fiercely conservative 1980s.\n\nThe \"Los Angeles Times\" critic Peter Rainer stated: \nIn \"Flashback\" (citywide), the casting of Dennis Hopper as an Abbie Hoffman-like radical prankster is weirdly dislocating. Still primarily identified with \"Easy Rider,\" Hopper is the shaggy archetype of '60s hippie anomie. [...] Despite his scraggly derelict's appearance and screw-loose antics, he is wised-up and politically right on. He is, God help us, the conscience of the '60s. And that's where the dislocation comes in. Hopper represents the fringes of hippiedom for us, yet his character here is also being promoted as a robust politico—an Abbie Hoffman in Rip Van Winkle drag.\n\nRemarked Roger Ebert, \nI've heard people complaining recently that once you've seen the coming attractions trailer for a movie, you've seen the movie. That's the way I felt after seeing the trailer for Franco Amurri's \"Flashback\", but the film itself is a pleasant surprise - deeper and more original than the formula that the trailer seems to promise.\n\nThe then-new \"Entertainment Weekly\" magazine gave the film a B+, stating: \nEver since the mythic ’60s ended, countercultural idealists have been grappling with the loss of what they believed would be their eternal youth. Considering how many serious books and movies have addressed the aging of the Woodstock generation, it’s surprising to find Flashback, a seemingly insubstantial film that has something important to say on the subject. [...] Screenwriter David Loughery cleverly builds this simple role reversal into an affecting vehicle for exploring identity and growth. Against all odds, the movie manages to avoid easy caricatures. [...] Unlike many such voyages through the past, this is one ’60s trip that’s worth repeating.\n\nBased on fourteen reviews, the film has a score of 40% on Rotten Tomatoes.\n\nThe film debuted at number 5.\n\nThe film produced a fairly popular soundtrack made up of a mix of 1960s and 1980s alternative music. The highlight is the theme song \"Free\" by the band Big Audio Dynamite, which is only available on this soundtrack; it was never included in any Big Audio Dynamite album, although the single edit appears on their compilation \"Planet B.A.D.\" . A remake of the song, titled \"Kickin' In\", was later recorded by Big Audio Dynamite II and included on the \"Kool-Aid\" album. Bob Dylan's version of Curtis Mayfield's \"\"People Get Ready\"\" is also only available on this soundtrack, as it hasn't yet been released on any Dylan album or any of his many box sets or \"Bootleg Series\" releases, although a different version that Dylan recorded in 1975 is available on iTunes as a bonus track on \"\".\n\nTrack Listing\n\n"}
{"id": "2135288", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2135288", "title": "Seoul International Cartoon and Animation Festival", "text": "Seoul International Cartoon and Animation Festival\n\nThe Seoul International Cartoon and Animation Festival (SICAF, ) is an annual showcase festival of animation, cartoon and related art genres held in Seoul, South Korea since 1995. It is sponsored by the Ministry of Culture, Sports and Tourism and the city of Seoul. The main mascots are \"Bummy\" (버미) the tiger (after the original Korean word \"bum\" (범), which means tiger) and \"Tanko\" (땡고추, very hot chili pepper).\n\nThe festival has exhibitions, showing of animation films, promotion booths and various special events. There are an official competition section and invited guest section. Awards are given to the categories of long animation, short animation, TV & commissioned works, and internet animation. Online popularity votes are held as well. Grand prix winning animations include Hungary's \"The District!\" (2005), Japan's \"Tokyo Marble Chocolate\" (2008), and the Irish-Belgian-French \"The Secret of Kells\" (2009).\n\nAmong notable SICAF events was a 2003 performance by Ferenc Cakó, a Hungarian sand animation artist, which has been widely distributed online.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2135292", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2135292", "title": "132nd Armoured Division Ariete", "text": "132nd Armoured Division Ariete\n\nThe Ariete Armoured Division was an armoured division of the Italian Army during World War II. It was formed in 1939 as the second armoured division in the Italian Army after the 131 Armoured Division Centauro. The division fought in the North African Campaign until being destroyed during the Second Battle of El Alamein. After World War II the division was reformed as part of the Italian Army.\n\nThe 132nd Armoured Division \"Ariete\" was formed in Milan in February 1939, it was initially made up of the 8th Bersaglieri Regiment, the 32nd Tank Infantry Regiment, equipped with L3/35 tankettes, the 132nd Armored Artillery Regiment, and additional divisional support units. The division was moved to the French border at the outbreak of World War II, but was kept in reserve during the short campaign on that front. It was part of the Army of the Po, the strategic reserve. By that time the 32nd Tank Infantry Regiment had grown to eight battalions: three light ones with L3/35 tankettes, two medium ones with M11/39 tanks, and three medium ones with M13/40 tanks.\n\nIn 1940 the I, II, III, and V medium battalions of the 32nd Tank Infantry Regiment were sent to Italian Libya piecemeal. The I and II medium tank battalions with M11/39 tanks were sent in summer and entered the Maletti Group, while the III and V medium tank battalions with M13/40 tanks arrived in October and November and entered the Special Armored Brigade (\"Brigata Corazzata Speciale\", or BCS). Both the Maletti Group and the Special Armored Brigade were part of the ill-fated 10th Army.\n\nFrom December 1940 to February 1941, during Operation Compass, the British Western Desert Force overran the 10th Army and occupied Cyrenaica. The I battalion was destroyed in Egypt during the Attack on Nibeiwa, while the II battalion was lost in the fall of Tobruk. The III and V battalions were sacrificed during the failed break out attempt at the Battle of Beda Fomm. After this defeat it was decided to employ the whole Ariete Division in North Africa. On 24 January 1941, the first echelons of the division disembarked at Tripoli. From February 1941 to November 1942, the Ariete Division fought alongside the \"Deutsches Afrika Korps\" (DAK) in the North Africa Campaign. Initially the Ariete was attached to the Italian Mobile Corps (), which later became the Italian XX Motorised Corps.\n\nIn particular, reinforced in 1941 with the 132nd Tank Infantry Regiment, which would replace the 32nd Tank Infantry Regiment, (disbanded in mid-1942), the division took part in the first Axis counter-offensive to retake Cyrenaica, and the following siege of Tobruk. With the 132nd Tank Infantry Regiment, equipped with M13/40 and M14/41 tanks the division fought in the Western Desert of Libya and Egypt during 1941.\n\nOn 1 May 1941 the Germans and Italians attacked Tobruk in considerable strength. Their attack pierced the Australian defences; the \"Ariete\" and 8th Bersaglieri captured the R3, R4, R5, R6 and R7 strongpoints, On 3 May the Australians launched a counter-attack with the 18th Brigade. The counter-attack only recaptured one strong point from what Australian historian Mark Johnston reported to be Italian defenders. This action is later known as the Battle of the Salient.\n\nDuring Operation Crusader, the division fought against the British 22nd Armoured Brigade at Bir el Gubi, inflicting heavy losses on the inexperienced British forces. On 23 November, the 15th Panzer Division moved on to attack the 5th South African Brigade defending Sidi Rezegh and that evening, \"Ariete\" with the 8th Bersaglieri Regiment, came up in support and the ridge was taken along with 3,400 prisoners. During 29–30 November, the \"Ariete\" and supporting Italian infantry and motorcycle units were responsible for capturing a considerable number of New Zealand, Indian and British troops during the Italo-German counter-attacks. Recalling the loss of the 21st Battalion, Lieutenant-Colonel Howard Kippenberger, who later rose to command the 2nd New Zealand Division, wrote that,\n\nWhen the battle led to the retreat of the Axis forces to the Gazala Line, the \"Ariete\" went on the attack, augmented by 23 tanks of the 15th Panzer Division and supported by Bersaglieri motorcycle troops, lost no time in assaulting the pursuing Commonwealth forces. Between them, they overran the 1st Battalion,\" The Buffs\" (Royal East Kent Regiment) and part of the 5th Indian Brigade, taking according to one estimate 1,000 prisoners in the counter-attack. The British were able to recover from this setback and the \"Ariete\" retreated through the Djebel Mountain towards el Agheila; by this time the division had lost almost all its tanks.\n\nReinforced again with replacement tanks and M40 75/18 mm semoventi assault guns in the V and VI battalions of the 132nd Artillery Regiment, it took part in the second counter-offensive of January 1942, the Gazala battles of May 1942 and the invasion of Egypt that followed.\n\nThe \"Ariete\" met early success during the Battle of Gazala, when it overran the British-officered 3rd Indian Motor Brigade at Rugbet Al Atasc on 27 May 1942, capturing 1,000 troops. The \"Ariete\" then repelled strong British armoured counterattacks on 29 May and went on to repeat the same feat on 5 June 1942.\n\nDuring the initial phase of the First Battle of El Alamein the \"Ariete\", which had just six or eight tanks and 1,000 men, having just arrived in the positions assigned to it at dawn on 3 July 1942 and due to the disorganization caused by enemy air attacks, had been compelled to withdraw after losing 531 men, several artillery batteries and a number of tanks. Rommel's report of the division having been decimated with the loss of 100 tanks was greatly exaggerated.\n\nDuring the Second Battle of El Alamein the Ariete sacrificed struggled to counter the Allied offensive and cover the withdrawal of the army. On 4 November at about 15:30, the few surviving tanks were surrounded by an overwhelmingly superior enemy, and general Arena, the division's commander, broadcast this message:\n\nOf three medium tank battalions, a \"Bersaglieri\" regiment, two artillery battalions and a self-propelled gun battalion that composed the division at the time, only the XIII Medium Tank battalion and 200 \"bersaglieri\" with 6 semoventi survived long enough to be destroyed along the coastal road or near Fuka on 5 and 6 November. Rommel mourned the loss of the division, writing that its final action had been conducted with exemplary courage and that \"in the \"Ariete\" we lost our oldest Italian comrades, from whom we had probably always demanded more than they, with their poor armament, had been capable of performing\".\n\nOn 21 November 1942, the division was disbanded, and its name kept by a task force gathering up its remnants, which kept fighting throughout the retreat (including a notably successful rearguard action at El Agheila) and subsequent campaign in Tunisia. It was forced to surrender along with the rest of the Axis army in North Africa. \nOn 1 April 1943, as a tribute it was reconstituted as 135 Ariete II Armoured Cavalry Division, made up of cavalry regiments. The division was located in north eastern Italy, with the following order of battle;\n\n\nIt comprised the following armoured fighting vehicles:\nfor a total of 247 tank and semoventi plus 42 armoured cars.\n\nThe division was moved to central Italy following the fall of Benito Mussolini's government and took part to the defence of Rome from 9 to 10 September 1943, counter-attacking German Panzergrenadiers and Paratroopers. Because the Headquarters decided to avoid unnecessary sacrifices and losses, the division was ordered to surrender and was then disbanded.\n\nOn 23 May 1948 its reconstitution as a brigade sized unit begins at Forte Pietralata in Rome. The same year it was transferred to Pordenone in the Friuli region in Northern Italy. On 1 October 1952, the brigade had completed its increase to full division and commanded now the same regiments as during the African campaign:\n\nIn 1963 all Italian divisions adapted their organization to NATO standards and thus added a brigade level to the divisions structure. In the same year the reconstitution of the 32nd Tank Regiment began:\n\n\nOn 1 October 1968 the brigade headquarters were disbanded and the divisions returned to its former structure. The \"Ariete\" Armored Division was part of the 5th Army Corps based in North-Eastern Italy. The 5th Army Corps was tasked with defending the Yugoslav-Italian border against possible attacks by either the Warsaw Pact, or Yugoslavia or both. The \"Ariete\" Armored Division was based in the corps' armored reserve.\n\nBefore the major reorganization of 1975 the division consisted of the following units:\n\n\nIn 1975 the Italian Army undertook a major reorganization of it forces: the regiment level was abolished and battalions came under direct command of newly formed brigades, which combined units from different arms. Thus on 1 October 1975 the \"Ariete\" took command of the following brigades, which were formed from its disbanded regiments:\n\nAdditional troops were added to bring the division up to full strength:\n\nWhen the Italian Army abolished the divisional level on 10 October 1986 the 132nd Armored Brigade \"Manin\" was renamed as 132nd Armored Brigade \"Ariete\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2135296", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2135296", "title": "Tex Morton", "text": "Tex Morton\n\nTex Morton (born Robert William Lane in Nelson, New Zealand, also credited as Robert Tex Morton; 30 August 1916 – 23 July 1983) was a pioneer of New Zealand and Australian country and western music, vaudevillian, actor, television host and circus performer\n\nMorton was born the eldest of four to Bernard William Lane, a postal clerk and Mildred Eastgate and attended Nelson College between 1930 and 1931. At age 15 he left home to launch himself into show business. His first attempts to run away and join the circus ended in him being found busking by police and he was promptly returned home.\n\nAbout 1934, he recorded some \"hillbilly songs\" privately. He later claimed that these were played on New Zealand radio, though this is perhaps unlikely. Some of these recordings have recently come to light, though they have not been commercially reissued. About 1934 (the exact date is uncertain - Morton himself also claimed it was 1932), he emigrated to Australia, apparently intent on a recording career. On 25 February 1936, he recorded four songs for the Columbia Graphophone Company in Sydney, Australia.\nBetween 1936 and 1943, Morton recorded 93 songs, accompanying himself on an acoustic guitar for most tracks, for Columbia's Regal Zonophone label. On some later tracks, he was accompanied by his band, The Rough Riders, and a female singer 'Sister Dorrie' (Dorothy Carroll). In 1943, he left Columbia following a dispute with Arch Kerr, the Record Sales Manager, probably over the company's reluctance to use The Rough Riders. He was billed as 'The Yodelling Boundary Rider' on records, though he apparently did not approve of the name.\n\nDuring the 1930s and 1940s, he gradually incorporated Australian themes and motifs into some of the songs he wrote. This approach was followed by other Australian country artists who followed in his footsteps, such as Buddy Williams and Slim Dusty, leading to a particular genre of country music - the Australian bush ballad, which was also influenced by the turn-of-the-century poetry of Banjo Paterson and Henry Lawson.\n\nIn 1949 and 1950, he recorded more sides in Sydney and possibly New Zealand. These were released on the Rodeo and Tasman labels; some songs were probably recorded at the instigation of US record producer Ralph Peer, who visited Sydney in 1949 and met Morton.\n\nFrom 1950 to 1959, Morton was in Canada and the United States. He toured with Pee Wee King in 1952 and recorded in Nashville in March 1953. Morton toured Canada and the United States as a stage hypnotist, memory expert, whip cracker and sharpshooter, and was associated for some time with the Canadian country singer, Dixie Bill Hilton. He claimed to have toured for six months as an opening act for Hank Williams, but this is extremely unlikely, though he may have met Williams in late 1952 through Oscar Davis, who was Morton's manager and Williams's last manager, or he might have been part of Hilton's opening act for Williams in one of Williams' concerts in Canada.\n\nHe returned to Australia in 1959 with a Grand Ole Opry show, featuring Roy Acuff, the Wilburn Brothers and June Webb, but the show was not popular with Australian audiences and the tour had to be called off.\n\nIn one of his acts, he asked the audience to give him 100 words. He would recount them back in order, \"forgetting\" one of them around the 50th word only to suddenly remember the word when he had almost finished his act.\n\nMorton continued to record during the 1960s and 1970s, and had a surprise hit with \"Goondiwindi Grey\" on the Australian Singles Charts, reaching No. 5 in June 1973. The fiddle accompaniment on the track was provided by long-time friend and veteran of the Sydney entertainment scene comedian/violinist George Raymond.\n\nDuring this period, Morton showed an increasing interest in acting. He appeared in Australian television shows and feature movies (such as \"We Of The Never Never\"). He was the first inductee into Australian Roll of Renown in 1976, recognising his pivotal role in the development of country music in Australia and New Zealand.\n\nMorton, in his career, capitalized on American cowboy and \"Wild West\" images, and was sometimes billed as \"The Singing Cowboy Sensation,\" performing for rodeos, and singing in a yodeling style that drew heavily on those of American singers such as Jimmie Rodgers. His yodelling was influenced by Rodgers, Goebel Reeves and the British Alpine yodeller, Harry Torrani. Although Morton chose to sing in an American (rather than a New Zealand or Australian) accent and sang many songs with American subject matter, several of his recorded songs (such as \"The Ned Kelly Song,\" \"Beautiful Queensland,\" and \"Murrumbidgee Jack\") feature Australian themes. (\"Beautiful Queensland\" was a re-write of W. Lee O'Daniel's \"Beautiful Texas\").\n\nHe lived his later years in Manly, and was a dedicated and well-known amateur radio (ham radio) user with contacts all over the world - including the US Navy. His broadcast handle (callsign) was VK2AHZ and Tex was a member of the Manly-Warringah Radio Society.\n\nMorton died in Sydney's Royal North Shore Hospital on 23 July 1983, after a short battle with lung cancer. His long-time partner, Kath, was by his side.\n\nThere is a collection of bronze busts in Bicentennial Park, Tamworth that includes Shirley Thoms, Stan Coster, Tex Morton, Gordon Parsons, Barry Thornton and Buddy Williams.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2135301", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2135301", "title": "False coral", "text": "False coral\n\nFalse coral may refer to many species of snakes, including:\n\n"}
{"id": "2135305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2135305", "title": "Samuel Hood, 2nd Baron Bridport", "text": "Samuel Hood, 2nd Baron Bridport\n\nSamuel Hood, 2nd Baron Bridport (7 September 1788 – 6 January 1868) succeeded his great-uncle Alexander Hood, 1st Viscount Bridport as Baron Bridport.\n\nHood was educated at Trinity College, Cambridge, obtaining an M.A. degree in 1809. He married Charlotte Mary Nelson on 3 July 1810 in Marylebone, London. They had nine children.\n\nHood was a Tory Member of Parliament for Heytesbury from 1812 to 1818.\n\n"}
{"id": "2135316", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2135316", "title": "Patrick Hayes", "text": "Patrick Hayes\n\nPatrick Hayes may refer to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2135317", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2135317", "title": "List of keyboardists", "text": "List of keyboardists\n\nThe following are notable keyboard players, mostly in the fields of metal, rock, and jazz.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2135318", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2135318", "title": "John Heenan", "text": "John Heenan\n\nJohn Heenan may refer to:\n\n\nSee also\n"}
{"id": "2135319", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2135319", "title": "ITRON project", "text": "ITRON project\n\nThe ITRON project is the first of several sub-architectures of the TRON project.\n\nOriginally undertaken in 1984, ITRON is a Japanese open standard for a real-time operating system (RTOS) initiated under guidance of Ken Sakamura. This project aims to standardize the RTOS and related specifications for embedded systems, particularly small-scale embedded systems. The ITRON RTOS is targeted for consumer electronic devices, such as mobile phones and fax machines. Various vendors sell their own implementations of the RTOS.\n\nITRON, and µITRON (sometimes also spelled uITRON or microITRON) are the name of RTOS specifications coming out of ITRON projects. 'µ' means that the particular specification is meant for the smaller 8-bit or 16-bit CPU targets. Specifications are available for free. Commercial implementations are available, and offered under many different licenses. On 10 November 2017, the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers acquired ownership of the 16- and 32- bit uITRON from TRON Forum.\n\nA few sample sources exist, and there are many commercial source offerings, too.\n\nExamples of open source RTOSes incorporating an API based on µITRON specification are eCos and RTEMS.\n\nITRON specification is meant for hard real-time embedded RTOS.\n\nIt is very popular in the embedded market, as there are many applications for it, i.e., devices with the OS embedded inside.\n\nFor example, there is an ACM Queue interview with Jim Ready, founder of MontaVista (realtime linux company), \"Interview with Jim Reddy\", April 2003, ACM Queue. He says in the interview, \"The single, most successful RTOS in Japan historically is µITRON. This is an indigenous open specification led by Dr. Ken Sakamura of the University of Tokyo. It is an industry standard there.\" \nMany Japanese digital cameras, for example, have use ITRON specification OS. Toyota automobile has used ITRON specification OS for engine control.\n\nSupported CPUs are numerous. ARM, MIPS, x86, FR-V and many others including CPUs supported by open source RTOS eCos and RTEMS, both of which include the support for µITRON compatible APIs.\n\nITRON's popularity comes from many factors, but one factor is the notion of \"loose standardization\": the API specification is at the source level, and does not specify binary API compatibility. This makes it possible for implementers to make use of features of the particular CPU model to which the implementation is targeted. The developer even has the freedom of choosing to pass the parameters using a consolidated packet, or separate parameters to API (system call, library call, etc.). Such freedom is important to make the best use of not so powerful 8-bit or 16-bit CPUs. This makes keeping the binary compatibility among different implementations impossible. This led to the development of T-Kernel in the 2000s in order to promote binary compatibility for middleware distribution.\n\nITRON specification promotion was done by the various companies which sell the commercial implementations. There was also an NPO TRON Association that promoted the specification by publishing it as well as other TRON specification OSes. But since the first quarter of 2010, it has become part of T-Engine Forum, another non-profit organization that promotes other operating system such as the next generation RTOS, T-Kernel.\n\nT-Kernel is the name of the specification and at the same time refers to the single implementation based on the authorized source code available from T-Engine Forum for free under T-License. So T-Kernel doesn't suffer from the binary API compatibility.\n\nJTRON (Java TRON) is a sub-project of ITRON to allow it to use the Java platform.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2135342", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2135342", "title": "Thomas Williams (cartoonist)", "text": "Thomas Williams (cartoonist)\n\nThomas Watson Williams (17 October 1940 – 8 May 2002), was an English cartoonist.\n\nBorn in Stockton-on-Tees, Tom Williams attended art college in Newcastle in the early 1960s. He became an animator for leading British animation studio Halas & Batchelor shortly after leaving college.\n\nIn the early 1970s he left the world of cartoon animation & began illustrating in the hugely popular British comics published by Fleetway.\n\nAmongst the titles he illustrated were \"Shiver and Shake\", \"Whizzer and Chips\", \"Cor!!\" and \"Monster Fun\" where he drew one of his most celebrated characters Creature Teacher.\n\nTowards the end of the Seventies Williams moved to IPC rivals, D.C. Thomson where he worked on all the famous titles including of course \"The Beano\" & \"The Dandy\".\n\nAn extremely versatile & talented cartoonist he was able to copy the styles of many of the regular artists & produce strips for publications like the \"Beano Annual\" & the fledgling mini comic books that were emerging at the time.\n\nHe was heavily involved in the launch of \"Nutty\" where he drew the Peter Pest & Stevie Starr strips.\n\nIn a long & varied career he also produced cartoon strips for the British Girl Guide Magazine, many of the UK local & tabloid newspapers & football programmes. He was also often commissioned to produce cartoons for advertising purposes.\n"}
{"id": "2135344", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2135344", "title": "Richard Arkwright junior", "text": "Richard Arkwright junior\n\nRichard Arkwright junior (19 December 1755 – 23 April 1843), the son of Sir Richard Arkwright of Cromford, Derbyshire, was the financier (creditor) of Samuel Oldknow of Marple and Mellor and a personal friend. His son Captain Arkwright married Francis Kemble, daughter of the theatre manager Stephen Kemble.\n\nRichard Arkwright junior was born in Bolton. His mother, Patience Holt, died when he was only a few months old, and his father, Sir Richard Arkwright, raised him on his own until he was six, then married Margaret Biggensin, with whom he had a daughter, Susan. The couple divorced a few years later, but Richard Arkwright senior tried to follow the education of his children.\n\nSir Richard had earlier patented the water frame, a roller-spinning machine powered by water, that turned textile spinning into a factory industry and in so doing founded the factory system of manufacture.\n\nRichard Arkwright junior followed in his father's footsteps, and he developed the factory system even further. He was an outstanding organiser of labour and machinery processing, ambitious, forceful and persevering.\n\nThe wealth of Arkwright, much greater than that of his father, was not only due to the textile industry. After his father died, much of the legacy was bequeathed to his daughter born of his second marriage, her grandchildren and various charities, while the rest, including a number of factories, was bequeathed to son Richard. He decided to invest in real estate and banks, and began to sell some factories to invest in government securities and real estate. This saved him from bankruptcy when a major economic depression descended upon Great Britain, after the defeat of Napoleon.\n\nIn 1804 he became a partner in the bank of John Toplis, and when the latter died in 1829, he took full possession of the company and financed local lords, contractors and governmental plans: like his father, he financed important works in the public transportation sector and railways, including the Cromford Canal. At his death his fortune amounted to over three million pounds, which made him the richest British man from the bourgeoisie.\n\nArkwright was the High Sheriff of Derbyshire in 1801.\n\nHis son Richard (1781–1832) was a member of parliament (MP) for Rye from 1813 to 1818, and again from 1826 to 1830.\n\nJoseph Wright of Derby painted portraits of the father and son, the latter along with the rest of the family. These two works illustrate the difference in wealth between the two generations. The father is sitting on an ordinary chair, behind his invention, the source of his new social status, whereas the other painting represents Richard junior, with his wife Mary and daughter Anne, all dressed in expensive clothes to the latest fashion with a view of the park of the family estate.\n\nThe painting of Richard junior and his family, painted in 1790, was intended as a pendant to Wright's portrait of Sir Richard, and was thought the best of the four paintings which hung in the Arkwright family estate dining room at Willersley Castle. This painting was on loan and in the collection of Derby Museum and Art Gallery, where it was exhibited next to the one representing his father. The painting was sold at Sotheby's on 29 November 2001.\n\nIn 2003, the painting was to be moved to the United States but the Derby Museum launched a petition to keep it in its home country. It is a cornerstone to the society. The Arkwright Society, also concerned about the loss of the painting, took an active part in this campaign and the picture eventually remained in England.\n"}
{"id": "2135345", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2135345", "title": "The Bees (band)", "text": "The Bees (band)\n\nThe Bees (known in the United States as A Band of Bees) are an English band from Ventnor on the Isle of Wight. Although their sound is generally classified as indie rock or psychedelic rock, the band have a colourful range of styles and influences, such as 1960s garage rock, country, reggae and jazz.\n\nThe Bees have released four albums: 2002's Mercury Prize-nominated \"Sunshine Hit Me\", its 2004 major label follow-up \"Free the Bees\" (which was recorded at Abbey Road Studios), and 2007's \"Octopus\". Their fourth album, \"Every Step's A Yes\", was released on 11 October 2010.\n\nThe first two albums featured songs that have been used in British television advertisements, which are partially responsible for the band's recognition: \"Sunshine Hit Me\"'s \"A Minha Menina\", a cover of an Os Mutantes track (originally by Jorge Ben), appeared in a Citroën car commercial and also an advert for Magners Irish Cider, whilst \"Chicken Payback\" and \"Wash in the Rain\", both from \"Free the Bees\", were incorporated in adverts for Sure Deodorant for Men and Sainsbury's, respectively. \"Chicken Payback\" was also used to introduce the Northern comic character Stan Hibbert on Sky's Soccer AM, as well as the 'bed' track for The Radcliffe and Maconie programme on BBC Radio 6 Music. The official video for \"Chicken Payback\" featured the band in an arcade-type dance game machine in a Japanese video arcade. The lead character, apparently a rock and roll dance diva, dances so quickly that his shoes catch fire. The song was used in a 60-second flagship advert produced by Karmarama commissioned by Age UK to launch the charity's 2011 \"Thank You\" campaign. It was performed by 81-year-old Joy Graham accompanied by a jazz orchestra and was directed by BAFTA winning director Becky Martin of Channel 4 sitcom \"Peep Show\".\n\nThe Bees supported Oasis in 2005, and Madness in December 2007 during their Christmas tour, and supported Paul Weller in the UK on selected dates of his \"Winter Arena Tour\".\nIn 2010, The Bees performed a set for \"The Sun\", covering \"We Speak No Americano\" and playing songs from their album, \"Every Step's A Yes\". Paul Butler appeared on stage at the Glastonbury Festival in 2010 with Devendra Banhart, after performing two sets of their own.\n\nIn 2011, The Bees supported Fleet Foxes on their UK tour.\n\nOne of the influences the Bees have cited is the mind-altering drink called ayahuasca. Butler came to drink this plant medicine with shamans in Peru after being introduced to it by Banhart. \"The whole thing has brought a lot of joy into my life. I think this kind of cleansing helps with your natural rhythm. Everyone has a song within them or a rhythm that is individual and personal only to you … and this kind of activity unlocks that.\"\n\nIn 2018, Fletcher and Parkin announced that they had formed a new group, , and that their debut album \"Jellies\" was set to be released through Heavenly Recordings on 5 July.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nDigital Only Release\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2135365", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2135365", "title": "Ashurst, Hampshire", "text": "Ashurst, Hampshire\n\nAshurst is a village in the New Forest district of Hampshire, England, which together with Colbury hamlet makes the parish of Ashurst and Colbury. Ashurst is on the A35 road near the Southampton conurbation. According to the 2001 census the parish had a population of 2,011, increasing to 2,093 at the 2011 Census. The parish is on the edge of the designated New Forest National Park area. The village has a campsite, some shops and a railway station. The parish is bounded to the west by Netley Marsh parish and the Bartley Water, to the north by the A326 road and Totton and Eling, and to the south by Denny Lodge parish in the New Forest.\n\nAshurst is close to the City of Southampton and is often considered an exurb of it, a large percentage of its population being commuters.\n\nMillvina Dean, the last survivor of the sinking of RMS Titanic, was living in Ashurst at the time of her death in May 2009 at the age of 97.\n\nAshurst has three pubs; 'The Happy Cheese', 'The Forest Inn' and 'The New Forest Hotel'. A pub named 'The Angry Cheese' used to be located opposite The Happy Cheese, across the road, which became a hairdressers and was eventually demolished to make way for new houses. The original Happy Cheese was a small hotel and restaurant owned by Micheal Leonard. It burned down in 1980 and was rebuilt as the current Happy Cheese pub several years later. In June 2010, The Forest Inn closed after the business went into liquidation. However, it reopened on 12 November 2010 under new management following total refurbishment.\n\nThere are five restaurants along the main road through Ashurst. These are: 'The Jumbo House' Chinese and English takeaway, the 'Little Friar' fish and chip shop, the 'Herb Pot Bistro' (serving many cuisines), The 'Asha' Indian and Bangladeshi restaurant and takeaway, and the 'Lite Bites' sandwich bar. There is also a vet, upholsterer, Post Office, newsagent, two hair salons, a car accessories shop and a car dealer. The post office closed at the end of January 2019.\n\nThere is also a Welcome food store, part of the Co-operative chain, located further along the main road towards Colbury.\n\nThere are two schools in Ashurst, Foxhills Infant School and Foxhills Junior School. Foxhills Infant School teaches pupils between the ages of four and seven and as of May 2011 had in total 210 pupils on roll. It shares its grounds with Foxhills Junior School, where many of the Infant School pupils progress onto. The Junior School was opened as a middle school in September 1977 when the buildings and facilities of the original Junior School, which had been established ten years previously, were substantially enlarged and extended to provide for the 8-12 middle school age range. In 1993, it became a Junior School once again taking in children aged between 7 and 11. The school had around 332 children on roll in September 2010 and the current Headteacher is Andrew Shore. The majority of pupils come from the neighbouring Foxhills Infants School, Eling Infants School or Hazelwood First School. In its most recent Ofsted inspection report in 2010, it received a Grade 2 (good).\n\nBoth schools enjoy a 16-acre site with large playgrounds and lots of resources, including a 6-acre nature reserve with a pond. The reserve, during the last few years, has benefited from a £22K grant from the Millennium Heritage Fund which allowed construction paths and access routes for year-round use. The whole school building area is protected by CCTV and a private patrol company.\n\nAlso on the same site is Ashurst Pre-School that currently takes 86 children from two years nine months to five years on roll.\n\nAshurst is well served by transport links, the largest being the Ashurst railway station, run by South West Trains. The line runs from London Waterloo to Weymouth. Ashurst is also on the Bluestar 6 Bus Route (recently replacing the Wilts and Dorset's 56/56A route) that runs from Lymington to Southampton.\n\n"}
{"id": "2135372", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2135372", "title": "Business Education Initiative", "text": "Business Education Initiative\n\nThe Business Education Initiative (BEI) is a British study-abroad programme for students from Northern Ireland. It was run initially by the Department for Employment and Learning but, since 2006, is delivered by the British Council in association with the Department for Employment and Learning in Northern Ireland.\n\nEach year approximately 100 students are selected to study business related subjects at participating U.S. colleges and universities. The majority of the student's transport and living expenses are met by the British Council while the US host-institution grants the students a fee-waiver or scholarship.\n\nThe programme was established in 1994 and to date approximately 1,350 students have participated. It has proven to be a once in a lifetime experience for the majority of the students who have graduated from the program.\n\nApplications are accepted from pre-final year undergraduate degree or HND students studying at a Northern Irish higher education college or university.\n\nIn the past, the majority of students on the programme have come from the following institutions:\n\nA list of participating U.S. colleges and universities for the 2010-2011 academic year is available here \"(external link)\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2135373", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2135373", "title": "Melaka Maju Jaya", "text": "Melaka Maju Jaya\n\nMelaka Maju Jaya or Malacca, Onwards Come! is the official anthem of the Malaysia state of Melaka. \n\nIt was written and composed by Saiful Bahri, who also wrote the lyrics to the Selangor state anthem, \"Duli Yang Maha Mulia.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2135407", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2135407", "title": "Heinrich Boell", "text": "Heinrich Boell\n\nHeinrich Boell (13 September 1890, Wissembourg – 10 October 1947, Bonn) was a German organist and choir conductor.\n"}
{"id": "2135443", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2135443", "title": "Suining", "text": "Suining\n\nSuining (; Sichuanese Pinyin: Xunin; Sichuanese pronunciation: ; ) is a prefecture-level city of eastern Sichuan province in Southwest China. In 2002, Suining had a population of 658,798.\n\nSuining has at least one natural gas plant.\n\nSuining is located in the center of the Sichuan Basin and on the central reaches of the Fu River, bordering Chongqing, Guang'an and Nanchong to the east, Neijiang and Ziyang to the south, the provincial capital of Chengdu to the west, and Deyang and Mianyang to the north. Its prefecture, or administrative, area ranges in latitude from 30° 10' 50\" to 31° 10' 50\" N, or and in longitude from 105° 03' 26\" to 106° 59' 49\" E, or . While much of the prefecture is mountainous, the urban area itself, which occupies , is located on flat land.\n\nSuining has a monsoon-influenced humid subtropical climate (Köppen \"Cwa\") and is largely mild and humid, with four distinct seasons. Winter is short, mild, and foggy, though actual precipitation is low. January averages , and while frost may occur, snow is rare. Summers are long, hot and humid, with the daily average in July and August around , with August being slightly warmer. Rainfall is light in winter and can be heavy in summer, and 75% of the annual total occurs from May to September.\n\nSuining is a booming city with a wide range of roles, not just limit to the Excellent Tourism City of China, but also include the Finance and Ecological City of China, the National Landscape City, the National Hygiene City, and the Global Green City.\n\nAccording to local legend, Suining is the Hometown of Guanyin and her sisters. A folk song declares that one resides at Lingquan Temple, another at Guangde Temple, while only the third sister is afar, in the Putuo Mountains of Southern China.\n\nThere exists Lingquan Temple, Guangde Temple, and the Dead Sea, which are regarded as the 4A scenic zone. And there is also a Celadon Museum of Sichuan, which is referred to as a 3A scenic zone.\n\nThe percentage of land-covered forests of Suining is approximately 34%, it's the first Provincial Environmental Protection City in Sichuan.\n\n\nSuining is the junction for the Dazhou–Chengdu and Suining–Chongqing Railways, which collective form the western-most section of the Shanghai–Wuhan–Chengdu High-Speed Railway.\n\nHis lawyer was repeatedly prevented from meeting him in detention in stark violation of Chinese law.\n\n"}
{"id": "2135445", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2135445", "title": "G. E. M. de Ste. Croix", "text": "G. E. M. de Ste. Croix\n\nGeoffrey Ernest Maurice de Ste. Croix (; 8 February 1910 – 5 February 2000), known informally as Croicks, was a British historian who specialised in examining the classical era from a Marxist perspective. He was Fellow and Tutor in Ancient History at New College, Oxford from 1953 to 1977, where he taught scholars including Robin Lane Fox, Robert Parker and Nicholas Richardson.\n\nDe Ste. Croix (Sainte Croix) was born in Macau. His parents were also born in China to British expatriates. His father, Ernest Henry de Ste Croix, who died when he was four, was an official in the Chinese Customs. Their Huguenot ancestors fled to Jersey during the time of Louis XIV. \nHis mother, née Florence Annie MacGowan, was the daughter of a Protestant missionary.\n\nHe was educated at Clifton College, in Bristol. He left school at the age of 15 and became an articled clerk, which allowed him to train as a solicitor, without a degree in law. He was admitted as a solicitor in 1932 and practised until 1940.\n\nHe had a strong physique and was a talented tennis player, competing in the singles and doubles tournament at Wimbledon from 1930 to 1932.\n\nDuring World War II, he joined the Royal Air Force, and was stationed for a time in Egypt, where he had the opportunity to expand his knowledge of ancient languages.\n\nAfter the war ended, de Ste. Croix studied ancient history at University College, London. From 1950 to 1953 he taught at the London School of Economics and Birkbeck College, before being appointed a fellow of New College, Oxford. He lived at Oxford for the rest of his life. \nHe had a daughter, who predeceased him, from his first marriage (1932–59). He had two sons from his second marriage.\n\nWithin the circles of classical scholarship, de Ste. Croix—as an exponent of a Marxist epistemological approach—was frequently involved in debate with Sir Moses Finley, an advocate of Weberian societal analysis. The two often exchanged letters and their disagreements were always civil.\n\nDe Ste. Croix is best known for his books \"The Origins of the Peloponnesian War\" (1972) and \"The Class Struggle in the Ancient Greek World from the Archaic Age to the Arab Conquests\" (1981). He was also a noted contributor on the issue of Christian persecution between the reigns of the Roman Emperors Trajan and Diocletian. Of particular note in this regard are the articles written by de Ste. Croix and A. N. Sherwin-White, each challenging the opinions of the other. There were four in total, displaying the light-hearted banter evident also in de Ste. Croix's correspondence with Moses Finley.\n\nDe Ste. Croix's influential article \"The Character of the Athenian Empire\", which first appeared in \"Historia: Zeitschrift für Alte Geschichte\" (1954, 3, pp. 1–41), provoked a fresh debate about the nature of the Delian League and the Athenian Empire which continues to this day. The article was based on a paper \"The Alleged Unpopularity of the Athenian Empire\" delivered to the London Classical Association on 14 June 1950.\n\n\"The Origins of the Peloponnesian War\" made several major contributions to scholarship on the subject, the major one being a reinterpretation of the Megarian Decree, passed by the Athenian Ekklesia in 432 BC. Most scholarship hitherto had considered the decree to involve economic sanctions by excluding the Megarian state and Megarian traders from access to ports throughout the Athenian Empire. De Ste. Croix instead interpreted it as a religious sanction (drawing an analogy with the Spartan demand—in response to the Megarian Decree and other Athenian policies — that Athens expel some religiously-tainted citizens). De Ste. Croix maintained that the sanction was exercised not to hurt the Megarians—which it could not do, given the nature of trade and economics in the ancient world, but on religious grounds felt to be genuine by the Athenians. This argument has not achieved general acceptance among historians.\n\n\"The Class Struggle in the Ancient Greek World\" was an attempt to establish the validity of a historical materialist analysis of the ancient Greek and Roman world. It covers the period roughly from Greek pre-classical times to the Arab conquest. Part one addresses fundamental topics. After an expository plan chapter II (\"Class, Exploitation, and Class Struggle\") begins with an apologia of De Ste. Croix's understanding of basic classical Marxist theory (§ I \"The nature of class society\") and some specific terms (§ II \"'Class', 'exploitation', and 'the class struggle' defined\"). The remainder of Part One is a detailed analysis of these concepts applied to the Ancient Greek World (Chs. III \"Property and the Propertied\" and IV \"Forms of Exploitation in the Ancient Greek World, and the Small Independent Producer\").\n\nPart II contains the historical analysis per se and begins (Ch. V \"The Class Struggle in Greek History on the Political Plane\") with an exposition of how the economic processes addressed in part I lead to a gradual but complete eradication of Greek democracy by the middle of the Roman principate. The remaining chapters (VI \"Rome the Suzerain\", VII \"The Class Struggle on the Ideological Plane\", and VIII \"'The Decline and Fall' of the Roman Empire: an Explanation\") focus primarily on Rome and put forth the thesis that it was the increasing dependence on slave labor and diminishment of what would be considered in a modern context the middle classes that was the actual cause of the collapse. There is also a lengthy discussion of the significance of the mode by which surplus value is generated. De Ste. Croix makes the point that the \"mode of surplus extraction\" is not necessarily the same as the mode of production engaged in by a majority of the population. Specifically, that while a relatively small portion of the work force were slaves, Rome under the principate nonetheless became essentially a slave society.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2135448", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2135448", "title": "Dream Street (Janet Jackson album)", "text": "Dream Street (Janet Jackson album)\n\nDream Street is the second album by American musician Janet Jackson, released on October 23, 1984, by A&M Records. More pop than her debut album's \"bubblegum soul\" feel, the album was not the runaway success that Janet's father Joseph thought it would be, peaking at No. 147 on the \"Billboard\" 200 in 1984. The album did have one modest hit for Jackson, the Top 10 R&B single, \"Don't Stand Another Chance\", produced by brother Marlon. Also, the video for the song \"Dream Street\", her first music video, was shot during the shooting of the TV show \"Fame\".\n\nWith a two-out-of-five star rating, Ed Hogan with AllMusic commented retrospectively, saying \"A listen to Janet Jackson's \"Dream Street\" brings to mind remembrances of the then-teenaged singer's appearances on American Bandstand [...] The first single, \"Don't Stand Another Chance,\" was a family affair, produced by brother Marlon Jackson with vocal ad-libs by Michael Jackson. It was a Top Ten R&B hit during the summer of 1984. The extended 12\" mix rocks, showcasing outstanding synth work by John Barnes. Other standouts are the smeary Minneapolis funk cut \"Pretty Boy\" produced by Jesse Johnson, and both \"Hold Back the Tears\" and \"If It Takes All Night\" are prime examples of pleasing '80s pop.\"\n\nKen Tucker with \"The Philadelphia Inquirer\" gave it a \"fair\" rating, calling it \"A small but pleasant surprise: The Jacksons' youngest sister has come up with a more consistently entertaining album than her brothers' \"Victory\" record. Most \"Dream Street\" songs have a glossy pop sheen, and Janet's duet with English pop star Cliff Richard, \"Two to the Power of Love,\" is catchy, if totally forgettable. Most of the time Janet favors slick disco rhythms that are easy to listen to.\"\n\n\"Dream Street\" sold 21,320 copies between 1991 and April 2007 according to Nielsen Soundscan, while its sales through the BMG Music Club stand at 44,000 as of 2003. But the majority of the sales occurred before Soundscan began tracking sales in the US in 1991. The album peaked at 147 in the United States and failed to chart internationally.\n\n\"Dream Street\" is both the lowest charting studio album of Janet Jackson's career in the US, and her only studio album to not spawn any hits on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 chart.\n\nA song called \"Start Anew\" was written for the album by Ralph McCarthy, Yuji Toriyama, but was not included on the track list. It was released as an off-album single in Japan on October 11, 1985, with the B-sides \"Hold Back the Tears\" (7\") and an extended version (12\"). The song was later included on the Japanese edition of \"Control.\"\n\nAdapted from AllMusic.\n"}
{"id": "2135466", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2135466", "title": "Samuel Oldknow", "text": "Samuel Oldknow\n\nSamuel Oldknow (1756–1828) was an English cotton manufacturer.\n\nSamuel Oldknow Jnr, the eldest son of Samuel Oldknow Sr and Margery Foster, was born 5 October 1756 in Anderton, near Chorley, Lancashire, and died 18 September 1828 at Mellor Lodge, Derbyshire. He had an younger sister named Elizabeth (1758-1762) [according to the grave at Rivington Unitarian Chapel] and a brother, Thomas (c.1755/56-1791 d.aged 35 according to the grave at Mellor Parish Church). Oldknow was educated at the local Rivington Grammar School and later served as an apprentices in his uncle’s draper’s shop in Nottingham. His family were members of the Rivington Unitarian Chapel, where his father was interred in 1759 at the age of 25. Following the death of his father, Oldknow's mother Margery continued to live with the children at Roscoe Lowe Farm, one of the properties she had inherited from her father Thomas Foster a local yeoman. Margery later (in 1770) married John Clayton, a farmer, with whom she had three children: Margery, Samuel and John. Oldknow never married; he was at one point in his life engaged to marry the daughter (and heiress) of Peter Drinkwater a textile manufacturer of Manchester, who in 1794 had bought the Manor of Prestwich. The engagement was called off as his business declined and Oldknow died a bachelor.\n\nOldknow continued to have close connections to Rivington. In 1779 he purchased a number of spinning mules (also known as Hall i' th' Wood wheels, invented by Samuel Crompton of Bolton) suitable for use in the manufacture of muslin. He obtained finance of £1,000 from Abraham Crompton, Esq of Chorley Hall with whom he had both church and seemingly some family connection. By 1781 Oldknow had entered into partnership with his brother, Thomas, and he returned to live at Anderton in 1782, expanding into the manufacture of cotton goods. The Oldknow brothers' fabrics became favoured in London, where they formed a business agreement with the merchant Samuel Salte; this was the start of his rise to great success.\n\nOldknow used the putting-out system of production in Anderton near Rivington, whereby raw cotton was distributed to spinners and yarn to weavers who worked in their homes and workshops. The finished cloth was then returned to Oldknow's warehouse for checking and payment. This system was not suited to muslin manufacturing due to production levels and he was forced to purchase yarn from spinners who had taken advantage of mechanised production, such as Richard Arkwright\n\nIn 1784, financed by a loan of £3,000 from Arkwright, Oldknow joined the great cotton boom in Stockport. There he purchased a house, warehouse and land on Upper Hillgate from Giles Walmsley; allowing him to increase production at lower costs. He concentrated on weaving 50-70 count muslins and calicoes using the putting out system employing up to 300 weavers. Oldknow obtained yarn from a large number and variety of small spinners; some having a single jenny at home to others who had small factories with several mules. By 1786 he had become the foremost muslin manufacturer in Britain, with 300 skilled weavers using 500 looms at Stockport and 159 weavers at Anderton. Oldknow's profits were £17,000 for each year in 1786 and 1787. Quality was an issue. In 1790 mules started to be powered from lineshafts and in the following year Oldknow established his own steam-powered spinning factory at Stockport mills at Hillgate producing 120 count. The Boulton and Watt engine was rated at 8 hp. There was a smaller factory at Carrs in Stockport; a bleaching plant at Heaton Mersey and finishing factories at Bullock Smithy and Waterside in Disley. He continued to keep warehouses at Anderton and Manchester. Spinning worked on the factory system, while weaving operated by putting out. Slowly, ancillary processes such as warping started to be done in the factory by Oldknow, and then weavers were encouraged to move their looms into the loom house before the final stage came when Oldknow provided the looms and employed the weavers on a wage. \nIn 1787 Oldknow began the purchase large areas of land at Mellor where the first mill, completed in 1790, created work for 2000 people. This new mill used the first Boulton and Watt steam engine for turning the winding machine. Mellor Mill was a brick structure six storeys high and 400 feet long. As part of its construction the River Goyt was diverted, three millponds were created and a system of tunnels, channels and wheelpits built. The millponds still remain and are now known as the \"Roman Lakes\".\n\nIn 1793 Oldknow opened another mill at Mellor and began actively promoting construction of the Peak Forest Canal and the Peak Forest Tramway.\n\nOldknow's business greatly depended on his ability to raise credit (much of which was with the Arkwright family) and it was affected when the muslin market fell, partly as a result of the outbreak of hostilities with France. This downturn resulted in Oldknow mortgaging his estates in Mellor and Marple to Richard Arkwright Junior for a loan of £11,000. Oldknow also had to sell the Heaton Mersey and Anderton operations. Although the Hillgate factory did not come into full production until 1793, Oldknow was by then in financial crisis. He was forced to lease Hillgate in 1794 and had sold it by 1801.\n\nOldknow shifted his operations to Mellor, where he pursued his interest in high farming as well as running a spinning factory. By the early 19th Century the mill had over 500 employees, including a number of parish apprentices who were brought up from London. The mill at Mellor was never particularly profitable, and Oldknow's debt grew, reaching £206,000 at the time of his death.\n\nOldknow's other business ventures included farming, coal mining and production of lime at Mellor and Marple, and he improved communications with nearby industrial centres to sell his products.\n\nOldknow was one of the sponsors of the Peak Forest Canal, which opened in 1804. He also invested in a turnpike road which went to Stockport. Oldknow's farming activities allowed him to supply his workers with milk, meat, vegetables and coal and he also built housing for the workforce. Oldknow used his own system of paper money to pay his workforce which could be exchanged for goods at the village shop or for cash via third parties. He was known as a good employer.\n\nOldknow was a regular worshipper at the Church of All Saints, Marple and is credited for raising the funds for its restoration and rebuilding work which commenced in 1808 and was completed by 1811, with continued improvements to 1816. In 1826, Oldknow donated the land for the building of its Vicarage.\n\nOldknow also served as High Sheriff of Derbyshire in 1824.\n\nIn his later years, Oldknow was engaged in his farming interests and, shortly before his death, became President of Derbyshire Agricultural Society. At his death his factory was mortgaged to the Arkwrights and he played a minor role in its running.\n\nFollowing Oldknow's death on 18 September 1828 the factory passed to the Arkwrights. Oldknow's Factory was destroyed by fire in 1892 and although no ground level evidence still exists, there are underground parts of the old mill still present. Oldknow was buried at the Church of All Saints, Marple.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2135473", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2135473", "title": "1971 JVP insurrection", "text": "1971 JVP insurrection\n\nThe 1971 Janatha Vimukthi Peramuna insurrection (also known as the 1971 Revolt) was the first unsuccessful armed revolt conducted by the communist Janatha Vimukthi Peramuna (JVP) against the Government of Ceylon (now Sri Lanka) under Prime Minister Sirimavo Bandaranaike. The revolt began on 5 April 1971 and lasted till June 1971. The insurgents were able to capture and hold several towns and rural areas for several weeks until they were recaptured by the armed forces. Even though its first attempt to seize power in 1971 was quickly crushed by force, in 1987 this group launched another far more potent insurgency in the south, central and western regions of the country.\n\nCeylon (now Sri Lanka) became a dominion in 1948 with a conservative government formed under the premiership of D. S. Senanayake who had been instrumental in the negotiations with the British government that lead to self-rule. He founded the United National Party (UNP) by amalgamating three right-leaning pro-dominion parties which won a majority in parliament at the general election. The UNP was defeated in 1956 when S. W. R. D. Bandaranaike became prime minister on a wave of nationalist sentiment. His wife Sirimavo Bandaranaike entered politics following his assassination and became the world's first female prime minister in 1960. Due to successive governments, varying economic policies, regular strikes the economic out look of Ceylon in the 1960s had fallen below what it was when it gained independence in 1948. This had even lead to an attempted coup in 1962.\n\nDuring the late 1960s a movement named as the JVP was initiated by Rohana Wijeweera a former medical student from the Lumumba University and a former functionary of the Ceylon Communist Party. He had been at odds with party leaders and impatient with its lack of revolutionary purpose and formed his own movement in 1967 with like minded youth. Wijeweera's apparent expulsion from the Peking-wing of the Ceylonese Communist Party in 1966 triggered him to form his own party followed by his Marxist ideologies which eventually was referred to as the Sinhalese Marxist Group. Along with Wijeweera, three of his close supporters emerged as the leaders of this new movement, these were Sanath, Karunnarathe and Loku Athula. Initially identified simply as the New Left, this group drew on students and unemployed youths from rural areas, most of them in the 16- to 25-year-old range who felt that their economic interests had been neglected by the nation's leftist coalitions. The standard program of indoctrination, the so-called \"Five Lectures\", included discussions of Indian imperialism, the growing economic crisis, the failure of the island's communist and socialist parties and the need for a sudden, violent seizure of power.\n\nBetween 1967 and 1970 the group expanded rapidly, gaining control of the student socialist movement at a number of major university campuses which included the Samajawadi Sisiya Sangamaya (Socialist Student Union) and winning recruits and sympathizers within the armed forces, some of whom actually provided sketches of police stations, airports and military facilities that were important to the initial success of the revolt. In order to draw the newer members more tightly into the organization and to prepare them for a coming confrontation, Wijeweera opened \"education camps\" in several remote areas along the south and southwestern coasts. These camps provided training in Marxism-Leninism and basic military skills. The Central Committee was formed at Madampella in 1969. By 1970 a special CID unit under ASP K. C. de Silva was investigating the \"Che Guevara clique\", whom then opposition leader Sirima Bandaranaike had made a reference to in her May Day speech in 1970.\n\nWhile developing secret cells and regional commands, Wijeweera's group also began to take a more public role during the elections of 1970. His cadres campaigned openly for the United Front of Sirimavo Bandaranaike, but at the same time distributed posters and pamphlets promising violent rebellion if Bandaranaike did not address the interests of the proletariat. In a manifesto issued during this period, the group used the name Janatha Vimukthi Peramuna for the first time. Because of the subversive tone of these publications, the United National Party government had Wijeweera arrested before the elections in May, but the victorious Bandaranaike ordered his release in July 1970. In the politically tolerant atmosphere of the next few months, as the new government attempted to win over a wide variety of unorthodox leftist groups, the JVP intensified both the public campaign and the private preparations for a revolt. Although their group was relatively small, the members hoped to immobilize the government by selective kidnapping and sudden, simultaneous strikes against the security forces throughout the island. Some of the necessary weapons had been bought with funds supplied by the members. Majority of the party funding came from a string of robberies carried out by the outfit. For the most part, however, they relied on raids against police stations and army camps to secure weapons, and they manufactured their own bombs.\n\nBy 1970, the JVP had started recruiting and training cadre at camps in Kurunegala, Akmeemana, Tissamaharama, Elpitiya and Anuradhapura. Classes teaching the \"Five Lectures\" where being held in various parts of the island mostly in secluded locations such as cemeteries. They had raised a force of around 10,000 full-time members, however had stopped recruiting in 1971. The movement was based on cells of five members with a leader and there were several such cells in a police station area with an area leader. The area leaders selected a district leader to head the district. The district leaders made up the Central Committee. Above the Central Committee was the Politburo made up of 12 people including Wijeweera. All communication was by code by couriers, with the district secretaries communicating the messages from the Politburo met every two months in Colombo.\n\nThe cells began arming themselves with shotguns, with each member expected to have one with 10 cartridges as well as blue uniforms, military boots and haversacks. Home made bombs were prepared, with some exploding in the process. Such as on 17 December 1970, when Victor Ivan alias 'Podi Athula' lost his left hand and was critically wounded when grenade exploded while being tested. The JVP published its own paper, the \"Janatha Vimukthi\" (people's liberation) and carried out several robberies to raise funds such as the Okkampitiya bank robbery, the Badulla mail bag robbery, the Ambalangoda bank robbery and the York Street robbery. Its members were asked to raise funds using personal means.\n\nSince its formation in 1949, the Ceylon's armed forces functioned as an internal security force assisting the Ceylon Police Force during strikes and riots. Following the attempted coup in 1962, the armed forces had faced major cuts in funding and recruitment as well as joint operations. The armed forces were ill-equipped and not prepared for a large scale insurrection. The Ceylon Army had several infantry regiments armed with World War II-era weapons, armored cars, mortars and anti aircraft guns. It lacked tanks, field artillery, sub machine guns and other modern weapons; peace time ammunition stocks were found to be adequate to sustain only one week of offensive operations. The Royal Ceylon Navy, which had suffered the most from the fall out of the attempted coup with recruitment frozen till 1969, had only a single frigate in its fleet. It had to deploy its crew on shore duty and were thereby incapable of preventing the JVP from gaining aid by sea. The Royal Ceylon Air Force had mothballed its jet trainers after plans for introducing jet fighters where scrapped and was limited to a small fleet of light transport aircraft and helicopters, which made up two flying squadrons and a few pilots.\n\nThe Government received multiple warnings of the preparations undertaken by the JVP, yet failed to comprehend the scale of the insurrection that was about to unfold. This resulted in its unpreparedness to counter it. Early warnings came from the Police Criminal Investigation Department (CID), which had been traditionally tasked with internal security by the late 1969 and early 1970, when they had established the \"Che Guevara Desk\" under ASP K. C. de Silva. John Attygalle, the former Inspector General of Police who had been appointed special security advisor to the Ministry of External Affairs and Defence, submitted a report on the potential threat from the new group to Prime Minister Dudley Senanayake's government. The government instructed the police to arrest Wijeweera and he was taken in to custody in May 1970. However, following the 1970 general election, the newly elected Prime Minister Sirima Bandaranaike had Wijeweera released from police custody. Reports from the previous administration were overlooked. Her new administration undertook changes to the Police force, removing officers and disbanding units perceived to be loyal to the previous administration. These changes effected the CID. The new government was fearful of a potential coup against it from the security forces, lead by officers loyal to the previous administration. Bandaranaike's cousin and a volunteer officer, Captain Anuruddha Ratwatte was promoted Lieutenant Colonel and appointed commanding officer of the Army's Field Security Detachment tasked with identifying such officers. Captain Denzil Kobbekaduwa who lead the investigations instead reported that a more substantial treat to the government was posed from the JVP. Police investigations were started into bomb making factories.\n\nOn 27 February 1971 JVP held its last public rally before the insurrection at Colombo's Hyde Park, here Wijeweera stated that \"Let the revolution of the workers, farmers and soldiers be triumphant\". On 5 March 1971, after an accidental explosion in one of the JVP bomb factories killing five members, the police found 58 bombs in a hut in Nelundeniya, Kegalla District. Wijeweera went on to travel around the country, but was arrested on 13 March in Ampara by a special Police team and was later transferred to the Jaffna Prison. On 16 March the government declared a state of emergency, but no military preparedness or mobilization took place. On 2 April a meeting was held at the Sangaramaya (Temple) at Vidyodaya University. The meeting was held by the top leaders of the JVP politburo in response to a request by Wijeweera that posters and leaflets calling for his release be published, and that in the event of the insurgency starting, 500 cadres be sent to Jaffna to break him out of prison. That day the group made up of S.V.A.Piyathilaka, Lionel Bopage, Jayadeva Uyangoda, Sunanda Deshpriya, Loku Athula, W.T. Karunarathne, Susi L. Wickrama, Wijesena Vidanage alias Sanath, Somasiri Kumanayake, and Anura Ranjith Kurukulasooriya decided that all police stations in the country would be attacked on the night of 5 April at 11:00 pm. Since the JVP had considered that local police stations were the governments principle element of power locally. They hoped to remove this presence of power and see the local populaces raise up in their support bring about a revolution. The district leader for Monaragala and Wellawaya was not present at the meeting, the decision to attack was conwayed to them via a telegram that read \"\"JVP Appuhamy expired. Funeral 5.\"\"'. The Wellawaya leader took the order to attack on the morning of 5 April, and not the evening as had been agreed at the meeting.\n\nIt was discussed and agreed on 2 April, a countrywide insurrection would be launched on 5 April evening. Four important missions were planned and assigned. Major responsibly of these attacks were entrusted to the student wing, which Wijeweera had once called the \"Red Guard\". The first of four important missions, was the attack on the Panagoda Cantonment, which was one of the largest military installations in the country and housed a large arsenal. Piyasiri was in charge of this attack with 800 students, divided into groups of twenty five each assigned to the task. A smaller attack was to be stage on RCyAF Katunayake. The second mission was to abduct the Prime Minister. Attack was to be lead by Nimal, Somawansa Amarasinghe, Sanath Kumar and Lal Pieries with over 50 students. Third mission was the capture of the city of Colombo under Bopage. Colombo was divided into five areas, Colombo South, Colombo North, Kandy Road, Colombo Central, and Kotte. The carders were to attack police stations along the way gaining arms and ammunition from these. Key targets were, Welikada Prison, Srawasthi, Radio Ceylon and several residences of government officials such as Justice Minister, Felix Dias Bandaranaike; Army Commander and the IGP. The fourth mission was rescue Wijeweera from prison in Jaffna. \n\nThe planning for the countrywide insurrection was hasty and poorly coordinated; some of the district leaders were not informed until the morning of the uprising. At dawn (5.20 am) on 5 April 1971 the Wellawaya police station came under attack with two police constables were killed. The Wellawaya attack had preempted the initial wave of simultaneous attacks planned by the JVP. They lost the key element of surprise. Following news from the attack in Wellawaya, an alerted government began frantic preparations to face further attacks. A curfew was declared and all police stations were warned of an impending attack, the armed forces began to mobilize by Major General D. S. Attygalle, Commander of the Ceylon Army. After dawn on 5 April, General Attygalle ordered army units of the Gemunu Watch from Diyatalawa to Wellawaya, where the initial attack had taken place. Major Gratian Silva, Army HQ GSO 1 (Ops) and DIG Rudra Rajasingham flew by helicopter to Wellawaya that morning to inspect the ground situation in Wellawaya reporting Attygalle and the Inspector General of Police (IGP). At 7 am, Radio Ceylon reported the attack and warned for further attacks. \n\nSeveral JVP cadres were arrested by the police at Viharamahadevi Park on 5 April as they prepared to abduct or assassinate the Prime Minister at her private residence in Rosemead place. This was follows by a quick city wide curfew and more arrests in Kotahena and Borella with large numbers of bombs, weapons and medical equipment meant to be used in the planned attack on the city. At 8 PM, Major General Attygalle, IGP Stanley Senanayake, Lieutenant Colonel Anuruddha Ratwatte arrived at the Prime Minister's private residence and briefed her on the attack at Wellawaya and impending attack that night. Soon after, Prime Minister left to Temple Trees Prime Minister's official residence accompanied by General Attygalle, Captain Wijeratne and her normal escort. Thereafter Temple Trees became the nerve center for government operations during the crisis and had its security strengthened. It also became a refuge for ministers most of whom were from leftist parties. Helicopter patrols around the capital began as rumors started that the JVP was marching on Colombo.\n\nWith a curfew was imposed and suspects being arrested some of the JVP leaders went into hiding. However the attack commenced as planned 92 police stations across the country were attacked simultaneously by JVP groups armed with shotguns, bombs and Molotov and five, Deniyaya, Uragaha, Rajangane, Kataragama and Warakapola overrun by the insurgents and 43 abandoned by the police for \"strategic reasons\" in the days that followed. Fifty-seven police stations were damaged. The insurgents cut telephone and power lines, blocked roads with trees. The Hanwella police station close to Colombo came under attack on the 6 April and was beaten off with army reinforcements from the Panagoda Cantonment. The No. 4 Squadron of the Royal Ceylon Air Force deployed its three Bell 206A JetRanger helicopters, which began flying missions to remote police stations to supply the stations with weapons and ammunition. In the following days, the helicopters returned wounded to hospitals. RCyAF Ekala also came under attack. The police withdrew its personnel from smaller police stations. By 10 April the rebels had taken control of Matara District and the city of Ambalangoda in Galle District, and came close to capturing the remaining areas of Southern Province with exception of Galle and Matara which had two old Dutch colonial forts and small army garrisons. Howevr, none of the four major missions planned by the JVP succeeded. The abduction of the Prime Minister failed with arrests of the JVP carders in Colombo on 5 April. Attack on the Panagoda Cantonment never took place as the carders didn't form up and with it the attack on Colombo didn't take place. The attack on Jaffna Prison took place on the night of 5 April with the aim of rescuing Wijeweera. It failed when police reinforcements arrived and arrested many of the attackers, while some were killed. Attacks on the Jaffna police station and Karainagar naval detachment also failed with four of the insurgents were killed on 6 April at Elephant pass.\n\nThe government forces responded with first securing the capital Colombo; other cities and large towns with sizable police and military garrisons. A road blocks were set up, and bridges, ports, and airports were secured, overstretching the small armed forces which had stared mobilizing its reservists. Army, navy and air force personnel were deployed on ground duty in a defensive posture at first. In most areas, the police were able to hold out interdependently. Within the first few days the government felt the situation was dire since it was found that its small arms ammunition would run out in a week and fears of infiltration of the armed forces by the JVP members appeared when a navy rating shot fellow ratings in Jaffna. \n\nDuring this time, the JVP took advantage of the weakness of the armed forces and police by capturing large areas of the country uncontested. Many army convoys were ambushed and several initial offensives were pushed back in areas like Matara, where the local member of parliament, Sumanapala Dahanayake, was wounded accompanying the first joint army and police expedition into rebel held areas in Matara.\n\nDesperately short of weapons and ammunition, Bandaranaike issued a distress call to friendly countries for support via telegram. The response from many governments were swift. The United Kingdom was the first respond positively, and allowed the Ceylonese government use an Air Ceylon Trident to ferry small arms and ammunition from its bases in Singapore. Pakistan responded with airlifting supplies, troops and helicopters to Ratmalana Airport and took over its defence releasing Ceylonese troops for other duties. India did not properly receive the cable and the Indian High Commissioner in Ceylon was sent back to his country carrying the message for aid from the Government of Ceylon on 13 April. Units from the Indian Army Southern Command were airlifted from Bangalore and Madras (Chennai), to RCyAF Katunayake and five Chetak helicopters 104 Helicopter Squadron followed with more arms and ammunition. 104 Helicopter Squadron logged 573 flying hours spread across as many as 1122 sorties in Ceylon. 150 Indian Gorkhas took over the guarding RCyAF Katunayake and the Indian Navy deployed four frigates setting up a naval cordon around Ceylon since the Royal Ceylon Navy had deployed its sailors on ground operations and harbor defence, latter was later taken over by Indian and Pakistani troops.\n\nThe RAF heavy transports flew in six Bell 47-G2 helicopters on 17 April, and also ammunition purchased from Singapore. The government also received aid from the Soviet Union, with it flying in five Mikoyan-Gurevich MiG-17F fighter bombers, a MiG-15 UTI trainer, as well as two Kamov Ka-26 helicopters. Soviet Union also sent 12 light mortars, Yugoslav supplied 4 76 mm mountain guns and China supplied 30 85 mm Type 60 anti-tank guns. The Soviet Union donated 10 BTR-152s, while Ceylon bought 18 Ferret armoured cars from the UK and received several Alvis Saladins. China supplied 30,000 automatic and semi-automatic rifles and Australia provided 5,000 semi-automatic rifles.\n\nWithin days of the start of the insurrection, the armed forces began offensive operations after the initial wave of attacks had withered away. Personnel from all three armed services deployed for offensive operations with mobilization of reservists, most of whom were World War II veterans, and with regular troops freed from guard duty as Pakistani and Indian troops took up defense of many key installations. Former Inspector General of Police (IGP) S.A. Dissanayake was appointed Additional Permanent Secretary to the Ministry of External Affairs and Defence and coordinated the government's defence activities from the situation room at Temple Trees. Local military coordinating officers were appointed from the three branches of the armed forces for each district, tasked with carrying out local counter-insurgency operations. The RCyAF, took out of storage five Hunting Jet Provosts which had been mothballed in 1970, serviced and armed them in three days and flew them from RCyAF Chinabay to RCyAF Katunayake attacking rebel locations en route. Several weeks later the Jet Provosts were joined by the Bell 47-G2 in ground attack missions. With additional supplies flowing in government forces intensified its offensives into insurgent areas. The insurgent who had gained control of large parts of the island from its initial assault, failed to consolidate their holdings or expanding into other areas. Local committees would raise Red flag in the area once it was captured and did little else. Widespread looting and damaging of state property took place and several civilian were murdered by the insurgents. After three weeks of fighting, the government regained control of all but a few remote areas. In most cases the government regained control of townships, insurgent groups melted away in the jungles from which they continued to operate, with some of these pockets lasting into early 1972. The government issued two amnesties in May and June 1971, airdropping leaflets encouraging the insurgents to surrender. Without food, weapons and leadership many youths surrendered while other groups were surrounded and captured. Two of its leaders Sanath (Wijesena Vidanage) and Susil were killed in confrontations with the armed forces and Loku Athula who lead the remnants of his group into the jungles of Wilpathu was wounded and captured in a final confrontation. Large amounts of youth such detailed were sent to detention in rehabilitation camps for months until they were released. Official figure of persons arrested numbered 5,0067 of which 1,117 were from Colombo. However some claim the numbers would be has high as 20,000. The government imposed a strict censorship during the period with all domestic and foreign news dispatches censored by the Competent Authority.\n\nThe official death toll was 1200, but unofficial figures reliably estimated it to be around 4000–5000. 41 civilians were killed by the insurgents. 37 police officers were killed and 195 wounded. 26 armed services personnel were killed (19 army, 4 air force and 3 navy) and 130 were wounded (87 army, 15 air force and 28 navy) from 1971 to 1972.\n\nUnder the advice of Justice Minister, Felix Dias Bandaranaike, the Prime Minister appointed an Investigation Unit headed by retired IGP Aleric Abeygunawardena to carryout the investigations to prosecute the captured insurgents. The unit was made up of crown counsels and police officers. The crown counsels seconded to it from the Attorney-General’s Department were granted the rank of Assistant Superintendent of Police, in order to take statements of suspects which would be admissible in court. It soon became apparent that it would take years to convict the large number of suspects in custody within the normal procedure and laws of the day.\n\nThe Criminal Justice Commission was thus established by the government to prosecute the detained rebels in a expedient manner. It was composed of Chief Justice H N G Fernando (Chairman), Justice A. C. Alles, Justice V T Thamotheram, Justice H Dheragoda and Justice T. W. Rajaratnam. In 1975 Wijeweera was sentenced to lifetime imprisonment later amended to 20 years rigorous imprisonment. Many of the surviving leaders of the JVP received prison sentences, other than those who turned crown witness and gained pardons, including two of the JVP leaders Loku Athula and Somasiri Kumanayake. Most of the youth in rehabilitation camps were released.\n\nThe insurgency caused 2.7 million rupees worth of damaged to public and private property, while other institutions suffered the loss of 3 million rupees and the RCyAF lost an aircraft. Over 450 million earmarked for capital development was not spent on the indent task due to the insurgency. Ceylon severed diplomatic ties with North Korea in 1971 based on allegations that it supported the JVP, diplomatic relations have not been reestablished since then. Under the six years of emergency rule that followed the uprising, the JVP remained dormant. After the victory of the United National Party in the 1977 elections, however, the new government attempted to broaden its mandate with a period of political tolerance. Wijeweera was freed, the ban on the party was lifted and the JVP entered the arena of legal political competition. As a candidate in the 1982 presidential elections, Wijeweera finished fourth, with more than 250,000 votes (as compared with Jayewardene's 3.2 million). By the late the 1980s the JVP had started a second insurrection lasting from 1987 to 1989. This was more of a low intensity conflict than an open revolution as the first insurrection in 1971.\n\nThere are two categories of casual factors. The first is structural: educated unemployment. With rapid population increase and relatively slow economic growth left most youth, who were the beneficiaries of free education, unemployed or engaged in jobs which did not meet their expectation. The unemployment rate was too high when compared to the output of the education system, which the labour market failed to absorb. The second signifying factor is a sequence of political factors: President Jayawardena’s political strategy of oppressing the opposition; the weakness induced in the main opposition party (SLFP); the subtle exclusion of those who lack political connections from access to state patronage; the Indo-Sri Lankan Peace Accord and the entry of Indian troops to Sri Lanka.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2135475", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2135475", "title": "Anthony Heald", "text": "Anthony Heald\n\nPhilip Anthony Mair Heald (born August 25, 1944) is an American actor known for portraying Hannibal Lecter's jail nemesis, Dr. Frederick Chilton, in \"The Silence of the Lambs\" and \"Red Dragon\", and for playing assistant principal Scott Guber in David E. Kelley's \"Boston Public\".\n\nHeald also had a recurring role as Judge Cooper on Kelley's \"The Practice\" and \"Boston Legal\".\n\nHeald was born in New Rochelle, New York, the son of an editor. He graduated from Michigan State University in 1971.\n\nHeald has worked extensively on Broadway and has been twice nominated for the Tony Award for his work as Lord Evelyn Oakleigh in \"Anything Goes\" (1988) and Terrence McNally's \"Love! Valour! Compassion!\" (1995). He also appeared in McNally's \"The Lisbon Traviata\" (1989), \"Inherit the Wind\" (1998), \"Deep Rising\" (1998), and \"Lips Together, Teeth Apart\" (1991).\n\nHeald has recorded over 60 audio books/books on tape, including works as varied as \"Where the Red Fern Grows\", \"The New York Times\" bestsellers such as \"The Pelican Brief\" (in the film adaptation of which he also played a villainous lawyer), \"Jurassic Park\" and \"Midnight in the Garden of Good and Evil\", several works by science fiction writer Philip K. Dick, as well as a sizable number of titles in the \"Star Wars\" audio book library.\n\nHe made brief appearances in \"Miami Vice\" (\"The Prodigal Son\"), \"\" (2006 film), and the \"Cheers\" series finale \"One for the Road\". He later appeared on the \"Cheers\" spin-off \"Frasier\" in a recurring role. He appeared in \"Unaccompanied Minors\" as a distressed, Christmas-hating airport employee.\n\nHeald lives in Ashland, Oregon with his wife Robin (daughter of violist Karen Tuttle) and children Zoe and Dylan. He has converted to Judaism, his wife's faith. He regularly performs in productions of the Oregon Shakespeare Festival. During the 2010 season of the Oregon Shakespeare Festival, Heald played Shylock in Shakespeare's \"The Merchant of Venice\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2135489", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2135489", "title": "Southern Highlands", "text": "Southern Highlands\n\nSouthern Highlands may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2135548", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2135548", "title": "Generosity", "text": "Generosity\n\nGenerosity (also called largess) is the virtue of being liberal in giving, often as gifts. Generosity is regarded as a virtue by various world religions, and is often celebrated in cultural and religious ceremonies. Scientific investigation into generosity has examined the effect of a number of scenarios and games on individuals' generosity, and potential links with neurochemicals such as oxytocin, and relationship with similar feelings, such as that of empathy.\n\nGenerosity is sometimes used to denote charity, (the virtue of giving without expecting anything in return). It can involve offering time, assets or talents to aid someone in need. In times of natural disaster, relief efforts are frequently provided, voluntarily, by individuals or groups acting unilaterally in making gifts of time, resources, goods, money, etc. Generosity is a guiding principle for many registered charities, foundations, and non-profit organizations.\n\nAlthough the term generosity often goes hand-in-hand with charity, many people in the public's eye want recognition for their good deeds. Donations are needed to support organizations and committees, however, generosity should not be limited to times of great need such as natural disasters and extreme situations.\nThe modern English word \"generosity\" derives from the Latin word \"generōsus\", which means \"of noble birth\", which itself was passed down to English through the Old French word \"généreux\". The Latin stem \"gener–\" is the declensional stem of \"genus\", meaning \"kin\", \"clan\", \"race\", or \"stock\", with the root Indo-European meaning of \"gen\" being \"to beget\". The same root gives the words \"genesis\", \"gentry\", \"gender\", \"genital\", \"gentile\", \"genealogy\", and \"genius\", among others.\nMost recorded English uses of the word \"generous\" up to and during the sixteenth century reflect an aristocratic sense of being of noble lineage or high birth. To be generous was literally a way of complying with nobility. \n\nDuring the 17th century, however, the meaning and use of the word began to change. \"Generosity\" came increasingly to identify not literal family heritage but a nobility of spirit thought to be associated with high birth—that is, with various admirable qualities that could now vary from person to person, depending not on family history but on whether a person actually possessed the qualities. In this way \"generosity\" increasingly came in the 17th century to signify a variety of traits of character and action historically associated (whether accurately or not) with the ideals of actual nobility: gallantry, courage, strength, richness, gentleness, and fairness. In addition to describing these diverse human qualities, \"generous\" became a word during this period used to describe fertile land, the strength of animal breeds, abundant provisions of food, vibrancy of colors, the strength of liquor, and the potency of medicine.\n\nThen, during the 18th century, the meaning of \"generosity\" continued to evolve in directions denoting the more specific, contemporary meaning of munificence, open–handedness, and liberality in the giving of money and possessions to others. This more specific meaning came to dominate English usage by the 19th century. Over the last five centuries in the English speaking world, \"generosity\" developed from being primarily the description of an ascribed status pertaining to the elite nobility to being an achieved mark of admirable personal quality and action capable of being exercised in theory by any person who had learned virtue and noble character (Smith 2009).\n\nIn Buddhism, generosity is one of the Ten Perfections and is the antidote to the self-chosen poison called \"greed\". Generosity is known as dāna in the Eastern religious scriptures.\n\nIn Islam, Quran states that whatever one gives away generously, with the intention of pleasing God, He will replace it. God knows what is in the hearts of men. Say: “Truly, my Lord enlarges the provision for whom He wills of His slaves, and also restricts it) for him, and whatsoever you spend of anything (in God’s Cause), He will replace it. And He is the Best of providers.” (Quran 34:39)\n\nIn Christianity, in the Acts of the Apostles, Paul the Apostle reports that that Jesus had said that giving is better than receiving (Acts 20:35), although the gospels do not record this as a saying of Jesus. In his first letter to Timothy, Paul tells rich Christians that they must be \"generous and willing to share\". (1 Timothy 6:18) Later Christian tradition further developed the concept of the virtue of charity.\n\n\nअपूर्व: कोपि कोशोयं विद्यते तव भारति |व्ययतो वॄद्धिम् आयाति क्षयम् आयाति संचयात् ||\n\nResearch has shown that generosity is associated with empathy. In this research, by Paul J. Zak and colleagues and published in Public Library of Science ONE, the peptide oxytocin or placebo was given to about 100 men and then they made several decisions regarding money. One, the Dictator Game, was used to measure altruism by asking people to make a unilateral transfer of $10 they were given by the experimenters to a stranger in the lab; oxytocin had no effect on altruism.\n\nAnother task, the Ultimatum Game, was used to measure generosity. In this game, one person was endowed with $10 and was asked to offer some split of it to another person in the lab, all done by computer. If the second person did not like the split, he could reject it (for example, if it was stingy) and both people would get zero. In a clever twist, the researchers told participants they would be randomly chosen to be \"either\" the person making the offer or the person responding to it. This required the person making the offer to take the other's perspective explicitly. Generosity was defined as an offer greater than the minimum amount needed for acceptance. Oxytocin increased generosity 80% compared to those on placebo. In addition, oxytocin was quantitatively twice as important in predicting generosity as was altruism.\n\nResearch indicates that that higher-income individuals are less generous than poorer individuals, and that a perceived higher economic inequality leads higher-income individuals to be less generous.\n\nThe science of generosity initiative at the University of Notre Dame is investigating the sources, origins, and causes of generosity; manifestations and expressions of generosity; and consequences of generosity for both the givers and receivers involved. Generosity for the purposes of this project is defined as the virtue of giving good things to others empathycally and abundantly.\n\n"}
{"id": "2135621", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2135621", "title": "Judy Bolton Series", "text": "Judy Bolton Series\n\nThe Judy Bolton Mystery Series, created by Margaret Sutton, follows a realistic young woman who solves mysteries. Although the series was not quite as popular as Nancy Drew, Judy Bolton has been called a more complex and believable role model for girls. Judy was also unique in that halfway through the series, she married (something series book heroines rarely, if ever, did). The 38-volume series is the longest-lasting juvenile mystery series written by an individual author.\n\nIn September 2012, the 39th volume, \"The Strange Likeness\", was published by Applewood books, which has re-printed titles in the series since 1991. In 1968, Sutton had created the title and the beginnings of a plot outline of a mystery located in Panama; however co-authors Kate Duvall and Beverly Hatfield never saw the original outline and wrote the book instead from their original ideas, with the Sutton family's permission.\n\nThe mainstays of the series were Judy Bolton, auburn-haired girl detective; her brother, news reporter Horace Bolton; her parents, Doctor and Mrs. Bolton; and her loyal black cat, Blackberry. For most of the early volumes she was torn between suitors: the wealthy Arthur Farringdon-Pett, and the upstanding lawyer Peter Dobbs, before finally choosing Peter in volume 10. Her best friend was Peter's sister, Grace Dobbs, also known as Honey; her rival for Arthur's affections was Lorraine Lee. Judy was friends with Arthur's sister, Lois Farringdon-Pett, and one of her high-school archenemies was snobbish Kay Vincent. Judy also befriended a mill worker, Irene Lang, who later became Irene Meredith.\n\nJudy Bolton has been called a better feminist role model than Nancy Drew because \"Nancy Drew is more likely to uphold the ideological status quo, while Judy Bolton is more likely to restore moral rather than legal order, because her mysteries tend to emphasize human relationships over material possessions.\" Unlike Nancy Drew, Judy Bolton often enlists the aid of family members and friends in solving mysteries; she \"works in a collaborative way that subverts dominant values.\" \n\nJudy is emotional and self-doubting; for this reason she has been called a \"more believable\" female role model.\n\nAs a part of her collaborative approach, Judy is often defined in relation to men: as Dr. Bolton's daughter or later, as Peter Dobbs' wife.\n\nThere were 38 titles in the original Judy Bolton series, all copyrighted between 1932 and 1967. The final 12, particularly the last one, had limited printings and as a result are hard to find. Collectors often find themselves paying upwards of $200 for a volume in good condition. The series ended before the 39th book, \"The Strange Likeness\", could be published. According to author Margaret Sutton, the series was killed due not to poor sales, but to pressure from the Stratemeyer Syndicate. The Stratemeyer Syndicate wished to lessen competition for the Nancy Drew series. Pelagie Doane illustrated many of the early Judy Bolton books.\n\nDuring, and after, the course of the series, a number of translations were published internationally. Among these were Icelandic, Norwegian, Swedish, Danish and Spanish editions.\n\nIn 1997, three decades after Grosset & Dunlap issued the last Judy Bolton title, author Linda Joy Singleton completed a book that series creator Margaret Sutton had begun writing several years before. Once the first draft was finished, Singleton submitted it to Sutton for revisions, and the book that emerged from their collaboration carries the name of both co-authors. Chronologically, \"The Talking Snowman\" takes place during the Christmas season between the events described in volume 3 and volume 4, and thus is known to collectors as \"volume 3.5\".\n\nAnother title, \"The Whispering Belltower,\" was written by Kate Emburg with the encouragement of Margaret Sutton.\n\nIn 2012, with the permission of Margaret Sutton's family, co-authors Kate Duvall and Beverly Hatfield wrote \"The Strange Likeness\" based on Sutton's original title. The book, #39 in the Judy Bolton Mystery Series, was edited by Sutton's youngest daughter, Lindsay Sutton Stroh, and illustrated by another daughter, Marjorie Sutton Eckstein. \"The Mystery on Judy Lane\", the 40th entry in the series also written by Hatfield followed in 2018.\n\n1. \"The Vanishing Shadow (1932)\n2. \"The Haunted Attic (1932)\n3. \"The Invisible Chimes\" (1932)\n4. \"Seven Strange Clues\" (1932)\n5. \"The Ghost Parade\" (1933)\n6. \"The Yellow Phantom\" (1933)\n7. \"The Mystic Ball\" (1934)\n8. \"The Voice in the Suitcase\" (1935)\n9. \"The Mysterious Half Cat\" (1936)\n10. \"The Riddle of the Double Ring\" (1937)\n11. \"The Unfinished House\" (1938)\n12. \"The Midnight Visitor\" (1939)\n13. \"The Name on the Bracelet\" (1940)\n14. \"The Clue in the Patchwork Quilt\" (1941)\n15. \"The Mark on the Mirror\" (1942)\n16. \"The Secret of the Barred Window\" (1943)\n17. \"The Rainbow Riddle\" (1946)\n18. \"The Living Portrait\" (1947)\n19. \"The Secret of the Musical Tree\" (1948)\n20. \"The Warning on the Window\" (1949)\n\n21. \"The Clue of the Stone Lantern\" (1950)\n22. \"The Spirit of Fog Island\" (1951)\n23. \"The Black Cat's Clue\" (1952)\n24. \"The Forbidden Chest\" (1953)\n25. \"The Haunted Road\" (1954)\n26. \"The Clue in the Ruined Castle\" (1955)\n27. \"The Trail of the Green Doll\" (1956)\n28. \"The Haunted Fountain\" (1957)\n29. \"The Clue of the Broken Wing\" (1958)\n30. \"The Phantom Friend\" (1959)\n31. \"The Discovery at the Dragon's Mouth\" (1960)\n32. \"The Whispered Watchword\" (1961)\n33. \"The Secret Quest\" (1962)\n34. \"The Puzzle in the Pond\" (1963)\n35. \"The Hidden Clue\" (1964)\n36. \"The Pledge of the Twin Knights\" (1965)\n37. \"The Search for the Glowing Hand\" (1966)\n38. \"The Secret at the Sand Castle\" (1967)\n39. \"The Strange Likeness\" (2012)\n40. \"The Mystery on Judy Lane\" (2018)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2135639", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2135639", "title": "Red House Painters (Bridge)", "text": "Red House Painters (Bridge)\n\nRed House Painters (also known as Bridge or Red House Painters II to distinguish it from the first eponymous album, also known as \"Rollercoaster\" or \"Red House Painters I\") is the third album by the group Red House Painters, released on October 18, 1993 by 4AD. The album is made up of songs from the same recording sessions for \"Rollercoaster\".\n\nAt the beginning of the album opener \"Evil,\" the faint laughter of Mark Kozelek and the barely audible voice of a woman playfully saying \"No\" can be heard. The album includes two covers: a sunny version of \"I Am a Rock\" by Simon and Garfunkel, and Francis Scott Key's \"The Star-Spangled Banner\", which displays an off-beat dark humor. An acoustic version of the song \"New Jersey\" was on \"Red House Painters I\". In the US, 4AD added the \"Shock Me EP\" as bonus tracks to the CD when the RHP catalog was reissued in 1999, to bring the total number of tracks to 12.\n\n\nAlthough no commercial singles were ever released from the album, a promotional-only CD single was issued for \"I Am a Rock\" in October 1993. In the US, a one-track promo featuring the radio edit was released; similarly, in the UK, a double A-side promo single, backed with \"New Jersey\" (Electric Version), was issued.\n\nWarner Bros./4AD, PRO-CD-5498:\n\n4AD, RHP 1 CD (UK):\n"}
{"id": "2135673", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2135673", "title": "Ralph Miliband", "text": "Ralph Miliband\n\nRalph Miliband (born Adolphe Miliband; 7 January 1924 – 21 May 1994) was a British sociologist. He has been described as \"one of the best known academic Marxists of his generation\", in this manner being compared with E. P. Thompson, Eric Hobsbawm and Perry Anderson.\n\nMiliband was born in Belgium to working-class Polish Jewish immigrants. He fled to Britain in 1940 with his father, to avoid persecution when Nazi Germany invaded Belgium. Learning to speak English and enrolling at the London School of Economics, he became involved in left-wing politics and made a personal commitment to the cause of socialism at the grave of Karl Marx. After serving in the Royal Navy during the Second World War, he settled in London in 1946 and naturalised as a British subject in 1948.\n\nBy the 1960s, he was a prominent member of the New Left movement in Britain, which was critical of established socialist governments in the Soviet Union and Central Europe (the Eastern Bloc). He published several books on Marxist theory and the criticism of capitalism, such as \"Parliamentary Socialism\" (1961), \"The State in Capitalist Society\" (1969) and \"Marxism and Politics\" (1977).\n\nBoth of his sons, David and Ed Miliband, went on to become senior members of the Labour Party following their father's death. David was the British Foreign Secretary from 2007 to 2010, whilst Ed became Energy and Climate Change Secretary and was later elected party leader, serving between 2010 and 2015.\n\nMiliband's parents had grown up in the impoverished Jewish quarter of Warsaw, Poland. Samuel Miliband had been a member of the socialist Jewish Labour Bund in Warsaw.\n\nIn 1922, they were among the Polish Jews who migrated westward, to Brussels in Belgium, after the First World War. It was here that Miliband's parents first met, and they married in 1923. His father, Samuel (1895–1966), was a skilled craftsman who made leather goods, and his mother, Renia (or Renée, née Steinlauf 1901–1975), travelled around selling women's hats. She was embarrassed by having to work in this profession, hiding it from her neighbours, but required the extra income due to the economic troubles of the Great Depression during the 1930s. Renia spoke Polish fluently, but her husband had only had a very basic education and, as such, probably only spoke Yiddish, but he taught himself French by reading newspapers. Their son, Adolphe, was born in Brussels on 7 January 1924.\n\nHe grew up in the working-class community of Saint-Gilles, and in 1939, aged 15, he became a member of Hashomer Hatzair (\"Young Guard\"), a socialist-Zionist youth group. In May 1940, following the outbreak of the Second World War, the armies of Nazi Germany invaded Belgium, and the Miliband family, being Jewish, decided to flee the country from the anti-Semitic Nazi authorities. They missed the train to Paris and, although Adolphe – who was then sixteen – wanted to walk to the border, the family recognised that his younger sister Anna Hélène, who was only twelve, was too young for such a trek. It was decided that Renia and Anna Hélène would stay in Brussels, while Sam and Ralph would go ahead and make the journey to Paris. However, along the way Sam decided to change the plan and went with his son to Ostend, where they caught the last boat to Britain. They arrived there on 19 May 1940.\n\nIn London, Miliband abandoned the name Adolphe due to its connection with Nazi leader Adolf Hitler and instead began calling himself Ralph. He and his father gained work in the Chiswick area removing furniture from houses bombed in the Blitz and, after six weeks, were able to send news to Renia and Anne-Marie that they were in London. Discovering that the Jews of Belgium were being rounded up by the Nazis, to be sent to extermination camps in the Holocaust, Renia and Anne-Marie managed to escape to a rural farm, where they were hidden by a French family until after the end of the war, when they were reunited with Sam and Ralph. However, several of Miliband's relatives and his best friend, Maurice Tan, were killed in the Holocaust.\n\nTo his dismay, the teenage Miliband came across antisemitism in London. In a diary entry made shortly after he arrived in Britain, he wrote:\n\nThe Englishman is a rabid nationalist. They are perhaps the most nationalist people in the world ... When you hear the English talk of this war you sometimes almost want them to lose it to show them how things are. They have the greatest contempt for the continent in general and for the French in particular. They didn't like the French before the defeat ... Since the defeat, they have the greatest contempt for the French Army ... England first. This slogan is taken for granted by the English people as a whole. To lose their empire would be the worst possible humiliation.\n\nLearning to speak English, Ralph gained a place at Acton Technical College (now Brunel University) in west London with the help of the League of Nations' Commission for Refugees in January 1941. After completing his course there, he gained the help of the Belgian government in exile to study at the London School of Economics (LSE). He had become interested in Marxism and revolutionary socialism, and visited the grave of Marxism's founder Karl Marx in Highgate Cemetery in north London, to swear an oath to \"the workers' cause\". Meanwhile, with the constant aerial bombing of London by the Luftwaffe, the LSE was evacuated to the premises of Peterhouse, Cambridge. Harold Laski, the historian and socialist theorist, was a dominant figure in the LSE at this time. Miliband studied under Laski, and was considerably influenced by him politically.\n\nMiliband volunteered to be sent to Belgium to assist the resistance movement, and passed his medical in January 1942, but as a Polish national he was not allowed to join until the Polish authorities gave consent. He asked Laski for help in joining the services, and shortly afterwards A. V. Alexander, First Lord of the Admiralty, wrote advising him to \"go and see a vice-admiral at the Admiralty, who would fix it up\". Miliband joined the Royal Navy in June 1943. He served for three years in the Belgian Section of the Royal Navy, achieving the rank of chief petty officer. He served on several warships as a German speaking radio intelligence officer in the Mediterranean, tasked with intercepting German radio communications. His initial exhilaration soon wore off as months passed without seeing action, then in June 1944 he took part in supporting the Normandy landings which he wrote was \"the biggest operation in history\" and he \"would not miss it for anything\". He saw further action at the Toulon landings.\n\nAfter the war, Miliband resumed his studies at the LSE in 1946, and graduated with a first-class degree in 1947. He began a doctorate on \"Popular Thought in the French Revolution, 1789–1794\" in 1947, but did not complete his thesis until 1956. After obtaining a Leverhulme research scholarship to continue his studies at the LSE, Miliband taught at the Roosevelt College (now Roosevelt University) in Chicago. He became a naturalised British subject on 28 September 1948. In 1949 he was offered an assistant lectureship in political science at the LSE.\n\nMiliband joined the Labour Party in 1951, and was a reluctant Bevanite in the early 1950s. He joined the British New Left, alongside the likes of E. P. Thompson and John Saville, at the \"New Reasoner\" in 1958, which became the \"New Left Review\" in 1960.\n\nMiliband published his first book, \"Parliamentary Socialism\", in 1961, which examined the role that the Labour Party played in British politics and society from a Marxist position, finding it wanting for a lack of radicalism. Paul Blackledge would later claim that it was \"arguably Miliband's finest work\". He ended his membership of the Labour Party in the mid-1960s, and subsequently remained independent of formal political affiliation. He began arguing that socialists in Britain had to start working towards building a viable alternative that would be genuinely revolutionary socialist in its positions.\n\nHe also set up the \"Socialist Register\" with Saville in 1964 and was influenced by the American sociologist C. Wright Mills, of whom he had been a friend. He published \"The State in Capitalist Society\" in 1969, a study in Marxist political sociology, rejecting the idea that pluralism spread political power, and maintaining that power in Western democracies was concentrated in the hands of a dominant class.\n\nMiliband was passionately opposed to American involvement in the Vietnam War. In 1967 he wrote in the \"Socialist Register\" that \"the US has over ... a period of years been engaged ... in the wholesale slaughter of men, women and children, the maiming of many more\" and that the United States' \"catalogue of horrors\" against the Vietnamese people was being done \"in the name of an enormous lie\". In the same article, he attacked Harold Wilson for his defence of the United States' action in Vietnam, describing it as being the \"most shameful chapter in the history of the Labour Party\". He went on to say that the US government \"made no secret of the political and diplomatic importance it attached to the unwavering support of a British Labour Government\".\n\nHe left the LSE in 1972, having found himself torn by the controversies which had beleaguered the institution over the preceding few years, particularly the LSE's responses to student protests in the late 1960s. He took up the post of Professor of Politics at the University of Leeds. The time at Leeds was an unhappy period for Miliband. He suffered a heart attack soon after the move, and did not enjoy the administrative responsibilities as a head of department. He resigned in 1978, and subsequently chose to assume several posts in Canada and the USA. He took a Professorship at Brandeis University in 1977, and also lectured at other universities in North America, including York University in Toronto and the City University of New York, although he remained based in London. He published \"Marxism and Politics\" in 1977, and \"Capitalist Democracy in Britain\" in 1982. By now Miliband was active in the Socialist Society with friends such as Tariq Ali and Hilary Wainwright.\n\nIn 1985, his essay \"The New Revisionism in Britain\" appeared in the 25th anniversary issue of the \"New Left Review\" in which he responds to writers associated with the \"Marxism Today\" magazine such as Eric Hobsbawm and Stuart Hall. Despite their differences, Hobsbawm had been a long-standing friend of Miliband.\nHe suffered from cardiac problems in later life, and had a bypass operation in 1991. He died 21 May 1994. aged 70, survived by his wife and sons. He is buried in Highgate Cemetery, close to Karl Marx. His last book, \"Socialism for a Sceptical Age\", was published in 1994, after his death.\n\nRalph married Polish-born Marion Kozak in September 1961. She was the daughter of a steel manufacturer, David Kozak, with a Polish Jewish heritage, and also one of his former students at the LSE. They made a home in Primrose Hill, and later in Bolton Gardens, South Kensington, and had two sons, David in 1965 and Edward in 1969.\n\nHis two sons both became Labour Party politicians, and in 2007 they became the first siblings to serve together as cabinet ministers since 1938. His elder son, David, was Labour MP for South Shields from 2001 to 2013. From 2005 to 2010 he served in the cabinet, latterly (from 2007) as Foreign Secretary. His younger son, Ed, was elected a Labour MP for the Doncaster North seat in 2005. From 2007 to 2008 he served as Minister for the Third Sector in the Cabinet Office and drafted Labour's manifesto for the 2010 general election. In October 2008 Ed was promoted to the position of Secretary of the newly formed Department of Energy and Climate Change (DECC). On 25 September 2010, he became the 20th leader of the Labour Party after a leadership contest in which David had also run.\n\nThe journalist Andy McSmith of \"The Independent\", in comparing the lives of Ralph, David and Ed, said that the elder figure had a \"nobility and a drama\" that was lacking in his sons' \"steady, pragmatic political careers\". On 27 September 2013, the \"Daily Mail\" published an article disputing Ralph Miliband's patriotism with the headline \"The man who hated Britain\". Three days later after negotiations the paper published a response by Ed Miliband describing his father's life, and saying the \"Daily Mail\" article was character assassination. At the same time as publishing this response, the newspaper reiterated its assertion and published an editorial refusing to apologise. The Labour leader's office responded that Miliband \"wanted the Daily Mail to treat his late father's reputation fairly. Rather than acknowledge it has smeared his father, the newspaper has repeated its original claim. This simply diminishes the Daily Mail further. It will be for people to judge whether this newspaper's treatment of a war veteran, Jewish refugee from the Nazis and distinguished academic reflects the values and decency we should all expect in our political debate.\" Ed Miliband's response gained support from across the political spectrum, and was endorsed by the Conservative Prime Minister David Cameron. When it was found that a \"Mail on Sunday\" reporter had intruded on the private funeral of Ed Miliband's uncle, the newspaper group's proprietor Lord Rothermere and the Sunday paper's editor apologised for this.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2135687", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2135687", "title": "Sarah Cawood", "text": "Sarah Cawood\n\nSarah Louise Cawood (born 7 August 1972 in St Pancras, London) is an English broadcaster, best known for presenting the BBC Children's Saturday flagship morning show Live & Kicking. Cawood is currently not working after deciding to focus on her family.\n\nCawood grew up in the Cambridgeshire village of Maxey and was educated at Stamford High School, Lincolnshire. She also attended the Royal Ballet School and Arts Educational Schools London.\n\nBetween 1995 and 1996, she was a presenter for Nickelodeon. In 1997, she moved on to co-present \"The Girlie Show\". From 1998 to 2000, she featured on Channel 5's Karaoke quiz show, \"Night Fever\". She has also presented on MTV, \"Live & Kicking\" and \"Top of the Pops\". She was also a panellist on \"Lily Savage's Blankety Blank\" on 2001 and \"Loose Women\" in 2003. She has also co-presented the midweek and Saturday National Lottery programmes and was also a reporter on the Channel 4 show \"Richard & Judy\". In addition to this, she presented an information video for Argos for staff training purposes.\n\nIn May 2006, it was while she was presenting the National Lottery Jet Set, alongside Eamonn Holmes that Fathers 4 Justice invaded the studio, she however carried on and later claimed it was her training on MTV which allowed her to 'ad-lib'. She won a Celebrity episode of \"The Weakest Link\", beating cricketer Phil Tufnell in the final. In November 2006, she took part in the BBC's \"Celebrity Scissorhands\" for Children in Need.\n\nShe co-presented BBC Three's coverage of \"Comic Relief Does Fame Academy\". She also co-commentated on the semi-finals of the Eurovision Song Contest 2007, 2009 and 2010 alongside Paddy O'Connell for viewers in the United Kingdom on BBC Three. Additionally, she starred as the 'hidden' celebrity in an episode of the CBBC show \"Hider in the House\".\n\nShe presented the UK version of the word-based quiz show \"That's the Question\" on Challenge which began airing on 14 May 2007.\n\nShe was a panellist on \"The Wright Stuff\" in 2007, and returned in early January 2010.\n\nShe is also the voice-over on ITV's \"Daily Cooks Challenge\" hosted by Anthony Worrall Thompson.\n\nOn 10 November 2010, she and Alice Cooper co-presented the Classic Rock Roll of Honour Awards at the Roundhouse in London.\n\nOn 6 January 2014, Cawood joined Dave Taylor to present the breakfast show on Heart East Anglia from 6 am til 10 am. \nSarah Cawood decided to leave the show in December 2014 to look after her children.\n\nCawood dated the Bluetones' guitarist Adam Devlin. In December 2012 Cawood married her long term partner Andy Merry. She was a bridesmaid, along with Fearne Cotton, at Holly Willoughby's wedding.\n\nIn 2008, she was part of the British team that completed Olivia Newton-John's \"Great Walk To Beijing\".\n\nOn 27 March 2012, Sarah gave birth to her first child son Hunter. In August 2013 Cawood gave birth to her second child daughter Autumn.\n\nShe is a supporter of Arsenal and remains a popular blogger on issues such as motherhood.\n\n"}
{"id": "2135693", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2135693", "title": "Bathurst Bay", "text": "Bathurst Bay\n\nBathurst Bay is a bay in the localities of Lakefield and Starcke in the Shire of Cook, Queensland, Australia. In the 19th century it was the base for the pearling fleet. It is now a tourist attraction on Cape York Peninsula in northern Queensland, Australia, near the Great Barrier Reef.\n\nThe area was home to the Mutumui and Walmbaria tribes. The British first settled Bathurst Bay sometime in the early-19th Century. The settlement had few tradable goods because of its climate and terrain. The site became important in the mid- to late-19th Century as an anchorage for the pearling fleet, which was discovering valuable oyster pearls. By the 1890s, the pearling fleet was the only reason for continued settlement. The settlement was destroyed on March 4, 1899 when Cyclone Mahina passed through northern Queensland. Cyclone Mahina was notable for producing the highest recorded storm surge of any tropical cyclone in history. The once-abundant forests have not regrown, mainly because of continuing salt damage to the land by the storm surge. Since the Federation of Australia in 1901, Bathurst Bay has become a popular fishing area. Few people have settled the bay area.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2135710", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2135710", "title": "Malicious caller identification", "text": "Malicious caller identification\n\nMalicious caller identification, activated by Vertical service code Star codes *57, is an upcharge fee subscription service offered by telephone company providers which, when dialed immediately after a malicious call, records meta-data for police follow-up. A police report must be filed after each use, as law enforcement will only act on the trace once a formal police report is filed in regard to the call.\n\nMalicious caller identification facility, also called malicious call trace or caller activated malicious call trace, when subscribed or enabled, works by allowing a phone call recipient to mark or flag the preceding phone call connection as malicious (i.e. harassing, threatening, obscene, etc.) The phone system will then automatically trace the call by flagging station to station billing and routing data including start and end times. The call trace is not dependent upon call duration (as envisioned in dramatic movie plots) and will record all meta-data regardless of source conditions - even if the call was made from an unlisted number, a payphone or a number with caller identification disabled. To protect privacy the resulting trace data is only made available to law enforcement.\n\nHow the user activates this feature depends on their phone system — generally it is either in-band-signaling DTMF sequence such as the *57 Vertical service code or a special button attached to their phone generating an out-of-band signal. For analogue services, many exchanges will interpret DTMF sequences to activate POTS. Digital services, such as ISDN or GSM, enable the CPE to activate MCI via out-of-band signaling. Often with PABXs with analogue phone connections, the PABX will interpret the DTMF and then activate the out-of-band signaling.\n\nMCI is the ETSI standard, whereas MCT is the American one. They both do more or less the same thing though.\n\nIn Canada, the service is usually marketed as call trace, and fees generally only apply when the service is used.\n\n"}
{"id": "2135711", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2135711", "title": "Roy Eugene Davis", "text": "Roy Eugene Davis\n\nRoy Eugene Davis (March 9, 1931 – March 27, 2019) was an American spiritual teacher and author who \"established the Georgia-based Center for Spiritual Awareness in 1972\". Previously he had founded New Life World Wide Inc. In 1967 he began publishing Truth Journal Magazine which has now been in continuous publication for 44 years. By 1970 he had authored nine books. Davis continued to teach in the Kriya Yoga tradition for more than 60 years.\n\nBorn in Leavittsburg, Ohio, Davis became interested in yoga at a young age. He read the book \"Autobiography of a Yogi\" when he was 18 and was attracted to kriya yoga and the author, Paramahansa Yogananda, who he \"knew was his guru\". After studying lessons from Yogananda's Self-Realization Fellowship and graduating from high school, he met Yogananda in 1949 and joined the monastic students at Yogananda's SRF. In 1951, he was ordained by Paramahansa Yogananda. In 1952 he was \"appointed Minister of the SRF Center in Phoenix, Arizona\", teaching kriya yoga.\n\nHe left SRF and served in the US Army Medical Corps at Fort Riley from 1953 through 1955. Following his military duty he began his ministry as an independent spiritual teacher. In the 1960s he founded New Life Worldwide. He began publishing the Truth Journal magazine in 1967. In the early 1970s Edwin O'Neal of the Christian Spiritual Alliance invited Davis to head the organizations teaching ministry and they named this outreach \"Center for Spiritual Awareness\". In 1972 Davis moved from Florida to Lakemont, Georgia to develop the ministry and retreat facilities of Center for Spiritual Awareness. In 1976 Davis was elected chairman of CSA after O'Neal retired.\n\nDavis taught in more than 100 cities in North America and in Japan, Brazil, Europe, West Africa, and India. Some of his books are published in 10 languages and in 11 countries. He continued to publish Truth Journal magazine and wrote monthly lessons for CSA members around the world.\n\nHe died on March 27, 2019 at the age of 88.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2135712", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2135712", "title": "Aloys Basselet von La Rosée", "text": "Aloys Basselet von La Rosée\n\nJohann Kaspar Aloys Reichsgraf Basselet von La Rosée (5 May 1747 Munich - 5 December 1826) was a Bavarian official and judge as well as a member of the Illuminati.\n\nHe was a son of Lieutenant Field Marshal Johann Kaspar Basselet von La Rosée and grandson of the Bavarian State Chancellor Franz Xaver Josef von Unertl.\n\nAloys was a jurist and became electoral Bavarian chamberlain and court councilor. Later he was appointed president of the High Court of Appellation in Munich. In 1772, he became an honorary member of the Bavarian Academy of Sciences and Humanities. He owned the villages of Feldafing including , Possenhofen and Pöcking near Lake Starnberg.\n\n"}
{"id": "2135718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2135718", "title": "The Fourth Hand", "text": "The Fourth Hand\n\nThe Fourth Hand is a 2001 novel written by American novelist John Irving. It is his 10th published novel.\n\nWhile reporting a story from India, Patrick Wallingford, a New York television journalist, has his left hand eaten by a lion. Millions of TV viewers witness the accident, and Patrick achieves instant notoriety as \"the lion guy\".\n\nIn Boston, a renowned hand surgeon, Dr. Nicholas M. Zajac, awaits the opportunity to perform the nation's first hand transplant. After watching video of Patrick, Dr. Zajac contacts the journalist and pledges to find a suitable hand donor for him.\n\nDoris Clausen, a married woman in Wisconsin, wants to give Patrick Wallingford her husband's left hand—that is, after her husband dies. When her husband later dies from a self-inflicted gunshot wound, Doris immediately rushes the hand to Boston. In the waiting room before the procedure, Doris has sex with Patrick, explaining that she had always wanted to have a child but was unable to with her late husband. The hand is then successfully attached by Dr. Zajac, with unorthodox visitation rights for the hand granted to Doris.\n\nPatrick quickly falls in love with Doris, who has his baby, Otto Clausen Junior. Doris, however, will not return Patrick's love, and only allows him to touch her intimately with her late husband's hand, now Patrick's.\n"}
{"id": "2135732", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2135732", "title": "Live! Tonight! Sold Out!!", "text": "Live! Tonight! Sold Out!!\n\nNirvana: Live! Tonight! Sold Out!! is a live video by the American rock band Nirvana, directed by Kevin Kerslake, and released on November 15, 1994 on VHS and laserdisc. It was re-released on DVD on November 7, 2006.\n\nConceived by vocalist and guitarist Kurt Cobain, the film was intended to document Nirvana's unexpected rise to fame following the release of their second album, \"Nevermind\", in September 1991. After Cobain's death in April 1994, it was salvaged for release by surviving Nirvana members Dave Grohl and Krist Novoselic, who completed it with editor Steve MacCorkle.\n\nKerslake, who had been in communication with Cobain during the film's development, revealed that Cobain's concept for the video was \"much more evolved\" than the version that was released, featuring \"more of an interior sense of what it was like to be in the band,\" but \"obviously, we never got to the point where that part was shot.\"\n\nThe video includes live performances, as well as interview clips, news footage and the band's home movies. The live material is drawn largely from the band's 1991 \"Nevermind\" tour, with their shows at the Paramount Theatre in Seattle, Washington, on October 31, 1991, and Paradiso in Amsterdam, Netherlands, on November 25, 1991, featured most prominently. This tour is also represented by appearances on the British music show \"Top of the Pops\" on November 27, 1991, and the British talk show \"The Jonathan Ross Show\" on December 6, 1991.\n\nIt also includes footage from the band's Pacific Rim tour in early 1992, and from their headlining appearances at the Roskilde Festival in Roskilde, Denmark on June 26, 1992, the Reading Festival in Reading, England on August 30, 1992, and the Hollywood Rock festival in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil on January 23, 1993.\n\nThe songs \"Aneurysm,\" \"Love Buzz\" and \"Territorial Pissings\" are edits of two different versions, with the Paradiso version being used as one of the two versions for all three songs. The first version of \"Love Buzz,\" recorded at Trees in Dallas, Texas on October 19, 1991, ends after Cobain dives into the crowd with his guitar during the solo, then gets into a physical altercation with an overly aggressive bouncer as he attempts to get back onstage.\n\nThe \"Aneurysm\" edit, which features the Paradiso and Hollywood Rock versions of the song, was used as a music video for a different live version of the song in 1996, when that version was released as a promotional single from the band's live compilation, \"From the Muddy Banks of the Wishkah\". The \"Muddy Banks of the Wishkah\" version was recorded at Del Mar Fairgrounds in Del Mar, California on December 28, 1991.\n\nIn 2002, an unsent letter to \"Kevin & co\" was published in Cobain's \"Journals\", which contained numerous requests for changes to the film, none of which appear in the final version. Among Cobain's instructions were the inclusion of the song \"Sifting,\" from the band's show at Rhino Records in Los Angeles, California on June 23, 1989, and \"Molly's Lips,\" from their appearance at the 1991 Reading Festival on August 23, 1991.\n\n\"Allmusic's\" Greg Prato wrote that the film showed \"how great the trio could be on stage,\" and offered \"great insight into the group, just as they were hitting it big.\" Charles Aaron of \"Spin\" wrote that it captured \"the dizzying silliness of the times, as well as Nirvana's fractious magnetism.\" According to Noah Davis of \"PopMatters\", the film showed that despite the band's \"position as world beaters,\" they were rarely serious, and \"never played along\" to the traditional rules of fame. Dan Martin of the \"NME\" wrote that it showed \"Nirvana as they should have been experienced: a raw, visceral, devastatingly sexy way of life.\"\n\n\nThe DVD features the same track listing as the VHS release, as well as footage from Nirvana's performance at the Paradiso Club in Amsterdam on November 25, 1991, featuring the songs:\n\n\nThere is also a secret \"easter egg\" bonus feature at the end of the credits, a rehearsal of \"On a Plain\" from early 1991.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2135738", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2135738", "title": "President of Laos", "text": "President of Laos\n\nThe President of the Lao People's Democratic Republic is the head of state of Laos.\n\nThe president represents Laos internally and externally, supervises the work as well as preserving the stability of the national governmental system and safeguards the independence and territorial integrity of the country. The President appoints the prime minister, vice president, ministers and other officials with the consent of the National Assembly. \n\nThe head of state is the commander-in-chief of the Lao People's Armed Forces. Since Laos is a one-party state, with the Lao People's Revolutionary Party being the sole party allowed by the constitution, all the presidents of the People's Democratic Republic have been members of the party while holding office. \n\nThe current president is Bounnhang Vorachith, since 20 April 2016. He is also the General Secretary of the Lao People's Revolutionary Party, making him ranked first in the Politburo hierarchy.\n\nThe office of the President of the People's Democratic Republic traces its lineage back to Prince Souphanouvong, the first President of the People's Democratic Republic, a member of the deposed royal family and one of the Three Princes, who became President when the former Kingdom of Laos was overthrow by the Pathet Lao in 1975, at the end of the Laotian Civil War.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2135746", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2135746", "title": "Killarney, Zimbabwe", "text": "Killarney, Zimbabwe\n\nKillarney is a suburb of Bulawayo, Zimbabwe. The population of Killarney is about 15,000 people. It is named after the town of Killarney in Co. Kerry in southwest Ireland. Due to its vicinity to the National University of Science and Technology many students live there, who due to transport expenses are willing to stay in large numbers of up to 8 per room. Killarney is a low-density housing area, with a 'grave quietness' when students are on holiday. \n\nKillarney is also in the vicinity of the Zimbabwe School of Mines whose students also contribute to the populace.\n\nKillarney is also home to an age Old Gold Mine called \"Old Nic Mine\"\n\nKillarney has most of its roads(27) named after towns in the United Kingdom. Killarney has a river that divides the suburb into two sections. There are two bridges along Tayport Road and Adair Drive which connect the two sections. The river flows between Morgan Road and Murchison Road. During the heavy rainy season, some water can flow, however because of the lack of management, much of the water remains stagnant and can cause mosquitoes to thrive during the summer season. The river flows from Gwanda Road up to the Umguza Dam. \n\nKillarney's transport is mainly serviced by minibus taxis which have a capacity of 15 - 18 passengers depending on the seating arrangement. During peak hours (0630 - 0830) and (1630 - 1830) wait times are relatively short, however during off peak hours wait times can be long. The taxis travel along Tayport Road, Adair Drive, Murchison Road and Scone Drive. They may enter into other roads in order to find commuters during peak hours in the morning. The taxis can be boarded from City Hall located in the City Centre. \n\nKillarney has some grocery stores located next to Old Nic mine that sell basic goods such as bread, cooking oil, vegetables, etc. There is also a bar located next to the grocery shop where miners usually grab a drink. There is a grinding mill next to the shop for people who would want to grind maize in order to make mealie meal.\n\nKillarney is home to Centenary Primary School, which offers education to Grades 1 to 7 in Zimbabwe's standard.\nThere are some houses which have been converted to pre- schools, Killarney is located in the outskirts of the city of Bulawayo. Having these pre- schools helps the working class to leave their children close to home.\n"}
{"id": "2135748", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2135748", "title": "Ricky Sánchez", "text": "Ricky Sánchez\n\nRicardo \"Ricky\" Sánchez Rosa (born July 6, 1987) is a Puerto Rican professional basketball player who currently plays for Santeros de Aguada of the Baloncesto Superior Nacional (BSN). He has played with the Idaho Stampede in the NBA Development League and the Continental Basketball Association, and in the National Superior Basketball League of Puerto Rico, with the Criollos de Caguas, Humacao Grays, Santurce Crabbers, and with the Mayaguez Indians, with whom he won a championship in 2012. He was drafted by the Portland Trail Blazers out of IMG Academy with the 35th pick of the 2005 NBA Draft, becoming the fourth Puerto Rican to be drafted by the National Basketball Association, and was immediately traded to the Denver Nuggets for their selection, Jarrett Jack.\n\nSánchez was then traded to the Philadelphia 76ers on September 10, 2007. The 76ers traded the rights to Sánchez on March 15, 2012 for Memphis Grizzlies forward Sam Young. This move inspired the name of Spike Eskin's Sixers podcast, \"The Rights to Ricky Sanchez\", commonly referred to as \"The Ricky\". On February 21, 2013, international rights to Sánchez were traded to the Miami Heat for center Dexter Pittman and a 2013 second round draft pick in an attempt to clear roster space for the Heat.\n\nHe has been a member of the Puerto Rican National Basketball Team since 2007.\n\nThe Sixers-focused podcast \"The Rights To Ricky Sanchez\" is named after Sánchez. The Sixers acquired his rights, and later traded them for small forward Sam Young.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2135749", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2135749", "title": "Beida, Sudan", "text": "Beida, Sudan\n\nBeida (also transliterated Al Beyda') is a common village name in the Darfur region of Sudan. The map linked below shows several. The largest populated place by this name is a large town and refugee center on the border with Chad at . This town is also spelled Bardai, a spelling originally appearing on a 1929 British map of the area, later reprinted by the US Army Map Service in 1951 as Series Y501 Sheet 53-O at 1:250,000 scale.\n\n"}
{"id": "2135751", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2135751", "title": "Tryphon", "text": "Tryphon\n\nTryphon or Trypho (, \"gen\".: Τρύφωνος; c. 60 BC – 10 BC) was a Greek grammarian who lived and worked in Alexandria. He was a contemporary of Didymus Chalcenterus.\n\nHe wrote several specialized works on aspects of language and grammar, from which only a handful of fragments now survive. These included treatises on word-types, dialects, accentuation, pronunciation, and orthography, as well as a grammar (\"Τέχνη Γραμματική\", \"Tékhne grammatiké\") and a dictionary. The two extant works that bear his name, \"On Meters\" and \"On Tropes\", may or may not be by him. He had a pupil named Abron.\n\n"}
{"id": "2135752", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2135752", "title": "Al Bayda Governorate", "text": "Al Bayda Governorate\n\nAl Bayda Governorate ( \"\"), also spelt \"Al-Baidhah\" or \"Beida\", is one of the governorates (\"muhafazat\") of Yemen. It is located near the centre of the country, around the town of Al Bayda. Its population, according to the 2004 Yemeni census, was 571,778.\n\n"}
{"id": "2135756", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2135756", "title": "Fairfield, Queensland", "text": "Fairfield, Queensland\n\nFairfield is a suburb of the City of Brisbane, Queensland, Australia. In the , Fairfield had a population of 2,980 people.\n\nFairfield is located south of the Brisbane CBD on the Brisbane River. The suburb is mainly residential with house and unit accommodation.\n\nFairfield is bounded to the north by the South Brisbane Cemetery, to the east by the Beenleigh railway line, to the south by Venner Road and to the west by the Brisbane River.\n\nSamuel Grimes and brother George Grimes immigrated to Queensland on the Chaseley in 1849, one of the ships chartered by Dr John Dunmore Lang. In 1857 they established an arrowroot farm called \"Fairfield\" in the area, providing the name for the suburb.\n\nIn 1914 the Railside Estate was a subdivision of 28 residential lots for the land bounded by Bell Lane (now Bledisloe Street) to the north, the South Coast railway line to the east, Venner Road to the south, and Cross Street to the west. The estate was described as \"within a stones throw from the Fairfield railway station\".\n\nThe Fairfield Library opened in 1988 with a major refurbishment in 2011.\n\nIn the , Fairfield had a population of 2,980 people.\nFairfield along with much of Brisbane was hit by floods in January 2011. And it also flooded in the 1974 floods.\n\nThere is a Fairfield train station on the line to Beenleigh. The main bus service is the 196, which runs every 15 minutes during the day and commences at Fairfield Gardens. During the morning peak the 107 and 108 bus services are also available. There is also a taxi rank.\n\nThere are no schools in Fairfield. The nearest government primary schools are in the neighbouring suburbs of Dutton Park, Annerley (Junction Park State School) and Yeronga (Yeronga State School). The nearest government secondary school is Yeronga State High School in Yeronga.\n\nA new government secondary school, Inner City South Secondary College, is expected to open in neighbouring Dutton Park in 2021.\n\nFairfield has a Skate Park that caters for young people in the suburb.\n\nFairfield has its own shopping centre, Fairfield Gardens, at 180 Fairfield Road. The main shop in the centre is a Coles supermarket. It also has a Terry White Chemist, Australia Post, BWS, Dollars and Cents, and a Doctors surgery. The Brisbane City Council operates a public library at Fairfield Gardens.\n\nThe suburb borders the Brisbane River and has many parks.\n\nIn the , Fairfield recorded a population of 2,554 people, 50.2% female and 49.8% male.\n\nThe median age of the Fairfield population was 31 years of age, 6 years below the Australian median.\n\n69.2% of people living in Fairfield were born in Australia, compared to the national average of 69.8%; the next most common countries of birth were England 3.2%, New Zealand 3.1%, Malaysia 1.5%, China 1.2%, Vietnam 1.2%.\n\n77.3% of people spoke only English at home; the next most popular languages were 2.4% Mandarin, 2% Greek, 1.7% Vietnamese, 1.7% Spanish, 0.9% German.\n\n"}
{"id": "2135765", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2135765", "title": "Kadan", "text": "Kadan\n\nKadan (also Qadan) was the son of the second Great Khan of the Mongols Ögedei and a concubine. He was the grandson of Genghis Khan and the brother of Güyük Khan. During the Mongol invasion of Europe, Kadan, along with Baidar (son of Chagatai Khan) and Orda Khan (the eldest brother of Batu Khan and khan of the White Horde), led the Mongol diversionary force that attacked Poland, while the main Mongol force struck the Kingdom of Hungary.\n\nIn early 1241, Kadan's forces sacked the Polish towns of Lublin, Zawichost and Sandomierz. Kadan then attacked Masovia, while Baidar burned the evacuated Polish capital, Kraków and then Bytom, and Orda Khan assaulted the southwestern border of Lithuania. The three leaders were then to attack the Silesian capital Breslau. Baidar began to besiege the town, but marched north with Kadan and Orda to Liegnitz to defeat the forces of Henry II the Pious, Duke of Silesia, before the Polish duke could join King Wenceslaus I of Bohemia. After defeating some forces of Konrad I of Masovia, Kadan's forces joined with Baidar's and Orda's at Liegnitz. The Christian army was crushed in the ensuing Battle of Liegnitz of April 9, 1241.\n\nMongol casualties were heavier than expected in the battle, however, and Kadan was reluctant to directly attack Wenceslaus' Bohemian forces. Kadan and Baidar skirmished against the Bohemians and were able to prevent the Bohemian king from helping King Béla IV of Hungary. After raiding Moravia, the Mongol diversionary force went to Hungary. \n\nDuring the winter of 1241–42, Kadan sacked Buda on the way to Győr. While besieging Italian mercenaries defending Székesfehérvár, Kadan was forced to withdraw his troops after an early thaw flooded the land around the town. The Mongol prince was then sent south with one tumen to search for Béla in Croatia. Kadan first sought the Hungarian king at Zagreb, which he sacked, and then pursued him into Dalmatia. While Béla hid at Trogir, Mongols under the leadership of Kadan, in March 1242 at Klis Fortress in Croatia, experienced their first European military failure, while in pursuit for the head of Béla IV of Hungary. Kadan had his Hungarian prisoners executed as supplies began to run out. To the king's surprise, Kadan headed south past Trogir toward Dubrovnik (Ragusa). While he was nearing Scutari, Kadan heard of the death of his father, Ögedei Khan. Kadan's raids through Bulgaria on his retreat from Central Europe induced the young Kaliman I of Bulgaria to pay tribute and accept Batu Khan as his liege.\n\nIn 1251 Kadan accepted the election of Möngke Khan as Khagan. According to René Grousset, he probably helped the latter to capture Eljigidei, the chief general of Güyük. Kadan was loyal to Kublai Khan and supported his army against Ariq Böke in the Toluid Civil War. He commanded Mongol army at the first engagement with Ariq Böke and killed his general Alandar.\n\nIn many medieval sources, Kadan was mistranslated by chroniclers as Kaidu, leading to confusion about who participated in the European campaign. He is also confused with another brother, Köden, who was influential in Tibet.\n"}
{"id": "2135772", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2135772", "title": "Al Bayda, Yemen", "text": "Al Bayda, Yemen\n\nAl Bayda (, not to be mixed with Al-Bayda' in Al-Jawf, the ancient \"Nashaq\"), also transliterated as Baida, Al-Baidhah or Beida, is a town in the Governorate of Al-Bayda' in Yemen.\n\nIt is located SE of San'a'. Rada' () is the present capital of the Governorate of Al Bayda'.\n\nIts population, according to the 2011 Yemeni census, was 29,853.\n\nOn 8 October 2014, at least nine people have been killed in an attack by Al-Qaeda militants on security and government buildings in the town, Officials say. The official Saba news agency said car bombs were used in the dawn assault which was repelled.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2135782", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2135782", "title": "Giriraja Kavi", "text": "Giriraja Kavi\n\nGiriraja Kavi () was a noted composer of Carnatic music, who lived in the 18th century in the kingdom of Thanjavur. His hometown, Tiruvarur, lies in the present-day state of Tamil Nadu.\n\nBorn into a pious but impoverished family belonging to the Mulukanadu sub-caste, Giriraja Kavi rose to occupy a place of eminence in the court of the Maharaja of Thanjavur, which in that era was a fountainhead of cultural talent. The great trinity of Carnatic music, Tyagaraja, Shyama Shastri and Muthuswami Dikshitar were all born in this area in the latter half of 18th century. Giriraja Kavi was among those who nurtured the cultural environment that produced these greats.\n\nGiriraja was born in Kakarla village, Cumbum taluk in Prakasham district (AP). Giriraja has produced many of the important cultural figures of South India. Among the greatest of those was Tyagaraja, whose mother was a daughter of Giriraja Kavi. He was named after the presiding deity of the main temple of that town. Giriraja Kavi played a major role in influencing the formative years of his celebrated grandson Tyagaraja. He was instrumental in securing a place at court for his grandson, a position that Tyagaraja soon abjured.\n\nIt is to Tyagaraja's credit that Giriraja Kavi's musical work, created during an era that was dominated by the trinity of Carnatic music, has secured him a lasting place of honour among the greats of Carnatic music.\n"}
{"id": "2135790", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2135790", "title": "Love's Last Shift", "text": "Love's Last Shift\n\nLove's Last Shift, or The Fool in Fashion is an English Restoration comedy by Colley Cibber from 1696. \n\nThe play is regarded as an early herald of a shift in audience tastes away from the intellectualism and sexual frankness of Restoration comedy and towards the conservative certainties and gender role backlash of sentimental comedy. It is often described as \"opportunistic\" (Hume), containing as it does something for everybody: daring Restoration comedy sex scenes, sentimental reconciliations, and broad farce.\n\nMEN\nWOMEN. \nColley Cibber played Sir Novelty Fashion in the original 1688 production.\n\n\"Love's Last Shift\" is the story of a last \"shift\" or trick that a virtuous wife, Amanda, is driven to, in order to reform and retain her out-of-control rakish husband Loveless. Loveless has been away for ten years, dividing his time between the brothel and the bottle, and no longer recognizes his wife when he returns to London. Acting the part of a high-class prostitute, Amanda invites Loveless into her luxurious house and treats him to the night of his dreams, confessing her true identity in the morning. Loveless is so impressed by her faithfulness that he immediately becomes a reformed character. A minor part which was a great success with the première audience is the fop Sir Novelty Fashion, written by Cibber for himself to play. Sir Novelty flirts with all the women, but is more interested in his own exquisite appearance and witticisms, and, writes Cibber modestly in his autobiography 45 years later, \"was thought a good portrait of the foppery then in fashion\". \n\nThe play was a great box office hit at the première run but has not stood the test of time. Theatre historians today remember it, if at all, because of John Vanbrugh's sequel \"The Relapse, or, Virtue in Danger\", still a stage favourite, where the husband returns to polygamy.\n\n"}
{"id": "2135792", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2135792", "title": "Johann Kaspar Basselet von La Rosée", "text": "Johann Kaspar Basselet von La Rosée\n\nJohann Kaspar (Jean-Gaspard) Reichsgraf Basselet von La Rosée (April 30, 1710 - April 12, 1795) was a leading Bavarian general.\n\nBasselet von La Rosée was born at Arlon, Province of Luxembourg, Belgium. Advancing his career in the army of his new fatherland Bavaria, his positions included electoral Privy Councillor, Lieutenant Field Marshal and Director of the War Council. \nIn 1761, he was appointed an honorary member of the Bavarian Academy of Sciences and Humanities, in 1764 created an Imperial Count (title recognized in Bavaria in 1766). In approximately 1760, he purchased the villages of Feldafing and Possenhofen as well as , thus becoming the owner of the longest connected waterfront of Lake Starnberg. In 1834, his heirs sold the whole property to Duke Maximilian in Bayern, while King Ludwig I became proprietor of the island.\n\nIn 1770, Count Basselet von La Rosée purchased the estate of near Moosburg.\n\nHe died, aged 84, in Munich. His tomb can still be found in the vault chapel of the Counts La Rosée in Inkofen, today part of Haag an der Amper.\n\nHe was married to a daughter of the salt trader Johann Baptista Ruffini, who was at the same time a niece of the Bavarian State Chancellor Franz Xaver Josef von Unertl. His son was the electoral Bavarian chamberlain, Privy Councillor and President of the High Court of Appellation Aloys Reichsgraf Basselet von La Rosée.\n\n"}
{"id": "2135793", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2135793", "title": "Allison DuBois", "text": "Allison DuBois\n\nAllison DuBois (born January 24, 1972) is an American author and purported medium. DuBois has claimed to have used her psychic abilities to assist U.S. law enforcement officials in solving crimes, forming the basis of the TV series \"Medium\".\n\nHer powers as a medium were tested by Gary Schwartz of the University of Arizona. Schwartz claimed that his research supports DuBois's psychic abilities, while skeptics have pointed out flaws in both DuBois's claims and Schwartz's research. A show called \"Medium\" is based on Allison's experiences and she is a consultant for the show. She claims she has visions, of both the past and the future, but it's mainly the dreams that allegedly help the police solve crimes.\n\nDuBois was born in Phoenix, Arizona, where she attended both North High School in Phoenix and Corona del Sol High School in Tempe. Despite dropping out, she obtained her GED at the age of 16. In college, she worked as an intern at the district attorney's office in Phoenix. She received her B.A. in political science with a minor in history from Arizona State University.\n\nDuBois refers to herself as a medium and profiler, rather than a psychic, because of the negative connotation she feels is associated with the term \"psychic\". She claims that she became aware that she had the ability to communicate with departed souls when she was 6 years old. DuBois claims she uses this ability to connect deceased loved ones to the living, and also to help law enforcement agencies solve crimes, such as the Texas Rangers and the Glendale, Arizona police department, and that she used these abilities as a jury consultant. These law enforcement agencies have since either denied any such cooperation happened or stated the tips provided by DuBois were not helpful.\n\nAccording to the \"TV Guide\", Allison DuBois spent four years participating in various tests at the University of Arizona to assist with their studies of mediums and psychic phenomena. Gary Schwartz, Director of The VERITAS Research Project, claims that DuBois has psychic abilities, arguing in the March 6, 2005 \"TV Guide\", \"Anyone who's looked closely at the evidence can't help but come to the conclusion that there is something very real going on here.\" At their first meeting, Schwartz says DuBois accurately described a friend of Schwartz's who had just died. Impressed, Schwartz conducted a series of interviews, including one in which DuBois stated she contacted the late husband of a woman in England, knowing only the woman's name. The woman, after reading a transcript of the session, affirmed that 80% of what DuBois said was accurate. Schwartz published his research in a book titled \"The Truth About Medium\". According to a statement by DuBois, she does not endorse the book or Schwartz.\n\nThe television drama \"Medium\", which aired from 2005 until 2011 on NBC and CBS is based on Allison DuBois's book, \"Don't Kiss Them Good-Bye\". The show was created by Glenn Gordon Caron, creator of \"Moonlighting\" and other television shows, who is also one of the writers for the series. It is produced by CBS Television Studios (having acquired the TV production arm of original producer Paramount Pictures) and Grammnet, the production company owned by \"Cheers\" and \"Frasier\" alumnus Kelsey Grammer. Patricia Arquette was cast to play the role of DuBois, at the suggestion of Caron's girlfriend. DuBois stated in the January 9, 2005 \"TV Guide\" that she initially thought Arquette was too liberal to play her, remarking, \"I mean, I have a gun, I have put people on death row. I wanted to make sure that was something that didn't bother her. But she assured me that she believed some people may have that coming.\"\n\"Every episode is not a biography of my life, it is simply based on my life experiences. It is an accurate portrayal of my life and the people who share it with a little Hollywood magic thrown in,\" DuBois has said. She does state in both her book and in the edition of January 3, 2005 of \"Sci Fi Weekly\" that the program closely resembles the truth of her own life. Several details of Arquette's character match DuBois's life, such as the name of her husband on the show (Joe) and the fact that he is an aerospace engineer. Both the character and the real-life DuBois have three daughters, and the first case the character \"consults\" on in the show's pilot is with the Texas Rangers, the law enforcement agency with whom the real-life DuBois alleges she first worked.\n\nSkeptics such as Paul Kurtz and Ray Hyman say that DuBois does not have psychic powers. Skeptic James Randi says that people such as DuBois give the appearance of psychic powers through cold reading techniques. For example, DuBois, when doing her first reading of Schwartz, told him that his deceased friend was telling her, \"I don't walk alone,\" which Schwartz understood to be a reference to his friend's confinement to a wheelchair, which DuBois could not have known about. Randi says that Schwartz leapt to an unsupportable conclusion, since the notion of \"not walking alone\" can mean any number of things, and \"certainly \"does not\" describe being in a wheelchair\". Randi also asserts that experiments that allegedly yield positive results of psychic powers, such as the ones done with DuBois, are not conducted using proper scientific controls. In light of Schwartz's assertion that \"some\" of his experiments with DuBois were performed under such conditions, Randi questions why the rest of them were not, and points to a report demonstrating that a few of Schwartz's experiments were \"not\" performed according to standard scientific protocol. Schwartz's point-by-point response to Randi's criticisms was published in 2005.\n\nIn 2005, Randi offered to have DuBois tested for his One Million Dollar Challenge. According to Randi, DuBois declined his invitation to the challenge. In 2011, the JREF again issued the million dollar challenge to James Van Praagh, Allison DuBois, Sylvia Browne, Carla Baron, John Edward, and others to prove their abilities in controlled experiments, commenting, \"James Van Praagh and Allison DuBois have turned the huckster art of 'cold reading' into a multi-million-dollar industry, preying on families' deepest fears and regrets,\" he says in a statement announcing the challenge. \"They should be embarrassed by the transparent performances.\"\n\nFormer FBI profiler, behavioral science expert and MSNBC analyst Clint Van Zandt challenges statements about psychics helping law enforcement arguing, \"If psychics were truly successful and if their results were not simply the consequence of trickery (at worse [sic]) or good interviewing skills (at best), then why don't law enforcement agencies have psychic detective squads, a real X-Files Unit, or other ways to integrate these paranormal investigative capabilities?\"\n\nDuBois's parents, Mike Gomez and Tienna DuBois, divorced when she was a baby. Tienna remarried and divorced again when Allison was 12. In her first book, DuBois writes about seeing her stepdad in public with his new family. DuBois is married to Joe Klupar and they have three daughters: Aurora, Fallon, and Sophia. DuBois believes that her daughters share her psychic abilities. \n\nIn 2010, DuBois made an appearance in \"The Real Housewives of Beverly Hills\" at a dinner party hosted by Camille Grammer. She had a major confrontation with Kyle Richards and insisted that Richards would \"never be emotionally fulfilled\" by her husband. DuBois did not fare well in the episode (S1 Ep. The Dinner Party From Hell) and was highly criticised for her behaviour.\n\nDuBois is the author of four books dealing with mediumship.\n\n"}
{"id": "2135794", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2135794", "title": "Route 1 (Hong Kong)", "text": "Route 1 (Hong Kong)\n\nRoute 1 (Chinese: 一號幹線) is a major artery in Hong Kong that runs in a generally north-south direction, connecting Aberdeen with Shatin.\n\nThe route is heavily congested, notably on the Canal Road viaduct that links the Aberdeen Tunnel with the Cross-Harbour Tunnel in Causeway Bay. Route 1 continues to serve as the most direct route from the north shore of Hong Kong Island to the Southern District. The road travels across the harbour and runs through the middle of Kowloon and continues heading north into the New Territories.\n\nRoute 1 was established in January 2004 when the third generation of route numbers came into use, replacing the old system which had been used since 1974.\nThe route begins in the south at Aberdeen Praya Road which continues as Wong Chuk Hang Road until reaching the Aberdeen Tunnel. The traffic runs on the Canal Road viaduct after exiting the tunnel in Happy Valley. The viaduct descends to the ground level passed the intersection at Gloucester Road for Route 4 to Tin Hau, North Point and Eastern Harbour Crossing.\n\nTraffic then crosses the Cross-Harbour Tunnel into Kowloon and keeps heading north along Princess Margaret Road and Waterloo Road. The stretch of Waterloo Road between Hereford Road and Lancashire Road in Kowloon Tong is the only section of the route that is not controlled access. Traffic then climbs a steep incline to reach the Lion Rock Tunnel. At the end of the tunnel, the road skirts the border of Tai Wai. The route becomes an expressway in Sha Tin for the remaining 3 km. Traffic has an option to merge to Route 9 in Shatin or branch off onto Route 2 for Ma On Shan.\n"}
{"id": "2135798", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2135798", "title": "Sir William Pulteney, 5th Baronet", "text": "Sir William Pulteney, 5th Baronet\n\nSir William Pulteney, 5th Baronet (October 1729 – 30 May 1805), known as William Johnstone until 1767, was a Scottish advocate, landowner and politician who sat in the House of Commons between 1768 and 1805. He was reputedly the wealthiest man in Great Britain. He invested in lands in North America, and in developments in Great Britain, including the Pulteney Bridge and other buildings in Bath, buildings on the sea-front at Weymouth in Dorset, and roads in his native Scotland.\n\nHe was a patron of architect Robert Adam and civil engineer Thomas Telford.\n\nWilliam Johnstone, as he was born, was the second son of Sir James Johnstone, 3rd Baronet of Wester Hall, Dumfries, and his wife Barbara Murray, the oldest sister of the literary patron Patrick Murray, 5th Lord Elibank.\n\nHis older brother was the soldier and politician Sir James Johnstone, 4th Baronet. His younger brothers included the politician and naval officer George Johnstone and the East India Company official John Johnstone. Alexander Murray of Elibank, a Jacobite, was his uncle.\n\nHe studied law, became a member of the Faculty of Advocates in 1751, and went on to become an eminent advocate. He lived in Edinburgh and associated with several major figures of the country's learned society, including philosopher and historian David Hume, political philosopher and economist Adam Smith, and architect Robert Adam. He was a brother of Commodore George Johnstone and first cousin of Patrick Ferguson.\n\nOn 10 November 1760, he married heiress Frances Pulteney. Frances was the third daughter of MP and government official Daniel Pulteney and first cousin once removed of William Pulteney, 1st Earl of Bath. She inherited William’s substantial fortune and estates close to Bath in Somerset after his death in 1764 and that of his younger brother and heir in 1767. On inheriting, Johnstone changed his name in 1767 to Pulteney. Simultaneously, his daughter’s name was also changed from Henrietta Laura Johnstone to Henrietta Laura Pulteney.\n\nAt that time Bath was expanding, but the Pulteneys' rural Bathwick estate was separated from the city by the River Avon, and with no bridge in place the only means of crossing the river was via a small ferry. They decided a bridge needed to be built, and Pulteney turned to his friend and fellow countryman, architect Robert Adam. Adam was influenced by his travels to Florence and Venice and proposed a bridge incorporating shops along both sides. This was completed in 1773, but the Pulteneys' original plans for Bath's expansion did not take effect until 1788 when Bath architect Thomas Baldwin started to create a new estate. As well as the bridge bearing their name, the Pulteneys’ involvement is recalled by Great Pulteney Street in Bathwick, reputed to be the longest boulevard of its kind in Europe, while Henrietta Street was named after their daughter.\n\nPulteney represented Cromarty and later Shrewsbury, where he usually resided, in seven successive Parliaments. He first but unsuccessfully contested the Shrewsbury seat in 1768, but subsequently won the seat for Cromarty (losing this to Cosmo Gordon in 1774). In 1774 he again contested Shrewsbury, and although he was defeated, he was returned on petition the following March (and retained the seat until his death in May 1805).\n\nOn 1 June 1782, his wife Frances died, leaving him her fortune.\n\nPulteney invested in land in the West Indies and in what is today western New York state. The settlements of Bath, Pulteney, Henrietta and Caledonia are evidence of his speculation at the end of the 18th century, through 'The Pulteney Association' an agency run by his agent Charles Williamson.\n\nIn 1783, Pulteney began working with Thomas Telford, later the most eminent civil engineer of his day. When Pulteney first met him, Telford was a young stonemason from the same parish of Westerkirk in Dumfries, who had travelled to London to seek work. In 1787, Pulteney commissioned Telford to supervise restoration works at Shrewsbury Castle, following Robert Adam's designs and helped his appointment as Surveyor of Public Works for Shropshire.\n\nLater, as Governor of the British Fisheries Society, Pulteney appointed Telford to design the world’s then-largest herring fishing port, at Wick in Caithness. The village was named Pulteneytown and is the location of the \"Old Pulteney\" whisky distillery.\n\nPulteney was also influential in Telford's 1801 appointment to devise a master plan to improve communications in the Highlands of Scotland, a massive project that was to last 20 years.\n\nPulteney also took a lively interest in many other engineering projects, including that of Bell Rock lighthouse, supporting a bill in 1803.\n\nHe succeeded to the Johnstone baronetcy in 1794 on the death of his elder brother James Johnstone. He was thus titled 5th Baronet Pulteney, having declined several offers of a peerage during his parliamentary career.\n\nIn 1804 Pulteney married, as his second wife, Margaret, widow of Andrew Stuart and daughter of Sir William Stirling. The marriage did not last long. Pulteney died intestate at Bath House in Piccadilly, London, on 30 May 1805, and was buried at Westminster Abbey.\n\nHis daughter, (Henrietta) Laura, was created 1st Baroness of Bath on 26 July 1792 and 1st Countess of Bath on 26 October 1803. In 1794, she had married her father's first cousin Sir James Murray, who had taken the name Murray-Pulteney. She died on 14 July 1808 without bearing children and her titles became extinct.\n\n"}
{"id": "2135801", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2135801", "title": "Grizzled skipper", "text": "Grizzled skipper\n\nThe grizzled skipper (\"Pyrgus malvae\") is a common butterfly from the family Hesperiidae that is widespread throughout Europe. It is a small Skipper (butterfly) with a chequered pattern on its wings that appears to be black and white. This butterfly can be found throughout Europe and is heavily concentrated in central and southern regions of England. The butterfly prefers three major types of habitat: woodland, grassland, and industrial. Referenced as a superspecies, \"Pyrgus malvae\" includes three semispecies: \"malvae, malvoides,\" and \"melotis\". Eggs are laid on plants that will provide warmth and proper nutrition for development, such as \"A. euphoria\". As larvae, their movement is usually restricted to a single plant, on which they will build tents, unless they move onto a second host plant. Larvae then spin cocoons, usually on the last host plant they have occupied, where they remain until spring. Upon emerging as adult butterflies, grizzled skippers are quite active during the day and tend to favour blue or violet-coloured plants for food. They also possess multiple methods of communication; for example, vibrations are used to communicate with ants, and chemical secretions play a role in mating. Exhibiting territorial behaviour, males apply perching and patrolling strategies to mate with a desired female.\n\n In terms of a species complex, \"Pyrgus malvae\" is considered a superspecies that consists of three semispecies, which exhibit geographic variations in the genitalia of both male and female butterflies. These three semispecies are considered to be the \"Pyrgus malvae,\" \"Pyrgus malvoides\", and \"Pyrgus melotis\" types. This classification can also be described as a monophyletic clade. Significant isolation mechanisms exist to accentuate the division between the \"malvae\" type and \"melotis\" type, more than the difference between the \"malvae\" and \"malvoides\" types. In fact, interbreeding has been observed between the \"malvae\" and \"malvoides\" types, indicating their close relation - namely that they are both part of the same species.\nWith its characteristic chequered black-and-white pattern, the grizzled skipper is quite distinctive. It is small, with an average forewing diameter of 12 millimeters, and closely resembles moths in appearance. Males and females can be differentiated by the shape of their wings: males have slightly more angular wings, while females have a more rounded wing shape. Larvae are coloured green and light brown with darker brown stripes.\n\n\"Pygrus malvae\" can be found throughout Western Europe in northern Scandinavia, parts of Greece, and some of the Mediterranean Islands. Its populations in many European countries appear to be quite stable. It is also present in Korea, as well as throughout the Mediterranean up to Middle Finland, and rarely in parts of Germany.\n\nAlthough grizzled skippers occupy three major forms of habitats, they tend to settle in environments with spring nectar plants, larval food plants (agrimony, creeping cinquefoil, wild strawberry, tormentil), ranker vegetation, and edges with scrub or woodland. Host plants are from the family \"Rosaceae\" with a focus on \"Agrimonia eupatoria\" as well as \"Potentilla.\"\n\nWoodland: This mainly consists of sparsely distributed vegetation and can have regions of bare ground that result from cutting or windblow.\n\nGrassland: These can result from three different patterns that involve animal grazing, scrub cutting, or disturbance by animals: 1) Scrubby grassland that includes bramble and wild strawberry 2) Unimproved grassland that include creeping cinquefoil 3) Unimproved grassland that includes agrimony.\n\nIndustrial: Sparse vegetation with mainly wild strawberry or creeping cinquefoil depending on whether the environment is along a railway or clay working. These environments have typically been abandoned fairly recently.\n\nOther possible environments for the butterflies are heathland, shingle, sand dunes, and acidic, neutral and marshy grassland.\n\nStudies support a concentrated preference for specifically coloured flowers by grizzled skippers. They are most attracted to blue and violet while showing little or no attraction to white, yellow, or red. Butterflies have ultraviolet and blue receptors that may be responsible for Hesperiidae butterflies favoring blue. This evidence indicates that when butterflies from this species forage for food, they are particularly attentive to short-wavelength light that is reflected off flowers. In fact, this particular preference aligns with a prominent attentiveness that members of Hesperiidae have for blue. This preference may be a result of phylogenetic adaptations, foraging signals, and learning abilities. Specifically, the prevalence of blue flowers in lowlands could further intensify this preference, especially for grizzled skippers that tend to be found in lowland grasslands.\n\nAn overarching theme in behavioral ecology can be seen through female grizzled skipper investment in host plant selection. Females tend to lay eggs on host plants that are viewed as larger and more nutritionally rich. However, this nutritional advantage for caterpillars must be balanced with the presence of a warm microclimate that is suitable for the species. Warm microclimates align with \"P. tabernaemontani\" plants, but these may also have an increased chance of desiccation. On the other hand, \"A. eupatoria\" is a larger plant when near molehills and can be found in more suitable environments. As a result, \"A. eupatoria\" provides an appropriate balance for both of these requirements and is preferred as a host plant by \"P. malvae,\" particularly near molehills. Females consider optical conspicuousness, or plant visibility, through prominence (height differences between host plants and vegetation). More prominent host plants, like \"A. eupatoria\" over \"P. tabernaemontani\", are favored. However, these two different habitats are used significantly and may be evolutionary adaptations to offset the grizzled skippers’ risk of extinction imposed by a polarized weather pattern.\n\nEggs are mainly found on agrimony, creeping cinquefoil, and wild strawberry plants, which provide nourishment for larvae. Other plants that can be considered include barren strawberry, tormentil, salad burnet, bramble, dog rose, and wood avens. Plants favored by mothers are typically located in bare ground or short vegetation environments, can have high nitrogen contents, and tend to be located in warmer microclimates. The eggs for grizzled skippers are laid one at a time, although females can lay them on more than two species of plants. Preferred plants have been observed to contain up to 22 eggs.\n\nThis stage continues for two to three months in its entirety. At first, larvae live and spend the vast majority of their time within ‘tents’ that they build on the host leaf, and this partially feeds into their restricted mobility. The two reasons for leaving this shelter are 1.) to feed on another leaf, or 2.) to create another tent. Later on in this stage, larvae expand their mobility and are no longer restricted in diet or habitat. Plants that are higher in nitrogen content and nutrition are more highly incorporated into the diets of larger larvae, as are coarser shrubs. Host plants located on molehills are favored for early larval stages due to open vegetation that is available as well as bare ground and warmer microclimates.\n\nPupal cocoons spun by larvae can be located on or within low vegetation. Generally, these cocoons are not found near the larvae's last tent. The location of these cocoons can consequently affect adult emergence patterns. Pupal cocoons on shorter vegetation will facilitate adult emergence earlier in the spring than pupal cocoons on longer vegetation.\n\nGrizzled skippers produce one brood per season and are in flight from the middle of March to the middle of July. Active during the day and focused on feeding or basking, they roost on tall vegetation like marjoram, knapweed, and St John's-wort. In particular, adults spend days basking on bare ground and afternoons on taller vegetation. This provides them favorable microclimates and visibility.\n\nButterflies move away from open spaces to the case of increasing wind speeds to seek shelter. Shelter may be particularly important because of vegetation; for example, they can support herbs and bramble. They are also useful in connecting multiple separated habitats. In fact, shelters are associated with higher activity amongst the butterflies.\n\nGrizzled skippers belong in family Hesperiidae, but another group of butterflies (family Lycaenidae) uses the mechanism of wing expansion to produce vibrations and communicate with ants. Similar to this behavior, grizzled skippers also produce vibrations upon expanding their wings. This resembles the ‘ant-attendant’ behaviour that is specific to butterflies in the Lycaenidae. Ants are recognized as potential predators for lycaenid caterpillars, therefore, vibration signaling most likely functions as an anti-predatory survival mechanism. Similarly, grizzled skippers also exhibit this kind of vibratory communication. Although the behavior is absent during the caterpillar stage, grizzled skippers are able to produce vibrations upon wing expansion. Akin to lycaenids, grizzled skippers may use these vibrations as signals to communicate with ants and potentially as an attempt to temper aggression.\n\nGrizzled skippers are known to contain organs called androconia that are responsible for producing chemicals within the thorax as well as the abdomen. They are found in males at the forewing costal fold. The organs release sex pheromones that can be used as a sexual recognition mechanism and drive evolution. The process involves the male first locating a female visually, then using low concentrations of the pheromones at a relatively close proximity to indicate its viability as a mate. While courting the female, male butterflies have specialized hairlike structures called ‘tibial tufts’ on their hind legs that can be used to steer these chemicals directly to the female. However, this chemical communication cannot be differentiated between \"P. malvae\" and \"P. malvoides\", a close relative considered a subspecies of \"P. malvae\" and not separated by isolation reproductive barriers\".\"\n\nThere are two main mating strategies that are used by grizzled skippers, which ultimately illustrate mechanisms of sexual selection by this species. In both, males demonstrate territorial behaviours. In the case of perching, males wait on taller plants for females to come to them in order to begin courting. In the case of patrolling, males locate a desired female and fly down to her.\n\nThe type of behaviour that they use in mating depends upon the pattern of food plant availability in their respective habitats.\n\n\"Pyrgus malvae\" is particularly receptive to warmer and drier climates. Warmer summers are more favorable for the grizzled skipper and are positively correlated with the species. This could result from relationships between warmth and the success of the mother's ability to lay the egg as well as of larvae survival. Warmer climates also tend to hasten the development of larvae and allow for earlier onset of the pupal stage. Cooler northern weather may explain the concentration of this butterfly in southern regions. As a result of climate warming, the grizzled skipper appears to show decreases in northern range margin, distribution area, and abundance. This response appears to be dependent upon climatic as well as nonclimatic driving forces.\n\nThe wings of \"Pygrus malvae\" are only mildly adhesive, rough, and highly hydrophobic. These qualities prevent their wings from sticking to external surfaces, support their resistance to water damage, and allow the butterfly to self-clean its wings without risking desiccation. Additionally, these properties enable the grizzled skipper to avoid excess weight bearing, consequently promoting secure and efficient flight patterns.\n\n1- Decreased woodland clearings, unimproved grassland, scrub habitats\n\n2- Unimproved grasslands and scrub habitats that have been changed\n\n3- Woodland and grassland sites that have been broken apart or deserted\n\n4- Artificial habitats that have been deteriorated\n\n1- Further changes that reduce open areas and spread apart clearings\n\n2- Reductions in coppice produce\n\n3- Further deteriorating unimproved grassland, scrub, and artificial habitats\n\n4- Further breaking apart and deserting habitats\n\nThe grizzled skipper has notably been decreasing in its prevalence in several other European countries over the past 25 years. The species has experienced significant declines (ranging from 25% to over 50%) in Britain, Croatia, Belgium, European Turkey, and the Netherlands. Less severe decline can be seen in the Czech Republic, Germany, Denmark, Finland, Luxembourg, Romania, Sweden, Slovakia, and Asian Turkey. Once found across England as well as regions in Wales, the grizzled skipper is now concentrated in Central and Southern England only. In fact, five of England's counties have already experienced extinction of the species, and the butterfly can only be found in less than five sites in another five English counties. However, between 1995 and 1997, evidence of recolonization by the grizzled skipper has emerged, specifically in several counties in England.\n\nGrazing has been applied as an approach to conservation, especially in the Netherlands where it is used to monitor the biodiversity of open habitats. \"Pyrgus malvae\" is important in these studied because it is considered as a threatened to susceptible species in the Netherlands. Grazing appears to be positively associated with populations of \"Pyrgus malvae\" that are concentrated more in habitats with grazed vegetation rather than those with cut and ungrazed regions. The trend may be reflective of the fact that grizzled skippers prefer open grassland habitats. With its endangered status in the Netherlands, the grizzled skipper may benefit from extensive grazing as a nature restoration project.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2135815", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2135815", "title": "Harmony No Harmony", "text": "Harmony No Harmony\n\nHarmony No Harmony is the second and final full-length album released by British band Million Dead. It is the first to feature new guitarist Tom Fowler who replaced original guitarist Cameron Dean. Lead singer Frank Turner's mother makes an appearance on the song \"To Whom It May Concern\". Members of the band Drive Like You Stole It appear on both \"To Whom It May Concern\" and \"Father My Father\".\nIn a podcast released in May 2015, Turner revealed that there would be a vinyl re-release of the record in 2015 to celebrate its 10th anniversary.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2135816", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2135816", "title": "Garden of Remembrance (Dublin)", "text": "Garden of Remembrance (Dublin)\n\nThe Garden of Remembrance () is a memorial garden in Dublin dedicated to the memory of \"all those who gave their lives in the cause of Irish Freedom\". It is located in the northern fifth of the former Rotunda Gardens in Parnell Square, a Georgian square at the northern end of O'Connell Street. The garden was opened by Eamon de Valera during the semicentennial of the Easter Rising in 1966.\n\nThe Garden commemorates freedom fighters from various uprisings, including:\n\nThe site of the Garden is where the Irish Volunteers were founded in 1913, and where several leaders of the 1916 Rising were held overnight before being taken to Kilmainham Gaol. President Éamon de Valera opened the Garden in 1966 on the fiftieth anniversary of the 1916 Easter Rising, in which he had been a commander.\n\nThe Garden was designed by Dáithí Hanly. It is in the form of a sunken cruciform water-feature. Its focal point is a statue of the Children of Lir by Oisín Kelly, symbolising rebirth and resurrection, added in 1971.\n\nIn 1976, a contest was held to find a poem which could express the appreciation and inspiration of this struggle for freedom. The winner was Dublin born author Liam Mac Uistín, whose poem \"\"We Saw a Vision\"\", an \"aisling\" style poem, is written in Irish, French, and English on the stone wall of the monument. The \"aisling\" ( \"vision\") form was used in eighteenth-century poems longing for an end to Ireland's miserable condition. \n\nIn Irish the poem reads:\nIn 2004, it was suggested that as part of the redesign of the square the Garden of Remembrance itself might be redesigned. This led to the construction of a new entrance on the garden's northern side in 2007.\n\nQueen Elizabeth II laid a wreath in the Garden of Remembrance during her state visit in May 2011, a gesture that was much praised in the Irish media, and which was also attended, upon invitation, by the widow and the daughter of the garden's designer Dáithí Hanly.\n\n"}
{"id": "2135817", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2135817", "title": "Cardamom Mountains", "text": "Cardamom Mountains\n\nThe Cardamom Mountains (, \"Chuor Phnom Krâvanh\"; , \"Thio Khao Banthat\", ), or Krâvanh Mountains, is a mountain range in the south west of Cambodia and Eastern Thailand. The majority of the range is within Cambodia.\n\nThe silhouette of the Cardamom Mountains appears in the provincial seal of Trat Province in Thailand.\n\nThe mountain range extends along a southeast-northwest axis from Chanthaburi Province in Thailand, and Koh Kong Province in Cambodia on the Gulf of Thailand, to the Veal Veang District in Pursat Province, and extends to the southeast by the Dâmrei (Elephant) Mountains. The Thai part of the range comprise heavily eroded and dispersed mountain fragments of which the Khao Sa Bap, Khao Soi Dao and Chamao-Wong Mountains, east, north and west of Chanthaburi respectively, are the most prominent.\n\nDense tropical rainforest prevails on the wet westward slopes which annually receive from of rainfall. By contrast, only 1,000 to 1,500 mm (40 to 60 inches) fall on the wooded eastern slopes in the rain shadow facing the interior Cambodian plain, such as the Kirirom National Park. Most of the mountains are a dense wilderness, with almost no human population or activity, but on the eastern slopes, cardamom and pepper are grown commercially, and several large-scale construction projects have begun since the turn of the century.\n\nThe highest elevation of the Cardamom Mountains is Phnom Aural in the northeast at . This is also Cambodia's highest peak. Phnom Samkos (1,717 m), Phnom Tumpor (1,516 m) and Phnom Kmoch (1,220 m) are other important summits in the Cambodian parts. In Thailand, the peaks of Khao Sa Bap (673 m), Khao Soi Dao Tai (1,675 m) and Khao Chamao [1,024 m) are the most prominent.\n\nThe mountains contain many historic sites from the 15th- to 17th-century, containing 60 cm exotic ceramic jars and rough-hewn log coffins set out on remote, natural rock ledges, scattered around the mountains. The jar burials are a unique feature of this region, and forms a previously unrecorded burial practice in Khmer cultural history. Local legends suggest the bones are the remains of Cambodian royalty.\n\nA unique rock art cave site known as Kanam depicts ancient elephants, elephant riders, deer and wild cow (or buffalo) in red ochre paint. The site is located in the eastern part of the Cardamoms near Kravanh Township (Pursat Province). The Cardamoms are home to one of the largest protected wild elephant populations in Southeast Asia. The human riders may represent elephant capture and training activities - a major cultural tradition among various ethnic groups in the area until the 1970s. Traditions, experts, and elephant populations were decimated by the Khmer Rouge Regime.\n\nThe cave and paintings may have played important roles for rituals and magic used to placate ancestors and spirits; seek protection (elephant capture is very dangerous); bring good fortune; and transmit specialized knowledge (teaching/training).\n\nSome of the paintings may be various species of wild cow or buffalo. It is difficult to distinguish the possible cow from the possible deer representations due to the simple silhouette style. However, cowhides are extremely important for lassoes, ropes, snares and riggings related to elephant capture. Local elephant masters claimed there was more ritual and magic associated with these highly critical items than all others related to elephant capture. Thus, wild cow or buffalo representation might be expected.\n\nThe large representation of deer may relate to the massive deerskin trade to Japan in the 15th - 17th centuries. Taiwan's deer populations had been almost annihilated due to insatiable demands for Samurai armor and Japanese accessories made of deerskin. Deerskin sourcing shifted to Cambodia and Thailand. As deer populations decreased, local hunters also may have resorted to more investment in magic and ritual to seek assistance from ancestors and spirits to increase luck. The paintings are thought to date from the late Angkorian period through the post-Angkor period (contemporaneous with the jar burials, perhaps created and used by the same ethnic groups). The site may date to as early as the Funan period (1st - 6th centuries) when the practice of capturing, training, and trading live elephants was first historically noted (a mission was sent to China in 357 AD with trained elephants as part of the tributary gifts to Emperor Mu of Jin). Whether or not elephant capture, training, and use for labor, prestige and warfare existed prior to the Funan period is unknown. It is possible that the practice, technology and knowledge was obtained through South Asian influence in the early first millennium AD.\n\nThese paintings help with understanding the ecological history. Local ethnic groups were able to maintain, sustain and promote elephant populations through a somewhat symbiotic relation until the 20th century. Deer and wild cow/buffalo, however, may have been hunted to near extinction by the 15th - 17th centuries. Eld's deer, muntjac, sambar, gaur, kouprey and banteng were probably far more prevalent in the past.\n\nPart of the mountains are home to indigenous people, including the Chhong in both Thailand and Cambodia, and the ethnic \"Por\" (or \"Pear\") in Pursat Province, Cambodia. They all belong to the group known as Pearic peoples. In Cambodia, indigenous people are collectively referred to as Khmer Loeu.\n\nThis largely inaccessible mountain range formed one of the last strongholds of the Khmer Rouge, driven out by Vietnamese forces during the Cambodian–Vietnamese War. The Thai border to the west acted as a conduit for Chinese support and, eventually, a sanctuary for fleeing Khmer fighters and refugees.\n\nThe inaccessibility of the hills has also helped to preserve the primeval forest and ecosystems of the area relatively intact. In 2002, however, a transborder highway to Thailand was completed south of the Cardamoms, along the coast. The highway has fragmented habitats for large mammals such as elephants, big cats and monkeys. The highway has also opened up for agricultural slash-and-burn projects and opportunistic poaching for endangered animals, all degrading the natural value and the forests ecosystems.\n\nTourism is relatively new to the Cardamom Mountains. In 2008, Wildlife Alliance launched a community-based ecotourism program in the village of Chi-Phat, marketed as the \"gateway to the Cardamoms\". Tourist visitors to Chi-Phat continue to grow and the community is regarded as a model for community-based ecotourism, with approximately 3,000 annual visitors generating more than $US 150,000 for the local community.\n\nInternational conservation organizations working in the area includes Wildlife Alliance, Conservation International, and Fauna and Flora International. In 2016, the southern slopes of the Cardamom Mountains were designated as a new national park; Southern Cardamom National Park. It appears, however, that rampant illegal poaching is continuing nonetheless.\n\nThese relatively isolated mountains are part of the Cardamom Mountains rain forests ecoregion, an important ecoregion of mostly tropical moist broadleaf forest. Being one of the largest and still mostly unexplored forests in Southeast Asia, it is separated from other rainforests in the region by the large Khorat Plateau to the north. For these reasons, the ecoregion is home to several endemic species and is a refuge for species who has been decimated or are endangered elsewhere. The Vietnamese Phú Quốc island off the coast of Cambodia has similar vegetation and is included in the ecoregion.\n\nMost of the ecoregion is covered in evergreen rain forest, but with several different habitats. Above 700 metres, a special thick evergreen forest-type dominates, and on the southern slopes of the Elephant Mountains, dwarf conifer \"Dacrydium elatum\" forests grows. On the Kirirom plateau, Tenasserim pine forest is found. The northern part of Cardamom Mountains is home to the southernmost natural habitats of \"Betula\" (species \"Betula alnoides\"). Throughout, \"Hopea pierrei\", an endangered canopy tree rare elsewhere, is relatively abundant in the Cardamom Mountains. Other angiosperm tree species are \"Anisoptera costata\", \"Anisoptera glabra\", \"Dipterocarpus costatus\", \"Hopea odorata\", \"Shorea hypochra\", \"Caryota urens\" and \"Oncosperma tigillarium\". Other conifers include \"Pinus kesiya\", \"Dacrycarpus imbricatus\", \"Podocarpus neriifolius\", \"P. pilgeri\" and \"Nageia wallichiana\".\n\nThe moist climate and undisturbed nature of the rocky mountainsides appears to have allowed a rich variety of wildlife to thrive, although the Cardamom and Elephant Mountains are poorly researched and the wildlife that is assumed to be here remains to be catalogued. They are thought to be home to over 100 mammals such as the large Indian civet and banteng cattle, and most importantly the mountains are thought to shelter at least 62 globally threatened animal species and 17 globally threatened trees, many of them endemic to Cambodia. Among the animals are fourteen endangered and threatened mammal species, including the largest population of Asian elephant in Cambodia and possibly the whole of Indochina although this still needs to be proved. Other mammals, many of which are threatened, include Indochinese tiger, clouded leopard (\"Pardofelis nebulosa\"), dhole (a wild dog) (\"Cuon alpinus\"), gaur (\"Bos gaurus\"), banteng (\"Bos javanicus\"), the disputed kting voar (\"Pseudonovibos spiralis\"), Malayan sun bear, pileated gibbon (\"Hylobates pileatus\"), Sumatran serow (\"Capricornis sumatraensis\"), Sunda pangolin and the Tenasserim white-bellied rat. There are at least 34 species of amphibians, three of them described as new species to science from here.\n\nThe rivers are home to both Irrawaddy and humpback dolphins and are home to some of the last populations on Earth of the very rare Siamese crocodiles and the only nearly extinct northern river terrapin, or \"royal turtle\" remaining in Cambodia. While the forests are habitat for more than 450 bird species, half of Cambodia's total of which four, the chestnut-headed partridge, Lewis's silver pheasant (\"Lophura nycthemera lewisi\"), the green peafowl (\"Pavo muticus\") and the Siamese partridge (\"Arborophila diversa\") are endemic to these mountains. A reptile and amphibian survey led in June 2007 by Dr Lee Grismer of La Sierra University in Riverside, California, US and the conservation organisation Fauna and Flora International uncovered new species, such as a new \"Cnemaspis\" gecko, \"C. neangthyi\".\n\nWith the establishment of the Southern Cardamom National Park in May 2016, nearly all of the Cardamom Mountains are now under some form of high level protection, mostly national park area and wildlife sanctuaries. The level of active protection has been criticised.\n\nThe human population of the Cardamom Mountain Range, although very small, is extremely poor. Threats to the ecological stability and biological diversity of the region include illegal wildlife poaching, habitat destruction due to illegal logging, construction and infrastructure projects, plantation clearings, mining projects, and forest fires caused by slash-and-burn agriculture. While the Cambodian forests in the Cardamom Mountains are fairly intact, the section in Thailand has been badly affected.\nProtections in the Cardamom Mountains comprise the following:\n\n\n\nThe flora, fauna and ecosystems of the Cardamom Mountains are threatened by large construction and infrastructure projects, mining, illegal logging, and opportunistic hunting and poaching.\n\nDespite the very high level of protectional status, the actual protection of the conservation areas and implementation of the law has been very poor. The violation of the protection laws has happened on all levels, from opportunistic locals, and local business entrepreneurs, to governmental institutions, foreign companies and international criminal organisations. In the late 2010s, international conservation organisations, and the UN, has collaborated with the Cambodian government to halt a number of planned construction projects and clearings in protected areas. In 2016, the Cambodian government established a collaboration with international conservation organisations to increase on-ground patrolling and actual park ranger services, building several ranger headquarters and hiring armed personnel with arresting rights. This might signify a change in the destructive trends, at least concerning governmental responsibilities.\n\nThe Cardamom Mountains are an emerging tourist destination.\n\nThe village of Chi Phat runs a Community-Based Eco-Tourism project with the support of conservation NGO, Wildlife Alliance. Previously a logging and hunting community, villagers now make sustainable income through homestays, multiple day guided treks to natural and cultural sites, mountain bike, boat and bird watching tours.\n\nThe Wildlife Release Station in Koh Kong Province is a release site for animals rescued from the illegal wildlife trade in Cambodia by the NGO Wildlife Alliance. Binturong, porcupine, pangolins, civets, macaques and an array of birds are among the many species that have been released on site. The station was opened to tourists in December 2013, offering guests an insight into the workings of a wildlife rehabilitation and release site while staying in jungle chalets and enjoying Cambodian hospitality. Activities offered can include feeding resident wildlife, jungle hiking, radio tracking and setting camera traps to monitor released wildlife.\n\nWild Animal Rescue (WAR Adventures Cambodia) also organize a wide range of deep jungle activities from the family trekking to the hardcore RAID adventure, jungle orientation and survival training course, even animals and human tracking course, all in the region of Sre Ambel in the South-west of the Cardamom mountains.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2135826", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2135826", "title": "Haddington Hill", "text": "Haddington Hill\n\nHaddington Hill (also called Wendover Hill) is a hill in The Chilterns, and the highest point in the English county of Buckinghamshire. On the north-eastern flank is Coombe Hill, not to be confused with another Coombe Hill 4 kilometres to the south-west.\n\nHaddington Hill is owned by the Forestry Commission, whose Wendover Woods cover much of the hill. Many tracks run through the forest, and a car park is located near the summit among the trees: the flat summit means the precise location of the highest point is difficult to determine with certainty. However, in the woods to the east of the car park there are a series of large stones bearing the inscription 'The Chiltern Summit'. The stones are surrounded by trees.\n\nThe peak is accessible by road, with a car park near the stone. It is also possible to climb on foot.\n\nThe highest point of Hertfordshire, at , is on the eastern ridge of this hill, on the boundary with Buckinghamshire.\n\n"}
{"id": "2135828", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2135828", "title": "Apollo 21", "text": "Apollo 21\n\n\"Apollo 21\" is an apocryphal reference to an eleventh crewed Moon landing mission of NASA's Apollo program. Apollo contracted for the construction of fifteen Saturn V launch vehicles used to launch the Apollo spacecraft to the Moon, and achieved the first crewed landing with the sixth one (Apollo 11), leaving nine for follow-on lunar missions, through Apollo 20. However, budget cuts caused NASA to cancel the last three missions, ending the lunar program after Apollo 17. One Saturn V was used to launch the Skylab space station, and parts of the other two became museum displays.\n\nAn \"Apollo 21\" lunar landing mission appears in three twenty-first-century works of fiction.\n\nThe Apollo program used a Saturn V to launch the first crewed test of the complete Apollo spacecraft, consisting of the Apollo Command/Service Module and a separate Apollo Lunar Module landing craft in a low Earth orbit, on the Apollo 9 mission. However, the original plan for this test would have used two launches of the smaller Saturn IB Earth-orbital launch vehicle: the first would launch the crew in the Command/Service Module, followed shortly by a second, uncrewed launch of the Lunar Module, with which the crew would rendezvous in orbit. Some people have speculated that tentative plans of an \"Apollo 21\" might have been made assuming availability of the extra Saturn V that would have left, although by the time NASA resumed planning crewed missions using this numbering sequence (defined on April 24, 1967), the dual-Saturn IB plan had been replaced with the single Saturn V. There is no evidence NASA ever planned an eleventh Moon landing mission.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2135830", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2135830", "title": "Tui Nayau", "text": "Tui Nayau\n\nTu’i Nayau is the title held by the paramount chief of the Lau Islands in Fiji and is synonymous with the title holders over lordship of these islands. When translated, \"Tu’i Nayau\" means \"Lord of Nayau\", an island north of Lakeba, the latter accepted by many to be the chief island in the Lauan archipelago. Prior to being installed as \"Tu’i Nayau\", the claimant must first be confirmed upon the decision of the noble households making up the Vuanirewa clan and then installed \"Sau\" or High Chief of Lau. Not every \"Sau\" has been installed \"Tu’i Nayau\".\n\n\"Tu’i Nayau\" was originally an independent title referring specifically to the overlord of Nayau, then separate from the Lakeba State.\n\nThe earliest oral records suggest that the progenitor of the leading family of Nayau stemmed from Tuivanuakula, celebrated chief who had won the infamous Cici Turaga, but was not accepted by his older brothers and relatives as he was the youngest in that race. Tuivanuakula had two sons and a daughter, Buivaroro, Kalouyalewa and Adi Keletu.\n\nThe period after the death of Chief Niumataiwalu in Ono-i-Lau can be assumed to have followed with the conquest of Lakeba by the Levuka people from Bau and supplanting the supremacy of the Cekena dynasty in the Lakeba State with a dictatorship under the heavy hand of the Levuka peoples’ leader, Codro. Before this occurred, Niumatawalu's surviving sons had fled and sought refuge with their relatives.\n\nIt was during this exile on Nayau when Rasolo, Niumataiwalu's son set up his foundations near a \"rewa\" (\"Cerbera manghas\") tree. The name Vuanirewa comes into existence. With the passing of Vukinavanua, an ensuing dispute among the nobles over who should succeed him arose. According to oral history, the high priest intervened by taking all claimants to the top towering cliffs called \"Delaiwawa\" and indicated that the only one to leap from the cliff and live would be worthy to succeed to the title. It is here that Rasolo enters into the legend, as he is the only one who takes up the challenge, leaps and survives.\n\nInstalled as \"Tu’i Nayau\", Rasolo was approached by the Lakeba people to free them from Codro's tyrannical rule. It is said Rasolo allowed himself to be approached three times before agreeing to their request. He and his brother Matawalu then lead an army with supporting Lakeba forces which routed and expelled Codro and the Levuka people. With this triumph Rasolo was brought over from Nayau and installed as \"Roko Sau\", in which the whole of Lakeba took part.\n\nRasolo was succeeded by his brother Matawalu, who hated his brother's wife Laufitu. He removed himself to Bau for a long period, allowing for his nephew Dranivia, son of Uluilakeba I to seize power. Matawalu upon hearing this returned to Lakeba, reasserted his authority, whilst his nephew fled to Nayau. This point takes a dramatic and dark turn in the history of the Vuanirewa as Malani, Rasolo's son concerned with the anti-Tongan attitude of his uncle and fear for his mother's people well-being, took the opportunity of Dranivia's expulsion to lead a coup that lead to kin slaying and the death of Matawalu. Matawalu's death again heralded Dranivia's return, but his attempt at taking Lakeba was thwarted, with the support of Malani's Nayau relative Delailoa, on whom he bestowed the name Lagonilakeba in gratitude.\n\nThe Vuanirewa unwritten rules on succession tend to follow the following three principles:\n\nThe installation ceremony of the \"Tu’i Nayau\" takes place in Maumi, on top of the mountain called Delaiwawa on the island of Nayau. The ceremony is performed by the Master of Ceremonies and the leaders from the three villages in the island of Nayau. After the ceremony chief has a special area to bath for four days. The place is called Muaituraga, located close to the village of Narocivo.\n\nThe most recent \"Tu’i Nayau\" was Sir Kamisese Mara, who was installed in 1969 and died in 2004. He belonged to the noble household Matailakeba and his son, \"Ratu\" Finau Mara is the current heir to this title. Although there was an initial speculation that the title might be taken up by a member of the noble household Vatuwaqa, this has since been refuted with the Vuanirewa elders having confirmed Finau's candidacy in 2005. No installation date has been confirmed as of 2007. \"Ratu\" Mara was the first \"Tui Nayau\" to also hold the title \"Tui Lau\".\n\nWhen the \"Tui Nayau\" is traditionally installed, his wife or in the past his senior wife was likewise installed with him and bore the title \"Radini Nayau\" or \"Lady of Nayau\". The most recent \"Radini Nayau\" was the \"Roko Tui Dreketi\", Lady Lala Mara.\n\n\nThe table below lists the individuals who have held the title of \"Roko Sau.\" \n\n"}
{"id": "2135841", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2135841", "title": "Benefit fraud in the United Kingdom", "text": "Benefit fraud in the United Kingdom\n\nBenefit fraud is a form of welfare fraud as found within the system of government benefits paid to individuals by the welfare state in the United Kingdom.\n\nThe Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) define benefit fraud as when someone obtains state benefit they are not entitled to or deliberately fails to report a change in their personal circumstances. The DWP claim that fraudulent benefit claims amounted to around £900 million in 2008–09.\n\nThe most common form of benefit fraud is when a person receives unemployment benefits, while working. Another common form of fraud is when the receivers of benefits claim that they live alone, but they are financially supported by a partner or spouse. Failing to inform the state about a \"change of circumstances\", for example, that your partner is now living with you, or that you have moved house, or that a relative has died, leaving you some money may also be fraud by omission.\n\nIn 2002, the DWP launched a 'Targeting Benefit Thieves' advertising campaign to spread their message that benefit fraud carried a criminal sanction. The most recent campaign makes claims about the likelihood of getting caught and the consequences of committing benefit fraud using ‘And they thought they’d never be caught’ as the leading slogan.\n\nFor 2018-19 the government's benefit fraud figure was £2.3bn (1.2%) for benefits administered by the Department of Work and Pensions. The tax credit system, administered by HMRC, has combined error and fraud figures (net over-payment) for 2015-16 of £1.35 billion or 4.8% of finalised tax credit entitlement. HMRC claim that \"the vast majority of organised fraud claims are stopped quickly and awards in payment are terminated.\"\n\nThe \"State of the Nation\" report published in 2010 by the Government of David Cameron estimated the total benefit fraud in the United Kingdom in 2009/10 to be approximately £1 billion. Figures from the Department for Work and Pensions show that benefit fraud is thought to have cost taxpayers £1.2 billion during 2012–13, up 9 per cent on the year before. A poll conducted by the Trades Union Congress in 2012 found that perceptions among the British public were that benefit fraud was high – on average people thought that 27% of the British welfare budget is claimed fraudulently; however, official UK Government figures have stated that the proportion of fraud stands at 0.7% of the total welfare budget in 2011/12.\n\nThe political scientist Adam Taylor claimed that the targeting of benefit fraud was disproportionate and was evidence of \"government using strong-arm tactics on the weakest members of British society\": the disabled and the poor. Taylor argued that the amount of money lost to false benefit claims was small compared to the huge amount lost to tax fraud which he estimated as costing the UK economy £150bn (this compares to the HMRC estimate of £4.1bn), yet he believed that comparatively little and in most cases nothing at all was done to pursue corporate tax evaders who defraud the people of the UK. Taylor argued that the crucial difference between these two practices is that \"the former is committed by the weakest and most vulnerable of society, while the far more damaging crime is being committed by the richest (and the most corrupt traitors) in the UK.\"\n\nSince the introduction of the Welfare Reform Act 2007, councils can independently investigate a number of Social Security benefits.\n\nA benefit fraudster is extremely unlikely to be investigated unless some third party reports them to, and provides evidence to, the police or the Job Centre (i.e. they slip up and admit it, or if they act in a particularly suspicious manner during a routine encounter with Job Centre staff, perhaps taking work telephone calls while at a signing-on appointment). That is to say that the two key reasons for investigating someone are:\n\nWhen investigating cases, Fraud Officers will collect facts and a decision will be made on whether or not to take further action. They may gather information about the claimant and their family members, then compare it with information already given on claim forms or in interviews.\n\nOfficers can contact private and public organisations that hold information on a suspected benefit thief including banks, building societies, utility providers. If evidence is found that benefit fraud has been committed, any of the following may happen:\n\n\nSome UK benefits can not be claimed when people go abroad. Between April 2008 and March 2009 it is estimated that £55 million was lost as a result of benefit fraud overpayments to British claimants who did not tell the authorities they were living or travelling abroad.\n\nWhen someone is caught for benefit fraud there are three key 'sanctions' that DWP or the Council can apply. These are formal cautions, administrative penalties and prosecution. By section 121 of the Welfare Reform Act 2012 from 8 May 2012 cautions will no longer be offered by DWP.\n\nThe main criterion for the offering of a caution is that the person has to have admitted that they have committed an offence. Other than this criterion, there is no statutory framework regulating which sanction is used in disposal of a case. This is a matter of policy for the relevant authority. The Department for Work and Pensions has a national policy; each Local Authority will have its own Policy which will set different criteria and financial guidelines.\n\nThe Administrative Penalty is effectively a fine and is set at 30% or 50% of the total amount overpaid to them (the percentage applied is dependent upon when the overpayment period commenced - overpayments occurring wholly on or after 08.05.2012 incur a 50% fine).\nThis figure is set in section 115A(3) Security Administration Act 1992 there is no negotiation on this. In addition to this, benefit thieves also need to pay back all of the money they deliberately defrauded. The suspect does not have to admit their guilt to be offered an Administrative Penalty, however it should only be offered by the Department for Work and Pensions, or the Local Authority if they believe there is sufficient evidence for court proceedings to be considered if the offer is refused.\n\nProsecution may typically occur in England & Wales using the Social Security Administration Act 1992, or under the Theft Act 1978, or the Fraud Act 2006; in Northern Ireland under corresponding legislation; or in Scotland under Common Law Fraud. A Prosecution is brought when the value of the overpaid benefit is so great, or the period of the fraud is lengthy, or the person may have been in a position of trust, or the fraud was very blatant. Any prosecution brought by the Department for Work and Pensions or a Local Authority should have been subject to the Public Interest Test as set out in the Code of Practice for Crown Prosecutors. In Scotland cases of benefit fraud are reported to the Procurator Fiscal for prosecution.\n\nWhere cases of benefit fraud result in criminal prosecution, in England & Wales such prosecutions are generally brought either under section 112 Social Security Administration Act 1992 (where no dishonesty is alleged) or under s111A of the same Act (where dishonesty is alleged). There are a number of legal cases relevant to prosecutions under these sections. Key points are dealt with in more detail in technical articles on benefit fraud.\n\nThe penalties for benefit fraud may be mitigated where it can be shown that the defendant would have been entitled to other forms of financial benefit, such as UK Tax Credits, had an appropriate claim on the true facts been lodged at the time.\n\nA person convicted of benefit fraud may be held to have a 'criminal lifestyle' in confiscation proceedings under Parts 2, 3 & 4 of the Proceeds of Crime Act 2002.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2135843", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2135843", "title": "Steven Bonspille", "text": "Steven Bonspille\n\nSteven Bonspille (Mohawk) is a political leader; he was Grand Chief (2005–2008) of the Kanesatake community located northwest of Montreal, Quebec, Canada. \n\nBonspille is a traditionalist, elected to the chiefs' council in 2001. The community had adopted a new system of electoral politics in 1991, following the Oka Crisis. Formerly chiefs were selected by clan mothers as part of a traditional, hereditary system based in matrilineal kinship. Children are considered born into their mother's clans in the community, and derive their status from the mother.\n\nIn the early 2000s, Bonspille became a key figure in a power struggle in the government of Kanesatake. He and two other traditionalist chiefs at the time, Pearl Bonspille and John Harding (Sha ko hen the tha), opposed then-Grand Chief James Gabriel (1996-2004), who had been elected three times. These three men generally considered Gabriel a modernist. \n\nJournalist Benoit Aubin has observed that there are strains of ethnic tension among people in the community. Harding and Gabriel both have mixed ancestry, but Harding's mother is Mohawk, so he belongs to her clan under the matrilineal system. Gabriel has a Mohawk father and is a registered member of the community, but his mother is not Mohawk.\n\nAmong the issues, the traditionalists were concerned about Gabriel's trying to reduce sales of contraband cigarettes. Most importantly, they opposed his having hired private police forces (with funding from Ottawa) for a drug raid to be conducted in the community in January 2004. More than 200 protesters confined these officers to the police station, and that night there was violence and arson in the community. Numerous people were prosecuted. Grand Chief Gabriel left the community for his safety after his house and car were burned. During an interim period, traditionalists created a police force in the community; an official interim police director provided support to those Mohawk living in Oka, Quebec, which surrounds Kanesatake.\n\nIn 2005 Bonspille defeated Gabriel in the popular election for grand chief. A slate of six persons were elected to the chiefs' council (band council), replacing both Harding and Pearl Bonspille. All were supporters of James Gabriel. After finishing his term in 2008, Bonspille moved with his family to adjacent Oka, Quebec.\n"}
{"id": "2135844", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2135844", "title": "Charlie Kerins", "text": "Charlie Kerins\n\nCharlie Kerins (; 23 January 1918 – 1 December 1944) was a physical force Irish Republican, and Chief of Staff of the Irish Republican Army. After spending two years on the run he was captured by the Gardaí in 1944. Following his subsequent trial and conviction for the 1942 murder of Garda Detective Sergeant Denis O'Brien, Kerins was hanged at Mountjoy Prison in Dublin.\n\nKerins was born in Caherina, Tralee, County Kerry, Ireland and attended Balloonagh Mercy Convent School and then the CBS, Edward Street. At the age of 13, he won a Kerry County Council scholarship and completed his secondary education at the Green Christian Brothers and the Jeffers Institute. In 1930, Kerins passed the Intermediate Certificate with honours and the matriculation examination to the NUI. He later did a commercial course and took up employment in a radio business in Tralee.\n\nKerins was also active in the Gaelic Athletic Association and in 1939 won a county medal in football with his local team, O'Rahilly's, now renamed Kerins O'Rahilly's in his honour.\n\nIn 1940, Kerins was sworn into the IRA, and was appointed to the GHQ staff in May 1942. At the time, the Fianna Fáil Government of Eamonn De Valera was determined to preserve Irish neutrality during World War II. Therefore, the IRA's bombing campaign in England, its attacks against targets in Northern Ireland, and its ties to the intelligence services of Nazi Germany were regarded as severe threats to Ireland's national security.\n\nAccording to historian Tim Pat Coogan, \"An iron gloved approach to the I.R.A. was the order of the day with vigorous raids and interrogations. As a result, relations between individual I.R.A. men and the [Irish] Special Branch became understandably strained, and the I.R.A., in its shattered and disorganized condition, came to regard the Special Branch as a greater enemy than the British Crown.\"\n\nIRA men who were captured by the Gardaí were interned for the duration of the war by the Irish Army in the Curragh Camp, County Kildare.\n\nOn the morning of 9 September 1942, Garda Detective Sergeant Denis O'Brien was leaving his home in Ballyboden, Dublin. He was between his front gate and his car when he was cut down with Thompson submachine guns. D.S. O'Brien, an Anti-Treaty veteran of the Irish Civil War, had enlisted in the Garda Síochána in 1933. He was one of the most effective Detectives of the Special Branch Division, which had its headquarters at Dublin Castle. \n\nAccording to historian Tim Pat Coogan, \"The shooting greatly increased public feeling against the I.R.A., particularly as the murder was carried out in full view of his wife. As she held her dying husband, she watched his assailants cycling past.\"\n\nFollowing the arrest of Hugh McAteer in October 1942, Kerins was named Chief of Staff of the IRA. Despite a massive manhunt by Gardaí, Kerins remained at large for two years. Travel author Dervla Murphy recounts in her book on Northern Ireland, \"A Place Apart\" that Kerins stayed at her family's County Waterford home for two weeks while he was on the run, having given his name as Pat Carney. He had been sent to the Murphy's by Dervla's aunt, Dr. Kathleen Farrell, who was a staunch IRA supporter, and Dervla (aged 12 at the time) and Kerins struck up a friendship. Several months after Kerins left the Murphy's, he was captured.\n\nKerins had previously left papers and guns hidden at Kathleen Farrell's house in the Dublin suburb of Rathmines. He telephoned the house, as he intended to retrieve them. However, Dr. Farrell's telephone had been tapped by the Gardaí. On 15 June 1944, Kerins was arrested in an early morning raid. He was sleeping when the Gardaí entered his bedroom and did not have an opportunity to reach the Thompson submachine gun which was hidden under his bed.\n\nAt a trial before the Special Criminal Court in Collins Barracks, Dublin, Kerins was formally charged on 2 October 1944 for the \"shooting at Rathfarnham of Detective Dinny O’Brien\". According to Coogan, \"At the end of his trial, the president of the Military Court delayed sentence until later in the day to allow Kerins, if he wished, to make an application whereby he might have avoided the capital sentence. When the court resumed, Kerins said: 'You could have adjourned it for six years as far as I am concerned, as my attitude towards this Court will always be the same.' He thus deprived himself of the right to give evidence, to face cross examination, or to call witnesses.\"\n\nDespite legal moves initiated by Seán MacBride, public protests, and parliamentary intervention by TDs from Clann na Talmhan, Labour, and Independent Oliver J. Flanagan in Leinster House, the Fianna Fáil government of Éamon de Valera refused to issue a reprieve. On 1 December 1944 in Mountjoy Prison, Kerins was hanged by British chief executioner Albert Pierrepoint, who was employed by the Irish Government for such occasions.\n\nKerins was the last IRA member to be executed in the Republic of Ireland. He was buried in the prison yard. In September 1948, his remains were exhumed and released to his family. He is buried in the Republican Plot at Rath Cemetery, Tralee, County Kerry.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2135845", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2135845", "title": "Meron (physics)", "text": "Meron (physics)\n\nA meron or half-instanton is a Euclidean space-time solution of the Yang–Mills field equations. It is a singular non-self-dual solution of topological charge 1/2. The instanton is believed to be composed of two merons.\n\nA meron can be viewed as a tunneling event between two Gribov vacua. In that picture, the meron is an event which starts from vacuum, then a Wu–Yang monopole emerges, which then disappears again to leave the vacuum in another Gribov copy.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2135847", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2135847", "title": "Flag of Transnistria", "text": "Flag of Transnistria\n\nThe flag of the Pridnestrovian Moldavian Republic consists of three horizontal bands of red, green and red, of vertical width 3:2:3, with the golden hammer and sickle and a gold-bordered red star in the upper canton. Transnistria adopted this design that comprises a version of the 1952–1990 flag of the Moldavian Soviet Socialist Republic in the 2000 Law about State Symbols.\n\nThe flag of the Moldavian Soviet Socialist Republic served as the republic's flag until the dissolution of the Soviet Union in 1991. When Moldova became independent, some places in Transnistria refused to fly the new Moldovan flag and continued to fly the flag of the Soviet Union. Continued use of the flag of the former Moldavian SSR was popular and it was officially reintroduced as the flag of Transnistria in 2000. Confusingly, despite the flag and coat of arms, Transnistria is not a socialist state. It is the only state in Europe that uses the hammer and sickle on its flag (although the flags of Bryansk Oblast, Vladimir Oblast and Oryol city in Russia also have the hammer and sickle).\n\nFor government usage, only the state flag is valid. Transnistrian law permits the use of a simplified version of the flag for non-governmental use (personal and commercial usage) without the hammer and sickle and red star and without regard to shape or size. The most common size is still 1:2, but 2:3 versions have also been used.\nIn 2009 the Parliament of Transnistria discussed a proposal to replace the civil flag (plain red-green-red) with a new flag, carrying three horizontal stripes in the colours white, blue and red, being almost identical to the flag of the Russian Federation, but with different aspect ratio (1:2 instead of Russia's 2:3). \nThe primary reason for the second flag is that it indicates Transnistria's desire for closer ties with Russia, a guarantor of Transnistria's independence from Moldova. In a 2006 referendum, 97.2% of Transnistrians voted in favour of increased association with Russia. The new flag would be used alongside the current state flag. On 12 April 2017, the Transnistrian Supreme Council passed a motion making the new flag Transnistria's second official flag.\n\nThe presidential flag is a 1:1, yellow fringed version of the civil flag with the coat-of-arms in the centre. It was adopted on 18 July 2000 and replaced an earlier version dating from 1997.\n\nThe army flag is a blue flag with a yellow bordered red cross. It is similar to that of the Moldovan army, but does not include the Moldovan coat-of-arms.\n\nA customs flag is also in use by Transnistrian customs. It is a primarily green flag with two red bands at the bottom. The central part of the flag is dominated by the symbol of Transnistrian customs.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2135861", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2135861", "title": "Charles Evans Jr.", "text": "Charles Evans Jr.\n\nCharles Evans Jr. is an American film producer and documentary film director. He produced Johnny Depp's first directorial effort, \"The Brave\". He was one of four producers on the 2004 Howard Hughes biopic \"The Aviator\", although his production credit was controversial. Evans is the nephew of former motion picture studio executive Robert Evans, and the son of fashion industry executive and motion picture producer Charles Evans.\n\nEvans was born in Manhattan, New York City, New York, 1963 to Charles Evans Sr. and his first wife, Frances (a documentary filmmaker). His uncle is studio executive and actor Robert Evans. Charles had two sisters: Melissa (born in 1965) and Elizabeth (born in 1966). His parents divorced in 1967. Charles attended the Allen-Stevenson School, a private elementary school for boys.\n\nIn 1975, Charles and his family were caught in a deadly fire in their triplex apartment on East 80th Street in New York City. His mother and two sisters were asphyxiated by toxic fumes during the fire. The fire was caused by ashes falling out of their fireplace. Charles Jr., sleeping in another room, was rescued by firefighters and uninjured.\n\nIn the aftermath of the deadly fire, 12-year-old Charles Jr. \"put on an overcoat and went to live with my father,\" in his words. He also began taking illegal narcotics. He developed a serious addiction. Charles Jr. attended the Williston Northampton School, University of California, Berkeley and then the USC School of Cinematic Arts. His father was ambivalent about the decision. \"I certainly didn't give him any encouragement. I think it's a stinking business. But he's wanted to do it since he was in grade school. He wanted to either write, direct or produce.\"\n\nHis first professional credit came on the 1988 horror film on \"Monkey Shines\", which was financially backed by his father. He served as an assistant director on the picture. His first producer's credit came with the 1990 film \"The Brave\", which was also Johnny Depp's directorial debut. Evans formed his own production company, Acappella Pictures, in 1993. In 1998, Evans said he had purchased a script by Frederic Raphael which adapted the 1905 Edith Wharton novel, \"The House of Mirth\", for the big screen. But financing and cast did not fall into placed in time, and producer Olivia Stewart's competing project made it into production first. (It was released in 2000.)\n\nEvans was also the producer and director of the 2012 documentary film \"Addiction Incorporated\". The documentary reports on the ways in which research scientists, corporate whistleblowers, the news media, and attorneys for smokers exposed the tobacco industry's attempts to conceal the ways in which cigarettes were made more addictive.\n\nEvans also served a producer of the 2004 Howard Hughes biopic, \"The Aviator\". His involvement with the film proved controversial. According to Evans, he began researching the life of Hughes in 1993. In 1996, Evans optioned the book \"Howard Hughes: The Untold Story\", by Pat H. Broeske and Peter Harry Brown. Evans hired several writers, who produced five or six drafts of a script, but the screenplay was still not in an acceptable form. These included several drafts of a script by Broeske and Brown, and at least one version by Dean Ollins. Evans then met with actor Kevin Spacey, who was interested in directing the film. Spacey helped Evans find financing, and New Regency Productions agreed to put up the money. Screenwriter Jack Fincher was brought aboard to do another script draft.\n\nEvans convinced Leonardo DiCaprio to play the lead in 1998. But DiCaprio insisted that he be allowed to pick the director. Evans removed Spacey as the director, DiCaprio joined the production, and in December 1998 DiCaprio chose Michael Mann as the director. Mann subsequently hired Tony- and Oscar-nominated screenwriter John Logan in the spring of 1999 to write yet another screenplay. Logan's contract with the producers guaranteed him sole screenplay credit. The producers and director were also barred from hiring writers to revise Logan's script, or from claiming any role in the script (even if they made a contribution). Evans began sharing with Mann and Logan his large archive of Hughes memorabilia and biographical materials (which Evans says he had been building since 1995).\n\nIn March 2000, Evans says, he learned that Mann had taken the project to New Line Cinema. Evans sued for breach of implied contract, fraud, and intentional interference with economic advantage. Mann strongly denied the accusations, arguing that his Howard Hughes biopic had nothing to do with the one he and Evans had worked on. A confidential out-of-court settlement was reached in 2001, and Evans was granted producer credit on Mann's New Line Cinema picture.\n\nMann later decided to step aside as director in favor Martin Scorsese. Mann's business partner, Sandy Climan, was added to the film as a producer. Also added as producer was Graham King, whose Initial Entertainment Group helped finance the picture.\n\nControversy continued to dog the film during awards season. In 1998, five producers accepted Oscars for the film \"Shakespeare in Love\". Worried that producer credits were getting out of hand, the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences changes its rules to permit no more than three producers to receive an Oscar for a Best Picture film. The Howard Hughes biopic—now titled \"The Aviator\"—had four producers. \"The Aviator\" was nominated for best motion picture at the 2004 Producers Guild of America Awards. However, the Producers Guild of America ruled that neither Evans nor Climan deserved a producer's credit. \"The Aviator\" won the award for best motion picture, with King and Mann accepting the honor. During the after-show picture-taking, King and Mann invited Climan and Scorsese to stand on the stage with them, but Evans was not. Evans pushed his way past security, and stood with the other producers. The photograph shows Climan, King, Mann, and Scorsese facing one way, while Evans stands slightly apart and facing another direction. Evans subsequently demanded that he be included as one of the three producers nominated to receive the Oscar should \"The Aviator\" win the Academy Award for Best Picture. Shortly before the Oscar ceremony, the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences decided that, although Evans and Climan were both producers of \"The Aviator\", neither individual qualified under Academy rules to be on stage to receive the Oscar. As matters stood, \"The Aviator\" lost the Best Picture nod to \"Million Dollar Baby\".\n\nCharles Evans Jr. is the chair of the board of trustees of the Charles Evans Foundation, a nonprofit charitable foundation established by his father. The Charles Evans Foundation provides grant awards to a wide range of projects in the fields of AIDS/HIV education and research, Alzheimer's disease research, the arts, assistance for the developmentally disabled, assistance for the homeless, cancer research, education, environmentalism, fire safety, health care, investigative journalism, literacy, and medical research, among others.\n\n"}
{"id": "2135867", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2135867", "title": "Radini Nayau", "text": "Radini Nayau\n\nRadini Nayau is the courtesy title given to the wife or chief wife of the Tui Nayau, Paramount Chief of the Lau Islands in Fiji. The bearer of this title is installed at the same time as the Tui Nayau. In the past when polygamy was the norm and the Tui Nayau had many wives, the chief or senior wife bore this title.\n\nThe first holder of the title is likely to have been Laufitu, the senior wife of Rasolo, the first installed Tui Nayau. The last holder of this title was Ro Lady Lala Mara, who as the Roko Tui Dreketi was a Paramount Chief in her own right.\n\nThe following table lists consorts of Tui Nayaus who have held the title.\n"}
{"id": "2135869", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2135869", "title": "Fischbach (Taunus)", "text": "Fischbach (Taunus)\n\nFischbach () is one of six administrative subdivisions of the town of Kelkheim in the Main-Taunus district of Germany. It is situated at the western border of Frankfurt am Main in the Taunus hills. Fischbach is a middle-class town and has about 5,900 inhabitants.\n\nThe town lies in the valley of a stream with the same name in the Taunus hills. It is north-west of central Kelheim and adjoins Hornau to the east. The town of Eppstein is to the west and Königstein im Taunus is northeast of Fischbach.\nThe source of the Fischbach stream is in Ruppertshain. It flows through Fischbach and the Fischbachtal (Fishbachl valley) to merge with the Schwarzbach stream in Eppstein. Hill peaks around Fischbach are the Fischbacher Kopf, Staufen and Rossert. Fischbach is a dormitory town for many working in Frankfurt am Main.\n\nBundesstraße 455 (federal highway 455) heads from Königstein via Fischbach to Eppstein and Wiesbaden. The former through road was substituted by a bypass in the early 1980s. The new road does not bypass Fischbach but crosses the town on an artificial embankment, with a bridge over the central street Langstraße. Bus routes connect Fischbach with Kelkheim railway station and the Frankfurt Transit system.\n\nThe old town centre is situated at the intersection of the main roads from Kelkheim to the suburb of Ruppertshain and from Königstein to Eppstein. The first road, Langstraße, is the main road of the old part of the village. \nIn the 19th century Fischbach grew along both streets, especially Kelkheimer Straße and Eppsteiner Straße.\nFischbach's population swelled after World War II with refugees from areas that were ceded to other countries, leading to street names such as Egerländer Straße and Königsberger Straße. Residential areas were built on both sides of Kelkheimer Straße and on the south-side of the town, around Staufenstraße and Sodener Straße. In the north, only a small residential estate was built on a former brickyard area (An der Ziegelei). In the 1970s summer cottages were built on the road to Königstein, and are now year-round residences.\n\nFischbach was founded by Franks. The first document which proves the existence of Fischbach (gift to Fulda convent), is dated in the year 780. In the 8th and 9th century imperial laws appear. In 813, the village was in possession of Earl Liutfried as royal feud. Starting from 890 Fischbach was part of the shire of Uualahes and during early and high middle ages a member of the Niddagau province.\n\nIn 1348 the Lords of Eppstein became the new rulers. In 1581 Fischbach became part of Archbishopric of Mainz and was governed from Königstein. After Napoleon split the Holy Roman Empire in 1806, Fischbach and the vicinity was part of Duchy of Nassau. Nassau was annexed by Prussia in 1866 degraded to Wiesbaden district of the Prussian province Hessen-Nassau. Fischbach attended to this administration till the foundation of Hesse in 1946.\n\nAfter being integrated to Prussia, Fischbach belonged to the Upper-Taunus district. Since 1928 it was part of the newly founded Main-Taunus district. In 1977 Fischbach was incorporated to the city of Kelkheim, together with the former community Rossert (Ruppertshain and Eppenhain).\n\nThe emblem shows the „chevrons of Eppstein“ on the right as symbol of the former affiliation to the neighbour town. When Fischbach was part of Archbishopric of Mainz, the chevrons had been substituted by the „wheel of Mainz“ (Mainzer Rad). It has been removed after Fischbach became part of Hessen-Nassau. The left field shows, according to the town name, two red fishes in a silver creek.\n\nThe economy of the village was based on agriculture and fruit-growing for centuries. Typically for the lower Taunus are fruit grasslands with apple trees. Since the beginning of the 19th century, many carpenters and joineries were located in the town. Different from Kelkheim, the furniture industry could not be conserved to the present. Besides, the clayey ground allowed setting up brickyards. Also the industry, especially Farbwerke in Höchst (Hoechst AG, today Industriepark Höchst), is a source of income since the late 19th century. The opening of railway line from Königstein to Höchst in 1901 improved the connections to Höchst and Frankfurt. Before that, many workers had to walk every morning to Soden railway station (approx. ).\n\nAfter World War II, Fischbach had about 1,000 inhabitants. Due to refugee settlement, mainly from Sudetenland, the number of residents was doubled. The village became even bigger in the 60s and 70s due to suburbanization. Fischbach changed from a small Taunus-village to a suburb of Frankfurt. The number of residents rose to about 6,000 in the early 80s and is not changing a lot since that time.\nDue to strong immigration of citizens from Frankfurt, the confessional (mainly catholic in former times) and the social structure changed: in addition to the long-established village residents, mostly craftsmen and farmers, an academic affected middle-class appeared (employees of Hoechst AG)\n\nIn 1781, church Saint Trinity substituted an older church which was built in 1686. The building contains some extravaganza of this time and provides an impressive view from the lower meadows nearby. The church contains the so-called “Roteltisstein”, a Christian tombstone from the 7th century. It was transferred to Fischbach in 1868 from a demolished pilgrim chapel nearby (Gimbach). The stone proves the early Christianisation in this region.\n\nLike everywhere in the former area of Archbishopric of Mainz, inhabitants of Fischbach were traditionally catholic. The result of the large number of Protestants immigrated after World War II, was a growing demand for a Protestant church. A community was founded in the 60s and is named after John the Baptist. The church has a modern style and has big, coloured windows.\n\nRettershof, northeast of Fischbach, was founded in 1186 as a premonstratensian convent. During the protestant reformation, the landlord closed the convent in 1559 and converted it to a farm. The church of the convent was destroyed during the Thirty Years war. In 1884 an Englishman bought the manor and built a new mansion in Tudor style. His successors built a restaurant in 1938, which offered products from the farm. The city of Kelkheim bought Rettershof in 1980 and renovated it.\nToday, Rettershof consists of three parts: the historically styled yard of the manor, the former mansion and the restaurant. \nFor some years in the 1908s the manor was the European headquarters of International Society for Krishna Consciousness. It is now a luxury hotel.\n\nThough Hofgut Gimbach can only reached by car via Kelkheim, it belongs to Fischbach. The way from Fischbach to Gimbacher Hof is only for pedestrians and bikes. The way leads through land under environmental conservation.\n\nUntil 1868, Gimbach was the location of a pilgrim chapel. After its demolition the altar was transferred to Saint Trinity in Fischbach, but the Gimbach pilgrimage continues to this day.\n\nGimbacher Hof's name comes from the Gimbach, a stream that starts nearby when three tributaries join. The earliest known document of its existence dates to 1287, recorded as the \"Gynnenbach\".\n\nThe manor grounds are used for horse breeding, for growing and pressing Apfelwein, the local cider, and as for camping.\n\nThe bronze fountain in the village center was created in 1987 by Johannes Norbert Klarmann. It depicts a craftsman drinking water from the fountain.\n\nFormer town hall, today community center.\n\nThe town hall of Fischbach was established shortly before the village was incorporated to Kelkheim. Today the building is community center, contains outposts of Kelkheim town authorities and is home for several clubs. The functional architecture is typical for buildings of the 70s. Fire brigade facilities are also located at the town hall square.\n\nAlbert-von Reinach-school is an elementary school. It is located above the town hall square and consists of two buildings. The catchments area is equivalent to Fischbach area. The school is named after Albert von Reinach (* November 7, 1842 in Frankfurt am Main; † January 12, 1905). He was a banker from Frankfurt, who built a villa nearby the village. Albert von Reinach supported the school with noble donations. The older building was erected in 1952/54, the newer one in 1967. The complex replaced the old school building near St. Trinity church, which was placed there at least since 1822 and demolished in 1967. The first school in Fischbach was documented in 1604.\n\nThe Staufenschule was a school for children from Fischbach, Hornau, Ruppertshain and Eppenhain. It was absorbed into the Eichendorff school on 31 July 2006.\n\nAfter a long planning period, a new sports hall opened in 2002. The “Staufenhalle” replaced an old version from 1971. The hall is the largest roofed room in Kelkheim. It has a small stand and is used by schools and sports clubs.\n\nOpen air sports events take place on Fischbach sports field. It is beside woods in the west end of the village. It is mainly used for football matches of the local football club SV Fischbach and was opened on 31 May 1930. In 1952 the area was modified. The ground was rotated by 90 degrees and changing rooms were built. The sports field reopened on 2 August 1953. In 1982 the facilities were renovated and a house for club activities was built. The sports field was equipped with an artificial turf during summer 2008.\n\nFischbach celebrates carnival every year in February or March, with a Carnival Monday parade attracting approximately 25,000 visitors.\n\nKermesse (Kerb) is celebrated each autumn on town hall square. during this time.\n\nThe Protestant church community celebrates Saint John’s day (June 24).\n\nThe Hanseklinger festival in late summer is celebrated in the village center around the homonymous fountain.\n"}
{"id": "2135870", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2135870", "title": "Wu–Yang monopole", "text": "Wu–Yang monopole\n\nThe Wu–Yang monopole was the first solution (found in 1968 by Tai Tsun Wu and Chen Ning Yang) to the Yang–Mills field equations. It describes a magnetic monopole which is pointlike and has a potential which behaves like 1/\"r\" everywhere.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2135871", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2135871", "title": "Luz Marina Zuluaga", "text": "Luz Marina Zuluaga\n\nLuz Marina Zuluaga Zuluaga (; October 31, 1938 – December 2, 2015) was a Colombian beauty queen who won Miss Universe 1958. She was the only Colombian woman to win the Miss Universe pageant until Paulina Vega became Miss Universe 2014.\n\nZuluaga was born in Pereira. She moved to Manizales, (Department of Caldas) as a small child and grew up there. She applied for the Miss Caldas contest, and she won in 1957. Zuluaga went on with her training towards the Miss Colombia contest and arrived in Cartagena, hoping to win the Miss Colombia title. Pereira is part of the Caldas department. Risaralda was made a department in 1966 some years after her election. She represented the following local titles \"Miss Pereira, Miss Caldas, Miss Colombia Virreina (1st Runner up), Miss Colombia — Winner\" and then Miss Universe.\n\nZuluaga did not win the contest, instead finishing as 1st Runner-Up. Before the Miss Universe pageant however, Miss Colombia 1957, Doris Gil Santamaria got married. Due to Miss Universe rules stating that no candidate can be married before the final contest itself, Santamaria was forced to resign, making Zuluaga Miss Colombia by default.\n\nThe contest took place in Long Beach, California, on July 25, 1958. After Zuluaga was announced as the new Miss Universe, the only television station and most radio stations in Colombia at the time (as much as seventy-three) stopped their regular programming to report the breaking news. The evening gown she wore in the pageant was designed and made for her by Colombian designer Aura Leonor Troya de Sánchez, who was a designer to the stars including at least three Miss Colombias.\n\nZuluaga was not immediately able to return to her country, as Miss Universe personnel feared for her security because at the time Colombia was going through a period of extreme political volatility. When she eventually returned home, she was welcomed by large crowds both at El Dorado International Airport in Bogotá and at Manizales airport.\n\nBy now, the citizens of Manizales had accepted her as if she had been a native of the area. Learning that her family was not well off economically, many citizens collected money, which was used to build a better house for Zuluaga and her family.\n\nAfter years outside the spotlight, Zuluaga made headlines again when she married a medical doctor and moved to the United States. In 1966, she returned to Manizales and became involved with the city council as well as with the state's institute of tourism, of which she eventually became director.\n\nZuluaga had three sons and a daughter. She died on December 2, 2015 at the age of 77 at her home in Manizales.\n\n"}
{"id": "2135874", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2135874", "title": "Hackworth", "text": "Hackworth\n\nHackworth is a surname. Notable people with the surname include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2135876", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2135876", "title": "Sophie Grigson", "text": "Sophie Grigson\n\nHester Sophia Frances Grigson (born 19 June 1959) is an English cookery writer and celebrity cook. She has followed the same path and career as her mother, Jane Grigson. Her father was the poet and writer Geoffrey Grigson, and her half-brother was musician and educator Lionel Grigson.\n\nGrigson was born in the village of Broad Town, near Swindon, Wiltshire, in 1959 and attended Oxford High School. From there she went on to study mathematics at UMIST, Manchester. After graduating in 1982 with a Bachelor of Science degree in mathematics (she was Vice-President of the UMIST Alumni Association), she worked for a time as a production manager of pop videos for groups including Bonnie Tyler and the Style Council. Having inherited her mother's love of food, she found she also enjoyed writing about it. Her first food article, published in 1983 in the \"Sunday Express Magazine\", was entitled \"Fifty ways with potatoes\". She has since written columns for publications including the \"Evening Standard\" (1986–93), the \"Sunday Times\" (1994–96) and \"The Independent\" (1997–98).\n\nGrigson's television debut came in 1993 with the 16-part series \"Grow Your Greens, Eat Your Greens\" on Channel 4, which won the Caroline Walker Prize (Media Category). Her more recent television work includes \"Sophie Grigson in the Orient\" and \"Sophie Grigson in the Souk\" for Travel Channel.\n\nShe won the Guild of Food Writers Cookery Journalist of the Year Award in 2001 for her work in \"Country Living\" magazine. She is a keen supporter of organic and local food suppliers and, like Jamie Oliver, is an advocate for decent children's food. She is a patron of the Children's food festival. \n\nSophie's Cookery School, based in Oxford was the first dedicated pop-up cookery school in the country. She currently lives in Puglia in the south of Italy, where she runs a small catering company, Trulli Delicious. \nShe was previously married to William Black, with whom she had two children.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2135880", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2135880", "title": "Katholieke Studentenvereniging Sanctus Virgilius Delft", "text": "Katholieke Studentenvereniging Sanctus Virgilius Delft\n\nKSV (, ) Sanctus Virgilius (also known as Virgiel) is the largest student fraternity/sorority in Delft, named after the Irish born astronomer, geometer and bishop Saint Virgil. There are about 2000 student members (mostly students at TU Delft) who gather together on a daily or weekly basis at an old monastery named Alcuin in the city centre of Delft.\n\nA wide variety of sports and cultural events are organized by members of Virgiel, including football, field hockey, rugby and climbing.\n\nVirgiel was created in 1898 as the result of emancipation of the Catholic youth in the Netherlands. Catholicism had long been repressed by government policy, and Delft Catholic students wanted to unite to discuss their faith and position in society. At the time, most members also belonged to the , the oldest student fraternity/sorority in town.\n\nAfter the Second World War, Virgiel quickly grew. In the 1960s it quickly lost much of its religious objective. Virgiel is now a non-faith-based fraternity/sorority, which is primarily aimed at having a good time while also expanding knowledge and views outside class-hours.\n\n"}
{"id": "2135882", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2135882", "title": "Crișul Alb", "text": "Crișul Alb\n\nThe Crișul Alb (Romanian), (Hungarian: Fehér-Körös) is a river in western Romania in the historical region of Transylvania and south-eastern Hungary (Békés County). Its source is in the southern Apuseni Mountains (Romanian: Munții Apuseni). It flows through the towns Brad, Ineu, Chișineu-Criș in Romania, and Gyula in Hungary. Crossing the border of Hungary, the river, now called Fehér-Körös, joins the Fekete-Körös (\"Crișul Negru\") a few kilometres north from Gyula to form the river Körös (\"Criș\"). In Romania, its length is and its basin size is .\n\nThe following towns and villages are situated along the river Crișul Alb, from source to mouth. \nIn Romania: Brad, Baia de Criș, Hălmagiu, Gurahonț, Dieci, Sebiș, Bocsig, Ineu, Șicula, Chișineu-Criș\n\nIn Hungary: Gyula, Doboz\n\nThe following rivers are tributaries to the river Crișul Alb:\n\n\nThe Canalul Morilor, an irrigation canal, runs parallel to the Crișul Alb through the lowland area between Buteni and Pilu.\n\n"}
{"id": "2135887", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2135887", "title": "Mira, Portugal", "text": "Mira, Portugal\n\nMira () is a municipality in the central Portuguese district of Coimbra. A coastal municipality, known for its beaches, forests, and agriculture, the population was 12,465 inhabitants in an area of approximately .\n\nIn 1442, the regent Peter, Duke of Coimbra, conceded administrative autonomy to the town of Mira.\n\nConcession of its first Foral (\"charter\") occurred almost a century later, during the reign of King D. Manuel I. At that time, on 28 August 1514, the king bestowed to Gonçalo Tavares, the first seigneur of Mira, privileges to develop the region.\n\nIn 1644, by royal concession, King D. John IV of Portugal transfer donatário title to the Casa da Rainha referring to the older concession, bestowed further rights to his successor, Manuel de Sousa Tavares (from the 1758 \"Memórias Paroquiais\").\n\nMira was integrated in to the bishopric and comarca of Coimbra in 1758.\n\nAdministratively, the municipality is divided into 4 civil parishes (\"freguesias\"):\n\nA centre for artisanal fishery, and aquaculture, Mira's economic activities also rely on agriculture, forestry, and tourism.\n\nIn 2007, the Galician fishing company Pescanova, headquartered in Redondela, Spain, announced its intention to build several sea bass aquaculture plants in Mira. Pescanova invested about 350 million Euros in the Portuguese aquaculture plant, which was backed by the Portuguese government with about 45 million Euros in incentives. The plants incorporate wind farms to alleviate the high energy costs, as well as a fish feeding plant. The plants were projected to reach a production rate of between 30,000 and 100,000 tonnes per year.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2135890", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2135890", "title": "Nitrosomonas", "text": "Nitrosomonas\n\n\"Nitrosomonas\" is a genus of Gram-negative rod-shaped chemoautotrophic bacteria.\n\nThis organism oxidizes ammonia into nitrite as a metabolic process, known as nitritation (a step of Nitrification). \"Nitrosomonas\" are useful in bioremediation. They are important in the nitrogen cycle by increasing the availability of nitrogen to plants while limiting carbon dioxide fixation. The genus is found in soil, freshwater, and on building surfaces, especially in areas that contains high levels of nitrogen compounds.\n\n\"Nitrosomonas\" prefers an optimum pH of 6.0-9.0 and a temperature range of 20 to 30 °C. Most species are motile with a flagellum located in the polar regions.\n\nThe organism has power generating membranes, which form long, thin tubes inside the cell. These use electrons from the oxidation of ammonia to produce energy. It obtains the carbon it requires from the atmosphere via carbon fixation, which converts carbon in a gaseous form into carbon bound in organic molecules.\n\nUnlike plants, which fix carbon into sugar through energy gained through the process of photosynthesis, \"Nitrosomonas\" use energy gained through the oxidation of ammonia to fix gaseous carbon dioxide into organic molecules. \"Nitrosomonas\" must consume large amounts of ammonia before cell division can occur, and the process of cell division may take up to several days. This microbe is photophobic, and will generate a biofilm matrix or form clumps with other microbes to avoid light.\n\nThe species \"Nitrosomonas europaea\" has been identified as also being able to degrade a variety of halogenated compounds including trichloroethylene, benzene, and vinyl chloride. Some \"Nitrosomonas\" species possess the enzyme urease, which catalyzes the conversion of the urea molecule to two ammonia molecules and one carbon dioxide molecule. \"Nitrosomonas europaea\", as well as populations of soil-dwelling ammonia-oxidizing bacteria (AOB), have been shown to assimilate the carbon dioxide released by the reaction to make biomass via the Calvin Cycle, and harvest energy by oxidizing ammonia (the other product of urease) to nitrite. This feature may explain enhanced growth of AOB in the presence of urea in acidic environments.\n\nSome sources regard Nitrobacteraceae to be the family of the genus \"Nicosomonas\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2135893", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2135893", "title": "Totalism", "text": "Totalism\n\nTotalism is a style of art music that arose in the 1980s and 1990s as a response to minimalism. It paralleled postminimalism but involved a younger generation of creators, born in the 1950s.\n\nIn the early 1980s, many young composers began writing music within the static confines of minimalism, but using greater rhythmic complexity, often with two or more simultaneous tempos (or implied tempos) audible at once. The style acquired a name around 1990, when it became evident to composers working in New York City that a number of them, including John Luther Adams, Glenn Branca, Rhys Chatham, Kyle Gann, Michael Gordon, Arthur Jarvinen, Bernadette Speach, Ben Neill, Larry Polansky, Mikel Rouse, Evan Ziporyn, were employing similar types of global tempo structures in their music. Others include Eve Beglarian, Allison Cameron, Nick Didkovsky, David First, Phil Kline, and Lois V. Vierk.\n\nThe term \"totalist\" refers to the aims of the music, in trying to have enough surface rhythmic energy, but also to contain enough background complexity. There is also an echo in the term of serialism's \"total organization,\" here drawn not from the 12-tone row, but from Henry Cowell's theories about using the same structuring devices for rhythm that have been traditionally used for pitch. For instance, the traditional ratio between frequencies of a major second interval is 9:8, and 9-against-8 is an important tempo contrast in many totalist pieces, achieved by having some instruments play dotted eighth-notes while others play triplet half-notes. In practice, totalist music can either be consonant, dissonant, or both, but generally restricts itself to a small number of sonorities within any given piece.\n\nExamples of works in the totalist idiom include:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2135895", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2135895", "title": "Yushau Shuaib", "text": "Yushau Shuaib\n\nYushau Abdulhameed Shuaib (born October 10, 1969) is a Nigerian writer. He is an author, public relations practitioner and public affairs commentator on national and international issues, including subjects such as public relations practice, gender equality, national security, youth development, religious tolerance, media arts and crime prevention. He has published over 300 articles in various national dailies in Nigeria.\n\nA graduate of Mass-Communication from Bayero University Kano, he holds a master's degree in Public Relations from the University of Westminster, London. Shuaib has won several awards in public relations practice and writing skills. Yushau Shuaib had worked as a spokesperson for government institutions, including the Federal Ministries of Information, Finance and also Health at various times. He was also Head of Press and Public Relations at the Revenue Mobilisation Allocation and Fiscal Commission (RMAFC) and National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA).\n\nAfter writing a controversial article on Nigeria's Finance Minister, Dr. Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala on lopsided appointments into public offices, Shuaib was forced to retire by the government. He is currently a publisher and public relations consultant to critical institutions in Nigeria.\n\nShuaib is founder and owner of Image Merchants Promotion Limited and , a Nigerian Public Relations company based in Abuja.\n"}
{"id": "2135896", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2135896", "title": "Arcadia Group", "text": "Arcadia Group\n\nArcadia Group Ltd. (formerly Arcadia Group plc and Burton Group plc) is a British multinational retailing company headquartered in London, United Kingdom. It owns the high street clothing retailers Burton, Dorothy Perkins, Evans, Miss Selfridge, Topman, Topshop, Wallis and the out of town chain Outfit, which sells lines from the other group chains. The group has more than 2,500 outlets in the UK, concessions in UK department stores such as Debenhams, Selfridges, as well as several hundred franchises in other countries.\n\nThe company is majority owned by Taveta Investments, itself owned by Tina Green, the wife of Sir Philip Green, who is himself the chairman of the Arcadia Group. Philip Green has been involved in a number of controversies during his career, including the payment of generous dividends to Richard Caring, Tom Hunter, and Philip Green's family prior to the demise of BHS.\n\nIn April 2019, it was reported that the Arcadia group, controlled by Philip Green's family, had recorded a £300m deficit into its pension fund, while the Green family had cashed out £1.2bn in dividends from Arcadia in 2005.\n\nBritish MP Frank Field, who previously investigated the BHS pension deficit, has publicly criticised Philip Green for paying huge dividends to his family and friend Richard Caring \"when things are going well\", and making his employees pay \"when things are not going well\".\n\nThe Arcadia Group has its origins in the firm founded by 18-year-old Lithuanian immigrant Montague Burton in Chesterfield in 1903 as The Cross-Tailoring Company. Burton's initial operation, a men's clothing manufacture, tailoring and retailing operation, became the genesis for the current Burton Menswear chain, which still remains part of the company, albeit having moved away from traditional tailoring to mainstream men's off-peg casuals and formalwear line with shifting trends in fashion and clothing. The eventual holding company survived as Burton Group plc until 1998, when the current name was substituted.\n\nThe firm's headquarters moved from Chesterfield to Leeds in 1910, and The Cross-Tailoring Company had changed its name to Burton by the time the First World War broke out in 1914.\n\nThe company was first listed on the London Stock Exchange in 1929, by which time it had 400 stores, factories and mills. By then, the company had a large factory in Leeds.\n\nAfter World War II, Montague Burton offered men the chance to buy a full suit, which included jacket, trousers, waistcoat, shirt and underwear, which became known as The Full Monty. In 1946, the Company acquired the Peter Robinson women's fashion chain. By 1952, the year Montague Burton died, the Company was the largest multiple tailor in the world. Burton was the official suit supplier of the England national football team for the World Cup in 1966.\n\nIn 1964, the Peter Robinson chain began what became a relaunch as Topshop. This was in response to the development of a new young fashion culture around Britain in the 1960s; Topshop became the company's home of young, modern, on-trend ladieswear, a role it continues to hold. The Topshop launch began with Topshop-branded departments within Peter Robinson stores in 1964, with the first standalone Topshop stores opened ten years later in 1974. Eventually, the Peter Robinson name was dropped altogether. In 1971 the Group acquired Evans, a major operator in the field of fashionable clothing for women wearing larger-sized clothes.\n\nIn the 70s, and as a complement to the suit business, the Group began to develop itself significantly in mainstream clothing retailing by beginning to target chains to precisely defined markets - for example it launched \"Topman\" for young men in 1970. This development capitalised on the success of Topshop in catering for a young, fashion-savvy audience, and reflected the growth in men's casual clothing, with formal-wear sales declining due to the trend for more casual general clothing.\n\nThe firm also expanded its horizons by acquiring businesses outside its fashion heartland, at one point owning Ryman, the stationery chain, but later scaled back to focus principally on clothing.\n\nThe Dorothy Perkins chain was acquired in 1979, enabling the Group to expand into the mainstream womenswear market, following the success of its previous ladieswear ventures (Topshop and Evans). The Dorothy Perkins chain has subsequently been positioned as the group's main ladieswear operation, focused towards a similar target audience as Burton is in menswear.\n\nIn 1984, the Group launched a new chain, Principles, for fashion conscious women with a higher disposable income; this allowed the firm to capitalise on emerging new fashion and business trends of the 1980s, such as power dressing. Principles for Men was launched a year later, in 1985, following the success of the ladies' division.\n\nAlso in 1985, the Group acquired Debenhams, then the largest department store group in the UK. The large store Browns of Chester, which had previously been part of the Burton group, was subsequently moved across to trade as part of the Debenhams chain, and remained part of the Debenhams unit following the unit's divestment (it is today the only Debenhams-owned store not branded under the Debenhams name).\n\nThe firm also purchased menswear firm Colliers, ultimately rolling this into the Burton, Topman and Principles For Men chains.\n\nIn 1993, spurred on by the recession of the early 1990s which had led to declining sales across the clothing retail market, the Burton Group undertook a major review of its trading space portfolio. Under the banner of Townprint, the firm reviewed the location and branding of its stores in each town and city in which they operated. At the time of the review, the Group was operating in the region of 1,600 stores, some of which had been with the group for some years and some of which were no longer performing adequately. The ultimate result was that the Group ended the leases on around 380 of the outlets they were trading from at that point, though replaced over half of these (around 220 stores in all) with the lease of store units which the Group had not previously been trading from. Around 350 stores were transferred from one of the company's brands to another. As part of the Townprint programme, the firm began to roll out new ways of working, such as operating increasing numbers of combined stores, where several brands shared the same unit; these combinations (such as Topshop/Topman or Burton/Dorothy Perkins unit-shares) would continue to be developed through the 1990s and 2000s as a way of reducing overheads whilst maintaining geographical spread of the brands.\n\nIn 1996, the Group made its first move into home shopping with the acquisition of Innovations, a mail order catalogue company, along with the Hawkshead brand in July 1996 and Racing Green in October 1996. Innovations and some related brands were then sold to the home shopping group Great Universal Stores in November 1997.\n\nThe decision to de-merge Debenhams and separate it from the rest of the Group was announced in July 1997: the plan was approved by shareholders in January 1998 and the de-merger took effect later that month. At that time, Debenhams became a separate company with its own listing on the London Stock Exchange. It was at this point that the Group, until then still known as Burton Group plc, became Arcadia Group plc.\n\nThe late 1990s also saw the launch of a new experimental high-fashion menswear chain, SU214 (Style Union 214), which took its name from its flagship store at 214 Oxford Street in London. The chain aimed to capitalise on the growing demand for high-end casualwear and expand upon the group's presence in the young menswear market.\n\nIn June 1998, the Group acquired Wade-Smith, the Liverpool-based retailer of designer childrenswear, menswear and womenswear. The acquisition was primarily to allow Arcadia to expand its presence in the childrenswear market, which they had made little attempt at up to this point. New Wade Smith Jr stores opened in locations such as the Bluewater shopping centre in Kent.\n\nIn June 1999, the Arcadia Group launched Zoom, an e-commerce and Internet Service Provider that forms a key part of the Group's multi-channel approach to retailing. Shortly after Zoom's launch, Associated Newspapers Ltd acquired a 50% stake in Zoom, allowing both partners to benefit from the increased joint marketing opportunities.\n\nIn July 1999, Arcadia Group increased its share of the UK womenswear market with the acquisition of the Sears womenswear businesses, comprising the Warehouse, Wallis, Richards, Miss Selfridge and Outfit brands from the defunct Sears plc. Shortly afterwards, Arcadia chose to close down the underperforming Richards chain, though shops in suitable locations were rebranded under other Arcadia store brands. Arcadia continued to develop the Wallis, Miss Selfridge and Warehouse brands, and expanded significantly the Outfit out-of-town store chain, introducing other Arcadia brands to the stores and expanding the store network.\n\nIn 2000, the firm undertook a strategy known internally as BrandMAX under which underperforming brands were closed or scaled down. In some cases stores which were closed were replaced by other Arcadia properties. As part of BrandMAX, the Wade Smith Jr, Principles For Men and SU214 store brands ceased to trade and were absorbed as concessions into other group businesses (for instance, menswear chain SU214 was absorbed into Topman). Miss Selfridge was also reduced significantly in size (though gained a new London flagship store in the former SU214 flagship site) and all remaining standalone Topman stores were replaced by combined Topshop-Topman stores, a process of integration which had begun some years previously.\n\nIn 2002, Arcadia Group plc was bought by Taveta Investments, owned by Taveta Ltd based in Jersey. Taveta Ltd is owned by Philip Green's family, the only director is Tina Green the wife of billionaire Philip Green accordingly Arcadia Group became a private company and was delisted from the London Stock Exchange.\n\nBy the middle of October 2002, the company had sold some of its chains, including Principles, Warehouse, Racing Green and Hawkshead, to Rubicon Retail for £35m. Those Outfit stores which were already retailing Principles and Warehouse clothing continued to do so by arrangement with the new owners. Arcadia also entered into discussions regarding the sale of the Wade Smith brand back to its previous owners.\n\nIn 2005, Sir Philip Green bought the UK retail stores of Etam and Tammy; these stores were converted into other Arcadia retail outlets, with Tammy clothing subsequently being retailed through BHS and Outfit stores. Some of the stores not retained by Arcadia were taken up by other fashion retail groups, with Monsoon acquiring a large number of the outlets.\n\nIn February 2009, it was announced that the BHS department store chain, also owned by the Greens, would be integrated into Arcadia. As part of the changes, some administrative functions previously run separately were intended to be consolidated to improve efficiency, and some BHS retail stores were to begin to carry Arcadia brands as concessions, enabling Arcadia to expand the presence of its brands without having to lease large numbers of new stores, and allow the firm to cut store costs by moving some operations from stand-alone stores into BHS locations. In The Mall Bexleyheath, the firm was able to introduce Wallis to the retail portfolio without having to lease a separate store unit to do so, and was also able to close the existing Evans store and relocate its operations into BHS. Meanwhile, at Lakeside Shopping Centre in Thurrock, Essex, the existing two-floor BHS was replanned to a reformatted single-level store to allow Topshop/Topman to relocate from their prior site (itself earlier expanded into the neighbouring ex-Etam premises) to take up what was previously the upper level of BHS. (The previous Topshop/Topman space was itself used to introduce Forever 21 to the centre).\n\nIn late 2010 it emerged Arcadia was considering a review of its property portfolio, similar to those undertaken under the Townprint and BrandMAX schemes, to look at the firm's store distribution; this was sparked by the fact that several hundred of the firm's existing store leases expire over the coming three to five years. Analysts estimated that between 150 and 300 stores could be shut and replaced with new locations or integrated/combined stores. After Phillip Green confirmed that the number of stores under lease was to fall, in 2013-14, Arcadia began shutting stores in a number of locations, mostly in small-to-medium-sized towns and cities, including South Shields, Barnsley, Scunthorpe, Dartford, Crawley, Erdington, Birmingham and Market Harborough amongst others. Arcadia cited the rise in online shopping and \"destination\" centres as a reason for moving away from high street locations.\n\nIn March 2015, following continued losses BHS was sold to Retail Acquisitions Ltd.\n\nIn March 2019, after continued losses, it was reported that Sir Philip Green was exploring a company voluntary arrangement (CVA) to restructure the company. The plan is feared to lead to more shop closures and job losses. A month later, two restructuring specialists were added to the Arcadia Group's board to oversee the implementation of the CVA. Amongst the 2020 UK Outbreak of COVID-19, the group cancelled £100m of clothing orders which added to growing concerns of labour rights organisations of the impact on garment manufacturers globally.\n\nThis is a summary list of the Arcadia Group's operations.\n\nArcardia Group brands, including Topshop, are mainly supplied by International Clothing Designs, a company owned by Philip Green's long-time friend Richard Caring, owner of the Annabel's nightclub.\n\n\n\nIn May 2019, Arcadia Group confirmed it planned to close multiple stores across the UK, US and Ireland with the possibility of further closures worldwide.\n\nStores outside the UK, US and Ireland are expected to remain open as they are currently under a franchise agreement, but subject to change. A total of 17 stores have been confirmed for closure in the UK and a further 6 stores in the Republic of Ireland. 11 Topshop and Topman co-branded stores will close across the US with their products being available online through Nordstrom in North America.\n\nWallis, Evans and Dorothy Perkins (Dublin and Cork) stores will exit the Irish market along with the closure of Miss Selfridge stores (in Galway and (Dublin) and flagship stores belonging to Topshop and Topman (Dublin). An official closure date for Irish stores is yet to be confirmed but expected by late summer\n\nMany stores across the UK are also set to close including Topshop's flagship store on London's Oxford Street and up to 5 Topshop stores closing in Swindon among some of the store closures.\n\nThe Green family was heavily criticised for its management of the UK British department store BHS. The Greens bought BHS for £200m in 2000. before selling it in 2015 for £1 to serial bankrupt businessman Dominic Chappell.\n\nBy the time of its sale to Chappell, the company had a pension deficit of £571m. The pension deficit was attributed to Philip Green having paid hundreds of millions of pounds in dividends to his family and to Richard Caring. Richard Caring, a personal friend of Philip Green who secretly owned a stake in BHS in the early 2000s was handed out £93m in dividends.\n\nIn October 2018, The Daily Telegraph reported that \"a leading businessman has been granted an injunction against The Telegraph to prevent this newspaper revealing alleged sexual harassment and racial abuse of staff\". The following day, in the House of Lords, Labour peer Peter Hain exercised parliamentary privilege to name Green as the subject of the allegations. In response to the allegations, many media and members of the public launched a boycott campaign against Topshop.\n\nIn March 2019, newspapers The Sun and The Telegraph published a video of Philip Green kissing one of his former employee and referring to her as \"naughty\", providing further evidence to support claims that Philip Green had been behaving inappropriately to some of his female employees.\n\nPhilip and Tina Green have been at the centre of a number of controversies involving themselves and Richard Caring.\nIn February 2015, a note from HSBC bankers in Richard Caring's files mentioned that Philip Green's wife Tina Green had been holding part of Richard Caring's assets in cash on his behalf, prompting suspicions that Richard Caring might have funnelled profits through Tina Green to avoid paying taxes on his assets.\nIn December 2014, Michelle Young accused Philip Green, Richard Caring and Simon Cowell of helping her ex-husband Scot Young hide his assets so as to avoid paying maintenance to his ex-wife and their two daughters.\n\n"}
{"id": "2135899", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2135899", "title": "Criș", "text": "Criș\n\nCriș may refer to several places:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2135912", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2135912", "title": "Coat of arms of Transnistria", "text": "Coat of arms of Transnistria\n\nThe coat of arms of Transnistria constitutes a remodeled version of the former Moldavian Soviet Socialist Republic emblem, as substituted by the internationally recognized Moldovan government after the dissolution of the Soviet Union in 1991. The only major pictorial change made in the Transnistrian version involves the addition of waves, representing the River Dniester. However, the inscriptions on the banner were changed: unlike the Moldavian SSR emblem, which bore the acronym (for \"Moldavian Soviet Socialist Republic\") and the USSR state slogan \"Workers of the world, unite!\" in the Russian and Moldavian languages, the Transnistrian emblem bears the name \"Pridnestrovian Moldavian Republic\" in the Moldovan, Russian and Ukrainian languages. In Moldavian, it reads \"\" (transliterated: \"\"); in Russian, it reads \"\" (transliterated: \"\"); and, in Ukrainian, it reads \"\" (transliterated: \"\"). Despite the emblem's depiction of the hammer and sickle, Transnistria is not a socialist state.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2135913", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2135913", "title": "Ted Sagar", "text": "Ted Sagar\n\nEdward Sagar (7 February 1910 – 16 October 1986) played football for Everton and England.\n\nHe was known as a fearless goalkeeper of great ability. He was quite light in an era when goalkeepers were barged into more often than today. He joined Everton as an apprentice in 1929 after playing for Thorne Colliery in Yorkshire and made in debut in 1930. He played in the championship winning sides of 1931–32 and 1938–39 and the FA Cup winning side of 1933.\n\nHe made 499 appearances for Everton; this goalkeeping record for the club was only beaten by Neville Southall in 1994.\n\nHe retired from playing in 1952 and ran a pub in Aintree. He died in October 1986, aged 76. He was survived by his wife of 54 years, Dorothy \"Dolly\", who lived until July 2009 and the age of 100. She was living in an Ormskirk nursing home by the time of her death.\n\nSagar played four times for England, as well as once for Northern Ireland Regional League during the war.\n"}
{"id": "2135914", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2135914", "title": "Cestidae", "text": "Cestidae\n\nCestidae is a family of comb jellies. It is the only family in the monotypic order Cestida. Unlike other comb jellies, the body of cestids is greatly flattened, and drawn out into a long ribbon-like shape. The two tentacles are greatly shortened, and two of the four ciliated comb rows are reduced. The unusual body form allows the animals to swim by means of muscular undulation, as well as by using their cilia. The largest species, belonging to the genus \"Cestum\", can reach in length.\n\nThe order Cestida has one family, Cestidae, which contains two genera: \"Cestum\" and \"Velamen\". Each genus contains one species.\n"}
{"id": "2135915", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2135915", "title": "1995 Trans Service Airlift Electra crash", "text": "1995 Trans Service Airlift Electra crash\n\nThe Trans Service Airlift Lockheed L-188 crash occurred on 18 December 1995 when a Lockheed L-188C Electra owned by Trans Service Airlift crashed near Jamba, Angola, killing 141 of the passengers and crew.\n\nTrans Service Airlift (TSA), was a private company headquartered at Ndjili Airport, Kinshasa. The Electra was one of a number of ageing aircraft operated by TSA. Built in 1959 it was sold to TSA in 1992, after service with other operators.\n\nOn the date of the accident, the aircraft was flying a special charter for UNITA. Following the 1993 trade embargo on UNITA there were frequent \"sanction busting\" flights out of Zaire. TSA was one of the companies cited in connection with these operations. These flights rarely carried weapons (which were typically supplied over ground routes); usual cargoes were personnel, fuels, food, and medical supplies. The Angolan Government later claimed the aircraft was carrying weapons.\n\nThe aircraft, with 139 passengers and five crew members, was carrying forty more people than the plane was designed to carry, without taking cargo into account. It crashed two minutes after take-off. Some reports speculate that cargo may have slid to the back of the plane, resulting in a weight imbalance and causing the crash.\n\nInitial reports by Zairean officials stated that the plane crashed near Cahungula, Lunda Norte Province, while transporting diamond miners from Zaire's capital, Kinshasa.\n\nThe co-pilot and two passengers survived the initial crash. The accident was the deadliest plane crash in 1995 until the crash of American Airlines Flight 965 two days later. It remains the deadliest ever plane crash in Angola.\n\n"}
{"id": "2135917", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2135917", "title": "Kevin Ratcliffe", "text": "Kevin Ratcliffe\n\nKevin Ratcliffe (born 12 November 1960) is a Welsh former footballer who spent most of his career playing for Everton. He was born in Mancot, near Queensferry in Flintshire, Wales.\n\nRatcliffe joined Everton as an apprentice in 1977 and made his debut on 12 March 1980 at Old Trafford, Manchester after replacing John Gidman through injury, but was not a first team regular until 1982. He was initially used as a left back with mixed results, but his form improved dramatically when moved to centre back. Around this time Ipswich Town manager Bobby Robson was interested in Ratcliffe, but at the PFA Awards that year Howard Kendall reputedly told Robson to \"fuck off\" showing his confidence in the young Ratcliffe. In 1983 at the age of 23 he was made captain, just as the club began a highly successful spell. Whilst captain Ratcliffe won the 1984 FA Cup Final, the Football League Championship in 1984–85 and 1986–87 and the UEFA Cup Winners' Cup 1984–85. There were also three other FA Cup finals, 1985, 1986 and 1989, and a League Cup Final appearance in 1984. Ratcliffe made 461 appearances for Everton and scored two goals in that time (one a 30-yarder at Anfield).\n\nRatcliffe was renowned for his robust approach to the game and for being a tough tackler. He was sent off early in his career for a head butt in 1981 on Tommy Hutchison against Manchester City in 1981. He was also involved in an infamous incident with Vinnie Jones in 1989 against Wimbledon. In a bad tempered match, Jones had put in a late tackle against striker Graeme Sharp flooring him, and Ratcliffe steamed forward to challenge Jones aggressively. Jones brushed his head forward in what appeared to be a headbutt, with Ratcliffe going down. Jones later claimed in his autobiography that his head barely touched Ratcliffe's and Ratcliffe had feigned contact to get him sent off, and expressed disappointment at the dishonesty of his fellow \"hard man\". This was later confirmed in Graeme Sharp's book, \"Sharpy, My Story\" when he admitted both him and Ratcliffe exaggerated Jones's contact on them both to get him sent off to their pleasure.\n\nRatcliffe has claimed in an interview the hardest (most aggressive) opponents he faced were Graeme Souness, Jimmy Case, Mick Harford and Billy Whitehurst, with Whitehurst supposedly being the hardest of all.\n\nAfter leaving Everton in 1991, he went to Dundee and then played for a short spells with Cardiff City, Nottingham Forest, Derby County and Chester City.\n\nRatcliffe was capped 59 times by Wales, often as captain. He also represented his country at under-21, youth and schoolboy level. Despite several near-misses and boasting famous players such as Ian Rush, Neville Southall and Mark Hughes as well as Ratcliffe, Wales failed to qualify for a major tournament while Ratcliffe was involved in the set-up. He was a roommate of Liverpool rival Ian Rush's during matches.\n\nIn 1994, Ratcliffe joined Chester City as assistant-manager to Mike Pejic and continued to play for a year. In the summer of 1995, he became manager of the Blues and stayed at the helm until August 1999, when he left after falling out with new owner Terry Smith. The highlight of his years at Chester City was guiding the club to the Division Three play-offs in 1996–97 and he later took credit for steering the club to a mid-table position in 1998–99 while in serious financial trouble.\nReputedly Ratcliffe drew £5,000 from his own bank account to help cover the costs of a water bill because the club's cheques were refused.\n\nIn November 1999 Ratcliffe joined Shrewsbury Town as manager and helped them avoid relegation from the Football League on the final day of the 1999–2000 season at Chester City's expense. The highlight of his tenure was a January 2003 FA Cup third round victory over his old club Everton, who were doing well in the Premiership at the time. Everton manager David Moyes was a former \"Shrewsbury\" player. But a disastrous run after this saw Shrewsbury Town relegated to the Football Conference after 53 years in the Football League. Ratcliffe left the club within days, stating that he had to take the blame for Shrewsbury Town's downfall as he had brought in most of their players.\n\nAll competitive league games (league and domestic cup) and international matches (including friendlies) are included.\n\nRatcliffe now works for BBC Wales Sport, as well as After Dinner Speaking\n\n"}
{"id": "2135934", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2135934", "title": "List of largest roadside attractions", "text": "List of largest roadside attractions\n\nThis is a list of verifiable roadside attractions. Items can claim to be the largest, longest, highest, or anything that makes them notable.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nNebraska\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2135938", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2135938", "title": "WSFM", "text": "WSFM\n\nWSFM may refer to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2135947", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2135947", "title": "Feeding frenzy", "text": "Feeding frenzy\n\nIn ecology, a feeding frenzy occurs when predators are overwhelmed by the amount of prey available. For example, a large school of fish can cause nearby sharks, such as the lemon shark, to enter into a feeding frenzy. This can cause the sharks to go wild, biting anything that moves, including each other or anything else within biting range. Another functional explanation for feeding frenzy is competition amongst predators. This term is most often used when referring to sharks or piranhas. It has also been used as a term within journalism.\n\n"}
{"id": "2135954", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2135954", "title": "Anas ibn Malik", "text": "Anas ibn Malik\n\nAnas ibn Malik ibn Nadr al-Khazraji Al-Ansari ( (c.612-c.712) was a well-known \"sahabi\" (companion) of the Prophet of Islam.\n\nAnas ibn Malik, a member of the Najjar clan of the Khazraj tribe of Yathrib, was born ten years before the Prophet Hijrah. After his father, Malik ibn Nadr, died a non-Muslim, his mother, Umm Sulaim, remarried to a new convert, Abu Talha ibn Thabit. Anas's half-brother from this marriage was Abdullah ibn Abi Talha.\n\nWhen the prophet arrived in Medina in 622, Anas's mother presented him to the prophet as a servant.\n\nAfter the prophet's death in 632, Anas participated in the wars of conquest.\n\nHe was the last of the prominent Companions of the Prophet to die. Anas died in 93 AH (712 CE) in Basra at the age of 103 (lunar) years.\n\nHe is one of the major narrators of Hadith, and like all of the \"Sahaba\", is considered trustworthy.\n\nThe mosque and shrine of Anas Ibn Malik is located at Basra, Iraq. The grave of Anas Ibn Malik is a simple cenotaph. However, the shrine was destroyed with explosive devices. Despite the fact that the mosque and shrine is heavily damaged and walls stained with vandalism, the complex is still a popular place of visit by Sunni Muslims.\n\n"}
{"id": "2135958", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2135958", "title": "Malik ibn Nuwayrah", "text": "Malik ibn Nuwayrah\n\nMalik ibn Nuwaira (), also spelled as Malik ibn Nuwera, was a Sahabi and chief of the Bani Yarbu', a large section of the powerful tribe of Bani Tamim which inhabited the north-eastern region of Arabia, between Bahrain and Najd. The tribe was pagan until Islam came to Arabia. The centre of Malik's clan was Butah.\n\nFamous for his generosity and hospitality, Malik is said to have kept a light burning outside his house all night so that any traveller passing that way would know where to find shelter and food. He would get up during the night to check the light. A strikingly handsome man, he had a thick head of hair and his face, a contemporary has said, was \"as fine as the moon.\" He was skilful in the use of weapons and noted for his courage and chivalry, and he was an accomplished poet. Malik possessed all the qualities which the Arabs looked for in the perfect male. He was married to Layla bint al-Minhal who was considered to be one of the most beautiful women in Arabia.\n\nIn view of his distinguished position in the tribe and his unquestionable talents, Muhammad appointed him as an officer over the clan of Bani Handhalah. His main responsibility was the collection of taxes and their despatch to Madinah. Later, when the news of Muhammed's death reached Butah, Malik had just collected a good deal of tax but not yet despatched it to Madinah. He at once opened the coffers and returned the money to the taxpayers. \"O Bani Handhalah!\" he announced, \"your wealth is now our own.\"\n\nMalik was a chief of some distinction; a warrior, noted for his generosity; and a famous poet. Bravery, generosity and poetry were the three qualities most admired among the Arabs.\n\nDuring the Ridda wars, which broke out in Arabia after the death of Muhammad, Abu Bakr sent his most talented general, Khalid bin Waleed, into Najd with 4000 men, to submit the tribes of the surrounding areas. Malik was guilty for his acts against the state of Madinah. After the death of Muhammad, he broke in open revolt against Madinah. At the time of Muhammad, he had been appointed as a tax collector for the Tribe of Banu Tamim. As soon as Malik heard of the appointment of Abu Bakr as caliph, he gave back all the tax to his tribesmen. He gave back all the tax to his tribes people, saying that \"\"Now you are the owner of your wealth\"\".\nWhen Malik heard about Khalid bin Walid's victories against powerful Arab tribes, he ordered his tribesmen not to engage the approaching Khalid in battle, to stay at home, and hope for peace. Malik himself apparently moved away across the desert with his family. Also, so as to prove himself loyal to the state of Madinah (the future Islamic empire), he collected the tax and sent it to Madinah. \nHis riders were stopped by Khalid's army at the town of Battah. Khalid asked them about the signing of a pact with Sajjah but they said it was only to exact revenge on their terrible enemies and that so war does not reach their lands.\nWhen Khalid reached Najd, he found no opposing army, so he sent his cavalry to nearby villages and ordered them to call the Azaan (call for prayers) to each party they meet. Zirrar bin Azwar, a group leader, arrested the family of Malik when they answered the call to prayer.\n\nWhen arrested, Malik was asked by Khalid about his crimes. Malik's response was \"your master said this your master said that\" referring to Abu Bakr. Khalid declared Malik a rebel apostate and ordered his execution and then “married” his wife, Layla bint al-Minhal on the same night. Islamically, Khalid would have had to wait for her to complete the waiting period or iddah of a widow which is four months and ten days before he would have been able to marry her. \n\nAbu Qatada al-Ansari was a companion of Muhammad who accompanied Khalid from Medina. He was so shocked at Malik's murder by Khalid that he immediately returned to Medina telling Abu Bakr that he would not serve under a commander who had killed a Muslim. \nThe death of Malik and Khalid's taking of his wife, Layla, created a controversy. Some officers of his army—including a prominent companion of Muhammad, Abu Qatadah—believed that Khalid killed Malik to take his wife. After the pressure exerted by Umar—Khalid's cousin and one of Caliph Abu Bakr's main advisors—Abu Bakr called Khalid back to Madina to explain himself.\n\nUmar demanded from Abu Bakr the immediate dismissal of Khalid. He said that Khalid had to be put on trial for the twin crimes of murder and adultery. According to Islamic law, Khalid had to be stoned to death. But Abu Bakr defended Khalid, and said that he had simply made \"an error of judgment and how can I punish the one whose sword is praised by Allah\" \n\nThe eminent historian of Islam John Bagot Glubb writes that \"Abu Bakr sent Khalid b. Waleed into Nejd with 4000 men. Many clans of Banu Taghlib hastened to visit Khalid but the Banu Yarbu' branch of the tribe, under its chief, Malik ibn Nuweira, hung back. Malik was a chief of some distinction, a warrior, noted for his generosity and a famous poet. Bravery, generosity and poetry were the three qualities most admired among the Arabs. Unwilling perhaps to demean himself by bowing to Khalid, he ordered his followers to scatter and he himself moved away across the desert alone with his family. Abu Bakr had given orders that the test to be applied to suspected rebels was that they be asked to repeat the Muslim formula and that they answer the call to prayer. Khalid, however, preferred more aggressive methods and sent out parties of horsemen to round up the fugitives and plunder their property. One such party seized Malik ibn Nuweira and his family and brought them in to Khalid, although they claimed to be Muslims. The men of Medina who were with the army protested vigorously against Khalid's ruthlessness, but without avail. The prisoners were placed under guard but, during the night, Malik ibn Nuweira and his supporters were killed in cold blood. Within 24 hours Khalid had married the widow of his victim.\nMalik ibn Nuweira had been executed while professing to be a believer. Indeed Khalid's marriage to the beautiful Layla gave rise to the suspicion that Malik had been killed with the object of making her available to the conqueror.\nThe men of Medina, who had already opposed Khalid's ruthless actions, were outraged by the death of Malik. A certain Abu Qatada, an erstwhile friend and companion of Muhammad, hastened to Medina to complain to Abu Bakr, who summoned Khalid to answer the accusation. Umar b. Khattab pressed the caliph to deprive Khalid of his command. Khalid, returning to Medina, claimed that he had not ordered the execution of Malik, but that his instructions to the guards had been misunderstood. The wise Abu Bakr, whatever he may have thought of the morals of his lieutenant, was aware of his prowess. ‘I will not sheathe a sword which God has drawn for His service,' he exclaimed. Khalid's excuses were accepted.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2135959", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2135959", "title": "Owo", "text": "Owo\n\nOwo is a city in Ondo State of Nigeria. Between 1400 and 1600 AD, it was the capital of a Yoruba city-state. The local government has a population of 222,262, based on 2006 population census.\n\nIn their oral tradition, Owo traces its origins back to the ancient city of Ile-Ife, the cradle of Yoruba culture. Oral tradition also claims that the founders were the sons of the Yoruba deity Odudua, who was the first ruler of Ile-Ife. The early art-historical and archaeological records reinforce these strong affiliations with Ife culture. Owo was able to maintain virtual independence from the neighboring kingdom of Benin, but was on occasion required to give tribute. The transmission of courtly culture flowed in both directions between the Benin and the Owo kingdoms. The skill of Owo's ivory carvers was also appreciated at the court of Benin. During the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries, Benin's rulers increasingly utilized insignia made from ivory, and imported Owo's art objects and recruited its artisans for their own royal workshops.\nThere were other notable artworks that can be evidently supported.\n\nOwo came under British rule in 1893. After Nigeria declared independence in 1960, it was part of the Western Region until 1967 when it became part of the Western State. Owo and its indigenes played significant roles in the politics of the first Republic in Nigeria. In 1976, it became part of the newly created Ondo State.\n\nThe Palace of the Olowo of Owo is the largest Palace in Africa.\n\nOwo has the largest palace (Aghofen) in Africa which was declared a national monument by the federal government. The Olowo Palace had as many as 100 courtyards (Ugha). Each courtyard had a specific function and was dedicated to a particular deity. The largest, said to have been twice the size of an American football field, was used for public assemblies and festivals. Some courtyards were paved with quartz pebbles or broken pottery. Pillars supporting the veranda roofs were carved with statues of the king mounted on a horse or shown with his senior wife. The most recent Olowo was Oba Folagbade Olateru Olagbegi III.\n\nThe present-day city is an agricultural center involved in the growing and trade of yams, cassava, maize, okra, peppers, cocoa, and cotton.\nThere are, however, other meaningful commercial activities in the town, including but not limited to: timber and sawmilling, Soya bean processing plants and blockmaking industries.\nThe town is dotted with branches of some of the foremost banks like, First Bank Plc, Wema Bank Plc, Skye Bank Plc, Enterprise Bank Ltd. (formerly Omega Bank Plc), etc. The city is now witnessing a dramatic change due to expansion of its road network, particularly dualization of the main road beginning from Emure junction up to Iyere exit. A new ultra-modern market is now open in Owo.\n\nOwo is situated in south-western Nigeria, at the southern edge of the Yoruba Hills, and at the intersection of roads from Akure, Kabba, Benin City, and Siluko. Owo is situated halfway between the towns of Ile Ife and Benin City.\n\nThe Owo site was first excavated in 1969–1971 by Ekpo Eyo under the auspices of the Department of Antiquities of the Government of Nigeria. Due to Owo's location between the two famous art centers of Ife and Benin, the site reflects both artistic traditions. Important discoveries include terracotta sculptures dating from the 15th century. The Owo Museum, founded in 1968, houses many of these artifacts.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2135960", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2135960", "title": "Peter Wilson (Australian rules footballer)", "text": "Peter Wilson (Australian rules footballer)\n\nPeter Eric McKenzie Wilson (born 15 November 1963) is a former Australian rules footballer who represented and in the Australian Football League (AFL). He wore the number 9 guersey.\n\nRecruited to Western Australian powerhouse from Lynwood, Wilson is best known for his performance in the 1992 Grand Final, played at the Melbourne Cricket Ground, where he kicked two goals, including a famous \"over-the-head\" kick in the third quarter.\n\nWilson played 117 games for the Eagles and 54 for the Richmond Tigers in the AFL. Prior to this he played in the West Australian Football League for East Fremantle Football Club, representing the club 101 times (including the 1985 Premiership). Wilson was named All-Australian in 1986 where he played for Australia against Ireland three times in Ireland's first tour of Australia.\n\nHe was named in the West Coast Eagles team of the decade in 1996. The number 9 guernsey was later worn by former Eagles captain, Ben Cousins.\n\nAfter he retired as a player, Wilson became coach of Westar Rules club Swan Districts for the 1998 and 1999 seasons. Late in the 1999 season as Swan Districts’ administration was undergoing numerous personnel changes, feeling the black and whites needed a fully professional coach and that he could not do that job, Wilson resigned his coaching position after having led Swans to seventh and sixth in a nine-club competition.\n\n! scope=\"row\" style=\"text-align:center\" | 1987\n! scope=\"row\" style=\"text-align:center\" | 1988\n! scope=\"row\" style=\"text-align:center\" | 1989\n! scope=\"row\" style=\"text-align:center\" | 1990\n! scope=\"row\" style=\"text-align:center\" | 1991\n! scope=\"row\" style=\"text-align:center\" | 1993\n! scope=\"row\" style=\"text-align:center\" | 1995\n! colspan=3| Career\n! 171\n! 123\n! 109\n! 1982\n! 879\n! 2861\n! 632\n! 270\n! 0.7\n! 0.6\n! 11.6\n! 5.1\n! 16.7\n! 3.7\n! 1.6\n! 18\n\n"}
{"id": "2135962", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2135962", "title": "Snapshot (computer storage)", "text": "Snapshot (computer storage)\n\nIn computer systems, a snapshot is the state of a system at a particular point in time. The term was coined as an analogy to that in photography. It can refer to an actual copy of the state of a system or to a capability provided by certain systems.\n\nA full backup of a large data set may take a long time to complete. On multi-tasking or multi-user systems, there may be writes to that data while it is being backed up. This prevents the backup from being atomic and introduces a version skew that may result in data corruption. For example, if a user moves a file into a directory that has already been backed up, then that file would be completely missing on the backup media, since the backup operation had already taken place before the addition of the file. Version skew may also cause corruption with files which change their size or contents underfoot while being read.\n\nOne approach to safely backing up live data is to temporarily disable write access to data during the backup, either by stopping the accessing applications or by using the locking API provided by the operating system to enforce exclusive read access. This is tolerable for low-availability systems (on desktop computers and small workgroup servers, on which regular downtime is acceptable). High-availability 24/7 systems, however, cannot bear service stoppages.\n\nTo avoid downtime, high-availability systems may instead perform the backup on a \"snapshot\"—a read-only copy of the data set frozen at a point in time—and allow applications to continue writing to their data. Most snapshot implementations are efficient and can create snapshots in \"O(1)\". In other words, the time and I/O needed to create the snapshot does not increase with the size of the data set; by contrast, the time and I/O required for a direct backup is proportional to the size of the data set. In some systems once the initial snapshot is taken of a data set, subsequent snapshots copy the changed data only, and use a system of pointers to reference the initial snapshot. This method of pointer-based snapshots consumes less disk capacity than if the data set was repeatedly cloned.\n\nSome Unix systems have snapshot-capable logical volume managers. These implement copy-on-write on entire block devices by copying changed blocksjust before they are to be overwritten within \"parent\" volumesto other storage, thus preserving a self-consistent past image of the block device. Filesystems on such snapshot images can later be mounted as if they were on a read-only media.\n\nSome volume managers also allow creation of \"writable\" snapshots, extending the copy-on-write approach by disassociating any blocks modified within the snapshot from their \"parent\" blocks in the original volume. Such a scheme could be also described as performing additional copy-on-write operations triggered by the writes to snapshots.\n\nOn Linux, Logical Volume Manager (LVM) allows creation of both read-only and read-write snapshots. Writable snapshots were introduced with the LVM version 2 (LVM2).\n\nSome file systems, such as WAFL, fossil for Plan 9 from Bell Labs, and ODS-5, internally track old versions of files and make snapshots available through a special namespace. Others, like UFS2, provide an operating system API for accessing file histories. In NTFS, access to snapshots is provided by the Volume Shadow-copying Service (VSS) in Windows XP and Windows Server 2003 and Shadow Copy in Windows Vista. Melio FS provides snapshots via the same VSS interface for shared storage. Snapshots have also been available in the NSS (Novell Storage Services) file system on NetWare since version 4.11, and more recently on Linux platforms in the Open Enterprise Server product.\n\nEMC's Isilon OneFS clustered storage platform implements a single scalable file system that supports read-only snapshots at the file or directory level. Any file or directory within the file system can be snapshotted and the system will implement a copy-on-write or point-in-time snapshot dynamically based on which method is determined to be optimal for the system.\n\nOn Linux, the Btrfs and OCFS2 file systems support creating snapshots (cloning) of individual files. Additionally, Btrfs also supports the creation of snapshots of subvolumes. On AIX, JFS2 also support snapshots.\n\nSun Microsystems ZFS has a hybrid implementation which tracks read-write snapshots at the block level, but makes branched file sets nameable to user applications as \"clones\".\n\nTime Machine, included in Apple's Mac OS X v10.5 operating system, is not a snapshotting scheme but a system-level incremental backup service: it merely watches mounted volumes for changes and copies changed files periodically to a specially-designated volume using hard links. This is because the HFS Plus file system does not have a snapshotting feature; Apple's new APFS file system introduces such a feature.\n\nAn Phantom OS is based on a snapshot concept, saving all the applications state seamlessly. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "2135963", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2135963", "title": "Snapshot (photography)", "text": "Snapshot (photography)\n\nA snapshot is a photograph that is \"shot\" spontaneously and quickly, most often without artistic or journalistic intent and usually made with a relatively cheap and compact camera.\n\nCommon snapshot subjects include the events of everyday life, often portraying family members, friends, pets, children playing, birthday parties and other celebrations, sunsets, tourist attractions and the like.\n\nSnapshots can be technically \"imperfect\" or amateurish: poorly framed or composed, out of focus, and/or inappropriately lighted by flash. Automated settings in consumer cameras have helped to obtain a technologically balanced quality in snapshots. Use of such settings can reveal the lack of expert choices that would entail more control of the focus point and shallower depth of field to achieve more pleasing images by making the subject stand out against a blurred background.\n\nSnapshot photography can be considered the purest form of photography in providing images with the characteristics that distinguish photography from other visual media — its ubiquity, instantaneity, multiplicity and verisimilitude.\n\nWhen photography was introduced in 1839, exposure times took several minutes. To obtain a reasonably clear image, the camera could not be handheld and the photographer looked through the back of the camera under a black cloth before loading a sensitive plate, while his subjects had to stay totally still. Special head-rests and arm-rests could be used, and even if a subject managed to stay comfortable under these circumstances, they had to try to keep their facial expression in check if they wanted their features to properly show on the picture. This made it impossible to capture any spontaneity. During the following decades all kinds of improvements, new processes and faster light-sensitive emulsions were developed. Rather than removing and replacing a lens cap or other cover or screen, mechanical shutters started to be applied for better control of exposure times. With the development of instantaneous photography, experimental photographers hoped to capture all te details that had remained blurry or vague in previous photographic techniques. A more natural expression in portraiture was considered a priority, while others desired to be able to photograph atmospheric details in landscapes.\n\nIn the 1850s, the earliest examples of \"instantaneous photography\" were made. Much was pioneered not by ambitious fine artists, but by commercial photographers catering to a public that mostly fancied affordable small formats, such as cabinet cards and stereo views. Subjects often reflected popular recreational activities of the time. As spending time at the beach had become a favorite pastime in pioneering countries France and England, seashore views became a very popular topic and the clarity of waves in such pictures illustrated the developing instantaneous techniques very well. Initially, practitioners were satisfied if they could capture something of the shapes of waves. An albumen seaside view at Boulogne-sur-Mer by Edmond Bacot was a very early example, supposedly made in May 1850. The experimental albumen glass negative showed many waves as an undefined white area in a picture with a relatively high contrast. John Dillwyn Llewelyn exhibited several early instantaneous pictures of the seaside, in London in 1854 and at the Exposition Universelle in Paris in 1855. These were well-received by critics, with detailed analysis of how well the waves were pictured. Llewelyn probably was an early adopter of the use of an automatic shutter, but it's uncertain when he would have started this practice.\n\nExposure times for instantaneous photography were generally understood to be one second or less, but the term lacked a set definition and some would even claim their photographs exposed for up to 30 seconds could be called instantaneous.\n\nThomas Skaife discovered that smaller lenses and smaller photographs needed smaller exposure times and developed his small \"Pistolgraph\" camera in 1859. By the end of the year, he claimed that he and his pupils had made some 500 pictures using the hand-held camera with spring-shutters. The tiny \"pistolgrams\" could best be viewed with a magnifying glass, but it was also possible to make enlargements (an uncommon practice at the time), hundreds of times the size of the original, with sufficient sharpness. A broche-sized original \"chromo-crystal\" example depicting three children was praised by the \"Brighton Herald\": \"the laughing, mocking eye of the pet in the centre is, indeed, a photographic triumph, and the characters of the two others are unmistakeably stamped upon their features.\"\n\nIn 1860, John Herschel wrote about \"the possibility of taking a photograph, as it were, by a snap-shot — of securing a picture in a tenth of a second of time\". Herschel believed this was already possible at the time, or otherwise would soon be. He also took for granted that this was just one step away from the realization of stereoscopic motion pictures.\n\nThe snapshot concept was introduced to the public at large by Eastman Kodak, which introduced the Brownie box camera in 1900. Kodak encouraged families to use the Brownie to capture moments in time and to shoot photos without being concerned with producing perfect images. Kodak advertising urged consumers to \"celebrate the moments of your life\" and find a \"Kodak moment\".\n\nInstant cameras, that would develop and fix a picture immediately after shooting it, were developed and successfully marketed by Edwin H. Land's Polaroid Corporation since 1948. Several other companies followed the example. At the time, most other cameras would produce a negative that had to be developed and fixed with chemicals, and then reproduced as enlarged prints in dark rooms or laboratories.\n\nMany professional photographers and filmmakers used the technique as quick test and reference material before engaging in the more time-consuming definitive production of their work, of which results could only be viewed much later. These snapshot polaroids often focused on\n\nInstant cameras also had some success on the consumer market, but never became as widely used by amateurs as the cheaper systems with negative film rolls.\n\nAn early theorist of snapshot aesthetic was the Austrian architectural critic, Joseph August Lux, who in 1908 wrote a book called \"Künstlerische Kodakgeheimnisse\" (Artistic Secrets of the Kodak) in which he championed the use of Kodak cameras like the Brownie. Guided by a position that was influenced by the Catholic critique of modernity, he argued that the ease of use of the camera meant that people could photograph and document their surroundings and thus produce, what he hoped, was a type of stability in the ebb and flow of the modern world.\n\nThe term 'snapshot aesthetic' arose with a trend within fine art photography in the USA from around 1963 . The style typically features apparently banal everyday subject matter and off-centered framing. Subject matter is often presented without apparent link from image-to-image and relying instead on juxtaposition and disjunction between individual photographs.\n\nThe originator of the American trend was Robert Frank, with his book of photographs, \"The Americans\", published in 1958.\n\nThe snapshot tendency was promoted by John Szarkowski, who was head of the photography department at the Museum of Modern Art from 1962 to 1991, and it became especially fashionable from the late 1970s until the mid-1980s. Notable practitioners include Garry Winogrand, Nan Goldin, Wolfgang Tillmans, Martin Parr, William Eggleston, and Terry Richardson. In contrast with photographers like W. Eugene Smith and Gordon Parks, these photographers aimed \"not to reform life, but to know it.\" Frank has said \"I was tired of romanticism, [ . . . ] I wanted to present what I saw, pure and simple.\" Szarkowski brought to prominence the work of Diane Arbus, Lee Friedlander and Garry Winogrand in his influential exhibition “New Documents” at the Museum of Modern Art in 1967, in which he identified a new trend in photography: pictures that seemed to have a casual, snapshot-like look and had subject matter that seemed strikingly ordinary. Winogrand has said \"When I'm photographing, I see life, [ . . . ] That's what I deal with. I don't have pictures in my head… I don't worry about how the picture is going to look. I let that take care of itself… It's not about making a nice picture. That anyone can do.\"\n\nLater photographers such as Daidō Moriyama, Hiromix, Ryan McGinley, Miko Lim, and Arnis Balcus gained international recognition thanks to the snapshot aesthetic. From the early 1990s the style became the predominant mode in fashion photography, especially within youth fashion magazines such as \"The Face\" and photography from this era is often associated with the so-called 'heroin chic' look (a look often seen as having been influenced particularly by Nan Goldin).\n\nThe term arose from the fascination of artists with the 'classic' black-and-white vernacular snapshot, the characteristics of which were: 1) they were made with a hand-held camera on which the viewfinder could not easily 'see' the edges of the frame, unlike modern cheap digital cameras with electronic viewfinder, and so the subject had to be centred; and 2) they were made by ordinary people recording the ceremonies of their lives and the places that they lived and visited.\n\nThe tradition of increasingly automating the \"snapshot camera\" continues with inexpensive point-and-shoot digital cameras and camera phones that fully automate flash, ISO, focus, shutter speed, and many other functions that ensure balanced quality in the results.\n\nCamera phones, usually kept within reach for most of the day, have made taking, sharing and online publishing of snapshots an ubiquitous everyday practice around the world.\n\nCamera phone photography has become an art form in its own right.\n\n"}
{"id": "2135967", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2135967", "title": "Usama ibn Zayd", "text": "Usama ibn Zayd\n\nUsama ibn Zayd () was an early Muslim and companion of the Prophet Muhammad. \n\nHe was the son of Zayd ibn Harithah, Muhammad's freed slave and adopted son, and Umm Ayman (Barakah), a servant of Muhammad.\n\nMuhammad appointed Usama ibn Zayd as the commander of an expeditionary force which was to invade the region of Balqa in the Byzantine Empire to avenge the Muslim defeat at the Battle of Mu'tah, in which Usama's father and Muhammad's adopted son, Zayd ibn Harithah, had been killed. This campaign was known as the Expedition of Usama bin Zayd. \nUsama's campaign was successful and his army was the first Muslim force to successfully invade and raid Byzantine territory, thus paving the way for the subsequent Muslim conquest of the Levant and Muslim conquest of Egypt.\n\nUsama was the son of Barakah (Umm Ayman), an Abyssinian, and her second husband, Zayd ibn Haritha. His parents were married \"after Islam\" and Usama was born in 612.<ref name=\"Landau-Tasseron/Tabari p. 65\">Landau-Tasseron/Tabari p. 65.</ref>\n\nUsama's mother, Umm Ayman served as a slave in the household of Muhammad's parents, Abdullah ibn Abdul-Muttalib and Aminah bint Wahb. She became Muhammad's slave after the death of Aminah. Following Aminah's death in Al-Abwa, Barakah looked after Muhammad, and moved with him to the household of his grandfather Abdul-Muttalib ibn Hashim in Mecca, where she served him during his childhood and afterwards, in his adulthood. When Muhammad married Khadija, he arranged for Barakah's freedom and marriage to a Khazrajite companion named Ubayd ibn Zayd, who was her first husband. Through this marriage, Usama's half brother, Ayman ibn Ubayd was born, and thus she was known as \"Umm Ayman\" (\"Mother of Ayman\").\n\nUsama's father, Zayd ibn Haritha, was a companion and adopted son of Muhammad. He is commonly regarded as the third person to have accepted Islam, after Muhammad's wife Khadija bint Khuwaylid, and Muhammad's cousin Ali ibn Abi Talib. He was an Arab of the Udhra branch of the Kalb tribe of Najd, central Arabia<ref name=\"Landau-Tasseron/Tabari p. 6\">Landau-Tasseron/Tabari p. 6.</ref> Zayd's mother, Suda bint Thaalaba, was from the Maan branch of the Tayy tribe.<ref name=\"Landau-Tasseron/Tabari p. 6\">Landau-Tasseron/Tabari p. 6.</ref> \n\nAs such, Usama was born into a family with strong connections to Muhammad and both his parents were prominent in the early Muslim community. His family migrated to Medina with Muhammad to escape the religious persecution of the Quraysh in Mecca. \n\nUsama had a close relationship with Muhammad and he fought with Muhammad in the Battle of Hunayn. Ibn Kathir writes that according to Ibn Ishaq, Jabir ibn Abd Allah, who witnessed the battle, reported that the Muslim army were panicked by a surprise attack from the enemy and many men fled the battlefield. However, a group of Muhajirun stood firmly and defended Muhammad the battlefield. These men were Abu Bakr, Umar, Ali, Abbas ibn Abd al-Muttalib, Abu Sufyan ibn al-Harith, Fadl ibn Abbas, Rabi'ah ibn al-Harith, Usama ibn Zayd and Ayman ibn Ubayd. Usama's half-brother Ayman ibn Ubayd was killed that day whilst defending Muhammad.\n\nThe Expedition of Usama bin Zayd was a military expedition of the early Muslim Caliphate led by Usama ibn Zayd that took place in June 632, in which Muslim forces raided Byzantine Syria.\n\nAfter the Farewell Pilgrimage, Muhammad appointed Usama ibn Zayd as the commander of an expeditionary force which was to invade the region of Balqa in the Byzantine Empire. Muhammad commanded all the sahaba, except for his family, to go with Usama to Syria to avenge the Muslims’ defeat at the Battle of Mu'tah, in which Usama's father and Muhammad's adopted son, Zayd ibn Harithah, had been killed. Usama's leadership was initially rejected by some because of his young age at the time, however Muhammad dismissed these concerns.\n\nIn reference to this event, the Sahih al-Bukhari states that:\n\nHowever, soon after the expedition was dispatched, news was received of Muhammad's death, forcing the army to return to Medina. The campaign was not reengaged until leadership of the community passed to Abu Bakr, who chose to honour Muhammad's wishes and reaffirmed Usama's command. Usama's campaign was successful and his army was the first Muslim force to successfully invade and raid Byzantine territory, thus paving the way for the subsequent Muslim conquest of the Levant and Muslim conquest of Egypt, both of which took place during Usama's lifetime.\n\n"}
{"id": "2135983", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2135983", "title": "Fairey Delta 2", "text": "Fairey Delta 2\n\nThe Fairey Delta 2 or FD2 (internal designation Type V within Fairey) was a British supersonic research aircraft produced by the Fairey Aviation Company in response to a specification from the Ministry of Supply for a specialised aircraft for conducting investigations into flight and control at transonic and supersonic speeds. Features included a delta wing and a drooped nose. On 6 October 1954, the Delta 2 made its maiden flight, flown by Fairey test pilot Peter Twiss; two aircraft would be produced. The Delta 2 was the final aircraft to be produced by Fairey as an independent manufacturer.\n\nThe Fairey Delta 2 was the first jet aircraft to exceed 1000 mph in level flight. On 10 March 1956, it set a new world speed record of 1,132 mph. The Delta 2 held the absolute World Air Speed Record for over a year. It continued to be used for flight testing, and was allocated to the Royal Aircraft Establishment (RAE) in 1958.\n\nA testbed aircraft was required to verify design calculations and wind tunnel results for the Concorde \"ogee delta\" wing design so one of the aircraft was extensively rebuilt as the BAC 221. On 1 May 1964, the modified aircraft performed its first flight. The FD2 was also used as the basis for Fairey's submissions to the Ministry for advanced all weather interceptor designs, culminating in the proposed Fairey Delta 3 to meet the F.155 specification; however, the FD3 never got past the drawing-board stage.\n\nDuring the late 1940s, Fairey Aviation, a British aircraft manufacturer, had become interested in delta wing technology and proceeded to submit multiple submissions based on the delta wing concept to the Ministry of Supply. The Ministry, being interested in these proposals, issued orders for models to test the envisioned delta wing, the first of which being built in 1947; testing was performed by the Royal Aircraft Establishment (RAE). The program was succeeded multiple times, including an investigation into potential VTOL operations, leading to further flight tests of the delta wing models to be conducted in Cardigan Bay, Wales and Woomera, Australia. In 1947, Air Ministry Specification E.10/47 was issued for a full-scale piloted delta wing aircraft, resulting in the Fairey Delta 1, which conducted its maiden flight at RAF Boscombe Down on 12 March 1951.\n\nMeanwhile, throughout the early and mid 1950s, the Royal Air Force (RAF) had developed an intense desire to advance the performance of their aircraft; in particular, the service sought new fighter aircraft that would be capable of routinely flying at very high speeds and high altitudes as a long-term replacement for its existing inventory of roughly 700 first-generation jet fighters. At the time, there was a perception that Britain was trailing behind in supersonic aircraft design, and there was pressure to correct this. Events such as the Korean War and rapid advances in the fields of supersonic aerodynamics, structures and aero engines by the British aircraft industry had the effect of increasing demand and the potential capabilities of new fighters. In addition to developing improved versions of existing and emerging fighters such as the Hawker Hunter and Gloster Javelin, there was an appetite for even more promising entirely new aircraft.\n\nFollowing on from the Delta 1, the Ministry of Supply requested that Fairey conduct a further model programme for the purpose of transonic investigations. However, Fairey did not find this proposal attractive, believing that a piloted aircraft would be mandatory if the project was to produce any worthwhile data. Fairey commenced work on a highly swept twin-engine aircraft; however, the Ministry lacked enthusiasm for the twin-engine configuration, largely due to an existing rival project underway to produce a twin-engine supersonic aircraft – this would become the English Electric Lightning. In February 1949, it was suggested that Fairey examine the prospects for a single-engine transonic aircraft as an alternative; by the end of the year, the company had produced their new project, out of which the Fairey Delta 2 (FD2) would directly originate. Accordingly, the Ministry issued Air Ministry Specification ER.103 for the project, ordering that a pair of prototype aircraft be produced.\nAt the time, Fairey was mostly known for producing naval aircraft, such as the Fairey Swordfish biplane and the Fairey Firefly monoplane; the design team lacked experience with high speed projects. As a remedy to this, in October 1951, Sir Robert Lickley of Hawker Aircraft was promptly recruited as Fairey's new Chief Engineer and became a major force behind the programme. Data that had been obtained from the earlier model work also proved to have been highly valuable to the Fairy Delta 2 programme. Early development work on the FD2 would be hindered by two major factors, a lack of available information on wing and intake design, and the declaring of Fairey Gannet as a 'super-priority' by the British government, which had necessitated delays.\n\nIn September 1952, technical drawings of the Fairey Delta 2 were issued and the development proper commenced. From the project's beginning, Fairey designed the parameters of the FD2 to intentionally exceed that which was necessary only to achieving Mach 1. In addition to seeking very high performance, the design adopted a general configuration and structure that would be readily adapted to future military requirements, so that it could potentially become a fighter aircraft. In total, a pair of flight-capable aircraft were produced: Serial numbers \"WG774\" and \"WG777\". \"WG777\", the second to be manufactured, was very similar to \"WG774\" apart from the underwing flap system have been eliminated, there were also a few differences in terms of equipment and instrumentation. In addition to the two flying aircraft, a single static test airframe was also completed.\n\nOn 6 October 1954, \"WG774\", the first FD2 to be completed, conducted its maiden flight, flown by Fairey test pilot Peter Twiss. According to aviation author Derek Wood, the Delta 2 \"proved to be an exceptional aeroplane from the outset\". On 17 November 1954, \"WG774\" suffered engine failure on its 14th flight when internal pressure build-up collapsed the fuselage collector tank, closing off the fuel supply to the engine, while heading away from the airfield at 30,000 ft (9,100 m), 30 mi (50 km) after take-off from RAF Boscombe Down. Twiss managed to glide to a dead-stick landing at high speed on the airfield. Only the nose gear had deployed, and the aircraft sustained damage that sidelined it for eight months. Twiss, who was shaken up by the experience but otherwise uninjured, received the Queen's Commendation for Valuable Service in the Air. One result of the crash was a temporary halt on the test programme, which did not resume until August 1955.\n\nDuring early flight tests, repeated supersonic test runs over southern Britain were conducted; as a result of these flights, a number of claims for damages against the supersonic booms were received. Tests of the Delta 2's low-level supersonic flight capability were disrupted due to the perceived heightened risk posed by supersonic booms being produced during lower altitude flight; as such, the Ministry of Supply refused to allow this testing to be performed over the UK. As a result of this refusal, Fairey chose to transport the Delta 2 first to France and later to Norway so that the tests could be performed. The French government required the tests to be insured against damage claims; this demand had proved impractical with a British-based insurance company due to unrealistic prices; however, a French company insured them for £40. No claims were ever received in either France or Norway.\nOn 15 February 1956, \"WG777\", the second Delta 2, performed its maiden flight from RAF Boscombe Down; piloted by Twiss, the aircraft proceeded to reach transonic speeds during this first flight. Following the final contractor check flight on 14 April 1956, \"WG777\" was formally accepted, upon which it was assigned to the RAE's high-speed research programme, conducting measurement, stability and handling research. In September 1956, both aircraft performed flight displays at the Farnborough Airshow in Hampshire. The Delta 2 was typically used to conduct a multitude of tests including aerodynamics characteristics, handling, and stability performance.\n\nTesting of the Delta 2 was carried out in France for some time, in part due to Fairey's good relations with Dassault Aviation of France and the French Air Force. In October and November 1956, a total of 47 low-level supersonic test flights were conducted from Cazaux Air Base, Bordeaux, France; a detachment of Dassault engineers closely observed these trials, learning a great deal about delta wing aircraft from the FD2. Dassault went on to produce the MD.550 Mystère-Delta design, which Wood notes \"bore a striking resemblance\" to the FD2; the MD.550 design would proceed to be manufactured as the successful Dassault Mirage III fighter. Wood credits the Delta 2 as having served to confirm Dassault's theories and supporting the designing and development of the Mirage III.\n\nOnce the manufacturer's testing was completed, both aircraft were formally handed over to the RAE. In addition to providing the institution with useful information on the characteristics of the 60°-swept delta wing, from 1958 onwards, the FD2 aircraft participated in various research projects and flying trials, including an investigation into the performance of ejector-type propulsive nozzles. The substantial rebuilding of the aircraft to participate in further research was first mooted in that same year as well. In its original configuration, the Delta 2 performed flight tests, interspersed with periods of storage, up until mid-1966.\n\nDuring August 1955, the Delta 2 transitioned between subsonic and supersonic flight without any use of reheat. According to Wood, many members of the development team recognised that the FD2 possessed huge speed potential, beyond any other British-built aircraft in existence of that time. During early flight testing, Twiss came to realise that the Delta 2 would be capable of speeds above 1,000 miles per hour and proposed that it be flown on with the aim of breaking the current air speed record, which had then been held since 1955 by a North American F-100 Super Sabre. However, Fairey found the Ministry of Supply unsupportive, having adopted the prevailing belief being that manned military aircraft would soon be replaced by guided missiles. Fairey had great difficulty in obtaining permission for the attempt. Twiss stated that the situation was \"curiously inverted\" from expectations, having expected that government agencies would have been enthusiastically pressing for a record-breaking flight as a means to bolster national prestige.\n\nAccording to Wood, Fairey was confronted by a combination of scepticism and apathy from Her Majesty's Civil Service, to the extent that it appeared that the government were opposing the endeavor. The Ministry of Supply sought to avoid any association with a speed record bid while Rolls-Royce, the FD2's engine manufacturer, also dismissed the attempt, claiming that the air intakes were unsuitable for speeds around Mach 1.5, and that the Avon engine would disintegrate at such speeds, despite an absence of any practical data to support this assertion. In spite of this opposition, Fairey sought to continue, and were given permission to proceed. The Ministry provided no financial support, having opted instead to loan the aircraft itself to Fairey and to charge the firm for its use of RAE assets. Fairey also had to finance its own insurance. Regardless, Fairey chose to continue with the record attempt.\nIn order to reduce the risk of another competitor beating them to it, preparations had to be carried out in a short space of time and in great secrecy. The development and deployment of equipment suitable for the accurate measurement of flight at such speeds was a challenge in itself. For this purpose, a variety of ground measurement cameras were set up at Chichester and at RNAS Ford, various ground markers were installed at specified locations, and radar tracking from RNAS Ford and RAF Sopley; flights by Gloster Meteors and de Havilland Venoms for calibration purposes were also conducted by the RAF. Operational demands on both the pilot and ground crews were severe and many runs were attempted but failed to qualify on one technicality or another. On the final day available, the first run also failed; the second and last run that day became the only chance left before the attempt would end.\n\nOn 10 March 1956, the Fairey Delta 2 broke the World Air Speed Record, raising it to 1,132 mph (1,811 km/h) or Mach 1.73. This achievement exceeded the prior recorded airspeed record by 310 mph, or 37 per cent; never before had the record ever been raised by such a vast margin. The achievement had also made the Fairey Delta 2 the first jet aircraft to exceed 1,000 mph (1,600 km/h) in level flight.\n\nNews of the new airspeed record quickly spread and made an equally prompt impact upon the international aeronautics industry, typical reactions being shock and near-disbelief. According to Wood, consequences included in-depth studies of the FD2 airframe by the United States and the major reshaping of military aircraft programs in France. Fairey itself was elated with the achievement, viewing it as a practical endorsement of their design, and fuelled the firm's ambitions to establish a family of supersonic fighters on its basis. The record stood until 12 December 1957, when it was beaten by a McDonnell JF-101A Voodoo of the United States Air Force.\n\nFairey produced a number of proposals which would have involved the further development of the Delta 2. The first of these was another experimental aircraft, designated as the \"ER.103/B\", which would have paired the wings of the FD2 with a revised fuselage, which had a greater span and length. The ER.103/B was to have been powered by either a de Havilland Gyron or Rolls-Royce RB.122 and would have accommodated underwing fuel tanks for extended endurance. A combat fighter model, the \"ER.103/C\", was also proposed, upon which the wings would have been scaled up by 50 per cent, with no radical aerodynamic alterations made. Combat equipment would have been provisioned, including a Ferranti-built Airborne Interception Radar 1495 and de Havilland Firestreak air-to-air missiles. Fairey claimed that the ER.103/C would be capable of attaining Mach 2.26 at an altitude of 55,000 feet.\nAccording to Fairey's projections, the ER.103/B could have been ready to fly within eighteen months of having received an order, while the ER.103/C could reach the same readiness within 30 months. In particular, Fairey pursued Operational Requirement F.155, which called for a two-seat fighter equipped with radar and missiles with suitable performance to achieve an altitude of 60,000 feet and Mach 2 within six minutes of taking off; while the company thought the firm thought that their design would be able to fully capable of meeting the specified requirements, it was believed that the complete weapon system would not be fully developed until 1962. Thus, Fairey proposed that a simpler interim aircraft, if selected, could be available by 1960 or potentially earlier.\n\nIn addition to the Gyron engine of earlier proposals, the proposed fighter was to be equipped with a pair of de Havilland Spectre rocket engines that were mounted in fairings on the rear fuselage. The high-test peroxide (HTP) fuel for the rocket engines was stored in tanks held in underwing fairings and within the wing's leading edge, separate from the turbojet engine's fuel storage. It featured a two-man crew, a pilot and radar operator/navigation, seated in a side-by-side configuration. The fuselage was area ruled while large rectangular variable air intakes were adopted. As specified, the fighter was tentatively armed with wingtip-mounted de Havilland Red Top air-to-air missiles. Further design revisions saw the single Gyron engine being replaced by a pair of RB.122 engines instead and the adoption of the Red Dean missile, alongside refinements such as intake improvements and increased internal fuel capacity. Fairey stated that the aircraft was suited to interceptor duties at various altitudes, strike and aerial reconnaissance missions were also mooted.\n\nOn 1 April 1957, Fairey were informed by officials within the Ministry of Supply that their proposals were the favourite to meet Operational Requirement F.155. However, on 4 April 1957, Duncan Sandys, the Minister of Defence, announced the effective termination of nearly all fighter aircraft development for the RAF, instantly removing the F.155 requirement.\n\nA final attempt was made to progress a Delta 2 derivative into production came during the late 1950s for the new German Air Force of West Germany. Running against a competing American bid with the Lockheed F-104G Starfighter, Fairey joined forces with Rolls-Royce and Dassault in a collaborative effort to produce a delta wing aircraft capable of reaching Mach 2 to meet the German demand for fighter aircraft. The proposal would have seen Dassault produce the wings, Fairey manufacture the fuselage, and Rolls-Royce provide the engine, which was intended to be a Rolls-Royce Spey engine with reheat; Belgium also played a role in the programme. However, the American lobby proved to be too strong, in part due to the subsequently uncovered Lockheed bribery scandals that had influenced German decision makers, and the F-104G was selected instead. This was the end for the FD2 as a fighter concept; the concept never saw any use as a production aircraft; Wood summarised the state of affairs as \"the harvest was left to France to gather\".\n\nDevelopment of the Concorde harnessed a then-new type of delta wing that was being developed at the RAE known as the ogee or ogival delta design. This design aimed to improve both supersonic performance through limited span, and low-speed performance through the creation of vortices between the wing and fuselage that increased air velocity over the wing and thereby increased lift. In order to make full use of this effect, the wing should be as long as possible, and highly swept at the root. Continued studies of this basic concept led to the ogee layout and it eventually become apparent that a series of full-scale flight tests would be necessary for its validation.\nLow-speed testing of the concept was already being provided by the Handley Page HP.115. Although high-speed performance appeared to be predictable, a dedicated testbed aircraft was desired, especially for drag measurements. As early as 1958, the RAE and Fairey began discussions about converting one of the Delta 2 prototypes to support the ogee wing. Fairey proposed stretching the fuselage a further three feet to better match the long planform, with the wing extending out onto the drooping nose. However, calculations showed that this extension was not great enough to counter the forward moving centre of pressure (CoP) that resulted from the extended planform, and there were also concerns that the over-wing engine intakes would swallow the vortex above the wing.\n\nDuring 1960, further development activity was disrupted by the purchase of Fairey by Westland Aircraft, who assigned further work on the conversion project to Hunting Aircraft. Accordingly, in July 1960, the programme moved to Bristol and was now a part of the larger British Aircraft Corporation (BAC). Bristol suggested two ways forward, a minimal conversion with a sub-optimal wing but no other major changes, or a \"maximal\" conversion with a larger six foot extension to the fuselage and a much taller landing gear more typical of the type expected on the Concorde. Both would also be equipped with a new Elliott Brothers stabilization system, and have the engine intakes moved under the wing. The minimal conversion was considered to be more of a 'compromise', being less slender and lacking the additional fuel capacity that the maximal option provided for.\n\nIn early September 1960, it was agreed that the \"maximal\" conversion would proceed; on 5 September of that year, \"WG774\" was flown to Bristol's Filton facility. Following a period of detailed design work, the re-manufacturing process commenced in April 1961. Considerable cost-cutting measures and management strategies, such as PERT, were adopted by BAC in order to not overrun on the fixed-price contract it had been issued for the work; some engineers were allegedly frustrated by this as apparent means of further improvement were dismissed. On 7 July 1961, the newly christened \"BAC 221\" was completed.\nVarious problems were encountered during the conversion. The newly lengthened landing gear required more hydraulic fluid, which required a larger reservoir to hold it, a higher capacity pump to move it quickly enough through the system, and so on through the hydraulic system. Moving the intakes below the wing meant they were no longer in-line with the compressor face so the ducting to the engine was curved upwards giving a noticeable bulge on the wing upper surface. No attempt was made to fit variable intakes. At high throttle settings, considerable suction into the inlets was generated; in the event of a sudden down-throttle motion by the pilot would result in air \"spilling\" out of the intakes, which was a concern because it could flow above the wing and disrupt the vortex. Small lips were added to the intakes to help prevent this, but this proved to cause intake buzzing. Changes to the ducts, assisted by Rolls-Royce, addressed this issue.\n\nOne major advantage of the new design was its larger fuel capacity, which has been a major problem for the original FD2. The Delta 2 had often run out of fuel while still accelerating, thereby never reaching its full performance. The modifications for the 221 meant it was not capable of the same levels of performance; however, speeds of Mach 1.6 were attained during its test flights. In total, the BAC 221 featured a new wing, engine inlet configuration, a Rolls-Royce Avon RA.28, modified vertical stabilizer and a lengthened undercarriage to mimic Concorde's attitude on the ground. It first flew on 1 May 1964. The sole 221 was used for varied flight testing from 1964 until 1973, after which it was placed on public display.\n\nThe Fairey Delta 2 was a mid-wing tailless delta monoplane. It was powered by a single Rolls-Royce Avon RA.14R turbojet engine with reheat. The engine was fed by air intakes which were blended into the wing roots and featured an eyelid-type nozzle. Located just forward of the nozzle were petal-type air brakes.\n\nThe Delta 2 had a cylindrical cross-section fuselage, which closely fitted the Avon engine, and smoothly flowed into a long tapered nose. A long nose would normally have obscured the pilot's forward vision during landing, take-off and movement on the ground; so, to provide adequate visibility a drooped nose was fitted; the nose section, including the cockpit, could be drooped 10° using a hydraulically-actuated mechanism, in a similar manner to that which was used later on Concorde.\n\nThe Delta 2 had a relatively small cockpit for the pilot which left little room for the installation of additional equipment. The Delta was the first British aircraft to fly using all-powered controls. These controls, designed and produced by Fairey, were fully duplicated. The flight control system was hydraulically operated and possessed no mechanical backup. Fairey had recently developed a new high-pressure hydraulic system and this was used in the design. The hydraulics provided no feedback or \"feel\" to the pilot's controls, so another system providing artificial feel was necessary.\n\nThe wing featured a 60° sweep of the leading edge and was very thin, at only 4% thickness-chord ratio, making the Delta 2's wing one of the thinnest known at that time. The internal space housed both the main undercarriage and a total of four fuel tanks without any bulges or fairings in the wing, while four spars provided for significant structural strength. The sizable horn-balanced ailerons and inboard elevators gave the Delta 2 a high level of manoeuvrability.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2135993", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2135993", "title": "Leshan", "text": "Leshan\n\nLeshan, formerly known as Jiading or Jiazhou, is a prefecture-level city located at the confluence of the Dadu and Min rivers in Sichuan Province, China. Leshan is located on the southwestern fringe of the Sichuan Basin in southern Sichuan, about from Chengdu. As of the 2010 census, its population was 3,235,759, of whom 662,814 lived in the built-up (\"or metro\") area made of Shizhong district, as Wutongqiao and Jinkouhe districts are not conurbated yet.\n\nThe area of present day Leshan was the seat of historical Jiading city, which the historical Jiading city covered not entirely the same area with modern day Leshan city. Some of the area of Leshan county, was ceded to Emeishan city in 1958. In 1978, Leshan as a county-level city was formed. In 1985, the Leshan prefecture-level city was formed, which Emeishan and other county level cities were under the administration of Leshan. Before 1978, Leshan county-level city had Shizhong (means \"city centre\"), Wutongqiao (literally \"5-\"tong\"-bridge\") and Shawan (literally \"sand bay\") three districts. The establishment of Leshan prefecture-level city, also saw the disestablishment of Leshan \"Dìqū\", an administrative area that supervisee Leshan, as well as other county-level cities and counties.\n\nXinchang town, Jiading city, was known for late Qing uprising against the government.\n\nIn 1996, the Mount Emei Scenic Area, including the Leshan Giant Buddha, the largest stone-carved buddha in the world, which was declared a World Heritage Site by UNESCO. Next door to the Leshan Giant Buddha is the Oriental Buddha Park, a privately run cultural theme park, featuring thousands of reproductions of Buddha statues and Buddhist themed carvings.\n\nMount Emei is located within the county-level city of Emeishan, which is under the administrative jurisdiction of Leshan.\n\nThe ancestral home of Chinese writer, academic and politician Guo Moruo is preserved in the Shawan District of Leshan.\n\nThe Leshan dialect, part of the Southern linguistic system, is very different from the dialects of other cities in the province of Sichuan, which belong to the Northern system. Some researchers say the pronunciation of Leshan dialect represents an archaic form of Chinese pronunciation.\n\nFalling into the Sichuan cuisine family, Leshan is noted for its food culture in that it has all the street food from its surrounding areas, which has made it the one-stop street food city. Typical specialties include:\n\nThere are Chengdu–Mianyang–Leshan intercity railway and Chengdu–Guiyang high-speed railway serving Leshan.\n\nThe Chengdu-Leshan Freeway with a total length of 160 kilometers, was finished on January 14, 2000. This Freeway has since become very important to the city's development.\n\nLeshan Normal University () and Leshan Vocational & Technical College () are two government-fund colleges in the city.\n\nLeshan has a monsoon-influenced humid subtropical climate (Köppen \"Cwa\") and is largely mild and humid. Winter is short, mild and dry, with a January average of , and while frost may occur, snow is rare. Summers are long, hot and humid, with highs often exceeding , yet extended heat waves are rare. The daily average in July and August is around . Rainfall is light in winter and can be heavy in summer, and more than 70% of the annual total occurs from June to September.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2135999", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2135999", "title": "Pauline Betz", "text": "Pauline Betz\n\nPauline Betz Addie (née Pauline May Betz, August 6, 1919 – May 31, 2011) was an American professional tennis player.\nShe won five Grand Slam singles titles and was the runner-up on three other occasions. Jack Kramer has called her the second best female tennis player he ever saw, behind Helen Wills Moody.\n\nBetz attended Los Angeles High School and learned her tennis from Dick Skeen. She continued her tennis and education at Rollins College (graduating in 1943), where she was a member of Kappa Alpha Theta sorority. Betz earned an MA in economics from Columbia University.\n\nBetz won the first of her four singles titles at the U.S. Championships in 1942, saving a match point in the semifinals against Margaret Osborne while trailing 3–5 in the final set. The following year, she won the Tri-State tournament in Cincinnati, Ohio, defeating Catherine Wolf in the final 6–0, 6–2 without losing a point in the first set, a \"golden set\". She won the Wimbledon singles title in 1946, the only time she entered the tournament, without losing a set. At the 1946 French Championships, held that year after Wimbledon, she lost the final in three sets to Margaret Osborne after failing to convert two match points.\n\nHer amateur career ended in 1947 when the USLTA revoked her amateur status for exploring the possibilities of turning professional. Betz played two professional tours of matches against Sarah Palfrey Cooke (1947) and Gussie Moran (1951).\n\nAccording to John Olliff of \"The Daily Telegraph\" and \"The Daily Mail\", Addie was ranked World No. 1 in 1946 (no rankings issued from 1940 through 1945). She was included in the year-end top ten rankings issued by the United States Lawn Tennis Association from 1939 through 1946. She was the top ranked U.S. player from 1942 through 1944 and in 1946.\n\nOn September 2, 1946 Betz appeared on the cover of \"TIME\" magazine.\nBetz was inducted into the International Tennis Hall of Fame in 1965. In 1995 she was inducted in the ITA Women's Collegiate Tennis Hall of Fame. The Pauline Betz Addie Tennis Center at Cabin John Regional Park in Potomac, Maryland was renamed in her honor on May 1, 2008. Addie, Albert Ritzenberg, and Stanly Hoffberger founded the center in 1972.\n\nR = tournament restricted to French nationals and held under German occupation.\nSR = the ratio of the number of Grand Slam singles tournaments won to the number of those tournaments played.\n\nIn 1946, the French Championships were held after Wimbledon.\n\nIn 1949 Betz published an autobiography titled \"Wings on my Tennis Shoes\". That same year she married Bob Addie, a sportswriter for the \"Washington Times-Herald\" and \"Washington Post\". The couple had five children, including poet and novelist Kim Addonizio, Rusty, Gary, Jon and Rick. Her granddaughter Aya Cash is an actress. Pauline Betz Addie died in her sleep on May 31, 2011, aged 91.\n\n"}
{"id": "2136003", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2136003", "title": "Emblem of Tajikistan", "text": "Emblem of Tajikistan\n\nThe State Emblem of Tajikistan is a modified version of the original emblem of the Tajik Soviet Socialist Republic that was in use until the dissolution of the Soviet Union in 1991.\n\nPrior to the Russian Revolution, the territory of Turkestan, of which Tajikistan was part, used the device of a black unicorn on a golden shield, blazoned \"or, a unicorn passant sable\". However, Tajikistan itself had no symbol.\n\nUntil 1992, Tajikistan had an emblem similar to all other Soviet Republics.\n\nThe first emblem of independent Tajikistan from 1992–1993 was the Lion and Sun symbol, which was a historic symbol of Persia, to which Tajikistan has cultural ties. It was changed to the current version by the government of Emomali Rahmon, which came to power at the end of 1992. Like other post-Soviet republics whose symbols do not predate the October Revolution, the current emblem retains some components of the Soviet one.\n\nThe crown at the center of the emblem is the same as the Tajik national flag, and refers to the Persian word \"taj\", meaning crown, from which the name of the Tajik people is said to be derived, according to one interpretation. The base of the emblem contains a representation of a book and the Pamir Mountains. The emblem is flanked by cotton on one side and wheat on the other, as well a banner of the national red-white-green colors of Tajikistan is wrapped around the cotton and wheat replacing the red color with the motto of the Soviet Union \"Workers of the world, unite!\" written in the Russian and Tajik languages.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2136006", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2136006", "title": "Lis Harris", "text": "Lis Harris\n\nLis Harris is an American author and critic and was for 25 years a staff writer on The New Yorker magazine which she left in 1995. Her work has appeared in The New York Times, The World Policy Journal, Du and the Wilson Quarterly. She is now a full-time professor of writing at Columbia University.\n\nHarris was born in New York City. She attended Bennington College, where she received her B.A. in 1961.\n\nHarris was a Woodrow Wilson Lila Acheson Wallace Fellowship recipient twice. In 1998, she was awarded grants from the J.M. Kaplan Fund, the Fund for the City of New York, the Gund Foundation, the German Marshall Fund, the Kaplan Fund, the Fund for the City of New York, the Woodrow Wilson Lila Acheson Wallace Foundation, and the Rockefeller Fund.\n\nLis Harris joined the full-time faculty of the Writing Program at Columbia University's School of the Arts in 2003. There, she leads Nonfiction Dialogues, a series of conversations with distinguished writers. She is the forthcoming Chair of the Writing Program.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2136008", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2136008", "title": "Pinkenba, Queensland", "text": "Pinkenba, Queensland\n\nPinkenba is a coastal eastern suburb of the City of Brisbane, Queensland, Australia. In the , Pinkenba had a population of 368 people.\n\nPinkenba is on the northern side of the Brisbane River, from the Brisbane central business district facing Moreton Bay. The area is spatially isolated from other residential suburbs and is surrounded by the Brisbane Airport to the north and west, and industrial land and the bank of the Brisbane River to the south.\n\nThe neighbourhood of Myrtletown is located () in the northern end of the suburb of Pinkenba.\n\nThe former suburb and now neighbourbood of Meeandah is located () in the southern end of the suburb of Pinkenba.\n\nThe name \"Pinkenba\" comes from the Turrbal word \"binkinba\" which means \"place of land tortoise\".\n\nThe former suburb of \"Meeandah\" took its name from the now disused Meeandah railway station on the Pinkenbah railway line, which in turn is named after a corruption of the Greek word \"meander\" and refers to Serpentine Creek which flowed through the area (but has subsequently been converted into a drain due to the development of Brisbane Airport). The name is often thought to be an Aboriginal word.\n\nBoggy Creek State School opened on 22 February 1875. It was renamed Myrtle State School in 1888. In 1900 it was renamed Pinkenba State School. It closed on 31 December 2010. It was located at 248 Eagle Farm Road on the corner of Serpentine Road ().\n\nOn 15 October 1892 there was an auction of crown land near a new meatworks.Pinkenba Wharf was the point of embarkation for many World War I soldiers. The Pinkenba & District War Memorial commemorates those from the district who served and died in the war. The memorial was unveiled on 16 August 1919 by the Queensland Governor, Sir Hamilton Goold-Adams.\n\nQantas selected Pinkenba for its flying boat base in the 1930s. Until the war, Hamilton Reach was too congested, however the base eventually moved upstream providing better access for passengers.Myrtletown State School opened on 1924 and closed on 19 February 1971. It occupied the northern part of the block bounded by Main Beach Road, School Road (now Lewandowski Drive) and Sandmere Street ().\n\nOn 6 March 1963, Queen Elizabeth II unveiled a roadside memorial which commemorates the discovery of commercial quantities of oil in Australia. Although significant oil deposits had been found at Moonie the pipeline to Brisbane was not completed until the following year. The site was selected because it was close to a large oil refinery which was to process the oil.\n\nIn 1975 Myrtletown (then an independent suburb) was downgraded to a neighbourhood within Pinkenba. Myrtletown was historically known as a residential and farming locality, though Myrtletown has become industrial and portside in recent decades.\n\nPinkenba recorded a population of 350 people at the .\n\nAs at March 2020, there are two cruise ship wharves for Brisbane, with differing facilities. Portside Wharf at Hamilton was completed in 2006 and is an international standard facility for cruise liners, offering restaurants, coffee shops, gift shops, and other facilities. However, due to the height restrictions of the Gateway Bridge and length restriction of that far upstream, the larger ocean-going cruise liners must dock further down the river at the more industrial Multi User Terminal at the Port of Brisbane. In late 2020 the new Brisbane International Cruise Terminal will open on the northern bank of the Brisbane River in the suburb of Pinkenba opposite the port (). The new cruise terminal is located at Luggage Point next to the Luggage Point Sewage Treatment Plant (which has been renamed the Luggage Point Resource Recovery Centre). The new terminal will be able to accommodate the largest cruise vessels in the world. It will be operated by the port but will not be part of the suburb of Port of Brisbane.\n\nIn the , Pinkenba recorded a population of 350 people; 42.9% female and 57.1% male. The median age of the Pinkenba population was 42 years, 5 years above the Australian median. Children aged under 15 years made up 15.4% of the population and people aged 65 years and over made up 12.8% of the population. 62.5% of people living in Pinkenba were born in Australia, compared to the national average of 69.8%; the next most common countries of birth were New Zealand 7%, Iran 6.8%, England 2.5%, Italy 1.4%, France 0.8%. 77.3% of people spoke only English at home; the next most popular languages were 2% Italian, 1.7% Cantonese, 1.1% Tagalog, 0.9% Afrikaans, 0.9% Serbo-Croatian/Yugoslavian. The most common religious affiliation was \"No Religion\" 22.8%; the next most common responses were Catholic 19.9%, Anglican 16.5%, Presbyterian and Reformed 5.4% and Uniting Church 4.3%.\n\nThe suburb is accessed by road via Kingsford Smith Drive which passes an industrial area before reaching the suburb. Pinkenba is also the site of the now-abandoned Pinkenba railway station. The station opened in 1882 and closed in 1993. The branch line to Pinkenba was constructed so as to encourage port development downstream away from the Brisbane central business district.\n\nIn Pinkenba, on the day of the 2011 census, 9.1% of employed people traveled to work on public transport and 63.6% by car (either as driver or as passenger).\n\nBP's Bulwer Island Refinery and Shell's Pinkenba Terminal are located in Pinkenba. In 2011, Shells operations at Bulwer Island were expanded with the opening of a new bitumen and marine fuel import facility. Shell facilities include their Queensland state office, a bitumen plant, a lubricants and grease manufacturing facility, several warehouses and fuel storage unit.\n\nPinkenba has a number of heritage-listed sites, including:\n\nPinkenba has a historical trail which was designed on behalf of the Pinkenba Community Association and the Port of Brisbane with help from Brisbane City Council Neighbourhood planning team; more work is still to be done over the next ten years with the beautification of Pinkenba with the start being the local park and historical path and local pub.\n\nNumerous development projects have been proposed for the area, including residential developments and an immigration detention centre, but nothing has progressed. The suburb contains a small number of detached houses (primarily of weatherboard construction), local store, pub and industrial precincts.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2136021", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2136021", "title": "Hugh McAteer", "text": "Hugh McAteer\n\nHugh McAteer (; 13 August 1916 – 24 June 1970) was a volunteer in, and leader of, the Irish Republican Army during their Northern Campaign, and later in 1950 and 1964 unsuccessfully contested for a seat in the British Parliament.\nA bookkeeper by profession, McAteer was from Derry. He served as IRA Chief of Staff from 1941 until 12 October 1942, when he was captured and arrested by the Royal Ulster Constabulary. He was later sentenced to 15 years imprisonment on the charge of treason. On 15 January 1943, along with three senior IRA men Patrick Donnelly, Ned Maguire and Jimmy Steele, he escaped over the wall from Crumlin Road Gaol, Belfast. On Easter Saturday, 24 April 1943, he participated in the Broadway Cinema operation on the Falls Road when armed IRA men took over the cinema, stopped the film, and went on stage and read a statement from the IRA Army Council and the Proclamation of the 1916 Easter Rising. The statement denounced the British military presence in Northern Ireland as an \"invasion of our rights\" and warned that they will be targeted in \"a resumption of hostilities between the Irish Republic and Great Britain\".\n\nMcAteer was subsequently rearrested. Along with other IRA prisoners, he was released in 1950.\n\nIn 1950, McAteer ran as a Sinn Féin candidate for the Londonderry constituency in the British general election on an independent republican abstentionist ticket. He polled 21,880 votes or 37.41%. (Other Republican candidates included Jimmy Steele (for West Belfast) and Liam Burke (for Mid Ulster). The three candidates polled 23,362 votes together but were not elected.) He also contested the 1964 British general election for the same constituency and on the same ticket, polling 21,123 votes (35.91%).\n\nMcAteer was the third son of Hugh McAteer, a labourer, and Bridget Doherty. He was a brother of Eddie McAteer, leader of the Nationalist Party and Stormont MP.\n\nHugh McAteer's son, Aidan, was a personal assistant to Gerry Adams and onetime staff officer of the IRA's Belfast Brigade.\n\nHugh McAteer's grandson, Ronan McGinley, was elected as a Sinn Féin Councillor in 2014. He served as Mid Ulster Council Group Leader.\n\nHis many interests included Irish Traditional singing and he even provided the notes for an album entitled \"Ireland Her Own\" (Topic Records, 1967), recorded by two former IRA volunteers - Paddy Tunney and Arthur Kearney - who had been imprisoned with him in the Crumlin Road Gaol in the 1940s.\n\nMcAleer died suddenly in Belfast on 24 June 1970. He is buried in Miltown Cemetery, Belfast.\n"}
{"id": "2136025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2136025", "title": "William G. Batchelder", "text": "William G. Batchelder\n\nWilliam G. Batchelder III (born December 19, 1942) was the 101st Speaker of the Ohio House of Representatives, serving from 2011 to 2014. He also represented the 69th District of the Ohio House of Representatives from 2007 to 2014, and served in the House from 1969 to 1998 previously. He is a Republican.\n\nBatchelder was born in Medina, Ohio and grew up in the town, graduated from Medina High School. He earned his undergraduate degree in history at Ohio Wesleyan University and his J.D. from the Ohio State University College of Law. In law school he was a member of the moot court team.\n\nHe began his public service career as an aide to and protege of the late Ohio Lt. Governor John W. Brown, who was from his home town of Medina. Batchelder was elected to the Ohio House of Representatives while on active duty with the United States Army. He served in the office of the Judge Advocate General at the headquarters of the Third Army in Fort McPherson, Georgia; he was honorably discharged in 1974.\n\nBatchelder practiced law in Medina, Ohio for 31 years with the law firm of Williams & Batchelder. His practice focused on personal injury defense litigation, corporate law, probate, and estate planning. Batchelder was elected to the Medina County Court of Common Pleas and served briefly on that court before Governor Bob Taft appointed him to the Ninth District Ohio Court of Appeals. Batchelder was elected to the appellate bench in November 2000. He served as presiding judge from January 2000 to December 2001.\n\nHe has also been selected by the Supreme Court of Ohio to serve on the Ohio Board of Bar Examiners. He is the recipient of the Ohio State Bar Public Service Award and an honorary graduate of the University of Akron School of Law. Batchelder is currently a member of the Criminal Justice Advisory Board, Office of Criminal Justice Services, Ohio Court of Appeals Association and the Ohio, Akron, Lorain County, Medina County, and Wayne County Bar Associations. He has also served as an adjunct professor of law at the University of Akron School of Law and at the College of Urban Affairs of Cleveland State University.\n\nBatchelder served in the Ohio House of Representatives for more than 30 years, serving as chairman of the Joint Committee on Ethics and Vice-Chairman of the Criminal Justice Committee, as well as ranking member at various times on the House Judiciary Committee and House Financial Institutions Committee. From 1995 to 1998, Batchelder served as Speaker Pro Tempore of the House and Vice-Chairman of the Reference and Rules Committee.\n\nDuring the Savings and Loan Crisis in the 1980s, Batchelder worked with Democratic Governor Dick Celeste to draft legislation to save depositors' savings at stricken Savings and loan associations, causing Celeste to thank Batchelder during his State of the State speech. During the pay-to-play scandal of the mid 1990s, as chair of the Joint Committee on Ethics, Batchelder referred both the Republican President of the Ohio Senate and the Democratic Ohio Speaker of the House to a prosecutor; both were convicted. He is the only ethics committee chair ever to have referred the heads of both legislative chambers to a prosecutor.\n\nAfter leaving the bench in 2005, Batchelder again was elected to the state House of Representatives in 2006, defeating Jack Schira. He would be reelected in 2008. By 2009, Batchelder was serving as Minority Leader, and when Republicans retook the Ohio House in 2010, he was elected as the 101st Speaker of the Ohio House of Representatives. He would remain as Speaker for the 130th Ohio General Assembly, and was term-limited in 2014.\n\nBatchelder is the husband of Judge Alice Batchelder, currently a federal judge on the United States Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit and father of Waynesburg University Professor of History William Batchelder.\n\n"}
{"id": "2136028", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2136028", "title": "Pinkenba railway station", "text": "Pinkenba railway station\n\nPinkenba railway station was originally the terminus station of the Pinkenba Line, just (6 mi) from the Brisbane central business district; from Central station by rail. It opened in 1882 and closed in 1993.\n\nThe Pinkenba line opened on 3 September 1882, and during World War I (1914 to 1918) and World War II (1939 to 1945), troop camps were located in Pinkenba and Meeandah localities because of deep berthing available to ships at Pinkenba on the mouth of the Brisbane River. Passenger ships of the Orient Steam Navigation Company, later P&O, used the adjacent Pinkenba Wharf, and special trains ran from Brisbane to Pinkenba.\n\nOn 29 August 1906, a contract was let for refreshment rooms to be constructed at Pinkenba station, at a cost of £318. These operated until the new Pinkenba station – still standing today – opened in 1969.\n\nIn 1988 part of the line was electrified, but only as far as Eagle Farm station; diesel-hauled carriages infrequently operated passenger services to Pinkenba. On 27 September 1993, all passenger services on the line were suspended by the Goss Labor Party government as part of a statewide rationalisation of the rail network with the closing or suspending of under-utilised or unprofitable rail lines.\n\nIn the mid-2000s, the Pinkenba railway station area became a rubbish recycling site, with large amounts of dirt dumped over the terminus siding that housed Pinkenba station. The 1969 station building remains, although badly damaged and used as a dumping ground, and the track that connected the station to the Pinkenba Line has been removed. QR still owns the land.\n\nThe station building was later removed to a Grainco site. Then circa 2000 the station building was cut in half and removed pending the redevelopment of the site. The right-hand section went to a private home in Shore Street East, in Cleveland and the left-hand section was transferred by ferry to North Stradbroke Island and serves as the ticket office for Stradbroke Ferries.\n\nThe bus stop for the replacement TransLink bus service (303) is immediately outside Pinkenba station in Eagle Farm Road.\n\n"}
{"id": "2136033", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2136033", "title": "Highgate School", "text": "Highgate School\n\nHighgate School, formally Sir Roger Cholmeley's School at Highgate, is a British co-educational, fee-paying, independent day school, founded in 1565 in Highgate, London, England. It educates over 1,400 pupils in three sections – Highgate Pre-Preparatory School (ages 3–7), Highgate junior school (ages 7–11) and the senior school (11+) – which together comprise the Highgate Foundation. As part of its wider work the charity was from 2010 a founding partner of the London Academy of Excellence and it is now also the principal education sponsor of an associated Academy, the London Academy of Excellence Tottenham, which opened in September 2017. The principal business sponsor is Tottenham Hotspur FC. The charity also funds the Chrysalis Partnership, a scheme supporting 26 state schools in six London boroughs.\n\nThe Foundation is governed in accordance with a Charity Commission Scheme dated 1 September 2005 (and amended in 2014). Its governing body consists of 16 members; 4 are nominated (one each by the Universities of Oxford and London, by the Bishop of London, and by the Lord Chief Justice), and the rest are co-opted. The Visitor is Her Majesty the Queen. The Head is assisted by Principals of the pre-prep and junior schools, by deputy heads and a Bursar, in managing the Foundation. The school is a member of HMC and IAPS and is one of the twelve schools of the Eton Group.\n\nThe school was founded in 1565 by a Royal Charter of Elizabeth I whose letters patent, sealed on 29 January, authorised Sir Roger Cholmeley to establish the ‘’’Free Grammar School of Sir Roger Cholmeley, Knight at Highgate’’’.\n\nCholmeley, a former Chief Justice and local landowner, decided to found a charitable school \"for the good education and instruction of boys and young men\" in Highgate and the local parishes. On 27 April 1565 he was granted by Edmund Grindal, the Bishop of London, some land on the site of the old gatehouse to the Bishop's park and hermit's chapel (opposite the Gatehouse Inn, which still exists). A new chapel and buildings for the school and the local curate, who was expected to be the teacher, were built. The chapel also served as a chapel of ease for Highgate residents.\n\nHowever, by the early nineteenth century a dispute arose because the charity was spending more money, and the curate more time, on the local chapel than on the pupils. A House of Commons commission visited in 1819 and found the Master, the Rev Samuel Mence, was paying a sexton to teach the boys. In a long and bitter action brought in the High Court against the Trustees it was contended that this was contrary to its founding charitable deed. Lord Chancellor Eldon, in his 1827 judgment, agreed, finding \"the charity is for the sustenance and maintenance of a free Grammar school\". The trustees were forced to comply and a separate local church for Highgate, St Michael's, was built in South Grove after a successful local appeal. Mence struggled on at the school until 1838 when there were only 19 pupils.\n\nAn expansion of the school occurred under the next headmaster Rev Dr John Bradley Dyne (Fellow of Wadham College, Oxford) between 1838 and 1874. Under Dyne, by the 1870s the school had largely dropped free provision for local parish boys and alongside the day places boarding was encouraged for boys from the upper and upper middle classes; fees were introduced and academic standards improved.In the period up to this time the school was known commonly as the \"Free Grammar School at Highgate\", the \"Highgate Grammar School\", or the \"Cholmeley School\". Like other public schools, Highgate followed Dr Arnold at Rugby School in introducing the house system. Also like other public schools, Dyne flogged the pupils with a birch rod.\n\nIn the 1860s land was acquired in Bishopswood Road, which provided extensive sports fields and on which several boarding houses and private residences were built. During this period the current chapel and main buildings were erected, designed by Reginald Blomfield (who had also designed Lady Margaret Hall, Oxford). A fragment of the older school building, a gateway with a rusted bell mechanism above between the porter's lodge and the main school building, remained intact until 2006 when the bell was refurbished and the old entrance itself rebuilt in a more modern style. The senior school continues to occupy today the island site in Highgate Village on which it was founded.\n\nUntil recently the school had two blocks of Eton Fives courts, one structure with ten courts (of which six were built in 1899 and a further four added c.1913); a second block of eight courts constructed in the 1920s was removed in 2014.\n\nBoarding and weekly boarding at Highgate declined in the years up to the early 1990s when the last boarders left. In 1993 one of the former houses was converted to create the coeducational pre-preparatory school.\n\nIn 2001 the school announced its intention to become fully co-educational ending over four hundred years of single sex education, and girls joined the Senior and Junior schools from 2004. According to the \"Good Schools Guide\" \"Its decision to go co-ed has helped to put its popularity and academic standards on upward trajectories\".\n\nIn January 2013 the Charter building was opened by former pupil and Governor Lord Hill.\n\nIn May 2014 the Sir Martin Gilbert Library was opened by former Prime Minister Gordon Brown.\n\nThroughout 2015 the school celebrated its 450th anniversary. In January 2015 a museum opened, which can be visited by the public on Saturday mornings in term-time.\n\nIn September 2016 a new building for the junior school opened.\n\nThe school operates a house system like many other public schools and upon reaching Year 9, pupils are placed in a house. These houses are Northgate, Southgate, Westgate, Eastgate, Queensgate, Kingsgate, Midgate, Fargate, Heathgate, The Lodge, School House and Grindal. This system, which Dyne, like other public school headmasters, copied from Arnold's at Rugby School, was established to create \"house spirit\" among the students, allowing for both academic and sporting competitions among the houses. Some of these, like School House, Grindal and The Lodge used to be boarding houses. However, other houses, such as Kingsgate, are newer, having been created by a dissaffected group of Westgateans in the 1970s.\n\nThe title Head has been used since March 2015. \nWith year of joining\n\nFormer pupils of Highgate School are called Cholmeleians or Old Cholmeleians (\"OCs\"), after Sir Roger Cholmeley. The alumni are organised as the Cholmeleian Society, founded as the Old Cholmeleian Club in 1893, although annual dinners had been held since 1859. Both the School and the Society organise social events, and a magazine, \"The Cholmeleian\", is published twice a year. Notable Cholmeleians include:\n\n"}
{"id": "2136049", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2136049", "title": "Explosimeter", "text": "Explosimeter\n\nAn explosimeter is a gas detector which is used to measure the amount of combustible gases present in a sample. When a percentage of the lower explosive limit (LEL) of an atmosphere is exceeded, an alarm signal on the instrument is activated.\n\nThe device, also called a combustible gas detector, operates on the principle of resistance proportional to heat—a wire is heated, and a sample of the gas is introduced to the hot wire. Combustible gases burn in the presence of the hot wire, thus increasing the resistance and disturbing a Wheatstone bridge, which gives the reading.\n\nA flashback arrestor is installed in the device to avoid the explosimeter igniting the sample external to the device.\n\nNote, that the detection readings of an explosimeter are only accurate if the gas being sampled has the same characteristics and response as the calibration gas. Most explosimeters are calibrated to methane or hydrogen.\n\n"}
{"id": "2136051", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2136051", "title": "Alf Padgham", "text": "Alf Padgham\n\nAlfred Harry Padgham (2 July 1906 – 4 March 1966) was one of the leading British professional golfers of the 1930s and 1940s. He won the 1936 Open Championship at Royal Liverpool Golf Club in Hoylake, Merseyside, England and played for Great Britain in the Ryder Cup in 1933, 1935 and 1937. He was captain of the Professional Golfers Association in 1936.\n\nPadgham was born in Caterham, Surrey. His family had close ties to Royal Ashdown Forest Golf Club in Sussex, where he served his apprenticeship under head professional Jack Rowe.\n\nAs a tournament player, he came into prominence in 1931 when he won the News of the World Match Play at Royal Mid-Surrey Golf Club, beating Mark Seymour in the final and receiving £300 in prize money.\n\nOn 20 May 1933, Padgham took part in an exhibition match against Percy Alliss, as the main event at the opening of the reconstructed West course at Sundridge Park Golf Club, in the south east suburbs of London, near Sevenoaks in Kent. Members of the management committee at the Sundridge Park were impressed with Padgham's skill, so he was approached and he agreed to become the club professional, on a five-year contract, working as senior partner with present club pro Jack Randall, working in tandem. Padgham's many successes in tournament golf the years to come, beside his work at the club, were of great delight of the club.\n\nHe will be remembered most for his remarkable sequence of five victories between the autumn of 1935 and the summer of 1936. They included the News of the World Match Play for the second time, beating Percy Alliss in the final, and The Open Championship. He also captured the championships of Ireland, Germany and Holland.\n\nHe built up slowly towards his Open Championship victory in 1936. He was fourth in 1932, seventh the following year, then third behind Henry Cotton at Sandwich and second to Alf Perry at Muirfield in 1935 before the title became his at Royal Liverpool. On the longest course yet used for The Open at 7,708 yards, he came from behind with a last round of 71 to beat Jimmy Adams by a single stroke and Cotton by another stroke. On that final day, he had to break into the locked Hoylake pro shop to retrieve his clubs for an early tee time, but seemed completely unperturbed by the incident. On the final green he holed from 12 feet for a 3 to win.\n\nDespite seeming to be a good match-play competitor, winning the News of the World Match Play twice and once being beaten in the final by Cotton, he failed to win a single point in his three Ryder Cup appearances in 1933, 1935 and 1937.\n\nPadgham was a tall and thin man with a natural smooth swing, a lot similar to that of the great Harry Vardon, but sometimes his putter let him down. Vardon, winner of six Open titles, had one word for Padgham's swing. He thought it \"perfect\". From a short, three-quarter backswing the club seemed to flow effortlessly into the ball and yet he was one of the longest hitters of his day.\n\nPadgham was not a charismatic person, usually dressed in dark clothes, often a raincoat. He was shy and quiet and only showed his sense of humour with close friends.\n\nHe lost what might have been some of his best competitive years due to World War II. During the war, Padgham joined the full-time Special Police and part of the club house and golf course at Sundridge Park was used for military purpose. Nevertheless, in June 1940, Padgham took part in a 72-hole tournament at Sundridge Park, with gate receipts going to the Red Cross. During the 1950s and early 1960s, Padgham took part in many exhibition matches, the money going to good causes. In 1959, he was presented with a gold watch by Sundridge Park, for 25 years of service to the club. Unfortunately the watch did not go over his hand.\n\nWhilst Padgham was absent from the club through sickness in the beginning of the 1960s, his eldest son died, which added to his suffering. He retired from the club in 1965, with failing health, and was succeeded by George Will.\n\nPadgham died on 4 March 1966 at age 59 at his home in West Wickham, Greater London, Kent.\n\n\n\"Note: Padgham only played in The Open Championship\"<br>\n\nNT = No tournament<br>\nCUT = missed the half-way cut<br>\n\"T\" indicates a tie for a place\n\n"}
{"id": "2136053", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2136053", "title": "Lens, Switzerland", "text": "Lens, Switzerland\n\nLens is a municipality in the district of Sierre in the canton of Valais in Switzerland.\n\nLens is first mentioned in 1177 as \"de Lenz\".\n\nLens has an area, , of . Of this area, or 36.4% is used for agricultural purposes, while or 39.4% is forested. Of the rest of the land, or 19.7% is settled (buildings or roads), or 0.7% is either rivers or lakes and or 3.3% is unproductive land.\n\nOf the built up area, housing and buildings made up 11.2% and transportation infrastructure made up 4.0%. while parks, green belts and sports fields made up 3.8%. Out of the forested land, 33.6% of the total land area is heavily forested and 5.8% is covered with orchards or small clusters of trees. Of the agricultural land, 0.4% is used for growing crops and 11.6% is pastures, while 9.1% is used for orchards or vine crops and 15.3% is used for alpine pastures. All the water in the municipality is in lakes.\n\nThe municipality is located in the Sierre district, on the right bank of the Rhone. It consists of the villages of Lens, Chelin, Flanthey, Vaas, Saint-Clément and Valençon as well as a portion of the resort of Crans-Montana.\n\nIt is perched on the saddle of a hill that projects out into the valley. The adjacent hilltop features a bronze statue of Christ, some in height. The statue, and the ornate chapel in its base, can be visited on foot by following a path up through the surrounding woods. The path is marked by a series of shrines depicting the Stations of the Cross. The platform at the top commands views up and down the Rhone valley, from Martigny (to the west), as far as Leuk (to the east).\n\nThe blazon of the municipal coat of arms is \"Azure four Mullets of Five Or between two Keys of the same in Saltire.\"\n\nLens has a population () of . , 28.6% of the population are resident foreign nationals. Over the last 10 years (2000–2010) the population has changed at a rate of 9.8%. It has changed at a rate of 11.9% due to migration and at a rate of 0% due to births and deaths.\n\nMost of the population () speaks French (2,876 or 85.7%) as their first language, German is the second most common (128 or 3.8%) and Italian is the third (110 or 3.3%). There is 1 person who speaks Romansh.\n\n, the population was 48.9% male and 51.1% female. The population was made up of 1,267 Swiss men (33.7% of the population) and 573 (15.2%) non-Swiss men. There were 1,396 Swiss women (37.1%) and 529 (14.1%) non-Swiss women. Of the population in the municipality, 1,481 or about 44.1% were born in Lens and lived there in 2000. There were 624 or 18.6% who were born in the same canton, while 290 or 8.6% were born somewhere else in Switzerland, and 861 or 25.6% were born outside of Switzerland.\n\n, children and teenagers (0–19 years old) make up 21.3% of the population, while adults (20–64 years old) make up 58.6% and seniors (over 64 years old) make up 20.2%.\n\n, there were 1,235 people who were single and never married in the municipality. There were 1,716 married individuals, 248 widows or widowers and 158 individuals who are divorced.\n\n, there were 1,406 private households in the municipality, and an average of 2.3 persons per household. There were 483 households that consist of only one person and 87 households with five or more people. , a total of 1,301 apartments (37.6% of the total) were permanently occupied, while 2,073 apartments (59.9%) were seasonally occupied and 85 apartments (2.5%) were empty. , the construction rate of new housing units was 8.5 new units per 1000 residents. The vacancy rate for the municipality, , was 7.46%.\n\nThe historical population is given in the following chart:\nThe entire village of Lens is designated as part of the Inventory of Swiss Heritage Sites.\n\nIn the 2007 federal election the most popular party was the CVP which received 36.06% of the vote. The next three most popular parties were the FDP (24.32%), the SVP (18.75%) and the SP (12.34%). In the federal election, a total of 1,416 votes were cast, and the voter turnout was 64.2%.\n\nIn the 2009 Conseil d'Etat/Staatsrat election a total of 1,287 votes were cast, of which 104 or about 8.1% were invalid. The voter participation was 59.2%, which is similar to the cantonal average of 54.67%. In the 2007 Swiss Council of States election a total of 1,391 votes were cast, of which 99 or about 7.1% were invalid. The voter participation was 64.1%, which is similar to the cantonal average of 59.88%.\n\n, Lens had an unemployment rate of 3.7%. , there were 181 people employed in the primary economic sector and about 54 businesses involved in this sector. 184 people were employed in the secondary sector and there were 29 businesses in this sector. 974 people were employed in the tertiary sector, with 149 businesses in this sector. There were 1,554 residents of the municipality who were employed in some capacity, of which females made up 42.2% of the workforce.\n\n, there were 401 workers who commuted into the municipality and 952 workers who commuted away. The municipality is a net exporter of workers, with about 2.4 workers leaving the municipality for every one entering. Of the working population, 7.2% used public transportation to get to work, and 68.9% used a private car.\n\nFrom the , 2,674 or 79.7% were Roman Catholic, while 179 or 5.3% belonged to the Swiss Reformed Church. Of the rest of the population, there were 58 members of an Orthodox church (or about 1.73% of the population), there were 2 individuals (or about 0.06% of the population) who belonged to the Christian Catholic Church, and there were 19 individuals (or about 0.57% of the population) who belonged to another Christian church. There were 26 individuals (or about 0.77% of the population) who were Jewish, and 59 (or about 1.76% of the population) who were Islamic. There was 1 person who was Buddhist and 1 individual who belonged to another church. 169 (or about 5.03% of the population) belonged to no church, are agnostic or atheist, and 178 individuals (or about 5.30% of the population) did not answer the question.\n\nIn Lens about 1,024 or (30.5%) of the population have completed non-mandatory upper secondary education, and 480 or (14.3%) have completed additional higher education (either university or a \"Fachhochschule\"). Of the 480 who completed tertiary schooling, 46.3% were Swiss men, 22.7% were Swiss women, 18.5% were non-Swiss men and 12.5% were non-Swiss women.\n\n, there were 31 students in Lens who came from another municipality, while 325 residents attended schools outside the municipality.\n\n"}
{"id": "2136055", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2136055", "title": "Yaji I", "text": "Yaji I\n\nAli Yaji Dan Tsamiya known as Yaji I was a king and later the first Sultan of Kano, a state in what is now Northern Nigeria. Yaji I ruled from 1359 to 1385 CE. A prominent figure in the state's history, using religious revolution, Yaji was finally able to solidify his family's grasp on Kano and its sub-kingdoms after centuries of strife. \n\nSince the arrival of the first king of Kano, Bagauda in 999, there had been tension between the newly established aristocracy and the indigenous pagans of Kano. All subsequent Kano Kings engaged in feuds with the pagan population but were unable to gain mastery over them. Yaji aided by Soninke Wangara scholars from Mali, relinquished the Hausa Animist Cult of Tsumbubura, and proclaimed Kano a Sultanate.\nHe violently crushed a subsequent rebellion by the animist cult at the Battle of Santolo, waging in the processes the first Islamic Jihad in Sudanic Africa. He conquered the \"Kwararafa\" and the numerous Hausa kingdoms around Kano laying the seeds for Kanoan dominance in the \"Bilad as-Sudan\". He died in 1385 having laid the seeds for an eventual Kanoan Empire.\n\nAli Yaji was born to the unfortunate 9th King of Kano, and his consort Maganarku. He is a member of the Bagauda Dynasty who are said to be direct descendants of mythical hausa hero Bayadjidda through Bawo, his son with the last Kabara of Daura, Magajiya Daurama. His bad temper as a child earned him the epithet \"Yaji\" which is a hausa spice mix.\n\nHe became the 11th king of Kano in 1343, succeeding his uncle, who deposed and murdered his father. Yaji immediately engaged in multiple conquests in Zamna Gaba, Rano and Bunu, reigning at Bunu for two years before proceeding to Kur where he decided to remain.\n\nThough there were elements of the islamic religion in kano, It was during Yaji's reign that Islam became the prominent faith in the kingdom. According to the Kano Chronicles, about forty Soninke Wangara scholars from Mali, led by Abdulrahman Zaite fully converted the King to the Islamic faith after which Yaji proclaimed himself a Sultan. The chronicles listed names of some of the other scholars as Yakubu, Mandawali, Famori, Bilkasirn, Kanaji, Dukere, Sheshe, Kebe, Murtuku, Liman Jibjin Yallabu, the father of Sarkin Pawa, Gurdumlius, Auta, Laual, Liman Madata.\n\nYaji made Zaite Alkali (Qadi), Laual Muezzin, and Gurdamus his Liman (Imam). Auta was also charged with ensuring all animals were slaughtered according to Dhabihah. Yaji then commanded his subjects in all the towns of Kano to observe the five daily salahs to which they obliged. He also built a mosque facing the Kaaba underneath the Kano Sacred Tree.\n\nThe Sarkin Gazarzawa was however against these new practices and would desecrate their mosque after every prayer. Because of this, a man called Danbugi was put in charge of a militia to guard the mosque. The pagans however would not relent and tried to entice Danbugi and his men away and were able to succeed in luring some of them. Sheshe and Famori decided that the only way to stop the desecration was through prayer and gathered the Muslims for that purpose. According to the Kano Chronicle, the leader of the pagans was struck blind shortly afterwards and soon after all his acolytes involved in befouling the mosque. Yaji was then said to have taunted the leader of the pagans , \" Be thou Sarki among the blind\".\n\n\"\"Yaji, conqueror of the rocky heights, scatterer of hosts, lord of the town\"\" \n\nYaji, encouraged by his ordeal with the rebellious pagans decided to further spread the religion. For this reason he set his sights on conquering Santolo, the stronghold of the pagans in Kano because he believed every other town will follow him if he was able to succeed. His Wangara counselors advised him that they should pray beside the Moat of Santolo before they wage war. Yaji and his army camped at a place in Santolo called Duji, after which they proceeded to march around Santolo praying until daybreak when a battle ensued. Yaji scored a crucial victory against the pagans in the Battle of Santolo, which would see him hold further successful conquest south of Kano. This culminated in a confrontation with the Kwararafa, where its inhabitants were said to have deserted their land in fear, taking refuge on a hill in Tagara. The Sultan tried to wait them out to force a battle but they instead sent him a hundred slaves to appease him. There are conflicting reports as to whether he died in Kwararafa or after he returned to Kano. He ruled Kano for thirty seven years after which he was succeeded by his brother, .\n\nYaji had a son Kananeji with Aunaka. Kananeji became the 13th ruler of Kano. Yaji shared the same father and mother with Sarki Muhammad Bugaya which was unusual or Kanoan rulers in that era due to excess polygamy.\n\nYaji I is considered to be one of the greatest rulers and warriors in Kano's history. He is remembered as the first Sultan of Kano and for waging the first islamic jihad in region. Yaji's actions were pivotal as they cleared the path for Kano's eventual supremacy among the Hausa states and in Sudanic Africa.\n\n"}
{"id": "2136059", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2136059", "title": "Bavarian Academy of Sciences and Humanities", "text": "Bavarian Academy of Sciences and Humanities\n\nThe Bavarian Academy of Sciences and Humanities (\"Bayerische Akademie der Wissenschaften\") is an independent public institution, located in Alfons-Goppel-Str. 11, Munich, Germany. It appoints scholars whose research has contributed considerably to the increase of knowledge within their subject. The general goal of the academy is the promotion of interdisciplinary encounters and contacts and the cooperation of representatives of different subjects.\n\nOn 12 October 1758 the lawyer Johann Georg von Lori (1723–1787), Privy Counsellor at the College of Coinage and Mining in Munich, founded the \"Bayerische Gelehrte Gesellschaft\" (Learned Society of Bavaria).\nThis led to the foundation by Maximilian III Joseph, Elector of Bavaria, of the Bavarian Academy of Sciences and Humanities on 28 March 1759.\nCount Sigmund von Haimhausen was the first president.\nThe Academy's foundation charter specifically mentions the Parnassus Boicus, an earlier learned society.\n\nOriginally, the Academy consisted of two divisions, the Class for History (\"Historische Klasse\") and the Class for Philosophy (\"Philosophische Klasse\"); natural sciences, including mathematics and physics, were thought of as part of the Class for Philosophy. Today, the Academy is still divided into two classes, but the classes are now the Class for Philosophy and History (which also includes the humanities and social sciences) and the Class for Mathematics and the Natural Sciences.\n\nIn each class, the number of ordinary members is limited to 45, and the number of corresponding members is limited to 80. However, ordinary members at or over the age of 70 are not counted towards this limit; the number of ordinary members is, therefore, usually around 120.\n\nDuring the course of its history, the academy has had numerous famous members including Johann Wolfgang von Goethe, the Grimm brothers, Theodor Mommsen, Anthimos Gazis, Alexander and Wilhelm von Humboldt, Kurt Sethe, Max Planck, Otto Hahn, Albert Einstein, Max Weber, Werner Heisenberg and Adolf Butenandt.\n\nThe first women were admitted as full members of the academy in 1995, and including the geneticist Regine Kafmann and the Indo-European linguist Johanna Narten.\n\nFirst president was the chairman of the Mint and Mining Commission, Sigmund, Count of Haimhausen. Further presidents included Friedrich Heinrich Jacobi, Friedrich Wilhelm von Schelling, Justus von Liebig, Ignaz von Döllinger, Max von Pettenkofer and Walther Meißner.\n\nAt present, the presidency is held by .\n\nFor the pursuit of long-term projects, the Academy forms Commissions. At present, 37 Commissions employ more than 450 persons. \n\n\nCitations\n\nSources\n\n"}
{"id": "2136078", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2136078", "title": "Marston Moreteyne", "text": "Marston Moreteyne\n\nMarston Moreteyne (or Marston Moretaine) is a large English village and civil parish located on the A421 between Bedford and Milton Keynes in the county of Bedfordshire. The population was 4,560 at the 2001 census, and 4,556 at the 2011 census. The village is served by Millbrook railway station, approximately a mile away on the Marston Vale Line. \n\nThe place-name 'Marston Moretaine' is first attested in an Anglo-Saxon charter of 969, where it appears as \"Mercstuninga\". It appears as \"Merestone\" in the Domesday Book of 1086. The name derives from the Old English \"mersc-tūn\" meaning 'town or settlement by a marsh'. It was held by the family of Moretaine, from Mortain in Normandy in France. Local roadsigns use either the \"Moreteyne\" and \"Moretaine\" spellings inconsistently.\n\nSir Thomas Snagge lived in the village in the 16th century. He owned the manor of Marston Moreteyne.\n\nMarston Park was allocated in the Mid-Bedfordshire Local Plan for an extension to the village of Marston Moretaine with a mix of land uses. In 2008, the developers O&H Properties gained outline planning permission for 480 new houses, three hectares of employment land for offices, a new local centre, a primary school, a community building and a sports ground with cricket field. David Lock Associates were then commissioned to produce a Design Code to guide the development, and this was approved by Central Bedfordshire Council in 2010. David Wilson Homes, Barratt Homes and Bovis Homes have begun building the houses and the community building, and have created play areas. The land allocated for employment and a local centre are currently reported to be for sale.\nDating from around 1340, the church of St Mary the Virgin is a 14th-century church with a very rare feature for the East of England, a Grade I listed detached tower to the north of the church located about 70 feet from the north wall of the chancel. Grade I listing denotes that the building is of outstanding or national architectural or historic interest.\n\nThough building began c. 1340 the church was more or less rebuilt in 1445. The interior of the nave is very grand. The screen has paintings.\n\nAccording to legend, the church's detached tower is the work of the Devil, who was trying to steal it. Finding it too heavy, he dropped it where it still remains.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2136092", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2136092", "title": "Millbrook, Bedfordshire", "text": "Millbrook, Bedfordshire\n\nMillbrook is a small village and civil parish near Bedford, England. It has a population of 130, increasing to 147 at the 2011 Census. Millbrook railway station, on the Marston Vale Line, is about from the village. The parish church, dedicated to St Michael and All Angels, is Grade II* listed.\n\nThe vale adjoining Millbrook is reputed to be the location that inspired the 'Slough of Despond' in John Bunyan's \"The Pilgrim's Progress\".\n\nMillbrook is also home to the Millbrook Proving Ground and The Millbrook Golf Club.\n"}
{"id": "2136099", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2136099", "title": "Vince Melouney", "text": "Vince Melouney\n\nVincent Melouney (born 18 August 1945) is an Australian guitarist, vocalist, and songwriter. He joined the bands Billy Thorpe & the Aztecs, Vince & Tony's Two, Bee Gees, Fanny Adams and he formed his own band: the Vince Melouney Sect.\n\nMelouney was born in Sydney on 18 August 1945. He was a founder member of Billy Thorpe & the Aztecs, playing with the band as lead guitarist from 1963 to 1965, which was followed by a short-lived duo with fellow Aztec Tony Barber, called Vince & Tony's Two. In 1966, he released \"I Need Your Lovin' Tonight\" and its B-side, \"Mystery Train\"; Barry Gibb, Robin Gibb, and Maurice Gibb sing backup vocals on both songs.\n\nIn 1967, after moving to the UK, he was invited to join the Bee Gees. He was the lead guitarist on their first four albums; \"Bee Gees' 1st\", \"Horizontal\", \"Idea\" and \"Odessa\". In June 1968, while he was a Bee Gee he wrote and performed \"Such a Shame\" (the only track that was not written by one of the Gibb brothers). The song was released on the UK version of the album \"Idea\", but on the US version, it was replaced by \"I've Gotta Get a Message to You\". Melouney prefers the Gibson ES-355 guitar and can be seen in several Bee Gees videos and live performances from 1967 to 1968. In November 1968, it was reported by the UK music magazine, \"NME\", that Melouney's final concert with the Bee Gees would be on 1 December, following the end of their current German tour.\n\nIn 1969, he formed a short-lived group, Fanny Adams, with Doug Parkinson on lead vocals, Teddy Toi on bass, and Johnny Dick on drums who recorded one eponymous album \"Fanny Adams\". In the summer of 1976, he met up with Bee Gee Barry Gibb and they wrote \"Let It Ride\" and \"Morning Rain\", but both songs were not recorded. He rejoined the Bee Gees for the \"One Night Only\" Concert held in Sydney, Australia, in 1999, and rejoined Billy Thorpe and the Aztecs for a tour in 2002/3. At the completion of that tour, he completed his first solo album, released with the title \"Covers\" which had ten cover versions of songs, including \"Love Her Madly\", \"Come Together\", and \"Lay Down Sally\".\n\nMelouney's influence was the Band, through their album \"Music from Big Pink\", as he explained: \"I am influenced to the extent that I can see what they are doing and I respect that. I’ve let their ideas augment my ideas\".\n\nMelouney tours with \"the Italian Bee Gees\" along with two other former Bee Gees musicians, drummer Dennis Bryon and keyboard player Blue Weaver.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2136142", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2136142", "title": "Luther Head", "text": "Luther Head\n\nLuther Dale Head (born November 26, 1982) is an American professional basketball player.\n\nHead attended Chicago's Manley Academy where he averaged over 20 points, eight assists and seven rebounds per game as a junior. Those numbers earned him All-City honors and he was selected MVP of the Blue Division of the Chicago Public League. Led by Head and head coach Bo Delaney, Manley had a perfect 12–0 record and won the conference championship in the Blue-West Division. Manley finished 26–7 overall, losing to state runner-up Chicago Westinghouse in the Public League quarterfinals. During the season, Head posted 10 triple-doubles. In a game against Chicago Wells, Head broke the city record and recorded the second-highest number of assists in a game with 25, earning Prep Player of the Week honors from the \"Chicago Tribune\". That game also earned him Gatorade Prep Player of the Week honors. During the IHSA State Playoffs, Head scored 26 points and contributed 15 assists against Marshall in a first-round playoff victory. He would then post a triple-double in a second-round win over Steinmetz. During the summer, Head attended the Adidas ABCD Camp in New Jersey.\n\nAs a senior, Head averaged 22 points, eight rebounds, six assists and five steals in the rugged Red-West Division of the Chicago Public League. He would earn First-Team All-State honors in 2001 from the Chicago Tribune, Chicago Sun-Times, Champaign-Urbana News-Gazette, Associated Press and Illinois Basketball Coaches Association. Head was also selected to play in the Wendy's All-Star Classic as a senior. He played primarily point guard in high school but occasionally played shooting guard to complement his abilities. Head also finished sixth in the voting for Mr. Basketball in the state of Illinois following his senior year. However, to many college scouts, Head's senior year was seen as a disappointment as a few of his statistics dropped since junior year. Nevertheless, he would sign his letter of intent to play college basketball for the University of Illinois where he became the first Illinois recruit from the Chicago Public League since 1994.\n\nAs a freshman at the University of Illinois, Head saw limited playing time. Coach Bill Self had a veteran team which included Brian Cook and Frankie Williams, so he had little need to play a freshman. His playing time increased as the season progressed and he started 13 games, including 11 of the last 12. Head averaged 4.5 points in 16.6 minutes per game for the season while shooting 51 percent from the field (63-of-124). His first season showed Head's individual talent for shooting and defense as he was second on the team with 34 steals. He showed his potential to become an eventual offensive force when he scored a season-high 19 points in an NCAA Tournament first-round win over San Diego State, hitting 8-of-11 shots, including three three-pointers. In that same game, he tallied four assists and three steals against the Aztecs. His season-high for assists was six against Kansas in the Regional Semifinal game which proved that he could perform on the national stage against even the best teams in the nation.\n\nA pelvic injury slowed Head during the season and caused him to miss seven games, but he still started eight games and played more than 20 minutes per contest. The arrival of two freshmen point guards, Dee Brown and Deron Williams, prevented Head from becoming a consistent starter and pushed him to the shooting guard and small forward positions. He improved as his injury healed and shot 58.5 percent (24-of-41) from the floor in his last 10 games while hitting 48 percent (12-of-25) of his shots from behind the three-point line in his last 11 games. Head improved to become the fourth leading scorer on the team averaging 7.9 points per game. His shooting also improved as he shot 42.4 percent from three-point range (28-of-66) and 51.9 percent overall (68-of-131). He proved that he could be a capable scorer if given consistent minutes as he scored in double figures nine times, including five times during Big Ten play. He scored a season-high 16 points in the Big Ten Tournament semifinal win over Indiana. In that game, Head hit 5-of-6 shots including two three-pointers against the Hoosiers. Head averaged 9.7 points in Illinois' three Big Ten Tournament victories while hitting a remarkable 69.2 percent of his shots. In those three games he scored 15 points against Purdue, hitting 5-of-9 shots and three 3-pointers, his three 3-pointers at Michigan State, and had 11 points along with a season-high seven rebounds against Ohio State. In a game against Eastern Illinois, Head posted a season-high five assists. Head also hit all five of his shots in a game against Western Illinois, scoring 11 points.\n\nThe junior year was marked by many changes. Head coach Bill Self left Illinois to take the vacant job at Kansas and Southern Illinois head coach Bruce Weber took over as coach of the Illini. Weber made Head a full-time starter which resulted in a significant increase in playing time. Head ranked fourth on the team (24th in the Big Ten) in scoring with 11.0 points per game. He scored at least nine points in 20 of 29 games, including double figures in 14 games. He erupted for a career-high 29 points on 9-of-14 shooting with four 3-pointers in a Big Ten Tournament quarterfinal victory over Indiana. He then scored 19 points and handed out eight assists in Big Ten-clinching win at Purdue. That game saw Head make a dramatic game-winning play when he threw a half-court pass to Roger Powell and followed Powell's blocked shot by putting in a rebound basket with nine-tenths of a second remaining. Head then recorded his first double-double with 16 points and a then career-high 10 rebounds in win at Iowa. Head showed the ability to rebound as he led the Illini in rebounding with eight in win over Northwestern. He led all scorers with 18 points in a win over Michigan hitting five-of-eight 3-pointers. Head again led all scorers with 17 points, making five 3-pointers, in win over Michigan State. In the NCAA Tournament, Head averaged 7.0 assists and 5.5 rebounds in Illinois' two victories. He would finish third on the team in assists on the season (75). To prove how valuable Head was to the team, the Illini were 21–3 with him in the starting line-up.\n\nHead's senior year would be his finest. He was selected as a Consensus Second-Team All-American, Associated Press Second-Team All-American, USBWA Second-Team All-American, NABC Second-Team All-American, College Insider.com All-American, Sports Illustrated.com Honorable Mention All-American, First-Team All-Big Ten selection by both the league coaches and the media, Big Ten All-Tournament Team selection, NCAA Chicago Regional All-Tournament Team honoree, NCAA Final Four All-Tournament Team, Wooden Award finalist, Oscar Robertson (USBWA) Player of the Year finalist, Adolph Rupp Award finalist, Midseason Naismith Award candidate, USBWA All-District, NABC First-Team All-District.\n\nHead started every game of the season, leading the Illini in scoring, averaging 15.9 points (5th in Big Ten). Playing alongside point guards Dee Brown and Deron Williams—both excellent passers—Head scored a total of 622 points on the year, tying the fifth-highest single-season total in school history. He was Illinois' leading scorer in 16 games and scored in double figures in 36 of 39 games, with 12 games of 20+ points. Head led the Big Ten with 116 three-pointers (3.0 per game) and set an Illinois single-season record for three-point field goals in a season (breaking previous record of 96 by Cory Bradford in 2000). His 116 three-pointers rank as the third-highest single-season total in Big Ten history. He made at least three treys in 23 games. He was also second on the Illini, fifth in Big Ten and 33rd in the NCAA with a three-point field goal percentage of 41.0 percent (116–283). Head also shot 46.3 percent from the field on the season (214–462). He led the Illini in free throw percentage (6th in Big Ten) at 78.8 percent (78–99). His defense improved again as he was second on the Illini and fifth in the Big Ten in steals, averaging 1.7 spg. Head was third on the Illini and fifth in the Big Ten in assists, averaging 3.8 apg.\n\nHead finished third on the Illini and fifth in the Big Ten in assist/turnover ratio (2.17), third on the Illini in rebounding, averaging 4.0 rpg. He was awarded Big Ten Co-Player of the Week on January 17, 2005 after wins over Penn State and at Northwestern. In the Las Vegas Holiday Classic Tournament, he led an undefeated Illinois team and earned MVP honors. His season-high for points occurred twice when he scored 26 points at Northwestern and at Wisconsin. He set a career high with six 3-pointers against Oakland and equaled that mark with six threes against Louisville in the Final Four. In a game against Iowa, Head had a career-high six steals, the most by an Illini player on the season. He tied his career high in assists with nine in three different games against Oakland, Gonzaga, and Valparaiso.\n\nThe Illini tied an NCAA Division I record by winning 37 games during the season. The team was ranked number one for most of the season. In the NCAA Tournament, Head set Illinois' school-record for career games played in the tournament (14), career points scored (162), career field goals (59) and career 3-point field goals (32). The team reached the championship game for the first time in school history but lost to North Carolina. Head missed a potential game-tying three-pointer in the final seconds of the game which resulted in Illinois ending the year as the number two ranked team in the nation. He finished his Illinois career ranked 19th on the Illini all-time scoring list with 1,295 career points, fourth on the Illini career three-point field goals list with 209 treys, and ninth on the Illini career steals list with 158 steals. He scored his 1,000th point at Wisconsin on January 25, 2005.\n\nHead finished his course work in the major of sport management in May 2005 and will need only an internship to earn his bachelor's degree.\n\nIn the 2005–06 NBA season, Head played in 80 games, starting 27. He finished the season averaging 8.8 points and 2.7 assists per game. After the season, Head was named to the NBA All-Rookie Second Team.\nIn the 2006–07 NBA season, he averaged 10.8 points, 3.2 rebounds, and 2.4 assists as of April 15, 2007, and proved his worth as a valuable reserve player for the Houston Rockets, especially in light of the absences of Tracy McGrady and Yao Ming due to injuries. He had a streak of hitting at least one three-pointer in 37 straight games that season, and established himself as a reliable clutch shooter, making several game-clinching shots late in games. On April 4, 2007, with McGrady and Yao absent, Head had a career night, scoring 30 in a loss to the Golden State Warriors. Head was 10–13 from the floor, 7–9 from the 3-point line, and 3–3 from the free throw line.\n\nOn February 19, 2009, Head was reunited with his Illini teammate Brian Cook, after he was acquired from the Orlando Magic, but the reunion was short lived, as on February 28 the Rockets waived Head.\n\nOn March 3, Head was signed by the Miami Heat. Shortly after his first stint with Miami, Luther Head suffered a broken hand against the Orlando Magic, thus ending his season.\n\nOn September 17, 2009, Head signed a contract with the Indiana Pacers.\n\nOn September 5, 2010, Head signed a non-guaranteed contract with the Sacramento Kings. Head came off the bench scoring 14 points in his first game as a King on October 27, 2010 helping the Kings beat the Timberwolves 117–116 in their opener. On the 19th of March, 2011, Head was waived by the Kings.\n\nDuring the 2011 NBA lockout, Head signed with the Jiangsu Nangang Dragons in China. However, before arriving in China, he sustained an injury, and Jiangsu gave up on his deal.\n\nOn November 1, 2012, Head joined the Austin Toros of the NBA D-League. On January 22, 2013, the Toros traded him to the Texas Legends. Head was waived by the Legends on February 12, 2013.\n\nIn September 2013, Spanish League squad CB Valladolid announced Head as one of their first four signings for the 2013–14 season.\n\n"}
{"id": "2136143", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2136143", "title": "Salvador Laurel", "text": "Salvador Laurel\n\nSalvador Roman Hidalgo Laurel (November 18, 1928 – January 27, 2004), also known as Doy Laurel, was a Filipino lawyer and politician who served as Vice-President of the Philippines from 1986 to 1992 under President Corazon Aquino and briefly served as Prime Minister from 25 February to 25 March 1986, when the position was abolished. He was a major leader of the United Nationalist Democratic Organization (UNIDO), the political party that helped topple the dictatorship of President Ferdinand Marcos with the 1986 People Power Revolution.\n\nLaurel is the fifth son of President José P. Laurel of the Second Philippine Republic. He was born to a family whose illustrious lineage spans generations of nationalists who distinguished themselves as public servants. His grandfather, Judge Sotero Remoquillo Laurel, was both a delegate to the Malolos Congress in 1899 and Secretary of the Interior in the first Philippine revolutionary government under President Emilio Aguinaldo.\n\nHe first enrolled at Centro Escolar de Señoritas, studying there from 1933 to 1935. Laurel's father wanted Laurel to experience a public school education and so enrolled him first in the Paco Elementary School (1935–36) and then the Justo Lukban Elementary School (1936–37). He finished elementary schooling at Ateneo de Manila Grade School in 1941. In his first year of high school, Laurel received second honors, with a general average of 93.4. Barely three months later, his studies came to an abrupt halt with the outbreak of the war in the Pacific Theater on 8 December 1941. The school was temporarily closed by the Japanese government as run by American Jesuits, which prompted Laurel to enrol at De La Salle College High School, where he graduated in 1946.\n\nLaurel was a member of Upsilon Sigma Phi during his university studies.\n\nTowards the end of the war, the Japanese Supreme War Council issued an order to have officials of the Philippine government flown to Japan. President Laurel volunteered to go alone to spare his Cabinet members the ordeal of being separated from their families. His wife, Paciencia, and seven of his children went with him. Among the officials who accompanied him were Speaker Benigno Aquino, Sr., Minister of Education Camilo Osias and his wife, and General Mateo Capinpin. On 21 March 1945, the group began a long and perilous overland journey to Tuguegarao, where a Japanese navy plane would fly the group to Japan. The odyssey ended in Nara, where they were confined until 10 November 1945.\n\nThe long confinement gave the romantic and impressionable 15-year-old Salvador the luxury of time to write poetry and prose and satisfy his insatiable thirst for books. Whenever he was lucky to find an English book, he would read it voraciously and discuss it with his mentor, Camilo Osias. But his most treasured moments in Nara were those spent with his father, enjoying their daily morning walks in the park when José would discuss his views on life.\n\nOn 12 September 1945, José Laurel was arrested by a group of Americans headed by a Colonel Turner and was taken to Sugamo Prison. The Laurel family was flown to Manila two months later on 10 November 1945.\n\nChristmas 1945 was the bleakest one for the Laurel family; their Peñafrancia home was looted and emptied of its furniture, while the former President was placed in solitary confinement in Sugamo Prison in Japan. Salvador wrote the poem \"To My Beloved Father\" to lift up his father's spirits and sent it to him as a Christmas present.\n\nAt La Salle, he joined a group of young men who planned to go by sea to the Dutch East Indies (Indonesia since 1949) and join Sukarno in the struggle for independence from the Dutch Empire, but local authorities stopped them at the pier. He completed his secondary education at La Salle in March 1946.\n\nAlthough all his older brothers were lawyers, he enrolled at the University of the Philippines as a premedicine student, where he obtained his AA (premdicine) and was admitted to medicine proper, shifting to law two years later. He was admitted to the law school while working to complete his (AA Pre-Law). He received his LLB (Bachelor of Laws), degree in UP in March 1952.\n\nHe was acclaimed the University Champion Orator after he won the first prize in three consecutive inter-university oratorical contests: the 1949 Inter-University Oratorical contest sponsored by the Civil Liberties Union (CLU); the Student Councils Association of the Philippines (SCAP) and the Inter-University Symposium on the Japanese Peace Treaty in 1951.\n\nWithout waiting for the results of the bar examination, he left for Connecticut to study at Yale University, his father's \"alma mater\" where he earned his Master of Laws degree (LL.M.) in 1953. He earned the title Doctor of Juridical Science (J.S.D.) at Yale University in 1960.\n\nOf his studies and scholastic endeavors at Yale University, Myres S. McDougal, a Sterling Professor of Law, Emeritus of the Yale Law School, wrote:\n\nLaurel later married Celia Díaz in 1950, a society debutante. He is the grandfather of Denise Laurel in her entertainment industry.\n\nIn Manila, Laurel joined his brothers in the Laurel Law Offices in Intramuros. During his early years as a barrister, he became deeply involved with legal aid. He was appalled to discover that 94% of the cases filed by indigents in the fiscal's office were dismissed for lack of counsel. This led him to found Citizen's Legal Aid Society of the Philippines (CLASP).\n\nHe campaigned throughout the country, convincing lawyers to join him in his quest for justice for the poor, and by the end of that first year, 750 lawyers had joined CLASP. In 1976, the International Bar Association honored him with the \"Most Outstanding Legal Aid Lawyer of the World\" award in Stockholm.\n\nIn 1960, Laurel edited the papers of the convention that drafted the 1935 Constitution, compressing 24 tomes of documents into seven compact volumes. It was in fulfilment of a promise he had made to his father, who was originally to collaborate in the project but died prematurely of a cerebral haemorrhage, in 1959.\n\nIt was not until 1967 that Laurel seriously entered politics, when he won a Senate seat in the 6th Congress. The youngest Nacionalista senator, Laurel was named the most outstanding senator from 1968 to 1971. When he won in 1967, Laurel had run ran for the Senate to continue his crusade for justice for the poor. He emerged victorious as the youngest Nacionalista elected senator, and a distinguished public service career, spanning nearly 37 years, began.\n\nIn his first year as senator, he was Chairman of the Senate Committee on Justice, Committee on Economic Affairs, Committee on Government Reorganization, and Committee on Community Development. He authored five \"Justice for the Poor Laws\" known as the \"Laurel Laws,\" nine laws on Judicial Reforms (1968–1970); the Government Reorganization Act (1968–1970) and Amendments to the Land Reform Code (1971). He also wrote a book on penal reforms and another on land reform, \"This Land Is Mine.\" He was consistently voted \"Most Outstanding Senator of the Year\" in 1968, 1969, 1970, and 1971.\n\nIn 1972, Laurel was the first Philippine government official to visit the People's Republic of China, then under Chairman Mao Zedong. He was met by Premier Zhou Enlai, Vice Premier (later President) Li Xinnian, and other high officials of the Chinese government. Upon his return, he submitted an extensive report to the Senate on his China visit. He strongly advocated for the resumption of friendly ties with the PRC and the adoption of the One-China Policy, which eventually became the official stand of the Philippines.\n\nFor a month following the People Power Revolution in late February 1986, Laurel became the only person in Philippine history to hold the posts of Vice-President, Prime Minister, and Foreign Minister concurrently. The office of Prime Minister was abolished in late March 1986, and Laurel was succeeded as Secretary of Foreign Affairs \nby Raul Manglapus in 1987.\n\nHe ran for president in the 1992 elections as the head of the Nacionalista Party. However, he failed to gain Aquino's support and so lost to her favoured successor, Fidel V. Ramos.\n\nIn 1996, he was appointed by President Ramos as the chairman of the Philippine National Centennial Commission in the run-up to the Philippine Centennial of the country's independence on 12 June 1898. Through his unwavering leadership, he revived Filipino nationalism by promoting Filipino heritage and culture with heavy advertising.\n\nHe was supposed to resign after the Centennial celebrations, but President Joseph Estrada extended his term and abolished the Commission only in 1999. A few months after, Laurel was charged with graft before the Sandiganbayan (political antigraft court) for misappropriating funds for constructing of the controversial, ₱1.165-billion Centennial Expo in Clark Freeport Zone in Angeles City, Pampanga. Laurel vehemently denied the allegation and chose to stand as his own defense counsel.\n\nHe returned to private life and spent most of his retirement in the United States. He contracted lymphoma and died of the same ailment on 27 January 2004, in Atherton, California. His remains were cremated days afterward, with his ashes interred at the Libingan ng mga Bayani.\n\nOn 29 January, President Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo issued Presidential Proclamation № 544, declaring several days of official mourning for Laurel.\n\n"}
{"id": "2136149", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2136149", "title": "Kazimierz Sabbat", "text": "Kazimierz Sabbat\n\nKazimierz Aleksander Sabbat (27 February 1913 – 19 July 1989), was President of Poland in Exile from 8 April 1986 until his death, 19 July 1989, after serving (from 1976) as Prime Minister of the Polish Government in Exile.\n\nSabbat was born on 27 February 1913 in Bieliny Kapitulne, at the foot of the Lysa Gora mountain. Sabbat completed secondary school in Mielec, and studied Law at the Warsaw University shortly before the World War II. He was a Scout, and remained dedicated to the concept of Scouting, even in his later life while in exile.\n\nAfter a short service in the Navy, Sabbat was directed to the Motorized Brigade of Stanisław Maczek. Wounded during the Polish retreat, he managed to reach Great Britain where he was directed to the British General Staff as officer responsible for youth.\n\nAfter being discharged from the army in 1948, he started up his own successful business in England. He later worked for the Scouting Organization and the Association of Polish Veterans on a voluntary basis.\n\nAs an executive of the National Union he managed the Treasury Division, and in 1976 became the Prime Minister of the Polish government-in-exile. He attempted to unite the various émigré circles and created ever stronger links with the opposition movement in Poland, which benefited from the Government in exile's moral and material help through different Funds.\n\nHe became President of the Republic of Poland (in Exile) in 1986 succeeding Edward Raczyński. He died in London, aged 76, in 1989. Coincidentally, on the same day Wojciech Jaruzelski was elected by a still unfree Parliament as the first President of the country since the 1950s. Ryszard Kaczorowski, Minister of Domestic Affairs and designated successor, took office in exile and on 22 December 1990, after the first free and fair elections in Poland since the war, handed his powers and the insignia of the Polish Second Republic to President-elect Lech Wałęsa.\n\nSabbat is buried on Gunnersbury Cemetery in London, along with Anna Sabbat, who died on 28 April 2015. Their children all still live in areas near to London. He has eight grandchildren.\n\n"}
{"id": "2136154", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2136154", "title": "1908–09 in Scottish football", "text": "1908–09 in Scottish football\n\nThe 1908–09 season was the 36th season of competitive football in Scotland and the 19th season of the Scottish Football League.\n\nChampions: Celtic\n\nThe Scottish Cup was withheld by the Scottish Football Association after a riot following the replay between finalists Rangers and Celtic.\n\n. *replay **second replay\n\nKilwinning Rangers won the Junior Cup after a 1–0 win over Strathclyde in a replayed final.\n\nHeld to coincide with the Scottish National Exhibition event in the city, this early season competition was won by Rangers, beating Dundee in the final on the toss of a coin following a 1–1 draw.\n\nKey:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2136163", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2136163", "title": "Chalmers Wylie", "text": "Chalmers Wylie\n\nChalmers Pangburn Wylie (November 23, 1920 – August 14, 1998) was an American politician and lawyer from Ohio, who served in various public offices in that state before serving thirteen terms as a member of the United States House of Representatives.\n\nWylie was born in Norwich, Ohio, and grew up in Pataskala, a small community east of Columbus. He attended Otterbein College in Westerville and Ohio State University in Columbus. He earned his Juris Doctor at Harvard Law School in 1948.\n\nWylie enlisted in the United States Army as a private, and eventually attaining the rank of first lieutenant while serving with the 30th Infantry Division in Europe during World War II. He remained in the U.S. Army Reserve after the war, attaining the rank of lieutenant colonel.\n\nHe was:\n\nIn addition to his public service, Wylie worked in private practice as an attorney from 1957 until 1968, which he resumed in Columbus after leaving Congress until his death there.\n\nThe Chalmers P. Wylie VA Ambulatory Care Center in Columbus is named in his honor.\n\n"}
{"id": "2136164", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2136164", "title": "Soul Man (film)", "text": "Soul Man (film)\n\nSoul Man is a 1986 American comedy film about a white man who takes tanning pills in order to pretend to be black and qualify for a black-only scholarship at Harvard Law School. The film was directed by Steve Miner and stars C. Thomas Howell, Rae Dawn Chong, Arye Gross, James Earl Jones, Leslie Nielsen, James B. Sikking, and Julia Louis-Dreyfus.\n\nThe title refers to the Sam and Dave song \"Soul Man\". The original soundtrack includes a version performed by Sam Moore and Lou Reed.\n\nMark Watson (Howell) is the pampered son of a rich family who is about to attend Harvard Law School along with his best friend Gordon (Gross). Unfortunately, his father's neurotic psychiatrist talks his patient into having more fun for himself instead of spending money on his son. Faced with the prospect of having to pay for law school by himself, Mark decides to apply for a scholarship, but the only suitable one is for African-Americans only. He decides to cheat by using tanning pills in a larger dose than prescribed to appear as an African-American. Watson then sets out for Harvard, naïvely believing that black people have no problems at all in American society.\n\nHowever, once immersed in a Black student's life, Mark finds out prejudice and racism truly exists. He meets a young African-American student named Sarah Walker (Chong), whom he first only flirts with; gradually, however, he genuinely falls in love with her. In passing, she mentions that he received the scholarship she was in the running for at the last minute. Due to this, she not only has to handle her classes but work as a waitress to support herself and her young son George.\n\nSlowly, Mark begins to regret his deed since he has landed in jail under suspicion of stealing his own car, been the subject of stereotypes of black men and pursued by his landlord's daughter and classmate Whitney (Melora Hardin) simply because he's not white.\n\nAfter a chaotic day in which Sarah, his parents (who are not aware of his double life) and Whitney all make surprise visits at the same time, he drops the charade and publicly reveals himself to be white. Most people he has come into contact with realize this makes sense, but Sarah is furious.\n\nOnce the charade is over, Mark speaks to his professor (Jones). He has learned more than he bargained for since he admits that he didn't know what it was like to truly be black because he could have changed back to being white at any time.\n\nBecause Mark must forfeit his scholarship, he agrees to loan him the money for school, but with exorbitant interest. He goes to Sarah and begs for another chance, to which she agrees after Marks stands up for her and George when two male students tell a racist joke in front of them.\n\n\nHowell later said, \"when I made the movie, I didn't go into it with the idea that I had a responsibility to sort of teach America a lesson. I went into it because it was a great script. It was so well-written, so funny, and—sadly—very true. A lot of the experiences this guy goes through, maybe he wouldn't have gone through them if he was a white person, but when he's black, it's a very different experience.\"\n\nRon Reagan, son of then-president Ronald Reagan and first lady Nancy Reagan, had a small role in the film.\n\nThe film was widely criticized for featuring a Caucasian actor wearing blackface. When the film was released, some protests took place within the black community.\n\nNAACP Chapter President Willis Edwards said in a statement at the time, \"We certainly believe it is possible to use humor to reveal the ridiculousness of racism. However the unhumorous and quite seriously made plot point of \"Soul Man\" is that no black student could be found in all of Los Angeles who was academically qualified for a scholarship geared to blacks.\"\n\nIn defending the film, producer Steve Tisch said it was like \"Tootsie\". \"It used comedy as a device to expose sexual stereotyping. I think \"Soul Man\" uses it to explode racial stereotyping.\"\n\nActress Rae Dawn Chong said of the controversy:\nSpike Lee responded by saying, \"In my film career, any comment or criticism has never been based on jealousy.\"\n\n\"A white man donning blackface is taboo,\" said C Thomas Howell. \"Conversation over — you can't win. But our intentions were pure: We wanted to make a funny movie that had a message about racism.\"\n\nHowell later expanded:\n\nI’m shocked at how truly harmless that movie is, and how the anti-racial message involved in it is so prevalent... This isn’t a movie about blackface. This isn’t a movie that should be considered irresponsible on any level... It’s very funny... It made me much more aware of the issues we face on a day-to-day basis, and it made me much more sensitive to racism... It’s an innocent movie, it’s got innocent messages, and it’s got some very, very deep messages. And I think the people that haven’t seen it that judge it are horribly wrong. I think that’s more offensive than anything. Judging something you haven’t seen is the worst thing you can really do. In fact, Soul Man sort of represents that all the way through. I think it’s a really innocent movie with a very powerful message, and it’s an important part of my life. I’m proud of the performance, and I’m proud of the people that were in it. A lot of people ask me today, “Could that movie be made today?\"... Robert Downey Jr. just did it in \"Tropic Thunder\"!... The difference is that he was just playing a character in \"Tropic Thunder\", and there was no magnifying glass on racism, which is so prevalent in our country. I guess that’s what makes people more uncomfortable about Soul Man. But I think it’s an important movie.\n\nThe film was seen by President Ronald and Nancy Reagan at Camp David.:\"The Reagans enjoyed the film and especially enjoyed seeing their son Ron,\" a White House spokesman said at the time.\n\nControversy aside, the film was panned by critics. It has a score of only 13% on Rotten Tomatoes from 23 reviews. Roger Ebert gave \"Soul Man\" one out of four stars, writing that the main premise \"is a genuinely interesting idea, filled with dramatic possibilities, but the movie approaches it on the level of a dim-witted sitcom.\"\n\nDespite the controversy the film was a box office success. On its opening weekend, it debuted at #3 behind \"Crocodile Dundee\" and \"The Color of Money\" with $4.4 million. In total, \"Soul Man\" went on to gross $27.8 million domestically.\n\nA music video for the film's soundtrack was released for the Sam & Dave song \"Soul Man\" performed by Sam Moore and Lou Reed. The video starred actors Bruce Willis, Cybill Shepherd, Rae Dawn Chong, C. Thomas Howell, Ron Reagan Jr., George Segal, Jamie Farr, boxer Ray Mancini and the children's character Gumby, all lip synching to the song. \"Soul Man\" executive producer Steve Tisch got the actors to do the cameos.\n\nDefunct mathcore band Botch has a track named \"C. Thomas Howell as the 'Soul Man'\" on their release \"We Are the Romans\".\n\n\"Soul Man\" was released for the first time on DVD on March 19, 2002, by Anchor Bay Entertainment. Special Features included a theatrical and teaser trailer, along with an audio commentary by director Steve Miner and C.Thomas Howell.\n\nIt was released again by Anchor Bay Entertainment as a double feature along with \"Fraternity Vacation\" on November 20, 2007.\n\nOn October 20, 2011, it was released again as a double feature by Image Entertainment along with \"18 Again!\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2136173", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2136173", "title": "Turvey, Bedfordshire", "text": "Turvey, Bedfordshire\n\nTurvey is a village and civil parish on the River Great Ouse in Bedfordshire, England, about west of Bedford. The village is on the A428 road between Bedford and Northampton, close to the border with Buckinghamshire. The 2011 Census recorded the parish's population as 1,225.\n\nTurvey is recorded in Domesday Book of 1086 as a parish in the Hundred of Willey. There are eight separate entries for Turvey, including a total of 44 households. The Mordaunt family obtained the manor by marriage in 1197 and were ennobled as Barons of Turvey in the 16th century. The Mordaunt family house, Turvey Old Hall, was replaced by Turvey House in 1792, by which time the estate had passed to the Higgins family. It was extended in the 19th century and still stands. There is a second large house in the village called Turvey Abbey, which was historically a family house, but is now a Benedictine monastery.\n\nThe Church of England parish church of All Saints has Saxon origins but is almost certainly a post-Norman building. It is the largest church in the deanery of Sharnbrook and was in the Diocese of Lincoln until it was transferred to the Diocese of Ely in 1837. Since 1914 it has been in the Diocese of St Albans. It has a 13th-century door with its original ironwork, a Norman baptismal font, a wall painting of the crucifixion and some notable monuments, including monumental brasses. The Norman church was enlarged in the 14th and 15th centuries; sumptuous improvements were made by Sir Gilbert Scott.\n\nTurvey has a strong history of lace-making: there is evidence of a 19th-century lace-making school.\n\nIn the 19th century the Bedford to Northampton Line of the Midland Railway was built through the parish and opened in 1872. There was a Turvey railway station in Station Road about east of the centre of the village. British Railways closed the line in 1962.\n\n\nTurvey has two village stores (one with a post office), a butcher, village hall and two public houses: the Three Fyshes and The Three Cranes. There is a long-established pre-school, Turvey Pre-School Playgroup, that looks after children from 2 years old and also runs a Before and After School Club for children at the local school. Turvey Primary School is a school for children from reception (4 years old) to year six (11 years).\n\nStagecoach in Bedford bus route 41 bus between Bedford and Northampton serves the village.\n\nThe population of Turvey was 758 in 1801, rising to 1,028 in 1851 and falling to 782 by 1901. In 1951 it had dropped further to 733 but rose to 1,043 by 1991.\n\nTurvey electoral ward includes the villages of Stagsden and Kempston Rural. Its borough councillor is Jim Weir (Conservative).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2136175", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2136175", "title": "Donald D. Clancy", "text": "Donald D. Clancy\n\nDonald D. Clancy (July 24, 1921 – June 12, 2007) was a Republican member of the United States House of Representatives. He represented the 2nd District of Ohio from 1961 until 1977.\n\nClancy was born in Cincinnati, in Ohio's Hamilton County.\nHe graduated from Elder High School, attended Xavier University, and completed his studies at Cincinnati Law School in 1948.\n\nIn 1948, Clancy was admitted to the bar and commenced the practice of law in Cincinnati. He served on the city council from 1952 until 1960; from 1958 until 1960 he was the mayor as well as the chairman of the Cincinnati Planning Commission.\n\nClancy defeated current television talk show host Jerry Springer in his 1970 re-election campaign. Clancy received approximately 56% of the vote to Springer's 44%.\n\nBeginning with the Eighty-seventh Congress, Clancy was elected to congressional office for eight consecutive terms. When he lost his bid for reelection in 1976, he resumed the practice of law in Cincinnati.\n\nPatty Clancy, his daughter, was an Ohio State Senator, representing Ohio's 8th Senate District. His grandson, Donald D. Clancy, III, is an Assistant Prosecuting Attorney for Hamilton County, Ohio.\n\nClancy died on June 12, 2007 from complications of Parkinson's disease.\n"}
{"id": "2136176", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2136176", "title": "Bryan Pearce", "text": "Bryan Pearce\n\nWalter Bryan Pearce (25 July 1929 – 11 January 2007) was a British painter. He was recognised as one of the UK's leading naïve artists.\n\nBryan Pearce was born in St. Ives, Cornwall, which remained his home for the rest of his life. His father, Walter, was a butcher in St Ives, played rugby for Cornwall, and was later mayor of St Ives. His mother, Mary Warmington, was a painter from another local family.\n\nPearce suffered from the congenital disease phenylketonuria, which affects the normal development of the brain. He attended a special needs school in the 1940s and 1950s and then, encouraged by his mother and, later, by other St. Ives artists, he began drawing and painting in watercolours in 1953 before moving on to oil paint on board and, later, conté crayon. He attended Leonard Fuller's St. Ives School of Painting from 1953 to 1957.\n\nPearce specialised in paintings of his home town, and the surrounding Penwith area, drawn in typically flat style, with areas of bright colour surrounded by heavy outlines, like stained glass. His learning disabilities gave his art, in the words of Peter Lanyon, an \"awareness more direct\" than pure observation. Lanyon also said that \"Because his sources are not seen with a passive eye, but are truly happenings, his painting is original\", and \"It is necessary to accept these works as the labour of a man who has to communicate this way because there is no other.\" His art has been compared to that of Alfred Wallis.\nGuided by Denis Mitchell, he joined the Penwith Society of Arts in 1957, and the Newlyn Society of Artists. He had his first solo exhibition at the Newlyn Gallery near Penzance in 1959, and his first solo exhibition in London at the St Martin's Gallery in 1962. Retrospectives were held at various venues from 1966 to 2004, particularly at Penwith Gallery in 1966, the Museum of Modern Art in Oxford in 1975, the Royal Cornwall Museum in Truro in 2000, and the Victoria Art Gallery in Bath in 2004. Examples of his work are held by many public galleries. His business affairs were dealt with first by his family and ultimately by trustees, enabling him to concentrate on his art. In the second half of his career a good deal of his work was produced and sold in the form of prints in relatively small signed, numbered editions. Some of these were small hand-made etchings, with which the artist had a 'hands on' creative involvement; others were full size screenprints made by printer-craftsmen 'after' works in other media. The latter certainly render just over twenty of Pearce's original images, with their pure, expansive areas of specific colours, extremely convincingly. Two of the earliest screenprints, 'St Ives All Round' and 'Newlyn All Round' (both 1976) were printed in black line only. A number of one-colour lithographs also exist.\n\nBryan Pearce's mother, Mary, died in 1997. He died peacefully at home in St. Ives, and his funeral was held at St Ives Parish Church on 22 January 2007. An exhibition was held at the Tate Gallery, St Ives from 3 February - 13 May 2007. It had been planned as a retrospective but became a memorial show.\n\nThe Bryan Pearce Estate gave a collection of his works from the 1950s to 2006 to the Royal Cornwall Museum. These were shown 17 November 2007 – 5 January 2008, at the Museum. Meanwhile, on 12 March 2008, an auction record for a painting by Bryan Pearce was set at Bonham's New Bond Street auction rooms in London when the work \"St Ives Harbour 1\" (1965), 20\" x 46\", realised a hammer price of £28,000 (with commission around £33,500). This record was soon broken as, in the following May, Pearce's largest known oil painting, 'Penzance Harbour (all round)', oil on board 20.5\" x 60.5\", sold for £39000 (with commission around £47,000) at a Penzance auction house, and was destined for the permanent collection at Penlee House, Penzance. In October 2011, his St. Ives (all round) 1977, oil on board 24\" x 45½\", exceeded the pre-sale top estimate at Christies three times over, selling for £55250 (including buyer's premium) making it the most expensive Pearce to-date.\n\nSeveral biographies have been published, including Ruth Jones's \"The Path of the Son\" (1976), Marion Whybrow's \"Bryan Pearce: a private view\" (1985) and Janet Axten's \"The Artist and His Work\" (2004).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2136177", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2136177", "title": "Skeleton Canyon treasure", "text": "Skeleton Canyon treasure\n\nThe Skeleton Canyon treasure is said to be located in the Peloncillo Mountains within Skeleton Canyon. The canyon straddles the modern Arizona and New Mexico state line border and connects the Animas Valley of New Mexico, (the New Mexico Bootheel region), with the San Simon Valley of Arizona. An alleged treasure tale, involving a Mexican gang in a sack of Monterrey, Mexico and buried in southeastern Arizona's Skeleton Canyon in the summer and fall of 1881.\n\nAccording to extant stories, a Mexican gang led by Jose Estrada had sacked several banks and cathedrals in Monterrey, taking a large amount of gold and silver bullion, gold statuary, and diamonds. Some stories indicate the items taken include 39 gold bars and a cigarbox full of diamonds. This gang then made their way northwest, towards Arizona, where they were ambushed by American outlaws in the Peloncillo Mountains as they made their way through Skeleton Canyon towards the Animas Valley of New Mexico. Having killed off the Mexican outlaws, the American outlaws supposedly buried the treasure there, and made their way out of the canyon, only to die off one by one in a series of later double-crosses. The treasure remains unrecovered.\n\nIn treasure hunting there are always true stories, false ones, and those built up from minor events. Skeleton Canyon is of the latter. Between the late 1870s and early 1880s the Clanton Gang operated in that part of Arizona. Their modus operandi was to rustle cattle and sell the stock to the mining towns which sprang up during that time. Their victims included Mexicans, some of whom were involved in legitimate cattle drives, as well as those engaged in the illegal smuggling of various goods. The canyons along the western side of the Pelloncillos were favored as ambush sites, and it is documented that at least four such ambush/robberies took place. On 13 August 1881, in retaliation for one such ambush, Neuman Haynes Clanton was gunned down in the Guadalupe Canyon Massacre.\n\nThe ambush and robberies in those canyons may have netted the outlaws a small fortune, possibly a few thousand dollars at most, which then grew into the Skeleton Canyon tales today. The large amount that is stated in the tales never existed; a check of newspapers and government sources within Mexico and the U.S. states bordering the area revealed that the source of the treasure, Monterrey, was never sacked and robbed at any time.\n\nThe legend was dramatized on a 1990 episode of Unsolved Mysteries.\n"}
{"id": "2136180", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2136180", "title": "Division of Streeton", "text": "Division of Streeton\n\nThe Division of Streeton was an Australian Electoral Division in the state of Victoria. It was located on the eastern outskirts of Melbourne, and was named after the painter Sir Arthur Streeton. It covered the suburb of Croydon and the towns of Gembrook and Healesville.\n\nThe Division was proclaimed at the redistribution of 14 September 1984, and was first contested at the 1984 Federal election. It was abolished at the redistribution of 5 June 1989.\n"}
{"id": "2136192", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2136192", "title": "Social Action", "text": "Social Action\n\nSocial Action (, AS), previously known as Freedom of Action (\"Libertà di Azione\", LdA), was a national-conservative political party in Italy, founded and led by politician Alessandra Mussolini, who is the granddaughter of Benito Mussolini. The party became a faction within Silvio Berlusconi's People of Freedom party.\n\nMussolini, who had been a member of the National Alliance (AN) since its foundation, suddenly left that party on 28 November 2003, following the visit of party leader and the Deputy Prime Minister Gianfranco Fini to Israel, where he described fascism as \"the absolute evil\" as he apologised for Italy's role as an Axis Power during the Second World War. Mussolini however defended the right of Israel to exist and declared that the world \"should beg forgiveness of Israel\".\n\nMussolini then formed her party and organized a far-right coalition named Social Alternative. That was a surprising move, as Mussolini, during her political career, had always taken social progressive stances on many issues, including abortion, artificial insemination, gay rights and civil unions. She has been an outspoken \"feminist\". and has been described by conservative commentators as a \"socialist\" and a \"left-winger\"\n\nThe Social Alternative coalition was disbanded after the 2006 general election and by 2007 the party was almost disbanded as most of its original members returned to the National Alliance. Mussolini herself re-approached with Fini and was preparing her re-entry in AN when Silvio Berlusconi launched The People of Freedom (PdL). Mussolini decided to merge what remained of Social Action into the new party and was elected in the 2008 general election as part of the PdL. In October 2012, the balance of accounts of the People of Freedom showed that Social Action had received €100,000 of financial support from the PdL.\n\nWithin the PdL Mussolini soon became the leader of the \"pro-immigrant\" wing of the party, often opposing some of the policies of the Berlusconi government or taking an independent line from it.\n\n"}
{"id": "2136208", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2136208", "title": "Empress Elisabeth (disambiguation)", "text": "Empress Elisabeth (disambiguation)\n\nEmpress Elisabeth or Empress Elizabeth may refer to:\n"}
{"id": "2136212", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2136212", "title": "Night and Day (TV series)", "text": "Night and Day (TV series)\n\nNight and Day is a British mystery soap opera, produced by Granada Television for LWT, that first broadcast on 6 November 2001 on ITV, and ran until 5 June 2003. The series was launched as part of ITV's new early evening line-up, with an enormous amount of pre-publicity and trailers promoting the series. The series was written and created by acclaimed screenwriter Caleb Ranson, with other contributors to the series including John Jackson, Jessica Townsend, Cris Cole, Elizabeth Delaney, Jeff Dodds, Robert Fraser, Adrian Hewitt, Martha Jay, Charles Lambert, Ed McCardie, Adrian Pagan, Bradley Quirk, Tony Ramsay and Catherine Stedman. The series opening theme, \"Always & Forever\", was performed by Kylie Minogue.\n\nAt first, the series rated well, even drawing comparisons to series such as \"Twin Peaks\". However, as the series storylines became more bizarre and complex, it began to rate poorly, only gaining a small, cult fanbase, and was pushed to a later timeslot due to the lack of mainstream interest. Subsequently, little more than six months after the series premiered, filming wrapped on 17 May 2002, and the series was later axed by station executives, who cited low ratings as the principal reason. The final episode aired on screen on 5 June 2003.\n\nThe series begins on the sixteenth birthday of best friends Jane Harper and Della Wells, who live in the same street in Greenwich. However, before the day is over, Jane has disappeared. Over the next year, the lives of six families in the street become further intertwined as a tangled web of secrets and lies threaten to boil to the surface, and Jane's disappearance continues to have a devastating effect. The series combined typical soap opera plots, including babies switched at birth and clandestine affairs, with more unusual stories including murders at the catacombs, and an episode in which a mysterious stranger came to the street and stopped time to uncover the truth about the residents, only to eventually erase their memories of events of that alternative reality and turn everything back to normal.\n\nDespite the series being axed, the decision was made long before the final episode was set to air allowing the producers to script an ending to the series. As the series comes to a close, Sam – wandering away from home – finds Jane working as a geisha, with no memory of who she was. He returned her to her family, and her return – coming on the heels of the year anniversary of her disappearance – only served to increase tensions and bring secrets into the open. The final episode, the eightieth when counting only the hour-long episodes, focused on revealing some of the secrets behind the characters and Jane being arrested for murder. The episode then flashed forward to four years later and looked at one day in the very different lives of the residents of Greenwich, as Jane was seemingly released from prison and came to discover what had happened since. However, Natalie later learns that Jane was not released, and had in fact died in her cell that morning, and that the presence was in fact her ghost. The final episode closed with a montage of moments from the series to Björk's \"All is Full of Love\".\n\nThe series premiered with an unusual format: three thirty-minute episodes would air each week in a teatime slot, before being merged into one, single hour-long late-night \"omnibus\" episode, which aired on Thursdays, often containing additional explicit scenes (such as discussion or events that could not be aired in an earlier timeslot). The first thirty-minute episode attracted 2.2 million viewers, airing at 17:05 on 6 November 2001. Across the next few months, the series averaged 1.4 million viewers in this timeslot. However, on 27 March 2002, ITV announced it was removing the series from the teatime slot the following week. This was in response to the series' viewing figures rapidly declining, attracting only a 9% audience share and being beaten in the ratings by BBC Two's \"The Weakest Link\" and Channel 4's \"Richard & Judy\".\n\nThe series' removal was so sudden that TV listings for the next week still advertised it. Speaking of the decision to axe the teatime episodes, Tony Woods, then head of continuing drama at ITV, stated that \"\"The series has already established itself as cult viewing for young adults, and re-positioning it with a debut broadcast in the evening will build on its appeal\"\". The series continued to air the hour long episodes in a later time slot, with some episodes airing as late as 2AM. Most episodes also aired later than billed, some almost ten minutes behind the advertised schedule. The vacant teatime slot was filled by repeats of game shows such as \"Catchphrase\", \"You've Been Framed\" and \"Family Fortunes\". Eventually, in January 2003, a relaunched version of \"Crossroads\" aired in the slot, before it too was also cancelled after only a few months on air. The final hour long 'omnibus' episode aired on 5 June 2003 and attracted 500,000 viewers, despite airing at 00:30. In Australia, the series screened on ABC TV. It originally aired at 6pm on weeknights, as a lead into the evening news, but the later episodes were predominantly screened very late at night, in a similar fashion to the UK broadcast; although these retained the thirty-minute format.\n\nThe series was first unveiled by ITV executives on 27 April 2001, before the leading cast were announced on 9 May. The series was commissioned in the wake of ITV losing \"Home and Away\" to Channel 5. The series eventually premiered in November 2001 after production delays halted filming and meant that the original premiere date was pushed back.\n\n'Thornton Street' was in reality King George Street SE10, one of the most historic areas of Greenwich. Other locations in Greenwich included the Cutty Sark, the Old Greenwich Hospital and the park. 'St Vincents Halfway House' was actually in the borough of Tower Hamlets. Interior shots were filmed at the Three Mills Studios in Bow.\n\n\"Night and Day\" was nominated for ten awards at the British Soap Awards 2002, beating established rivals such as \"Hollyoaks\" and \"Emmerdale\". It won one award, 'Hero of the year' (chosen by a panel of judges) for the character of Sam giving up football to look after his orphaned siblings.finished filming on 17 May 2002 (the day before the British Soap Awards),\n\nSome five weeks before the final episode aired in 2003 many TV guides flagged up the weeks episode as the 'last in series'. Indeed, the Radio Times even printed a double page feature about the shows demise after 17 months on air. Quite why this error could have happened is unknown. This led to some fans thinking the series had ended on a knife-edge cliffhanger when in fact the next five weeks tied up all the loose ends to all plots.\n\nIn 2006 the \"Radio Times\" ran a small article about the fifth anniversary of \"Night and Day\"'s premiere. The programme was described as being stylish but with little substance.\n\nThe series was never released on DVD or video. The sheer number of songs used on the soundtrack throughout the series would make a DVD release financially impractical as each artist would need to be paid a royalty fee. At the time of the shows final transmission rumours circulated on fan message boards of a clause in the production contract that prevents a rerun of the series until 5 years after initial transmission. This has not been confirmed by ITV or LWT. As of 2014 (more than ten years since the final episode) the series has yet to being repeated.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2136217", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2136217", "title": "The Prodigal Stranger", "text": "The Prodigal Stranger\n\nThe Prodigal Stranger is the tenth studio album by Procol Harum, released in 1991. The album is dedicated to the memory of Barrie James (B. J.) Wilson, who had been the drummer on all of the group's previous albums. Recorded after a 14-year break, even singer Gary Brooker was uncertain whether or not the sessions would work out for the band: \"We never knew if it would work out, but we did know one thing and that was that the basis of us making the new Procol Harum record would be if we could get together a good set of songs...it was very like making a first album.\"\n\nAlthough Fisher hadn't played with the band since 1969's \"A Salty Dog\", he stated at the time \"I felt that I just sort of slotted back into it, like it had only been like the day before ... so it's not so much déjà vu as just carrying on where we left off.\" Fisher continued to perform and tour with Procol Harum until after the tour to support 2004's \"The Well's on Fire\"\n\nThe reunion of the remaining four (lyricist Keith Reid is considered a full member of the band) members didn't last long. Robin Trower performed on the album and co-wrote the music for \"All Our Dreams are Sold\" but he declined to join the group on the following tour and was replaced by Tim Renwick. The tour to promote the album was well received and attended in both Europe and the United States reflecting the respect and status of the group but was not reflected in album sales. The album didn't chart in the Billboard Top 100 in the United States although the single \"All Our Dreams Are Sold\" got decent airplay rising to #29 on the Billboard Mainstream Rock Charts.\n\nThe album received mixed reviews best summarized by the review at allmusic.com which stated that while Brooker was in fine voice the writing by Brooker's partner Keith Reid was \"in a mundane, conventional mode\" while Entertainment Weekly suggested \"...and though the songs in \"The Prodigal Stranger\" are occasionally overproduced, singer Gary Brooker's powerfully soulful voice still makes the difference every time. Most of \"The Prodigal Stranger\" would have sounded perfectly wonderful in 1969 — and in this case, that's a compliment.\"\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2136223", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2136223", "title": "Bürgerbräukeller", "text": "Bürgerbräukeller\n\nThe Bürgerbräukeller was a large beer hall in Munich, Germany. Opened in 1885, it was one of the largest beer halls of the Bürgerliches Brauhaus. After Bürgerliches merged with Löwenbräu in 1921, the hall was transferred to that company. \n\nThe Bürgerbräukeller was where Adolf Hitler launched the Beer Hall Putsch in November 1923, and in 1939 saw an attempted assassination of Hitler and other Nazi leaders by Georg Elser. It survived aerial bombing in World War II. \n\nThe Bürgerbräukeller was demolished in 1979, the Gasteig complex being built on its site.\n\nThe Bürgerbräukeller was located in the Haidhausen district of Munich on the east side of the Isar River. The entrance was from Rosenheimer Street, with rear access from Keller Street. Since 1980, the site has been redeveloped with the construction of the Gasteig Culture Centre, the Hilton Munich City Hotel and the headquarters of GEMA.\n\nAs early as the 16th century, brewers in Bavaria would collect the barrels of beer near the end of the brewing season and stock them in specially developed cellars for the summer. By the 18th century, brewers discovered they could make a greater profit if they opened their garden-topped cellars to the public and served the beer on site. In the 20th century, the Bürgerbräukeller had both a cellar and a beer garden, as well as the grand hall for indoor functions.\n\nThe grand hall was a rectangular space accommodating up to 3,000 people, though less in full dining mode. Freestanding pillars on either side of the hall supported narrow galleries and the roof. The load-bearing walls and the internal pillars with classical capitals were plastered brickwork. A decorative plastered ceiling, divided into bays with three rows of chandeliers, concealed steel beams supporting the timber roof structure.\n\nFrom 1920 to 1923, the Bürgerbräukeller was one of the main gathering places of the Nazi Party. There, on 8 November 1923, Adolf Hitler launched the Beer Hall Putsch. After Hitler seized power in 1933, he commemorated each anniversary on the night of 8 November with an address to the \"Alte Kämpfer\" (Old Fighters) in the great hall of the Bürgerbräukeller. The following day, a re-enactment was conducted of the march through the streets of Munich from the Bürgerbräukeller to Königsplatz. The event climaxed with a ceremony at the Feldherrnhalle to revere the 16 'blood martyrs' of the Beer Hall Putsch.\n\nIn 1939, a time bomb concealed inside a pillar in the Bürgerbräukeller was set to go off during Hitler's Beer Hall Putsch address on 8 November. The bomb exploded, killing eight people and injuring 57, but Hitler had cut short his speech and had already left. An idealist, Georg Elser, was arrested, imprisoned for 5 ½ years, and executed shortly before the end of the war.\nThe building suffered severe structural damage from Elser's bomb, and in subsequent years, 1940-1943, the Beer Hall Putsch address was held at the Löwenbräukeller at Stiglmaierplatz, and in 1944 at the Circus Krone Building.\n\nAfter the attempted assassination of Hitler on 8 November 1939, repairs began on the Bürgerbräukeller with the intention of repairing the building to its original state. Due to the shortage of materials, work was never completed. During the Allied aerial bombing of Munich, a single bomb hit the hall where the 1939 explosion had taken place, but failed to explode.\n\nWhen American forces entered Munich on April 30, 1945, the 42nd ‘Rainbow’ Infantry Division found the Bürgerbräukeller filthy, piled with Nazi Party records, and unused.\n\nThe Bürgerbräukeller served as an American Red Cross Club starting in late 1945 and became a Special Services club in September 1947. An average of 1,700 servicemen made use of the various facilities of the club every day. The Bürgerbräukeller was one of nine service clubs in the Munich Military Post.\n\nWith the departure of American forces in 1957, the Bürgerbräukeller was taken over by the Lowenbrau Beer Company, and after partial rebuilding, was reopened as a bierkeller at Christmas, 1958.\n\nIn preparation for the 1972 Olympic Games in Munich, the city authorities undertook the construction of an underground railway system. The construction of station escalators emerging on Rosenheimerstrasse, next to the Bürgerbräukeller, required the cellar, which had been used for Nazi Party meetings, to be sealed off. In 1976, the great hall at the rear was still available for large gatherings.\n\nIn the 1970s, it was in use also as a recording studio, Carlos Kleiber's \"La Traviata\" being recorded there in 1976.\n\nThe Bürgerbräukeller was demolished in 1979 in a redevelopment programme, as were the nearby Münchner-Kindl-Keller and the Hofbräu brewery.\n\nOn the Bürgerbräukeller site now stands the GEMA building, the Gasteig Cultural Centre, and the Munich City Hilton Hotel.\n\nNear the entrance to the GEMA building, a plaque in the paving marks the position of the pillar that concealed Georg Elser's bomb in his attempt to assassinate Adolf Hitler.\n\n"}
{"id": "2136229", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2136229", "title": "Roozonline", "text": "Roozonline\n\nRooz (, literally \"day\") is a Persian and English news website. It is mostly staffed by exiled Iranian journalists including Masoud Behnoud, Ebrahim Nabavi and Nikahang Kowsar with occasional articles by activists and journalists inside Iran, including Shirin Ebadi and Ahmad Zeidabadi. Another contributor is Hossein Derakhshan, who has been under arrest in Tehran since 1 November 2008.\nIt was first published on the web on May 10, 2005. It is published by \"Iran Gooya\" (registered in France).\n\nIranian critics of the website argue that it does not work in the interest of that nation, and does not represent factual accuracy of the events. Their reasoning is based on the website's funding by Hivos, a Dutch organization which in turn is funded by the government of Netherlands.\n\nIn November 2006, Hossein Derakhshan who maintained the Rooz website claimed on his blog that he was accused of working for the Islamic Republic government and therefore not paid for a year by Rooz. Furthermore, he hoped that Hivos, a Dutch organization that helps to fund for Rooz, would pressure them to allow more freedom of speech to their staff. In response, Nikahang Kowsar claimed that Derakhshan has taken the website \"hostage\" and that he demands \"ransom\", and asked director Hossein Bastani to confront Derakhshan.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2136231", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2136231", "title": "1909–10 in Scottish football", "text": "1909–10 in Scottish football\n\nThe 1909–10 season was the 37th season of competitive football in Scotland and the 20th season of the Scottish Football League.\n\nCeltic extended their record run of consecutive league titles to six, while Dundee were Scottish Cup winners for the first time. On the international front, Scotland were outright British champions for the first time in eight years.\n\nChampions: Celtic\n\nScottish Cup Final\nReplay\nSecond Replay\n\n\nJunior Cup Final\n\nScotland were winners of the 1910 British Home Championship.\n\nKey:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2136239", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2136239", "title": "National Front (Italy, 1997)", "text": "National Front (Italy, 1997)\n\nThe National Front (\"Fronte Nazionale\", FN) is an Italian far-right political party.\n\nThe FN had its roots in the Tricolour Flame when two leading radicals, Tomaso Staiti di Cuddia and Adriano Tilgher, were expelled from the party in 1997. As a response Tilgher formed his own group in September of that year, calling it \"National Front\" (a name already used twice before on the Italian far right) and basing it on the French National Front of Jean-Marie Le Pen. The party, which initially confined its operations largely to Rome, gained 18,000 votes in that city in the local elections of 1998.\n\nThe party began to expand in early 2000, seeking to work with other minor groups on the far right to form a united alternative to the National Alliance. The group reconstituted under the FSN name after a merger with further dissident elements within the Fiamma Tricolore. In March 2003 supporters of the new group protested outside the Swiss embassy against the jailing of Gaston-Armand Amaudruz.\n\nFor the 2004 European election the party joined with \"Social Action\" and New Force in the Alessandra Mussolini-led coalition \"Social Alternative\", which captured a single seat in the European Parliament. They remained part of this coalition until its dissolution following poor results in the 2006 general election.\n\nIn 2008 Tilgher joined with Francesco Storace's group \"The Right\", and the FSN disbanded.\n\nHowever, in 2013 the party comes out from The Right and regains its autonomy.\n"}
{"id": "2136253", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2136253", "title": "Division of Wilmot", "text": "Division of Wilmot\n\nThe Division of Wilmot was an Australian Electoral Division in the state of Tasmania. It was located in central Tasmania, and was named after Sir John Eardley-Wilmot, the sixth Lieutenant-Governor of Tasmania. At various times it included the towns of Deloraine, Beaconsfield, Devonport, Latrobe, and New Norfolk.\n\nThe Division was proclaimed on 2 October 1903, when Tasmania was first divided into Divisions, and was first contested at the 1903 Federal election. At the electoral redistribution of 12 September 1984, it was abolished and replaced by the Division of Lyons, in order to jointly honor Joseph Lyons, the tenth Prime Minister of Australia, who held Wilmot at the federal level from 1929–1939 and at the state level from 1909 to 1929, and his wife Dame Enid Lyons, the first woman elected to the Australian House of Representatives in 1943 and subsequently the first female member of Cabinet (1949–51).\n"}
{"id": "2136267", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2136267", "title": "Jack Hildyard", "text": "Jack Hildyard\n\nJack Hildyard, B.S.C. (17 March 1908 in London – September 1990 in London) was a British cinematographer who worked on more than 80 films during his career. \n\nHe made several films with David Lean including \"The Sound Barrier\" (1952) and \"Hobson's Choice\" (1954), as well as \"The Bridge on the River Kwai\" (1957), for which he won an Academy Award for Best Cinematography and the British Society of Cinematographers Award. \n\nHis first film was \"Freedom of the Seas\" in 1934, as a focus-puller, before working as camera operator on films for Leslie Howard and others, including \"Pygmalion\", \"The Divorce of Lady X\" and \"Pimpernel Smith\". His first film as cinematographer was Laurence Olivier's 1944 film \"Henry V\", which gave him invaluable experience of colour cinematography and his subsequent films made him one of the most sought after cameramen in England. \n\nHis other films included \"Caesar and Cleopatra\" (1945), \"Anastasia\" (1956), \"The Sundowners\" (1960), \"55 Days at Peking\" (1963), \"Battle of the Bulge\" (1965), \"Casino Royale\" (1967), \"The Beast Must Die\" (1974), \"Emily\" (1976), and \"The Wild Geese\" (1978). He photographed both of producer-director Moustapha Akkad's films on Islamic history, \"The Message\" (1976) and \"Lion of the Desert\" (1981) and in 1983, director Mohamed Shukri Jameel's film, produced by Saddam Hussein, \"Al-Mas' Ala Al-Kubra\", which was nominated for the Golden Prize at the 1983 Moscow International Film Festival.\n\nHe was also nominated for BAFTA Awards for his work on \"The V.I.P.s\" (1963), \"The Yellow Rolls-Royce\" (1964) and \"Modesty Blaise\" (1966). \n\nHe was awarded the British Society of Cinematographers Lifetime Achievement Award in 1990.\n\nJack Hildyard was the brother of sound engineer and two times Oscar winner David Hildyard.\n\n"}
{"id": "2136278", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2136278", "title": "Remy Bonjasky", "text": "Remy Bonjasky\n\nRemy Kenneth Bonjasky (born January 10, 1976) is a Surinamese-Dutch former kickboxer. He is a three-time K-1 World Grand Prix super heavyweight champion, winning the title in 2003, 2004, and 2008. Bonjasky has been known for his flying kicks, knee attacks and strong defense, hence the nickname \"The Flying Gentleman\".\n\nBonjasky was born in Paramaribo, Suriname and moved to Tilburg in the Netherlands when he was five years old. Bonjasky was involved in football during his teens, but quit after breaking his leg. At the age of 18, when a friend brought him to the Mejiro Kickboxing Gym to \"see who is the best\", Bonjasky decided to stay and train and eventually fell in love with kickboxing. After graduating from university, Bonjasky worked as a banker at ABN Amro for a time.\n\nBonjasky had his first fight at the age of 19 against Valentijn Overeem. Bonjasky won by TKO. From this moment on he quit his job as a network operator and focused on training full-time. Despite losing his first K-1 fight by split decision he made his second fight against an established K-1 fighter, Ray Sefo, winning by TKO.\n\nBonjasky lost against K-1 and kickboxing superstar Stefan Leko in 2002.\n\nOn December 6, 2003 at the \"K-1 World Grand Prix 2003\" quarter-finals in Tokyo, Japan, Bonjasky was matched up against Australian fighter Peter \"The Chief\" Graham. Remy won the fight by a TKO in the first round. In semi-finals Cyril Abidi fell victim of The Flying Gentleman's flying knee attacks, and after defeating Musashi in the tournament finals by unanimous decision Bonjasky was crowned the K-1 World champion.\n\nIn 2004 he accumulated wins over Tsuyoshi Nakasako, Francois Botha, Aziz Khattou and ex-sumo champion Chad \"Akebono\" Rowan. If it hadn't been for his one loss in 2004 against Francisco Filho he would have beaten Semmy Schilt's record of the longest winning streak in K-1 history.\n\nOn December 4, 2004 at the \"K-1 World Grand Prix 2004\", with three decision wins over Ernesto Hoost, Francois Botha and Musashi, Bonjasky successfully defended his K-1 WGP title.\n\nHe presented himself on November 19, 2005 for the \"K-1 World Grand Prix 2005\" finals in Tokyo, to keep his title for a third consecutive year, but was stopped by Semmy Schilt's knee strikes in the tournament's semi-finals.\n\nIn 2006, after his divorce and change of trainers, he came back to the \"K-1 World Grand Prix 2006\" finals. In his quarter-final match, he got a rematch against former foe Stefan Leko, who'd beaten him in 2002, and it turned into a grudge match. When Bonjasky was champion, Leko was taking a hiatus away from K-1, and his career rise had thus stalled. Prior to his rematch with Remy, he pledged that the 2006 Grand Prix would be his year to finally become the undisputed champion, at the expense of Bonjasky whom he'd beaten before. Bonjasky stated that Leko was 'limited'. In the fight, Bonjasky got hit in the groin twice in the first round and the fight was postponed for 30 minutes. When the bout resumed, Bonjasky still managed to win the fight by a unanimous decision, after scoring a knockdown in the final minute of the fight. However, because of a persisting injury to the groin, he was not able to continue the tournament and was replaced by Peter Aerts.\n\nIn 2007 Bonjasky's mother died. Because Remy was badly hurt by this he pulled out of scheduled fights with Badr Hari and Peter Aerts. His only fight before the Final 16 was against Glaube Feitosa in Hawaii. Remy won by decision and remained open for the Final 16 event.\n\nOn September 29, 2007 Bonjasky was booked in a rubber match with Stefan Leko at the \"K-1 World GP 2007 in Seoul Final 16\" event. The pair went in with bad blood, as Remy claimed that simply hearing the name of Leko 'made his blood boil' after their second fight, and he claimed that the groin shots he delivered were deliberate. He further lit the fuse by claiming Leko was a limited fighter, who 'only had a couple of punches and a spinning back kick, nothing else'. Leko for his part said he would be glad to prove once and for all that he was the superior fighter, which he claimed was clear from their first fight, and that Remy was 'an actor', and had been 'lucky' the second fight, and had 'the heart of a chicken'.\n\nBonjasky won the grudge fight by TKO when the ref stopped it in the first round after landing his trademark flying knee strike. Leko beat the count, but the referee waved off the bout. Some have criticised the stoppage as K-1 protecting the by-then bigger name superstar, as Remy had been their World Grand Prix champion, and that K-1 wanted him through to the later stages. Others said that Leko did not display that he still had his faculties. Regardless, the fight marked the end (as of 2011) of the feud between the two, and the win qualified Bonjasky for the \"K-1 World Grand Prix 2007 Finals\" which were held on December 8, 2007 at the Yokohama Arena in Japan.\n\nAt the K-1 World Grand Prix 2007 Finals, Remy Bonjasky faced fellow Dutch fighter Badr Hari. He won the fight by decision. In the semi-finals he faced Dutch legend Peter Aerts, losing to Aerts in a unanimous decision.\n\nBonjasky started off 2008 by knocking out Melvin Manhoef in Amsterdam, Bazigit Atajev in Tapei and majority decision over Paul Slowinski in the K-1 16 to qualify for his 6th Grand Prix appearance.\n\nIn the quarter finals he defeated Jerome Lebanner by TKO, Gokhan Saki by KO in the semi-finals, sending him to the K-1 World Grand Prix Finals for the third time against Badr Hari. After a slow start he knocked Hari down with a left hook and then went on defensive for the rest of the round. Remy was hit after the bell at the end of the round by an angry Hari. In the second round Hari took Remy to ground, then punched him twice and then gave an unsportsmanlike foot stomp to Remy when he was down. Remy seemed unable to get up and was inspected by the ringside doctors. Meanwhile, Hari screamed at Remy, telling him to get up and quarrelled with his trainer, Ivan Hippolyte. After 5 minutes the doctors announced Remy had double vision and could not continue. Hari was therefore disqualified and Bonjasky was declared the K-1 World Grand Prix 2008 Champion. Remy was disappointed by the outcome, evident from his unhappy expression after the decision was announced.\n\nBonjasky stated in a post-fight interview that he still had double vision and a headache the next morning. Hari however claimed that \"Remy was acting\", and that, \"his corner was screaming at him to stay down\".\n\nAfter he won his 3rd GP title, he faced Alistair Overeem. Overeem was aggressive in the 1st and dominant in the 2nd round, knocking Bonjasky down in the end of the 2nd round with a right cross, but referee Nobuaki Kakuda did not count it. In the 3rd round Remy knocked Alistair down with a flying knee and right punch combo to secure a unanimous decision win. All three judges scored the bout 30-28. It was later confirmed that Remy had badly twisted his left knee 2 days before the fight (reason for his inactivity). Remy went on medical recovery after the fight and did not fight again for months.\n\nRemy returned to training to train for the \"K-1 World Grand Prix 2009 Final 16\". At the event he defeated Melvin Manhoef, for the third time, by unanimous decision.\n\nAt the \"K-1 World Grand Prix 2009 Final\" Remy was won his third consecutive unanimous decision against Errol Zimmerman. In the Semi Finals he met his nemesis Semmy Schilt. In the first round Remy landed a left hook to knock Semmy down. Semmy however landed a low kick to Remy's left leg that was damaged in his earlier fight with Zimmerman, Remy was therefore knocked out of the tournament, losing to Semmy for the third time.\n\nBonjasky was absent from the \"K-1 World Grand Prix 2010 in Yokohama\" tournament, and did not fight at all in 2010, and has pondered retirement after having eye surgery in August of the year. He opened his own kickboxing / muaythai gym, Bonjasky Academy, in the city of Almere in that year.\n\nAfter three years out of the ring due to an eye injury, Bonjasky faced Anderson \"Braddock\" Silva at \"\" on October 6, 2012 in Brussels, Belgium. After a close three rounds, the bout was called a draw and went into an extension round. Silva faded and allowed Bonjasky to get the better of him, coming out as the majority decision winner.\n\nHe competed in the sixteen-man 2012 Glory Heavyweight Grand Slam at \"\" in Saitama, Japan on December 31, 2012. At the opening stage, he defeated Filip Verlinden by unanimous decision, taking rounds one and three. He was then eliminated in the quarter-finals, however, when he looked lackluster against newcomer Jamal Ben Saddik and, due to the \"best of three\" format in the tournament, lost on points after two rounds.\n\nHe faced Tyrone Spong at \"\" in London, England on March 23, 2013. Bonjasky lost in the second round via KO from a right hook.\n\nHe lost to Anderson Silva by unanimous decision in a rematch at \"\" in Tokyo, Japan on December 21, 2013.\n\nHe defeated Mirko Cro Cop by majority decision in a rematch at \"\" in Zagreb, Croatia on March 8, 2014. The fight would be his last as he announced his retirement at a pre-fight press conference in the days leading up to the bout.\n\nIn July 2017, he announced another comeback via Instagram, stating that he signed a contract with Glory kickboxing. Later that year it was announced that he would face Melvin Manhoef for the fourth time. The fight was not promoted by Glory but instead World Fighting League, a promotion founded by Melvin Manhoef, promoted the fight. The bout took place in Almere, Netherlands on October 29, 2017. Bonjasky lost the bout by decision. After the bout he announced his retirement.\n\n\nAside from the sport, Bonjasky has worked as a banker, network administrator, and model. One of his latest modeling acts is to be the face for the men's line of Dutch lingerie brand \"Sapph\". He has worked for the brand since 2010 along with former swimmer Inge de Bruijn, the face for the women's line of the brand.\n\nIn early 2011 Bonjasky appeared on Season 4 of the \"Sterren Dansen op het IJs\" show, the Dutch version of \"Skating with Celebrities\" (\"Dancing on Ice\"), performing a figure skating routine with his \"Sapph\" fellow Inge de Bruijn. It has been expected since then that he will become a TV presenter.\n\nBonjasky has been awarded two medals of honor since 2007.\n\nNear the end of July 2007 in Amsterdam, he helped Dutch police in the arrest of two British criminals. The two men had shot darts at passers-by with a rifle while they were on the move in a van. Bonjasky was their last victim, and after having been hit by the dart he pursued the van in a cab and proceeded to call the police who managed to arrest the criminals. Following the arrest, Bonjasky received a medal from the Amsterdam Police Department for this courageous and honorable act.\n\nIn 2009 he was awarded the medal of honor by the city of Almere, becoming an honorary citizen of the city, after being chosen by the city's politician Arno Visser, for his accomplishments in the sport.\n\nRemy Bonjasky's own gym, a kickboxing gym named \"Bonjasky Academy\", officially opened on September 6, 2010 in Almere. The opening ceremony was attended by two TV presenters and four athletes, Quinty Trustfull, Humberto Tan, Kew Jaliens, Peter Aerts, Jerome Le Banner, and Ernesto Hoost.\n\n"}
{"id": "2136283", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2136283", "title": "Sandy Herd", "text": "Sandy Herd\n\nAlexander \"Sandy\" Herd (24 April 1868 – 18 February 1944) was a Scottish professional golfer from St Andrews. He won The Open Championship in 1902 at Hoylake.\n\nBorn in St Andrews, Scotland, on 24 April 1868, to a golfing family, Herd had brothers who were also golf professionals.\n\nHerd was the club professional at Huddersfield Golf Club from 1892 to 1911. He won The Open Championship in 1902 at Hoylake. Herd had a three-shot lead after 54 holes, but nearly let the title slip out of his hands by scoring an 81 in the final round. Harry Vardon and James Braid both had medium length putts at the final hole to force a playoff, but they missed and Herd took the Championship.\n\nHerd was the first Open Champion to use the Haskell rubber-cored ball. In 1920, he became the oldest runner-up in The Open at age 52, which stood for 89 years, until Tom Watson (age 59) in 2009. Herd's appearances in the championship spanned fifty years, the last at age 71 at St Andrews in 1939, but failed to advance from qualifying. He last played in The Open six years earlier in 1933, but twisted an ankle during the first round and had to withdraw; he last made the cut in 1927 and tied for tenth.\n\nHerd's brother Fred won the U.S. Open in 1898.\n\nHerd also got involved in golf course architect and worked with Alister MacKenzie to create Wakefield Golf Clubs 18-hole course.\n\nFollowing an operation, Herd died of pneumonia at age 75 in London in 1944.\n\n\nMajor championships are shown in bold.\n\n\"Note: Herd only played in The Open Championship\"<br>\n\nNT = No tournament<br>\nCUT = missed the half-way cut<br>\nWD = withdrew<br>\n\"T\" indicates a tie for a place\n\n"}
{"id": "2136298", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2136298", "title": "Lingyin Temple", "text": "Lingyin Temple\n\nLingyin Temple () is a Buddhist temple of the Chan sect located north-west of Hangzhou, Zhejiang Province, China. The temple's name is commonly literally translated as Temple of the Soul's Retreat. It is one of the largest and wealthiest Buddhist temples in China, and contains numerous pagodas and Buddhist grottoes.\n\nThe monastery is the largest of several temples in the Wulin Mountains (), which also features many grottos and religious rock carvings, the most famous of which is the \"Feilai Feng\" (; literally: \"the peak that flew hither\").\n\nAccording to tradition, the monastery was founded in 328 AD during the Eastern Jin dynasty (265–420) by an Indian monk, named Huili in Chinese. From its inception, Lingyin was a famous monastery in the Jiangnan region. At its peak under the Wuyue Kingdom (907–978), the temple boasted nine multi-story buildings, 18 pavilions, 72 halls, more than 1300 dormitory rooms, inhabited by more than 3000 monks. Many of the rich Buddhist carvings in the Feilai Feng grottos and surrounding mountains also date from this era.\n\nDuring the later Southern Song dynasty (1127–1279), the monastery was regarded as one of the ten most important temples of the Chan sect in the Jiangnan region. However, its prominence has not saved the temple from marauders. It has been rebuilt no less than sixteen times since then. The current buildings are modern restorations of late Qing (1644–1911) buildings. \n\nDuring the Cultural Revolution, the temple and grounds suffered some damage at the hands of Red Guards. However, they escaped large scale destruction partly because of the protection of Premier Zhou Enlai.\n\nToday the temple is thriving as a destination for both pilgrims and tourists. It is regarded as one of the wealthiest monasteries in China, and regular pilgrims have included former paramount leader Deng Xiaoping.\n\nThe Wuling Mountains area is a major centre of Chan Buddhism in south-eastern China. A number of smaller temples are also located in the area. Today, Lingyin and the surrounding areas are marketed as the Lingyin-Feilai Feng Scenic Area, with ticketed admission. Visitors enter from a screen wall marked with a four character inscription \"the Western Heaven is within reach\" (). Proceeding down the road from the entrance, the visitor first sees Feilai Feng on the left, then Lingyin Hill on the right. The entire scenic area is dotted with historic buildings and artwork, including pagodas, pavilions, bridges, and statues. The largest stone pagoda is located near the entrance. Called Elder Li's Pagoda (), it houses the ashes of Huili. \nThe area is thickly wooded, with some trees labelled as many centuries old.\n\nFeilai Feng, or \"the Peak that Flew Hither\", also commonly translated as \"Flying Peak\" (), is located in front of the temple proper. The peak is so-named because it is made of limestone, giving it a craggy appearance very different from the surrounding mountains. Legend holds that the peak was originally from India (with some versions suggesting that it is Vulture Peak), but flew to Hangzhou overnight as a demonstration of the omnipotence of Buddhist law. Many rock reliefs dot the surface of the peak. More are located in various caves and grottoes throughout the peak. Within the main cave, dedicated to the bodhisattva Guanyin, there is a crack in the ceiling of the cave that stretches up to the surface, so that a person standing at a certain position can see a sliver of sunlight. This is known as the \"one thread of heaven\" ().\n\nThe main axis of Lingyin follows a traditional Song dynasty five-hall Chan sect structure. The main axis stretches up the Lingyin Hill. However, the five-hall axis is a recent recreation. Only the front three halls are a part of the Qing dynasty axis.\n\nThe formal entrance of the temple is the Hall of the Four Heavenly Kings. This hall is a double-eaved building. The front of the building carries a plaque (), written by the Kangxi Emperor. The principal statue in this hall is that of the Maitreya Buddha in his manifestation as the cloth bag monk, or the Laughing Buddha. At the back, facing up the hill, is the Skanda Buddha, or Weituo as he is known in Chinese. This statue dates from the Southern Song Dynasty. Being 800 years old this is the oldest and most important statue in the temple. Arranged along the left and right are the Four Heavenly Kings. The ceiling is ornately painted and decorated with phoenixes and dragons.\n\nThe statues of Four Heavenly Kings are imposing. Visitors to the temple are often impressed by the size and majesty of the entrance hall and its statues of the heavenly kings. Indeed, the hall of the Heavenly Kings at the Lingyin Temple is as large or larger than the main hall at many temples, reflecting its status as the centre of Buddhism in south-eastern China.\n\nThe Hall of the Heavenly Kings is the formal entrance to the temple. However, this entry has been closed in recent years, with visitors funneled instead through side doors, where separate ticket offices are set up for admission to the temple.\n\nThe second and principal hall is the Mahavira Hall. It is separated from the Hall of the Heavenly Kings by a large courtyard, featuring a raised lawn bordered with trees. To the left of the courtyard stands the Hall of the Five Hundred Arhats. The Grand Hall of the Great Sage is triple eaved and stands 33.6 metres tall. It houses, as is traditional, a statue of Shakyamuni, the historical Buddha. The present statue was carved in 1956 from camphor wood in Tang dynasty style and coated with 60 taels of gold. It is the largest wooden Buddhist statue in China. At the back of the main statue is a statue of Guanyin, backed by a large screen that features the carved images of some 150 Buddhist personalities, including the pilgrims of the Journey to the West, Daoji, and arhats. Arranged along the sides of the hall are images of the 18 principal arhats, and other prominent Buddhists. The interior of the hall reaches about 30 metres, with a gold-painted ceiling featuring bas-relief images of traditional Buddhist symbols.\n\nFurther uphill and behind the main hall is the Hall of Bhaisajyaguru (), housing a statue of the Bhaisajyaguru Buddha, commonly called the Medicine Buddha.\n\nUphill from the Hall of the Medicine Buddha is the Buddhist Texts Library. This, and the Huayan Hall behind it, were built from 2000 to 2002 to re-create the five-hall main axis. The Sutra Library does not house a major statue and is not open for worship.\n\nThe fifth and last hall on the main axis is the Avatamsaka Hall, or Huayan Hall (). Also built in 2002, this hall houses statues of the three sages of the Avatamsaka Sutra, known as the Huayan Sutra in Chinese – Shakyamuni, Manjusri, and Samantabhadra.\n\nThe Hall of Five Hundred Arhats (), also a modern addition, faces onto the western side of the courtyard in front of the main hall. The building has a complex floor plan, shaped like a Buddhist swastika. Along the arms of the swastika are arranged the five hundred arhats as slightly larger-than-life bronze statues. Each statue is seated on a unique ornate seat. At the centre, where the arms of the swastika join, stands a bronze canopy housing statues of four bodhisattvas representing the four cardinal directions. This is currently the tallest solid bronze structure in the world.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2136309", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2136309", "title": "1990 in baseball", "text": "1990 in baseball\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2136311", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2136311", "title": "Helfer", "text": "Helfer\n\nHelfer is a German word which translates as \"Helper\", and the word was used as a paramilitary rank of the Nazi Party between the years of 1938 and 1945. The Nazi rank of \"Helfer\" was a junior position of the Political Leadership Corps, ranking only above \"Anwärter\". A \"Helfer\" in the Nazi Party typically served as a junior assistant to a higher official. The rank was created at first to replace the older Nazi rank of \"Blockleiter\"; however, a massive expansion of Nazi Party ranks in 1938 assigned the old duties of a \"Blockleiter\" to a rank known as \"Arbeitsleiter\". The rank of \"Helfer\" then became an assistant position to such higher ranks.\n\nThe insignia for a \"Helfer\" consisted of a brown collar patch with an eagle and swastika, and one or two stripes on the lower portion of the collar tab. A single stripe denoted the rank of \"Helfer\" while two stripes denoted the higher position of \"Oberhelfer\". The rank of \"Helfer\" was also common in Nazi student groups, typically held by the leader of a local student cell who answered to a local Nazi Party leader. In the film “\"Die Weiße Rose\"”, a character known as “Studentenführer”, holds the rank of \"Helfer\". The Nazi rank of \"Helfer\" ceased to exist in 1945.\n\n\"Helfer\" remains a fairly common term for \"aide\" or \"assistant\" in the German language. The word as a positional rank has occasionally been used by some corporations and industries, to designate a junior assistant to a more skilled employee.\n\n\"Helfer\" is also a surname seen mostly throughout central Europe and the United States. Tricia Helfer is probably the most well known person with the surname. She is a Canadian born actress that has appeared in many films and shows.\n\nHelfer is also the brand name of a Swiss watchmaker from Geneva.\n"}
{"id": "2136327", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2136327", "title": "Daxter (video game)", "text": "Daxter (video game)\n\nDaxter is a platform video game developed by Ready at Dawn and published by Sony Computer Entertainment on the PlayStation Portable on March 14, 2006. A spin-off of the \"Jak and Daxter\" series, \"Daxter\" takes place during the 2-year timeskip occurring during the opening cutscene of \"Jak II\"; unlike the other installments of the franchise focusing primarily on Jak, the game focuses on the adventures of his sidekick Daxter while Jak is imprisoned.\n\nAs of September 3, 2019, the game has sold 4.2 million copies, and received generally positive reviews from critics.\n\nPlayers assume the role of Daxter in his role as a bug exterminator, while he is searching for his friend Jak throughout the game's story. Daxter can perform double jumping and ledge grabbing, can crouch to squeeze through narrow gaps, make use of trampolines to reach higher ledges and ride on ziplines, and make use of vehicles to move around the game world's map. Portals and gateways are encounted within the main environment which lead to locations containing missions that players must complete in order to advance the story.\n\nCombat in the game focuses mainly on melee attacks using an electronic blue eco powered bug-swatter, with players able to perform combo attacks on multiple enemies. After the initial missions, the player gains access to an extermination tank which sprays green eco-based bug spray to stun enemies, with it later able to be upgraded with several new functions, including a jet pack to allow Daxter to fly, a flamethower modification which can improve the effectiveness of the jet pack, and an ultrasonic attachment that shoots blue eco-based high radial damage projectiles. Damage taken from enemies and certain environmental hazards can be recovered by collecting green eco health packs, while the spray tank's supply can be regenerated by absorbing green eco clusters.\n\nTwo forms of collectibles can be found during the game, including Golden Bug-Gems, similar to the Metalhead Gems from the second and third installment of the \"Jak and Daxter\" series, along with the traditional Precursor Orbs, the latter of which can be used to unlock special features. In addition, players can unlock unique items by breaking picture frames found hidden throughout the game, and with a \"Jak X\" game connected to \"Daxter\", can alter the character's goggles and, if the connected save file is 100% complete, a modified Hover Scooter paint scheme.\n\nDuring the course of the game, Daxter can unlock \"Dream Sequences\", a series of five bonus games located in a bedroom behind Osmo's shop and unlocked by collecting Precursor Orbs. These mini-games feature Daxter dreaming himself into various movies as the hero, and on completing them will gain either a new attack ability, a health upgrade or attain gold, website codes or character costume modifications.\n\nThroughout the game, Daxter will occasionally collect 'Combat Bugs', bugs which are used in a combat sport similar to \"rock, paper, scissors\". These bugs can be enhanced by collecting Combat Tokens or potions which are found hidden throughout the levels. The Combat Bug mini-game is not part of the game campaign and is accessed through the game start menu.\n\nThe game takes place in the final months of the 2-year gap presented in the opening of \"Jak II\" (and the aftermath of \"\"), between the moment when Jak is taken prisoner by the Krimzon Guard and the time in which Daxter finally rescues him from the Krimzon Guard Fortress. The introduction shows Jak being captured, while Daxter manages to escape. Almost two years later (having no luck with rescuing Jak), Daxter has forgotten all about finding his friend. An old man named Osmo, whom Daxter meets, hires Daxter as an exterminator working in various parts of Haven City, and occasionally its environs, to exterminate bug-like Metal Heads referred to in-game as 'Metal Bugs'. During his adventures, Daxter meets a mysterious woman named Taryn who, despite being less than impressed by Daxter's interest in her, occasionally helps him.\n\nAfter completing a number of missions for Osmo, Daxter sees Jak in a Prison Zoomer and attempts to chase after it. After being cornered by some Krimzon Guards (who had noticed Daxter's pursuit), Daxter is rescued by Osmo's son Ximon, who assists him with several more missions including one to Baron Praxis' palace where Daxter steals a map of the Fortress, the prison where Jak is being held. After returning to the extermination shop, an arthropod sidekick that Daxter acquired earlier is killed by Kaeden, a bitter man who seemingly wants to steal Osmo's shop, but, in actuality, is working for Kor, the Metal Head leader.\n\nWhen Daxter tries to stop Kaeden from escaping the shop, Kaeden suddenly blows up the shop with a bomb he placed in the shop earlier. Daxter and Osmo survive, and Daxter promises to stop Kaeden, but only after he rescues Jak. Daxter infiltrates the Fortress and finds Kaeden, who reveals himself to be a giant Metal Bug. Daxter manages to defeat Kaeden, who tries to warn him that Kor is waiting outside for them, and then uses a hover platform to begin searching for Jak within the Fortress, leading into the opening cutscene from \"Jak II\". After this, the game cuts to a point later in the timeline at Daxter's Naughty Ottsel Bar, where he is recounting the story to Jak, Keira, Samos, Tess and Taryn.\n\nDaxter received generally positive reviews from critics. IGN gave it a 9/10 and GameSpot gave it a 9.1/10. It has an 86.2% at GameRankings. As of September 3, 2019, the game has sold 4.23 million copies.\n\nDaxter is regarded as one of the PSP's best titles by a number of websites. GamesRadar+ ranked Daxter the 4th best PSP game ever made, calling it “an absolute must-play for the PSP enthusiast.” Kotaku cited it as one of the 12 best PSP games, claiming it's “as funny as it is well-tuned.” Additionally, Digital Trends and TechRadar each listed Daxter among the 10 best PSP games, with the former specifying that “Daxter’s vibrant colors and subtle details inject the game with a ton of flair.”\n"}
{"id": "2136332", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2136332", "title": "Berbice", "text": "Berbice\n\nBerbice is a region along the Berbice River in Guyana, which was between 1627 and 1815 a colony of the Netherlands. After having been ceded to the United Kingdom in the latter year, it was merged with Essequibo and Demerara to form the colony of British Guiana in 1831. In 1966, British Guiana gained independence as Guyana.\n\nAfter being a hereditary fief in the possession of the Van Peere family, the colony was governed by the Society of Berbice in the second half of the colonial period, akin to the neighbouring colony of Suriname, which was governed by the Society of Suriname. The capital of Berbice was at Fort Nassau until 1790. In that year, the town of New Amsterdam, which grew around Fort Sint Andries, was made the new capital of the colony.\n\nBerbice was settled in 1627 by the businessman Abraham van Peere from Vlissingen, under the suzerainty of the Dutch West India Company. Until 1714, the colony remained the personal possession of Van Peere and his descendants. Little is known about the early years of the colony, other than that it succeeded in repelling an English attack in 1665 in the Second Anglo-Dutch War.\n\nApparently some disputes arose between the Second Dutch West India Company, which was founded to succeed the First Dutch West India Company that went bankrupt in 1674, and the Van Peere family. This was resolved when on 14 September 1678 a charter was signed which established Berbice as a hereditary fief of the Dutch West India Company, in the possession of the Van Peere family.\n\nIn November 1712, Berbice was briefly occupied by the French under Jacques Cassard, as part of the War of the Spanish Succession. The Van Peere family did not want to pay a ransom to the French to free the colony, and in order to not let the colony cede to the French, the brothers Nicolaas and Hendrik van Hoorn, Arnold Dix, Pieter Schuurmans, and Cornelis van Peere, paid the ransom on 24 October 1714, thereby acquiring the colony.\n\nIn 1720, the five owners of the colony founded a Society of Berbice, akin to the Society of Suriname which governed the neighbouring colony, to raise more capital for the colony. In the years following, Berbice's economic situation improved, consisting of 12 plantations owned by the society, 93 private plantation along the Berbice River, and 20 plantations along the Canje River.\n\nIn 1733, village which had sprung up around Fort Nassau was named New Amsterdam (Dutch: \"Nieuw Amsterdam\"). The fort and the village were abandoned in 1785 in favour of Fort Sint Andries, situated more downstream, at the confluence of the Canje River. The new village was again named New Amsterdam, and is still known by that name in contemporary Guyana.\n\nThe relatively sound economic situation of the colony was dealt a severe blow when a slave uprising broke out under the leadership of Cuffy in February 1763. The uprising went on until well into 1764, with Cuffy naming himself governor of Berbice. Only with the use of brute force was governor Wolfert Simon van Hoogenheim able to finally suppress the uprising, and restore the colony to Dutch rule.\n\nOn the 19 March 1768, Stephen Henrik de la Saboniere (10 September 1714 – 17 July 1773) took over from Johan Heijlinger as seventh Governor of the Berbice colony and remained governor until 17 July 1773 when he died at Fort Nassau on the Berbice River.\nA close friend and financier of Sabloniere's plantation ambitions was Jan Bantjes (wealthy privateer) and his wife Jacomina Leussen of Kampen. They were financing among other estates the early Demerara sugar plantations. In June 1770 Sabloniere received financing from Bantjes which was repaid in full 31.May 1776. Lending at a rate of 3,5% / annum. Jan Bantjes and Sabloniere were business associates developing new lands. Stephen H. Sabloniere's wife Beata Louisa Schultz also resided at Fort Nassau for a period in 1770 but could not tolerate the heat and returned to Kampen.\n\nOn 27 February 1781, British forces occupied Berbice and neighbouring Demerara and Essequibo as part of the Fourth Anglo-Dutch War, but in January 1782, the colonies were recaptured by the French, who were allied with the Dutch, and who subsequently restored the colonies to Dutch rule with the Treaty of Paris of 1783. The colony was on 22 April 1796 again captured by Britain, however who now remained in possession of the colony until 27 March 1802, when Berbice was restored to the Batavian Republic under the terms of the Treaty of Amiens. In September 1803 the British occupied the territory again, this time for good. In the Anglo-Dutch Treaty of 1814, the colony was formally ceded to the United Kingdom, and with the ratification of this treaty by the Netherlands on 20 November 1815, all Dutch legal claims to the colony were rescinded.\n\nAs part of the reforms of the newly acquired colonies on the South American mainland, the British merged Berbice with Demerara-Essequibo on 21 July 1831, forming the new crown colony of British Guiana, now Guyana.\n\nIn 1838, Berbice was made one of the three counties of Guiana, the other two being Demerara and Essequibo. In 1958, the county was abolished when Guiana was subdivided into districts.\n\n historical Berbice is part of several Guyanese administrative regions and the name is preserved in the regions of East Berbice-Corentyne, Mahaica-Berbice, and Upper Demerara-Berbice.\n\nBerbice Creole Dutch, a Dutch creole language based on the lexicon and grammar of the West African language Ijo, was spoken until well into the 20th century.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2136337", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2136337", "title": "Ian Mahinmi", "text": "Ian Mahinmi\n\nIan Mahinmi (born November 5, 1986) is a French professional basketball player for the Washington Wizards of the National Basketball Association (NBA). At 6'11\" and 250 lb, he plays the center position. He was selected with the 28th overall pick in the 2005 NBA draft by the San Antonio Spurs.\n\nMahinmi was born to a Beninese father who helped other Africans immigrate to France and a Jamaican mother who taught in a preschool. Mahinmi preferred playing soccer as a child along with his older brother, but eventually switched to playing basketball. He was 6 feet tall when he was 14 years old.\n\nMahinmi made his impression on international scouts at the 2004 Under-18 European Championships in Zaragoza, Spain. It was there that he first caught the attention of international scouts, including San Antonio Spurs scout Sam Presti. After playing with the French national team he signed his first contract with the club STB Le Havre (France). He played three seasons with Le Havre, averaging 9.7 points and 5.2 rebounds per game in 2005–06.\n\nIn the summer of 2006, he signed a contract to play for Pau Orthez in France's top professional league. He averaged 4.3 points and 3.2 rebounds in 12.7 minutes in the 2006–07 season, helping the team win the French Cup.\n\nMahinmi was selected 28th overall in the 2005 NBA draft by the San Antonio Spurs, which surprised many other teams and league officials because he wasn't among the 128 players listed in the league's draft guide. Mahinmi was considered a \"project\" that would be a couple of years from competing in the NBA. The Spurs' interest in Mahinmi related to their need for an athletic big man since David Robinson retired. Playing for the Spurs' 2006 summer-league team at Rocky Mountain Revue, Mahinmi demonstrated his athleticism, but had difficulty maintaining rebounding or post position without fouling. After Mahinmi moved to Pau Orthez, which had a more developed strength and nutrition program than the one at Le Havre, the Spurs also began to send a strength coach to monitor his progress.\n\nDuring the 2007 Summer League, Mahinmi tore his right pectoralis minor shortly after the start of play. Despite this setback, he was signed by the Spurs on August 23, 2007. On October 30, 2007, Mahinmi made his NBA debut with the Spurs against the Portland Trail Blazers, playing only 74 seconds and registering no statistics. Mahinmi played for the Austin Toros, the Spurs' affiliate in the NBA Development League, by November. Mahinmi averaged 17.1 points and 8.2 rebounds in the NBA Development League, leading the Austin Toros to the D-League Finals in which they lost.\n\nMahinmi signed with the Dallas Mavericks on July 13, 2010. On December 7, 2010, against the Golden State Warriors, Mahinmi recorded his first career double-double (12 points and 10 rebounds in 21 minutes). On January 15, 2011, Mahinmi scored a career high 17 points in a loss to the Memphis Grizzlies, going 6-6 from the floor and 5-6 from the free throw line while collecting 6 rebounds. On March 20, 2011, Mahinmi collected a career-high 13 rebounds and 9 points after playing 20 minutes in the 101-73 win over the Golden State Warriors.\n\nOn June 12, 2011, in game 6 of the NBA Finals against the Miami Heat with Dallas leading the series 3–2, Mahinmi collected a crucial offensive rebound in the closing seconds of the 3rd quarter before hitting a buzzer beater shot to further extend the Mavericks lead. Dallas went on to win the game 105–95 and Mahinmi won his first NBA championship with the Dallas Mavericks.\n\nDuring the 2011 NBA lockout, Mahinmi played four games for STB Le Havre. In December 2011, he returned to the Mavericks. He scored a career high 19 points on December 30, 2011, in a game against the Toronto Raptors as the Mavericks won their first game of the 2011–12 season. Mahinmi went 6-6 from the floor and 7-11 from the free throw line while collecting 5 rebounds.\n\nMahinmi recorded his first career start in a 95-86 loss to the Oklahoma City Thunder.\n\nOn July 12, 2012, Mahinmi was traded to the Indiana Pacers in exchange for Darren Collison and Dahntay Jones.\n\nIn his 2014-15 year with the Indiana Pacers, Ian recorded the lowest free throw percentage in the history of the NBA, with a percentage of 30.49%. As a result, Mahinmi almost never played in the fourth quarter as teams would intentionally foul him to get extra possessions and limiting the Pacers’ Offensive rating.\n\nOn February 19, 2016, Mahinmi matched a career high with 19 points and grabbed 11 rebounds in a 101–98 win over the Oklahoma City Thunder. On March 4, 2016, Mahinmi led the Pacers with a career-high 14 rebounds and 10 points in 32 minutes in a 101-108 loss to the Charlotte Hornets. On March 27, 2016, Mahinmi helped the Pacers defeat the Houston Rockets, tying a career-high 19 points and 11 rebounds in a 104-101 win. In Game 4 of the Pacers' 2016 first-round playoff series against the Toronto Raptors, Mahinmi scored a career-high 22 points, while his 10 rebounds and five assists were both playoff career bests, as he helped the Pacers tie the series at 2–2 with a 100–83 win. In his final season with Indiana, Mahinmi recorded career highs in points (9.3), rebounds (7.1), and blocks per game (1.1).\n\nOn July 7, 2016, Mahinmi signed a four-year, $64 million contract with the Washington Wizards. On October 15, 2016, he was ruled out for four to six weeks after suffering a partially torn medial meniscus in his left knee. He made his debut for the Wizards on November 26, 2016 against the San Antonio Spurs after missing the first 14 games of the season while recovering from left knee surgery. He was deactivated following this game, and on December 20, he was ruled out for another six weeks after requiring more treatment on his knees. On February 8, 2017 against Brooklyn, Mahinmi played in only his second game of the season and scored his first points. On March 7, 2017, he had a career-high seven steals in a 131–127 win over the Phoenix Suns. On March 17, 2017, he had a season-high 16 points in a 112–107 win over the Chicago Bulls. On April 12, 2017, he was ruled out for the start of the postseason with a strained left calf. He returned to action in Game 3 of the Wizards' second-round series against the Boston Celtics.\n\nMahinmi and his wife, Alexis, have two daughters, Camille and Axelle.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2136339", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2136339", "title": "Market participant", "text": "Market participant\n\nThe term market participant is another term for economic agent, an actor and more specifically a decision maker in a model of some aspect of the economy. For example, \"buyers\" and \"sellers\" are two common types of agents in partial equilibrium models of a single market. The term market participant is also used in United States constitutional law to describe a U.S. State which is acting as a producer or supplier of a marketable good or service.\n\nWhen a state is acting in such a role, it may permissibly discriminate against non-residents. This principle was established by the United States Supreme Court in \"Reeves, Inc. v. Stake\", 447 U.S. 429 (1980), in which the Court upheld South Dakota's right to give South Dakota residents preferential treatment in the purchase of cement produced at a cement plant owned and operated by the state.\n\n\"Nothing in the purposes animating the Commerce Clause prohibits a State, in the absence of congressional action, from participating in the market and exercising the right to favor its own citizens over others.\" \"Hughes v. Alexandria Scrap Corp.\", 426 U.S. 794 (1976).\n\nIn Reeves, 447 U.S. 429 (1980), the Court relied upon \"the long recognized right of trader or manufacturer, engaged in an entirely private business, freely to exercise his own independent discretion as to parties with whom he will deal.\"\n\n\"There are some limits on a state or local government's ability to impose restrictions that reach beyond the immediate parties with which the government transacts business.\" \"White v. Massachusetts Council of Construction Employers, Inc.\", 460 U.S. 204 (1983).\n\n\"The limit on the Market Participant Exception is that it allows a State to impose burdens on commerce within the market in which it is a participant but allows it to go no further. The State may not impose conditions, whether by statute, regulation, or contract, that have a substantial regulatory effect outside of that particular market.\" \"South-Central Timber Development, Inc. v. Wunnicke\", 467 U.S. 82 (1984). \"Downstream restrictions have a greater regulatory effect than do limitations on the immediate transaction. The State may not avail itself of the market-participant doctrine to immunize its downstream regulation of a market it is not actually a participant.\" Id.\n\nThe most ubiquitous example of a service offered by the individual states is the operation of public universities. Because the provision of higher education is deemed not to be a fundamental right, the individual states that have universities may charge higher tuition to out-of-state students.\n\nBy contrast, discriminatory practices in the provision of essential public services, such as welfare, police protection, and primary education, would violate the Privileges and Immunities Clause, and discriminatory practices when the state is acting as regulator rather than market participant would violate the dormant commerce clause.\n\nIn finance, market participants are traders or investors who buy and sell securities or commodities in a structured market.\n"}
{"id": "2136342", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2136342", "title": "Pix", "text": "Pix\n\nPix or PIX may refer to:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2136343", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2136343", "title": "Restraining Acts 1775", "text": "Restraining Acts 1775\n\nThe Restraining Acts of early 1775 were two Acts passed by the Parliament of Great Britain, which limited colonial trade in response to both increasing and spreading civil disobedience in Massachusetts and New England, and similar trade restrictions instituted by elected colonial representatives. With time the foment would spread to most of its American Colonies. The first restraining act, (15 Geo. III c. 10) known variously as the New England Trade And Fisheries Act, the New England Restraining Act, or the Trade Act 1775 (c.10), limited the export and import of any goods to and from only Great Britain, Ireland, and the British West Indies; it also prohibited the New England colonies from fishing in the waters off Newfoundland and most of America's Atlantic coast, without special permissions and documentation, and imposed stiff penalties on both perpetrators and administrators if violations occurred. Previously legal or finessed trade between the colonies themselves or with other nations was prohibited, and enforced by naval blockade, effective July 1, 1775. The second restraining act, (15 Geo. III c. 18) known as the Trade Act 1775 (c.18), similarly limited the export or import of any goods by way of only Great Britain, Ireland, and the British West Indies for most colonies south of New England; it was passed shortly after the first, upon receiving news in April that the colonial's trade boycott had spread widely among other colonies. Only New York, Delaware, North Carolina and Georgia would escape these restraints on trade, but only for a few months.\n\nThe Restraining Acts were passed one year after the first of the Intolerable Acts had been imposed to show the potential of tighter British sovereignty over Boston, and Massachusetts, and threatened the same treatment in other colonies generally. Instead of quieting the populace, these coercive laws had been met with increasing resistance and rising resentment among the colonials. Over this same period the colonies established independent communications, and the First Continental Congress established the colonial's boycott to restrain the import of British goods then the export of colonial products, which caused disruption in British trade and revenues and shortages in the colonies themselves. Additionally, the colonies had established alternative legislatures in defiance of established ones under direct imperial control. The growing defiance caused a mutual scramble for munitions and treasonous acts to obtain them, indicating that more violence was on the horizon. News arriving about the first restraining act, and related actions of the Massachusetts military governor would lead directly to the first military confrontation in the American Revolutionary War.\n\nWith fighting started, any possible reconciliation became moot, and the King would issue his Royal Proclamation of Rebellion in August. In December 1775 Parliament passed the Prohibitory Act prohibiting any trade with all the colonies, and enforcing it with a tighter blockade and more severe penalties; it was a declaration of economic war, with inbound or outbound ships, mariners and cargoes treated as if they \"were the ships and effects of open enemies ... [to be] so adjudged, deemed, and taken, in all courts.\" With this drastic change in British tactics, effective January 1, 1776, the two Restraining Acts as well as the Boston Port Act were repealed, \"whereas the prohibitions and restraints imposed by the said acts will be rendered unnecessary by the provisions of this act.\"\n\nThe province of Massachusetts Bay was in a state of crisis following the passage of the Coercive Acts in 1774. When colonists formed the extra-legal Massachusetts Provincial Congress and began organizing militia units independent of British control, Parliament responded on February 9, 1775, by declaring that Massachusetts was in a state of rebellion.\n\nThe joint resolution of Parliament read, in part:\n\nOne of the Coercive Acts, the Boston Port Act, had cut off Boston's trade; this blockade was now extended to all of Massachusetts.\n\nThe North ministry next turned its attention to New England generally. The New England Restraining Act (short title: New England Trade And Fisheries Act, 15 Geo. III c. 10) was the ministry's response to the American colonies' decision to boycott British goods, as embodied in the Continental Association of 1774. It was given royal assent by George III on March 30, 1775. The Act provided that New England's trade be limited to Britain and the British West Indies (trade with other nations was prohibited, effective July 1, 1775). Moreover, New England ships were barred from the North Atlantic fisheries (a measure that pleased British Canadians, but threatened considerable harm to New England's economy), effective July 20, 1775.\n\nIn April 1775, after news was received in London that colonies outside of New England had joined the Continental Association, a second restraining Act was passed to include the colonies of Pennsylvania, New Jersey, Virginia, Maryland and South Carolina. New York, Delaware, North Carolina, and Georgia were not included because the North ministry mistakenly believed that those colonies were opposed to the colonial boycott.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2136345", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2136345", "title": "Division of Phillip", "text": "Division of Phillip\n\nThe Division of Phillip was an Australian Electoral Division in the state of New South Wales. It was located in the Sydney's eastern suburbs, and was named after Captain Arthur Phillip, captain of the First Fleet and first Governor of New South Wales. The Division included the suburbs of Bondi, Coogee, Kensington and Randwick.\n\nThe Division was proclaimed at the redistribution of 11 May 1949, and was first contested at the 1949 Federal election. It was abolished prior to the 1993 Federal election. It was a marginal seat that from 1963 onward was held by the governing party of the day.\n"}
{"id": "2136347", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2136347", "title": "Bathford", "text": "Bathford\n\nBathford (pronounced with the emphasis on the second syllable) is a village and civil parish east of Bath, England. The parish, which includes Warleigh, has a population of 1,759 and extends over .\n\nThe ancient charter \"Codex Diplomaticus Aevi Saxonici\" describes a manor parish consisting of three tithings or quasi manors: Bathford in the centre, Shockerwick to the north, and Warley [Warleigh] to the south. This corresponds closely to the current boundaries. This manor was known as \"Forde\" up until the seventeenth century; the name was derived from the ford that crosses the By Brook, connecting Bathford to neighbouring Bathampton.\n\nNear the river crossing is the site of a Roman villa, the hypocaust of which was found about the middle of the seventeenth century. This villa is described in John Aubrey's \"Monumenta Britannica\":\n\nThe ford from which the village derived its name was connected with the Fosse Way. This is mentioned in a Saxon charter of the tenth century relating to the manor. The Fosse Way stills forms the boundary of the parish.\n\nBathford was part of the hundred of Bath Forum.\n\nThe old Bathford railway bridge was built by Isambard Kingdom Brunel as part of the Great Western Railway. A station called Bathford Halt closed in 1965.\n\nNear Bathford, on the opposite side of the river, is a large meadow known as \"Horselands\" where, according to tradition, the Roman cavalry were exercised. More recently, the area bounded by Ostlings Lane and the Bradford Road (A363) was used to keep the spare horses used to haul the mail coaches up Bathford Hill. They then returned to the field to await the next coach. Some older long-standing residents of Bathford still refer to Ostlings Lane as \"Horses Lane\". Whether the two areas are related is somewhat uncertain.\n\nBathford has been formally twinned with Artannes-sur-Indre in France since October 2005.\n\nThe parish council has responsibility for local issues, including setting an annual precept (local rate) to cover the council's operating costs and producing annual accounts for public scrutiny. The parish council evaluates local planning applications and works with the local police, district council officers, and neighbourhood watch groups on matters of crime, security, and traffic. The parish council's role also includes initiating projects for the maintenance and repair of parish facilities, such as the village hall or community centre, playing fields and playgrounds, as well as consulting with the district council on the maintenance, repair, and improvement of highways, drainage, footpaths, public transport, and street cleaning. Conservation matters (including trees and listed buildings) and environmental issues are also of interest to the council.\n\nThe parish falls within the unitary authority of Bath and North East Somerset which was created in 1996, as established by the Local Government Act 1992. It provides a single tier of local government with responsibility for almost all local government functions within its area including local planning and building control, local roads, council housing, environmental health, markets and fairs, refuse collection, recycling, cemeteries, crematoria, leisure services, parks, and tourism. It is also responsible for education, social services, libraries, main roads, public transport, trading standards, waste disposal and strategic planning, although fire, police and ambulance services are provided jointly with other authorities through the Avon Fire and Rescue Service, Avon and Somerset Constabulary and the Great Western Ambulance Service.\n\nBath and North East Somerset's area covers part of the ceremonial county of Somerset but it is administered independently of the non-metropolitan county. Its administrative headquarters is in Bath. Between 1 April 1974 and 1 April 1996, it was the Wansdyke district and the City of Bath of the county of Avon. Before 1974 that the parish was part of the Bathavon Rural District.\n\nThe parish is represented in the House of Commons of the Parliament of the United Kingdom as part of North East Somerset. It elects one Member of Parliament (MP) by the first past the post system of election. It is also part of the South West England constituency of the European Parliament which elects seven MEPs using the d'Hondt method of party-list proportional representation.\n\nThe old walled village of Bathford is located on the A363, approximately one kilometre south of the A4. Bathford Bridge is where the A363 crosses the By Brook (aka Box Brook, The Weaver and Withy Brook). The original bridge was built in the thirteenth or fourteenth century to replace the ford which gave the village its name.\n\nBathford extends up one side of the Avonvale Valley. There are several routes up to the valley ridge, which was once the site of active stone quarrying. This ridge offers commanding views of the valley below and also of nearby Solsbury Hill.\n\nShockerwick House was built as a country house around 1750 by John Wood the Elder and is now offices and a nursing home. It has been designated as a Grade I listed building.\n\nSt Swithun's Church, parts of which may date from the twelfth century, is the resting place of Admiral Lord Nelson's sister, Ann. The church has Romanesque origins and the dedication to St. Swithun is thought to have been in 1323 AD.\n\nThe north aisle and porch were added in 1856, the south aisle and nave in 1870–72 and the west tower between 1879 and 1880.\n\nBathford has had an annual music festival, known as Bathford Summer Festival, since 2008. An annual flower show usually takes place in early September.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2136352", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2136352", "title": "Toa Payoh MRT station", "text": "Toa Payoh MRT station\n\nToa Payoh MRT station (NS19) is an underground Mass Rapid Transit (MRT) station on the North South line in Toa Payoh, Singapore. Located within the town centre of Toa Payoh near the junction of Lorong 1 Toa Payoh, Lorong 2 Toa Payoh and Lorong 6 Toa Payoh, this station is connected to Toa Payoh Bus Interchange and the HDB Hub.\n\nOpened on 7 November 1987 as the former southern terminus of the North South line, it is the oldest station on the Singapore MRT. It is one of two stations serving the Toa Payoh housing estate (the other being Braddell) and is a transport node for residents of Toa Payoh New Town.\n\nThe station was featured in the \"Uniquely Singapore Edition\" of the board game \"Monopoly\".\n\nToa Payoh MRT station was awarded to Tobishima-Takenaka Joint Venture under Contract 104 on September 1983, together with Novena station and tunnels to Newton. Toa Payoh was the first MRT station in Singapore to be completed, topping out on 5 August 1985, and is the first underground station in the world to be fitted with platform screen doors. This station was among the first phase of MRT stations, from Toa Payoh to Yio Chu Kang, to be opened in Singapore on 7 November 1987. Today, the concourse area bears the inauguration plate of Singapore's MRT system.\n\nThis station was one of four MRT stations which participated in Exercise Northstar V, a mock terrorist exercise held on 8 January 2006.\n"}
{"id": "2136358", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2136358", "title": "Benkestok (noble family)", "text": "Benkestok (noble family)\n\nBenkestok (\"Benkestokk\", \"Benchestoch\" et cetera) is one of the original noble families of Norway and one of the few to survive the Middle Ages. At the height of its power, the family ruled large estates in Båhuslen (today a part of Sweden), in Western Norway, in Northern Norway, in the Faroe Islands, and in Shetland.\n\nThe family's progenitor is Tord Benkestok, who lived in Strand in Forshälla, Bohuslän, then a part of Norway. He was in the end of the 14th century mentioned in the Church Property Register by Øystein Aslaksson, Bishop of Oslo.\n\nThe family was married with members of other old families, among others Smør, Galte and Kane. The legendary ancestral father was Gaut at Ænes in Hardanger, born circa 1100. He was a lendmann (baron), and his son Jon Gautsson was a lendmann in the service of Magnus Erlingsson. The Benkestok family was allegedly the eighth generation descending patrilineally from Gaut.\n\nJon Tordsson Benkestok was the first known family member to move to Norway's largest and most important city at the time, Bergen. In a document of 1435, he was called \"Jon Þordasson Benkiastok\" when serving as a Judge of Peace.\n\nTrond Tordsson Benkestok of Talgøy was in 1444 mentioned as he attended the Council of the Kingdom. On 4 December, he took part in a council meeting in Copenhagen, where a ruling by King Christopher on the right of Hanseatic merchants in Norway was confirmed. At the meeting, only twelve council members were present; five Lords of the Church and seven Lords of the Realm, of which Trond Benkestok was number six and with the title of knight. Trond, then in his late 20s, probably represented the Lord of Bohuslän, who was not present at the meeting. In 1472, he was still a knight and mentioned as a Judge of Peace at a court session in Trondheim concerning an inheritance.\n\nLater members of the family lived in Ryfylke, where Talgøy in Sjørnarøyane and Haraldseid at Skjold were their seat farms, as well as at Jordanger in Sogn. A family member moved north to Meløya Farm in Meløy, Nordland, which marked the beginning of the expansion of the family in Northern Norway.\nIn July 1532, King Christian II was arrested and imprisoned in Copenhagen. Trond Torleivsson Benkestok actively supported Johan Kruckow, who wanted Frederik I on the Danish and the Norwegian throne. Trond was later a knight. Claus Bille describes him as the ‘most respected and wise nobleman north of the mountains’. Trond was probably a supporter of the Roman Catholicism until the last Catholic archbishop, Olav Engelbrektsson, in 1537 fled the country.\n\nTrond's oldest son, Jon Trondson Benkestok of Meløy (1530–ca. 1593), was a signatory when the Norwegian nobility in 1591 paid homage to King Christian IV at Akershus Castle. He signed the document using a signet ring with the family's arms.\n\nDue to Jon Benkestok's marriage to a so-called unfree woman, Birgitte Nilsdotter, their children lost their noble status. Known children were Torolf († 1622; without children), Anders († after 1630; married, no known children), Trond († 1626; had a daughter), Johan (had a daughter), Tord, Christopher († after 1618; had two sons), Niels († after 1599), Anna († after 1599), and Margrethe Benkestok (several descendants). Trond Benkestok had the daughter Ermegaard Benkestok († 1696), who had descendants. Johan Benkestok had the daughter Anna Benkestok, who was married. Christopher Benkestok had presumptively two sons: Jens Christophersen Benkestok († after 1665) and Anders Benkestok († 1672). The two brothers were the last known male members of the family.\n\nThe younger Benkestok family was formed by Gunder Amundsen Benkestok and his children. He was a son of Ermegaard Benkestok's daughter Magdalena Jonsdatter. Gunder Benkestok arranged in 1753 on a voyage to Copenhagen, where he attempted to receive noble status for his family based on his cognatic descent from the old Benkestoks. However, he did not succeed. Additionally, another cognatic descendant, Jon Gundersen Benkestok, a first cousin of Gunder Benkestok, used this name.\n\nThe origin of the family's name, allegedly meaning ‘tree-trunk seat’, has not been established. According to a myth, the family's founding father saved the King of Norway from Swedish soldiers by hiding him in a wooden bench, wherefore he was rewarded with noble status, name, and arms.\n\nThe family's coat of arms is divided per pale. The dexter field has on a background Azure a half lily Argent. The sinister field is divided party per bend, where the lower part is Argent and the upper part is Azure. Being reminiscent of a tree trunk, the latter is probably an allusion to the family name.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2136363", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2136363", "title": "Khadi", "text": "Khadi\n\nKhadi (IAST: ) is a hand-woven natural fiber cloth originating from eastern regions of the Indian subcontinent, mainly Eastern India, Northeastern India and Bangladesh, but are now broadly used in Pakistan and throughout India. This fabric is made mainly of cotton.\n\nThe cloth is usually woven from cotton and may also include silk or wool, which are all spun into yarn on a spinning wheel called a \"charkha\". It is a versatile fabric, cool in summer and warm in winter. In order to improve the look, khādī/khaddar is sometimes starched to give it a stiffer feel. It is widely accepted in fashion circles. Khadi is being promoted in India by Khadi and Village Industries Commission, Ministry of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises.\n\nKhadi is also known as khaddar. It is usually referred to a rough textured fabric. \n\nIn India, Khadi refers to handwoven and hand spun cloth. Weavers prefer the yarn produced by Mills because it is more robust and of consistent quality. Swadeshi movement of boycotting English products during the first two decades of the twentieth Century was popularised by Mahatma Gandhi and Indian mill owners, backed Nationalist politicians, who called for a boycott of foreign cloth. Gandhi argued that the mill owners would deny handloom weavers an opportunity to buy yarn because they would prefer to create a monopoly for their own cloth. However, handspun yarn was of poor quality and too costly. Thus Mahatma Gandhi started spinning himself and encouraging others to do so. He made it obligatory for all members of the Indian National Congress to spin cotton themselves and to pay their dues in yarn. He further made the chakri (spinning wheel) the symbol of the Nationalist movement. Initially the Indian flag was supposed to have a chakri, not the Ashoka Chakra at its centre. Mahatma Gandhi collected large sums of money to create a grass-roots organisation to encourage handloom weaving. This was called 'khaddar' or 'Khadi' movement.\n\nThe British Raj was selling very high cost cloths to the Indians. The Indian mill owners wanted to monopolise the Indian market themselves. Ever since the American Civil War had caused a shortage of American cotton, Britain would buy cotton from India at cheap prices and use the cotton to manufacture cloth. The khadi movement by Gandhi aimed at boycotting foreign cloth. Mahatma Gandhi began promoting the spinning of khadi for rural self-employment and self-reliance (instead of using cloth manufactured industrially in Britain) in the 1920s in India, thus making khadi an integral part and an icon of the Swadeshi movement.\n\nThe freedom struggle revolved around the use of khādī fabrics and the dumping of foreign-made clothes. When some people complained about the costliness of khadi to Mahatma Gandhi, he started wearing only dhoti though he used wool shawls when it got cold. Some were able to make a reasonable living by using high quality mill yarn and catering to the luxury market. Mahatma Gandhi tried to put an end to this practice. He even threatened to give up khadi altogether if he didn't get his way. However, since the weavers would have starved if they listened to Gandhi, nothing came of this threat.\n\nIn 2017, a total of 460,000 people were employed in industries making khadi products. Production and sales rose by 31.6% and 33% in 2017 over the 2016 figures after the multi-spindle charkas were introduced to enhance the productivity by replacing the single-spindle charkas. In 2019 it was reported that overall khadi sales in India have risen by 28% in the 5 period preceding 2018-2019. The revenues from Khadi in the last financial year have been 3215 crores and the KVIC has set a target of 5000 crore by 2020. Various states have boards and/or cooperative societies for the khadi production, promotion, sales and marketing, such as Haryana Khadi and Village Industries Board, Andhra Pradesh State Handloom Weavers Cooperative Society, Gujarat State Handloom and Handicrafts Development Corporation Ltd, Jharkhand Silk Textile and Handicraft Development Corporation, and Tamil Nadu Handloom Weavers' Cooperative Society. Additionally, several institutes are involved in the research and training in this area, such as Indian Institute of Handloom Technology, Indian Institute of Handloom Technology, Champa and Institute of Handloom and Textile Technology. Handicrafts and Handlooms Export Corporation of India is focused on popularising khadi overseas. NGOs involved in khadi are Rehwa Society.\n\nPopular products being khadi cloth for tailoring various dresses such as dhoti and kurta, handloom saree such as Puttapaka Saree, Kotpad Handloom fabrics, Chamba Rumal, Tussar silk, etc. Gajam Anjaiah, an Indian master handloom designer and recipient of Padma Shri honor, is known for his innovations and developments of tie-dye handloom products along with Telia Rumal technique of weaving products based on Ikat process.\n\nAfter Independence, the Government reserved some types of textile production, e.g. towel manufacture for the handloom sector, which resulted in a deskilling of traditional weavers and a boost for the power loom sector. Private Sector enterprises have been able to make handloom weaving somewhat remunerative and the government also continues to promote the use of Khadi through various initiatives.\n\nPrime Minister Narendra Modi asserted that khadi cloth is a movement to help the poor. He further highlighted that the \"Khadi and Village Industries Commission\" is a statutory organisation engaged in promoting and developing khadi and village industries. He lauded that Gujarat and Rajasthan are well known for khadi poly, while Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, and Jammu and Kashmir are known for the woolen khadi.\n\nKhadi, also known as \"khaddar\" has a long history in Bangladesh. In the 6th century a local variation of Khadi cloth was described by Huen Tsang of China and Marco Polo in the 12th century AD describes a fabrics, most probably khadi Muslin in the Bengal region to be as fine as the spider's web.\n\nRomans were great aficionados of Bengal khadi Muslin and imported vast amounts of fabrics. The khadi weaves of Comilla during the Mughal period were renowned as valuable textiles with distinctive characteristics.\n\nDuring the years of the Indian self-rule movement and later with the independence of Bangladesh the spirit of khadi was driven with the winds of change. In 1921, Gandhi came to Chandina Upazila in comilla to inspire the local weavers and consequently a branch of 'Nikhil Bharat Tantubai Samity' was established to self-seed and proliferate the sale of goods to other major cities in India.\n\nIn greater Comilla region, the weaving centers were particularly developed in Mainamati, Muradnagar, Gauripur and Chandina.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2136367", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2136367", "title": "Hawawir people", "text": "Hawawir people\n\nThe Hawawir are an African people of Semitic origin, dwelling in the Bayuda Desert, Sudan. They are found along the road from Debba to Khartum as far as Bir Gamr, and from Ambigol to Wadi Bishhra. They have adopted none of the African customs, such as gashing the cheeks or elaborate hairdressing. They own large herds of oxen, sheep and camels.\n"}
{"id": "2136385", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2136385", "title": "Lethiscus", "text": "Lethiscus\n\nLethiscus is the earliest known representative of the Aistopoda, a group of very specialised snake-like amphibians known from the early Carboniferous (Mississippian).\n\n\"Lethiscus\" is known from only a single specimen from the Holkerian Stage (Middle Viséan) of the Early Carboniferous (Middle Mississippian) of Scotland, and is one of the oldest known post Devonian tetrapods. Despite its very early date, it was already a highly advanced animal.\n\nThe skull is specialised and light, very like that of \"Ophiderpeton\", with the orbits, far forward, and the cheek region unossified (lacking bone). There are approximately 30 closely spaced teeth on the maxilla and dentary, and a sutural pattern of the skull closely resembles that of the Late Carboniferous aïstopod \"Oestocephalus\".\n\nThere is no trace of limbs. However, unlike later members of the aïstopod lineage, the vertebrae still possess intercentra, and the pleurocentra are large.\n\n\"Lethiscus\" is the only representative of the family Lethiscidae. Owing to its early date, it has since its discovery been considered ancestral to later aïstopods, and more recent cladistic research (Anderson \"et al.\" 2003) confirms its position as the most basal (primitive) aistopod. A 2017 cladistic analysis incorporated new data on \"Lethiscus\" found all aïstopods, including \"Lethiscus\", to be stem-tetrapods, rendering Lepospondyli polyphyletic.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2136389", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2136389", "title": "Benjamin M. Friedman", "text": "Benjamin M. Friedman\n\nBenjamin Morton Friedman (; born 1944) is a leading American political economist. Friedman is the William Joseph Maier Professor of Political Economy at Harvard University. He is a member of the Council on Foreign Relations, the Brookings Institute's Panel on Economic Activity, and the editorial board of the \"Encyclopædia Britannica\". He is a recipient of the John R. Commons Award, given by the economics honor society Omicron Delta Epsilon.\n\nFriedman received his A.B., A.M., and Ph.D. degrees, all in economics, from Harvard University. He also received an M.Sc. in economics and politics from King's College, Cambridge as a Marshall Scholar. He has been on the Harvard faculty since 1972. Currently Friedman is a member of the Committee on Capital Markets Regulation.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2136397", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2136397", "title": "Skellow", "text": "Skellow\n\nSkellow is a village in rural South Yorkshire part of the Metropolitan Borough of Doncaster, England. Historically part of the West Riding of Yorkshire, the village is roughly six miles north-north west of Doncaster. The village falls in the Askern Spa Ward of Doncaster MBC. To the north and south is mixed farmland, the A1 runs immediately along the western edge of the village, and to the east Skellow merges with the adjacent village of Carcroft along the B1220.\n\nThe village derives its name from the River Skell which flows from the nearby village of Skelbrooke, through the locally named 'Five Lanes End' area of Skellow where it joins the Ea Beck, a tributary of the River Don, of which it joins near the former Thorpe Marsh Power Station at Barnby Dun. The village lies on the north side of the east-west Ea Beck valley. To the north-east with access from the village is Burghwallis.\n\nSkellow is well served for open public spaces, with a range of small and medium-sized parks scattered through both the modern housing estates to the west and the older former council estates which border Carcroft. Today most of the western half of Skellow is occupied by a patchwork of late 20th century housing estates.\n\nDuring the English Civil War, Cromwell placed a cannon battery at the village to protect the Great North Road. The mounds for the cannon still remain and the surrounding area of cottages and 15th century inn (now known as the 'Bridge House') remain to this day.\n\nOn the east bank of the Skell lies old Skellow, a cluster of older houses facing Skellow Hall. The hall was originally built in 1642 and is now in use as a residential care home for the elderly.\n\nGodfrey Higgins was the son of the owner of much of the land, known as Skellow Grange, of what is now Skellow village.\n\nThe church of Saint Michael located in the village is a sister church to the nearby Grade I listed All Saints, Owston.\n\nFurther east is a sizeable former council housing estate which is in a generally good state of repair, and a good example of the coal mining related social housing developments typical of southern part of the West Riding in the early to mid-20th century. This area is the heart of the village, containing most of the local amenities including various shops and the local primary school. Several local clubs exist on the sites of former working men's clubs, and the area has an active local nightlife including live music events.\n\nCoal mining in the area ceased in the 1980s but some remnants from the industry are visible in the area, including winding wheel relics at Bullcroft. Demographic evidence of the former mining community is also evident in both higher than average levels of unemployment, and a strong sense of community with residents knowing their neighbours and those that live around them.\n\n"}
{"id": "2136398", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2136398", "title": "Khadi and Village Industries Commission", "text": "Khadi and Village Industries Commission\n\nThe Khadi and Village Industries Commission (KVIC) is a statutory body formed in April 1957 (as per an RTI) by the Government of India, under the Act of Parliament, 'Khadi and Village Industries Commission Act of 1956'. It is an apex organisation under the Ministry of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises, with regard to khadi and village industries within India, which seeks to - \"plan, promote, facilitate, organise and assist in the establishment and development of khadi and village industries in the rural areas in coordination with other agencies engaged in rural development wherever necessary.\" In April 1957, it took over the work of former All India Khadi and Village Industries Board. \nIts head office is in Mumbai , whereas its six zonal offices in Delhi, Bhopal, Bangalore, Kolkata, Mumbai and Guwahati. Other than its zonal offices, it has offices in 28 states for the implementation of its various programmes\n\n\"\"The livery of freedom\"\" – Mahatma Gandhi\n\nKhadi, (pronounced Khādī) refers to hand-spun and hand-woven cloth. The raw materials may be cotton, silk, or wool, which are spun into threads on a charkha (a traditional spinning implement).\n\nKhadi was launched in 1920 as a political weapon in the Swadeshi movement of Mahatma Gandhi.\n\nKhadi is sourced from different parts of India, depending upon its raw materials - While the silk variety is sourced from West Bengal, Bihar, Odisha and North Eastern states, the cotton variety comes from Andhra Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and West Bengal. Khadi poly is spun in Gujarat and Rajasthan while Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and Jammu and Kashmir karnataka are known for the woolen variety.\n\nThere are a wide range of Khadi personal care products manufactured in Uttarakhand Khadi Products - Handmade and Natural\n\nAny Industry that is located within a rural area, where the Fixed Capital Investment per Artisan (weaver) does not exceed Rupees One hundred thousand\nThe Fixed Capital Investment can be changed by the Central Government of India whenever it so requires.\n\nThe common characteristic found in both - Khadi and Village Industries is that they are labour intensive in nature. In the wake of industrialisation, and the mechanisation of almost all processes, Khadi and Village industries are suited like no other to a labour surplus country like India.\n\nAnother advantage of Khadi and Village Industries is that they require little or no capital to set up, thereby making them an economically viable option for the rural poor. This is an important point with reference to India in view of its stark income, regional and rural/urban inequalities.\n\nThe Commission has three main objectives which guide its functioning. These are -\n\n\nThe commission seeks to achieve these objectives by implementing and monitoring various schemes and programs.\n\nThe process of Implementation of schemes and programs starts at the Ministry of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises which is the administrative head of the programs. The Ministry receives funds from the Central Government of India, and routes these to the Khadi and Village Industries Commission for the implementation of programs and schemes related to Khadi and Village Industries.\n\nThe Khadi and Village Industries Commission then uses these funds to implement its programs either directly - Through its 29 state offices, by directly funding Khadi and Village institutions and co-operatives, or indirectly through 33 Khadi and Village Industries Boards, which are statutory bodies formed by the state governments within India, set up for the purpose of promoting Khadi and Village Industries in their respective states. The Khadi and Village Industries Boards, in turn, fund Khadi and Village Institutions/Co-operatives/Entrepreneurs.\n\nAt present the developmental programmes of the commission are executed through, 5600 registered institutions, 30,138 Cooperative societies and about 9485,000 people.\n\nThe Prime Minister's Employment Generation Programme (PMEGP) the result of the merger of two schemes - Prime Minister's Rojgar Yojana (PMRY) and The Rural Employment Generation Programme (REGP).\n\nRural beneficiaries receive up to a 25% margin compensation in rural areas and 15% in urban areas for the general category and 35% in rural areas and 25% in urban areas for SCs, STs, OBCs, minorities and women among other special categories.\n\nThe Interest Subsidy Eligibility Certificate (ISEC) Scheme is the major source of funding for the Khadi programme. It was introduced in May 1977 to mobilise funds from banking institutions to fill the gap in the actual fund requirement and its availability from budgetary sources.\n\nUnder this scheme, loans are provided by the banks to the members to meet their working/fixed capital requirements. These loans are provided at a concessional interest rate of 4% p.a. The difference between the actual interest rate and the concessional rate is borne by the commission under the 'grants' head of its budget. However, only members producing Khadi or Polyvastra (a type of Khadi) are eligible for this scheme.\n\nThe rebate on sales of Khadi and Khadi products is made available by the Government so as to make the price of Khadi and Khadi products competitive with other textiles. Normal rebate (10 per cent) all through the year and an additional special rebate (10 per cent) for 108 days in a year, is given to the customers.\n\nThe rebate is allowed only on the sales made by the institutions/centers run by the Commission/State Boards and also at the sales centers run by the registered institutions which are engaged in the production of Khadi and polyvastra.\n\nRecently, the finance ministry has asked the micro, small and medium enterprises ministry to redraw its rebate scheme for Khadi and village industries. Its view is that the \"ministry should approach the plan commission and not seek year-to-year extension of the scheme. Furthermore, it has asked the MSME ministry to redesign the scheme in a manner that it should benefit the artisan and not the seller, which (has been) the case so far\" With regard to this, A proposal received from the Commission for introducing Market Development Assistance as a possible alternative to Rebate on Sale is being considered by the Government.\n\nThe Union Government through the Ministry of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises, provides funds to the Commission under two heads: Plan and Non – Plan. The funds provided under the 'Plan' Head are allocated by the commission to its implementing agencies. The funds provided under the 'Non – Plan' head are mainly for the Commission's administrative expenditure. \nFunds are provided mainly by a way of Grants and Loans.\n\nA major part of the Khadi grant is being utilised for the payment of sales rebate, which is considered a promotional expenditure. Other expenditures under this head are: Training, Publicity, Marketing, Interest Subsidy on bank loans under ISEC scheme\n\nExpenditures under this head include: Working Capital Expenditure and Fixed Capital Expenditure.\nFixed Capital expenditure further consists of expenditure on -\n\na) Machinery...1000000\nb) Implements...500000\nc) Work sheds...250000\nd) Sales Outlets etc.250000\n\nThe products produced by the institutions are either sold by them directly, through regovernment)\n\nIn total, there are 15431 sales outlets, out of which 7,050 are owned by the commission. These are spread all over India.\n\nThe products are also sold internationally through exhibitions arranged by the commission.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2136399", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2136399", "title": "Shia Mosque", "text": "Shia Mosque\n\nThe Shia Mosque is one of the largest Shia mosques in the mainly Shi'ite populated area of Islampura in the city of Lahore, Pakistan.\n\n"}
{"id": "2136401", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2136401", "title": "Dragnet (theme music)", "text": "Dragnet (theme music)\n\n\"Dragnet\" is an instrumental theme from the radio and television show of the same name. It was composed by Walter Schumann for the radio show, and was also used on the subsequent television series and later syndication of the TV series under the name \"Badge 714\". The theme is in two parts: an opening signature \"Main Title\" (the ominous \"Dum - - - de - DUM - DUM\") and the \"Dragnet March\" used over the end credits.\n\nPopular chart hit versions were recorded by Ray Anthony and his Orchestra (1953) and The Art of Noise (1987).\n\nFilm and television composer Nathan Scott, who began orchestrating for Schumann beginning in 1952, later became \"Dragnet\"'s second composer following Schumann's departure from the series.\n\nAfter the theme became a chart hit, the publishers of the score for the 1946 film version of \"The Killers\" composed by Miklós Rózsa challenged the authorship of the copyright of the Dragnet \"Main Title\". They contended that Walter Schumann had visited the sound stage in 1946 when Miklós Rózsa was recording \"The Killers\", and so had picked up (perhaps subconsciously) the melody of a cue for that film known as \"Danger Ahead\". A settlement between publishers resolved the case by allowing both composers and publishers to share the royalties for the short opening signature \"Main Title\", which became known as \"Danger Ahead\" after that. The \"Dragnet March\" remained the exclusive composition of Schumann.\n\nThe 1953 recording by Ray Anthony and his Orchestra sold over 500,000 copies in the US and rocketed Ray Anthony to popularity. It was available as both a 45rpm 7-inch vinyl record and a 78rpm 10-inch shellac record. It reached number three on the Billboard Hot 100 and spent two weeks in the UK chart (December 10, 1953 and January 14, 1954), peaking at number seven.\n\nThe 1987 version by The Art of Noise was an international hit, and won the 1987 Grammy Award for Best Rock Instrumental Performance. It was used as the theme music for the 1987 film version of \"Dragnet\" based on the TV show.\n\nA new version was released the following year, \"Dragnet (The '88 Mix)\".\n\nEvan Cater for \"AllMusic\" describes the 12-inch single as \"a catchy mesh of orchestral samples, synthesized noise and clips of dialogue from the film.\"\n\nThe Art of Noise version reached number 60 in the UK, number 84 in the Netherlands, number 25 in New Zealand and number 29 in Switzerland. \"Dragnet (The '88 Mix)\" reached number 90 in the UK.\n\nA parody of the theme opened the 1967 Eric Burdon and The Animals hit \"San Franciscan Nights\". A sample of it was used in the 1973 song \"Armed and Extremely Dangerous\" by First Choice.\n\nThe opening signature was used in the theme song for the 1987 TV series \"Simon and the Witch\".\n\nThe 2003 Dick Wolf-produced version of \"Dragnet\" used a modified version of the \"Danger Ahead\" theme composed by Mike Post.\n\nThe opening signature is frequently played during NHL hockey games by the home team (Detroit is one example) whenever a member of the opposing team has drawn a penalty.\n\n"}
{"id": "2136403", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2136403", "title": "Piper Sandler Companies", "text": "Piper Sandler Companies\n\nPiper Sandler Companies is an American multinational independent investment bank and financial services company, focused on mergers and acquisitions, financial restructuring, public offerings, public finance, institutional brokerage, investment management and securities research. Through its principal subsidiary, Piper Jaffray & Co., the company targets corporations, institutional investors, and public entities.\n\nBased in Minneapolis, Minnesota, Piper Jaffray has 55 offices in the U.S., Europe and Asia. The company was founded in 1895.\n\nPiper Jaffray was named one of America's 50 Most Trustworthy Financial Companies by \"Forbes\" magazine in 2015 and 2017. Piper Jaffray was also named 2014 Investment Bank of the Year by \"Mergers & Acquisitions\" Journal.\n\nOn July 9, 2019, the company announced an agreement to buy fellow investment bank Sandler O'Neill, with the new combined entity to be called Piper Sandler Cos.\n\nPiper Jaffray traces its roots to 1895 when George Lane established George B. Lane, Commercial Paper and Collateral Loans & Co., a commercial paper brokerage, in Minneapolis. In 1913, Piper, Jaffray Co. was established as another commercial paper business by H.C. Piper Sr. and Clive Palmer (C.P. or Palmer) Jaffray. In 1917, George B. Lane & Co. merged with Piper, Jaffray & Co. to form Lane, Piper & Jaffray.\n\nThe firm first obtained a seat on the New York Stock Exchange in 1931 with the acquisition of Hopwood & Company, which had been devastated by the stock market crash. In 1971, Piper first offered stock to the public and became a publicly held corporation known as Piper, Jaffray & Hopwood Incorporated. Later, in 1986, Piper's common stock began trading on the NASDAQ under the ticker symbol PIPR. In 1997, the firm was acquired by U.S. Bancorp, also based in Minneapolis, for $730 million in cash. From 1999 to 2003, the firm was known as U.S. Bancorp Piper Jaffray. In 2003, U.S. Bancorp spun off Piper Jaffray in a stock dividend to its shareholders, making the company independent once again under the symbol PJC. In 2006, the company sold its brokerage business to Zurich-based UBS for $510 million in cash. The business had approximately 800 brokers at that time.\n\nOn July 9, 2019, Piper Jaffray announced they were purchasing fellow investment bank Sandler O'Neill for $485M. The new combined entity was going to be named Piper Sandler Cos, and Piper Jaffray CEO Chad Abraham would continue to lead the combined company.\n\nPiper Jaffray operates principally through the following business segments:\n\nWithin its investment banking division, Piper Jaffray provides advisory and financing services involving:\n\n\nIn 2013, Piper Jaffray was recognized for the second year in a row as the top healthcare investment bank by Global Finance Magazine.\nIn February 2016, Piper Jaffray acquired Houston-based energy firm Simmons & Company International for a total consideration of approximately $139 million, consisting of $91 million in cash and $48 million in restricted stock.\n\nPiper Jaffray underwrites debt issuances and provides financial advisory to government and not-for-profit entities. In 2016, the Piper Jaffray public finance group ranked No. 2 for senior-managed underwriting and No. 5 for financial advisory transactions. (by number of issues.)\n\nPiper Jaffray serves institutional investors and corporate clients through the following segments:\n\n\nPiper Jaffray provides investment management and advisory services to institutional clients in the areas of equity, fixed income, private equity funds, master limited partnership and merchant banking. In 2010, the company acquired Advisory Research, Inc., a Chicago-based asset management firm with approximately $7 billion in assets under management. Advisory Research provides U.S., international, global and MLP and energy infrastructure strategies to institutional investors.\n\nPiper Jaffray has been recognized six years (2012-2017) for gender diversity on its board of directors by receiving the \"W\" distinction from 2020 Women on Boards. This designation is given to companies with corporate boards which are at least 20% women.\n\nIn 2002, Piper Jaffray was fined $25 million by state and federal regulators to settle charges that it provided biased stock ratings as part of the Global Analyst Research Settlements. Other firms, such as JP Morgan, Goldman Sachs, Merrill Lynch, UBS, Deutsche Bank and Morgan Stanley were fined for similar reasons. The firm agreed to make structural changes relating to its research and investment banking program to restore confidence in its business.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2136417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2136417", "title": "Ghadar Movement", "text": "Ghadar Movement\n\nThe Ghadar Movement () was an early 20th century, international political movement founded by expatriate Indians to overthrow British rule in India. The early membership was composed mostly of Punjabi Sikhs who lived and worked on the West Coast of the United States and Canada, but the movement later spread to India and Indian diasporic communities around the world. The official founding has been dated to a 1913 meeting in Astoria, Oregon, with the Ghadar headquarters and Hindustan Ghadar newspaper based in San Francisco, California. \n\nFollowing the outbreak of World War I in 1914, some Ghadar party members returned to Punjab to incite armed revolution for Indian Independence. Ghadarites smuggled arms into India and incited Indian troops to mutiny against the British. This uprising, known as the Ghadar Mutiny, was unsuccessful, and 42 mutineers were executed following the Lahore Conspiracy Case trial. From 1914 to 1917 Ghadarites continued underground anti-colonial actions with the support of Germany and Ottoman Turkey, known as the Hindu–German Conspiracy, which led to a sensational trial in San Francisco in 1917. \n\nFollowing the war's conclusion, the party in the United States fractured into a Communist and an Indian Socialist faction. The party was formally dissolved in 1948. Key participants in the Ghadar Movement included Bhai Parmanand, Sohan Singh Bhakna, Bhagwan Singh Gyanee, Har Dayal, Tarak Nath Das, Bhagat Singh Thind, Kartar Singh Sarabha, Abdul Hafiz Mohamed Barakatullah, Rashbehari Bose, and Gulab Kaur. Although its attempts at overthrowing the British Raj were unsuccessful, the insurrectionary ideals of the Ghadar Party influenced members of the Indian Independence Movement opposed to Gandhian nonviolence.\n\n\"Ghadar\" is an Urdu word derived from Arabic which means \"revolt\" or \"rebellion.\" It is often also spelled Ghadr or Gadar in English. The movement's name was closely associated with its newspaper, the Hindustan Ghadar.\n\nBetween 1903 and 1913 approximately 10,000 South Asians emigres entered North America, mostly from the rural regions of central Punjab. About half the Punjabis had served in the British military. The Canadian government decided to curtail this influx with a series of laws, which were aimed at limiting the entry of South Asians into the country and restricting the political rights of those already in the country. Many migrants came to work in the fields, factories, and logging camps of Northern California and the Pacific Northwest, where they were exposed to labor unions and the ideas of the radical Industrial Workers of the World or IWW. The migrants of the Pacific Northwest banded together in Sikh gurdwaras and formed political Hindustani Associations for mutual aid. \n\nNationalist sentiments were also building around the world among South Asian emigres and students, where they could organize more freely than in British India. Several dozen students came to study at the University of Berkeley, some spurred by a scholarship offered by a wealthy Punjabi farmer. Revolutionary intellectuals like Har Dayal and Taraknath Das attempted to organize students and educate them in anarchist and nationalist ideas. \n\nRasBihari Bose on request from Vishnu Ganesh Pingle, an American trained Ghadar, who met Bose at Benares and requested him to take up the leadership of the coming revolution. But before accepting the responsibility, he sent Sachin Sanyal to the Punjab to assess the situation. Sachin returned very optimistic, in the United States and Canada with the aim to liberate India from British rule. The movement began with a group of immigrants known as the Hindustani Workers of the Pacific Coast.\nThe Ghadar Party, initially the \"Pacific Coast Hindustan Association\", was formed in 1913 in the United States but before a decision to create headquarter at Yugantar Ashram in San Francisco was taken at a meeting in the town of Astoria in the state of Oregon in USA under the leadership of Har Dayal, Sant Baba Wasakha Singh Dadehar, Baba Jawala Singh, Santokh Singh and Sohan Singh Bhaknaas its president. The members of the party were Indian immigrants, largely from Punjab. Many of its members were students at University of California at Berkeley including Dayal, Tarak Nath Das, Maulavi Barkatullah, Harnam Singh Tundilat, Kartar Singh Sarabha and V.G. Pingle. The party quickly gained support from Indian expatriates, especially in the United States, Canada, East Africa, and Asia.\n\nThe party was built around the weekly paper \"The Ghadar\", which carried the caption on the masthead: \"Angrezi Raj Ka Dushman\" (an enemy of the British rule). \"Wanted brave soldiers\", the Ghadar declared, \"to stir up rebellion in India. Pay-death; Price-martyrdom; Pension-liberty; Field of battle-India\". The ideology of the party was strongly secular. In the words of Sohan Singh Bhakna, who later became a major peasant leader of Punjab: \"We were not Sikhs or Punjabis. Our religion was patriotism\". The first issue of \"The Ghadar\", was published in San Francisco on November 1, 1913.\n\nAs Kartar Singh Sarabha, one of the founders of the party, wrote in the first issue: \"Today there begins 'Ghadar' in foreign lands, but in our country's tongue, a war against the British Raj. What is our name? Ghadar. What is our work? Ghadar. Where will be the Revolution? In India. The time will soon come when rifles and blood will take the place of pens and ink.\" \n\nFollowing the voyage of the Komagata Maru in 1914, a direct challenge to Canadian anti-Indian immigration laws, several thousand Indians resident in the United States sold their business and homes ready to drive the British from India. However, Har Dayal had fled to Europe concerned that the U.S. authorities would hand him over to the British. Sohan Singh Bhakna was already in British hands, and the leadership fell to Ram Chandra. Following the entry of Canada into World War I, the organisation was centred in the USA and received substantial funding from the German government. They had a very militant tone, as illustrated by this quote from Harnam Singh:\n\nThe party rose to prominence in the second decade of the 20th century, and grew in strength owing to Indian discontent over World War I and the lack of political reforms.\n\nGhadar activists undertook what the British described as political terrorism. \n\nIn 1917 some of their leaders were arrested and put on trial in the Hindu German Conspiracy Trial in which their paper was quoted.\n\nIn 1914, Kasi Ram Joshi a member of the party from Haryana, returned to India from America. On 15 March 1915 he was hanged by the colonial government.\n\nThe Ghadar party commanded a loyal following the province of Punjab, but many of its most prominent activists were forced into exile to Canada and the United States. It ceased to play an active role in Indian politics after.\nAlthough publication such as independence Hindustan and revolution activities of Ghadar Party against British rule continued from 5 wood street San Francisco, place where Ghadar Memorial has been built but Har Dayal one among its founding members severed all connections with revolutionists by its open letter published in March 1919 in Indian newspapers and new Statesman USA, and by writing to British Goveronment for obtaining Amnesty for himself.\n\nThe party had active members in other countries such as Mexico, Japan, China, Singapore, Thailand, Philippines, Malaya, Indo-China and Eastern and Southern Africa.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nAjmer Singh - Gadari Babe Kaun San -https://archive.org/details/GadriBabeKounSanByAjmerSingh\n\n"}
{"id": "2136418", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2136418", "title": "Hammad ibn Buluggin", "text": "Hammad ibn Buluggin\n\nHammad ibn Buluggin (died 1028) was the first ruler of the Hammadids in what is now Algeria (1014–1028).\n\nAfter the death of his father Buluggin ibn Ziri, al-Mansur ibn Buluggin (984–995), Hammad's brother, became the head of the Zirid dynasty in Ifriqiya, and installed Hammad as governor of the central Maghreb (grossly corresponding to the modern northern Algeria). He took on the Zanata tribes and eventually drove them into what is now modern-day Morocco . In 1007 Hammad founded the residence of al-Qala (\"the Fortress\") in the Hodna mountains west of Setif and embarked on an extensive building programme, which included a palace and mosque that became famous amongst contemporaries.\n\nFollowing this Hammad gained ever more influence in the western Zirid realm. In 1014 he adopted Sunni Islam, declared his independence from the Zirids and recognised the Sunni Abbasids in Baghdad as being the rightful Caliphs (not the Shia Fatimids in Egypt, on whose behalf the Zirids ruled). Although there was initially conflict with the Zirids, in 1016 they were forced to conclude a ceasefire, and in 1018 they recognised the independence of the Hammadids.\n\nThe successor of Hammad was Qaid ibn Hammad (1028–1054), under whom relations with the Fatimids were re-established.\n"}
{"id": "2136424", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2136424", "title": "MDS America", "text": "MDS America\n\nMDS America, Inc (MDSA) is a wireless Internet and wireless cable TV technology provider based in Stuart, Florida, US. MDS America was the primary party responsible for the invalidation of Northpoint Technology Inc's patents having to do with extraterrestrial rebroadcast of satellite signals.\n\nMDS Operations, an affiliated company, participated in recent auctions in 2005 and 2006 held by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) of the frequency band of 12.2 - 12.7 GHz, which it christened \"MVDDS\".\n\nThe receiver of MDSA's system uses a technology that is patented under US patent number 7,286,795.\n\nThe MVDDS system uses similar spectrum to a direct broadcast satellite (DBS) system, and is capable of operating at the same frequencies without interference. The MDSA two-way system competes against satellite Internet access; the shorter round trip distance of only a few hundred kilometers reduces the latency compared with a geostationary satellite's 44,000 mile 250ms latency. The MDSA system has the disadvantage of requiring infrastructure closer to the user - a satellite can cover a significant proportion of the country, instead of the maximum 200 km radius of an MDSA base station. However, since the MDSA signal can be sectorized, MDSA's bandwidth, unlike that of satellite, can be multiplied in most geographical areas. For video distribution, this means that local channels and local advertising can be injected into the signal, unlike with DBS satellite systems.\n\nMDS America Inc. (MDSA) built the first Terrestrial Digital Television distribution system in Ireland.\n\nMDS America has built and operates an MVDDS system in Albuquerque New Mexico. The system operates using MVDDS to cover an entire Metro area providing 50 Mbit/s of wireless Internet to the home.\n\n\nMDSA was sued by Northpoint Technology Ltd., on the grounds of patent infringement (US Patents #5,761,605 and #6,169,878.) MDSA contended that the patents that Northpoint had been granted were invalid since the patents essentially covered attributes of a satellite dish and Northpoint had not invented satellite dishes. In 2004, a jury in Federal Court in Ft. Pierce, Florida invalidated both asserted Northpoint patents on four separate grounds. This court case and subsequent invalidation of Northpoint's patents opened the way for the auctioning of MVDDS spectrum.\n\nThe above case was appealed to the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit. On June 28, 2005, the court AFFIRMED the findings of the lower court permanently invalidating both patents.\nShortly after this MDSA's subsidiary company MDS International are found to be in contempt of court for violation of a settlement agreement. Although the agreement is sealed, the Contempt of court order is not and is publicly available. This Contempt order reveals that:\n\n1. MDS international is required to state clearly on its website that it does not serve the United States.\"\n\n2. \"the Settlement Agreement that makes MDSA the sole owner of the rights to the HyCanC technology.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2136427", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2136427", "title": "Jürgen Wullenwever", "text": "Jürgen Wullenwever\n\nJürgen Wullenwever (c. 1492 – 29 September 1537) was burgomaster of Lübeck from 1533 to 1535, a period of religious, political and trade turmoil.\n\nWullenwever was probably born at Hamburg in 1492. Settling in Lübeck as a merchant he took some part in the risings of the inhabitants in 1530 and 1531, being strongly in sympathy with the democratic ideas in religion and politics which inspired them. Having joined the governing council of the city and become leader of the democratic party, he was appointed burgomaster early in 1533 and threw himself into the movement for restoring Lübeck to her former position of influence.\n\nPreparations were made to attack the Dutch towns, the principal trading rivals of Lübeck, when the death of Frederick I, king of Denmark, in April 1533 changed the position of affairs. The Lübeckers objected to the bestowal of the Danish crown upon any prince favorable to the Empire or the Roman Catholic religion, and Wullenwever went to Copenhagen to discuss the matter. At length an alliance was concluded with Henry VIII of England; considerable support was obtained in North Germany; and in 1534 an attack was made on Christian, Duke of Holstein, afterwards King Christian III, who claimed the throne - involving Lübeck in the Danish civil war known as the Count's Feud.\n\nAt first the Lübeckers gained several successes, but Christian of Holstein appeared before Lübeck; the efforts of Wullenwever to secure allies failed; and the citizens were compelled to make peace. The imperial court of justice at Speyer restored the old constitution, and in August 1535 the aristocratic party returned to power. Soon afterwards Wullenwever was seized by Christopher of Brunswick-Lüneburg, archbishop of Bremen, and handed over to his brother Henry II, Duke of Brunswick-Wolfenbüttel. Having been tortured and sentenced to death as a traitor and an Anabaptist, he was beheaded at Wolfenbüttel.\n\nWullenwever, who was long regarded as a popular hero in Lübeck, inspired tragedies by Heinrich Kruse and Karl Ferdinand Gutzkow, and a novel by Ludwig Köhler.\n\nThe biography of Ann Boleyn written by Jean Bruller (\"Vercors\") describes in considerable detail the course of Henry VIII's alliance with Wullenwever, concluded at the time when Ann Boleyn was Queen and involved herself in the running of England's foreign policy.\n"}
{"id": "2136432", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2136432", "title": "Gary Edwards (photographer)", "text": "Gary Edwards (photographer)\n\nGary Edwards has been a commercial and editorial photographer since 1989.\n\nBorn in Birmingham England, 27 August 1967, he was educated at Wrekin College and then studied Photography in Newcastle upon \nTyne. Initially based in the UK, he relocated to southern Spain in 1992. Gary Edwards has been commissioned by numerous publications \nacross Europe.\n\nEdwards's commercial subject matter is varied, including interiors and architecture, hotels, people, cars, jewellery, travel. Over the years he has photographed many well-known people including, Antonio Banderas, Ricky Martin, Buzz Aldrin, Gary Player, Ulf Ekberg, BB King, \nAnthony Worral Thompson, Ray Charles, Kevin Woodford, Lindka Cierach, Eva Herzigova, Alan Whicker, and Ian Botham. \nAside from his commercial work, Edwards's artistic Limited Edition Series photographs have been acquired by investment banks and 5 star hotels as well as individuals.\n\nDirect descendant of Sir Judge Thomas Noon Talfourd\n\n"}
{"id": "2136433", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2136433", "title": "San Fernando, Pampanga", "text": "San Fernando, Pampanga\n\n', officially the ' (; ), or simply referred to as San Fernando City, is a and capital of the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nIt is the regional center of Central Luzon and located north of Manila, east of Subic in Zambales, south of Tarlac City in Tarlac and south of Clark Air Base in Angeles City.\n\nThe city is named after King Ferdinand VI of Spain and placed under the patronage of Saint Ferdinand III of Castile and León, whose feast is celebrated every 30 May. Popularly known as the \"Christmas Capital of the Philippines\", the city holds the annual Giant Lantern Festival every December where large \"parol\" are displayed in competition. CNN has hailed the city as 'Asia's Christmas capital.'\n\nThe town of San Fernando was founded in 1754 from the towns of baliti\nBacolor and Mexico. The first church was built in 1755 with wooden walls and nipa roofing. The municipal tribunal was erected later in the year in front of the town plaza using durable materials and thatched nipa roofing. Don Vidal de Arrozal served as its first gobernadorcillo that year.\n\nIn 1796, after serving as gobernadorcillo the previous year, Don Ángel Pantaleon de Miranda retired to Barrio Saguin, from where he started setting up his hacienda in Barrio Culiat. The barrio was separated from San Fernando on the December 8, 1829 as the new town of Angeles, with the Los Santos Ángeles Custodios as titular patrons.\n\nAn expediente requesting the transfer of the provincial capital of Pampanga to San Fernando was signed on the August 6, 1852. Real Cedula 745, approving the transfer of the provincial capital of Pampanga from Bacolor to San Fernando, was signed on September 11, 1881. This transfer did not, in the event, materialize.\n\nIn 1878, actions were made to create the town of Calulut. This new town would be composed of Calulut and the neighboring barrios of Bulaun, Malpitic, Sindalan, La Paz, Lara, Saguin, Telabastagan, Balete, Malinao, Pulung Bulu, Panipuan, Macabacle and the caserio of Pau in San Fernando, and Panipuan, Acle, Suclaban and the sitio of Gandus in Mexico. This plan did not materialize, owing to strong opposition from the parish priest of San Fernando.\n\nGovernor-General Eulogio Despujol and Manila Archbishop Bernardino Nozaleda inaugurated the San Fernando railroad station, together with the Bagbag-Mabalacat stretch of the Manila-Dagupan Railroad, on February 2, 1892. The station was second only to Manila in revenues that year, and was thus the most important provincial station of the Manila-Dagupan Railroad. On June 27 of the same year, José P. Rizal made a stopover in the town as part of his mission to recruit members to the La Liga Filipina.\n\nOn September 1, 1896 the town was declared to be in a state of war despite its peaceful situation. Brigadier General Diego de los Rios arrived on December 2 to calm the revolution that started in Manila on August 30. General Ruiz Serralde took over Rios's post on June 26, 1897 to maintain the peace in San Fernando. The revolution was not yet at its height with occasional exchanges of fire in some places in Pampanga.\n\nOn June 26, 1898, representatives from all Pampanga towns, except Macabebe, gathered in San Fernando to swear allegiance to Gen. Maximino Hizon, who was the provincial military governor and representative of the revolutionary president, Emilio Aguinaldo. On October 9, Aguinaldo and his cabinet visited the town, and were welcomed with so much applause and enthusiastic cheering from the public. He proceeded to the convento which was served as the military headquarters at that time.\n\nOn May 4, 1899, Philippine revolutionary troops led by General Antonio Luna burned the \"casa municipal\", the town church and several houses to render them useless to the approaching American forces. On June 16, due to the strategic location of the town, Aguinaldo himself led Filipino forces in the Battle for San Fernando. The plan to retake the town proved unsuccessful. Calulut fell to the Americans on August 9.\n\nOn August 15, 1904, the Pampanga provincial government was finally transferred to San Fernando from Bacolor, by virtue of Act No. 1204 signed on July 22, 1904. This was during the term of Governor Macario Arnedo and Municipal President Juan Sengson. The town of Minalin became part of San Fernando that same year. It would regain its political independence in 1909.\n\nOn January 2, 1905, the town of Santo Tomas was consolidated with San Fernando by virtue of Act 1208.\n\nOn August 12, 1904, U.S. Secretary of War William H. Taft visited the town to get first-hand information and gather ideas for the governance of Pampanga. Owing to the short notice, a bamboo pavilion was hastily constructed for his visit, where he was welcomed with a banquet for 200 people. Taft would later be elected President of the United States.\n\nIn 1921, the Pampanga Sugar Development Company (PASUDECO) sugar central began its operations. The company was formed in 1918 by large-scale planters such as José de León, Augusto Gonzales, Francisco Tongio Liongson, Tomás Lazatin, Tomás Consunji, Francisco Hizon, José Henson, and Manuel Urquico in the San Fernando residence of Governor Honorio Ventura as part of a plan to construct a locally financed \"central\".\n\nIn 1932, the Socialist Party of the Philippines was founded by Pedro Abad Santos. Two years later, he created and headed the Aguman Ding Madlang Talapagobra (AMT). The Abad Santos compound in Barangay San Jose became the focal point of the peasant movement.\n\nOn February 14, 1939, Philippine president Manuel L. Quezon proclaimed his social justice program before a gathering of farmers in front of the Municipal Government building.\n\nIn 1941, forces of the Imperial Japanese Army occupied the town and placed the municipal government under its supervision. The following year, thousands of Filipino and American prisoners of war walked from Bataan to the San Fernando Train Station in what will be known as the Bataan Death March.\n\nIn 1952, the town of Santo Tomas was separated from San Fernando.\n\nIn 1986, Paterno Guevarra was sworn in as officer-in-charge of the town after the successful People Power Revolution that toppled the Marcos dictatorship that same year. He was later elected municipal mayor.\n\nIn 1990, Philippine president Corazon C. Aquino inaugurated the Paskuhan Village, the first Christmas village in Asia and the third of its kind in the world. The following year, Mount Pinatubo erupted after over 600 years of dormancy hurling a layer of ash and volcanic debris on the town.\n\nOn October 1, 1995, Typhoon Sibyl (Mameng) struck the town. It unleashed floodwaters and mudflows from Mount Pinatubo into the town. The Barangays of Santo Nino, San Juan, San Pedro Cutud and Magliman were severely damaged by lahar. The citizens of San Fernando rallied to save the town by raising funds to build the St. Ferdinand People's Dike. The Pampanga Megadike was constructed the following year, thus preventing further damage to the town.\n\nOn January 6, 1997, Mayor Rey B. Aquino and Senator Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo launched the campaign for cityhood. On April 27 of that same year, Rep. Oscar Rodriguez filed House Bill No. 9267 creating the City of San Fernando.\n\nIn 2000, House Speaker Arnulfo Fuentebella and Senate President Aquilino Pimentel Jr. signed the approved city charter of San Fernando on December 4 and 13 respectively.\n\nThe town officially became a component city on February 4, 2001 following the ratification of Republic Act 8990 in a plebiscite from the previous day, making it the 99th city in the Philippines. Rey Aquino was the city's first mayor.\n\nThe City of San Fernando is politically subdivided into 35 barangays.\n\nThe Roman Catholicism is the majority religion in the city; 80% of the population profess it. The city is under the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of San Fernando headed by Florentino Lavarias. Other religion includes Protestantism and Independent Christianity. Islam is also evident in the city. The seat of the Archdiocese of San Fernando is located in the city, the Metropolitan Cathedral of San Fernando.\n\nStrategically located at the heart of the province, the City of San Fernando is home to two public markets, thirty-nine banks, forty-eight lending institutions (investors), thirty-eight pawnshops, seventeen gasoline stations, three movie houses, thirty-nine public and private schools, seven hospitals, thirteen dental offices, nine hotels, twenty-eight drug stores, seven disco clubs, six foreign exchange firms, fifteen garment factories, twenty-four groceries, seven supermarkets, forty-two insurance companies, sixteen security agencies and seventy restaurants and fast food chains such as Jollibee, McDonald's, Mr. Donut, Greenwich, Shakey's, and Chowking. In addition to being the Provincial Capital of Pampanga, almost all Philippine banking institutions, military and governmental agencies have regional offices in the City of San Fernando.\nSM City Pampanga is a large shopping mall owned by Henry Sy, Sr. and his company, SM Prime Holdings. It is the very first SM Supermall in Central Luzon. It has since expanded to two other supermalls: SM City San Fernando Downtown, located in the city center in Consunji street; and SM City Telabastagan, in barangay Telabastagan.\nRobinsons Starmills Pampanga or Robinsons Starmills is a shopping mall owned and operated by John Gokongwei and his company, Robinsons Malls, the second-largest mall operator in the Philippines. This is the very first Robinsons Mall in the Central Luzon and in the Pampanga Province, rivaling adjacent SM City Pampanga. The mall is located at Jose Abad Santos Avenue, Barangay San Jose, San Fernando, Pampanga and Barangay Lagundi in the neighboring town of Mexico, Pampanga with a total floor area of 62,000 square meters (667,120 square feet).\n\nSan Fernando serves as one of the agricultural processing center of Central Luzon. It is a major rice-producing region and an important sugar-producing area. The Pampanga Sugar Development Company (PASUDECO) was once the largest private employer in Pampanga. It is a major sugar-processing plant in the region. Other manufacturing companies with offices in the city include Universal Robina Corporation, Zuellig Pharma Corporation, Nestlé Philippines, Petrophil, Mondragon Industries, Asia Brewery, and Del Monte Corporation. Major bottling companies such as the San Miguel Corporation Complex, Coca-Cola, Pepsi Cola, Cosmos and Metrobottling, Pampanga's Best Inc. are located within the city.\n\nEvery year during the Christmas season, the city becomes the hub of a thriving industry centered on handcrafted lanterns called \"parols\". What distinguish the San Fernando lantern from the ordinary \"parol\" are the intricate designs and the illusion of dancing lights, which focuses on the vibrant colors of the lantern. Also, every year around Christmas time, there is a town lantern festival. Different neighborhoods around San Fernando, come together for a friendly competition to see which neighborhoods lanterns are the best. The festival itself is held in the middle of December, rooted back to the city of Bacolor. The transfer from the city of Bacolor to the city of San Fernando in August 1904. In the dialect of Kapampangan, this event is called \"Ligligan Parol\". But, for many who have experienced this say that \"Ligligan Parol\" did not actually quite happen. Especially following up the immediate transfer of customs between the 2 cities in the year 1908. It went on to be a tradition that has evolved as the lantern gradually became larger and larger and more intricate each year. Years later, the lantern itself was a symbol for the resident contribution, benefiting their labor. The sole purpose of these lanterns symbolized the unity amongst different neighborhoods.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe City of San Fernando Heritage District covers the historic core of San Fernando, including Barangay Santo Rosario and parts of Barangays San Jose (Panlumacan), Santa Teresita (Baritan), Lourdes (Teopaco), Del Pilar, Santa Lucia and Santo Niño. These important sites are broken down under Heritage Houses, Historic Government Buildings, Schools, and Hospitals, and Historic Industrial Structures and Sites\n\nChurches and Other Religious Structures:\n\n\nHeritage Houses:\n\nHistoric Government Buildings, Schools, and Hospitals:\n\nIndustrial Heritage Structures and Sites:\n\n\nThis is the list of the mayors of City of San Fernando.\n\n\nThe City of San Fernando has four TV stations - KTV Channel 12, Infomax Channel 8, Central Luzon Television Channel 36 (CLTV36) and ABS-CBN TV-46 Pampanga. There are also two radio stations, the 5 Kilowatt RW 95.1 FM of the RadioWorld Broadcasting Corporation of the Philippines and the 2.5 kilowatt 92.7 Brigada News FM Central Luzon of the Brigada Mass Media Corporation.\n\nSeveral local newspapers are published in the city which includes SunStar Pampanga, The Probe, Coffee Punch, Pampanga Times and the Observer.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2136441", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2136441", "title": "CBU-24", "text": "CBU-24\n\nThe CBU-24 (Cluster Bomb Unit-24) is an unguided, aircraft delivered anti-personnel and anti-materiel weapon developed by the United States. Because it is an unguided weapon, the CBU-24 can be carried and dropped by any aircraft capable of carrying standard \"dumb\" or \"iron\" bombs.\n\nThe CBU-24 cluster bomb consists of a SUU-30 dispenser unit containing a payload of 665 tennis ball-sized BLU-26 or BLU-36 fragmentation submunitions, also known as bomblets. Once dropped from the delivery aircraft, the CBU-24 casing breaks open in-flight and releases the individual submunitions, scattering them over a large area.\n\nEach submunition is designed to detonate and damage or destroy targets within the weapon's footprint by explosion, concussion and fragmentation effects. While most BLU-26 submunitions explode on impact, they can also be set for air-burst or fixed-period delayed detonation. The BLU-36 submunition has a random time-delay fuse and will detonate at some point after impact.\n\nThe time-delay function of the submunitions is designed to continue to deny the area to the enemy for some time after the initial attack and hamper clean up and casualty recovery operations.\n\nWhile primarily designed as an anti-personnel weapon, the bomblets can also damage structures and soft vehicle targets within the target area.\n\n"}
{"id": "2136444", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2136444", "title": "In Motion (Copeland album)", "text": "In Motion (Copeland album)\n\nIn Motion is the second full-length album released by the Lakeland, Florida band Copeland. The album includes a bonus disc of the \"Sony Connect Sessions\" with acoustic versions of \"Don't Slow Down\", \"Pin Your Wings\", \"Take Care\" and \"Coffee\", the latter two of which are taken from \"Beneath Medicine Tree\".\n\n\nAll music written and arranged by Copeland except \"Choose the One Who Loves You More\" written by Copeland and Stephen Nichols.\n\n"}
{"id": "2136446", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2136446", "title": "Tom Watson (journalist)", "text": "Tom Watson (journalist)\n\nTom Watson (born February 21, 1962) is a centrist blogger.\n\nWatson was born in Yonkers, New York.\n\nHe is the author of \"CauseWired: Plugging In, Getting Involved, Changing the World\" (Wiley, 2008), president of CauseWired, a consulting company he founded, and a columnist for \"Forbes\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2136450", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2136450", "title": "Benjamin Friedman", "text": "Benjamin Friedman\n\nBenjamin Friedman may refer to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2136458", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2136458", "title": "R. Borlax", "text": "R. Borlax\n\nR. Borlax is the debut album by Horse the Band, released in 2003 on Pluto Records. It was re-released in 2007 with two bonus tracks by Koch Records. As with all Horse the Band recordings, the keyboards are used to mimic the 8-bit sound produced by the Nintendo Entertainment System. This is the band's only release with bassist Andy Stokes and the last with drummer Jason Karuza.\n\nThe track \"Purple\" opens and ends with short audio samples from the film \"Mulholland Drive\". The track \"Cutsman\" opens with an audio sample from the film \"The Wizard\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2136466", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2136466", "title": "Halušky", "text": "Halušky\n\nHalušky ( in Czech and Slovak, singular: \"haluška\"; , \"haluska\" or \"nokedli\"; ; ; ; ,) are a traditional variety of thick, soft noodles or dumplings cooked in the Central and Eastern European cuisines (Slovakia, Czech Republic, Poland, Serbia, Ukraine, Lithuania, Romania and Hungary). Halušky can refer to the dumplings themselves, or to the complete dish. They are the national food of Slovakia.\n\nThe dumplings can be made from dough spread in a thin layer on a wooden cutting board, then cut and scraped off in small pieces which are dropped into boiling water. They can also be made with a special perforated halušky strainer forming small (1/2 × 2–3 cm) irregularly-shaped lumps which drop directly into boiling water as a thinner batter-like dough is pressed through the openings of the strainer.\n\nAlthough recipes vary from region to region, in general flour is mixed with water to form a batter. Finely grated potatoes can be added to the batter. Eggs may be added, but Slovak bryndzové halušky do not contain them; flour and mashed potatoes are enough to form a batter. After cooking, they are mixed with various ingredients, such as cheese, meat, butter, cabbage, onions, or combinations of these.\n\nBryndzové halušky is a traditional Slovak dish also found in Moravia in the eastern part of the Czech Republic. Strapačky is a similar Slovak dish, where stewed sauerkraut is used instead of bryndza. In Hungary, galuska are often eaten with meat stews, such as goulash or pörkölt.\n\nIn the United States, most adapted halusky recipes call for egg noodles rather than potato dumplings. Some American cooks include loose, cut, and fried green cabbage (a convergence with strapačky, compelled by simplicity, difficulty in finding bryndza or acceptable substitutes, and access to affordable cabbage in areas with prominent existing Slavic and Germanic immigration).\n\n"}
{"id": "2136485", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2136485", "title": "Islamic City Council of Tehran", "text": "Islamic City Council of Tehran\n\nThe Islamic City Council of Tehran () is the directly elected council that presides over the city of Tehran, elects the Mayor of Tehran in a mayor–council government system, and budgets of the Municipality of Tehran.\n\nThe council is composed of twenty one members elected on a Plurality-at-large voting basis for four-year terms. The Chairman and the Deputy Chairman of the Council are chosen by the council at the first regular meeting in odd-numbered years.\n\nIt holds regular meetings on Sunday, Tuesday and Wednesday at 10 am (except on holidays or if decided by special resolution not to meet).\n\nPersian Constitutional Revolution passed a law on local governance known as “Ghanoon-e Baladieh”. The second and third articles of the law, on “anjoman-e baladieh”, or the city council, provide a detailed outline on issues such as the role of the councils in the city, the members’ qualifications, the election process, and the requirements to be entitled to vote. Baladieh, or the modern municipality in Iran was established in 1910, to cope with the growing need for the transformation of Tehran’s city structures.\n\nAfter the First World War, Reza Shah, the founder of the Pahlavi dynasty, immediately suspended the “Ghanoon-e Baladieh” of 1907 and the decentralized and autonomous city councils were replaced by centralist/sectoralist approaches of governance and planning.\n\n"}
{"id": "2136494", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2136494", "title": "Salad bowl", "text": "Salad bowl\n\nA salad bowl is a bowl-shaped serving dish used to serve salads, especially tossed salads.\n\nSalad bowls may be made of any of the usual materials used for tableware, including ceramics, metal, plastic, glass, or wood.\n\nIn the United States from the 1940s to the 1960s, wooden salad bowls were recommended by many cookbooks. This fashion was started by the restaurateur and food writer George Rector, who in 1936 wrote a column entitled \"Salad Daze\". In that column, he recommended using an unvarnished wooden salad bowl, purportedly a French tradition. He recommended rubbing garlic into it for a hint of garlic flavor, oiling it regularly, and never washing it:\nBy that Christmas season, wooden salad bowls had become a fashionable gift item, and by 1949, the cultural critic Russell Lynes was saying that a highbrow person \"wouldn't dream of washing his salad bowl\".\n\nThe wooden salad bowl was criticized soon thereafter, even if it had a finish:\n\nRubbing garlic on the salad bowl has a long history:\n\nSalad bowls may be of any shape and size, from very flat to very tall.\n"}
{"id": "2136509", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2136509", "title": "1910–11 in Scottish football", "text": "1910–11 in Scottish football\n\nThe 1910–11 season was the 38th season of competitive football in Scotland and the 21st season of the Scottish Football League.\n\nChampions: Rangers\n\nThis season Ayr and Ayr Parkhouse have merged to form Ayr United. The vacant place in Division Two was filled by Dundee Hibernian.\n\n. *replay\n\nKey:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2136511", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2136511", "title": "Alfred Perry", "text": "Alfred Perry\n\nAlfred Perry was a prominent Montrealer and fire marshal who, with a group of Protestant clergy and Montréal citizens, founded the Douglas Hospital (originally named the \"Protestant Hospital for the Insane.\") in Montreal, Quebec, Canada on July 19, 1881.\n"}
{"id": "2136519", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2136519", "title": "Hans Karl von Winterfeldt", "text": "Hans Karl von Winterfeldt\n\nHans Karl von Winterfeldt (4 April 1707 – 8 September 1757), a Prussian general, served in the War of the Polish Succession, the War of Austrian Succession, Frederick the Great's Silesian wars and the Seven Years' War. One of Frederick's trusted confidantes and advisors, he attracted enmity from other courtiers. Frederick entrusted him with considerable autonomy on the general staff, and Winterfeldt developed the first \"modern\" program of military intelligence gathering. He negotiated the Convention of Westminster and, for his efforts on Frederick's behalf, received the Order of the Black Eagle and the Order Pour le Mérite. He died from wounds received at Battle of Moys. His name is included on the Equestrian statue of Frederick the Great.\n\nHans Karl von Winterfeldt was born at Vanselow Castle (now in Siedenbrünzow, Mecklenburg-Vorpommern) in Swedish Pomerania. His education was imperfect, and in later life he always regretted his lack of familiarity with the French language.\n\nWinterfeldt entered the cuirassier regiment of his uncle, Major General von Winterfeld, where he served until 1720; he was promoted cornet ( after two years service. He was fortunate enough, by his stature and soldierly bearing, to attract the notice of Frederick William I, who transferred him to the so-called giant regiment of grenadiers as a lieutenant. Before long he became a personal \"aide-de-camp\" to the king, and in 1732 he was sent with a party of selected non-commissioned officers to assist in the organization of the Russian army.\n\nWhile the guest of the Count Marshal Munnich at St. Petersburg, Winterfeldt fell in love with, and married, his cousin Julie von Maltzahn, who was also the marshal's stepdaughter and a lady in waiting to the grand duchess Elizabeth of Russia. On returning to Prussia he became an intimate of the crown prince, afterwards Frederick the Great, whom he later accompanied in the Rhine campaign of 1734. This intimacy, in view of his personal relations with the king, made Winterfeldt's position very difficult, for Frederick William and his son were badly estranged over the Katte Affair; eventually the prince was brought before a court-martial by his father, on the charge of attempting to desert, and was condemned to death. Winterfeldt remained the prince's constant friend through all these troubles, and on Frederick II's accession, he was promoted to major and appointed \"aide-de-camp\" to the new sovereign.\n\nWhen the War of the Austrian Succession started, Winterfeldt was sent on a mission to St. Petersburg, which, however, failed. He then commanded a grenadier battalion with great distinction at the Battle of Mollwitz, and won further glory in the celebrated minor combat of Rothschloss, where the Prussian hussars defeated the Austrians on 17 May 1741. One month later, Winterfeldt was made a colonel, as also was Zieten, the cavalry leader who had actually commanded at Rothschloss; the latter, as the older in years and service, resented the rapid promotion of his junior. After this promotion, Frederick chiefly employed Winterfeldt as a confidential staff officer to represent his views to the generals, a position in which Winterfeldt needed extraordinary tact and knowledge of men and affairs, and as a matter of course made many enemies.\n\nWinterfeldt was the King's confidente in reforming the army, recreating the general staff, and developing military intelligence. In the short peace, he was in constant attendance upon the king, who employed him again, when the war was resumed, in the same capacity as before, and, after he had been instrumental in winning a series of successful minor engagements. was promoted to major general in 1745, with effect from January 1743.\n\nFor his great services at Hohenfriedberg, Frederick gave him the captaincy of Tatiau, which carried with it a salary of 500 thalers a year. Later on he became Governor of Kolberg in Pomerania. At Battle of Hennersdorf, Zieten repulsed the sudden and unexpected assault of the united Austro-Saxon force; Winterfeldt arrived on the field in time to take a decisive part in the victory. Once again the rivals had to share the laurels, and Zieten wrote to the king in disparagement of Winterfeldt, receiving in reply a full and generous recognition of his own worth and services, coupled with the curt remark that the king intended to employ General von Winterfeldt in any way that he thought fit. During the ten years peace that preceded the next great war, Winterfeldt was in constant attendance upon the king, except when employed on confidential missions in the provinces or abroad. For example, he was sent to London for negotiating the Convention of Westminster. In 1756 he was made a lieutenant general and received the Order of the Black Eagle and the Order Pour le Mérite.\n\nThe 1745 Treaty of Dresden, which concluded Prussia's war with Austria, gave Prussia control of Silesia. Frederick understood that Maria Theresa would seek to regain the territory she had lost when she had a chance. Winterfeldt was active in collecting information about the coalition that was secretly preparing to strike Prussia. In preparing for the upcoming war, Winterfeldt took a leading part in the discussions which eventuated in Frederick's decision to strike the first blow.\n\nWinterfeldt was at Pirna with the king; when the Saxons surrendered there, Frederick considered incorporating the Saxon army wholesale into his own, and Winterfeldt advised him against this act. Frederick did it anyway. He accompanied Schwerin in the advance on Prague in 1757 and took a conspicuous part in the battle there, where the Saxon army deserted the Prussians by regiment. After the defeat of Kolin, however, Winterfeldt, whom Frederick seems to have regarded as the only man of character whom he could trust to conduct the more delicate and difficult operations of the retreat, found himself obliged to work in close contact with the king's brother, Prince William, Zieten and others of the men who considered him their enemies.\n\nThe operations which followed may be summarized by the phrase everything went wrong; after an angry scene with his brother, Prince William retired from the army, and when Frederick gave Winterfeldt renewed marks of his confidence, the general animosity reached its height. As it chanced, however, Winterfeldt fell a victim to his own bravery in a skirmish at Moys near Görlitz on 7 September. His wound proved fatal and he died on 8 September.\n\nThe court enmities provoked by his twenty years unbroken intimacy and influence with the king, and the denigration of less gifted or less fortunate soldiers, followed him in death. Prince William expressed the bitterness of his hatred in almost his last words, and Prince Henry's memoirs give a wholly incredible portrait of Winterfeldt's arrogance, dishonesty, immorality and incapacity. Frederick, however, was not apt to encourage incompetence in his most trusted officers, and as for the rest, Winterfeldt stood first among the very few to whom the king gave his friendship and his entire confidence. On hearing of Winterfeldt's death, he said, \"I will never ever find again another Winterfeldt,\"and a little later, \"He was a good man, a soulful man; he was my friend\". Winterfeldt's strength was thinking and acting strategically.\n\nInitially, Winterfeldt was buried at his estate of Barschau; a hundred years later, his body was transferred to the \"Invalidenfriedhof\" (military cemetery) at Berlin. A statue, which stands on the Wilhelmplatz there, was erected to his memory, and another was erected in the Bodemuseum on the Museumsinsel. Another forms part of the memorial to Frederick the Great at the boulevard Unter den Linden. In 1851 his name was inscribed on Frederick the Great's Equestrian Statue.\n\n"}
{"id": "2136520", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2136520", "title": "Anna of Lorraine", "text": "Anna of Lorraine\n\nAnna of Lorraine (25 July 1522 – 15 May 1568) was a princess of the House of Lorraine. She was Princess of Orange by her first marriage to René of Châlon, and Duchess of Aarschot by her second marriage to Philippe II of Croÿ.\n\nAnna was the daughter of Antoine the Good, Duke of Lorraine and Renée of Bourbon-Montpensier. Her maternal grandparents were Gilbert of Bourbon, Count of Montpensier, and Clara Gonzaga. Her brothers were Francis I, Duke of Lorraine and Nicolas, Duke of Mercœur.\n\nShe married René of Châlon, Prince of Orange on 22 August 1540 at Bar-le-Duc. They had a single daughter, Maria, born in 1544, who only lived three weeks and was buried in the Grote Kerk at Breda.\n\nRené died in 1544, and all of his lands were inherited by William the Silent, his cousin. Anna remarried to Philip II, Duke of Aarschot, on 9 July 1548. They had one son, Charles Philippe de Croÿ, born on 1 September 1549 in Brussels. He was the Prince of Croÿ and in 1580 married (1550 – after 1635), Countess of Fontenoy-le-Château. He died on 25 November 1613 in Burgundy.\n\nShe died in Diest.\n\n"}
{"id": "2136526", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2136526", "title": "T. G. Jones", "text": "T. G. Jones\n\nThomas George \"T. G.\" Jones (12 October 1917 – 3 January 2004) was a Welsh footballer most notable for his career with Everton and Wales.\nBorn in Queensferry and raised in Connah's Quay, Tommy (T.G.) Jones started his professional career with Wrexham. He signed for Everton for £3,000 in 1936. He won a Football League First Division champions medal in only his second full season at Everton in 1938-39, before his career was interrupted by the Second World War. Jones served as a sergeant PT Instructor in the RAF during the war, but he resumed his career for Everton in 1946. A.S. Roma successfully bid £15,000 for him, a large sum in those days, but foreign exchange regulations stopped the transfer. After the war Everton transferred Tommy Lawton to Chelsea and Joe Mercer to Arsenal. These deals were not only blows to the Everton team, but to him personally, he had been best man at Joe Mercer's wedding.\n\nA club director falsely accused Jones of feigning injury in a wartime match and his senior appearances thereafter were sporadic. Jones's injury was actually severe enough to put him in hospital for four months. Once the relations with the manager Cliff Britton became so bad that he was even not picked for the reserve team, and played secretly for Hawarden Grammar Old Boys. Jones became club captain in 1949 but after falling out of favour, in January 1950, he accepted an offer to leave Everton for Pwllheli. In all he made 178 peacetime appearances for Everton, scoring five goals.\n\nJones won 17 caps for Wales and eleven caps in wartime internationals.\n\nAfter Jones left Everton he played non league football for Pwllheli and became their part-time manager, as well as running a hotel in the town. In 1957 he became manager of Bangor City. In 1962, after winning the Welsh Cup, the team beat Napoli 2–0 in the home leg in the European Cup Winners Cup but lost 1–3 in Italy. With no away-goal rule, Bangor lost the replay 3–1. He ended his managerial career at Rhyl followed by a brief stint as advisor to Bethesda. In later life Jones ran a newsagent's shop in north Wales.\n\nHe was elected a 'Millennium Giant' by Everton in 2000, one of the first eleven from the club's long history to be so honoured. The panel of assessors described him as an apparently effortless, skilful and assured footballer. He passed the ball from his position at centre-half in the same way that Franz Beckenbauer would do later. He was renowned for his sporting behaviour. Stanley Matthews, Tommy Lawton, Joe Mercer and Dixie Dean each cited Jones as the greatest player that they ever saw. Former Liverpool star of the same era, Cyril Done, said that \"T. G. was a gentleman off the field, and a gentleman on the field\".\n\nIn addition to his playing career, Tommy was instrumental in re-establishing senior football in his home town after the collapse of Connah's Quay and Shotton United in 1927, just six months after they had won the Welsh Cup and beating the previous season's FA Cup winners Cardiff City in the final. Though junior clubs, notable Connah's Quay Albion played in the town it was not until Tommy's intervention in July 1946 that Connah's Quay Juniors, the fore-runner of the present-day Nomads club was formed. Attracted by the reputation of the famous international, youngsters from Connah's Quay and its surrounding towns and villages flocked to join the new team which quickly became a major force in North Wales youth soccer, winning the Welsh Youth Cup in 1948. By natural progression a senior team was formed and joined the Flintshire League in 1948. Success soon followed and Connah's Quay Juniors reached the final of the Welsh Amateur Cup in 1950/51. Prior to the 1952/53 season, the suffix Nomads was adopted and the team ventured into the Welsh League (North).\n\nHis wife Joyce died in 2003. He was survived by his two daughters, Jane and Elizabeth.\n"}
{"id": "2136528", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2136528", "title": "List of members of City Council of Tehran", "text": "List of members of City Council of Tehran\n\nThis is a list of members of City Council of Tehran:\n\n"}
{"id": "2136532", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2136532", "title": "Louis Leroy", "text": "Louis Leroy\n\nLouis Leroy (1812–1885) was a French 19th-century printmaker, painter, and successful playwright. \n\nHe is remembered as the journalist and art critic for the French satirical newspaper \"Le Charivari\", who coined the term \"impressionists\" to satirise the artists now known by the word.\n\nLeroy's review was printed in \"Le Charivari\" on 25 April 1874 with the title \"\". The term was taken from Claude Monet's painting \"Impression: soleil levant\". Leroy's article took the form of a dialogue between two skeptical viewers of the work:\n\n\"Impression I was certain of it. I was just telling myself that, since I was impressed, there had to be some impression in it — and what freedom, what ease of workmanship! A preliminary drawing for a wallpaper pattern is more finished than this seascape.\"\n\nThe show (\"Exposition des Impressionnistes\") was held in the salon of the photographer Nadar and organized by the \"Société anonyme des peintres, sculpteurs et graveurs\" (Anonymous society of painters, sculptors and engravers), composed of Camille Pissarro, Claude Monet, Alfred Sisley, Edgar Degas, Pierre-Auguste Renoir, Paul Cézanne, Armand Guillaumin, and Berthe Morisot.\n\nThe term was subsequently adopted by the artists themselves and has now become the name of one of the most influential art movements in history.\n\n"}
{"id": "2136533", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2136533", "title": "Eddie Perfect", "text": "Eddie Perfect\n\nEddie Perfect (born 17 December 1977) is an Australian singer-songwriter, pianist, comedian, writer and actor.\n\nWidely known for his role as Mick Holland in Channel Ten's TV series \"Offspring\" in which he performs his own music, he has recorded solo albums and written and performed numerous cabaret shows, including \"Songs from the Middle\" with the Brodsky Quartet. His biographical musical comedy \"\" won the 2009 Helpmann Award for Best New Australian Work, a Victorian Premier's Literary Award and a Green Room Award. Following his songwriting career on Broadway, where he composed \"Beetlejuice\" and \"King Kong\", Perfect returned to Australia where he will star as Franklin Hart Jr. in Dolly Parton's musical \"9 to 5\" later this year.\n\nHe was educated at St Bede's College, in Mentone, Victoria where he was the dux of the school in 1995. He undertook a Bachelor of Arts at the Western Australian Academy of Performing Arts, graduating in 2001.\n\nEddie is married to Lucy Cochran (sister of composer and pianist Julian Cochran) and has two daughters, Kitty and Lottie Lux.\n\nKnown for his political comedy, he has appeared on Australian TV shows including \"Kath & Kim\", \"Spicks and Specks\", \"Good News Week\", \"Stingers\", \"Blue Heelers\", \"MDA\", \"The Melbourne Comedy Festival Gala\" and \"The Sideshow\". Perfect released the solo albums \"Welcome to the Inside of Ed's Head\" and \"Angry Eddie\", which was released after his appearance on the anti-Howard Government compilation \"Rock Against Howard\". He was awarded the best entertainer in \"The Bulletin\"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s Brightest 100 Australians for his caustic lyrics, impeccable timing and \"boy-next-door looks\".\n\nPerfect has appeared in live stage shows including \"The Big Con\" with veteran Australian actor and impersonator Max Gillies in 2005, and his solo show \"Drink Pepsi, Bitch!\", which satirised Australian politics and society and consumer culture. \"Drink Pepsi, Bitch!\" toured the Edinburgh Fringe, London's Menier Chocolate Factory, the Auckland Festival, the Christchurch Festival, Melbourne's Malthouse Theatre, the Adelaide Fringe Festival, and Sydney 'Cracker' Comedy Festival, although he was obliged to censor the show's title (which was amended to \"Drink Eddie Bitch!\") for his season at the Sydney Opera House due to the beverage company named in the title being a principal sponsor of the venue.\n\nIn 2007, Perfect appeared in \"Keating! the Musical\" playing several characters, including a parody of former Australian Minister for Foreign Affairs Alexander Downer.\n\nIn 2008, Perfect wrote \"\", a satire based on the life and exploits of Australian test cricketer Shane Warne. The musical had a workshop showing at the Adelaide Cabaret Festival on 17 July 2007 and the piece underwent further workshopping in early 2008 culminating in five work-in-progress showings at The Hi-Fi Bar and Ballroom as part of the Melbourne International Comedy Festival. \"Shane Warne The Musical\" premiered at the Melbourne Athenaeum Theatre on 10 December 2008 before embarking on a national tour. In 2009 the musical received the Helpmann Award for Best New Australian Work, the Green Room Award and a Victorian Premier's Literary Award. Updated to reflect new developments in Warne's life, the show enjoyed a revival at Hamer Hall in Melbourne in June 2013, directed by Simon Phillips, with Perfect in the title role and co-starring Lisa McCune, Shane Jacobson and Christie Whelan-Browne as Liz Hurley. A cast recording was released in 2014.\n\nIn November 2009, he hosted the Inside Film Awards at Sydney's Luna Park.\n\nIn 2010, he performed \"Songs from the Middle\", a song cycle inspired by Perfect's childhood in Mentone, Victoria. Eamonn Kelley in \"The Australian\" described the work as \"a poignant narrative of adult reconciliation with a place and a past from which he fled at the first opportunity, restless and with no sense of belonging\". He played the lead role of Mack the Knife in \"The Threepenny Opera\" at the Malthouse Theatre, Melbourne. In 2011 he played the same role in the Sydney Theatre Company's remount of this production. He hosted FOX8's \"Ultimate School Musical\", which he also directed. Later in the year he played the role of Mick Holland in Channel Ten's \"Offspring\" comedy-drama series. He also presented an award at the 2010 ARIA Music Awards.\n\nHis solo show \"Misanthropology\" premiered at the Spiegeltent, in January 2011, as part of the Sydney Festival. Mingling satire and homage, with Perfect's arrangements for a three-piece band, Perfect wanted to provide \"a kind of social autopsy [of our] cultural rituals.\" In targeting eco-tourists, self-righteous cyclists, and others including Barrie Kosky, Perfect tried to examine \"the qualities that have driven our evolution, such as the urge to conquer and compete, and the urge to procreate, trip us up and reveal us as the animals we really are.\" Perfect said of the show: \"Tonight I invite you to laugh and think and question humanity in all of its wondrous idiocy. Remember, healthy, cynical self-reflection is what separates us from Kyle Sandilands.\"\n\nOn 28 October 2015, it was confirmed that Perfect would be a new judge on \"Australia's Got Talent\" for its eighth season.\n\nIn December 2019, Perfect wrote a song for Tourism Australia's new advertising campaign targeting British audiences. It debuted prior to the Queen's annual Christmas message.\n\nIn 2015, Perfect moved to New York to pursue a career on Broadway, where he met with John Buzzetti, the American agent for fellow Australian songwriter and comedian Tim Minchin, a close friend of Perfect. Since moving to New York, Perfect has written songs for two Broadway musicals during the 2018–19 season; \"King Kong\" (which opened at the Broadway Theatre in October 2018, and closed in August 2019) and \"Beetlejuice\" (which opened at the Winter Garden Theatre in April 2019, following a pre-Broadway tryout at the National Theatre in Washington D.C. in October 2018).\n\nFollowing Perfect's success in New York, he planned to return to the stage to star in the Australian Premier of Dolly Parton's musical, 9 to 5 in the leading role of Franklin Hart Jr. The show was due to begin previews at Sydney's Lyric Theatre on 19 April 2020, before touring to Melbourne's Her Majesty's Theatre from 25 July. However, due to the global coronavirus pandemic, the production has been indefinitely postponed\n\n\n\nThe Helpmann Awards is for live performance in Australia and are awarded annually by Live Performance Australia. \nThe Tony Award is for live performance on Broadway and are awarded annually by American Theatre Wing and The Broadway League.\n"}
{"id": "2136539", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2136539", "title": "Pino Rauti", "text": "Pino Rauti\n\nGiuseppe Umberto \"Pino\" Rauti (19 November 1926 – 2 November 2012) was an Italian politician who was a leading figure on the far-right for many years, although Rauti described himself as leftist and non-fascist. Involved in active politics since 1948, he was one of founders and, for many years, the leader of the Italian Social Movement (MSI). He was the main representative of the MSI's left-wing.\n\nRauti was born in Cardinale, Calabria. As a youth Rauti volunteered for the Guardia Nazionale Repubblicana of the Italian Social Republic before briefly going into exile with the Spanish Foreign Legion. Rauti returned to Italy in 1946 and joined the Italian Social Movement (MSI) two years later. He became a leading member of the party and also joined the New European Order initiative. He became associated with Julius Evola and, along with Enzo Erra, served as editor of his journal \"Imperium\". Such was Rauti's support for Evola's philosophy that his own theoretical writings demonstrated so much of his mentor's influences as to be at times plagiarism.\n\nIn 1954 he established his own group within the MSI based around the \"Imperium\" group, the Ordine Nuovo. However Rauti became disillusioned with the MSI, particularly after the party supported the presidency bid of Giovanni Gronchi and the premiership of Giuseppe Pella, and so his group split off at the 1956 party conference, with Rauti launching a tirade of abuse at the MSI leadership as he left.\n\nAlongside his political career Rauti was also the subject of a series of allegations linking him to the terror campaigns associated with the 'strategy of tension'. A noted anti-communist, Rauti sought to use a twin-track approach against the communists, with both strands calling for violent action. He supported the old tactic of direct street fights with far left militia groups but also endorsed a process of infiltrating these groups and thus provoking them to more action and more direct confrontation with law enforcement. Rauti hoped that his policy would create an atmosphere of civil unrest that he hoped would be more conducive to a neo-fascist takeover.\n\nRauti's name cropped up in the inquiry into the Piazza Fontana bombing whilst he had also been named as having attended high-level terrorism planning meetings in Padua in 1969. The Treviso magistrates brought Rauti to trial in 1972 over possible involvement in the Piazza Fontana attack but ultimately he was acquitted due to a lack of evidence. Rauti was aided in this by being able to provide an alibi for the Padua meeting.\n\nRauti was known to be close to Mario Merlino and by extension was linked to Merlino's close comrade Stefano Delle Chiaie. He also collaborated with former \"Ordine Nuovo\" member Franco Freda, producing a series of pamphlets with him in the 1960s. Some documents have also claimed that Rauti was either a 'contact' or a paid informer for the head of the \"Servizio Informazioni Difesa\", which was itself linked to the strategy of tension. It has also been suggested that he was responsible for setting up the \"Nuclei Armati Rivoluzionari\" along with Guido Giannettini. However, there was never any concrete evidence to link Rauti to terrorism and he was never convicted of any offences.\n\nRauti returned to the MSI in 1969 and was given a seat on the Central Committee by Giorgio Almirante. Rauti's move was condemned by Clemente Graziani, who continued to lead a rump \"Ordine Nuovo\" outside the MSI although the two men actually remained close associates. Meanwhile, Rauti was elected to the Italian Chamber of Deputies in 1972.\n\nRauti's position within the MSI was strengthened in 1977 when the main moderate faction broke away to form a new party, National Democracy. This opened space for a new Evola-based movement to gain power within the party under Rauti and he placed his emphasis on youth by organising Camp Hobbit, a series of events for young party members that were noted for having a much more casual and fun-oriented vibe than previous party youth initiatives. The event was such a success that afterwards the MSI youth movement, the \"Fronte della Gioventù\", threw their lot in with Rauti's faction. Meanwhile, his influence continued to grow when he became a leading figure in the European Parliament during the 1980s.\n\nIn 1987 Rauti, by then deputy-secretary of the MSI, was one of two candidates seeking to succeed Giorgio Almirante as leader of the MSI, the other being Gianfranco Fini. Continuing to present a policy platform based on the ideas of Evola, Rauti also demonstrated elements of Nouvelle Droite thinking, having been converted to ethnopluralism and support for nationalism in the developing world. Fini however, presenting a more moderate platform, secured the leadership by taking 727 votes to Rauti's 608.\n\nDespite his defeat Rauti's position within the party was soon strengthened. Fini looked to the success of Jean-Marie Le Pen and the Front National in France and, seeking to utilise the template they had established, sought to make opposition to immigration the central policy of the MSI. The move provoked alarm as it seemed that Fini was seeking to abandon fascism altogether and instead turn the MSI to populism. This radical departure, combined with some poor electoral showings, led to Rauti replacing Fini as leader in 1990.\n\nAs leader Rauti sought to underline the party's fascism as being a radical revolutionary creed that, he argued, should not be considered right-wing. He also underlined his opposition to the United States and Western values as well as his support for ethnopluralism. However the 3.9% of the vote captured at the 1990 regional elections represented the worst return in MSI history and a further slump in support in local elections in Sicily saw him removed from the leadership in July 1991 and replaced by Fini.\n\nRauti remained a hard-line critic of Fini's leadership until 1995 when Fini declared the dissolution of the MSI and the foundation, in its place, of the Alleanza Nazionale. Seeing this a break from the fascist heritage which he felt was central to the MSI, Rauti led a group of militants to break away and form the Fiamma Tricolore, which he saw as continuing the path of fascism. Although commentators had expected the party to be a fringe movement it polled surprisingly well in the 1996 election and even managed to capture a seat in the European Parliament in the 1999 election.\n\nRauti stood down as leader in 2002 in favour of Luca Romagnoli, who immediately adopted a policy of seeking to work with Silvio Berlusconi's House of Freedoms coalition. Rauti became a strong critic of the direction taken by Romagnoli leading to him being expelled from the party he had founded in early 2004.\n\nHe then established his own party, the Social Idea Movement.\n\nRauti died in Rome, aged 85.\n\nBesides his career in politics Rauti was also a noted journalist, joining the staff of the Rome-based daily \"Il Tempo\" in 1953. He would also act as one of the Italian correspondents for the Aginter Press.\n\nHis daughter Isabella, senator from Mantua, married Gianni Alemanno in 1992; Alemanno was Mayor of Rome for one term from 2008 to 2013; he was not re-elected into office.\n\n"}
{"id": "2136543", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2136543", "title": "List of companies of Zimbabwe", "text": "List of companies of Zimbabwe\n\nZimbabwe is a landlocked sovereign state located in southern Africa. Mineral exports, gold, agriculture, and tourism are the main foreign currency earners of Zimbabwe.\n\nThis list includes notable companies with primary headquarters located in the country. The industry and sector follow the Industry Classification Benchmark taxonomy. Organizations which have ceased operations are included and noted as defunct.\n"}
{"id": "2136544", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2136544", "title": "Cannelloni", "text": "Cannelloni\n\nCannelloni (; Italian for \"large reeds\") are a cylindrical type of lasagna generally served baked with a filling and covered by a sauce in Italian cuisine. Popular stuffings include spinach and ricotta or minced beef. The shells are then typically covered with tomato sauce.\n\nCannelloni are also a typical dish of the Catalan cuisine of Sicily, where they are called \"canelons\" and traditionally consumed on Saint Stephen's Day.\n\nEarly references to \"macheroni ripieni\" (stuffed pasta) can be traced back to 1770; but the word cannelloni seems to have appeared at the turn of the 20th century. Manicotti are the American version of cannelloni, though the term may often refer to the actual baked dish. The original difference may be that cannelloni consisted of pasta sheets wrapped around the filling, and manicotti was machine-extruded cylinders filled from one end.\n\n"}
{"id": "2136546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2136546", "title": "Rhymney River", "text": "Rhymney River\n\nThe Rhymney River () is a river in the Rhymney Valley, South Wales, flowing through Cardiff into the Severn Estuary. The river formed the boundary between the historic counties of Glamorgan and Monmouthshire until in 1887, the parishes east of the river, Rumney and St Mellons, were transferred from the jurisdiction of Newport, to Cardiff in Glamorgan.\n\nThe river runs south from its source near Rhymney through New Tredegar, Bargoed, Ystrad Mynach, Llanbradach to Caerphilly at the southern end of the Rhymney Valley. Then past Bedwas, Trethomas, Machen, Draethen, Llanrumney and Rumney and its estuary into the River Severn.\n\nThe Rhymney Valley () was created as a glacial valley. Sourced within the valley, on the southern edge of the Brecon Beacons, the Rhymney River descends steeply through the town of New Tredegar towards Ystrad Mynach, and then onwards south across a flat plain before entering the Severn Estuary to the east of Cardiff. The villages of Groesfaen, Deri, Pentwyn and Fochriw are located in the Darran Valley and not the Rhymney Valley, which joins the Rhymney Valley at Bargoed.\n\nCovering a distance of , the catchment is divided into two distinct parts:\n\nBeing located in part of the South Wales coalfield and South Wales Valleys iron producing area, the resultant black river had poor water quality through most of the 19th and 20th centuries. The river is culverted in many of its upper sections, including a tunnel under the former factory complexes in Rhymney, exiting at Pontlottyn. Since the closure of the last of the coal mines in the late 1980s, the water has become a lot cleaner and is now full of fish and insect life and supports plenty of other wildlife. The river now supports a healthy stock of grayling and natural brown trout, and a lot of work has been undertaken to remove former industrial restrictions on the river to allow the fish to gain access to its upper reaches. The river is in the care of Natural Resources Wales and the South East Wales Rivers Trust.\n\n"}
{"id": "2136550", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2136550", "title": "Parrot harness", "text": "Parrot harness\n\nA parrot harness or bird flight harness is a type of pet harness that is specifically designed to be worn by a parrot. A parrot harness may enable a companion parrot to be taken outdoors while restraining it and preventing it from flying away. Some parrots may dislike wearing a harness and bite at it, but parrots that are harness-trained from a very young age may accept them willingly; more often, though, parrots must be very carefully and gradually accustomed and trained to wear a harness. Care must be taken that the parrot does not feel threatened. Properly trained parrots often appear to enjoy wearing their harnesses if they associate them with going outdoors.\n\nIf the harness is attached to a long leash, the parrot can be given some limited flight outside. However, this can be potentially dangerous for the parrot, which may be initially frightened by unfamiliar events, noises, and objects. It is usually best to first take the parrot out in a cage or carrier to let it become accustomed to being outdoors. Parrot harnesses are available commercially in a range of brands and sizes, fitting small birds such as budgerigars and cockatiels, all the way up to the largest macaws and cockatoos. Some parrot owners may choose to make their own harnesses.\n\nHeavy harnesses that require assembly with metal buckles and clips can be uncomfortable. They may be broken or unlatched by some larger birds with strong beaks. A leash should always be fastened securely to the person holding the leash (such as by an elastic band around the wrist) to avoid the possibility of dropping the leash, as a dropped leash may become entangled in a tree or other object if a parrot flies off. A harness should only be used when the parrot is supervised and should never be used to tether a parrot to a perch or other object.\n\nThe best way to train a parrot to wear a harness is to use positive and negative reinforcement. Negative reinforcement is used to reward the parrot until it overcomes its fear of the harness. Food treats are used as positive reinforcement to reward the parrot for putting on the harness. A well trained parrot will put the harness on itself by slipping its head through the collar.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2136553", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2136553", "title": "Niumataiwalu", "text": "Niumataiwalu\n\nNiumataiwalu was a Verata high chief who was then the leader of the Vuanirewa clan in Lau. The name Niumataiwalu, translated as 'I came first at Walu beach' was in memory of his grandfather-Tuivanuakula 2 or Tuinaosara (also known as Kubunavanua) for winning the leadership race competition among Rokomautu's seventeen (17) grandchildren at Walu beach, Verata. He was the father of Uluilakeba 1 \n\nQoma was the elder brother of Delaivugalei; the latter the father of Niumataiwalu. Both were sons of Kalouyalewa, who was the brother of Buivaroro (the second Tui Nayau), and they had one sister, Adi Keletu was married to Noco in Rewa. Kalouyalewa's father was Tuivanuakula 2 and otherwise known as Tuinaosara. \n\nNiumataiwalu killed his uncle Qoma and his sons, in retribution for the murder of his own parents and sibling. This series of events eventually paved the way for his descendants overlordship of both these islands and the rest of Lau. In establishing his dynasty he is often recognised as the first Vuanirewa high chief or Roko Sau of the Lau Islands.\n\nTraditional legend has it that Niumataiwalu was renowned not only for his valour in battle but also for his beauty. This latter attribute would eventually attract the attention of one of the noble ladies of Bau, causing an illicit affair and leading to his eventual demise, for the lady was Adi Davila of Nairai, the Radini Levuka, wife of the Vunivalu or Paramount Chief of the Kubuna Confederacy. The adulterous affair did not come to light until the Radini Levuka, Adi Davila realized she was pregnant, and though she and her child, Banuve Baleivavalagi, were not harmed, the Vunivalu bided his time and planned revenge for this offence upon himself and his noble household. He tendered the support of two Ono-i-Lau chiefs, Saunikalou and Radua who were visiting Bau at the time and were subjects of Niumataiwalu, by presenting them with a tabua made of black stone and requesting for the murder of their overlord.\n\nIn time Niumataiwalu visited Matokano Village in Ono-i-Lau and a welcoming feast was accordingly prepared for him. This was also an occasion the two conspiring chiefs saw as an opportunity to exact the earlier instructions of the Vunivalu. As all weapons were forbidden in the area where the kava ceremony was to take place, Saunikalou hid a war club in a hollowed out banana stem and instructed his young son to play with it as a toy where the ceremony occurred. When the first appropriations of kava drink was being given to Niumataiwalu, unsuspecting he lowered his head, at which the same time Saunikalou grabbed the hidden weapon and struck him. The first blow did not kill Niumataiwalu, and he fled towards the beach in the hope of gaining aid from some of his men. He was however overpowered by Saunikalou and his men, and was clubbed to death.\n\nLocal legend states that the area where Niumataiwalu was killed is cursed for the spilling of his noble blood. The vegetation in this area called \"\"Cuga\"\" still retains a whitish tinge amidst a surrounding area of deep green, as it is believed by locals to be cursed. Due to its tragic history, this area is the only place on the island not belonging to the people of Ono-i-Lau as it traditionally belongs to the Vuanirewa and remains so today. In the 20th century, the Vuanirewa descendants of Niumataiwalu made attempts to retrieve his remains for reburial in Tubou, Lakeba.\n\nNiumataiwalu had three wives from which he had many children. Four of his sons would eventually in turn succeed to his title. The recorded wives and children of this chief in order of seniority were:\n\n"}
{"id": "2136556", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2136556", "title": "Earle Labor", "text": "Earle Labor\n\nEarle Labor (b. March, 1928) is George Wilson Professor (Emeritus) of American Literature at Centenary College of Louisiana. His research and teaching career have been devoted to the study of the American author, Jack London. He taught the first undergraduate course devoted to London at Utah State University in 1966. Labor taught the first-ever graduate course on London in 1973-74 (University of Aarhus, Denmark) while on a Fulbright Scholarship.\n\nLabor received his B.A. and M.A. from Southern Methodist University in 1949 and 1952, respectively. He received his Ph.D from the University of Wisconsin in 1961. He is the founder and curator of The Jack London Museum and Research Center at Centenary College. Classes he has taught include: a seminar on Jack London; a class on American gothic fiction 'The Power of Darkness'; a seminar on the American novel; a two-semester survey course on American literature; and several classes on Critical Approaches to Literature. \"Jack London: An American Life\" received the 2014 Western Writers of America Spur Award for Best Nonfiction Biography.\n\nIn 1991, Labor received the \"Humanist of the Year Award\" from the Louisiana Endowment for the Humanities.\n\nIn 2016, the DeGolyer Library at Southern Methodist University published Labor's memoir, \"The Far Music\".\n\nGREAT SHORT WORKS OF JACK LONDON, Harper Perennial Classics Series, Editor (Harper & Row, 1965; rev. ed., 1970).\n\nA HANDBOOK OF CRITICAL APPROACHES TO LITERATURE, Co-Author with Wilfred L. Guerin, et al. (Harper & Row, 1966; 6th ed. Oxford UP, 2011).\n\nMANDALA: LITERATURE FOR CRITICAL ANALYSIS, Co-Editor with Guerin, et al. (Harper & Row, 1970).\n\nTHE FUTURE OF COLLEGE ENGLISH: A CEA CHAP BOOK, Editor (The College English Association, 1972).\n\nTUSAS JACK LONDON (Twayne, 1974; rev. ed. with Jeanne Campbell Reesman, 1994).\n\nJACK LONDON: A KLONDIKE TRILOGY, Editor (Neville, 1983).\n\nLIT: LITERATURE AND INTERPRETIVE TECHNIQUES, Co-Editor with Guerin, et al. (Harper & Row, 1986).\n\nTHE LETTERS OF JACK LONDON, 3 Vols., Co-Editor with Robert C. Leitz and I. Milo Shepard (Stanford UP, 1988).\n\nTHE CALL OF THE WILD, WHITE FANG, AND OTHER STORIES BY JACK LONDON, Co-Editor with Leitz, World's Classics Series (Oxford UP, 1990).\n\nTHE STORIES OF JACK LONDON: AUTHORIZED ONE-VOLUME EDITION, Co-Editor with Robert Leitz and I. Milo Shepard (Macmillan, 1991).\n\nTHE COMPLETE STORIES OF JACK LONDON, 3 Vols., Co-Editor with Robert Leitz and I. Milo Shepard (Stanford UP, 1993).\n\nTHE PORTABLE JACK LONDON, Editor (Viking/Penguin, 1994).\n\nTO BUILD A FIRE AND OTHER STORIES, Afterword, World's Best Reading Series (Reader's Digest Association, 1994).\n\nIN THE STEPS OF JACK LONDON by Vil Bykov, Co-Editor with Susan Nuernberg and Hensley C. Woodbridge (www.jacklondons.net, 2005).\n\nJACK LONDON: THE SEA-WOLF AND SELECTED STORIES, Introduction, Signet Classics (New American Library, Penguin, 2013).\n\nJACK LONDON: AN AMERICAN LIFE (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, 2013). Received Western Writers of America Golden Spur Award as Best Western Non-Fiction Biography.\n\nTHE FAR MUSIC: A MEMOIR (DeGolyer Library, SMU, 2016). Celebrates the unique but neglected “Era of Bright Expectations” in America between the end of WWII and beginning of the Korean War (1945-1950).\n\nJACK LONDON: THE CALL OF THE WILD, WHITE FANG, AND SELECTED STORIES, Introduction, Penguin Classics Series (Penguin/Random House, November, 2019).\n\n"}
{"id": "2136586", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2136586", "title": "Ivor Emmanuel", "text": "Ivor Emmanuel\n\nIvor Lewis Emmanuel (7 November 1927 – 20 July 2007) was a Welsh musical theatre and television singer and actor. He is probably best remembered, however, for his appearance as \"Private Owen\" in the 1964 film \"Zulu\", in which his character rallies outnumbered British soldiers by leading them in the stirring Welsh battle hymn \"Men of Harlech\" to counter the Zulu war chants.\n\nAfter losing his parents at an early age, Emmanuel began working as a coal miner. He developed a keen interest in music and singing, however, and was drawn to the stage. At the age of 20, he had his first professional theatre job in the musical \"Oklahoma!\". He served as a chorister for the D'Oyly Carte Opera Company in 1950–1951 but soon went on to play small roles in the West End productions of \"South Pacific\", \"The King and I\" and \"Plain and Fancy\". His first leading role was Joe Hardy in \"Damn Yankees\" (1957), followed by a tour as Woody Mahoney in \"Finian's Rainbow\". In 1966, he appeared on Broadway in \"A Time for Singing\" and then in the West End in \"110 in the Shade\". He continued to play in summer seasons of theatre and in cabaret and variety into the 1980s.\n\nDuring the late 1950s, he participated in the Welsh language singing television programme \"Dewch i Mewn\", and from 1958 to 1964 was lead singer on the TWW show, \"Gwlad y Gan\" (\"Land of Song\"), among other TV shows. In 1960, he performed in the first televised edition of the Royal Variety Performance. He continued to perform on TV through the 1970s. He also performed in concerts and is heard on cast recordings of \"Show Boat\", \"Kiss Me, Kate\", \"The King and I\" and \"A Time for Singing\". He is also featured on the box set, \"The Greatest Musicals of the 20th Century\", on the 1966 RCA Victrola recording of \"The Pirates of Penzance\", and in a solo album, \"The Best of Ivor Emmanuel\".\n\nEmmanuel was born in Margam, near Port Talbot, Wales, and moved to the nearby village of Pontrhydyfen as a young child. He was 14 years old when his father, mother, sister and grandfather were killed by a stray bomb that hit their village during World War II. A 2001 documentary programme about the incident was made by S4C (Sianel Pedwar Cymru). His aunt Flossie took him in (his younger brother John lived with an uncle), and he began working in the coal mine like his father and grandfather before him.\n\nEmmanuel developed a keen interest in music and singing and was a member of Pontrhydyfen Operatic Society. He used to carry a wind-up gramophone up nearby mountains to listen to recordings of Enrico Caruso.\n\nAt the age of 20, Emmanuel unsuccessfully auditioned for The D'Oyly Carte Opera Company. He took solace by drinking with an old friend Richard Burton, who was performing in \"The Lady's Not for Burning\" at the time in London, and telling him how desperate he was to break into show business. Two weeks later a telegram arrived from Burton telling him to be at the Theatre Royal, Drury Lane the following day for an audition. He was cast in the musical \"Oklahoma!\".\n\nEmmanuel was eventually hired by the D'Oyly Carte Opera Company as a chorister in March 1950, staying until August 1951 when he married fellow D'Oyly Carte chorister Jean Beazleigh. He was assigned the small role of Associate in \"Trial by Jury\" and shared the larger one of Luiz in \"The Gondoliers\". He and Beazleigh had two children, a girl Sian and a boy Simon.\n\nEmmanuel's masculine looks and ringing baritone voice suited him for musicals, and he soon took principal roles in the West End. At the Drury Lane, he played Sgt. Kenneth Johnson in the hit production of \"South Pacific\" (1951–53), then played small roles in two more long-running shows, \"The King and I\" and \"Plain and Fancy\". At the London Coliseum, he finally got a leading role, playing Joe Hardy in \"Damn Yankees\" (1957) and then played Woody Mahoney in \"Finian's Rainbow\" in Liverpool and on a short tour. In the early 1960s, Emmanuel continued to perform in pantomime and cabaret. In 1966, he appeared on Broadway as Mr. Gruffydd, the minister, in \"A Time for Singing\", a musical version of Richard Llewellyn's novel \"How Green Was My Valley\", but the show ran for only 41 performances. The following year he played his last West End role in \"110 in the Shade\", at the Palace Theatre. He continued to play in summer seasons of theatre and in cabaret and variety, particularly at holiday resorts, into the 1980s.\n\nEmmanuel also had a successful career as a popular concert and recording artist and television personality. During the late 1950s, he made his breakthrough into television. He took part in a Welsh language singing programme called \"Dewch i Mewn\" and from 1958 to 1964 was lead singer on the TWW show, \"Gwlad y Gan\" (\"Land of Song\"), acting as an older brother figure for the Pontcanna Children's Choir. The show was broadcast across the UK once a month and regularly attracted an audience of some ten million people, helping to popularize the Welsh language. Emmanuel later performed on, and was an interviewer for, other TWW shows.\n\nIn May 1960, Emmanuel performed in the first televised edition of the Royal Variety Performance. Other performers at that performance included The Crazy Gang, Benny Hill, Frankie Howerd, Vera Lynn, Sammy Davis Jr., Nat King Cole and Liberace. He continued, through the 1970s, to make numerous television appearances.\n\nEmmanuel's record output included the 1959 studio cast recordings of \"Show Boat\", \"Kiss Me, Kate\" and \"The King and I\", and the 1966 Broadway original cast recording of \"A Time for Singing\" as David Griffith (Gruffydd). He is also featured on the five-disc box set, \"The Greatest Musicals of the 20th Century,\" where it says of him, \"one singer who really stands out on this volume is the Welsh baritone Ivor Emmanuel ... [h]e was of the same era and very much in the fine tradition of the great American musical theatre baritones: Howard Keel, John Raitt and Gordon Macrae.\" He was featured as Frederic on the 1966 RCA Victrola recording of \"The Pirates of Penzance\", which starred Martyn Green. He also made his own album of 24 songs, \"The Best of Ivor Emmanuel\".\n\nIn 1964, Emmanuel appeared as \"Private Owen\" in the epic film \"Zulu\", which launched the career of Michael Caine. Emmanuel's character rallies the outnumbered British soldiers on the barricade at Rorke's Drift in 1879 by leading the men in the stirring Welsh battle hymn \"Men of Harlech\" to counter the Zulu war chants. The same year, he married actress Patricia Bredin, but they had no children, and the marriage ended in divorce less than two years later. He later married Malinee Oppenborn, and the couple had one daughter, Emily.\n\nEmmanuel retired to a quiet life in Benalmadena, a village near Málaga on Spain's Costa del Sol, in 1984 with his wife. There he was filmed for an HTV television profile, \"Its My Life: Man of Song\" (broadcast on 14 July 1997). In 1991, Emmanuel lost his life's savings of £220,000 in the collapse of the Bank of Credit and Commerce International. In 2006, he appeared in a BBC TV documentary with fellow Welsh singer Bryn Terfel. Emmanuel died of a stroke in Málaga, aged 79. He was survived by his wife, Malinee, and his three children.\n\n"}
{"id": "2136612", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2136612", "title": "Railpower Technologies", "text": "Railpower Technologies\n\nRailpower Technologies Corp. is a subsidiary of R.J. Corman Railroad Group that builds environmentally friendly hybrid Green Goat and Genset switching locomotives, founded by Frank Donnelly and Gerard Koldyk. Its locomotives have been purchased by Canadian Pacific Railway, BNSF Railway, Kansas City Southern Railway and Union Pacific Railroad among others.\n\nThe company was founded in 2001 in Vancouver, British Columbia, and incorporated an automotive propulsion system into a new hybrid yard locomotive, dubbed the \"Green Goat.\" The unit was built off the frame of an EMD GP9, and was powered by a diesel engine charging a bank of 320 lead-acid batteries, producing . This first unit underwent extensive testing and demonstration in both Canada and the United States for a year, in conjunction with a smaller unit, called the \"Green Kid.\" The demonstrations were a success, and combined with the introduction of government programs providing assistance to railroads introducing low-emissions locomotives, provided impetus for railroads to adopt Railpower's design, particularly in areas such as Texas and California, where such laws were particularly stringent. Initially, Railpower's products were well received, and the company had 175 total orders by late 2005, consisting of both the original hybrid locomotives and newer genset locomotives, which have multiple engines operating in tandem and have the capability to selectively shut down engines to reduce fuel consumption.\nDespite the company's early success, sales soon dropped off, largely because of reliability issues with the locomotives (one customer, Canadian Pacific, returned its order due to unsatisfactory performance) and a general slowdown in sales of switching locomotives. As a result of the drop-off in sales, Railpower entered bankruptcy in early 2009, and was purchased by the R.J. Corman Railroad Group during the summer of the same year.\n\nOn June 18, 2009, R.J. Corman Railroad Group announced that it had completed its acquisition of Railpower's assets, although none of the company's liabilities. As a result of the acquisition, customers of Railpower were forced to renegotiate servicing contracts with Corman, as the warranties on the locomotives ceased when the old company was purchased.\nCorman plans to market genset locomotives exclusively, although company executives have not ruled out hybrid locomotives, saying that though they haven't been abandoned, they are not a priority. In the eight months after Railpower's acquisition, the company has delivered just two locomotives, although according to Corman, proposals have been issued for up to 50 locomotives during the next few years, and the company is confident that orders will resume.\n\nRailpower delivered a single RP20D unit to the Port of Montreal in October 2010, followed by two more in the first quarter of 2012 and a fourth to follow later in the year.\n\nR.J. Corman Railpower announced the closure of the Erie, Pennsylvania operation, this will take effect on February 29, 2020.\n\nTheir locomotive models include the Green Goat (GG) and Green Kid (GK) series. Created from older locomotives, these units are deployed in services where there is a lot of idle time, such as yard switching. Below the frame they are the same as their pre-recycled locomotive. Above the frame they are new, with all new hood and cab assemblies. A small generator and a large bank of batteries power the locomotive. The generator is used to recharge the batteries. The locomotives meet the new EPA exhaust emissions standards. Currently production includes the GG10B, GG20B, and GK10B locomotives. The \"B\" indicates B-B wheel arrangement the \"10\" or \"20\" signifies respectively.\n\nRailpower also produces a series of \"Genset\" type locomotives, which are powered by between 2 and 4 smaller diesel engines each. The engines are computer controlled, with the computer stopping and starting engines on a rotating basis, as required to produce the horsepower needed at any given moment.\nCurrently on the market are the RP20BH (two-engine hybrid) and RP20BD (three engine diesel) locomotives for light road duties. The \"B\" or \"C\" in the model number signifies B-B, or C-C wheel arrangement, with the \"14\", \"20\" or \"27\" signifying , respectively. Some of the units built for BNSF have virtually no cab at all, as BNSF specified the locomotives to be equipped with remote control technology.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2136614", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2136614", "title": "Pensacola Christian Academy", "text": "Pensacola Christian Academy\n\nPensacola Christian Academy (PCA) is a private Christian school serving elementary through high school grades. It is located in Pensacola, Florida, United States.\n\nThe school was founded as Pensacola Christian School in 1954 by Arlin Horton (who later established Pensacola Christian College) and his wife Beka. PCS began in a three classroom building, offering only three classes from kindergarten through second grade. One grade was added each year until the school reached 9th grade. In the early days PCS was one of the only schools with air-conditioned class rooms. Grades ten through twelve were added after the school was moved to a larger facility in the mid 1960s.\n\nIn 1994 PCS completed a new state-of-the-art facility located on Brent Lane in Pensacola. Following the move to the new facility Pensacola Christian School changed its name to Pensacola Christian Academy.\n\nPCA is an evangelical Christian school using A Beka Book curriculum. The school is accredited through the Florida Association of Christian Colleges and Schools, an accrediting body for Christian schools. Since its inception the school has remained dedicated to using \"traditional methods\" such as phonics for teaching reading and the art of cursive for penmanship. Although criticized by some, PCA begins teaching cursive form of writing as early as kindergarten. PCA believes that forming a firm foundation for the very basic skills is important for learning more advanced skills later in education and later in life.\n\nGirls are only allowed to wear skirts or dresses that do not rise above their knees (7-12th only) and shirts that do not show their stomach. Boys can wear pants. Boys cannot wear shorts (7th-12th only). For girls most jewelry is permitted. Cartilage/facial/tongue/lip/eyebrow/belly button piercings are not permitted. No words are allowed on the clothing, unless they are able to be covered by one or two fingers.\n\nPensacola Christian Academy is associated with Pensacola Christian College, and is utilized extensively by the PCC Education Department as a training grounds in all PCC Education Majors. All PCC Education internships as well as many classroom observation practicums are held within the PCA facility.\n\nThe A Beka Books curriculum which is marketed to home schoolers and private Christian schools throughout the world is named for the co-founder of the Pensacola Christian Academy, Beka Horton. The curriculum was developed within PCA and is the curriculum used solely by the school. A Beka Books textbooks are written from a conservative Christian perspective and are available to home schoolers and Christian schools for purchase through the A Beka Books website.\n\nIn addition to A Beka Books, PCA also is affiliated with A Beka Academy, a correspondence school system that uses the A Beka Books curriculum. The A Beka Academy features DVDs of PCA teachers recorded while teaching live classes at PCA. All student test scores and grades for those enrolled in A Beka Academy are sent to and recorded at the A Beka Academy offices. On completion of the 12th grade, a home-schooled student of A Beka Academy may graduate.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2136616", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2136616", "title": "Salter Hayden", "text": "Salter Hayden\n\nSalter Adrian Hayden, (May 31, 1896 – January 5, 1987) was a Canadian lawyer and senator.\n\nBorn in Ottawa, he received his education from the University of Ottawa and Osgoode Hall Law School. He joined the law firm of McCarthy and McCarthy (now McCarthy Tétrault) in 1923 and became a partner in 1929. He resigned from the firm in 1983. He ran unsuccessfully in the Toronto riding of St. Paul's in the 1935 federal election. In 1940, he was awarded an honorary doctoral degree from the University of Ottawa.\n\nHe was appointed to the Senate in February 1940 by Prime Minister Mackenzie King, representing the senatorial division of Toronto, Ontario. He sat as a Liberal and was the chairman of the Canadian Senate Standing Committee on Banking, Trade and Commerce.\n\nAlong with Senator William Daum Euler, Hayden helped change the law that had prohibited the sale of margarine in Canada. Of note, this was the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council's (JCPC) last case under the trade and commerce power of the BNA Act, and one of the last six judgements on a Canadian issue.\n\nDuring the 1970s, he helped extend Senate rule, 74.(1). This procedure had arisen in the 1940s to allow for early Senate examination of potential supply bills. At the initiative of Senator Hayden, this practice was broadened to apply to other bills, and it has since been referred to as the “Hayden formula.” This allows the Senate to pre-study the subject matter, and to form an initial opinion of a bill that has been introduced in the House of Commons, even before it has been adopted for its first reading in the Senate. When the bill is received, the Senate can adopt or amend it in a timely manner.\n\nHe resigned from the Senate on November 1, 1983 due to ill health.\n\nOn December 29, 1986, Hayden was made an Officer of the Order of Canada. He died a week later at age 90.\n"}
{"id": "2136617", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2136617", "title": "Orefield, Pennsylvania", "text": "Orefield, Pennsylvania\n\nOrefield is a small unincorporated community in Lehigh County, Pennsylvania, United States, split between North Whitehall and South Whitehall township. Located along Pennsylvania Route 309, Orefield has the zip code of 18069. Its name is derived from the extensive deposits of limonite (iron ore) once mined here. It was once the terminus of the Siegersville Branch of the Ironton Railroad, which was extended here to haul the ore.\n\nOrefield is the former home to Parkland High School. It is a part of the Lehigh Valley and is only a few miles outside of Allentown. It is surrounded by many suburban housing developments, many of which were former farms operated by the Pennsylvania Dutch whose influence in the community is waning. There are many covered bridges nearby which cross the Jordan Creek.\n\nLocated near Orefield is a large factory for Alpo Dog Food, which has been owned by the Ralston Purina Company since the 1990s. Also located nearby are the Jaindl turkey farms; Orefield's turkey farms provide the already-slaughtered turkeys that are presented to the president each Thanksgiving (the live turkeys that are pardoned at the same presentation come from rotating locations). Located in Orefield is Shankweiler's Drive-In, the second drive-in ever built (1934) and America's oldest operating drive-in theater.\n\nOrefield is served by the Parkland School District, which has Orefield Middle School in the village. The district's high school was located in Orefield until 1999, when it moved to Cedar Crest Boulevard to the east. Kernsville Elementary School is located just west of the village.\n\n"}
{"id": "2136620", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2136620", "title": "Ernst von Wildenbruch", "text": "Ernst von Wildenbruch\n\nErnst von Wildenbruch (3 February 184515 January 1909) was a German poet and dramatist.\n\nWildenbruch was born at Beirut in Lebanon, the son of the Prussian consul-general, Ludwig von Wildenbruch, who was himself an illegitimate son of Prince Louis Ferdinand of Prussia. Having passed his early years at Athens and Constantinople, where his father was attached to the Prussian legation, he came in 1857 to the Kingdom of Prussia, received his early schooling at the Padagogium at Halle and the Französische Gymnasium in Berlin, and, after passing through the cadet school, became, in 1863, an officer in the Prussian Army.\nTwo years later Wildenbruch abandoned his military career, but was recalled to the colors in 1866 for the Austro-Prussian War. He next studied law at the University of Berlin, and again served in the army during the Franco-Prussian War (1870–71).\n\nIn 1876 Wildenbruch was attached to the foreign office, which he finally quit in 1900 with the title of counsellor of legation. He achieved his first literary successes with the epics \"Vionville\" (1874) and \"Sedan\" (1875). After publishing a volume of poems, \"Lieder und Balladen\" (1877), he produced, in 1882, the tragedy \"Die Karolinger\". \n\nWildenbruch married Maria Karoline von Weber, daughter of the engineer Max Maria von Weber and niece to Carl Maria von Weber, in 1885. The couple had no children.\n\nWildenbruch's dramas include the tragedy \"Harold\" (1882); \"Die Quitzows\" (1888); \"Der Generalfeldoberst\" (1889); \"Die Haubenlerche\" (1891); \"Heinrich und Heinrichs Geschlecht\" (1895); \"Die Tochter des Erasmus\" (1900); and \"König Laurin\" (1902). He also wrote several volumes of short stories (\"Novellen\", 1883; \"Neue Novellen\", 1885; \"Tiefe Wasser\", 1897, and others). He was twice (in 1884 and 1896) awarded the Schiller Prize, and was, in 1892, made a doctor of philosophy \"honoris causa\" by the University of Jena.\n\nHe died at Berlin in 1909.\n\nAttribution:\n"}
{"id": "2136625", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2136625", "title": "Discovery Cove", "text": "Discovery Cove\n\nDiscovery Cove is a theme park owned and operated by SeaWorld Parks & Entertainment, and located in Orlando, Florida. It is the sister park of SeaWorld Orlando and Aquatica Orlando. Visitors to the park can interact with a range of marine animals including bottlenose dolphins.\n\nThe main experience at Discovery Cove is swimming with a dolphin, where visitors can “talk, touch, play and swim” with bottlenose dolphins.\n\nThe park contains a free-flight aviary, which contains over 250 tropical birds including parrots, toucans, and over 30 other species of exotic birds. The heated Tropical River runs through the aviary and circles the park, allowing guests to float past an assortment of the Discovery Cove’s beaches, waterfalls, and rainforest landscape. The Tropical River runs into the park’s freshwater resort pool.\n\nIn June 2011, the park expanded with the opening of The Grand Reef. This reef was needed due to the original reef having a persistent salt water leak, which affected the ground water, and replaced the original reef with Freshwater Oasis. The Grand Reef features a white-sand beach, palm-lined island and underwater grottos filled with moray eels, reef sharks and scores of other tropical fish. Activities range from snorkeling with eagle rays to crossing a rope bridge over a shark-filled lagoon.\n\nDiscovery Cove admission is all-inclusive and options include tickets to SeaWorld Orlando, Aquatica Orlando, and Busch Gardens Tampa. Three different admission options are offered by the park, including the dolphin-swim, non-dolphin-swim and “Trainer for a Day” packages. Reservations for Discovery Cove are required and a maximum of 1300 guests can be present in the park at any one time. Discounts are often available for Florida Residents.\n\n"}
{"id": "2136630", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2136630", "title": "Landscape (band)", "text": "Landscape (band)\n\nLandscape was an English synthpop band, best known for the 1981 hits \"Einstein a Go-Go\" and \"Norman Bates\". Formed in London in 1974, the band toured constantly during the mid-to-late-1970s, playing rock, punk and jazz venues and releasing two instrumental EPs on its own Event Horizon label. The group began experimenting with computer-programmed music and electronic drums in the late 1970s and early 1980s, making records in the emerging genre of synthpop.\n\nLandscape comprised Richard James Burgess (vocals, drums), Christopher Heaton (keyboards), Andy Pask (bass), Peter Thoms (trombone, keyboards), and John Walters (keyboards, woodwinds). The band built a following through live performances and touring before releasing their debut album \"Landscape\" in 1980. Their next album in 1981, \"From the Tea-Rooms of Mars...to the Hell-Holes of Uranus\" led to the Top 5 UK hit \"Einstein a Go-Go\". Their third album in 1982, \"Manhattan Boogie-Woogie\" was well received as a dance album. After release of this album, Heaton and Thoms left the band.\n\nFollowing the release of Landscape's third and final album, \"Manhattan Boogie-Woogie\", the band became a trio, composed of Burgess, Pask, and Walters. Renaming the band Landscape III, the members went on to release the singles \"So Good, So Pure, So Kind\" and \"You Know How to Hurt Me\". The trio broke up in 1984 and band members went on to separate careers.\n\nBurgess and Walters went on to careers in music production. Walters also co-founded Unknown Public in 1992 and works as a writer and editor. Pask worked as a sessions player and co-wrote the theme music for the long-running British ITV series \"The Bill\". Thoms later appeared on Thomas Dolby's 1984 album \"The Flat Earth\" and toured with Dolby that year playing trombone. He also served as a member of staff at the Musicians' Union's head office in Britain.\n\n\n \"U2XME1X2MUCH\" is short for \"You two-timed me one time too much\"\n\nBoth EPs were issued on Landscape's own Event Horizon label.\n\n\nRecorded for an April 1978 Peel Session.\n\n"}
{"id": "2136636", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2136636", "title": "The Optimists of Nine Elms", "text": "The Optimists of Nine Elms\n\nThe Optimists of Nine Elms, also known as The Optimists, is a 1973 British drama film starring Peter Sellers and directed by Anthony Simmons, who also wrote the 1964 novel upon which the film is based. The film is about an old street musician (played by Sellers) who strikes up a friendship with two children - Liz, played by Donna Mullane, and her younger brother Mark, played by John Chaffey. Neither of the child actors was featured in future films. A young Keith Chegwin also played a small role.\n\nMullane was recruited for her role by the film crew when they were scouting locations and saw her as she was walking home from school\n\nThe story revolves around Sam, a dignified, former music hall artist who now works with his elderly trained dog Bella, busking in the West End of London. He lives in a run down goods yard alongside a derelict canal in Nine Elms. Two young children, Liz and Mark, stumble upon his yard whilst out walking. He chases them away, but his manner attracts their attention and, despite his best efforts, they later follow him as he goes off to work pushing his dog and all his busking paraphernalia in an Edwardian pram. Liz and Mark live nearby with their parents, Chrissie and Bob, and baby brother James in a drab, cramped basement flat. Bob works at the local gasworks and the family are desperate to move to a new Council flat. When they're out of school, their mother has little time for Liz and Mark and they find their own adventures together on the streets.\n\nBegrudgingly, Sam develops a relationship with the children as they tag along. Having mentioned it in passing, he agrees to take them to visit the pet cemetery in Hyde Park, where he anticipates Bella will be buried someday after an elaborate funeral, the next day on his way to the West End. They also discuss visiting the new flats. During the following day, it becomes clear that Bella is increasingly frail and Sam is worried about her. At the new flats, he tells them how his wife died ten years previously and how his seven grown up children are now scattered all over the world. He has found human beings unreliable throughout his life and “only dogs can be depended upon”. Bella is his best friend and, although getting a new flat was all very well, getting a dog was more important. Between them, they conclude the family needs a dog and, having established the children would look after it properly, Sam agrees to help them get one.\n\nThe following afternoon, he takes them to Battersea Dogs Home where, posing as their grandfather, he helps them choose a dog. However, Sam is astounded and angry when the home tell him they can only take the dog if it is paid for. \nThe children and Sam leave the home bitterly disappointed and, having admonished the children for telling lies as “he wasn’t their grandfather”, Sam tells them they will have to ask their mum and dad for the money and leaves, humiliated. The children return home despondent and are further discouraged when their mum seems unsympathetic to the idea of getting a dog. The children resolve to try to save the money to get it anyway and make money doing odd jobs. When they next see Sam, he is crotchety, and Bella is very ill. Sam offers to pay them to baby-sit Bella while he is working and having haggled about the fee, they agree.\n\nThe following day they resolve to visit their dad at work to see if he will give them the balance to pay for their dog, but he tells them he needs to save everything he can if he is to have a hope of getting the flat. They return to Sam who, reluctant to concede that Bella's condition is terminal, agrees to give them the balance they need as an advance for more baby-sitting duties. Next day, they learn they have got the new flat and, together with Sam, collect their dog which they name Battersea. They return home later to be told they should not have bought the dog. They discover that the new flat is in Nine Elms, not the flats they had seen with Sam in Westminster, and that dogs are not allowed. The children run off to Sam's, where they find Sam drunk and in mourning for Bella. They try to give Battersea to Sam, but he rejects it and, when they talk of the majestic funeral for Bella, he laughs and tells them she will go in the dustcart. He leaves and, after tying Battersea to his table, the children take Bella's body, and at night sneak into the cemetery at Hyde Park and bury it there. They hide when their dad and Sam arrive outside the cemetery with Battersea, but fall asleep as the two talk into the night about life, death, dogs and children. When they awake the following morning Dad is overjoyed to see them and they leave Battersea with Sam.\n\n\nSimmons is said to have planned the film around the time his two award-winning short films \"Sunday By the Sea\" (1953) and \"Bow Bells\" (1954) were released. Both films were set to cockney music hall songs, lending a clear continuity between the works. Buster Keaton was to have played the lead role of Sam, however British financiers were not convinced of Keaton's box office potential and the project collapsed. The novel was first published in 1964.\n\n\"Variety\" wrote, \"It all sounds like goo, and the film’s last half-hour verges perilously close. But even at its worst \"The Optimists\" is acceptable family fare, and for much of its first 80 minutes it engagingly achieves a sense of fantasy.\" while \"The New York Times\" described the film as \"the sort of old-fashioned excursion into sentiment that ought to warm the hearts of parents in search of that elusive piece of merchandise that goes under the name of good family entertainment. Peter Sellers, with a wardrobe of old music hall clothes, a talented but aged dog named Bella and a pram he pushes around London, plays the lonely, idiosyncratic old busker. And commendably, he submerges himself sufficiently in the part to allow old Sam to have a life of his own.\"\n"}
{"id": "2136640", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2136640", "title": "Frank Wheaton", "text": "Frank Wheaton\n\nFrank (Francis) Wheaton (May 8, 1833 – June 18, 1903) was a career military officer in the United States Army during the American Civil War and Indian Wars. He also was military commander over south Texas during the Garza Revolution.\n\nWheaton was born in Providence, Rhode Island, to Dr. Francis Levison and Amelia S. Wheaton née Burrill. Dr. Francis Levison Wheaton graduated from Brown University in 1828 and served as a surgeon in the Mexican–American War and the American Civil War and as surgeon general of Rhode Island.\n\nFrank Wheaton attended Brown University, studying civil engineering, but withdrew in 1850 at the age of seventeen to take a position with Mexican-American Boundary Commission, where he worked for the next five years. On March 3, 1855, he was commissioned as a first lieutenant in the 1st U.S. Cavalry and assigned to duty on the Indian frontier on the Missouri and Kansas Border. He participated in the campaign against the Cheyenne Indians and also in the Utah War and was promoted to captain on March 1, 1861.\n\nOn February 5, 1857, he married Sarah Maria Cooper (August 4, 1836 – December 15, 1858). They had one child, Sarah Maria Cooper Wheaton, in 1858. His wife died shortly thereafter. Wheaton remarried on November 2, 1861, to Emma Twiggs Mason (October 17, 1836 – February 16, 1864), born at Fort Des Moines, Wisconsin Territory, who, like his first wife, was a descendant of George Mason. She died in Harper's Ferry, West Virginia.\n\nWhen the Civil War started, Wheaton was commissioned as lieutenant colonel of the 2nd Rhode Island Infantry on July 10, 1861. His father-in-law from his first marriage, General Samuel Cooper, was the ranking general for the Confederacy, whereas Wheaton fought for the Union. Wheaton's unit fought at the First Battle of Bull Run, where its commander, Col. John Slocum, was killed. Wheaton took command of the unit, was promoted to colonel effective July 21, 1861, and led the 2nd Rhode Island during the Peninsula Campaign, where he was commended for his actions at the Battle of Williamsburg. At the Battle of Antietam, the regiment was kept in the rear and out of the battle.\n\nOn November 29, 1862, Wheaton was promoted to brigadier general of volunteers and placed in command of the 3rd Brigade (62d NY, 93d Pa, 98th Pa, 102 Pa & 139 Pa), 3rd Division, VI Corps. He led them in heavy fighting at the Battle of Chancellorsville. His brigade, under the command of Colonel David J. Nevin of the 62nd New York, was the only brigade of the VI Corps to see action on the afternoon of the second day of the Battle of Gettysburg after completing a forced march of approximately 30 miles from Manchester, Maryland that day. At Gettysburg he commanded the 3rd Division while its commander, Maj. Gen. John Newton, temporarily commanded the I Corps, in place of John F. Reynolds.\n\nWheaton remained in command of the brigade during Lt. Gen. Ulysses S. Grant's Overland Campaign in 1864, as well as during the subsequent Siege of Petersburg. His men were hurried by train to Washington, D.C., in time to help repel Jubal Early's raid on the capital. During the ensuing operations in the Shenandoah Valley, under Maj. Gen. Philip Sheridan, Wheaton was promoted to command of the first division after Brig. Gen. David Allen Russell was killed at the Third Battle of Winchester. His division fought well in subsequent battles. In the Battle of Sailors Creek Virginia, on April 6, 1865, his division captured Confederate Major General George Washington Custis Lee, son of Robert E. Lee. After the return of VI Corps to the Petersburg front, Wheaton earned the brevet rank of major general in the volunteer army and was brevetted colonel in the regular services.\n\nAfter the war, Wheaton joined the Military Order of the Loyal Legion of the United States - a military society of officers who had served the Union.\n\nFor his service in the Civil War, in 1865 he was awarded an honorary A.M. Degree from Brown University and Rhode Island presented him with a sword of honor in July 1866.\n\nShortly after the end of the Civil war, Wheaton was placed to command the district of Nebraska in Omaha. On April 30, 1866, he was mustered out of the volunteers and was subsequently promoted as lieutenant colonel of the 39th Infantry on July 28. He was breveted to the rank of major general in the Regular Army, to date from March 13, 1865, for meritorious service during the Civil War.\n\nHe, along with others, recommended that Confederate General George H. Steuart of Maryland be pardoned for his crimes during the American Civil War. This led to Steuart's pardon in November 1866.\n\nOn January 14, 1867, Wheaton was married for the third and last time to Maria Bleeker Miller (August 4, 1846 – August 21, 1924), born in Utica, New York. She eventually would become a Vice-President General in the Daughters of the American Revolution.\n\nIn the lead up to the Modoc War, Wheaton took command of approximately 250 regular army troops and a further 150 troops consisting of volunteers from California and Oregon as well as some Klamath Native Americans. At the First Battle of the Stronghold on January 17, 1873, he faced about fifty Modoc warriors in well defended positions amongst the lava fields of Northern California in a dense fog. Wheaton's troops suffered 35 deaths and many more wounded compared to no casualties on the Modoc side. Wheaton was subsequently relieved of command of the troops in the field. This defeat eventually led to the assassination of General Edward R. S. Canby on April 11 at a meeting of the Peace Commission on the battlefield. \n\nWheaton was appointed colonel of the 2nd Infantry, effective December 13, 1874. On April 19, 1892, Wheaton was selected in a long and politically heated competition for promotion to brigadier general. While the selection of Wheaton was controversial, it was met with overall approval in the army due to his excellent war record. In August 1896, General Wheaton played a minor role in the Yaqui Uprising at Ambos Nogales. After a group of Yaqui, Pima and Mexican rebels were repulsed in their attempt to capture the customs house in Nogales, Sonora, some of the party fled north into Arizona. Wheaton dispatched two companies of the 24th Infantry to pursue the rebels but they escaped. His district also included troops involved in monitoring and fighting against the Garza Revolution,\n\nIn 1896 Wheaton was elected as an Honorary Companion in the Pennsylvania Commandery of the Military Order of Foreign Wars.\n\nAfter the retirement of Major General Thomas H. Ruger, Wheaton was promoted to major general in the Regular Army on April 3, 1897 and was mandatorily retired one month later on his 64th birthday on May 8.\n\nAfter his retirement, Wheaton left to spend two years in Europe. He gave a speech at a Thanksgiving dinner in Berlin, Germany in 1898 which he used as a platform to encourage the U.S. Congress to support a stronger military which reflected the greatness of the United States.\n\nWheaton died in Washington, D.C., of a brain hemorrhage, and was buried in Section 1, Grave 131-A of Arlington National Cemetery. His third wife, Maria B. Wheaton, was buried next to him in 1924 after she died in Denver, Colorado.\n\nThe parking lot to the south of the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier in Arlington National Cemetery is named for Wheaton. The Wheaton, Maryland, section of the Wheaton/Glenmont division of the unincorporated township of Silver Spring, Maryland, just northwest of Washington, D.C., is named for him, as is the Wheaton High School, a school in the Down County Consortium of the Montgomery County Public School system of Montgomery County, Maryland.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2136645", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2136645", "title": "Pingo Doce", "text": "Pingo Doce\n\nPingo Doce is one of the largest supermarket operators in Portugal with almost 400 stores (Continente, of Sonae Group, is the largest food retailer operating over 550 stores, and Minipreço, of Dia Group, is the chain with more stores c. 620). It belongs to the Portuguese company Jerónimo Martins and the Dutch-based Ahold Delhaize. In the 1990s, Jerónimo Martins acquired Brazilian supermarket chain \"Sé Supermercados\", which became the Brazilian equivalent to Pingo Doce. In the early 2000s, Companhia Brasileira de Distribuição / Grupo Pão de Açúcar, bought out Sé, rebranding its stores as Pão de Açúcar and CompreBem.\n\nSince 2008, the chain uses its current logo, repositioned itself in the market, merged the Feira Nova supermarkets and hypermarkets into the Pingo Doce brand and has done aggressive marketing and advertising campaigns in order to maintain its position.\n\n"}
{"id": "2136652", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2136652", "title": "Arayat, Pampanga", "text": "Arayat, Pampanga\n\n', officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nA large portion of Mount Arayat is located within this municipality.\n\nArayat is politically subdivided into 30 barangays.\n\nIn the , the population of Arayat, Pampanga, was people, with a density of .\n\nSchools:\n\n"}
{"id": "2136653", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2136653", "title": "Bacolor, Pampanga", "text": "Bacolor, Pampanga\n\n', officially the ', (), is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nBacolor is the birthplace of Father Anselmo Jorge de Fajardo, considered the \"Father of Kapampangan literature\" for writing the 1831 Kapampangan \"kumidya\" \"Don Gonzalo de Cordova\".\n\nDon Guillermo Manabat, a rich landlord, is believed to be the founder of Bacolor in 1574. Historical records show that Bacolor has been in existence as a proposed settlement as early as 1571, the same year Manila was founded by the Spanish. When the Spaniards arrived in Bacolor they found \"Bakúlud\"; its original name meant \"level ground\" because the site was formerly part of the Luzon coastline until eruptions from Mount Pinatubo raised it above the ocean floor.\n\nThe first settlers of Bacolor were believed to be Malays that came from Atjeh in Sumatra led by Panday Pira. It is believed to have been founded by Monmon, first cousin and sister-in-law of Malangsic, a son of Prince Balagtas. However, historians recorded the official foundation of Bacolor in 1574 through a landlord named Guillermo Manabat, whose palatial house and resting place is now the site of the San Guillermo Church, hence the church's name. The name Bakúlud was changed to \"Bacólor\" with the advent of the Spanish.\n\nBacolor was the first capital of Pampanga and remained so for over two centuries (1698 to 1904) before the provincial seat was transferred to San Fernando in July 1904. In 1757, the provincial building, Casa Real, was constructed at the place where the Bacolor Elementary School is now located.\nDuring the British Occupation of the Philippines, when Manila fell to the British, it became capital of the exiled government of Governor General Simón de Anda y Salazar from October 6, 1762 to May 30, 1764. The provincial offices were temporarily moved to Factoría (now San Isidro, Nueva Ecija). It remained the former capital town of Pampanga until the provincial seat of government was transferred to neighboring San Fernando in 1904. Through a decree of the King of Spain on November 9, 1765, Bacolor became \"Villa de Bacólor\", one of the only three villas in the Philippines and was granted a special coat of arms. Simón de Anda organized an army of natives for the defense of Bacolor and with the aim of recapturing Manila.\n\nThe coming of the American colonizers broke up the military form of government and instead political and economic reforms were introduced. A civil form of government was organized and was inaugurated on February 13, 1901 by Com. William H. Taft which took place in the old Escuela de Artes y Oficios de Bacólor, later known as the Pampanga School of Arts and Trade and now the Don Honorio Ventura Technological State University, the first state university in Pampanga.\n\nThe first provincial Civil Governor was Don Ceferino Joven and the first Municipal President of Bacolor was Don Estanislao Santos. Pampanga was acknowledged as the first province to have organized civil government in the Philippines by General Grant, the then President of the United States of America.\n\nWhen the Second World War broke out, Japanese fighter and bomber planes invaded the municipal town in Bacolor on December 1941 until the town was occupied by the Imperial Japanese forces in 1942. Pampangan guerrillas and Hukbalahap Communist groups joined in an insurgency centered around the municipality of Bacolor, supported by local soldiers and military officers of the Philippine Commonwealth Army. Their attacks against the Japanese occupation continued until 1945, when Filipino and American forces liberated the municipality of Bacolor. \n\nIn 1956, the sitio of Mesalipit was converted into a barrio.\n\nOn the morning of October 1, 1995, over of lahar from the slopes of Mount Pinatubo and surrounding mountains buried the entire barangay of Cabalantian among many others, killing hundreds of people. 18 out of the 21 barangays of Bacolor were buried. The lahar flows from the mountains raised the town to its current level of an approximate 37 meters above sea level. Subsidence caused the constant reclaiming of parts of Pampanga by the sea.\n\nBacolor is politically subdivided into 21 barangays.\n\nIn the , the population of Bacolor, Pampanga, was people, with a density of .\n\nLike other towns in the Philippines, Bacolor is governed by a mayor and vice mayor who are elected to three-year terms. The mayor is the executive head and leads the town's departments in executing the ordinances and improving public services. The vice mayor heads a legislative council (Sangguniang Bayan) consisting of councilors from the barangays or barrios.\n\nThe municipal building is the former site of the Venturas house, one of Bacolor's most prominent families. On July 8, 1953, the new town hall was completed during the tenure of Mayor Manuel de Jesus. Its construction was a project of Senator Pablo Angeles y David, a native of Bacolor.\n\nThe main landmark of the town is the San Guillermo Parish Church known as the 'sunken church', one of the structures that was half-buried by the lava flow from the eruption of Mount Pinatubo in 1991. The church has since been renovated and is currently operational and may be accessed through what were once the second floor windows, now converted into doorways. The sunken church and town of Bacolor were used to shoot the 2009 television series \"May Bukas Pa\". The Shrine of Our Lady of Lourdes in Cabetican is also famous for its annual pilgrimage and barrio fiestas.\n\nOther notable landmarks in Bacolor include Memorial Kilometer Posts of the Bataan Death March along the MacArthur Highway; the oldest trade school in Far East, the Don Honorio Ventura Technological State University; the Simón de Anda y Salazar monument at the town hall; monument to the Kapampangan writer and revolutionary leader Juan Crisostomo Soto (1867-1918); and Monument to Felix Galura Y Napao.\n\nBacolor's festivals are the Feast of San Guillermo and Nuestra Senora del Santissimo Rosario (La Naval) which are celebrated every 10th day of February and 3rd Sunday of November, respectively.\n\nBuried by the devastating lahar flows of Mount Pinatubo eruption in June 1991, the Archdiocesan Shrine of Our Lady of Lourdes of Cabetican (abbreviated as \"Maluca\") remains at the center of Marian Concordia Pilgrimages and Healing in Pampanga. Originally built as an annexe to the older, smaller shrine, it is under the care of Fr. Ronnie Cao, Healing Priest and Rector of the Archdiocesan Shrine.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2136654", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2136654", "title": "Melchior Goldast", "text": "Melchior Goldast\n\nMelchior Goldast ab Haiminsfeld (Goldastus) (6 January 1576 or 1578 - Gießen, 1635) was a Swiss jurist and an industrious though uncritical collector of documents relating to the medieval history and constitution of Germany. He was a Calvinist writer of note.\n\nHe was born to poor Protestant parents near Bischofszell, in the Swiss canton of Thurgau. His university career, first at Ingolstadt (1595‑1596) and then at Altdorf near Nuremberg (1597‑1598), was cut short by his poverty, from which he suffered all his life and which was the main cause of his wanderings. In 1598 he found a rich protector in Bartholomaeus Schobinger of St. Gall, who enabled him to study at St. Gall (where he first became interested in medieval documents, which abound in the Abbey of St. Gall) and elsewhere in Switzerland. The year before his patron's death in 1604, he became secretary to Henri, duc de Bouillon, with whom he went to Heidelberg and Frankfurt. In 1604 he entered the service of the Baron von Hohensax, the possessor of the Codex Manesse, the precious manuscript volume of old German \"Minnesänger\" of which Goldast published excerpts. Soon he was back in Switzerland, and by 1606 in Frankfurt, earning his living by preparing and correcting books for the press. In 1611 he was appointed councillor at the court of Saxe-Weimar, and in 1615 he entered the service of Graf Ernst von Schaumburg at Buckeburg. In 1624 he was forced by developments in the Thirty Years War to retire to Bremen; there in 1625 he deposited his library in that of the town, he himself returning to Frankfurt. In 1627 he became councillor to Emperor Ferdinand II and to the archbishop-elector of Trier, and in 1633 passed to the service of the landgrave of Hesse-Darmstadt. He died at Gießen early in 1635.\n\nHis immense industry is shown by the fact that his biographer, Heinrich Christian Senckenberg, gives a list of 65 works published or written by him, some extending to several substantial volumes. Among the more important are his \"Paraeneticorum veterum pars i.\" (1604), which contained the old German tales of Kunig Tyrol von Schotten, the Winsbeke and the Winsbekin; \"Suevicarum rerum scriptores\" (Frankfurt, 1605, new edition, 1727); \"Rerum Alamannicarum scriptores\" (Frankfurt, 1606, new edition by Senckenburg, 1730); \"Constitutiones imperiales\" (Frankfurt, 1607‑1613, 4 vols.); \"Monarchia sacri Romani imperii\" (Hanover and Frankfurt, 1612‑1614, 3 vols.); and \"Commentarii de regni Bohemiae juribus\" (Frankfurt, 1627, new edition by Schmink, 1719). He also edited Jacques Auguste de Thou's \"Historia sui temporis\" (1609‑1610) and the works of Willibald Pirckheimer (1610).\n\nIn 1688 a volume of letters addressed to him by his learned friends was published.\n\n"}
{"id": "2136656", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2136656", "title": "1911–12 in Scottish football", "text": "1911–12 in Scottish football\n\nThe 1911–12 season was the 39th season of competitive football in Scotland and the 22nd season of the Scottish Football League.\n\nChampions: Rangers\n\nCeltic were winners of the Scottish Cup after a 2–0 win over Clyde in the final. Joe Watters scored the two game-winning goals in the last 23 seconds of the game.\n\n. *replay\n\nPetershill were winners of the Junior Cup after a 5–0 win over Denny Hibs in the final.\n\nScotland shared the 1912 British Home Championship trophy with England.\n\nKey:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2136659", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2136659", "title": "John Chaffey", "text": "John Chaffey\n\nJohn Chaffey is an English osteopathic doctor and former child film actor.\n\nChaffey was featured in many television adverts as a child. He is best remembered for a role in the 1973 Peter Sellers movie \"The Optimists of Nine Elms\".\n\nChaffey studied at University of East London, receiving in 1991 a research-based degree comparing osteopathic and physiotherapeutic interventions in the mechanical discomforts of pregnancy. He qualified at the British School of Osteopathy (1988). He headed an osteopathic group practice beginning in 1991, working with a team of 11 osteopathic specialists. He attained leadership positions in the UK Osteopathy profession, being appointed as a Member of Council of UK Regulator, the General Osteopathic Council, in 2012. He is a member of the Education and Registration Standards Committee.\n\nChaffey has worked in osteopathic education since 1991 as a lecturer and clinic tutor. He is currently a Clinical Tutor\nat the European School of Osteopathy, lecturing on communication and compliance issues. He was Module Leader for Osteopathy for 2 years at Oxford Brookes University, and currently serves as an external examiner for that institution. He became an external examiner for Final Clinical Competence in 2001.\n\n"}
{"id": "2136660", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2136660", "title": "Rebel Inc.", "text": "Rebel Inc.\n\nRebel Inc. is a revived once iconic Scots counter-culture publishing company and literary journal, founded by Kevin Williamson in 1992 with the upfront but accurate slogan of \"F*** the Mainstream!\". Duncan Mclean, Gordon Legge, Barry Graham and Sandie Craigie were involved in setting it up. For a time Sandie was its co-editor. It adroitly managed to tap into the darker undercurrent of Scottish society in the post-Thatcher era, capturing its counter-cultural rejection of mainstream values in its ethos.\n\n\"Rebel Inc Magazine\" ran to five issues between 1992 and 1994, publishing new work by writers such as Irvine Welsh, Alan Warner, Laura Hird, Toni Davidson and John King before any of them had books in print. Issue 4 featured an infamous 'Ecstasy Interview' - an unedited conversation between Kevin Williamson and Irvine Welsh whilst both editor and writer were under the influence of the psychoactive drug, MDMA.\n\nIn his blog of February 2008, Kevin Williamson wrote \"I pulled a stunt on Radio Scotland which satisfied the Malcolm McLaren criteria of \"establishing the name\", as related to one of the finest exploitation movies of all time: \"The Great Rock'n'Roll Swindle\".\"\n\nIn 1996, following the success of \"Trainspotting\" by Irvine Welsh, Rebel Inc. was incorporated into the Canongate Books stable of independent publishers. A steady stream of eclectic but edgy releases then ensued, with out-of-print editions by the likes of Alexander Trocchi and Sadegh Hedayat, themselves substantially influential on many of the recent darker Scots authors like Welsh and Alan Warner. It also brought on a new generation of foreign writers such as Henry Baum, Joel Rose and Ray Loriga, who shared its outlook nonetheless.\n\nThe Rebel Inc. imprint came to a premature end as a result of increasing friction between Williamson and Canongate over the creative and commercial direction of the imprint, which led to Williamson's resignation and departure from the company in January 2001. The imprint ended abruptly at the very height of its success although Canongate would later claim this was due to financial restructuring. Many of Rebel Inc.'s titles and authors were subsequently transferred into the main Canongate itinerary.\n\nIn 2012 Williamson announced plans to revive Rebel Inc. on its 20th anniversary.\n\n"}
{"id": "2136665", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2136665", "title": "Terza Posizione", "text": "Terza Posizione\n\nTerza Posizione () was a far-right political movement founded in Rome in 1978 (but already present with the name of Lotta Studentesca from 1976). The TP rejected both capitalism and communism, looking instead to found a political and economic Third Position, with its main influence being Julius Evola. The group became a front for the Nuclei Armati Rivoluzionari (NAR) in 1980. It insisted on tradition, nationalism, anti-parliamentarism and militarism.\n\nThe group was founded by ex-members of previous neo-fascist groups such as Ordine Nuovo, Avanguardia Nazionale, , Fronte Studentesco, disbanded for apology of fascism. was the leader of the group, with Roberto Fiore and Gabriele Adinolfi amongst its most important ideologues. Massimo Morsello was also a member. Parallel to the official organization, an operative clandestine nucleus was formed, led by Peppe Di Mitri. The movement did not last long as Di Mitri was arrested soon after its founding. When he was arrested in the summer of 1980, the structure merged with Nuclei Armati Rivoluzionari.\n\nThe group motto was \"Nè fronte rosso nè reazione, Terza Posizione\" (Ital. \"Neither red front nor reaction, Third Position\"). The group logo was a variation of the Wolfsangel symbol, with the central bar substituted by a fist holding a hammer.\n\nTerza Posizione was one of the various Italian neofascist groups of the '70s (along with Lotta di Popolo, for example) that attempted to break the wall between radical left and radical right ideologies. Terza Posizione platform supported a social, corporativist state and looked with interest at both the Perón Argentina and the Vietcongs.\n\nOn December 1979, in one of the premises of the organization, three members were arrested, having been caught while moving a box of hand grenades. After the incident, the police found several Carabinieri uniforms, false papers, arms and explosives. As a result, in September 1980, Fiore, Adinolfi and forty members of Terza Posizione received a warrant of arrest. Fiore and Adinolfi escaped abroad, leaving the leadership of the group to Giorgio Vale (a member of Nuclei Armati Rivoluzionari). The NAR's Giusva Fioravanti would later accuse Fiore and Adinolfi of absconding with the movement's money. Without Di Mitri's lead, the NAR quickly took control and used TP as a front movement.\n\nIn June 1983, judge Mario Amato, who was investigating the links between the Terza Posizione and neo-fascist terrorism, was assassinated by a commando formed by Gilberto Cavallini and Luigi Ciavardini. The instigators of the killing were NAR members Francesca Mambro and Valerio Fioravanti. (Both were convicted of other terrorist killings and the 1980 Bologna massacre). The judge had been investigating in isolation from his superiors, like the chief prosecutor Giovanni De Matteo, a member of Propaganda Due, and under heavy attacks from his colleague Antonio Alibrandi, a right-wing sympathizer and father of Alessandro Alibrandi, member of Terza Posizione and NAR.\n\nDespite its brief life and ambiguous relationships with terrorist groups, Terza Posizione remains one of the most influential groups of the Italian and European far right. Many of its former members continued to play prominent roles in the far right politics after the disbanding of the original association.\n\nPeppe Dimitri later joined Alleanza Nazionale and became the advisor of Gianni Alemanno. Fiore and Morsello, meanwhile, repaired to Great Britain founding the International Third Position along with Nick Griffin and other British nationalists. They then returned some of their ideals to Italian politics with Forza Nuova, albeit with less social-oriented and more strictly anti-immigration overtones. Forza Nuova web sites and manifests are still sometimes titled \"Forza Nuova per la Terza Posizione\" (\"New Force for the Third Position\"). Gabriele Adinolfi is not formally involved in politics but he is still active in the Italian far right scene as an ideologue and thinker.\n\nPolitical ideas of the Terza Posizione are now represented in Italy by Forza Nuova, led by Fiore; and by the movement CasaPound, a network of far-right social centres.\n\n"}
{"id": "2136676", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2136676", "title": "Les Brown", "text": "Les Brown\n\nLes Brown may refer to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2136678", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2136678", "title": "St Mary's School, Wantage", "text": "St Mary's School, Wantage\n\nSt Mary's School was an independent day and boarding girls' school located in Wantage, Oxfordshire, England. In 2007 it merged with Heathfield School to become Heathfield St Mary's School (later reverted to Heathfield) and the Wantage site was closed.\n\nIt was affiliated with the Church of England and had close ties with its founding order, the Community of St Mary the Virgin. It was predominantly a boarding school.\n\nThe Reverend William John Butler became Vicar of Wantage on 1 January 1847. His main aims were, first, to revive the religious life in England and second, to improve education. He hoped to achieve these aims by setting up an order of teaching sisters, but he faced many disappointments and spent 25 years trying to improve various day schools in the parish before St Mary’s School was founded in 1873.\n\nTogether with its sister school, the School of St Helen and St Katharine in Abingdon, St Mary's was run by the sisters of the Community of St Mary the Virgin and was based in the Queen Anne house on Newbury Street. Sister Ellen was the first Sister-in-Charge and Sister Juliana succeeded her in 1887. Sister Juliana had studied at Cambridge and set a high standard for the girls, entering them for the Oxford and Cambridge local examinations.\n\nSister Annie Louisa joined the school in 1898 and started a guide movement called Scout Patrols in 1899 before Boy Scouts had even begun. She succeeded Sister Juliana as Headmistress in 1903. Sister Annie Louisa was responsible for the chief structural improvements at St Mary’s including a science wing and the conversion of an old barn into a gymnasium. By the time Sister Annie Louisa left in 1919, St Mary’s was recognised as a “public school with an unusually high standard of scholarship”.\n\nIn 2005 the buildings were purchased for around £15m by the property developer Anton Bilton and his company, Raven Mount. The transaction was said to be necessary to increase the size of the school and modernise facilities. However, in 2006 it was announced that the school would be merging with the Heathfield School in Ascot, to form a new school, Heathfield St Mary's and the Wantage site was closed at the end of the summer term 2007.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2136694", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2136694", "title": "Eliyahu de Vidas", "text": "Eliyahu de Vidas\n\nEliyahu de Vidas (1518–1587, Hebron) was a 16th-century rabbi in Ottoman Palestine. He was primarily a disciple of Rabbis Moses ben Jacob Cordovero (known as the \"Ramak\") and also Isaac Luria. De Vidas is known for his expertise in the Kabbalah. He wrote \"Reshit Chochmah\", or \"The Beginning of Wisdom,\" a pietistic work that is still widely studied by Orthodox Jews today. Just as his teacher Rabbi Moses Cordovero created an ethical work according to kabbalistic principles in his Tomer Devorah, Rabbi de Vidas created an even more expansive work on the spiritual life with his Reishit Chochmah. This magnum opus is largely based on the Zohar, but also reflects a wide range of traditional sources. The author lived in Safed and Hebron, and was one of a group of prominent kabbalists living in Hebron during the late 16th and early 17th-century.\n\nAaron ben Menahem Mendel of Kamenitz, the first hotelier in the Land of Israel, references his visit to the grave of Eliyahu de Vidas in his 1839 book \"Sefer Korot Ha-Itim\". He states, \"here I write of the graves of the righteous to which I paid my respects.\" After describing the Cave of Machpela and the tombs of such Biblical figures as Ruth and Jesse, Othniel Ben Knaz and Abner Ben Ner, he reports, \"I also went to a grave said to be that of the Righteous Rav, author of \"Reshit Hokhma.\" Today the grave site has been refurbished and can be visited in the Old Jewish Cemetery in Hebron.\n\n"}
{"id": "2136699", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2136699", "title": "Singrampur", "text": "Singrampur\n\nSingrampur is a historical place where final battle fought between Rani Durgawati and Mughal king Akbar's Senapati Asaf Khan. The town in named after \"Sangram\" which in Hindi means war.\n\nSingrampur comes under district Damoh, Madhya Pradesh.\n\nRani Durgawati sanctuary: is located near to Singrampur where you can find all wild animals.\nSingorgarh fort : is near to Singrampur is another place of historical importance. It was built by Raja Vain Bason. Gond Rajas stayed in it for long time. It was with Gond Raja Dalpat Shah and his Rani Durgawati at the end of 15th century. There is also a lake here, which is full of lotus flowers. This is an ideal picnic spot. \n\nNajaraa: 6 km from Singrampur towards Kalumar on W.B.M. road there is road leading to the spot called \"Nazara\". This place has been developed as a platform on the top of the mountain giving a breath taking overview of the Rani Durgawati Abhyaran. The sight of the thick forest can be enjoyed from here. The caves of the wild animals on the hills can also be seen. Wild animals are also spotted roaming around in the forest.\n\nGiri Darshan: Situated on the High way from Damoh to Jabalpur 5 km from Jabera and 7 km from Sigrampur toward Damoh on a green hill in the jungle a beautiful double storeyed rest house cum watch tower was built by the Forest Dept. It is a notable piece of Architecture. From the main road a narrow path along of the bank of a tank reaches this rest house. The reservation to stay in the rest house can be made at DFO office at Damoh. The sight of the roads of the small hills and views of the sunrise and the sunset await the visitors. This view can be seen from the terrace of the rest house. The wild animals also can be seen at night.\n\nNidhan Kund: Almost 1/2 km from the Bhainsaghat Rest House towards the Bhainsa village (5 km from Singrampur), a road goes to this waterfall. One kilometer from the main road a stream between the high black rocks flows down from more than 100 ft (30 m) height. This is called Nidan Kund. During the months of July and August there is much water in the stream so the sight of this fall from the front is impressive. It becomes a picnic spot in September and October as water in the stream is reduced. There are step-like formations on the black rocks against the flow of the stream which create a spectacle when the water flow is high.\n\nSad-Bhawna Sikhar: It is the highest point of the Vindhya Range. On Bhainsa - Kalumar road there cuts a forest road which is almost 6 km long. A view of the area around it can be seen from here. This peak is 2467 ft (752 m) above sea level. The twinkling light of Jabalpur city can be seen from here at clear nights. It is not very easy to climb this peak so it is convenient to use a jeep or any other 4 wheeler. It is 10 km from Singrampur.\n\n"}
{"id": "2136717", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2136717", "title": "Ludvík Aškenazy", "text": "Ludvík Aškenazy\n\nLudvík Aškenazy (24 February 1921 in Český Těšín – 18 March 1986 in Bolzano, Italy) was a Czech writer and journalist. He was born into a Jewish family in Sachsenberg, part of Český Těšín.\n\nHe studied Slavonic philology in Lviv, which then was a part of Poland.\n\nDuring World War II, he was a soldier in the Czech units of the Soviet Army in the Soviet Union. He was a member of the Communist Party of Czechoslovakia. Between 1945 and 1950 he worked in the state Czechoslovak Radio and after that he became government-sanctioned \"writer.\"\n\nAfter the Soviet invasion of Czechoslovakia in 1968, he left for exile and until 1976 lived in Munich. Between 1976 and 1986, he lived in the Italian town of Bolzano with his wife, Leonie Mann, daughter of the German writer Heinrich Mann.\n\nHe won the Deutscher Jugendliteraturpreis in 1977.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2136729", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2136729", "title": "Liu Shifu", "text": "Liu Shifu\n\nLiu Shifu (; 1884 – 27 March 1915) was an influential figure in the Chinese revolutionary movement in the early twentieth century, and in the Chinese Anarchist movement in particular. He was a key figure in the movement, particularly in Canton province, and one of the most important organizers in the Chinese Anarchist tradition.\n\nHe began his radical career as a member of the China Assassination Corps, an anti-colonial movement which was strongly influenced by the tactics of the Russian Nihilist movement and advocated revolutionary terrorism and the assassination of criminal elites. Upon conversion to anarchism he denounced these tactics as counter-productive and switched his focus to grass-roots organizing among peasants and workers in order to build a revolutionary mass movement. He was one of the first Chinese Revolutionaries to seriously advocate Peasant organizing as a key element of his revolutionary strategy.\n\nIn 1912 Liu founded the Society of Cocks Crowing in the Dark (a.k.a. Cock-Crow Society), whose journal, People's Voice, was the leading organ of Chinese anarchism in the 1910s. Liu was a skilled expositor of anarchist doctrine and his polemical exchanges with the socialist leader Jiang Kanghu helped to popularize anarchism as a “pure socialism” and to distinguish it from other currents in socialist thought.\n\nThe Cock-Crow Society, also known as the \"Guangzhou Group\", is usually described as being “led” by Liu, and this is generally accurate insofar as we understand it as leadership by example since he was never granted any formal position or coercive authority by the group. Their most significant contributions at this stage were the foundation of “an alliance between intellectuals and workers” and their propaganda work which set out to differentiate anarchism from all the other socialisms that were gaining in popularity; and in so doing crystallized for the first time exactly what anarchism was. The Guangzhou group used positive assertions of rights and workers, women, peasants, and other oppressed groups to outline their vision of an anarchist society. Noticeably absent was any mention of Ethnic minorities, since a basic part of their platform was the elimination of ethnic, racial, and national identities in favor of an internationalist identity that placed primary importance on loyalty to humanity as a whole, instead of to ones ethnic or racial group. \n\nIt is important to recognize that this position was formulated in response to the primacy placed on ethnicity by the Anti-Manchu movement, which sought to assert the illegitimacy of the Qing dynasty based in part on the fact that its members were part of an ethnic minority out of touch with the Han majority, a position which Anarchists of all four major groups decried as racist and unbefitting a movement that claimed to be working for liberation. Their position, therefore, was that ethnicity-based organizing promoted racism, and had no place in a revolution that sought liberation for all of humanity.\n\nHe was very active in the movement for the international language Esperanto, in which he used the pseudonym Sifo.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2136731", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2136731", "title": "Zajac", "text": "Zajac\n\nZajac is a common Slavic name, meaning “hare”. Variants include \"Zaek\", \"Zając\", \"Zajec\", \"Zajić\", \"Zajíc\", \"Zayak\", \"Zayats\", \"Zayets\", and \"Zajonc\". A related Russian surname is Zaytsev. Notable people with the surname include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2136733", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2136733", "title": "Johann Ruchrat von Wesel", "text": "Johann Ruchrat von Wesel\n\nJohann Ruchrat von Wesel (died 1481) was a German Scholastic theologian. He objected to the system of indulgences, and has been called a “reformer before the Reformation.”\n\nHe was born at Oberwesel early in the 15th century. He appears to have been one of the leaders of the humanist movement in Germany, and to have had some intercourse and sympathy with the leaders of the Hussites in Bohemia.\n\nErfurt was in his day the headquarters of a humanism which was both devout and opposed to the realist metaphysics and the Thomist theology which prevailed in the universities of Cologne and Heidelberg. Wesel was one of the professors at Erfurt between 1445 and 1456, and was vice-rector in 1458. In 1460 he was appointed preacher at Mainz, in 1462 at Worms, and in 1479, when an old and worn-out man, he was brought before the Dominican inquisitor Gerhard Elten of Cologne. The charges brought against him took a theological turn, though they were probably prompted by dislike of his philosophical views. They were chiefly based on a treatise, \"De indulgentiis\", which he had composed while at Erfurt twenty-five years before. He had also written \"De potestate ecclesiastica\". He died under sentence of imprisonment for life in the Augustinian convent in Mainz in 1481.\n\nIt is somewhat difficult to determine the exact theological orientation of Wesel. Ullmann claims him as a \"reformer before the Reformation\", but, while he mastered the formal principle of Protestantism, that scripture is the sole rule of faith, it is more than doubtful that he had that experimental view of the doctrines of grace which lay at the basis of Reformation theology. He held that Christ is men's righteousness in so far as they are guided by the Holy Ghost, and the love towards God is shed abroad in their hearts, which clearly shows that he held the medieval idea that justification is an habitual grace implanted in men by the gracious act of God. He seems, however, to have protested against certain medieval ecclesiastical ideas which he held to be excrescences erroneously grafted on Christian faith and practice. He objected to the whole system of indulgences; he denied the infallibility of the church, on the ground, that the church contains within it sinners as well as saints; he insisted that papal authority could be upheld only when the pope remained true to the evangel; and he held that a sharp distinction ought to be drawn between ecclesiastical sentences and punishments, and the judgments of God.\n\nThe best account of Wesel is to be found in K. Ullmann's \"Reformers before the Reformation\". His tract on Indulgences is published in Walch's \"Monumenta Medii Aevi\", vol. i., while a report of his trial is given in Ortwin's \"Fasciculus rerum expetendarum et fugiendarum\" (ed. by Browne, London, 1690), and d'Argentré's \"Collectio judiciorum de novis erroribus\" (Paris, 1728).\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2136736", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2136736", "title": "Zieliński", "text": "Zieliński\n\nZieliński ( ; feminine: Zielińska, plural Zielińscy) is the eighth most common surname in Poland (91,522 people in 2009), and is also common in other countries in various forms. The first Polish records of the surname date to the 15th century. Without diacritical marks, it is spelled Zielinski. The Russianized form is Zelinsky.\n\nPolish surnames ending in \"-ski\" are of toponymic origin, meaning they identify someone as an inhabitant of a given community, and not through association with what the name's root meant. Thus, given the great number of similarly named localities, linguistically Zielin, Zielinca, Zieliniec and Zielińsk would be the most perfect matches. Some others might include Zieleniec, Zielinice, Zieleniew, Zieleniewo, Zieleń, Zielęcice, Zielięcin, Zielniczki, Zielniki and Zielona.\n\n\nDue to the sheer size and frequency distribution of the name, it is difficult to trace common origins or use of armigerous coats of arms (herby) in the Polish clan system.\n\n"}
{"id": "2136740", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2136740", "title": "Fasiq", "text": "Fasiq\n\nFasiq ( \"fāsiq\") is an Arabic term referring to someone who violates Islamic law. As a fasiq is considered unreliable, his testimony is not accepted in Islamic courts. The terms \"fasiq\" and \"fisq\" are sometime rendered as \"impious\", \"venial sinner\", or \"depraved\".\n\n\"Fasiq\" is derived from the term \"fisq\" (), \"breaking the agreement\" or \"to leave or go out of.\"\n\nIn its original Quranic usage, the term did not have the specific meaning of a violator of laws, and was more broadly associated with \"kufr\" (disbelief). Some theologians have associated fasiq-related behaviour to \"ahl al-hawa\" (people of caprice).\n\n\nAmongst the terms uses in geopolitics, in the period leading up to the 1979 Iranian Revolution, Ayatollah Khomeini described the Shah of Iran as \"fasiq\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2136743", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2136743", "title": "John Whethamstede", "text": "John Whethamstede\n\nJohn Whethamstede (died 20 January 1465) was an English abbot.\n\nHe was a son of Hugh Bostock, and was born at Wheathampstead in Hertfordshire, owing his name, the Latin form of which is Frumentarius, to this circumstance.\n\nAfter early schooling at the Abbey School (now St Albans School) he entered St Albans Abbey when only sixteen. He was chosen abbot of this Benedictine monastery in 1420. In 1423, Whethamstede attended the Council of Siena. In the Kingdom of England, his time was mainly occupied with lawsuits, several of which he carried on to defend the property and enforce the rights of the abbey.\n\nIn 1440, he resigned his post but, in 1451, on the death of his successor John Stoke, he became abbot for the second time. He died on 20 January 1465, and his tomb may still be seen in the abbey church.\n\nWhethamstede was an energetic and successful abbot. He greatly improved the buildings at St Albans, which suffered somewhat during his later years owing to the Wars of the Roses, the first open conflict of which was the First Battle of St Albans in 1455. He also did some building at Gloucester.\n\nHe was also closely, if clumsily, associated with the humanistic activities of Henry V's youngest brother, Humphrey, Duke of Gloucester, who died in 1447 and was buried in St Albans Abbey, where he was honoured as a benefactor.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2136752", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2136752", "title": "Onex Corporation", "text": "Onex Corporation\n\nOnex Corporation is an investment manager founded in 1984. The firm manages capital on behalf of Onex shareholders, institutional investors and high net worth clients around the world. As of March 31, 2020, Onex had approximately US$33 billion of assets under management. It invests and manages capital through four platforms: Onex Partners (private equity funds focused on larger market opportunities in North America and Europe); ONCAP (private equity funds focused on smaller and middle-market opportunities in North America); Onex Credit (invests in non-investment grade debt through various strategies); and Gluskin Sheff (a wealth manager with public equity and public credit strategies). Onex and its management teams are collectively the largest investors across Onex's investment platforms.\n\nFounder Gerry Schwartz had previously worked at Bear Stearns in New York City during the 1970s, under investor Jerome Kohlberg, Jr., who later became a founding partner of Kohlberg Kravis Roberts. Schwartz returned to Canada, where he started working with Izzy Asper.\n\nSchwartz founded Onex in 1984 and took the company public in 1987. The firm focused on private equity investing in North America using capital from its balance sheet for the first 16 years of its history. In 2000, it started raising investment vehicles with third-party capital with the launch of ONCAP, which focuses on smaller and middle market opportunities. In 2003 the first Onex Partners fund was raised. Today, the majority of Onex’s private equity investments are made through these two platforms. \n\nIn 2007, Onex invested in a credit manager, which later became Onex Credit. The platform offers various strategies, with the largest being Collateralized Loan Obligations. \n\nIn 2019, Onex acquired Gluskin Sheff + Associates, a Toronto-based wealth manager with public equity and public credit strategies. \n\nSince its founding, the firm has generated a gross multiple of invested capital of 2.5x and a gross internal rate of return of 27% on its realized private equity investments (as of March 31, 2020).\n\nThe firm's private equity investments are made in a wide array of industries including consumer & retail, financial services, healthcare, industrials, services and technology, media & telecom. The firm prefers to have majority control over its subsidiaries and focusses on three primary investment strategies: cost reductions and operational restructurings; platforms for add-on acquisitions; and carve-outs from multinational corporations.\n\nOther companies which Onex owns or has owned a share include Celestica, Cineplex Entertainment, Spirit AeroSystems, SMG, Sitel, American Medical Response, Hawker Beechcraft, EmCare, JELD-WEN, Carestream Health, Purolator, Husky Injection Molding Systems, Allison Transmission, Canadian Securities Institute, Cici's, Sky Chefs, BBAM, Emerald Expositions, Tomkins, SIG Combibloc Group, Clarivate Analytics, Save-A-Lot, SMG, WestJet and many others.\n\nOnex is headquartered on the 49th floor of Brookfield Place in Toronto, with branch offices in Toronto, New York City, New Jersey, and London.\n\n"}
{"id": "2136753", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2136753", "title": "Jerome Travers", "text": "Jerome Travers\n\nJerome Dunstan \"Jerry\" Travers (May 19, 1887 – March 29, 1951) was one of the leading amateur golfers of the early 20th century. He won the U.S. Amateur in 1907, 1908, 1912 and 1913, the New Jersey Amateur three times, and the Metropolitan Amateur (New York) five times. He was regarded as one of the finest match play golfers of his time and had a famous rivalry with Walter Travis. He won the 1915 U.S. Open.\n\nTravers was born on May 19, 1887 in New York City, New York.\n\nOn September 16, 1905, a then 18-year-old Travers partnered with Herbert Strong to tie for second place, shooting 72, in a four-ball tournament held at Fox Hills Golf Club on Staten Island as part of the 1905 Metropolitan Open. The stroke play portion of the tournament was won by Alex Smith. \n\nIn 1915 Travers won the U.S. Open at Baltusrol Golf Club, making him the second of the five amateurs to win the event. It was his only top ten finish in four appearances at the U.S. Open – he never entered the tournament again once he had won it.\n\nAlthough all of Travers' notable victories came as an amateur, he later became a teaching professional and gave exhibitions.\n\nTravers died on March 29, 1951 in East Hartford, Connecticut. He is remembered as one of the finest amateur golfers of all time. He won the U.S. Amateur four times and the U.S. Open in 1915. He was inducted into the World Golf Hall of Fame in 1976.\n\n\n\"Note: Travers played in only the U.S. Open, U.S. Amateur, and The Amateur Championship.\"<br>\nNT = No tournament<br>\nDNP = Did not play<br>\n\"T\" indicates a tie for a place<br>\nR256, R128, R64, R32, R16, QF, SF = Round in which player lost in match play<br>\nGreen background for wins. Yellow background for top-10\n\nSources: U.S. Open and U.S. Amateur, Amateur Championship: 1909, 1914\n\n"}
{"id": "2136754", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2136754", "title": "National Vanguard (Italy)", "text": "National Vanguard (Italy)\n\nThe National Vanguard () is a name that has been used for at least two neo-fascist and neo-Nazi groups in Italy.\n\nThe original National Vanguard was an extra-parliamentary movement formed as a breakaway group from the Italian Social Movement (MSI) by Stefano Delle Chiaie in 1960, initially based around a group of youths recruited by the government to break up leftist meetings. The Vanguard rejected the parliamentary route of the Social Movement, preferring instead to work outside the political system to subvert democracy and bring about a return to fascism. A leaflet produced by the group described them as in favour of \"man-to-man engagements\" in which their members were to be encouraged to be as ruthless as possible.\n\nMembers of the movement were frequently denounced as terrorists and it was claimed that Della Chiaie had links to bomb making concerns in Spain. The group also had close links with Ordine Nuovo and other extremist groups. Vincenzo Vinciguerra was a notorious member of the group. The group was adjudged responsible for a series of bomb attacks in Italy in 1969, the most notorious of which was the Piazza Fontana bombing. The group also took a leading role in the abortive coup attempt by Junio Valerio Borghese the following year.\n\nAvanguardia Nazionale organized the assassination of Italian magistrate Vittorio Occorsio, employing arms supplied by the CIA via its contacts in Francoist Spain. For the killing Pierluigi Concutelli is currently serving a life sentence in Italy. Avanguardia Nazionale member Mario Ricci participated to the 1978 assassination of Argala, the \"etarra\" who had taken part, five years before, in the assassination of Francisco Franco's prime minister, Luis Carrero Blanco.\n\nA second group bearing this name was set up in 1970 by Adriano Tilgher, but this movement was outlawed by the Italian government, who saw it as an attempt to refound the National Fascist Party.\n\nA neofascist magazine entitled \"Avanguardia\" continues to be published monthly. It may claim to be the official organ of the National Vanguard, although the movement remains illegal in Italy—the official movement to which \"Avanguardia\" is connected is the \"Comunità Politica di Avanguardia\" (Political Vanguard Community).\n\n"}
{"id": "2136757", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2136757", "title": "Alarm signal", "text": "Alarm signal\n\nIn animal communication, an alarm signal is an antipredator adaptation in the form of signals emitted by social animals in response to danger. Many primates and birds have elaborate alarm calls for warning conspecifics of approaching predators. For example, the alarm call of the blackbird is a familiar sound in many gardens. Other animals, like fish and insects, may use non-auditory signals, such as chemical messages. Visual signs such as the white tail flashes of many deer have been suggested as alarm signals; they are less likely to be received by conspecifics, so have tended to be treated as a signal to the predator instead.\n\nDifferent calls may be used for predators on the ground or from the air. Often, the animals can tell which member of the group is making the call, so that they can disregard those of little reliability. \n\nEvidently, alarm signals promote survival by allowing the receivers of the alarm to escape from the source of peril; this can evolve by kin selection, assuming the receivers are related to the signaller. However, alarm calls can increase individual fitness, for example by informing the predator it has been detected.\n\nAlarm calls are often high-frequency sounds because these sounds are harder to localize.\n\nThis cost/benefit tradeoff of alarm calling behaviour has sparked many interest debates among evolutionary biologists seeking to explain the occurrence of such apparently \"self-sacrificing\" behaviour. The central question is this: \"If the ultimate purpose of any animal behaviour is to maximize the chances that an organism's own genes are passed on, with maximum fruitfulness, to future generations, why would an individual deliberately risk destroying itself (their entire genome) for the sake of saving others (other genomes)?\".\n\nAltruism\n\nSome scientists have used the evidence of alarm-calling behaviour to challenge the theory that \"evolution works only/primarily at the level of the gene and of the gene's \"interest\" in passing itself along to future generations.\" If alarm-calling is truly an example of altruism, then our understanding of natural selection becomes more complicated than simply \"survival of the fittest gene\".\n\nOther researchers, generally those who support the selfish gene theory, question the authenticity of this \"altruistic\" behaviour. For instance, it has been observed that vervets sometimes emit calls in the presence of a predator, and sometimes do not. Studies show that these vervets may call more often when they are surrounded by their own offspring and by other relatives who share many of their genes. Other researchers have shown that some forms of alarm calling, for example, \"aerial predator whistles\" produced by Belding's ground squirrels, do not increase the chances that a caller will get eaten by a predator; the alarm call is advantageous to both caller and recipient by frightening and warding off the predator.\n\nPredator attraction\n\nAnother theory suggests that alarm signals function to attract further predators, which fight over the prey organism, giving it a better chance of escape. Others still suggest they are a deterrent to predators, communicating the animals alertness to the predator. One such case is the western swamphen (\"Porphyrio porphyrio\"), which gives conspicuous visual tail flicks (see also aposematism, handicap principle and stotting).\n\nFurther research\n\nConsiderable research effort continues to be directed toward the purpose and ramifications of alarm-calling behaviour, because, to the extent that this research has the ability to comment on the occurrence or non-occurrence of altruistic behaviour, we can apply these findings to our understanding of altruism in human behaviour.\n\nVervet monkeys\n\nVervet monkeys are the typical example of both animal alarm calls and of semantic capacity in non-human animals. They have three distinct calls for leopards, snakes, and eagles, and research shows that each call elicits different responses. When vervets are on the ground they respond to the eagle alarm call by looking up and running to cover, to leopard alarm calls primarily by looking up and running into a tree, and to the snake alarm call primarily by looking down. When in trees vervets responded to the eagle alarm call by looking up and down and running out of trees, to the leopard alarm call by running higher in the tree and looking both up and down, and to the snake alarm call by looking primarily down. \n\nEach predator-specific behaviour is likely suited to escaping that predator, and, therefore, use of these escape behaviours is adaptive. \n\nPredator-specific alarm calls are an example of how monkeys organize a continuum of stimuli into categories that are judged to be more similar, and therefore belong to the same predator, or more different, and therefore belong to different predators.\n\nCampbell's mona monkeys\n\nCampbell's mona monkeys also generate alarm calls, but in a different way than vervet monkeys. Instead of having discrete calls for each predator, Campbell monkeys have two distinct types of calls which contain different calls which consist in an acoustic continuum of affixes which change meaning. It has been suggested that this is a homology to human morphology. Similarly, the cotton-top tamarin is able to use a limited vocal range of alarm calls to distinguish between aerial and land predators. Both the Campbell monkey and the cotton-top tamarin have demonstrated abilities similar to vervet monkeys' ability to distinguish likely direction of predation and appropriate responses.\n\nThat these three species use vocalizations to warn others of danger has been called by some proof of proto-language in primates. However, there is some evidence that this behavior does not refer to the predators themselves but to threat, distinguishing calls from words.\n\nBarbary macaque\n\nAnother species that exhibits alarm calls is the Barbary macaque. Barbary macaque mothers are able to recognize their own offspring's calls and behave accordingly.\n\nDiana monkeys\n\nDiana monkeys also produce alarm signals. Adult males respond to each other's calls, showing that calling can be contagious. Their calls differ based on signaller sex, threat type, habitat, and caller ontogenetic or lifetime predator experience. \n\nDiana monkeys emit different alarm calls as a result of their sex. Male alarm calls are primarily used for resource defence, male-male competition, and communication between groups of conspecifics. Female alarm calls are mainly used for communication within groups of conspecifics to avoid predation. \n\nAlarm calls are also predator-specific. In Taï National Park, Diana monkeys are preyed on by leopards, eagles, and chimpanzees, but only emit alarm calls for leopards and eagles. When threatened by chimpanzees, they use silent, cryptic behaviour and when threatened by leopards or eagles, they emit predator-specific alarm signals. When researchers play recordings of alarm calls produced by chimpanzees in response to predation by leopards, about fifty per cent of nearby Diana monkeys switch from a chimpanzee antipredator response to a leopard antipredator response. The tendency to switch responses is especially prominent among Diana monkey populations that live within the main range of the chimpanzee community. This shift in antipredator response suggests that the monkeys interpret chimpanzee-produced, leopard-induced alarm calls as evidence for the presence of a leopard. When the same monkeys are then played recordings of leopard growls, their reactions confirm that they had anticipated the presence of a leopard. There are three possible cognitive mechanisms explaining how Diana monkeys recognize chimpanzee-produced, leopard-induced alarm calls as evidence for a nearby leopard: associative learning, causal reasoning, or a specialized learning programme driven by adaptive antipredator behaviour necessary for survival. \n\nIn Taï National Park and Tiwai Island, specific acoustic markers in the alarm calls of Diana monkeys convey both threat type and caller familiarity information to a receiver. In Taï National Park, males respond to eagle alarm signals based on predator type and caller familiarity. When the caller is unfamiliar to the receiver, the response call is a 'standard' eagle alarm call, characterized by a lack of frequency transition at the onset of the call. When the caller is familiar, the response call is an atypical eagle alarm call, characterized by a frequency transition at onset, and the response is faster than to that of unfamiliar caller. On Tiwai Island, males respond in the opposite way to eagle alarm signals. When the caller is familiar, the response call is a 'standard' eagle alarm call, without a frequency transition at onset. When the caller is unfamiliar, the response call is an atypical eagle alarm call, with a frequency transition at onset. \n\nThe differences in alarm call responses are due to differences in habitat. In Taï National Park, there is a low predation risk from eagles, high primate abundance, strong intergroup competition, and a tendency for group encounters to result in high levels of aggression. Therefore, even familiar males are a threat to whom males respond with aggression and an atypical eagle alarm call. Only unfamiliar males, who are likely to be solitary and non-threatening, do not receive an aggressive response and receive only a typical alarm call. On Tiwai Island, there is a high predation risk from eagles, low primate abundance, a tendency for group encounters to result in peaceful retreats, low resource competition, and frequent sharing of foraging areas. Therefore, there is a lack of aggression towards familiar conspecifics to whom receivers respond with a 'standard' eagle call. There is only aggression towards unfamiliar conspecifics, to whom receivers respond with an atypical call. Simply put, a response with a typical eagle alarm call prioritizes the risk of predation, while a response with an atypical alarm call prioritizes social aggression.\n\nDiana monkeys also display a predisposition for flexibility in acoustic variation of alarm call assembly related to caller ontogenetic or lifetime predator experience. In Taï National Park and on Tiwai Island, monkeys have a predisposition to threat-specific alarm signals. In Taï National Park, males produce three threat-specific calls in response to three threats: eagles, leopards, and general disturbances. On Tiwai Island, males produce two threat-specific calls in response to two groups of threats: eagles, and leopards or general disturbances. The latter are likely grouped together because leopards have not been present on the island for at least 30 years. Other primates, such as Guereza monkeys and putty-nosed monkeys, also have two main predator-specific assemblies of alarm calls. Predator-specific alarm signals differ based on call sequence assembly. General disturbances in Taï National Park and both general disturbances and leopards on Tiwai Island result in alarm calls assembled into long sequences. Conversely, leopards in Taï National Park result in alarm calls that typically begin with voiced inhalations followed by a small number of calls. These differences in alarm call arrangement between habitats are due to ontogenetic experience; specifically, a lack of experience with leopards on Tiwai Island causes them to be classified in the same predator category as general disturbances, and accordingly, leopards receive the same type of alarm call arrangement. \n\nSexual selection for predator-specific alarm signals\n\nIn guenons, selection is responsible for the evolution of predator-specific alarm calls from loud calls. Loud calls travel long distances, greater than that of the home range, and can be used as beneficial alarm calls to warn conspecifics or showcase their awareness of and deter a predator. A spectrogram of a subadult male call shows that the call is a composition of elements from a female alarm call and male loud call, suggesting the transition from the latter to the former during puberty and suggesting that alarm calls gave rise to loud calls through sexual selection. Evidence of sexual selection in loud calls includes structural adaptations for long-range communication, co-incidence of loud calls and sexual maturity, and sexual dimorphism in loud calls. \n\nControversy over the semantic properties of alarm calls\n\nNot all scholars of animal communication accept the interpretation of alarm signals in monkeys as having semantic properties or transmitting \"information\". Prominent spokespersons for this opposing view are Michael Owren and Drew Rendall, whose work on this topic has been widely cited and debated. The alternative to the semantic interpretation of monkey alarm signals as suggested in the cited works is that animal communication is primarily a matter of influence rather than information, and that vocal alarm signals are essentially emotional expressions influencing the animals that hear them. In this view monkeys do not designate predators by naming them, but may react with different degrees of vocal alarm depending on the nature of the predator and its nearness on detection, as well as by producing different types of vocalization under the influence of the monkey's state and movement during the different types of escape required by different predators. Other monkeys may learn to use these emotional cues along with the escape behaviour of the alarm signaller to help make a good decision about the best escape route for themselves, without there having been any naming of predators.\n\nChimpanzees emit alarm calls in response to predators, such as leopards and snakes. They produce three types of alarm calls: acoustically-variable 'hoos', 'barks', and 'SOS screams'. Alarm signalling is impacted by receiver knowledge and caller age, can be coupled with receiver monitoring, and is important to the understanding of the evolution of hominoid communication.\n\nReceiver knowledge \n\nAlarm signalling varies depending on the receiver's knowledge of a certain threat. Chimpanzees are significantly more likely to produce an alarm call when conspecifics are unaware of a potential threat or were not nearby when a previous alarm call was emitted. Interestingly, when judging if conspecifics are unaware of potential dangers, chimpanzees do not solely look for behavioural cues, but also assess receiver mental states and use this information to target signalling and monitoring. In a recent experiment, caller chimpanzees were shown a fake snake as a predator and were played pre-recorded calls from receivers. Some receivers emitted calls that were snake-related, and therefore represented receivers with knowledge of the predator, while other receivers emitted calls that were not snake-related, and therefore represented receivers without knowledge of the predator. In response to the non-snake-related calls from receivers, the signallers increased their vocal and nonvocal signalling and coupled it with increased receiver monitoring. \n\nCaller age \n\nChimpanzee age impacts the frequency of alarm signalling. Chimpanzees over 80 months of age are more likely to produce an alarm call than those less than 80 months of age. There are several hypotheses for this lack of alarm calling in infants zero to four years of age. The first hypothesis is a lack of motivation to produce alarm calls because of mothers in close proximity that minimize the infant's perception of a threat or that respond to a threat before the infant can. Infants may also be more likely to use distress calls to catch their mother's attention in order for her to produce an alarm call. Infants might also lack the physical ability to produce alarm calls or lack the necessary experience to classify unfamiliar objects as dangerous and worthy of an alarm signal. Therefore, alarm calling may require advanced levels of development, perception, categorization, and social cognition.\n\nOther factors\n\nOther factors, such as signaller arousal, receiver identity, or increased risk of predation from calling, do not have a significant effect on the frequency of alarm call production.\n\nReceiver monitoring\n\nHowever, while alarm signals can be coupled with receiver monitoring, there is a lack of consensus on the definition, starting age, and purpose of monitoring. It is either defined as the use of three subsequent gaze alternations, from a threat to a nearby conspecific and back to the threat, or as the use of two gaze alternations. Moreover, while some studies only report gaze alternation as starting in late juveniles, other studies report gaze alternation in infants as early as five months of age. In infants and juveniles, it is potentially a means of social referencing or social learning through which younger chimpanzees check the reactions of more experienced conspecifics in order to learn about new situations, such as potential threats. It has also been proposed to be a communicative behaviour or simply the result of shifts in attention between different environmental elements. \n\nEvolution of hominoid communication\n\nThe evolution of hominoid communication is evident through chimpanzee 'hoo' vocalizations and alarm calls. Researchers propose that communication evolved as natural selection diversified 'hoo' vocalizations into context-dependent 'hoos' for travel, rest, and threats. Context-dependent communication is beneficial and likely maintained by selection as it facilities cooperative activities and social cohesion between signallers and receivers that can increase the likelihood of survival. Alarm calls in chimpanzees also point to the evolution of hominoid language. Callers assess conspecifics' knowledge of threats, fill their need for information, and, in doing so, use social cues and intentionality to inform communication. Filling a gap in information and incorporating social cues and intentionality into communication are all components of human language. These shared elements between chimpanzee and human communication suggest an evolutionary basis, most likely that our last common ancestor with chimpanzees also possessed these linguistic abilities.\n\nDeceptive alarm calls are used by male swallows (\"Hirundo rustica\"). Males give these false alarm calls when females leave the nest area during the mating season, and are thus able to disrupt extra-pair copulations. As this is likely to be costly to females, it can be seen as an example of sexual conflict.\n\nCounterfeit alarm calls are also used by thrushes to avoid intraspecific competition. By sounding a bogus alarm call normally used to warn of aerial predators, they can frighten other birds away, allowing them to eat undisturbed.\n\nVervets seem to be able to understand the referent of alarm calls instead of merely the acoustic properties, and if another species' specific alarm call (terrestrial or aerial predator, for instance) is used incorrectly with too high of a regularity, the vervet will learn to ignore the analogous vervet call as well.\n\nAlarm signals need not be communicated only by auditory means. For example, many animals may use chemosensory alarm signals, communicated by chemicals known as pheromones. Minnows and catfish release alarm pheromones (\"Schreckstoff\") when injured, which cause nearby fish to hide in dense schools near the bottom. Animals are not the only organism to communicate threats to conspecifics either; some plants are able to perform a similar trick. Lima beans release volatile chemical signals that are received by nearby plants of the same species when infested with spider mites. This 'message' allows the recipients to prepare themselves by activating defense genes, making them less vulnerable to attack, and also attracting another mite species that is a predator of spider mites (\"indirect defence\"). Although it is conceivable that other plants are only intercepting a message primarily functioning to attract \"bodyguards\", some plants spread this signal on to others themselves, suggesting an indirect benefit from increased inclusive fitness.\n\nFalse chemical alarm signals are also employed. The aphid \"Myzus persicae\" is repelled by the wild potato \"Solanum berthaultii\" which releases a chemical from its leaves that acts as an allomone to disrupt aphid attacks.\n\n\nDepartment of Systematics and Ecology, University of Kansas \n"}
{"id": "2136760", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2136760", "title": "Munafiq", "text": "Munafiq\n\nIn Islam, the munafiqun ('hypocrites', , singular \"munāfiq\") or false muslim were a group decried in the Quran as outward Muslims who were inwardly concealing disbelief and actively sought to undermine the Muslim community. Munafiq is a person who in public and in community shows that he is a Muslim but rejects Islam or propagate against it either in his heart or among enemies of Islam. The hypocrisy itself is called \"nifāq\" ().\n\n\nThe Qur'an has many verses discussing \"munāfiqūn\", referring to them as more dangerous to Muslims than the worst non-Muslim enemies of Islam.\n\nHadith (record of the words, actions attributed to Muhammad) describe several traits of a hypocrite and these trait include both apparent actions and his/her inner iman/faith like the following:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2136761", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2136761", "title": "Prometric", "text": "Prometric\n\nPrometric, also known as Prometric Testing, is a U.S.-based company in the test administration industry. Its corporate headquarters is located in Canton (Baltimore, Maryland) in the United States. Prometric operates a test center network composed of thousands of sites in 160 countries. Many examinations are administered at Prometric sites, including those from the: \n\n\nPrometric's computerized testing centers were founded by Drake International in 1990 under the name Drake Prometric. In 1995, Drake Prometric L.P. was sold to Sylvan Learning in a cash and stock deal worth approximately $44.5 million. The acquired business was renamed Sylvan Prometric, then sold to Thomson Corporation in 2000. The Thomson Corporation announced its desire to sell Prometric in the fall of 2006, and Educational Testing Service announced plans to acquire it. On Monday, October 15, 2007, Educational Testing Service (ETS) closed its acquisition of Prometric from the Thomson Corporation. In 2018, Prometric was bought by Baring Private Equity Asia.\nPrometric sells a range of services, including test development, test delivery, and data management capabilities. Prometric delivers and administers tests to approximately 500 clients in the academic, professional, government, corporate and information technology markets. While there are 3000 Prometric test centers across the world, including every U.S. state and territory (except Wake Island), whether a particular test can be taken outside the U.S. depends on the testing provider. For example, despite the fact that Prometric test centers exist worldwide, some exams are only offered in the country where the client program exists. The locations where a test is offered, as well as specific testing procedures for the day of the exam, are dictated by the client.\n\nIn the Republic of Ireland, Prometric's local subsidiary is responsible for administering the Driver Theory Test.\n\nIn 2009, the company faced a hurdle due to widespread technical problems on one of India's MBA entrance exams, the Common Admission Test. Over 8000 test takers were affected.\n\nIn 2011, Prometric lost the contract for conducting the Oracle certification exam and they were replaced by Pearson VUE.\n\nIn 2014, the IBM Professional Certification Program exam delivery was moved from Prometric to Pearson VUE Test Centers.\n\nIn 2014, Prometric lost the bid for conducting it second time to an Indian tech firm.\n\nIn 2014, a latency issue affected one Prometric-administered test, namely the AIPGMEE.\n\nIn 2014, Microsoft ended its exam partnership with Prometric.\n\nIn 2017, Prometric lost the contract for conducting the Medical College Admission Test (MCAT) exam. They were replaced with Pearson VUE. That same year, Charles Kernan was appointed as the new President and CEO of Prometric, replacing Michael Brannick. Brannick had held the position since 2001.\n\nIn 2019, Project Management Institute (PMI) ended its exam partnership with Prometric. They were replaced with Pearson VUE.\n\nIn 2020, Prometric cancelled thousands of examinations in response to COVID-19. Amidst cancellations, the company was thrown into disarray for mismanagement of these cancellations, especially those of essential examinations such as United States Medical Licensing Examinations (USMLE) & Comprehensive Osteopathic Medical Licensing Examination (COMLEX). The consequences of this tribulation are yet to be determined.\n\n"}
