{"id": "2093225", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093225", "title": "Elena Kagan", "text": "Elena Kagan\n\nElena Kagan (; born April 28, 1960) is an Associate Justice of the Supreme Court of the United States. She was nominated by President Barack Obama in May 2010, and confirmed by the Senate in August of the same year. She is the fourth woman to serve as a Justice of the Supreme Court.\n\nKagan was born and raised in New York City. After graduating from Princeton University, the University of Oxford, and Harvard Law School, she clerked for a federal Court of Appeals judge and for Supreme Court Justice Thurgood Marshall. She began her career as a professor at the University of Chicago Law School, leaving to serve as Associate White House Counsel, and later as policy adviser under President Bill Clinton. After a nomination to the United States Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit, which expired without action, she became a professor at Harvard Law School and was later named its first female dean.\n\nIn 2009, Kagan became the first female Solicitor General of the United States. President Obama nominated her to the Supreme Court to fill the vacancy arising from the impending retirement of Justice John Paul Stevens. The United States Senate confirmed her nomination by a vote of 63 to 37. She is considered part of the Court's liberal wing but tends to be one of the more moderate justices of that group. She wrote the majority opinion in \"Cooper v. Harris,\" a landmark case restricting the permissible uses of race in drawing congressional districts.\n\nKagan was born on April 28, 1960, in Manhattan, the second of three children of Robert Kagan, an attorney who represented tenants trying to remain in their homes, and Gloria (Gittelman) Kagan, who taught at Hunter College Elementary School. Both her parents were the children of Russian immigrants. Kagan has two brothers, Marc and Irving.\n\nKagan and her family lived in a third-floor apartment at West End Avenue and 75th Street and attended Lincoln Square Synagogue. She was independent and strong-willed in her youth and, according to a former law partner of her father's, clashed with her Orthodox rabbi, Shlomo Riskin, over aspects of her bat mitzvah. \"She had strong opinions about what a bat mitzvah should be like, which didn't parallel the wishes of the rabbi,\" her father's colleague said. Kagan and Riskin negotiated a solution. Riskin had never performed a ritual bat mitzvah before. She \"felt very strongly that there should be ritual bat mitzvah in the synagogue, no less important than the ritual bar mitzvah. This was really the first formal bat mitzvah we had,\" he said. Kagan asked to read from the Torah on a Saturday morning as the boys did, but ultimately read from the Book of Ruth on a Friday night. She now practices Conservative Judaism.\n\nKagan's childhood friend Margaret Raymond recalled that she was a teenage smoker but not a partier. On Saturday nights, Raymond and Kagan were \"more apt to sit on the steps of the Metropolitan Museum of Art and talk.\" Kagan also loved literature and reread Jane Austen's \"Pride and Prejudice\" every year. In her 1977 Hunter College High School yearbook, she is pictured in a judge's robe and holding a gavel. Next to the photo is a quotation from former Supreme Court Justice Felix Frankfurter: \"Government is itself an art, one of the subtlest of arts.\"\n\nKagan attended Hunter College High School, where her mother taught. The school had a reputation as one of the most elite learning institutions for high school girls and attracted students from all over New York City. Kagan emerged as one of the school's more outstanding students. She was elected president of the student government and served on a student-faculty consultative committee. After graduating, Kagan attended Princeton University, where she earned a Bachelors of Arts \"summa cum laude\" in history in 1981. She was particularly drawn to American history and archival research. She wrote a senior thesis under historian Sean Wilentz titled \"To the Final Conflict: Socialism in New York City, 1900–1933\". In it she wrote, \"Through its own internal feuding, then, the SP [Socialist Party] exhausted itself forever. The story is a sad but also a chastening one for those who, more than half a century after socialism's decline, still wish to change America.\" Wilentz says Kagan did not mean to defend socialism, noting that she \"was interested in it. To study something is not to endorse it.\"\n\nAs an undergraduate, Kagan also served as editorial chair of \"The Daily Princetonian\". Along with eight other students, she penned a \"Declaration of the Campaign for a Democratic University\". It called for \"a fundamental restructuring of university governance\" and condemned Princeton's administration for making decisions \"behind closed doors\". Despite the liberal tone of \"The Daily Princetonian\"'s editorials, Kagan was politically restrained in her dealings with fellow reporters. Her \"Daily Princetonian\" colleague Steven Bernstein has said he \"cannot recall a time in which Kagan expressed her political views\". He described Kagan's political stances as \"sort of liberal, democratic, progressive tradition, and everything with lower case\".\nIn 1980, Kagan received Princeton's Daniel M. Sachs Class of 1960 Graduating Scholarship, one of the highest general awards the university confers. This enabled her to study at Worcester College, Oxford. As part of her graduation requirement, Kagan wrote a thesis called \"The Development and Erosion of the American Exclusionary Rule: A Study in Judicial Method\". It presented a critical look at the exclusionary rule and its evolution on the Supreme Court—in particular the Warren Court. She earned a Master of Philosophy in Politics at Oxford in 1983.\n\nIn 1983, at age 23, Kagan entered Harvard Law School. Her adjustment to Harvard's atmosphere was rocky; she received the worst grades of her entire law school career in her first semester. Kagan went on to earn an A in 17 of the 21 courses she took at Harvard. She was also immersed in the law as a summer associate in the law offices of Fried, Frank, Harris, Shriver & Jacobson, a Wall Street firm in New York, where she worked in the litigation department. In 1986 she received a Juris Doctor, \"magna cum laude\", from Harvard Law School, where she was supervisory editor of the \"Harvard Law Review\". Her friend Jeffrey Toobin recalls that Kagan \"stood out from the start as one with a formidable mind. She's good with people. At the time, the law school was a politically charged and divided place. She navigated the factions with ease, and won the respect of everyone.\"\n\nIn 1987 Kagan was a law clerk for Judge Abner J. Mikva of the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit. She became one of Mikva's favorite clerks; he called her \"the pick of the litter\". In 1988 Kagan clerked for Justice Thurgood Marshall of the U.S. Supreme Court. Marshall said he hired Kagan to help him put the \"spark\" back into his opinions as the court had been undergoing a conservative shift since William Rehnquist became Chief Justice in 1986. Marshall nicknamed the Kagan \"Shorty\".\n\nKagan next entered private practice as a junior associate at the Washington, D.C., law firm of Williams & Connolly. As a junior associate, she drafted briefs and conducted discovery. During her short time at the firm she handled five lawsuits that involved First Amendment or media law issues and libel issues.\n\nIn 1991 Kagan became an assistant professor at the University of Chicago Law School. While there she first met Barack Obama, a guest lecturer at the school. While on the UC faculty, Kagan published a law review article on the regulation of First Amendment hate speech in the wake of the Supreme Court's ruling in \"R.A.V. v. City of St. Paul\"; an article discussing the significance of governmental motive in regulating speech; and a review of a book by Stephen L. Carter discussing the judicial confirmation process. In the first article, which became highly influential, Kagan argued that the Supreme Court should examine governmental motives when deciding First Amendment cases and analyzed historic draft-card burning and flag burning cases in light of free speech arguments.\n\nIn 1993, Senator Joe Biden appointed Kagan as a special counsel for the Senate Judiciary Committee. During this time, she worked on Ruth Bader Ginsburg's Supreme Court confirmation hearings.\n\nKagan became a tenured professor of law in 1995. According to her colleagues, Kagan's students complimented and admired her from the beginning, and she was granted tenure \"despite the reservations of some colleagues who thought she had not published enough\".\n\nKagan served as Associate White House Counsel for Bill Clinton from 1995 to 1996, when Mikva served as White House Counsel. She worked on such controversial issues plaguing the Clinton administration as the Whitewater controversy, the White House travel office controversy, and \"Clinton v. Jones\". From 1997 to 1999 she worked as Deputy Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy and Deputy Director of the Domestic Policy Council. Kagan worked on topics like budget appropriations, campaign finance reform, and social welfare issues. Her work is catalogued in the Clinton Library. Kagan coauthored a 1997 memo urging Clinton to support a ban on late-term abortions: \"We recommend that you endorse the Daschle amendment in order to sustain your credibility on HR 1122 and prevent Congress from overriding your veto.\"\n\nOn June 17, 1999, Clinton nominated Kagan to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit, to replace James L. Buckley, who took senior status in 1996. The Senate Judiciary Committee's Republican Chairman, Orrin Hatch, scheduled no hearing, effectively ending her nomination. When the Senate term ended, her nomination lapsed, as did that of fellow Clinton nominee Allen Snyder.\n\nAfter her service in the White House and her lapsed judicial nomination, Kagan returned to academia in 1999. She initially sought to return to the University of Chicago, but she had given up her tenured position during her extended stint in the Clinton Administration, and the school chose not to rehire her, reportedly due to doubts about her commitment to academia. Kagan quickly found a position as a visiting professor at Harvard Law School. While there, she authored a law review article on United States administrative law, focusing on the president's role in formulating and influencing federal administrative law. The article was honored as the year's top scholarly article by the American Bar Association's Section on Administrative Law and Regulatory Practice.\nIn 2001, Kagan was named a full professor at Harvard Law School and in 2003 she was named dean of the Law School by Harvard University President Lawrence Summers. She succeeded Robert C. Clark, who had served as dean for over a decade. The focus of her tenure was on improving student satisfaction. Efforts included constructing new facilities and reforming the first-year curriculum as well as aesthetic changes and creature comforts, such as free morning coffee. She has been credited for a consensus-building leadership style that defused the school's previous ideological discord.\n\nAs dean, Kagan inherited a capital campaign, \"Setting the Standard,\" in 2003. It ended in 2008 with a record-breaking raised, 19% more than the original goal. Kagan made a number of prominent new hires, increasing the size of the faculty considerably. Her coups included hiring legal scholar Cass Sunstein away from the University of Chicago and Lawrence Lessig away from Stanford. She also made an effort to hire conservative scholars, such as former Bush administration official Jack Goldsmith, for the traditionally liberal-leaning faculty.\n\nAccording to Kevin Washburn, then dean of the University of New Mexico School of Law, Kagan transformed Harvard Law School from a harsh environment for students to one that was much more student-focused.\n\nDuring her deanship, Kagan upheld a decades-old policy barring military recruiters from the Office of Career Services because she felt the military's \"Don't Ask, Don't Tell\" policy discriminated against gays and lesbians. According to Campus Progress, \n\nIn October 2003, Kagan sent an email to students and faculty deploring that military recruiters had shown up on campus in violation of this policy. The email read in part, \"This action causes me deep distress. I abhor the military's discriminatory recruitment policy\". She also wrote that it was \"a profound wrong—a moral injustice of the first order\".\n\nFrom 2005 to 2008, Kagan was a member of the Research Advisory Council of the Goldman Sachs Global Markets Institute. She received a $10,000 stipend for her service.\n\nBy early 2007, Kagan was a finalist for the presidency of Harvard University after Lawrence Summers's resignation the previous year. The position ultimately went to Drew Gilpin Faust instead. Kagan was reportedly disappointed, and law school students threw her a party to express their appreciation for her leadership.\n\nOn January 5, 2009, President-elect Barack Obama announced he would nominate Kagan to be Solicitor General. At the time of her nomination, Kagan had never argued a case before any court. At least two previous solicitors general, Robert Bork and Kenneth Starr, had no previous Supreme Court appearances.\n\nThe two main questions senators had for Kagan during her confirmation hearings were whether she would defend statutes that she personally opposed and whether she was qualified to be solicitor general given her lack of courtroom experience. Kagan testified that she would defend laws, such as the Defense of Marriage Act, pursuant to which states were not required to recognize same-sex marriages originating in other states, \"if there is any reasonable basis to do so\". The Senate confirmed her on March 19, 2009, by a vote of 61 to 31. She was the first woman to hold the position. Upon taking office, Kagan pledged to defend any statute as long as there was a colorable argument to be made, regardless of her personal opinions. As Solicitor General, Kagan's job was to act as the lawyer for the United States and defend legislation and executive actions in appeals before the Supreme Court. Thus the arguments she made as Solicitor General were not necessarily indicative of her personal beliefs.\n\nKagan's first appearance before the Supreme Court was on September 9, 2009, one month before the typical start of a new term in October, in the re-argument of \"Citizens United v. Federal Election Commission\", . During argument, she asked the court to uphold a 1990 precedent that allowed the government to restrict corporations' use of their treasuries to campaign for or against political candidates. As an alternative argument, Kagan further contended that if the court would not uphold precedent, it should keep its ruling narrowly focused on corporations that resembled the petitioning organization, Citizens United, rather than reconsidering the constitutionality of broader restrictions on corporate campaign finance. In a 5-4 decision, the court overturned precedent and allowed corporations to spend freely in elections, a major defeat for the Obama administration.\n\nDuring her 15 months as Solicitor General, Kagan argued six cases before the Supreme Court. \"The Washington Post\" described her style during argument as \"confident\" and \"conversational\". She helped win four cases: \"Salazar v. Buono\", \"United States v. Comstock\", , \"Holder v. Humanitarian Law Project\", , and \"Free Enterprise Fund v. Public Company Accounting Oversight Board\", .\n\nBefore Obama's election, Kagan was the subject of media speculation as a potential Supreme Court nominee if a Democratic president were elected in 2008. Obama had his first Supreme Court vacancy to fill in 2009 when Associate Justice David H. Souter announced his upcoming retirement. Senior Obama adviser David Axelrod later recounted that during the search for a new justice, Antonin Scalia told him he hoped Obama would nominate Kagan, because of her intelligence. On May 13, 2009, the Associated Press reported that Obama was considering Kagan, among others. On May 26, 2009, Obama announced that he had chosen Sonia Sotomayor.\n\nOn April 9, 2010, Justice John Paul Stevens announced he would retire at the start of the Court's summer 2010 recess, triggering new speculation about potential replacements, and Kagan was once again considered a contender. In a \"Fresh Dialogues\" interview, Jeffrey Toobin, a Supreme Court analyst and Kagan's friend and law school classmate, speculated that she would be Obama's nominee, describing her as \"very much an Obama-type person, a moderate Democrat, a consensus builder\". This alarmed some liberals and progressives, who worried that \"replacing Stevens with Kagan risks moving the Court to the right, perhaps substantially to the right\".\n\nOn May 10, 2010, Obama nominated Kagan to the Supreme Court. The deans of over one-third of the country's law schools, 69 people in total, endorsed the nomination in an open letter in early June. It lauded what it called her coalition-building skills and \"understanding of both doctrine and policy\" as well as her written record of legal analysis.\n\nKagan's confirmation hearings before the Senate Judiciary Committee began on June 28. As they began, Kagan was expected to be confirmed, with Republican Senator John Cornyn calling Kagan \"justice-to-be\". During the hearings, she demonstrated a deep knowledge of Supreme Court cases, expounding upon cases Senators mentioned in their questions to her and doing so without taking notes on the questions. A number of Democratic senators criticized recent decisions of the court as \"activist\", but Kagan avoided joining in their criticisms. Like many prior nominees, including Chief Justice John Roberts, she declined to answer whether she thought particular cases were correctly decided or how she would vote on particular issues. Republican Senator John Kyl and Democratic Senator Arlen Specter criticized her evasiveness. Specter said it obscured the way justices actually ruled once on the court. He noted that Kagan published an article in the \"Chicago Law Review\" in 1995 in which she criticized the evasiveness she came to practice. Republican Senators criticized Kagan's background as more political than judicial; Kagan responded by promising she would be impartial and fair. On July 20, 2010, the Senate Judiciary Committee voted 13–6 to recommend Kagan's confirmation to the full Senate. On August 5 the full Senate confirmed her nomination by a vote of 63–37. The voting was largely along party lines, with five Republicans (Richard Lugar, Judd Gregg, Lindsey Graham, Susan Collins, and Olympia Snowe) supporting her and one Democrat (Ben Nelson) opposing.\n\nKagan's swearing-in ceremony took place on August 7, 2010, at the White House. Chief Justice John Roberts administered the prescribed constitutional and judicial oaths of office, at which time she became the 112th justice (100th associate justice) of the Supreme Court. She is the first person appointed to the Court without any prior experience as a judge since William Rehnquist and Lewis F. Powell Jr., who both became members in 1972. She is also the fourth female justice in the court's history, and the eighth Jewish justice.\n\nIdeologically, Kagan is part of the Supreme Court's liberal wing: she voted with the liberal bloc in \"King v. Burwell,\" , finding that Obamacare's subsidies and individual mandate are constitutional, and in \"Obergefell v. Hodges,\" , which prohibits states from outlawing same-sex marriage. In 2018, \"Slate\" observed that Kagan had crossed ideological lines on multiple cases during the proceeding term, and considered her to be part of a centrist bloc along with Justices Roberts, Stephen Breyer, and Anthony Kennedy. Still, \"FiveThirtyEight\" observed that Kagan voted with her more liberal peers, Ginsburg and Sotomayor, over 90% of the time. Also during the 2017–2018 term, Kagan most commonly agreed with Breyer; they voted together in 93% of cases. She agreed least often with Justice Samuel Alito, in 58.82% of cases.\n\nBecause of her service as solicitor general, Kagan recused herself from 28 out of the 78 cases heard during her first year on the court to avoid conflicts of interest. In 2017, Kagan recused herself from the immigrant-detention case \"Jennings v. Rodriguez\" because she authorized a filing in the case when she was solicitor general.\n\nKagan is assigned to the Ninth Circuit, the largest US circuit court by geographic area. It includes Alaska, Arizona, California, Guam, Hawaii, Idaho, Oregon, Montana, Nevada, the Northern Mariana Islands, and Washington state. Circuit justices are principally responsible for responding to emergency requests (for example, applications for emergency stays of executions). Kagan had previously been responsible for the Sixth Circuit and the Seventh Circuit, but upon Brett Kavanaugh's confirmation, these circuits were reallotted to Justices Sotomayor and Kavanaugh and the Ninth Circuit was moved from Justice Roberts to Kagan as of October 2018.\n\nKagan's first opinion as a justice, \"Ransom v. FIA Card Services\", was a statutory interpretation case where the court was tasked with determining what income a debtor was allowed to shield from creditors in bankruptcy. In an 8–1 decision, Kagan held that the Chapter 13 Bankruptcy statute precludes a debtor from taking an allowance for car-related expenses if the debtor owns the car outright and does not make loan or lease payments. She reasoned the word \"applicable\" was key to the statute, and debtors could only take allowances for car-related costs that applied. Kagan wrote the majority opinion in \"Kimble v. Marvel Entertainment, LLC\". In the 6–3 decision in favor of Marvel, she held that a patentee cannot receive royalties after the patent has expired. Kagan's opinion included several references to Spider-Man.\n\nKagan's first dissent came in the First Amendment case \"Arizona Christian School Tuition Organization v. Winn\", . Writing for the liberal wing, she took issue with the majority's creation of an exception to the Establishment Clause of the First Amendment. The majority held that Arizona taxpayers cannot challenge tax credits for those who donate to groups that provide scholarships to religious schools, drawing a distinction between the way the court treats tax credits and grants. Kagan deemed this distinction \"arbitrary\" because tax credits and grants can be used to achieve the same objectives. She viewed the majority's decision as creating a loophole for governments to fund religion.\n\nIn another Establishment Clause case, \"Town of Greece v. Galloway\", , Kagan wrote a dissent arguing that a prayer at a town council meeting failed to treat all Americans the same regardless of religion. \"Greece\" involved a town in New York inviting chaplains, for several years all Christian, to give a prayer before town council meetings. Unlike \"Marsh v. Chambers\", , where the Supreme Court had permitted a state legislature to open with a prayer, Kagan noted the board in \"Greece\" was a forum for ordinary citizens. Kagan argued the use of prayer showed a preference for a particular religion and thus violated Americans' First Amendment rights.\n\nKagan dissented in \"Luis v. United States\", , where the five-justice majority held that the pre-trial freezing of untainted assets not traced back to criminal activity was a violation of a defendant's sixth amendment right to counsel when those assets were needed to retain counsel of the defendant's choosing. The defendant, Sila Luis, had been charged with Medicare fraud, in which prosecutors alleged he illegally charged $45 million for unneeded services. The prosecutors asked a judge to freeze $2 million of Luis's assets, which Luis said she needed to pay legal bills, after she had already spent most of the $45 million she made from the alleged scheme. A prior Supreme Court case, \"United States v. Monsanto\", , held that a court could freeze a defendant's assets pre-trial, including funds obtained through the alleged sale of drugs, even when those assets were being used to hire an attorney. The majority sought to distinguish their holding in \"Luis\" from \"Monsanto\" based upon the nature of the funds being frozen; Luis's funds were not directly linked to her crime, whereas Monsanto's funds were. Kennedy dissented in \"Luis\" because he did not think criminal defendants should be treated differently based on how quickly they spent their illegal proceeds. Kagan agreed with Kennedy that the court's decision created inequity and drew an arbitrary distinction, but further opined that \"Monsanto\" might have been wrongly decided. Kagan suggested she would be willing to overturn such precedent in the future, but declined to do so in the case at bar because Luis had not sought that relief. Her vote thus rested on procedural grounds while she expressed skepticism that the government should be able to freeze the assets of a criminal defendant not yet convicted, and thus still benefiting from the presumption of innocence, with a mere showing of probable cause that the property will ultimately be subject to forfeiture.\n\nKagan wrote for the majority in \"Cooper v. Harris\", , striking down the configuration of two of North Carolina's congressional districts. The court held the districts' boundaries were unconstitutional because they relied excessively on race and did not pass the strict scrutiny standard of review. In a footnote, Kagan set forth a new principle, that congressional districts drawn with race as the dominant factor may be found to be an unlawful racial gerrymander even if they have another goal, such as sorting voters by political affiliation. Applying this principle to the facts of the case, the Court unanimously struck down North Carolina's District 1, where state lawmakers had increased the state's black voting-age population by 4.1% even though the black population had already been able to elect preferred candidates before the district lines were redrawn. The increase of black voters in District 1 resulted in a decrease of black voters in other districts. The Court also struck down District 12 by a vote of 5–3 for similar shifts in its racial composition. The dissent argued that those challenging the validity of the district had not proved that race caused the change in District 12. Kagan quoted court precedent that race must only be a predominate consideration, and that challengers did not need to prove politics was not a motivating factor.\n\nIn her first term on the Court, Kagan did not write any separate opinions, and wrote the fewest opinions of any Justice on the Court. She wrote only majority opinions or dissents that more senior justices assigned to her, and in which she and a group of justices agreed upon a rationale for deciding the case. This tendency to write for a group rather than herself made it difficult to discern her own views or where she might lean in future cases. She wrote the fewest opinions for the terms from 2011 through 2014, tying with Kennedy in 2011 and 2013.\n\nKagan's writing has been characterized as conversational, employing a range of rhetorical styles. She has said that she approaches writing on the court like she used to approach the classroom, with numerous strategies to engage the reader. Her opinions use examples and analogies to make them more understandable to a broad audience.\n\nLike other justices, Kagan makes public appearances when she is not hearing cases. In her first four years on the court, she made at least 20 public appearances. Kagan tends to choose speaking engagements that allow her to speak to students.\n\n\"Time\" magazine named Kagan one of its Time 100 most influential people for 2013. Former Supreme Court Justice Sandra Day O'Connor wrote the article on Kagan, calling her \"an incisive legal thinker\" and \"excellent communicator\". That same year, a painting of the four women to have served as Supreme Court justices, Kagan, Sotomayor, Ginsburg, and O'Connor, was unveiled at the National Portrait Gallery in Washington, D.C. In 2018, Kagan received the Marshall-Wythe Medallionan from William & Mary Law School, and an honorary degree of Doctor of Humane Letters from Hunter College.\n\nKagan's Harvard colleagues and friends have characterized her as a good conversationalist, warm, and having a good sense of humor. Before joining the Supreme Court, she was known to play poker and smoke cigars. Early on in her tenure as a justice, Kagan began socializing with several of her new colleagues. She attended the opera with Ginsburg, had dinner with Sotomayor, attended legal events with Kennedy and Clarence Thomas, and went hunting with Scalia. The hunting trips stemmed from a promise Kagan made to Senator James Risch of Idaho during a meeting before her confirmation. Risch expressed concern that as a New York City native Kagan did not understand the importance of hunting to his constituents. Kagan initially offered to go hunting with Risch before promising instead to go hunting with Scalia if confirmed. According to Kagan, Scalia later laughed when she told him of the promise and he took her to his hunting club for the first of several hunting trips. Kagan is known to spend time with longtime friends from law school and her stint in the Clinton administration rather than attending DC social events she is invited to as a justice. She has never married.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2093226", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093226", "title": "Civil defense Geiger counters", "text": "Civil defense Geiger counters\n\nThis article is about Geiger counters and Ion chamber instruments, and it uses the term \"Geiger counter\" as a colloquial name for any hand-held radiation measuring device in civil defense. However, most civil defense devices were ion-chamber radiological survey meters capable of measuring only high levels of radiation that would be present after a major nuclear event.\n\nMost Geiger and ion-chamber survey meters were issued by governmental civil defense organizations in several countries from the 1950s in the midst of the Cold War in an effort to help prepare citizens for a nuclear attack.\n\nMany of these same instruments are still in use today by some states, Texas amongst them, under the jurisdiction of the Texas Bureau of Radiation Control. They are regularly maintained, calibrated and deployed to fire depts and other emergency services.\n\nCD Counters came in a variety of different models, each with specific capabilities. Each of these models has an analog meter from 1 to 5, with 1/10 tick marks. Thus, at X10, the meter reads from 1 to 50.\n\nCD meters were produced by a number of different firms under contract. Victoreen, Lionel, Electro Neutronics, Nuclear Measurements, Chatham Electronics, International Pump and Machine Works, Universal Atomics, Anton Electronic Laboratories; Landers, Frary, & Clark; El Tronics, Jordan, and Nuclear Chicago are among the many manufacturers contracted.\nRegardless of producer, most counters exhibit the same basic physical characteristics, albeit with slight variations between some production runs: a yellow case with black knobs and meter bezels. Most US meters had a \"CD\" sticker on the side of the case.\n\nThese are instruments which use the Geiger principle of detection.\n\nThe CD V-700 is a Geiger counter employing a probe equipped with a Geiger–Müller tube manufactured by several companies under contract to US federal civil defense agencies in the 1950s and 1960s. This unit is quite sensitive and can be used to measure low levels of Gamma radiation and detect Beta radiation. In cases of high-radiation fields, the Geiger tube can saturate, causing the meter to read a very low level of radiation (close to 0 R/h) hence the necessity of the companion ion-chamber survey meters.\n\nThe CD V-718 is a variation of the US military-issue AN/VDR-2 RADIAC made by Nuclear Research Corporation, located in the US State of New Jersey. The Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) purchased a quantity of CD V-718s in the 1990s as a supplement to and partial replacement for the older meters in the inventory. The CD V-718 differs from the military AN/VDR-2 primarily by being painted bright \"civil defense\" yellow instead of olive green and being graduated in Röntgens rather than Grays. A much more modern and sophisticated device than earlier CD meters and equipped with a probe containing two Geiger-Mueller tubes of differing sensitivities, the CD V-718 can cover a much wider range of radiation levels than the earlier Geiger counters and ion-chamber survey meters combined (from .001mR/h to 10,000 R/h). As a result of its military heritage, the CD-V-718 is far more rugged than earlier CD meters, and can easily be mounted in vehicles.\n\nThese are instruments using the ionisation chamber principle.\n\nIf the meter on any of the ion chamber devices are observed to respond at all to a radiation source, evacuation of the area should be considered. No legally exempt source of gamma radiation would be expected to cause any visible deflection of the meter on its most sensitive setting, so it might be assumed that such a radiation field could be dangerous. Such a meter would not be expected to detect the presence of radiation except the very high levels that might be found in the event of a nuclear weapon detonation or a major release of radioactive material as from a nuclear reactor meltdown. The CD V ion chamber units are now all approaching 50 years old at a minimum and that they contain parts that are sensitive to moisture, so relatively frequent calibration and inspection by an accredited and properly equipped facility is required to ensure reliable and accurate function.\n\nBy far the most common US civil defense meter on the market today. This is a simple ion chamber radiological survey meter, specifically designed for high-radiation fields for which Geiger counters will give incorrect readings (see above). Survey meters do not read alpha or beta radiation. They work by radiation penetrating the case of the unit and the enclosed ionization chamber to produce a visible reading between 0.1R/h and 500R/h (X0.1, X1, X10, and X100 scales).\n\nSimilar to the CD V-715, this unit reads from 0.1R/h to 500R/h. It is also a survey meter with an ionization chamber, however this unit's chamber is detachable for hanging outside your shelter or basement. When used, the ionization chamber would be inserted into a yellow anti-contamination bag, tied off, and hung outside a bomb shelter to measure radioactivity levels from a safe distance. An extension coaxial cord, typically stored inside the unit, is then run from the outdoor chamber to the indoor meter. The coaxial spool is used to prop the meter up for reading. This would allow those hiding to wait until outside radiation levels have fallen to a \"safe\" level before emerging. When using the extension cable, the accuracy of the meter can be slightly reduced to plus or minus 20%.\n\nSimilar to the CD V-715, the CD V-720 is a fixed-position ionization chamber survey meter. Unlike any other survey meter, however, this unit has a movable beta shield on the bottom of the unit for detecting high levels of beta radiation. When slid to the open position, beta particles are allowed to directly penetrate the ionization chamber. With the beta shield closed, only gamma rays can penetrate both the shield and ionization chamber. This meter reads from 1R/h to 500R/h (X1, X10, and X100 scales). The CD V-720 was produced in 4 models (1,2,3, and 3A), Chatham made the model 1, Landeds Fray and Clark made the model 3 (along with Victoreen Instruments), and Victoreen Instruments made all other models. All but the Victoreen model 3 and model 3A used a combination of D and 22.5 volt B batteries, while the Victoreen models 3 and 3A just used 2 D batteries. By 1962 113,231 had been procured, but in September 1985 FEMA declared all models except the Victoreen model 3 and model 3A obsolete.\n\nThe CD V-710 was another high range survey meter, however, unlike the CD V-720, CD V-715, and CD V-717 its scale is only 0-50 R/H (0-0.5, 0-5, and 0-50) making it more of a mid range meter, however it is still far too high to respond to any exempt sources. The CD V-710 was made in 5 different versions from 1955 to at least 1958, the model 1 was produced by El-Tronics, models 2 and 4 were produced by Jorden Electronics, and models 3 and 5 were produced by Victoreen Instruments, models 1-3 were metal, and 4 and 5 were plastic. All versions of the CD V-710 use a combination of D batteries and obsolete 22.5 volt B batteries. By 1959, 170,750 were procured, however the model was ultimately superseded by the CD V-715 and in September 1985 FEMA issued instructions that remaining CD V-710s should be disposed of as obsolete.\n\nAnother meter of note is the Kearny fallout meter. The plans for this meter were published in Appendix C of \"Nuclear War Survival Skills\" by Cresson Kearny from research performed at Oak Ridge National Laboratory. It was designed to be able to be constructed from household materials by someone with moderate mechanical ability on the eve of an attack. The plans are presented in a newspaper printable format.\n\nThe United States manufactured approximately 500,000 Geiger counters. Britain manufactured about 20,000 of each of its major types, and is second after the U.S. Some instruments were also manufactured by other countries in smaller numbers.\n\nThe American instruments dating from the Kennedy administration era were designed to use low voltage transistor electronics, and the batteries are still available today. However, most British civil defence instruments retained until 1982 or later were manufactured from 1953-7, and required high voltage batteries which became obsolete after portable valve radios were superseded by transistor ones.\n\nAll British civil defence instruments were jointly designed by the Home Office and the Ministry of Defence, and were also a military issue.\n\nThe first large scale British civil defence issue was the Geiger–Müller counter \"Meter, Contamination, No. 1\" set — stock number \"5CG0012\", of 1953. It had 0–10 mR/hour range with external probe and headphones. This was designed to use two 1.50 volt batteries, although later they were fitted with an inverter which used four 1.35 volt mercury cells or, alternatively, a mains electricity power pack. Many of these units remained in service until the 1980s. There was also a Mk. 2 model which used rubber connectors and cable for the probe unit, compared to the Plessey connectors of the Mk.1.\n\nThis used cold-cathode valves and very high impedance circuitry throughout to extend useful battery life as long as possible with the existing technology.\n\nThe British \"Radiac Survey Meter No. 2\" dates from 1953–1956, and required now-obsolete 15 and 30 volt high voltage batteries and a 1.5 volt standard cell, the latter used to power the valve heater filaments and meter illumination bulb). There was also a training unit, which measured 0–300 mR/h, and ran on four 30 volt batteries plus one 1.5V cell for the filaments. This meter used a large Geiger–Müller tube, as opposed to the ionisation chamber of the RSM No. 2.\n\nThese meters were favoured, as they had been tested on fallout in Australia after \"Operation Buffalo\" nuclear tests, and were retained until 1982 by commissioning a manufacturer to regularly produce special production runs of the obsolete batteries.\n\nThe UK's Royal Observer Corps initially used the RSM No. 2 as its prime radiation detector until it was replaced by the specially-designed \"Fixed Survey Meter\", which used the same obsolete high voltage batteries as the RSM. The ROC retained the RSM No. 2 for use during external \"post-attack\" mobile monitoring surveys.\n\nIn 1982 the British PDRM82 was issued for civil defence. This model is lightweight, with an LCD display and a plastic case, and has all the electronics, including miniature Geiger tube (shielded against beta particles), on a single, EMP-hardened, PCB. It was designed by Plessey to use three standard 1.5 volt cells, and is microprocessor controlled with digital readout.\n\nFor use by the Royal Observer Corps, the instrument was also provided in the fixed version designated the PDRM82(F). The fixed version had an external coaxial socket mounted on its rear that accepted a cable from the above ground ionisation detector under a polycarbonate dome. For training purposes, timed simulated readings could be fed to the meter from an EPROM.\n\nThe 1958–1959 \"Quartz Fibre Dosimeter Chargers, No. 1 and 2\" were retained until the early 1990s, as they incorporate a simple, handle-driven generator and do not require batteries at all. A later British civil defence dosimeter charger was developed by R. A. Stephen Ltd and manufactured from 1967 to 1988, and uses a single 1.5 volt cell. It is similar to American dosimeter chargers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2093230", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093230", "title": "Old Delhi", "text": "Old Delhi\n\nOld Delhi or Purani Dilli is an area part of the greater city of Delhi, India. It was founded as a walled city named Shahjahanabad in 1639, when Shah Jahan (the Mughal emperor at the time) decided to shift the Mughal capital from Agra. The construction of the city was completed in 1648, and it remained the capital of the Mughal Empire until its fall in 1857, when the British Raj took over as paramount power in India.\nIt was once filled with mansions of nobles and members of the royal court, along with elegant mosques and gardens. Today, despite having become extremely crowded and inundated, it still serves as the symbolic heart of metropolitan Delhi. Only a few havelis are left and maintained. Old Delhi was once known for its Islamic architecture, Jama Masjid is one of the examples, standing tall in the midst of city. Old Delhi is also known for its street food and shopping locations.\n\nUpon the 2012 trifurcation of the Municipal Corporation of Delhi, Old Delhi became administered by the North Delhi Municipal Corporation.\n\nThe site of \"Shahjahanabad\" is north of earlier settlements of Delhi. Its southern part overlaps some of the area that was settled by the Tughlaqs in the 14th century when it was the seat of Delhi Sultanate. The sultanates ruled from Delhi between 1206 and 1526, when the last was replaced by the Mughal dynasty. The five dynasties were the Mamluk dynasty (1206–90), the Khalji dynasty (1290–1320), the Tughlaq dynasty (1320–1414), the Sayyid dynasty (1414–51), Lodi dynasty (1451–1526) and the Suri dynasty (1540-1556)\n\nDelhi remained an important place for the Mughals, who built palaces and forts. Most importantly, Shah Jahan had the walled city built from 1638 to 1649, containing the Lal Qila and the Chandni Chowk. Delhi was one of the original twelve subahs (imperial Mughal provinces), renamed Shahjahanabad in 1648, bordering Awadh, Agra, Ajmer, Multan and Lahore subahs. Daryaganj had the original cantonment of Delhi, after 1803, where a native regiment of Delhi garrison was stationed, which was later shifted to Ridge area. East of Daryaganj was Raj ghat Gate of the walled city, opening at Raj Ghat on Yamuna River. The first wholesale market of Old Delhi opened as the hardware market in Chawri Bazaar in 1840, the next wholesale market was that of dry fruits, spices and herbs at Khari Baoli, opening in 1850. The \"Phool Mandi\" (Flower Market) of Daryaganj was established in 1869, and even today, despite serving a small geographical area, it is of great importance due to dense population.\n\nAfter the fall of the Mughal Empire post 1857 revolt, the British Raj shifted the capital of British controlled territories in India to a less volatile city, Calcutta in Bengal, where it remained until 1911. After the announcement of the change, the British developed Lutyens' Delhi (in modern New Delhi) just south-west of Shahjahanabad. At this point, the older city started being called \"Old\" Delhi, as New Delhi became the seat of a national government. It was formally inaugurated as such in 1931.\n\nIt is approximately shaped like a quarter cìrcle, with the Red Fort as the focal point. The old city was surrounded by a wall enclosing about , with 14 gates:\n\nThe surrounding walls, wide and tall, originally of mud, were replaced by red stone in 1657. In the Mughal period, the gates were kept locked at night.\nThe walls have now largely disappeared, but most of the gates are still present. The township of old Delhi is still identifiable in a satellite image because of the density of houses.\n\nThe Khooni Darwaza, south of Delhi Gate and just outside the walled city, was originally constructed by Sher Shah Suri.\n\nThe main street, now termed Chandni Chowk, runs from the Red Fort to Fatehpuri Masjid. Originally a canal ran through the middle of the street.\n\nNorth of the street, there is the mansion of Begum Samru, now called Bhagirath Palace.\nSouth of the street is Dariba Kalan, a dense residential area, beyond which is Jama Masjid. Daryaganj is a section that used to border the river at Rajghat and Zeenat-ul-Masjid.\n\nThe Urdu language emerged from the Urdu Bazaar section of Old Delhi. The Din Dunia magazine and various other Urdu publications are the reason for this language staying alive.\n\nIts main arteries are\n\nOld Delhi is approximately bounded by these modern roads:\n\nIn 1876, Carr Stephen described the city as follows:\n\nOf the two streets described by François Bernier, the longer extended from the Lahore Gate of the city to the Lahore Gate of the citadel, and the other from the Delhi Gate of the city to the Lahore Gate of the fort. Both these streets were divided into several sections, each of which was known by a different name.\n\nThe section between the Lahore Gate of the fort and the entrance of the street called the Dariba, known as the \"Khuni Darwazah\", was called the Urdu or the Military Bazaar; owing, very probably, to the circumstances of a portion of the local garrison having been once quartered about the place. Between the Khuni Darwazah and the present Kotwali, or the Head Police Station of the city, the street has the name of \"Phul ka Mandi\" or the flower market. The houses in front of the Kotwali were built at a short distance from the line of the rest of the houses in the street, to form a square.\n\nBetween the Kotwali and the gate known as the Taraiah, was the Jauhari or the Jewellers' Bazaar; between the Taraiah and the neighborhood is known as \"Asharfi ka Katra\", was, par excellence, the Chandni Chowk. There was a tank in the center of the Chowk the site of which is now occupied by the Municipal Clock Tower, and beyond this to the Fatehpuri Masjid was the Fatehpuri Bazaar. The houses around Chandni Chowk were of the same height, and were ornamented with arched doors and painted verandahs. To the north and south of the square, there were two gate-ways, the former leading to the Sarai of Jehan Ara Begum, and the latter to one of the most thickly populated quarters of the city. Round the tank, the ground was covered with vegetable, fruit, and sweetmeat stalls. Over time the whole of this long street came to be known as the Chandni Chauk.\n\nThis grand street was laid out by Jahanara Begum, daughter of Shah Jahan. From the Lahore Gate of the fort to the end of the Chandni Chauk the street was about 40 yards wide and 1,520 yards long. Through the center of this street ran the canal of 'Ali Mardan, shaded on both sides by trees. On the eastern end of the Chandni Chauk stands the Lahore Gate of the Fort, and on the opposite end the handsome mosque of Fatehpuri Begam.\n\nThe clock tower no longer exists, although the location is still called Ghantaghar. The Sarai of Jehan Ara Begum has been replaced by the city hall. The kotwal is now adjacent to Gurdwara Sis Ganj Sahib.\n\nThe engraving accompanying Letitia Elizabeth Landon's poem \"The City of Delhi\", appears to show the Jama Masjid with an elephant on the open ground before it. She associates the city's past glories with tales of enchantment, namely James Ridley's \"The Tales of the Genii\" (Sir Charles Mansell).\n\nMany of the historical attractions are in the Chandni Chowk area and the Red Fort. In addition, Old Delhi also has:\n\nSome of the historical mansions include:\n\nOld Delhi is well known for its cuisine. Old Delhi is the seat of the Mughal Empire for over two centuries has come to the modern hub of Mughlai cuisine. Karim's, a restaurant described as the city's most famous culinary destination, is near the Jama Masjid. The Gali Paranthe Wali and Ghantewala halwai are also situated here. Chawri Bazaar is one of the oldest markets in Delhi, dating back to the 17th century and was before known as a hardware market, but is known nowadays for its wholesale paper products.\n\nOld Delhi is also known for its street food. Chandni Chowk and Chawri Bazaar areas have many street joints that sell spicy chaat (tangy and spicy snacks).\n\nOld Delhi has certain identifiable landmarks of food. These include:\n\nPandit Gaya Prasad shifted from Agra to Delhi in 1876, in search of a better life. In Delhi, he set up a single shop business selling hot paranthas. The product gained popularity to an extent where he has required the aid of his family members for help in the production. Eventually, Paranthe wali Gali, the lane in which the original shop was came to house 16 of them. It is now run by the families of Pandit Gaya Prasad and his relatives. The sixth-generation continues to run the four of the sixteen original shops that remain.\n\nHaving been in the business of catering to Mughal Emperors, the family that runs it was displaced following the Revolt of 1857. In 1911, Haji Karimuddin moved back to Delhi with inspiration to open a Dhaba to cater to people coming to witness the coronation from all across the country. It was in 1913 that he established the Karim Hotel in Gali Kababian, Jama Masjid. Karim's exists here today to cater to the wants of people from all over the country and the world, being a major tourist attraction.\n\nNihari is a traditional meat stew that is slowly cooked to preserve its taste and the tenderness of its ingredients. Kallu Nihariwalla is a shop in Old Delhi that has served the dish exclusively since it was opened by the late Mohammed Rafiquddin (better known as Kallu Mian) in 1990. The shop, which is well known in the area, has served millions of portions.\n\nHarnarain Gokalchand was a pickle and murabba shop that was originally established in Khari Baoli by the name Harnarain Gopinath in 1857. It is often considered to be one of India's first commercially available pickle brands and was at the time India's largest food preservers. Their pickles and sharbat have been a household delicacy for over a century and a half, and have even served Jawaharlal Nehru and Indira Gandhi. Having started from a small shop in Khari Baoli, Old Delhi, it has now become a global brand that goes by the name Harnarains International.\n\nCharacterised by a codd-neck bottle, Banta is a drink that has survived in Old Delhi since 1872. The glass bottle in which this comes has a marble stopper, which is pushed into the bulbous neck of the bottle to unseal it. Engineer Hiram Codd patented the design of the bottle in 1872 in London to effectively seal fizzy drinks.\n\nThe Banta bottles even contributed to the Indian National movement. This was so as protestors and rioters would often use these bottles as improvised cannons by adding calcium hydroxide to the mix. Thus, the bottles were banned in many cities across the country at some point before 1947.\n\nLocated on Church Mission Road in the busy Fatehpuri Market of Old Delhi, Giani di Hatti was started by Giani Gurcharan Singh in 1951. Following partition, Giani Gurcharan Singh migrated from Layalpur, now in Pakistan, to Delhi. He came while leaving an eatery there to start one here.\n\nArriving with his recipe for iced rabdi falooda, large crowds still flock to the shop to get a taste of that unique flavor. Apart from this, the shop also sells various fruit juices and an assortment of main dishes, not to mention over 50 flavors of ice cream.\n\nChange in times can be recorded just by studying this shop as the same rabri falooda that was sold for 4 annas in 1951 is today sold for 80 Rupees.\n\nThe third generation of the family looks after the establishment now, which remains popular as ever, with visitors coming all the way to the market just to eat here.it's a grest place.\n\nOld Delhi has markets running through its streets. The area is vast and multiple products are being sold. Most of them are wholesale sellers and have been selling their products for many years. One such business is Gulab Singh Johrimal was established in Dariba Kalan in 1816 mainly as an attar (perfume) manufacturing business. Since then they have diversified into compounding, incense and toilet soap manufacture. Their retail outlet in Chandni Chowk was started later on. Another such shop is Harnarains manufacturers of pickles and preserves, located in Khari Baoli. Under operation since 1944, it is one of the older shops currently located in Old Delhi. Some migrants sell products like clothes, fruits etc. The sellers of one product often form an association to serve their interests and negotiate with the local government and other official bodies. The Old Delhi area and its markets are governed by the Municipal Corporation of Delhi (MCD).\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2093233", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093233", "title": "Noccalula Falls Park", "text": "Noccalula Falls Park\n\nNoccalula Falls Park is a 250-acre (101-ha) public park located in Gadsden, Alabama, United States.\n\nThe main feature of the park is a 90-foot (27-m) waterfall with a trail winding through Black Creek Gorge at its base past caves, an aboriginal fort, an abandoned dam, pioneer homestead, and Civil War carvings. The park also features a petting zoo, mini-golf course, the Gilliland-Reese Covered Bridge (built 1899) and a replica 1863 C. P. Huntington train ride. \n\nNoccalula Falls Park was listed on the Alabama Register of Landmarks and Heritage on May 12, 1976. It was rated in 2017 as the best campsite in Alabama in a 50-state survey conducted by Msn.com.\n\nThe falls drop itself has been run successfully in whitewater kayaks on multiple occasions, beginning in late November 2011 when three expert kayakers ran the drop. The water level was unusually high, permitting a deep enough pool to form at the base of the falls. Local law enforcement, in defiance of federal law that grants access to navigable waterways, has since issued citations to paddlers for running the falls.\n\nThe Noccalula Falls Botanical Gardens displays over 25,000 azaleas.\n\nMost of the park is on land once owned by R. A. Mitchell, a former mayor of Gadsden, who bought 169 acres in 1909 and intended it to become a city park. His daughter Sadie Mitchell Elmore inherited it and offered it to the city for $50,000 in 1940; after an election approving the purchase, the city finally bought the land in 1946 for $70,000, and additional acreage in 1959. Improvements started in 1950. R. A. Mitchell Elementary School is located across the street from the falls.\n\nIn the second half of the 19th century, the Gadsden Land and Improvement Company operated a tavern and dance hall in a cave behind the waterfall; attempting to increase the flat area inside using dynamite led to a cave-in. An inscription, \"FAXON 1859\", remains visible.\n\nAbove Noccalula Falls is a nine-foot-tall bronze statue of a young Cherokee woman, Noccalula, who, according to local legends, plunged to her death after being ordered by her father to marry a man she did not love. The legend is very similar to Wisconsin's Winona story as well as events from James Fenimore Cooper's \"The Last of the Mohicans\". The statue is the work of Suzanne Silvercruys and was dedicated in September 1969; it was paid for by a fund-raising drive by the Gadsden Woman's Club that included school children collecting pennies.\n\nAlthough no peer-reviewed historic journals have evaluated the veracity of the legend, at least one independent researcher has published evidence suggesting that the story is apocryphal.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2093241", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093241", "title": "Seth Holt", "text": "Seth Holt\n\nSeth Holt (1923, Palestine – 14 February 1971, London) was a British film director, producer and editor. His films are characterized by their tense atmosphere and suspense, as well as their striking visual style. In the 1960s, \"Movie\" magazine championed Holt as one of the finest talents working in the British film industry, although his output was notably sparse.\n\nHolt was educated at Blackheath School in London. He originally trained as an actor, and spent a term at RADA in 1940 before acting in repertory in Liverpool and Bideford in Devon working with Paul Scofield at the latter venue. His sister, Joan Holt, was married to film director Robert Hamer from the mid-1930a to the mid-1950s.\n\nIn 1942 he joined a documentary film company, Strand, as assistant editor. He worked at Ealing Studios from 1943, at the recommendation of Hamer. He was an editing assistant on films such as \"Champagne Charlie\" (1944), \"The Return of the Vikings\" (1944), \"Dead of Night\" (1945), \"The Captive Heart\" (1946), \"Hue and Cry\" (1947), \"Frieda\" (1947), \"Scott of the Antarctic\" (1948), \"Kind Hearts and Coronets\" (1949) and \"Passport to Pimlico\" (1949).\n\nHolt received his first credit as editor on \"The Spider and the Fly\" (1949), made for Mayflower Pictures by Robert Hamer.\n\nPromoted to editor at Ealing, he cut six films for the studio: \"Dance Hall\" (1950) and \"The Lavender Hill Mob\" (1951), directed by Charles Crichton, \"His Excellency\" (1952) for Hamer, \"Mandy\" (1952) for Alexander Mackendrick, \"The Titfield Thunderbolt\" (1953) and \"The Love Lottery\" (1954) for Crichton.\n\nIn November 1954, Holt was promoted to producer at Ealing. He worked on \"Touch and Go\" (1955), \"The Ladykillers\" (1955) with Mackendrick and \"The Man in the Sky\" (1957) for Crichton.\n\nHolt graduated to direction with Ealing's penultimate production, \"Nowhere to Go\" (1958), which he intended to be \"the least Ealing film ever made\", co-writing the script with Kenneth Tynan who had appointed as an Ealing script editor.\n\nAfter Ealing, Holt returned to editing on \"The Battle of the Sexes\" (1959) and wrote the script for a short film, \"Jessy\" (also 1959). In the Spring 1959 issue of \"Sight & Sound\", he indicated a wish to make \"Gratz\" based on a book by J.P. Donleavy but that he also just wanted to practice his craft.\n\nHolt was reportedly responsible for saving \"Saturday Night and Sunday Morning\" (1960) and \"The Entertainer\" (1960), his last editing credits. Also in this period, he directed episodes of the \"Danger Man\" television series for its initial run which were broadcast in 1960 and 1961.\n\nHis second feature as director was \"Taste of Fear\" (US: \"Scream of Fear\", 1961) for Hammer Films, a successful thriller written by Jimmy Sangster and produced by Michael Carreras.\n\nIt was followed by \"Station Six-Sahara\" (1962), a British-German film shot on location in Libya. British film critic Dilys Powell described it as \"true cinema\". He did episodes of \"Espionage\".\n\nHolt returned to Hammer to make \"The Nanny\" (1965), based on a script by Sangster and starring Bette Davis. It was a huge success and received strong reviews. Pauline Kael called Holt's direction \"excellent\". Bette Davis, however, once called Holt \"the most ruthless director I've ever worked with outside of William Wyler\".\n\nHolt was contracted to make \"\" (1965) in Italy with Gilbert Roland. However filming was abandoned after the producer saw the footage and Holt was fired. The film was later reactivated with another director, Mario Bava. By the mid-1960s, he was involved in developing the script for what became \"if...\". Holt was initially to direct \"Crusaders\", the project which became \"if...\", but his health was in such crisis that he passed the project to Lindsay Anderson, who extensively reworked the script with David Sherwin.\n\nHolt directed episodes of \"Court Martial\" then made a James Bond-style thriller \"Danger Route\" (1967). Holt was reportedly ill during filming.\n\nHolt started directing a film about Monsieur Lecoq with Julie Newmar and Zero Mostel but it too was abandoned. He was the executive producer on Adrian Walker's documentary \"Barbed Water\" (1968) which is about the whalers of Faial in the Azores.</ref>\n\nIn 1970 the National Film Theatre screened a season of his films.\n\nHammer Films hired Holt to direct \"Blood from the Mummy's Tomb\" (1971). \"I haven't been directing because I haven't been offered anything to direct,\" he said at the time. he said he had been developing scripts about the anarchist Bakunin as well as an adaptation of \"Lady Into a Fox\".\n\nHe died on the film's set at Elstree Studios during production from a heart attack five weeks into the six-week shoot, collapsing with cast member Aubrey Morris preventing him from falling. His death is believed to have been alcohol related.\n\nTCM's Ben Mankiewicz says it received better reviews than Hammer's other Mummy movies, which suffered from \"The curse of the Mummy Movie,\" and he gave credit to Holt for the improvement. \"He took the wrappings off.\"\n\nAccording to one obituary his \"unfulfilled career was an indictment of the British film industry\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2093243", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093243", "title": "Ryan Alan Hade", "text": "Ryan Alan Hade\n\nRyan Alan Hade (\"c.\" 1982 – June 9, 2005) was an American sexual assault victim from Tacoma, Washington. On May 20, 1989, he was raped, mutilated, stabbed and left for dead in a vacant lot that was later turned into a Tacoma park named Ryan's Park. Earl Kenneth Shriner was convicted of the attack and sentenced to 131 years in prison. Shriner had a long history of sexual assault charges spanning 25 years. The case has been cited as one of the catalysts for new US laws allowing indefinite confinement of sex offenders. Hade, who survived the attack by Shriner, died in a vehicular accident.\n"}
{"id": "2093252", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093252", "title": "William Carpenter Lambert", "text": "William Carpenter Lambert\n\nWilliam C. (Bill) Lambert (August 18, 1894 – March 19, 1982) was an American fighter pilot who flew in World War I. He was probably the second-ranking American ace of World War I. He claimed 18 air-to-air victories, eight fewer than \"Ace of Aces\" Eddie Rickenbacker and was awarded the Distinguished Flying Cross.\n\nHe was born William Carpenter Lambert in Ironton, Ohio. He was the son of Mary and William G. Lambert. Lambert had his first airplane flight in a Wright biplane on 4 July 1910.\n\nIn 1914, Lambert quit his job as a chemist in Buffalo, New York, to go enlist in the Royal Regiment of Canadian Artillery. Finding no openings, he took a chemist's job with Canadian Explosives Limited until 1916. He joined the Royal Flying Corps in early 1917, and sailed for England after completion of his training, on 19 November 1917. He joined No. 24 Squadron RFC on 20 March 1918, flying the Royal Aircraft Factory SE.5a, where his teacher was top scoring irish-born ace George McElroy. Between April and August, scored 18 victories–one observation balloon and 11 aircraft destroyed (with two victories shared), and six driven down out of control (one of which was a shared victory).\n\nHe was awarded the Distinguished Flying Cross.\n\nSuffering from combat fatigue brought on by a bombing attack on his airfield, he was rotated back to England for medical leave on 20 August 1918 but the war ended before he recovered. One of his prized memorabilia was a piece of red canvas from von Richthofen's Fokker DR-1 triplane.\n\nAfter the war, Lambert did some barnstorming in the Ironton, Ohio area and worked as an engineer. He also was the inventor of a rather unusual \"pipe rest\" which allowed a smoking pipe to be rested upon the smoker's chin.\n\nLambert joined the U.S. Air Service and served with the Army Air Forces in World War II. He retired in 1954 as a lieutenant colonel in the U.S. Air Force.\n\nAfter World War, he was a frequent attendee at the RAF contingent's Battle of Britain celebration at Wright Patterson AF Base in Dayton, Ohio.\n\nLambert's wartime experiences were related in his 1973 memoir \"Combat Report\".\n\nHe died in 1982 aged 87. He and his wife are buried in the Woodland Cemetery, Ironton, Ohio, in a mausoleum that he designed.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2093254", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093254", "title": "Melon (chemistry)", "text": "Melon (chemistry)\n\nIn chemistry, melon is a compound of carbon, nitrogen, and hydrogen of still somewhat uncertain composition, consisting mostly of heptazine units linked and closed by amine groups and bridges (, , , etc.). It is a pale yellow solid, insoluble in most solvents.\n\nA careful 2001 study indicates the formula , that consists of ten imino-heptazine units connected into a linear chain by amino bridges; that is, . However, other researchers are still proposing different structures.\n\nMelon is the oldest known compound with the heptazine core, having been described in the early 19th century. It has been little studied until recently, when it has been recognized as a notable photocatalyst and as a possible precursor to carbon nitride.\n\nIn 1834 Liebig described the compounds that he named melamine, melam, and melon. \n\nThe compound received little attention for a long time, due to its insolubility. In 1937 Linus Pauling showed by x-ray crystallography that the structure of melon and related compounds contained fused triazine rings. \nIn 1939, C. E. Redemamm and other proposed a structure consisting of 2-amino-heptazine units connected by amine bridges through carbons 5 and 8. The structure was revised in 2001 by T.Komatsu who proposed a tautomeric structure.\n\nThe compound can be extracted from the solid residue of the thermal decomposition of ammonium thiocyanate at 400 °C. (The thermal decomposition of solid melem, on the other hand, yields a graphite-like C-N material.)\n\nAccording to Komatsu, a characterized form of melon consists of oligomers that can be described as condensations of 10 units of melem tautomer with loss of ammonia . In this structure 2-imino-heptazine units are connected by amino bridges, from carbon 8 of one unit to nitrogen 4 of the next unit. X-ray diffraction data and other evidence indicate that the oligomer is planar, and he triangular heptazine cores have alternating orientations.\n\nThe crystal structure of melon is orthorhombic, with estimated lattice constants a = 739.6 pm, b = 2092.4 pm and c= 1295.4 pm.\n\nHeated to 700 °C, melon converts to a polymer of high molecular weight, consisting of longer chains with the same motif.\n\nMelon can be converted to 2,5,8-trichloroheptazine, a useful reagent for synthesis or heptazine derivatives.\n\nIn 2009, Xinchen Wang and others observed that melon acts as a catalyst for the splitting of water into hydrogen and oxygen, or converting back into fuel, using energy from sunlight. It was the first metal-free photocatalyst, and it was seen to enjoy a number of advantages over previous compounds, including low cost of material, simple synthesis, negligible toxicity, exceptional chemical and thermal stability. The downside is its modest efficiency, which however seems amenable to improvement by doping or nanostructuring.\n\nAnother wave of interest for melon happened in the 1990s, when theoretical computations suggested that β- — a hypothetical carbon nitride compound structurally analogous to β- —might be harder than diamond. Melon seemed to be agood precursor for anoter form of the material, \"graphitic\" carbon nitride or g-.\n\n"}
{"id": "2093255", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093255", "title": "Clemente Soto Vélez", "text": "Clemente Soto Vélez\n\nClemente Soto Vélez (1905 – April 15, 1993) was a Puerto Rican nationalist, poet, journalist and activist who mentored many generations of artists in Puerto Rico and New York City. Upon his death in 1993, he left a rich legacy that contributed to the cultural, social and economic life of Puerto Ricans in New York and Latinos everywhere.\n\nSoto Vélez was born in Lares, Puerto Rico a town known for \"El Grito de Lares\" of 1868, a rebellion against Spanish colonial rule. His parents died when he was seven years old and he went to live with his godfather who raised him. He received his primary education in Lares and later studied painting in the City of Arecibo under the guidance of Ildefonso Ruiz Vélez. In 1918, he moved to San Juan, the capital of Puerto Rico and lived with his sister. In San Juan, Soto Vélez studied electrical engineering and business administration at the Ramírez Commercial School. There he also met and befriended poets such as Alfredo Margenat (father of Hugo Margenat) and Pedro Carrasquillo. In 1928, Soto Vélez worked as a journalist for the newspaper \"El Tiempo\", where he published many of his works. He was dismissed from \"El Tiempo\" after he wrote an article criticizing the injustices committed against the working class by the American-controlled sugar industry in Puerto Rico.\n\nIn 1928, Soto Vélez together with Margenat, Carrasquillo and joined by poets Graciany Miranda Archilla and together with Fernando González Alberti, Luis Hernández Aquino, Samuel Lugo, Juan Calderón Escobar and Antonio Cruz Nieves founded the group \"El Atalaya de los Dioses\" which turned into the literary movement known as \"Atalayismo.\" The \"El Grupo Atalaya\" movement sought to connect the poetic/literary world with political action and most of its members, including Soto Vélez, became involved with the Puerto Rican Nationalist Party.\n\nSoto Vélez became a militant member of the Nationalist Party which sought Puerto Rico's independence from U.S. colonial rule and served as Party organizer in the city of Caguas. Soto Vélez also contributed to \"El Nacionalista\", the political news organ of the Nationalist Party. He took part in an attempt to take over the capital building in San Juan in 1932, and in 1934 was arrested and jailed for helping to instigate and participating in a sugar workers' strike.\n\nIn 1935, four Nationalists were killed by the police under the command of Colonel E. Francis Riggs. The incident became known as the Río Piedras massacre. The following year in 1936, two members of the Cadets of the Republic, the Nationalist youth organization, Hirám Rosado and Elías Beauchamp assassinated Colonel Riggs. They were arrested and executed, without a trial, at police headquarters in San Juan.\n\nOn April 3, 1936, a Federal Grand Jury submitted accusations against Soto Vélez, Pedro Albizu Campos, Juan Antonio Corretjer, Luis F. Velázquez and the following members of the Cadets of the Republic: Erasmo Velázquez, Julio H. Velázquez, Rafael Ortiz Pacheco, Juan Gallardo Santiago, and Pablo Rosado Ortiz. They were charged with sedition and other violations of Title 18 of the United States Code. Title 18 of the United States Code is the criminal and penal code of the federal government of the United States. It deals with federal crimes and criminal procedure. As evidence, the prosecution referred to the creation, organization and the activities of the cadets, which the government made reference to as the \"Liberating Army of Puerto Rico\". The government prosecutors stated that the military tactics which the Cadets were taught was for the sole purpose of overthrowing the Government of the U.S. A jury composed of seven Puerto Ricans and five Americans ended with a hung jury. Judge Robert A. Cooper called for a new jury, this time composed of ten Americans and two Puerto Ricans, and a guilty verdict was reached.\n\nSoto Vélez was sentenced to seven years in prison which he served at the United States Federal Penitentiary at Atlanta, Georgia. In 1937, while in prison, his friends published his first book, Escalio, a philosophical essay. In 1940, he was pardoned and returned to Puerto Rico only to be arrested once more for violating the conditions of his release. He was sent to prison at Lewisburg, Pennsylvania where he met Earl Browder, Secretary General of the Communist Party of the U.S.A. In 1942, after serving two years in prison, Soto Vélez was released and not allowed to return to Puerto Rico.\n\nSoto Vélez went to live in New York City and in 1943, joined the Communist Party. He was involved with Vito Marcantonio's political campaigns and the American Labor Party. He worked for the Spanish Grocer's Association, Inc., and later founded Puerto Rican Merchants Association, Inc. which he directed through the 1970s. Among the cultural organizations which he founded were the \"Club Cultural del Bronx\" (Bronx Cultural Club) and Casa Borinquen. He also served as the president of the Círculo de Escritores y Poetas Iberoamericanos (Circle of Ibero American Poets and Writers) and was a member of the Instituto de Puerto Rico en Nueva York (Puerto Rican Institute of New York). In 1950, he founded a magazine titled La Voz de Puerto Rico en Estados Unidos (The Voice of Puerto Rico in the United States).\n\nThe following is a selection of Soto Vélez's written work: \n\nSoto Vélez met Amanda Andrea Vélez, who became his wife. His wife was a political activist in Argentina and was a member of the Socialist Party of Argentina. She was involved in Soto Vélez's work and inspired him to write, while she promoted his work by organizing events on his behalf. In the 1980s, the couple moved to Puerto Rico. Soto Vélez died in Puerto Rico on April 15, 1993.\n\nIn 1995 on the Lower East Side of Manhattan (also known as \"Loisaida\"), author Edgardo Vega Yunqué and actor-director Nelson Landrieu founded the Clemente Soto Vélez Cultural and Educational Center (also known as the \"CSV\") to continue Clemente's legacy.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2093258", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093258", "title": "Megahertz myth", "text": "Megahertz myth\n\nThe megahertz myth, or in more recent cases the gigahertz myth, refers to the misconception of only using clock rate (for example measured in megahertz or gigahertz) to compare the performance of different microprocessors. While clock rates are a valid way of comparing the performance of different speeds of the same model and type of processor, other factors such as an amount of execution units, pipeline depth, cache hierarchy, branch prediction, and instruction sets can greatly affect the performance when considering different processors. For example, one processor may take two clock cycles to add two numbers and another clock cycle to multiply by a third number, whereas another processor may do the same calculation in two clock cycles. Comparisons between different types of processors are difficult because performance varies depending on the type of task. A benchmark is a more thorough way of measuring and comparing computer performance.\n\nThe myth started around 1984 when comparing the Apple II with the IBM PC. The argument was that the PC was five times faster than the Apple II, as its Intel 8088 processor had a clock speed roughly 4.7 times the clock speed of the MOS Technology 6502 used in the Apple. However, what really matters is not how finely divided a machine's instructions are, but how long it takes to complete a given task. Consider the LDA # (Load Accumulator Immediate) instruction. On a 6502 that instruction requires two clock cycles, or 2 μs at 1 MHz. Although the 4.77 MHz 8088's clock cycles are shorter, the LDA # needs at least 4 of them, so it takes 4 / 4.77 MHz = 0.84 μs at least. So, at best, that instruction runs only a little more than 2 times as fast on the original IBM PC than on the Apple II.\n\nThe x86 CISC based CPU architecture which Intel introduced in 1978 was used as the standard for the DOS based IBM PC, and developments of it still continue to dominate the Microsoft Windows market. An IBM RISC based architecture was used for the PowerPC CPU which was released in 1992. In 1994 Apple Computer introduced Macintosh computers using these PowerPC CPUs. Initially this architecture met hopes for performance, and different ranges of PowerPC CPUs were developed, often delivering different performances at the same clock rate. Similarly, at this time the Intel 80486 was selling alongside the Pentium which delivered almost twice the performance of the 80486 at the same clock rate.\n\nThe myth arose because the clock rate was commonly taken as a simple measure of processor performance, and was promoted in advertising and by enthusiasts without taking into account other factors. The term came into use in the context of comparing PowerPC-based Apple Macintosh computers with Intel-based PCs. Marketing based on the myth led to the clock rate being given higher priority than actual performance, and led to AMD introducing model numbers giving a notional clock rate based on comparative performance to overcome a perceived deficiency in their actual clock rate.\n\nWith the advent of multithreading and multicore processors, the myth has stirred up more misconceptions regarding the measurement of performance in multi-core processors. Many people believe that a quad-core processor running at 3 GHz would result in an overall performance of 12 GHz worth of CPU. Others may say that the overall performance is in fact 3 GHz, with each core running at 750 MHz. Both of these ideas are incorrect. Often the same user making these comparisons will be comparing multiple brands of CPU, which will not do the same amount of work per cycle in any case. While micro-architecture traits such as pipeline depth play the same role in performance, the design of parallel processing brings other factor into the picture: software efficiency.\n\nIt is true that a poorly written program will run poorly on even a single-core system, but even a well written program that was designed in a linear fashion, will often (if not always) perform better on a single-core system than a multi-core one when run by itself. A system's overall performance cannot be judged by simply comparing the amount of processor cores and clock rates, the software running on the system is also a major factor of observed speed. The myth of the importance of clock rate has confused many people as to how they judge the speed of a computer system.\n\nComparisons between PowerPC and Pentium had become a staple of Apple presentations. At the New York City Macworld Expo \"Keynote\" on July 18, 2001, Steve Jobs described an 867 MHz G4 as completing a task in 45 seconds while a 1.7 GHz Pentium 4 took 82 seconds for the same task, saying that \"the name that we've given it is the megahertz myth\". He then introduced senior hardware VP Jon Rubinstein who gave a tutorial describing how shorter pipelines gave better performance at half the clock rate. The online cartoon Joy of Tech subsequently presented a series of cartoons inspired by Rubinstein's tutorial.\n\nFrom approximately 1995 to 2005, Intel advertised its Pentium mainstream processors primarily on the basis of clock speed alone, in comparison to competitor products such as from AMD. Press articles had predicted that computer processors may eventually run as fast as 10 to 20 gigahertz in the next several decades.\n\nThis continued up until about 2005, when the Pentium Extreme Edition was reaching thermal dissipation limits running at speeds of nearly 4 gigahertz. The processor could not go faster without requiring complex changes to the cooling design, such as microfluidic cooling channels embedded within the chip itself to remove heat rapidly.\n\nThis was followed by the introduction of the Core 2 desktop processor in 2006, which was a major change from previous Intel desktop processors, allowing nearly a 50% decrease in processor clock while retaining the same performance.\n\nCore 2 had its beginnings in the Pentium M mobile processor, where energy efficiency was more important than raw power, and initially offered power-saving options not available in the Pentium 4 and Pentium D.\n\nIn the succeeding years after the demise of the NetBurst microarchitecure and its 3+ GHz CPUs, microprocessor clock speeds kept slowly increasing after initially dropping by about 1 GHz. Several years' advances in manufacturing processes and power management (specifically, the ability to set clock speeds on a per-core basis) allowed for clock speeds as high or higher than the old NetBurst Pentium 4s and Pentium Ds but with much higher efficiency and performance. As of 2018, many Intel microprocessors are able to exceed a base clock speed of 4 GHz (Intel Core i7-7700K and i3-7350K have a base clock speed of 4.20 GHz, for example). \n\nIn 2011, AMD was first able to break the 4 GHz barrier for x86 microprocessors with the debut of the initial Bulldozer based AMD FX CPUs. In June 2013, AMD released the FX-9590 which can reach speeds of up to 5.0 GHz, but similar issues with power usage and heat output have returned.\n\nNeither Intel nor AMD produced the first microprocessor across the industry to break the 4 GHz and 5 GHz barriers. The IBM z10 achieved 4.4 GHz in 2008, and the IBM z196 achieved 5.2 GHz in 2010, followed by the z12 achieving 5.5 GHz in Autumn 2012.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2093269", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093269", "title": "Manchester Transit Authority", "text": "Manchester Transit Authority\n\nThe Manchester Transit Authority, or MTA, is a public transportation provider in Manchester, New Hampshire, United States. It was founded in 1973 and operates 13 regular bus routes through the city, including a free downtown circulator, which was rebranded as the Green DASH (Downtown Area Shuttle) in 2011. In general, service is hourly, with more frequent service along corridors served by multiple routes, and especially on the Green DASH.\n\nIt is a hub and spoke system that meets downtown at Veterans Park (labeled as Center of NH on southbound departing lines) with one line departing from the nearby Canal Street Transportation Center.\n\nService is generally limited to the city of Manchester, with a few lines extending into the neighboring towns of Bedford, Goffstown, Hooksett and Londonderry, and two express lines running to Concord and Nashua. Since July 2013, the MTA has offered weekday service between Concord and Manchester-Boston Regional Airport, with most trips also stopping at the Center of NH hub in downtown Manchester, from 3:30 a.m. until 12:45 a.m. The neighboring suburb of Bedford contributed funding to the MTA until 2010, and service coverage was significantly reduced within the town the following year. As of 2009, 97% of Manchester residents lived within one-quarter mile of an MTA bus line.\n\nThe MTA is the public successor to Manchester's private bus service, which reached a peak annual ridership of 15.1 million in 1948, and the Manchester Street Railway that existed until 1940. The MTA was created by the City in May 1973, following requests by the private Manchester Transit bus provider for public subsidies. As of 2005, the MTA served an average of 1,905 riders each weekday, though ridership has grown since that time despite budget cutbacks by the City and subsequent service cutbacks. Ridership in 2011 had increased 21% over 2004, growing from 382,979 to 462,109 total rides. Service peaked for the decade in 2009 with 531,961 rides before falling as a result of service cuts in 2010 and recovering slightly in 2011. The general trend during the period, however, has been a growth in ridership. In recent years, the MTA has sought to expand its ridership with new routes, such as the Green DASH and Concord Express, that are aimed at riders who might otherwise choose to drive.\n\nIn addition to the 13 public transit routes, the MTA operates a StepSaver paratransit service, two free Shopper Shuttle routes that operate three days a week, and pupil transportation for the Manchester School District.\n\nMost MTA buses originate at Veterans Park in downtown Manchester. This is indicated on timetables and maps as Veterans Park, Downtown Radisson (a hotel in the park), or Center of NH (a convention center inside the hotel).\n\nRoutes are organized into four zones. Zone 1 routes are standard fare local routes (routes 1 through 12), Zone 2 routes are intercity routes and require a day or month pass to ride (routes 21 and 22), Zone 3 routes are special excursions, and Zone 4 routes are free to ride.\n\n\nOriginally, the buses were wrapped with historical images of Manchester. In an effort to boost ridership and publicize the service, the downtown circulator was rebranded as the Green DASH in 2011, and the buses were given a new, green color scheme that no longer obscures the windows and clearly marks them as a free loop bus. The free service is funded through a combination of federal grants and parking revenue. This marks the second attempt by the MTA at offering free transit downtown, following a fourteen-block free-ride zone that began in 1974 but has since been discontinued. \n\n"}
{"id": "2093270", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093270", "title": "The Gorgon", "text": "The Gorgon\n\nThe Gorgon is a 1964 British horror film directed by Terence Fisher for Hammer Films. It stars Peter Cushing, Christopher Lee, Richard Pasco and Barbara Shelley.\n\nIn the old millhouse on the edge of the forest, Sacha Cass tells her artist boyfriend Bruno Heitz she is carrying his child. Wanting to stand up to his obligations, Bruno races off into the night to see Sacha’s father despite her pleas for him not to go. She races after him, but soon loses him in the dark forest. There amongst the dark shadows something catches her attention. She looks into the face of something hideous and screams. Raising her head once more she looks upon the horror and screams again before turning to solid stone. Suspicion immediately falls onto Bruno who is missing, but he is found hanged in the forest by a police search party. A biased court decides it is a case of murder and suicide. The villagers feeling robbed of any vengeance, attack Bruno’s father, Professor Jules Heitz. The local Police warn the Professor to leave the village, but he refuses to go until his son’s name is cleared. He seeks help from Doctor Namaroff, a brain specialist at the Vandorf Medical Institution. Heitz knows that a conspiracy of silence has been set up and that the villagers do not believe the true cause. Professor Heitz believes the murders are the result of something unhuman and hideous from Ancient Mythology. Its spirit haunts the Castle Borski - its name is Megeara, a Gorgon, a creature whose horrible face can turn human skin to stone. On hearing Hertz’s belief, Namaroff immediately terminates their discussion. Professor Heitz contacts his good friend Professor Meister of Leipzig University, who is also his son Paul’s tutor. Paul immediately leaves to see his father. That night, Professor Heitz is drawn to Borski Castle by a strange calling sound. There amongst the shadows he looks upon something horrible - the face of Megeara the Gorgon. He manages to stagger back to the millhouse and there whilst slowly turning to stone, outlines a letter to his son Paul telling him of the horror that haunts Vandorf. His final words ‘I am turning to stone...’ Paul arrives and learning the sad news of his father’s death goes to see Namaroff. He is rudely dismissed when he asks if there is any link with the supernatural his father wrote of in his dying letter. Paul does however gain sympathy from Professor Namaroff’s beautiful assistant Carla Hoffman who visits him at the old millhouse, and secretly reads the letter Professor Heitz had written. Later she recites what she can remember of the letter to Namaroff at the Institution. They are interrupted by Ratoff the warden who reports that Martha, a violent inmate, has escaped. Namaroff reveals to Carla that the spirit of Megeara the Gorgon does exist and occasionally takes over the body of an unfortunate human being. That night Paul is drawn outside the millhouse by a strange sound and there glimpses the horror of the Gorgon’s reflection in the garden pool. He wakes five days later in the Medical Institution, aged by ten years. Determined to destroy the creature, Paul returns to the millhouse. Namaroff has Carla followed by Ratoff. That night there is a full moon. Under the full moon, Paul visits the graveyard and exhumes his fathers body and discovers it is solid stone. Carla silently watches him from the shadows. Emerging from her hiding place, she confides to Paul that Namaroff is in love with her and she is terrified of him. Paul tells Carla that he will take her away with him when the horror is ended. But Carla fears it will be too late by then. Paul’s tutor Professor Meister arrives at the millhouse to see him. Meanwhile, at the Medical Institution, Namaroff removes the brain from Martha the dangerous inmate who died soon after recapture by Ratoff. Carla believed Martha to be the main suspect in the murders, but now she senses a far worse suspicion. Meister and Paul visit Inspector Kanof. They force him to tell them that Carla arrived in Vandorf as an amnesiac prior to the first murder. Meeting in secret at Castle Borski early next morning, Carla tells Paul that she will go away with him to safety - but it must be now. He refuses and she runs off. Paul runs after her and is attacked by a waiting Ratoff, but Meister scares him off. Meister tells Paul he believes that Carla becomes an amnesiac during the full moon. It is during that period that the spirit of Megeara enters her body. Paul agrees with Carla that to leave now is the best thing - but she must leave immediately and he will follow later when the mystery is solved. Later that day Paul cables Leipzig where Carla is supposed to have arrived by train, but there is no sign of her. That night he goes to Castle Borski as a full moon is rising. There midst the Castle ruins, Namaroff is waiting with a sword for the arrival of Carla. He attacks Paul and they fight. As the fight continues the Gorgon appears at the top of the Castle staircase. Paul is trapped as the creature advances on him and he sees her reflection in a mirror. Silently, Professor Meister approaches from behind clutching Namaroff’s sword. With a swift slash of the blade he beheads the creature. Slowly turning to stone, Paul looks upon the severed head of the Gorgon as its features change to that of his beloved Carla.\n\n\n\"The Gorgon\" was based on a story submitted to Hammer by their Canadian fan, J. Llewellyn Divine. Director John Gilling and producer Anthony Nelson Keys expanded on Divine's outline, developing it into a screenplay. For the role of the monster, former ballerina Prudence Hyman was recruited because the monster was supposed to float gracefully like a wraith.\n\n\"The Gorgon\" was distributed in the United Kingdom by Columbia Pictures/BLC Films on October 18, 1964 where it was supported by \"The Curse of the Mummy's Tomb\". It was released in the United States by Columbia Pictures on February 17, 1965 where it was also supported by \"The Curse of the Mummy's Tomb\".\n\n\"The Gorgon\" was released in the U.S. on Blu-ray by Mill Creek in March 2018 as a double feature along with the Hammer movie, The Two Faces of Dr. Jekyll. The title of the film is misspelled as “The Gorgan” on the spine.\n\n\"Variety\" wrote, \"Though written and directed on a leisurely note, 'The Gorgon' is a well-made, direct yarn that mainly gets its thrills through atmosphere. The period storyline is simple and predictable but John Gilling has turned out a well-rounded piece and Terence Fisher's direction is restrained enough to avoid any unintentional yocks.\" \"The Monthly Film Bulletin\" found that the monster's appearance was \"belated, vague and insufficiently spectacular. Still, it makes a change from vampires, and though the film has little genuine flair for atmosphere it is quite well acted by Richard Pasco and an appropriately blank-eyed, statuesque Barbara Shelley.\"\n\nOn Rotten Tomatoes, the film holds an approval rating of 67% based on , with a weighted average rating of 6/10.\n\n"}
{"id": "2093273", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093273", "title": "Harz Narrow Gauge Railways", "text": "Harz Narrow Gauge Railways\n\nThe Harz Narrow Gauge Railways (German: \"Harzer Schmalspurbahnen\" or HSB) is a railway company that operates a network in the Harz mountains, in central Germany (formerly East Germany). The company was formed after the Second World War as a merger of two earlier companies. It owns about 140 kilometres of track, connecting the principal towns of Wernigerode, Nordhausen and Quedlinburg and several smaller settlements in the area. Much of the network is steeply graded and picturesque, but its most popular destination is the Brocken, the highest mountain in the region. The company runs a significant number of its trains with steam haulage, mostly employing 1950s vintage 2-10-2 tank locomotives, hauling traditional open-platform bogie carriages. The company is mainly owned by the various local authorities whose territories it serves.\n\nThe present-day narrow gauge operator emerged as a result of the merger of two different railway companies that operated their own lines:\n\nIn 1887 the first narrow gauge line in the Harz, from Gernrode to Mägdesprung, was opened. It was owned by the Gernrode-Harzgerode Railway Company (\"Gernrode-Harzgeroder Eisenbahn-Gesellschaft\") or GHE. In the years that followed, the line was extended and the network enlarged. The GHE network included the railway lines from Gernrode to Harzgerode, Hasselfelde and Eisfelder Talmühle. Because the line followed a section of the valley of the Selke, a small river, it was also nicknamed the Selke Valley Railway (\"Selketalbahn\"). Another pet name was the Anhalt Harz Railway (\"Anhaltische Harzbahn\").\n\nIn 1896 a second railway company was entered into the commercial register that wanted to build a narrow gauge railway through the Harz. On 22 December 1898 the Nordhausen-Wernigerode Railway Company (\"Nordhausen-Wernigeroder Eisenbahn-Gesellschaft\") or NWE opened special services on the line from Wernigerode to the Brocken (the Brocken Railway). The so-called Trans-Harz Railway (\"Harzquerbahn\") from Wernigerode via Drei Annen Hohne to Nordhausen was fully opened to traffic on 27 March 1899.\n\nAfter the Second World War the entire network fell within the Soviet Zone of Occupation, later East Germany. The GHE and NWE were subordinated to the East German Deutsche Reichsbahn in on 1 April 1949.\n\nOn 1 February 1993 the private railway company \"Harzer Schmalspurbahnen GmbH (HSB)\" took over all stock, lines, staff, etc., from the Deutsche Reichsbahn and since then has acted as both the railway operating company (EVU) and railway infrastructure company (EIU). Shareholders in the HSB are the districts of Harz and Nordhausen, the communes along the railways, the town of Quedlinburg, the municipality of Tanne and the spa company of Braunlage. Its head office is in Wernigerode, where its workshops and locomotive depot are located. Today the HSB has the longest single network of narrow gauge railway in Germany, with a total length of 140.4 km (87 miles), 44 stations and halts.\n\nIts trains run daily to a timetable and it operates more than ten steam locomotives, seven diesel railbuses and three trams (on the Nordhausen Tramway). All the lines are worked by steam trains, only in the winter timetable does the Stiege–Eisfelder Talmühle section of the Selke Valley Railway have no regular steam services due to its relatively low workload at that time of year.\n\nThe best-known line is the Brocken Railway which is worked by steam locomotive-hauled trains to a daily scheduled timetable running from (Wernigerode –) via Drei Annen Hohne to the Brocken and back. Regional services between Nordhausen and Ilfeld, on the other hand were transferred to diesel railbuses and (since 1 May 2004) trams, apart from one steam train pair. \nIn addition the HSB still operates regular goods trains from \"Hartsteinwerk Unterberg\" (on the Selke Valley Railway) to \"Nordhausen Übergabebahnhof\" (on the Trans-Harz Railway) using diesel locomotives of Class 199.8 and piggy-backed standard-gauge wagons.\n\nOn 1 May 2004 a link line was opened in Nordhausen between the Nordhausen Tramway and the Trans-Harz Railway. Since then, the above-mentioned tramway between Nordhausen Hospital and the HSB halt of Ilfeld-Neanderklinik (\"Line 10\") has been worked by electric and hybrid vehicles of the Combino duo class. On the Trans-Harz Railway (which has no catenary), motive power is diesel-electric, the trams being equipped with an on-board diesel engine. As a result of the connecting track to the Nordhausen Tramway, the station of Nordhausen Nord, in particular, lost its significance. Apart from one pair of steam trains from Nordhausen and a few HSB railcars all trains since then have terminated at the tramway stop of \"Nordhausen Bahnhofsvorplatz\".\n\nOn 18 April 2005, work started on the extension of the Selke Valley Railway from Gernrode to Quedlinburg (length 8.5 km) after DB AG had closed this standard-gauge section and sold it to the HSB. First, the Gernrode terminus was converted into a through station. On 4 March 2006, the first narrow gauge train Quedlinburg station and, since 26 June 2006, there have been scheduled services by the Harz narrow gauge railways to Quedlinburg with at least two pairs of steam trains per day. In Quedlinburg the HSB stops at a platform with trains of the Harz-Elbe Express to Halberstadt.\n\nIn 2009, with the support of the state of Saxony-Anhalt, the standard-gauge steam engine no. 95 1027 was overhauled at the Meiningen Steam Locomotive Works. It was used on the HSB and is now running museum railway services on the Rübeland Railway.\n\nOn 30 November 2009 construction was started in Nordhausen on a new halt (\"Schurzfell\"). This halt is intended to further improve access to the railway network for the population of Nordhausen. Building work continued until shortly before Christmas 2009 and was mainly carried out during the overnight pause so as not to interfere with services. The new halt was opened in time for the summer timetable in 2010.\n\nIn 2009 Lower Saxony tried to co-finance a connection of the town of Braunlage to the HSB network using an accumulation of capital from the economic stimulus package, \"Konjunktur II\". (see also South Harz Railway). This initiative was shelved on 29 April 2010 due to the unacceptably high costs that were predicted.\n\nThe network is notable for its significant use of steam locomotives. This is primarily as a result of lack of investment during the period the line was in Deutsche Reichsbahn ownership, between 1945 and 1993. The mainstay of the steam locomotive fleet is a fleet of 17 2-10-2 tank locomotives, built during the 1950s (apart from the prototype), although several older types do remain, including four 0-4-4-0 T mallet compound articulated locomotives. The steam locomotives are assisted by a fleet of diesel railcars which operate to a greater or lesser degree on most lines to supplement the steam services for the benefit of the local population.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2093274", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093274", "title": "John Sherman (disambiguation)", "text": "John Sherman (disambiguation)\n\nJohn Sherman (1823–1900) was a U.S. Representative and U.S. Senator from Ohio.\n\nJohn Sherman may also refer to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2093276", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093276", "title": "John Geering", "text": "John Geering\n\nJohn Keith Geering (9 March 1941 – 13 August 1999) was a British cartoonist with a distinctive, occasionally flamboyant style, most famous for his work for DC Thomson comics including \"Sparky\", \"The Topper\", \"Cracker\", \"Plug\", \"Nutty\", \"The Beano\" and \"The Dandy\".\n\nGeering's strips included:\n\n\nHe worked at Cosgrove Hall animation studios in Manchester on \"Danger Mouse\", \"Count Duckula\", and the 1989 film \"The BFG\" based on the 1982 novel of the same name by Roald Dahl.\n\nGeering's last new strip was Dean's Dino, which he drew for \"The Beano\" shortly before his death. He also produced topical and political satire cartoons for British newspapers.\n\nHe had lived in the village of Comberbach with his wife for many years before his death.\n\nHe died in Warrington, aged 58.\n\n"}
{"id": "2093278", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093278", "title": "Montgomery Riverwalk Stadium", "text": "Montgomery Riverwalk Stadium\n\nMontgomery Riverwalk Stadium is the home of the Montgomery Biscuits of the Southern League. The minor league baseball ballpark opened in Montgomery, Alabama in 2004. Located in downtown Montgomery, the stadium can host up to 7,000 people a night.\n\nRiverwalk Stadium is a converted century-old train shed. The actual train station is located two blocks away from the field. The abandoned train shed is what is on the exterior of the first base side of the park. Riverwalk Stadium is located near the Alabama River. Montgomery offers a riverfront area that is easily accessible from Riverwalk Stadium with a children's splash pad. There is also an amphitheater located behind the field.\n\nThe stadium offers 20 luxury suites. Six of the suites are built into the old train terminal along the first-base line and the remaining 14 extend along the third base line. Montgomery Riverwalk Stadium offers picnic areas along the third-base line and in left-center field. The picnic area in left-center field can accommodate up to 4,000 fans. The stadium also has a full bar, called \"The Club Car Bar\", which is located down the first base line and a children's playground area located down the third base line. The stadium scoreboard is a video board with a LED screen capable of instant replay. The stadium also has a gift shop called \"The Biscuit Basket\" located under the grandstands. There is a notched curve in deep right field over which the American flag is flown.\n\nBetween 2004 and 2007, Riverwalk Stadium hosted the NCAA Division II baseball championship tournament; the tournament moved to Riverwalk Stadium from nearby Paterson Field, where it had been held since 1985. The tournament moved to Sauget, Illinois, in 2008.\n\nVictor Mateo threw the stadium's first no-hitter on August 24, 2013, when he allowed just one baserunner on a walk (the runner was erased in a double play later in the inning) in the Biscuits' 3–0 defeat of the Jacksonville Suns.\n\n"}
{"id": "2093281", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093281", "title": "Trypillia", "text": "Trypillia\n\nTrypillia (, , \"Tripolye\") is a village in the Obukhiv Raion (district) of the Kiev Oblast in central Ukraine, with 2800 inhabitants (as of 1 January 2005). It lies about south from Kiev on the Dnieper.\n\nTrypillia is the site of an ancient mega-settlement dating to 4300–4000 BCE belonging to the Cucuteni-Trypillian culture. Settlements of this culture were as large as 200 hectares. This proto-city is just one of 2440 Cucuteni-Trypillia settlements discovered so far in Moldova and Ukraine. 194 (8%) of these settlements had an area of more than 10 hectares between 5000–2700 BCE and more than 29 settlements had an area in the range 100–450 Hectares.\n\nIt was near Trypillia that archaeologist Vikentiy Khvoyka discovered an extensive Neolithic site of the Cucuteni-Trypillian culture, one of the major Neolithic-Chalcolithic cultures of Eastern Europe. Khvoika reported his findings in 1897 to the 11th Congress of Archaeologists, marking the official date of the discovery of this culture.\n\nThe name \"Trypillia\" means \"three fields\" in the Slavic languages. It was first mentioned by Kievan chroniclers in connection with the Battle of the Stugna River in 1093. During the 12th century, Trypillia was a fortress which defended approaches towards Kiev from the steppe. One of its rulers was Mstislav Mstislavich. During the subsequent centuries, the town dwindled into insignificance. In 1919 it was the venue of the Trypillia Incident, in which Ukrainian forces under Danylo Terpylo massacred a unit of Bolsheviks.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2093284", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093284", "title": "Bell XP-77", "text": "Bell XP-77\n\nThe Bell XP-77 development was initiated by the United States Army Air Forces during World War II to produce a simplified \"lightweight\" fighter aircraft using non-strategic materials. Despite being innovative, the diminutive prototype proved tricky to handle and the project was canceled when the XP-77 did not deliver its projected performance.\n\nThe Tri-4 (Company designations, later changed to D-6 ) project with the Bell Aircraft Corporation was initiated in October 1941. Originally a design study to meet the USAAF specifications for a \"very light\" interceptor, the XP-77 was intended to be a small, light fighter much in the mold of the 1930s Thompson Trophy air racers.\n\nOn 16 May 1942, the USAAF recommended the construction and testing of 25 XP-77s. The aircraft featured a single-engine, low-wing monoplane with mainly wood construction, equipped with tricycle landing gear, a typical Bell feature that bestowed good ground handling. A bubble canopy also provided fair visibility except in the forward-downward direction due to the extended nose.\n\nWhile originally conceived using an air-cooled 500 hp Ranger XV-770-9 12-cylinder engine with a supercharger, the prototypes were delivered with the non-supercharged XV-770-7 engine due to engine development delays. With the anticipated delivery time of the original engine delayed for one and a half years, Bell proposed that seven XP-77s be built using the seven XV-770-7 engines then available. The planned armament was one Hispano 20 mm cannon firing through the propeller hub (much like the larger caliber 37 mm \"moteur-canon\" of the SPAD S.XII) and two 0.5 inch Browning machine guns, with the option of either a 300 lb bomb or 325 lb depth charge with the deletion of the cannon armament.\n\nThe mock-up inspection on 21–22 September 1942 produced some concerns from both the manufacturer and the USAAF inspection team. Weight had crept up beyond the 3,700 lb design limit but delays in the program were experienced when the company resorted to sub-contracting the wooden construction while the ongoing production at the Bell facilities did not allow for the XP-77 to take priority for research and development. Bell asked and received permission to reduce the production run of aircraft to two prototypes.\n\nThe XP-77 project continued to suffer numerous delays, many related to correction of the excess weight issues. A change in subcontractor for the wing assembly also caused headaches as the first subcontractor refused to release necessary parts. Concerns over structural integrity relating to the glue and its binding properties were also difficult to resolve. With the anticipation that contract costs would soon be exceeded, and no hope that the supercharged engine would become available, the USAAF would only continue the project as an experiment to evaluate the use of wooden construction and materials in combat aircraft. The first XP-77 flew 1 April 1944 at Wright Field but the flight tests revealed vibration problems due to directly mounting the engine to the airframe, without vibration isolation. The long nose and rear-mounted cockpit also inhibited visibility relative to operational aircraft of the time.\n\nThe XP-77 proved to be difficult to fly and despite flying without guns or armor, it did not come up to the expected performance estimates mainly because it was woefully underpowered. Further trials were conducted at the USAAF Proving Ground at Eglin Field with the second aircraft, which was destroyed on 2 October 1944 when it entered an inverted spin while attempting an Immelmann, and the pilot bailed out. All development was terminated in December 1944.\n\n"}
{"id": "2093285", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093285", "title": "Gospel Book (British Library, Royal MS 1. B. VII)", "text": "Gospel Book (British Library, Royal MS 1. B. VII)\n\nBritish Library, Royal MS 1. B. VII is an 8th-century Anglo-Saxon illuminated Gospel Book. It is closely related to the Lindisfarne Gospels, being either copied from it or from a common model. It is not as lavishly illuminated, and the decoration shows Merovingian influence. The manuscript contains the four Gospels in the Latin Vulgate translation, along with prefatory and explanatory matter. It was presented to Christ Church, Canterbury in the 920s by King Athelstan, who had recorded in a note in Old English (f.15v) that upon his accession to the throne in 925 he had freed one Eadelm and his family from slavery, the earliest recorded manumission in (post-Roman) England.\n\nThe codex has 155 vellum folios and measures 11.25 by 8.5 inches. The folios are gathered into quires of eight leaves each, with a few exceptions. The ninth gathering has only seven leaves, but does not have a loss of text that would indicate a missing leaf. The fourteenth quire had ten leaves and the final quire has only four. The sixteenth gathering has lost one folio. All but the second, sixth, and seventh gatherings have the first word of the next gathering (a catchword) at the bottom of the final page. This was done to ensure that the gatherings were placed in the proper order.\n\nThe text includes, in addition to the Gospels, the letter of Jerome to Pope Damasus (known by its first two words \"Novum opus\"), the prologue to Jerome's commentary on the Book of Matthew, the letter of Eusebius of Caesarea to Carpianus (\"Ammonius quidam\") in which Eusebius explains the use of his Canon Tables, prologues to each of the Gospels, tables of capitula for each of the Gospels, tables for each of the Gospels indicating the festivals at which portions of that Gospel should be read, and the Eusebian Canon tables.\n\nThe manuscript was written in England, perhaps in a Northumbrian monastery connected to Lindisfarne or Monkwearmouth-Jarrow, though \"the Frankish influence in the decoration and display script ... might equally suggest origins in Mercia\". The text is written in insular half-uncial in two columns. There are two or more hands found in the manuscript. Each chapter begins with a line of text written in red ink. There are markings for the Ammonian sections in the margins.\n\nThe manuscript was copied either from the Lindisfarne Gospels, or from a common source. The text was originally almost identical to that of the Lindisfarne, however in this manuscript many readings, that are otherwise peculiar to Lindisfarne, have been erased and corrected. A significant variation from the Lindisfarne text is that after , this manuscript contains an addition which reads, in part, \"Vos autem queritis . . . erit tibi utilius\". This addition is not found in the Lindisfarne Gospels, however it is found in an early 10th-century manuscript, also in the British Library (Royal, 1 A. XVIII). The tables of the capitula for the Gospels of Luke and John are identical to those in the Lindisfarne Gospels, as are the tables for the festival readings. These tables include festivals which were celebrated only in Naples (The Nativity of St. Januarius and the Dedication of the Basilica of Stephen). The source of the text for this manuscript and the Lindisfarne Gospels was probably a hypothetical \"Neapolitan Gospelbook\" brought to England by Adrian of Canterbury, a companion of Theodore of Tarsus who according to Bede had been abbot of Nisida, an (also hypothetical) monastery near Naples. Other books with the same textual character are the Stonyhurst Gospel and the St Petersburg Gospels.\n\nThe illumination in the manuscript is limited to the Canon tables and four large initials. The Gospels of Matthew, Mark, and Luke, as well as (the first verse after the Genealogy of Jesus), are begun with enlarged initials decorated in black, red, yellow and green in an early Anglo-Saxon style. These initials are surrounded by small red dots, which is a common motif in many Insular manuscripts, including the Lindisfarne Gospels. The prologues and the Gospel of John begin with enlarged black initials which are also surrounded by red dots. The Canon Tables are under columns and arches of black lines decorated in colored designs.\n\nThese texts appear in the following order. Note the eccentric order of the prefaces to the Gospel of Luke.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2093287", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093287", "title": "Ziad al-Khasawneh", "text": "Ziad al-Khasawneh\n\nZiad Al-Khasawneh is a Jordanian lawyer who headed a team of twenty-two defense lawyers for former Iraqi President Saddam Hussein.\n"}
{"id": "2093300", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093300", "title": "Laser airborne depth sounder", "text": "Laser airborne depth sounder\n\nThe Laser airborne depth sounder (LADS) is an aircraft-based hydrographic surveying system used by the Australian Hydrographic Service (AHS). The system uses the difference between the sea surface and the sea floor as calculated from the aircraft's altitude to generate hydrographic data.\n\nThe lack of progress made in surveying Australia's territorial waters, most of which was unsurveyed or relying on Age of Sail-era charts prompted the Royal Australian Navy to seek a method of effectively surveying large areas from the air in the 1970s. The Defence Science and Technology Organisation developed the LADS system, with feasibility trials beginning 1977.\n\nThe LADS system is built around a , which emits an infra-red beam at 990 hertz. The beam is frequency doubled to produce a green laser. This is split into two beams, one infra-red, one green, by an optical coupler, with the infra-red beam aimed directly below the aircraft, and the green beam directed across the target area with a scanning mirror. The infra-red laser does not penetrate the water's surface, and its reflected pulse indicates the height of the aircraft above the surface. However, the green laser penetrates to the ocean floor, and the return pulse from the green laser indicates the height of the aircraft from the ocean floor; the difference between the two values is used to calculate the water's depth. The data from the lasers is not processed aboard the aircraft, but instead by a ground support team, with aircraft flight data and global positioning system information used to help generate hydrographic readings. The aircraft makes multiple, overlapping passes of the target area to ensure accurate data is collected. The LADS system is capable of taking 990 soundings per second, with data points positioned apart across a swath up to wide. The system is capable of working with waters up to deep, and can be modified to perform land surveys of areas with an altitude variance less than \n\nLADS entered service with the AHS in 1993. The equipment was initially fitted to a Fokker F27 Friendship aircraft. In 2010, the system was installed in a de Havilland Canada Dash 8 aircraft. This is operated by the Laser Airborne Depth Sounder Flight of the Royal Australian Navy.\n"}
{"id": "2093306", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093306", "title": "Simon Scarrow", "text": "Simon Scarrow\n\nSimon Scarrow (born 3 October 1962) is a British author. Scarrow completed a master's degree at the University of East Anglia after working at the Inland Revenue, and then went into teaching as a lecturer, firstly at East Norfolk Sixth Form College, then at City College Norwich.\n\nHe is best known for his \"Eagles of the Empire\" series of Roman military fiction set in the territories of the Roman Empire, covering the second invasion of Britain and the subsequent prolonged campaign undertaken by the rump of the Julio-Claudian dynasty. As of December 2019, there are 18 books in the series; the latest, \"Traitors of Rome\", was published in 2019. \n\nHe has also written another series, \"Revolution\", focusing on Wellington and Napoleon, whose first title, \"Young Bloods\", was published in 2006. The second volume, \"The Generals\", was released on 31 May 2007 and the third volume \"Fire and Sword\" was released in January 2009. The fourth and final novel of the series was released in Jun 2010 and is called \"The Fields of Death\". He began publishing a new series in 2011 titled \"Gladiator\".\n\nThe last fifteen of Scarrow's novels have been Sunday Times bestsellers. His works have been translated into over twenty languages and have sold several million copies. He has been awarded two prizes for his fiction, a medal by NATO for supporting troops on deployment in Afghanistan and counts the King of Jordan as one of his fans. At present his Roman series has been optioned by a Hollywood studio to be produced as a TV series. Asked by the \"Edinburgh Book Review\" about the inspiration behind his interest in the Roman era, Scarrow said, \"Firstly, great Latin teachers – Gordon Rodway and then Reg Nash, who inspired a love of the language and more enduringly a fascination with Roman history and culture. Secondly, when I was growing up in the seventies swords and sandals epics seemed to be on the TV regularly. Not to mention the brilliant \"I, Claudius\"\". Scarrow cites the inspiration for his 'earthy' characters as being from his time in the Officer Training Corps.\n\nThe \"Eagles of the Empire\" series centres upon two main protagonists, Quintus Licinius Cato and Lucius Cornelius Macro, who are both Roman soldiers. Macro, a veteran with nearly 15 years' service (at the start of the first novel) in the Roman Army, has recently been appointed to the Centurionate. Cato is in his teen years, grew up in the Imperial Palace as a slave, and at the start of the series joins the Eagles as Macro's Optio. The first book starts in 42 AD. The books cover the experiences of the two soldiers, initially as experienced centurion and new optio, in battles in Germania and the invasion of Britain by Claudius as part of the Legio II Augusta. The 6th book \"The Eagle's Prophecy\" has them serving as part of the Imperial Navy east of Italy. The 7th and 8th put them in Rome's eastern provinces as agents of the Emperor's secretary Tiberius Claudius Narcissus. The 9th sees them shipwrecked on the island of Crete, fighting against a full-scale uprising. The 11th is set in Rome with the leads hoping to save the emperor from the shady Liberators. \"The Blood Crows\" is set once again in Britannia. The two protagonists are faced with defeating tribal rebels.\n\nThe two characters Cato and Macro were additionally used in one book of the \"TimeRiders\" series: \"Gates of Rome\". They served as supporting characters when the three protagonists travel back to ancient Rome. Scarrow allowed his brother Alex to make use of the characters in his novel.\n\nIn 2007 the publisher announced the intention to cease using the word \"Eagle\" in the title of books in this series, starting with \"Centurion\". The change was apparently because the publisher wanted to attract more new readers to the series.\n\n\n\"The Revolution Quartet\" centres upon the lives of Napoleon Bonaparte and Arthur Wellesley, later the Duke of Wellington. The first book in the quartet starts in 1769, and follows the two young men through their youth and on to their military careers.\n\n\nThe \"Gladiator\" series is aimed at the young adult audience, unlike his \"Eagle\" series.\n\n\n\n\n\nThe following are books which are either stand-alone novels or have yet to be confirmed as parts of a series.\n\n\n\n\n\nIn November 2006, Simon Scarrow was accepted to fill the post of Writer in Residence at Simon Langton Grammar School for Boys, a position he said he was \"honoured to accept\".\n\nSimon Scarrow's brother, Alex Scarrow, is also an author of numerous novels. Besides writing, Simon gives talks on history and writing at festivals and on cruise ships. His leisure interests include skiing and scuba diving.\n\n"}
{"id": "2093311", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093311", "title": "Brodmann area 22", "text": "Brodmann area 22\n\nBrodmann area 22 is a Brodmann's area that is cytoarchitecturally located in the posterior superior temporal gyrus of the brain. In the left cerebral hemisphere, it is one portion of Wernicke's area. The left hemisphere helps with generation and understanding of individual words. On the right side of the brain, it helps to discriminate pitch and sound intensity, both of which are necessary to perceive melody and prosody. Wernicke's area is active in processing language and consists of the left Brodmann area 22 and Brodmann area 40, the supramarginal gyrus.\n\nIt is bounded rostrally by Brodmann area 38, medially by Brodmann area 42, ventrocaudally by Brodmann area 21, and dorsocaudally by Brodmann area 40, and Brodmann area 39. These cortical regions surround the lower left posterior Sylvian fissure.\n\nThe Brodmann areas originated in 1909 by scientist Korbinian Brodmann after publishing the first cytoarchitectonic map of a human brain. Cytoarchitecture is a method used to divide the cerebral cortex of the brain into Brodmann areas. The cytoarchitectonic map separated the cerebral cortex into 43 areas as a way to study and understand the structure of the human brain. Brodmann developed this idea of using a parcellation approach for areas of the brain by studying cell distribution in grey matter, structure of the cortical layers and neuron density. This idea was founded by examining the human brain compared to human and non-human primates. The human brain areas are labelled 1 through 52, however not all are shown on his illustration. Brodmann found gaps in specific areas that are not distinguishable in the human brain yet they appear in other species. Brodmann labelled these unseen areas as 12-16 and 48-51 on the human brain map. These numbers are used for examining the functional activity in the different areas of the brain. The Brodmann areas that are relevant to language include Broca's area (BA 44/45) and Wernicke's area (BA 42/22), where Broca's area is responsible for language production and Wernicke's area is responsible for language comprehension. \n\nBrodmann area 22 (BA 22) combined with Brodmann area 42 (BA 42) form Wernicke’s area in the superior temporal gyrus in the temporal lobe. Using cytoarchitectonics, BA 22 is located in the middle temporal gyrus which separates it from the primary and secondary auditory cortex. BA 22 is connected with nonverbal sound processing in the right hemisphere of the brain associated with activation in the auditory cortex. More functions associated with language in Brodmann area 22 include producing sentences, semantic processing, and processing of complex sounds.\nThis area of the human brain supports lexical semantic processing and is responsible for language comprehension and production. Wernicke's area is shown to support lexical-semantics because lesions to this area result in difficulties displaying word selection during production of language. \n\nBecause Wernicke’s area supports language comprehension in the temporal lobe, lesions to the left auditory cortex, specifically in BA 22, results in Wernicke’s aphasia. Wernicke’s aphasia, also known as receptive aphasia, is a language disorder characterized as having difficulty comprehending language. This disorder varies in outcomes based on severity and localization of the brain damage, which is mostly commonly due to having a stroke. Patients diagnosed with Wernicke's aphasia are shown to have normal intonation and rate of speech, however have difficulty understanding different words of a language. Many individuals have poor awareness when making errors in speech, but are typically able to produce normal sentence structures when speaking. These sentences produced by patients with Wernicke's aphasia are often difficult for others to understand because of the problems with word selection and comprehension. These difficulties are shown at a lexical level, for example patients often struggle with naming figures due to accessing words from the lexicon.\n\nMethods used to understand functional activity in BA 22 consists mainly of Functional magnetic resonance imaging. Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) is a neuroimaging technique used to understand how language is processed in the BA 22. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is a technique used to study volume of grey matter and white matter in Brodmann area 22 to find deficits in the structural volume.\nBrodmann areas are based on cytoarchitectonic parcellation using numbering associated with locations in the brain to illustrate functional activity. BA 22 is separated from the primary and secondary auditory cortex by using cytoarchitectonic parcellation . Connectivity-based parcellations in BA 22 can be broken into three subparts: posterior, middle, and anterior subparts of the superior temporal gyrus. Using connectivity-based parcellations involves connections between white fibers to different areas in the brain. Cytoarchitectonic parecellations and connectivity-based parcellations are two ways of breaking the brain down to the structure and the connection fibers of Brodmann Area 22. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "2093312", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093312", "title": "Grand Central Records", "text": "Grand Central Records\n\nGrand Central Records was an independent record label based in the Northern Quarter of Manchester, UK. It was started in 1995 by DJ Mark Rae (who, along with Steve Christian makes up the duo Rae & Christian). Rae started out working as manager of the Fat City Records' store (which is now also a record label). The two labels maintained a close relationship, co-hosting club nights including \"Friends and Family\".\n\nGrand Central also had a digital sub-label, GC3.\n\nAs of May 2006, Grand Central Records ceased operating as a record label and the official Web site was closed down. The label was allegedly investigated by the MCPS with regard to unpaid royalties and the resultant bill was so large that it forced the label into liquidation.\n\nQNC are New York Hip hop artists, QBall and DJ / producer Curt Cazal. Originally members of J.V.C. F.O.R.C.E (Justified By Virtue For Obvious Reasons Concerning Entertainment), QNC later collaborated with Rae & Christian and Aim. Their debut album, \"Duo Dynamic\", was released in 2005.\nThe Nudge is Christian Wood (aka Woody), a DJ from Salford, Greater Manchester, signed to Grand Central Records by Mark Rae.\nHe only released a couple of 12\" singles under the name The Nudge - \"Bumpin' \" and \"Quickness\" (feat. \"The Rusty Pelicans\" aka The Rusty Ps), although further tracks and remixes appear on the Grand Central albums, Grand Central Vol. 1, Grand Central Vol. 2, Grand Central Translation, Grand Central Vol. 3 and Underground Crown Holders.\nVeba is a singer from Old Trafford, Manchester. She provided vocals on several songs for other Grand Central artists' records, including Mark Rae, Tony D, Fingathing, Only Child and most notably, Rae & Christian. An album containing several of her appearances, Veba Vs Grand Central was released in 2005.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2093318", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093318", "title": "Schnappi, das kleine Krokodil", "text": "Schnappi, das kleine Krokodil\n\n\"Das Kleine Krokodil\", also known under the title \"Schnappi\", is the debut single by animated cartoon crocodile, Schnappi, from his first album \"Schnappi und Seine Freunde\". The song is performed by Joy Gruttmann and was released in December 2004. It was a success in several continental European countries, topping the singles charts of Austria, Flanders, Germany, the Netherlands, Norway, Sweden and Switzerland; it ended 2005 as Europe's sixth-best-selling single. It also became a top-ten hit in Australia and New Zealand.\n\n\"Schnappi\" reached number one on Germany's GfK Entertainment Chart on 3 January 2005, staying at the top for 10 weeks. The song was then released worldwide and peaked at number one in Austria, Belgium, the Netherlands, Norway, Sweden and Switzerland in early 2005. It additionally reached number two in Denmark and number 10 in France.\n\nIn April 2005, the song began to experience success in Australasia. It made its first chart appearance on New Zealand's Recorded Music NZ (then RIANZ) chart at number 32 on 25 April. The next week, it jumped to number three before reaching number two for the first time on its third week in. Between 9 May and 18 July, the single fluctuated around the top 10, eventually spending five non-consecutive weeks at number two. It remained in the top 10 until 12 September. On 17 July, the song debuted at number 20 on Australia's ARIA Singles Chart, reaching a peak of number six on 21 August.\n\nThe song was re-recorded in Dutch by Snappie under the title \"Snappie de kleine krokodil\", which peaked at number two in the Netherlands and number five in Flemish Belgium. Belgian techno group Dynamite released a cover version that charted at number three in Flanders while the original version was still topping the chart. In Walloon Belgium, the song was covered in French by Charlotte under the title \"Schnappi, le petit crocodile\", and peaked at number 23. Another French version titled \"Crocky le petit crocodile\" was also released, as well as a Lithuanian version called \"Šnapis mažas klokodilas\" and a Japanese version entitled \"Togetogeshi, chiisai wani\" (刺々し、小さい鰐).\n\nCD single\n\nCD single\n\n3\" single\n\nCD maxi\n"}
{"id": "2093319", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093319", "title": "Cecil Price", "text": "Cecil Price\n\nCecil Ray Price (April 15, 1938 – May 6, 2001) committed the murders of Chaney, Goodman, and Schwerner in 1964. At the time of the murders, he was 26 years old and a deputy sheriff in Neshoba County, Mississippi. He was a member of the White Knights of the Ku Klux Klan.\n\nAlthough he was never charged with the murders, Price was convicted in October 1967 of violating the civil rights of the three victims. He was sentenced to a six-year prison term and served four and a half years at the Sandstone Federal Penitentiary in Minnesota. Following his release from prison he returned to Philadelphia, Mississippi and worked a variety of jobs. Cecil Price died following a fall from a piece of equipment at his job on May 6, 2001.\n\nOn the afternoon of June 21, 1964, Price stopped a blue Ford station wagon on Mississippi Highway 19 for allegedly speeding inside the Philadelphia city limits. Inside the station wagon were three civil rights workers James Chaney, who was driving, Andrew Goodman and Michael Schwerner.\n\nPrice arrested the three workers, allegedly for suspicion of having been involved in a church arson, and locked them in the county jail.\n\nDuring this time, he denied their requests for a phone call and instructed that anyone who called looking for them should be told that the three men were not there. Some time that same afternoon, Price reportedly met with fellow Klansmen to work out the details of the planned evening release and executions.\n\nPrice released the three following Chaney's payment of the speeding fine and followed them in his patrol car. At 10:25, Price sped to catch up with the station wagon before it crossed the border into the relative safety of Lauderdale County.\n\nPrice ordered the three out of their car and into his. He then drove them to a deserted area on Rock Cut Road while being followed by two cars filled with other Klansmen. He then turned them over to fellow Klansmen who committed the beating of Chaney and subsequent murder of the three men. Price returned to Philadelphia and resumed his duties as deputy while the bodies were being buried at an earthen dam that was under construction.\n\nFollowing a lead, the bodies of the three missing men were located at the dam site on August 4, 1964. Price was invited by FBI Inspector Sullivan to assist in the recovery efforts of the bodies. Sullivan suspected Price of being involved and wished to observe his reactions. FBI agent John Proctor stated that \"Price picked up a shovel and dug right in, and gave no indication whatsoever that any of it bothered him.\" \n\nPrice helped escort the three bodies to the University of Mississippi Medical Center in Jackson, where the autopsies were performed.\n\nFollowing the discovery of the bodies, the state of Mississippi refused to bring murder charges against anyone. However, in January 1965, Price and seventeen others were indicted with conspiring in a Ku Klux Klan plot to murder three young civil rights workers. The indictments were dismissed by District Court, but the decision was later reversed on appeal and the charges reinstated.\n\nThe trial of Price and the other defendants began on October 7, 1967, as \"United States v. Cecil Price, et al.\" During this time, Price declared himself a candidate for sheriff and he lost the election to Hop Barnette, one of his co-defendants. On October 21, 1967, Price was found guilty at trial of conspiracy and sentenced by Judge Cox to a six-year prison term. He served four and a half years at the Sandstone Federal Penitentiary in Minnesota.\n\nFollowing his release in 1974, Price returned to Philadelphia where he worked as a surveyor, oil company driver, and as a watchmaker in a jewelry shop. He was never charged with the murders of the three men.\n\nLater in life, Price refused to speak publicly about the events of 1964 to 1967. During an interview for \"The New York Times Magazine\" in 1977, he stated that \"he enjoyed watching the television show Roots\". In the same article Price said \"We've got to accept this is the way things are going to be and that's it.\" Price also told an African American pastor that he had repented for his previous actions. He helped Marcus Dupree, who his son Cecil Jr was friends with, get a commercial driver's license, allowing Dupree to establish a career after his retirement from the National Football League. Price died on May 6, 2001, three days after falling from a lift in an equipment rental store in Philadelphia, Mississippi. He died in the same hospital in Jackson where, thirty-seven years earlier, he had helped transport the bodies of the three slain civil rights workers for autopsies. At the time of Price's death, Mississippi attorney general Mike Moore and Neshoba County prosecutor Ken Turner were considering bringing state murder charges against some of the surviving defendants in the 1967 federal trial. Attorney General Moore saw Price's death as harmful to the ongoing investigation: \"If he had been a defendant, he would have been a principal defendant. If he had been a witness, he would have been our best witness. Either way, his death is a tragic blow to our case.\"\n\nThe first fictionalized version of Cecil Price appeared in the 1975 CBS 2-part TV drama, \"\". In this version, Ned Beatty portrayed Sayville Deputy Ollie Thompson.\n\nIn the 1988 movie \"Mississippi Burning\", the character of Deputy Clinton Pell was a fictionalized version of Cecil Price. The Pell character was portrayed by Brad Dourif with the part of Pell's wife played by Frances McDormand.\n\nIn the 1990 TV movie \"Murder in Mississippi\", Deputy Winter—the third fictionalized version of Cecil Price, was portrayed by Royce D. Applegate.\n\nIn HBO's 2016 movie \"All the Way\", Cecil Price was portrayed by Colby Sullivan.\n\nArchival footage of Price appears in the \"30 for 30\" documentary \"The Best that Never Was\", which chronicles the life of Marcus Dupree. The film begins with a brief mention of Price's involvement in the aforementioned murders, then brings it full circle, explaining that Price helped Dupree get a commercial driver's license, allowing Dupree to establish a career after his retirement from the National Football League.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2093320", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093320", "title": "Ike Nassi", "text": "Ike Nassi\n\nIsaac Robert \"Ike\" Nassi, born 1949 in Brooklyn, New York, is currently CTO and Chairman at TidalScale, Inc. in Campbell, CA, and Adjunct Professor of Computer Science at the University of California, Santa Cruz. He was formerly Executive Vice President and Chief Scientist at SAP AG, and the practice lead of the SAP Research Technology Infrastructure practice, which was focused on guiding SAP's technology infrastructure vision, direction, and execution. His group was also responsible for the SAP Sponsored Academic Research Program.\n\nHe is probably best known for creating (with Ben Shneiderman) the highly influential Nassi–Shneiderman diagram notation. He also helped design the Ada programming language.\n\nPrior to his work at TidalScale and SAP, Nassi helped start three companies: Firetide, InfoGear Technology, and Encore Computer. He co-founded the wireless mesh company Firetide and then served as its Executive Vice President, Chief Technology Officer (CTO), and Chairman of the Board. Nassi was the CTO and Head of Product Operations at InfoGear prior to its acquisition by Cisco Systems. He helped start Encore Computer, a pioneer in symmetric multiprocessors and forerunner of today's multicore processors.\n\nIn addition to his start-up experience, Nassi held an executive position at Cisco Systems following its acquisition of InfoGear Technology. He joined Apple Inc. to run the new Advanced Technology Group research lab in Cambridge, MA near MIT, work on the Dylan programming language intended for the Apple Newton, become VP of Development Tools in California, become Senior Vice President of Software, launch MkLinux, and become a Corporate Officer. He served on the boards of Taligent and the OpenDoc Foundation. He also held executive and senior management roles at Visual Technology (Tewkesbury, MA), Digital Equipment Corporation, and at SofTech.\n\nNassi serves as an active member of the Board of Trustees of the Computer History Museum in Mountain View, California, and formerly served on the board of the Anita Borg Institute for Women and Technology. He is a member of the Industry Advisory Board of the IEEE Computer Society, and member of the Advisory Boards of Northwestern University, Stony Brook University, and Peking University. He has been a Visiting Scholar at Stanford University and U.C. Berkeley, and was most recently a Visiting Scientist at MIT. Nassi holds several patents and a Certificate for Distinguished Service from the Department of Defense for his work on the design of the Ada programming language. He was a member of the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency's Information Systems and Technology group and has testified before Congress on the Emerging Telecommunications Act of 1991.\n\nNassi holds memberships in the IEEE and ACM. He earned a bachelor's degree in mathematics, and a master's degree and doctorate in Computer Science from Stony Brook University, in New York.\n\n"}
{"id": "2093324", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093324", "title": "International Superstar Soccer 64", "text": "International Superstar Soccer 64\n\nInternational Superstar Soccer 64 (officially abbreviated as ISS 64, originally released in Japan as Jikkyou J.League Perfect Striker and then later adapted as Jikkyou World Soccer 3) is a video game developed by Konami Computer Entertainment Osaka in the International Superstar Soccer series by Konami. It is essentially a Nintendo 64 version of \"International Superstar Soccer Pro\". Its team lineup follows more closely the Super NES version of \"International Superstar Soccer Deluxe\", only with South Africa replacing Morocco. It is similar to the PlayStation version. \n\n\"International Superstar Soccer 64\" was met with critical acclaim, and often called one of the best of the Nintendo 64's third party releases.\n\nThe game is similar to the PlayStation version (including the same player names, with the exception of Japan, England and a handful of USA players), but with some teams having a more inaccurate home or away kit. USA, for example, uses their 1994 World Cup Adidas \"stripes\" kit as home kit and their then-current Nike home kit as away kit. Gameplay is similar to that of the Super NES predecessor, \"International Superstar Soccer Deluxe\", upgraded for the Nintendo 64 with 3D animation. While it keeps largely the same team roster (with the teams now sporting near-authentic kits), South Africa debuted in this game as a selectable side, replacing Morocco. However, the Japanese version has teams that are not present in the overseas versions, such as Bolivia, Yugoslavia, Canada and Saudi Arabia.\n\nThere are six game modes, including single match, league battle, and penalty kick shootout. The player can assign a team member to cover a specific member of the opposing team. International Cup has the player competing against a range of teams from around the world in a round-robin tournament; World League is a series of 70 matches against every one of other teams in the game.\n\nThe player can also contest a penalty shoot-out competition with up to 4 players, or attempt to complete certain scenario games. These games are set up with a specific goal—for example, scoring a goal within a given time limit, or stopping the opposing team from scoring.\n\nThe game met with critical acclaim in Japan. In an interview around the time of the game's release in the region, Shigeru Miyamoto said that \"Konami's soccer game may be better than [Nintendo's N64] games. It looks really good.\"\n\n\"Next Generation\" reviewed the Japanese Nintendo 64 version, rating it four stars out of five, and stated that the game \"goes farther than most titles in presenting a fantastic look and feel. Just make sure you have a few friends around to play it, otherwise you'll tire from 10-3 wins real quick.\"\n\nU.S. reviews were also largely positive, and several critics noted that the A.I. in the North American release was dramatically improved from the Japanese version. Most said \"International Superstar Soccer 64\" was better than the Nintendo 64's previous soccer game, \"FIFA 64\", and Kraig Kujawa of \"Electronic Gaming Monthly\" went so far as to call it \"without a doubt, the best soccer game on the market\". \"GamePro\" was one of the few to voice criticisms with the game, specifically the music and the use of fictional players, but called it \"an arcade-ish experience that, while not as realistic as \"FIFA\", ranks much higher on the fun scale.\"\n\nThe most often cited strengths of the game included a variety of gameplay modes; the wide range of moves that the players can execute; the graceful, lifelike player animations; and the controls, particularly the tight responsiveness and strong implementation of the Nintendo 64 controller's analog joystick. However, most critics found it difficult to cover all of the game's positive elements. For example, \"Next Generation\" commented, \"Details like refs of varying skill, different weather conditions, real stadiums, and attitude give even more depth to a game that gets just about everything right.\" \"N64.com\" gave strong praise to \"International Superstar Soccer 64\"s multiplayer modes. They later published a longer review which covered a few criticisms, such as the lack of a FIFA license, but also commented more extensively on the game's strong attention to detail, and reemphasized that \"As far as multiplayer games go, ISS64 has replaced \"Mario Kart 64\", \"Star Fox 64\" and \"Wayne Gretzky\" as the ultimate gameplay experience.\" Glenn Rubenstein of \"GameSpot\" said that it \"offers just about everything \"FIFA 64\" did. It just does it slightly better.\"\n\nJust a few months after the game's North American release, \"Electronic Gaming Monthly\" ranked it the 24th best console video game of all time, commenting that \"The gameplay is awesome, appealing to both hardcore and casual fans of the sport. The graphics are the best of any sports game, as the attention to detail in the player animations is amazing. ... No soccer game comes close to this one.\" \"Official Nintendo Magazine\" ranked it the 81st best game available on Nintendo platforms.\n\nUSA/European version exclusive\nJapanese version exclusive\n"}
{"id": "2093328", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093328", "title": "Battle of Round Mountain", "text": "Battle of Round Mountain\n\nThe Battle of Round Mountain was the first battle in the Trail of Blood on Ice campaign for the control of Indian Territory during the American Civil War and occurred on November 19, 1861. Its main purpose was to prevent Union supporters of the Creek Nation, led by Opothleyahola from fleeing Indian Territory to the protection of Union forces in Kansas. \n\nThe physical location of the battle is in dispute. Some historians believe it to be near Keystone while others contend that it is near Yale, Oklahoma. The event is sometimes referred to as the Battle of Red Fork.\n\nCol. Douglas H. Cooper, Confederate commander of the Indian Department, was unable to reconcile differences with Opothleyahola, commander of a band of Unionist Creeks and Seminoles. Opothleyahola\" group was estimated to number about seventeen hundred people, and also included some Union supporters from the Comanches, Delawares, Kickapoos, Wichitas, and Shawnees. Cooper set out on November 15, 1861, with about 1,400 men either to compel Opothleyahola 's submission or \"drive him and his party from the country.\" Cooper's force rode up the Deep Fork of the Canadian River to find Opothleyahola's camp deserted. On November 19, Cooper learned from captured prisoners that part of Opothleyahola's band was erecting a fort at the Red Fork of the Arkansas River.\n\nCooper's men arrived there around 4:00 p.m. Charging cavalry discovered that Opothleyahola's followers had recently abandoned their camp. The Confederates located and followed stragglers; the 4th Texas blundered into Opothleyahola's warriors on the tree line at the foot of the Round Mountains. The Federal response chased the Confederate cavalry back to Cooper's main force. Darkness prevented Cooper's counterattack until the main enemy force was within . After a short fight, Opothleyahola's men set fire to the prairie grass and retreated.\n\nThe following morning, Cooper advanced on Opothleyahola's new camp but found that the Federal forces had fled. The Confederates claimed victory because Opothleyahola had left the area. The Confederates captured abandoned supplies, such as Opothleyahola's carriage, a dozen wagons, food, cattle and ponies. The Confederate loss in the engagement was 1 captain and 5 men killed, 3 severely and 1 slightly wounded, and 1 missing. Opothleyahola lost about 110 killed and wounded.\n\nThis was the first of three encounters between Opothleyahola's Union bands and Confederate troops. The Unionists were forced to flee to Kansas after the Battle of Chustenahlah at the end of the year.\n\nThe site of this event has been disputed for many years, with two locations emerging as the leading choices. One is near the present day town of Yale, Oklahoma. The other is close to the former site of Keystone (which is now submerged by the waters of Keystone Lake. Angie Debo, a noted Oklahoma historian, wrote an article describing the evidence for and against each site. She concluded that the evidence pointed more strongly to the Yale site.\n\n\"Cooper's Brigade\" - Col. Douglas H. Cooper\n\n\"Creek and Seminole Indians\" - Opothleyahola\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2093335", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093335", "title": "International Superstar Soccer Deluxe", "text": "International Superstar Soccer Deluxe\n\nInternational Superstar Soccer Deluxe (known as Jikkyou World Soccer 2: Fighting Eleven in Japan) is a football video game and the sequel to \"International Superstar Soccer\" developed and published by Konami. The Deluxe version was published first to the SNES, then the Mega Drive (developed by Factor 5) and finally the PlayStation.\n\nThe game features 16 different formations, and 8 strategies, and includes 36 national sides. However, all players have fictitious names, due to licensing restrictions.\n\nThe game contains eight different stadiums, and all vary in the fabric of the pitch and the surrounding décor, and are all of different sizes. The game can be played in many weather conditions. Below is a list of the different dimensions of the eight national stadiums in-game:\n\n\nReviewing the Super NES version, Videohead of \"GamePro\" said \"International Superstar Soccer Deluxe\", while not one of the best soccer games, is \"respectable\". He said the game has easy controls with a short learning curve, but that manual goalie control is difficult and high kicks tend to send the ball off-screen due to the large sprites and close-in side view. He praised the announcer's voice and crowd chants.\n\n\"Next Generation\" reviewed the Super NES version of the game, rating it three stars out of five, and stated that \"Overall, this particular stab at the Soccer genre is slightly above average, but not by much.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2093339", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093339", "title": "International Superstar Soccer Pro", "text": "International Superstar Soccer Pro\n\nInternational Superstar Soccer Pro (known as World Soccer: Winning Eleven '97 in Japan and Goal Storm '97 in North America) is a football video game developed by Konami Computer Entertainment Tokyo. It is a slightly improved version of the Japan-exclusive \"J-League Jikkyō Winning Eleven 97\".\n\nIt features 32 international teams, four different stadia, 13 team formations along with eight unique strategies and a choice of Exhibition Mode, International League, International Cup and a Penalty Kick mode. It can be played as a one or two player game.\n\n\"International Superstar Soccer Pro\" includes 32 different international teams based on their real equivalents of season 1996/1997 with accurate home, away and goalkeeper kits featuring manufacturer logos and national emblems. The line-up of each team consists of 16 fictional players.\n\nThe game was met with positive reviews. Critics were particularly pleased with the fluid, lifelike animations, the simplicity and responsiveness of the controls, and the strong blend of realism and fun. Kraig Kujawa of \"Electronic Gaming Monthly\" went so far as to say it \"may be the best blend of realism and entertaining gameplay that I have ever witnessed in a soccer title.\" However, the audio was strongly criticized, with the primary complaints being the inconsistency of the announcer and the annoying clicking sound which accompanies players moving down the field. \"Next Generation\" summed up that \"\"Goal Storm '97\" can't compare with \"Worldwide Soccer '97\" for Saturn when it comes to graphics or control, but soccer fans will definitely appreciate the pace and strategy of the game, and PlayStation owners can rest assured this game is a very close second.\" \"GamePro\" concluded that it comes in second to \"FIFA 97\", but recommended players rent both games to see which one better suits their tastes. In \"Absolute PlayStation\", Martin gave it an 86% and called it \"the first soccer game on PSX that has the correct balance between superb graphics and intuitive controls\", while co-reviewer Adam gave it an 8/10 and praised the players for being easily recognizable despite the absence of a players' license.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2093340", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093340", "title": "Novachord", "text": "Novachord\n\nThe Novachord is often considered to be the world's first commercial polyphonic synthesizer. All-electronic, incorporating many circuit and control elements found in modern synthesizers, and using subtractive synthesis to generate tones, it was designed by John M. Hanert, Laurens Hammond and C. N. Williams, and was manufactured by the Hammond company. Only 1,069 Novachords were built over a period from 1939 to 1942. It was one of very few electronic products released by Hammond that was not intended to emulate the sound of an organ.\n\nWhile production of the Novachord began in November 1938, it was first heard at the 1939 New York World's Fair. The Novachord Orchestra of Ferde Grofé performed daily at the Ford stand with four Novachords and a Hammond Organ. The first instrument was delivered to President Franklin D. Roosevelt on January 30, 1940 as a birthday present.\n\nThe Novachord was not well-suited to the technique of organists or pianists and required frequent adjustments to controls on the front panel to create new sounds. Like many analog synthesizers, it was much better-suited to producing \"otherworldly\" timbres. The instrument found its niche some years after production, shaping the sound of many science fiction film and television scores.\n\nProduction stopped because of a shortage of parts in 1942 and poor sales kept it from being built after the war. It is estimated that fewer than 200 Novachords are still in existence and considerably fewer are still in operation. The vast majority of surviving examples are in North America, although one is known to be in the United Kingdom. As of November 2017, there is now one in Australia.\n\nContaining 163 vacuum tubes and over 1,000 custom capacitors, the Novachord weighed nearly 500 pounds and was roughly the size of two spinet pianos. The divide-down oscillator architecture, based on vacuum-tube monostable circuits, permitted all 72 notes to be played polyphonically by deriving several octaves of notes from twelve top-octave oscillators. A similar design was adopted in polysynthesizers released more than 30 years later by Robert Moog and ARP.\n\nThe Novachord featured an early implementation of ADSR with seven attack/decay/sustain envelopes selectable by rotary switch and sustain-pedal controlled release. It also utilised a three-stage resonant band-pass filter network with variable damping and an electro-mechanical 6-channel vibrato unit operating on pairs of adjacent oscillators. The resulting sonic palette ranged from dense sustained string-like and vocal-like timbres to the sharp attack transients of a harpsichord or piano.\n\nDespite its historical importance, the Novachord did not enjoy commercial success. This was partly due to instability issues and the onset of World War II: reliability issues were caused in the main by the tight tolerances required of the operating parameters of hundreds of custom components. Hammond soon offered a special upgrade to improve stability, which was no more than a low-power heater bolted inside the enclosure to reduce the effects of humidity. The instrument was not known for vacuum tube failure perhaps because the heater voltage was reduced from the normal 6.3 volts to 5 volts.\n\n\nThe Novachord can be heard on many recordings of the era. Many songs sung by Vera Lynn, including \"We'll Meet Again\", were accompanied by Arthur Young on the Novachord. One of the most notable recordings to feature the Novachord is \"Brother Bones\" recording of \"Sweet Georgia Brown\" on Tempo Records TR652. The Novachord is used for the bass line on that track, but can be more prominently heard on the B side of the record playing the melody on \"Margie\". American jazz musician Slim Gaillard and his Quartette also recorded with the instrument on their 1947 instrumental release \"Novachord Boogie\" (Parlophone R 3035)\n\n"}
{"id": "2093344", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093344", "title": "International Superstar Soccer 2", "text": "International Superstar Soccer 2\n\nInternational Superstar Soccer 2 is a football video game in the International Superstar Soccer series by Konami. Unlike other football games by Konami it only features international teams. Initially being released on the Gamecube, it became possible to play the game on a Nintendo Wii also, introducing the game to a new generation of players, as with every original Gamecube game. Goals could come from a variety of sources; crosses, corners, penalties, free kicks, passing plays, solo runs, lobbed efforts and long range drives. The game continued the trend of having player's with different attributes, both visually and with regards to their style on the pitch; pacey wingers out wide, large target men up front, shorter centre forwards trying to cause problems for defenders with their skill running on the ball.\n\nOn release, \"Famitsu\" magazine scored the first PlayStation 2 version of the game a 33 out of 40. \"Cubed3\" gave the Gamecube version a 7 out of 10, criticizing poor AI on the highest level as well as removal of RPG feature and Scenario mode. \"GamersHell\" gave it 7.7 out of 10, criticizing the games' manual.\n"}
{"id": "2093346", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093346", "title": "Juliusruh", "text": "Juliusruh\n\nJuliusruh is a village on the northern coast of the island of Rügen in northeastern Germany. Juliusruh is part of the municipality of Breege. Juliusruh and Breege combined have 821 inhabitants in an area of 15,99 km² (approx. 6 sq miles).\n\nTourism is Juliusruh's economic mainstay.\n\nA facility for atmospheric research, the Ionosonde Juliusruh is located nearby.\n"}
{"id": "2093350", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093350", "title": "Baseball Grounds of Jacksonville", "text": "Baseball Grounds of Jacksonville\n\nThe 121 Financial Park (formerly Baseball Grounds of Jacksonville) is a baseball park in Jacksonville, Florida. It is the home stadium of the Jacksonville Jumbo Shrimp baseball team, who play in the Class Double-A Southern League. The facility opened in 2003. In 2020 it was renamed to 121 Financial Park.\n\nThe Baseball Grounds were proposed as part of the city planning program known as the Better Jacksonville Plan. It was designed to replace the aging Wolfson Park, the Jumbo Shrimp's previous home. The facility cost $34 million and broke ground in 2002, with construction being completed the following year. It became the first completed project of the Better Jacksonville Plan.\n\nThe Atlantic Coast Conference baseball championship was held at the venue from 2005 to 2008. The Georgia Tech Yellow Jackets won the first ACC Tournament at the Baseball Grounds of Jacksonville, followed by the Clemson Tigers in 2006, the North Carolina Tar Heels in 2007, and the Miami Hurricanes in 2008.\n\nThe Baseball Grounds hosts an annual game between the Florida Gators and the Florida State Seminoles. The most recent game was on March 26, 2019, when Florida defeated Florida State 4–2 in front of 8,041 fans.\n\nThe ballpark has twice hosted the Southern League All-Star Game. On July 8, 2003, the league's West Division All-Stars defeated the East Division All-Stars, 7–5, before an audence of 7,552 people. On July 17, 2013, the South Division defeated the North Division, 6–0, in front of a crowd of 9,373.\n\nThe facility has nearly 6,000 stadium-style chairs and can accommodate more than 11,000 fans, the highest capacity in all of Double-A baseball, with an old-fashioned design, brick facade and a grass seating berm and bleacher seating. It also features 12 luxury skyboxes, four skydecks, a large scoreboard and videoboard, a playground, and the \"knuckle,\" a unique mound for seating at the left field corner. Other ballpark features include a souvenir shop, first aid facility, various seating levels and perspectives, an ample number of restrooms and concession areas, in-seat concession services behind home plate, wide concourse and seating aisles and a high-definition video scoreboard in left center field.\n\nThe park has an in-house video broadcast of games provided by The Schelldorf Television Network. The ballpark is located in downtown Jacksonville, situated between VyStar Veterans Memorial Arena and TIAA Bank Field.\n\nThe largest crowd for a baseball game at the ballpark was 12,943, which occurred on April 11, 2003 during the grand opening of the park in a game between the Jacksonville Suns and the Huntsville Stars.\n\n"}
{"id": "2093351", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093351", "title": "1991–92 NHL season", "text": "1991–92 NHL season\n\nThe 1991–92 NHL season was the 75th regular season of the National Hockey League. The league expanded to 22 teams with the addition of the expansion San Jose Sharks. For the first time, the Stanley Cup Finals extended into June, with the Pittsburgh Penguins repeating as Stanley Cup champions, winning the best of seven series four games to none against the Chicago Blackhawks.\n\nThis was the first season for the San Jose Sharks, the first expansion team in the NHL since 1979. The birth of the Sharks returned NHL hockey to the San Francisco Bay Area after the California Golden Seals had relocated to Cleveland, Ohio in 1976.\n\nThis was also the last season for John Ziegler as NHL president. He would be succeeded by Gil Stein, who held the position for one year before being replaced by newly named commissioner Gary Bettman, during and after the 1992–93 season. After Stein's departure, the league presidency was merged into the new office of commissioner.\n\nA new rule was added in which the final minute of every period is measured in tenths of a second, unlike whole seconds as in past seasons. This timekeeping procedure matches that of the IIHF, which began doing so in 1990.\n\nTo celebrate the 75th anniversary season for the NHL, all players wore a special anniversary patch on their uniforms during this season.\n\nTaking cues from Major League Baseball's \"Turn Back The Clock\" uniform program, throwback uniforms were worn by Original Six teams for select games, and throwbacks were also worn for the All-Star Game.\n\nThe uniform styles that were worn include:\n\nThe throwback uniforms would influence future seasons in the NHL, as several teams adopted throwbacks as alternate jerseys. The National Football League and National Basketball Association would follow the NHL's lead, with teams wearing throwbacks to celebrate their leagues' 75th and 50th anniversaries, respectively.\n\nNew York Rangers defenseman Brian Leetch became the fifth, and last as of 2019, defenseman to score 100 points in a season. He finished the season with 102 points and captured the James Norris Memorial Trophy as the league's best defenseman. The Rangers ended the season with 105 points, winning the Presidents' Trophy as the top regular-season team in the NHL. It was the first time the Rangers had topped the league since 1942.\n\nFor the first time, the NHL finished play in the month of June. A primary reason for this was the 10-day NHL strike, the first work stoppage in league history, that started on April 1. The games that were supposed to be played during the strike were not canceled, but rescheduled and made up when play resumed on April 12.\n\nFor the first time in his NHL career, Wayne Gretzky failed to finish in the top two in scoring. The Pittsburgh Penguins' Kevin Stevens became only the third person in NHL history to outscore Gretzky in the regular season (Marcel Dionne tied Gretzky in Wayne's rookie year but scored more goals, and Mario Lemieux won the Art Ross Trophy over Gretzky in 1988 and 1989).\n\n\"Note: W = Wins, L = Losses, T = Ties, Pts = Points, GF= Goals For, GA = Goals Against\"\n\nThe series was held between the defending Stanley Cup champion Pittsburgh Penguins and the Clarence Campbell Conference champion Chicago Blackhawks. The Penguins won in four games, three out of four won by a one-goal margin. Mario Lemieux of Pittsburgh won the Conn Smythe Trophy as the playoffs' MVP.\n\n\"Note: GP = Games played; G = Goals; A = Assists; Pts = Points\"\n\n\"Note: GP = Games Played; TOI = Time On Ice (minutes); W = Wins; L = Losses; T = Ties; GA = Goals Against; SO = Shutouts; Sv% = Save Percentage; GAA = Goals Against Average\"\n\n\n\n\nThe following is a list of players of note who played their first NHL game in 1991–92 (listed with their first team):\n\nThe following is a list of players of note that played their last game in the NHL in 1991–92 (listed with their last team):\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2093352", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093352", "title": "International Superstar Soccer 3", "text": "International Superstar Soccer 3\n\nInternational Superstar Soccer 3 (officially abbreviated as \"ISS3\") is a football video game in the International Superstar Soccer series developed by the KCEO division of Konami. It is the final installment of the \"International Superstar Soccer\" series.\n"}
{"id": "2093355", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093355", "title": "ISS Pro Evolution", "text": "ISS Pro Evolution\n\nISS Pro Evolution (known as World Soccer: Jikkyou Winning Eleven 4 in Japan) is the third video game in the \"ISS Pro series\", developed exclusively for the PlayStation by Konami Computer Entertainment Tokyo, a division of Konami.\n\nThe engine has been recreated providing new player movements, animations and improved graphics. During promotion following taglines have been used: \"The King of football returns\" and \"This really IS football!\". The new version featured updated player rosters, extended amount of game modes, teams (including club teams for the very first time), stadiums and settings providing highly developed player editor not as long limited only to name edition. The game was precise in every detail and aspect of the game, such as the fact that the team captain could be selected with the captain's badge on arm and the colour of players' shoes could also be individualized. The replays could be stored on the memory card as well as won trophies and unlocked bonuses. In this version the one-two-pass system has been highly developed, becoming one of the greatest threats to the opponent and dribbling including trick-shooting has been introduced as a new trick in gameplay.\n\nThe number of international teams has been increased from the previous release. The teams are still not licensed, although they have their original home, away and goalkeeper kits with emblems and logos resembling their official emblems. However, like in \"ISS Pro 98\", player names are misspelled, but most of them sound right while being pronounced, such as Nigel Martyn being known in the game as \"Martin\" (the unlicensed name has the same pronunciation as the real name). Nonetheless, some players have their real names. These players include Rafael Márquez, Sol Campbell, David Regis and Maik Taylor. Each team consists of 22 players.\n\nIn \"ISS Pro Evolution\", for the very first time in the series club teams have been included (there are 16 clubs featured in the game, such as FC Barcelona) along with national teams; however, they could only be played in the new mode Master League, unless the player has exported the team on the memory card. Club teams are named with their respective city names in reference to their real-life equivalents, such as \"London\" and \"Amsterdam\" for Arsenal and Ajax, respectively. Just like national teams, club teams consist of 22 players. The line-ups reflect the actual squads of the 1998/1999 season, as well as the uniforms.\n\nThe 10 different stadiums included in \"ISS Pro Evolution\" are no longer generic stadiums named in letters order like in previous versions (although there is an imitation of the old Wembley Stadium in \"ISS Pro 98\"). The stadiums' fictional names stand for their real-life equivalents; for example, Stamford Bridge is named \"Blue Bridge\", while Old Trafford appears as \"Trad Brick Stadium\".\n\nOne of the main new features of \"ISS Pro Evolution\" is a new game mode named the Master League. The Master League is an exclusive league consisting of 16 club teams included in the game reflecting the best European clubs of that time. Regardless which team you choose to play its squad will be replaced with generic squad consisting of fictional players. The idea of the Master League, beside winning the whole competition, is to complete a squad with real players on terms of transfers. The transfers are based on exchanging players for points you gain according to your match record, which is calculated accordingly to the results achieved - a victory equals 8 points and a draw gains 4 points. Bonus points depending on the goal difference at the end of the match are added to the total point score as well (the bonus is adjusted to the difficulty of the Master League thus goal difference on the hard difficulty level is multiplied by 2). Upon completion of the Master League, due to the lack of different divisions, clubs are not promoted or relegated, regardless of their finishing position. Instead, the Master League begins from the start, and all players acquired from transfers are kept in the player's squad, and the player can continue playing the Master League to eventually buy more players with their acquired points until the player has finally created their desired squad, since the Master League never actually finishes and always loops after all matches have been played. The player's squad can be exported outside of the Master League for use in other game modes such as the Training Mode and Exhibition matches.\n\nThe Master League game mode is present in every subsequent version in the ISS and PES series. In successive versions of the series, throughout many modifications and improvements, the later versions of the Master League differ a lot from the original Master League used in \"ISS Pro Evolution\", since the newer PES games are an emulation of a whole season with promotions and relegations being added due to new divisions, rather than having only one division.\n\n\nBeside many flattering reviews the game also won the ECTS Interactive Entertainment Award in 1999.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2093359", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093359", "title": "ISS Pro Evolution 2", "text": "ISS Pro Evolution 2\n\nISS Pro Evolution 2 (known as World Soccer Jikkyou Winning Eleven 2000: U-23 Medal e no Chousen, \"World Soccer Live Winning Eleven 2000: Challenge for the Olympic Medal\" in Japan) is the fourth video game in the ISS Pro series and the second installment of the ISS Pro Evolution series, developed exclusively for the PlayStation by Konami Computer Entertainment Tokyo, a division of Konami it was available in Europe and Japan but not available in North America due to the previously released enhanced remake version of the previous entry in the series, ISS Pro Evolution, retitled ESPN MLS GameNight with MLS licenses.\n\nIt is the first ISS Pro game with proper licenses, although partial, some players having real names — e.g. Beckham instead of Bekham (ISS Pro Evolution). The game has an extended Master League, with 2 divisions and eight more clubs, resulting in a total of twenty four club teams, such as Leeds United and River Plate. More international teams have been added as well. Next to these additions, the gameplay has changed, as it is smoother and more realistic. The Japanese version of the game contains Under-23 National Teams as well due to Japan U-23 having qualified for the final round at the Sydney Olympics, as well as Australia's Under-23 National Football Team which is not present in the Europe versions of the game.\n\n\"ISS Pro Evolution 2\" won the BAFTA Interactive Entertainment Awards for \"Best Sports Game\" in 2001, The game also nominated for \"Game of the Year\" by British magazine Edge in early 2002, but lost to \"\".\n\n\n\nThe game received highly positive reviews from critics, scoring 95/100 on \"Metacritic\". Gibbons of BBC Sport gave the game 94% citing that \"ISS Pro Evolution 2 is the finest football game the world has ever seen and It's OK for a little run-around kind of football game, but if you want to enjoy the intricate skills of our national game, This game is the fan's only real choice.\" The game received 92% by Absolute-PlayStation. In the final issue of the Official UK PlayStation Magazine, the game was chosen as the best PlayStation game of all time.\nGideon Kibblewhite of GamesRadar+ gave the game Direct Hit citing that \"The best football sim in the world just got better. Amazingly. In a subtle, magical sort of way. So forget about FIFA and all those other two penny outfits that flatter to deceive - they're not even in the same league.\"\n\nHowever Swedish video game magazine Super PLAY gave the game 7 out of 10 citing that \"In summary, it is possible to say that ISS Pro Evolution 2 is another step away from the layout once made International Superstar Soccer so unique. Although it is not visible in the graphics, Konami knows how to fully utilize PlayStation's capacity. Both the control and the artificial intelligence hold a very high class. But if it's realistic football game that Konami wants to do, they should still think about bringing more club teams. And then they must learn to spell the names of the players. M-E-L-L-B-E-R-G, light as a spot.\"\n\nAccording to the Japanese magazine \"Famitsu\" \"ISS Pro Evolution 2\" sold a total of 362,989 units in Japan by the end of 2000, making it the 21st best-selling game of the year in the country.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2093363", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093363", "title": "University of Madeira", "text": "University of Madeira\n\nThe University of Madeira (\"UMa\"; , ) is a Portuguese public university, created in 1988 in Funchal, Madeira. The university offers first, second cycle and Doctorate academic degrees in a wide range of fields, in accordance with the Bologna process. It is now under the CMU/Portugal agreement with Carnegie Mellon University, having master programme in Computer Engineering, Human Computer Interaction and Entertainment Technology. Students admitted will be eligible for scholarships and have internship opportunity during the summer break. In addition, Madeira Interactive Technologies Institute, founded in January 2010, is devoted to building international partnership with other educational institutes and industry.\n\nThe university's campus dates back to a 16th-century Jesuit college. Its first higher education institution, a medical school, was founded in Funchal in the 18th century. In 1978, the University of Lisbon established a satellite campus in Madeira, and from 1983 to 1986, today's campus began taking shape, offering courses in the areas of science and technology, arts, humanities, and social sciences. In 1985, the campus integrated a polytechnic school of nursing (Escola Superior de Enfermagem); in 1989, a polytechnic school of education (Escola Superior de Educação da Madeira). In 1996, the Portuguese government and the University of Lisbon formally established the University of Madeira as an independent institution. In 2008, the university celebrated its 20-year anniversary.\n\nToday, undergraduate and graduate students choose from a wide range of programs across several departments, including Art and Design, Biology, Medicine, Physical Education & Sports, English, German Studies, Romanic Studies, Physics, Management and Economics, Mathematics and Engineering, Psychology and Humanistic Studies, Chemistry, and a Nursing School. Specific programs include Art and Multimedia, Communication Culture and Organizations, and the Educational Sciences.\n\nThe Academic Association of UMa (AAUMA) provides an array of extracurricular activities for university students throughout the year. Past AAUMA sponsored events have included film screenings, Sports Gala, boating trips, and volunteer opportunities. In addition, representatives from each student association serve on the Advisory Council, affording students an active role in the growth of the university and its relationship with the surrounding community.\n\nStudents who wish to explore Funchal will find a modern city of about 100,000 inhabitants. Its harbor and climate, combined with an attractive geographical position, have allowed Funchal to have a rapid population growth. The island is noted for its wine production, along with its exotic flowers, tropical fruits, and New Year's Eve celebrations with a spectacular fireworks show, considered the biggest in the world.\n\nIn 2007, Madeira's Mathematics and Engineering Department, along with Carnegie Mellon's Human Computer Interaction Institute (HCII) established a dual-degree Master's in Human-Computer Interaction program. In the program, students study computer science, design, psychology, and social and decision sciences. Students enrolled in the partnership program study in Madeira and at Carnegie Mellon's Pittsburgh campus, earning master's degrees from both universities.\n\nUniversity of Madeira consists of the following faculties:\n\n\nIn addition to the above-mentioned faculties, UMa consists of several research and specialization units.\n\nPublic funded Research Groups\n\nIntegrated in Public funded Research Groups\n\nOther Research Groups\n\nUndergraduate / 1st Bologna cycle\n\nMasters / 2nd Bologna cycle\n\nPostgraduate\n\nDoctoral / 3rd Bologna cycle\n\n"}
{"id": "2093368", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093368", "title": "Peterborough Examiner", "text": "Peterborough Examiner\n\nThe Peterborough Examiner is a newspaper that services Peterborough, Ontario and area. The paper started circulation in 1847, and is currently owned by Torstar and operated by its Metroland division. Between 1942 and 1955, it was edited by Canadian man of letters Robertson Davies, whose unique three-paragraph editorial style won several awards. Davies remained owner and publisher of the \"Examiner\" and Ralph Hancox the editor until 1967, when it was sold to the Thomson chain of newspapers. Subsequently, Sterling, Hollinger and Sun Media owned the newspaper before Postmedia. \n\nThe \"Peterborough Examiner\" was one of several Postmedia newspapers purchased by Torstar in a transaction between the two companies which concluded on November 27, 2017. The paper continued to be published by the Metroland Media Group subsidiary of Torstar. In late May 2020, Torstar, accepted an offer for the sale of all of its assets to Nordstar Capital, a deal expected to close by year end. \n\nIt is the only daily newspaper in Peterborough city and county. Its publisher is Neil Oliver and managing editor is Kennedy Gordon. \n"}
{"id": "2093370", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093370", "title": "Julia Breck", "text": "Julia Breck\n\nJulia Breck (22 August 1941 – 28 January 2020) was a British actress and \"glamour stooge\" born in Newport, Isle of Wight. \n\nShe is best known for her frequent appearances in Spike Milligan's \"Q\" series (1975–80), in which she generally appeared as a buxom \"glamour stooge\". Breck also appeared in \"Monty Python's Flying Circus\", \"On the Buses\", \"The Two Ronnies\" and \"Some Mothers Do 'Ave 'Em\".\n\nShe also appeared in many theatre productions, playing everything from Principal Boy in pantomime, to Lady Macbeth. She appeared in Andy Warhol's first play, \"Pork\".\n\nFollowing a final series with Milligan, \"There's a Lot of It About\" in 1982, Breck decided to retire from show business to concentrate on raising her three children whilst pursuing art and model-making as a hobby. She was married to Alexander (Sandy) Paterson (1979–her death), and was previously married to Brian Coburn (1970 - ?) (divorced). She lived in France with her husband, Sandy Breck-Paterson, a well-known internet crossword compiler, known as \"Arena\". \n\nIn her later years, Breck was a set designer for the Théâtre Comœdia in Marmande, France. She died in January 2020 at the age of 78.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2093373", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093373", "title": "Léon Dehon", "text": "Léon Dehon\n\nLéon-Gustave Dehon (14 March 1843 – 12 August 1925) - in religious Jean of the Sacred Heart - was a French Roman Catholic priest and the founder of the Congregation of the Sacred Heart of Jesus. Dehon's focus in his ecclesial life was to express his closeness with workers but above all wished to foster and promote a devotion to the Sacred Heart of Jesus. It also became his mission to establish an order that would be dedicated to this task as well as to working in the foreign and diocesan missions in France and abroad. But impediments caused the order's dissolution though was later reformed and reestablished with Dehon assuming its leadership until his death.\n\nThe process for his beatification started after his death but was halted in 2005 due to accusations that his published works were anti-Semitic in nature. He had been named as Venerable on 8 March 1997.\n\nLéon-Gustave Dehon was born in La Capelle in Soissons on 14 March 1843 to Alexandre-Jules Dehon (1814-82) and Stephanie Vandelet. Dehon's mother fostered a deep devotion to the Sacred Heart and passed this devotion on to him. His baptism was celebrated on 24 March. He received his First Communion on 4 June 1854 and his Confirmation later on 1 June 1857.\n\nIn 1855 he was sent to Hazebrouck to the college there where he studied under the noted priest Jacques Dehaene before graduating from the college in August 1859. In his adolescence he felt called to the priesthood (which manifested at Christmas 1865) but his father sent him instead for his education at the Sorbonne in Paris. He earned a degree in civil law on 2 April 1864 (with top honors) after his studies from 1860 to 1864 but had spent much of his free time in a local church. His father sent him on a long tour of the East (including Palestine) but en route back home entered the Saint Claire institute in Rome on 25 October 1865 to begin his ecclesial studies. Before he entered he met with Pope Pius IX who encouraged and blessed his vocation with Dehon referring to Pius IX as \"goodness united with holiness\".\n\nDehon obtained a bachelor of sciences on 16 August 1860 prior to commencing his studies for the priesthood. Upon pursuing that path he began his studies at the Pontifical Gregorian and at the Pontifical Roman Athenaeum S. Apollinare. It was there that he obtained a doctorate in philosophical studies on 27 June 1866 as well as in theological studies on 13 June 1871 and in canon law on 24 July 1871.\n\nHe received his ordination to the priesthood on 19 December 1868 in the Basilica of Saint John Lateran. His father came to terms with his son's vocation and returned to the Church himself after this. He celebrated his first Mass in Rome with his parents present.\n\nDehon acted as stenographer at the First Vatican Council (he was one of four French priests acting as such; his record of the proceedings was published as the \"Diario del Concilio Vaticano I\" in 1962) and then served as a parish priest at Saint Quentin as a curate from 16 November 1871. He began feeling drawn to communal religious life and on 28 June 1878 - following a pilgrimage to Loreto in 1877 with the Bishop of Soissons Odon Thibaudier - founded the Oblates of the Sacred Heart in which he assumed the religious name \"Jean of the Sacred Heart\" upon the profession of his vows at the moment of founding; he had begun his novitiate on 31 July 1877 prior to founding.\n\nHis new order grew at a rapid pace but misunderstandings about their mission attracted undue opposition which later compelled the order to disband on 3 December 1883 with Dehon feeling (in his words) \"torn to shreds\". But it was following a period of depression and serious reflection (as he undertook the Spiritual Exercises) that Dehon reformed the order as the Dehonians in March 1884 and making parish and foreign mission work as its focus. But it was the Bishop of Soissons Thibaudier who intervened to restore the order since he supported and appreciated Dehon's work. In 1886 he was elected as the order's Superior-General and held the position until his death. Dehon ensured that another focus of his order was to foster and promote a special devotion to Eucharistic adoration. The order received the decree of praise from Pope Leo XIII on 25 February 1888 who asked Dehon on 6 September in an audience to preach on the basis the pope's documents. The pope later appointed him in 1897 as a consulter to the Congregation of the Index and said of his decision: \"Let it be known that I approve his positions as I entrust him to the function of one who must judge the doctrine of others\".\n\nIn 1889 he started a magazine called \"Reign of the Sacred Heart\". Though the Dehonians had secured Leo XIII's support and his successors until Pope Pius XI he and his priests continued to be accused of slander and various other charges for a great period. These charges included accusations regarding Dehon's behaviour and his relations with the diocese overall. He participated in congresses and conferences and founded new houses but was noted for having heard confessions for long hours at a time. He began the construction of the Basilica del Sacro Cuore di Cristo Re in Rome (18.05.1920). Pius X had said of Dehon in 1906: \"We are looking for saints. Here is one that is being born\". Pius XI granted his order definitive papal approval in 1923.\n\nIn 1906 the order's motherhouse relocated to Brussels after the Church-State separation in France in 1905 which caused great difficulties for religious congregations. He wrote numerous articles for newspapers and periodicals and published books on social matters and devotional topics.\n\nIn December 1914 he drafted up his will and spiritual testament. In 1925 he began suffering from gastroenteritis that caused great pain to his digestive tract. Dehon died in Brussels on 12 August 1925 at 12:10pm; he died pointing at a portrait of the Sacred Heart and his last words were: \"For Him I lived; for Him I die. He is my everything, my life, my death, and my eternity\".\n\nDehon became noted for being prolific in his writings. He often wrote for various newspapers and periodicals on a wide range of different social issues as well as devotional subjects such as the Sacred Heart. The latter became a predominant theme for several of his published works. But in 2005 serious allegations were made regarding Dehon's works in view of the approval of his beatification. The allegations specified that Dehon was anti-Semitic in which he expressed anti-Semitic views in his writings. This caused the suspension of his beatification until a reexamination of his writings could be undertaken with his findings released upon its closure. On 5 February one French historian drew attention to seven controversial texts in which Dehon was accused of being anti-Semitic. The French paper \"La Croix\" published extracts in which Dehon has said:\nDehon's writings also suggested that the Jews wear special markings in which ghettos be established and Jews be excluded from land ownership and teaching positions.\n\nIn his 1898 \"Social Catechism\" he said that Jewish people \"favor enemies of the Church\".\n\nThe beatification process opened in the Mechelen-Brussels archdiocese in 1952 and had to collect witness testimonies and other evidence related to Dehon's work and life before the informative process could close. The cause remained inactive until 21 October 1988 after the Congregation for the Causes of Saints validated this process and then received the Positio in 1990 for assessment. The theologians approved the cause on 30 January 1996 as did the C.C.S. members on 3 February 1997. Pope John Paul II titled Dehon as Venerable on 8 March 1997 after confirming that the late priest had lived a life of heroic virtue.\n\nDehon's beatification depended upon a miracle being approved. These miracles are most often healings of a miraculous nature in which medicine and science fail to explain the healing itself. The case chosen came from São João del Rei and was investigated from 1961 until some point later while another process was opened and closed in the same location in 1965. The miracle in question involved the healing of the electrician Geraldo Machado da Silva from a grave case of peritonitis on 1 June 1954. The C.C.S. validated this process on 4 October 2002 and medical experts approved the healing as a miracle on 15 May 2003. Theologians approved it also on 21 November 2003 after confirming the miracle came after Dehon's intercession was invoked while the C.C.S. confirmed the findings of the two boards later on 20 January 2004. John Paul II confirmed the healing as a miracle on 19 April 2004 and confirmed that Dehon would be beatified.\n\nThe current postulator for this cause is the Dehonite priest José Briñón Domínguez.\n\nHis beatification cause still pends. It had been scheduled for 24 April 2005 but had been postponed due to John Paul II's death just three weeks prior. But it was later announced that the beatification itself has been placed on hold due to a re-examination of his writings in response to charges of anti-Semitism which several individuals and organizations had levied - both clerical and secular. Serious doubts were raised in 2005 before John Paul II's death in which the Cardinal Archbishop of Paris Jean-Marie Lustiger sent an urgent letter to Cardinal Joseph Ratzinger (who became Benedict XVI not long after) expressing alarm at Dehon's writings and asking for an examination. The French Episcopal Conference urged caution with the cause while the French government warned that it would not send a representative to the beatification if it went ahead. Benedict XVI therefore ordered an urgent reexamination of Dehon's writings with the first meeting scheduled for that 24 June. The pope tasked Cardinal José Saraiva Martins in charge while also appointing Cardinals Paul Poupard and Roger Etchegaray.\n\nIn a 5 June 2015 discourse to the Dehonians came comments from Pope Francis in which he expressed his desire for the cause to proceed while labelling their founder as \"the almost beatified Dehon\". The pope said that attitudes must be viewed in its historical context and said that he wanted the cause to \"end well\". Francis added that \"it's a hermeneutic problem\" that warranted an evaluation of the \"hermeneutic of the time\" rather than evaluating his writings through a more modern lens.\n\n"}
{"id": "2093378", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093378", "title": "Gillian Kearney", "text": "Gillian Kearney\n\nGillian Louise Kearney (born 9 May 1972 in Liverpool) is an English actress best known for her early role as Debbie McGrath in Channel 4's Liverpool-based soap opera \"Brookside\" and the spin-off mini-series \"Damon and Debbie\", and for playing Jessica Harrison in the long-running BBC television medical drama series \"Casualty\", as well as Emma Barton in the ITV Yorkshire-based soap opera \"Emmerdale\". The role of Emma Barton gained her recognition because of character's involvement in \"Emmerdale’s\" most high profile storylines during her three year stint.\n\nOne of four children born to Gerard and Barbara (\"née\" Allerston) Kearney, Gillian Kearney has three brothers, including Tom, a professional footballer. Her father is a retired civil engineer, and her mother a school care worker. Growing up in Aigburth, she attended St. John Almond RC High School, Garston, where she gained nine GCSEs and four A-levels. She later trained at the Rose Bruford College.\n\nHer interest in acting began at secondary school. After repeatedly being overlooked for the lead roles in school productions, she decided to join the Liverpool Playhouse Youth Theatre, where she featured in plays including \"All Flesh is Grass\" (as Ema), \"Katie Crackernuts\" and \"Yer Dancin'?\" It was there, in 1986, that she was spotted by members of the Mersey Television production team; this resulted in her being asked to audition for a role in Channel 4's Liverpool-set drama series \"Brookside\". Kearney landed the role of Debbie McGrath, the girlfriend of Damon Grant, played by Simon O'Brien. When O'Brien decided to leave \"Brookside\", he requested that his character be killed off so he wouldn't be tempted to return to the show. Because Damon was so popular, particularly with younger viewers, it was decided to create a \"soap bubble\" in which the character would meet his demise: the result, \"Damon and Debbie\", became Britain's first mini-series spin-off from a soap opera. A year after filming her final scenes, Kearney was asked to return for a few episodes. Christmas 1988 saw Debbie McGrath make an unexpected return to visit Sheila Grant, Damon's mother; she arrived with her baby, Simon – Damon's son.\n\nKearney played the young Shirley in the award-winning 1989 film \"Shirley Valentine\".\n\nShe also had the lead female part as Ellie Brookes in \"Sex, Chips & Rock n' Roll\" a six-part television mini-series which was written and created by Debbie Horsfield and directed by John Woods. It was produced by Wall to Wall for BBC One originally airing in 1999 before being adapted into a successful stage musical.\n\nIn 2002, Kearney landed the role of June Forsyte in the ITV1 adaptation of John Galsworthy's classic novel \"The Forsyte Saga\". She later reprised the role for the second series. Following the success of \"The Forsyte Saga\", Kearney's next role brought her back onto the ITV screen in its newest medical drama, \"Sweet Medicine\". Kearney was cast as Dr Deborah \"Deb\" Sweet, and starred alongside Jason Merrells, who played her husband, and Patricia Hodge as her formidable mother-in-law. The show was intended to take up the mantle of the popular rural drama \"Peak Practice\", which had recently ended, but low viewing figures saw \"Sweet Medicine\" axed after just one series.\n\nIn 2005, Kearney landed a role in Channel 4's hit series \"Shameless\", playing the role of Marty Fisher's (Jack Deam) girlfriend, Sue Garland. She left the show along with her on-screen partner in 2007. She had a number of television roles following her departure before landing the role of Jessica Harrison in \"Casualty\", in January 2008. Kearney left \"Casualty\" in February 2010, but returned briefly to tie up the loose ends of her character's storyline in May 2010.\n\nAs of 2 January 2015, Kearney began appearing in the ITV soap opera \"Emmerdale\", in the role of Emma Barton, the estranged wife of James Barton (Bill Ward) and mother of their three sons Pete (Anthony Quinlan), Ross (Michael Parr) and Finn (Joe Gill). Kearney has received critical acclaim for her performance, particularly when it came to the \"No Return\" week which saw the character hold James hostage and cause a huge crash that endangered the lives of seven Emmerdale residents; after Emma accidentally pushed James off the bridge, he later died. Kearney was nominated for Best Serial Drama Performance at the 2016 National Television Awards. In 2019 Kearney directed the 5Star woman's prison drama Clink.\n\nKearney lived in Crouch End, North London, from July 2000, and then rented a property in Clifton, Bristol, during her time appearing in \"Casualty\". She returned to live in Liverpool after the birth of her son; she also has a rented home in Yorkshire where she films \"Emmerdale\", and a holiday home on the Atlantic coast of County Clare, Ireland.\n\nIn April 2009 Kearney mentioned, during a \"This Morning\" television interview, that she was seeing a final-year medical student called Eddie, whom she had met whilst in Bristol. Early in 2010, Kearney announced her engagement to Eddie Foo and their intention to marry later that year in Ireland, but the plans were soon put on hold when she discovered that she was expecting their first child. Kearney gave birth to an 8 lb 3 oz (3.7 kg) baby boy on 26 August 2010.\n\n"}
{"id": "2093384", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093384", "title": "Solanum wallacei", "text": "Solanum wallacei\n\nSolanum wallacei, also known as Catalina nightshade, Wallace's nightshade, Northern island nightshade, or wild tomato, is a perennial plant that produces purple flowers, but otherwise resembles a tomato plant. The foliage and purple-black berries are poisonous.\n\nThis rare plant is native to canyons and hillsides on two of the three Channel Islands of California, as well as Guadalupe Island off Baja California. It blooms in April and May.\n\nWallace's nightshade is named for William Allen Wallace (1815-1893) who collected samples from the Los Angeles area around 1854. Also named for him is the woolly daisy, (\"Eriophyllum wallacei\"), among others.\n\n"}
{"id": "2093385", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093385", "title": "Accidentalism", "text": "Accidentalism\n\nAccidentalism may refer to:\n\n\nAn archaic use of the term \"accidentalism\" was the idea that disease is only an accidental modification of the healthy condition.\n"}
{"id": "2093386", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093386", "title": "Flemish Cap", "text": "Flemish Cap\n\nThe Flemish Cap is an area of shallow waters in the north Atlantic Ocean centered roughly at 47° north, 45° west or about 563 km (350 miles) east of St. John's, Newfoundland and Labrador.\n\nThe shallow water is caused by a wide underwater plateau covering an extended area of 42,000 km² (12,000 square miles). Depths at the cap range from approximately 122 m (400 feet) to 700 m (2,300 feet).\n\nThe Flemish Cap is located within an area of transition between the cold waters of the Labrador Current and warmer waters influenced by the Gulf Stream. The mixing of the warmer and colder waters over the plateau produces the characteristic clockwise circulation current over the cap.\n\nThe waters of the Flemish Cap are deeper and warmer than the Grand Banks of Newfoundland. The 58,000-square-kilometre area may have served as an important refuge for marine species during the last ice age.\n\nThe Flemish Cap lies outside Canada's 200 nautical mile (370 km) Exclusive Economic Zone established in 1977, and is therefore in international fishing waters. Overfishing became a serious issue in the latter 20th & early 21st centuries. Cod are particularly threatened here, as are American plaice, and the numbers of redfish have shown such significant decline as to be classified endangered.\n\nDuring the last decade of the 20th century & the beginning part of the 21st century, Canada made an effort to prevent overfishing in the region by use of provisions of the Coastal Fisheries Protection Act and the United Nations Fish Stocks Agreement.\n\nAccording to early written accounts dating back to 1607, the Flemish Cap's name is a reminder that fishermen from Flanders were once active in the area.\n\nThis area was filmed by Wolfgang Petersen in his 2000 film \"The Perfect Storm\" as the final fishing grounds of \"Andrea Gail\", captained by Billy Tyne (George Clooney). Swordfish were their primary catch.\n\n"}
{"id": "2093387", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093387", "title": "Frank Woolley", "text": "Frank Woolley\n\nFrank Edward Woolley (27 May 1887 – 18 October 1978) was an English first-class cricketer active 1906 to 1938 who played for Kent County Cricket Club and England. He was born in Tonbridge and died in Chester, Nova Scotia. His elder brother, Claud Woolley, played for Northamptonshire.\n\nA genuine all-rounder, Woolley was a left-handed batsman and a left-arm bowler who varied his style between left-arm orthodox spin and left-arm medium pace. He was an outstanding fielder close to the wicket, generally at first slip, and is the only player other than wicketkeepers to hold over 1,000 catches in a first-class career. He represented England in 64 Test matches from 1909 to 1934. Woolley is generally regarded as one of cricket's greatest-ever all-rounders. His first-class career runs total is the second highest of all time, after Jack Hobbs, and he scored the seventh highest number of career centuries. His career total of wickets taken is the 27th highest. He was a Wisden Cricketer of the Year in the 1911 edition.\n\nIn 2009, Woolley was inducted into the ICC Cricket Hall of Fame.\n\nBorn and bred in Tonbridge, Woolley became interested in cricket at a very early age. His childhood home was his father's cycle and engineering shop at 72, High Street, which was only 100 yards from the Angel Ground, home of the local Tonbridge Cricket Club and an occasional venue for Kent County Cricket Club, most often for matches against Sussex. The house was later demolished for road widening, and replaced by what is now a Starbucks which has a blue plaque dedicated to Woolley on the wall facing Tonbridge's High Street. Like his Kent and England colleague Colin Blythe, Woolley is commemorated in Tonbridge Parish Church and has a road in North Tonbridge named after him. As a small boy, Frank would spend as much time as he could at the Angel. In 1897, when he was ten, the Angel became the base for the Tonbridge Nursery, a training centre for Kent's younger players until it closed in 1927.\n\nWoolley's natural ability as both batsman and bowler attracted attention and, in 1903, he was engaged to take part in morning practice sessions at the Angel and in occasional matches. In 1904, aged 17, he became a regular member of the Tonbridge ground staff and, in that season and 1905, he made rapid progress which soon earned him recognition as an all-round prospect of exceptional promise. He played for Kent's Second XI against Surrey Second XI at The Oval in June 1905 and, although Kent lost, he took seven for 28 in Surrey's first innings.\n\nIn May 1906, Woolley made his first appearance at Lord's, playing for Kent Second XI alongside his brother Claud against Middlesex Second XI. The Middlesex team included Patsy Hendren and Ernie Vogler. Kent lost but Woolley made a good impression by taking five for 82 and four for 68. He made his first-class début for Kent in 1906.\n\nWriting for \"Barclay's World of Cricket\", Harry Altham described Woolley as a \"tall and graceful\" figure who, with \"a quiet air\" was \"unhurried in his movements\". As a batsman, he had a gift for timing his shots and made full use of his long reach. He was especially strong in driving off his back foot against balls that other batsmen might consider good length deliveries. He was equally graceful as a bowler, making full use of his height to extract additional bounce from his deliveries. Altham pointed out that, although Woolley lacked the subtlety of Wilfred Rhodes, he was nevertheless a formidable bowler on any pitch whose conditions helped him. Woolley's long reach and his \"large, prehensile hands\" enabled him to take 1,018 catches, a total that remains a world record for non-wicketkeepers. Neville Cardus wrote that no other cricketer served \"the meadow game\" as happily and faithfully as Woolley.\n\nAfter his retirement from cricket, Woolley was elected a life member of both Kent and Marylebone Cricket Clubs. He sat on the Kent club committee and remained active in his late life. In January 1971, he flew to Australia to watch the last two Tests of the 1970–71 series and saw England, under Ray Illingworth, regain the Ashes.\n\nIn 1914 Woolley married Sybil Fordham, a daughter of an Ashford veterinary surgeon. The marriage lasted almost 50 years and produced a son and two daughters. After Sybil died in 1962, Woolley moved to Canada, where he married Martha Wilson Morse, an American widow.\n"}
{"id": "2093393", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093393", "title": "Ljudevit Gaj", "text": "Ljudevit Gaj\n\nLjudevit Gaj (; born Ludwig Gay; 8 August 1809 – 20 April 1872) was a Croatian linguist, politician, journalist and writer. He was one of the central figures of the pan-Slavist Illyrian Movement.\n\nHe was born in Krapina (then in the Varaždin County, Kingdom of Croatia, (Austrian Empire)), on August 8, 1809. His father Johann Gay was a German immigrant from Hungarian Slovakia, and his mother was Juliana \"née\" Schmidt, the daughter of a German immigrant arriving in the 1770s. \n\nThe Gays were originally of Burgundian Huguenot origin. They arrived to Batizovce in present-day Slovakia in 16th or 17th century. Thence they became serfs of Mariassy de Markusfalva and Batizfalva families in 18th century. As there was a lot of ethnic Germans in that area, the Gays were soon Germanised. Ljudevit's father originates from a branch that moved to the village of Markušovce.\n\nGaj started publishing very early; his 36-page booklet on stately manors in his native district, written in his native German, appeared already in 1826 as \"Die Schlösser bei Krapina\".\n\nIn Buda in 1830 Gaj's Latin alphabet was published (\"Concise Basis for a Croatian-Slavonic Orthography\"), which was the first common Croatian orthography book (after the works of Ignjat Đurđević and Pavao Ritter Vitezović). The book was printed bilingually, in Croatian and German. The Croatians used the Latin alphabet, but some of the specific sounds were not uniformly represented. Gaj followed the example of Pavao Ritter Vitezović and the Czech orthography, using one letter of the Latin script for each sound in the language. He used diacritics and the digraphs \"lj\" and \"nj\".\n\nThe book helped Gaj achieve nationwide fame. In 1834 he succeeded where fifteen years before Đuro Matija Šporer had failed, i.e. obtaining an agreement from the royal government of the Habsburg Monarchy to publish a Croatian daily newspaper. He was known as an intellectual leader thereafter. \nOn 6 January 1835, \"Novine Horvatske\" (\"The Croatian News\") appeared, and on 10 January the literary supplement \"Danicza horvatzka, slavonzka y dalmatinzka\" (\"The Croatian, Slavonian, and Dalmatian Daystar\"). The \"Novine Horvatske\" were printed in Kajkavian dialect until the end of that year, while \"Danic[z]a\" was printed in Shtokavian dialect along with Kajkavian.\n\nIn early 1836 the publications' names were changed to \"Ilirske narodne novine\" (\"The Illyrian People's News\") and \"Danica ilirska\" (\"The Illyrian Morning Star\") respectively. This was because historians at the time hypothesised Illyrians had been Slavic and were the direct forefathers of the present-day South Slavs.\n\nIn addition to his intellectual work, Gaj was also a poet. His most popular poem was \"Još Hrvatska ni propala\" (\"Croatia is not in ruin yet\"), which was written in 1833.\n\nGaj died in Zagreb, Kingdom of Croatia-Slavonia, Austria-Hungary, in 1872 at the age of 62.\n\nThe Latin alphabet used in the Serbo-Croatian language is credited to Gaj's \"Kratka osnova Hrvatskog pravopisa\". \nThe Cyrillic counterpart is called \"vukovica\", after contemporary linguist Vuk Karadžić. The Slovenian alphabet, introduced in the mid-1840s, is also a variation of Gaj's Latin alphabet, from which it differs by the lack of the letters ć and đ.\n\nHe married 26-year-old Paulina Krizmanić, niece of an abbott, in 1842 at Marija Bistrica. They had five children: daughter Ljuboslava, and sons Velimir, Svetoslav, Milivoje, and Bogdan.\n\nIn 2008, a total of 211 streets in Croatia were named after Ljudevit Gaj, making him the fourth most common person eponym of streets in the country.\n\n"}
{"id": "2093394", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093394", "title": "Acta Senatus", "text": "Acta Senatus\n\nActa Senatus, or Commentarii Senatus, were minutes of the discussions and decisions of the Roman Senate. Before the first consulship of Julius Caesar (59 BC), minutes of the proceedings of the Senate were written and occasionally published, but unofficially; Caesar, desiring to tear away the veil of mystery which gave an unreal importance to the Senate's deliberations, first ordered them to be recorded and issued authoritatively in the \"Acta Diurna\". The keeping of them was continued by Augustus, but their publication was forbidden. A young senator (\"ab actis senatus\") was chosen to draw up these \"acta\", which were kept in the imperial archives and public libraries. Special permission from the city prefect was necessary in order to examine them.\n"}
{"id": "2093407", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093407", "title": "Business activity monitoring", "text": "Business activity monitoring\n\nBusiness activity monitoring (BAM) is software that aids in monitoring of business activities, as those activities are implemented in computer systems.\n\nThe term was originally coined by analysts at Gartner, Inc. and refers to the aggregation, analysis, and presentation of real-time information about activities inside organizations and involving customers and partners. A business activity can either be a business process that is orchestrated by business process management (BPM) software, or a business process that is a series of activities spanning multiple systems and applications. BAM is an enterprise solution primarily intended to provide a real-time summary of business activities to operations managers and upper management.\n\nThe goals of business activity monitoring is to provide real time information about the status and results of various operations, processes, and transactions. The main benefits of BAM are to enable an enterprise to make better informed business decisions, quickly address problem areas, and re-position organizations to take full advantage of emerging opportunities.\n\nOne of the most visible features of BAM solutions is the presentation of information on dashboards containing the key performance indicators (KPIs) used to provide assurance and visibility of activity and performance. This information is used by technical and business operations to provide visibility, measurement, and assurance of key business activities. It is also exploited by event correlation to detect and warn of impending problems.\n\nAlthough BAM systems usually use a computer dashboard display to present data, BAM is distinct from the dashboards used by business intelligence (BI) insofar as events are processed in real-time or near real-time and pushed to the dashboard in BAM systems, whereas BI dashboards refresh at predetermined intervals by polling or querying databases. Depending on the refresh interval selected, BAM and BI dashboards can be similar or vary considerably.\n\nSome BAM solutions additionally provide trouble notification functions, which allows them to interact automatically with the issue tracking system. For example, whole groups of people can be sent e-mails, voice or text messages, according to the nature of the problem. Automated problem solving, where feasible, can correct and restart failed processes.\n\nIn nearly all BAM deployments extensive tailoring to specific enterprises is required. Many BAM solutions seek to reduce extensive customization and may offer templates that are written to solve common problems in specific sectors, for example banking, manufacturing, and stockbroking. Due to the high degree of system integration required for initial deployment, many enterprises use experts that specialize in BAM to implement solutions.\n\nBAM is now considered a critical component of Operational Intelligence (OI) solutions to deliver visibility into business operations. Multiple sources of data can be combined from different organizational silos to provide a common operating picture that uses current information. Wherever real-time insight has the greatest value, OI solutions can be applied to deliver the needed information.\n\nAll BAM solutions process events. While most of the first BAM solutions were closely linked to BPM solutions and therefore processed events emitted as the process was being orchestrated, this had the disadvantage of requiring enterprises to invest in BPM before being able to acquire and use BAM. The newer generation of BAM solutions are based on complex event processing (CEP) technology, and can process high volumes of underlying technical events to derive higher level business events, therefore reducing the dependency on BPM, and providing BAM to a wider audience of customers.\n\nA bank might be interested in minimizing the amount of money it borrows overnight from a central bank. Interbank transfers must be communicated and arranged through automation by a set time each business day. The failure of any vital communication could cost the bank large sums in interest charged by the central bank. A BAM solution would be programmed to become aware of each message and await confirmation. Failure to receive confirmation within a reasonable amount of time would be grounds for the BAM solution to raise an alarm that would set in motion manual intervention to investigate the cause of the delay and to push the problem toward resolution before it becomes costly.\n\nAnother example involves a mobile telecommunications company interested in detecting a situation whereby new customers are not set up promptly and correctly on their network and within the various CRM and billing solutions. Low-level technical events such as messages passing from one application to another over a middleware system, or transactions detected within a database logfile, are processed by a CEP engine. All events relating to an individual customer are correlated in order to detect an anomalous situation whereby an individual customer has not been promptly or correctly provisioned, or set up. An alert can be generated to notify technical operations or to notify business operations, and the failed provisioning step may be restarted automatically.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2093417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093417", "title": "Scott Lomax", "text": "Scott Lomax\n\nScott Lomax (born 1982) is a campaigner and true crime author who wrote about the case of the convicted murderer Jeremy Bamber, and also about the innocence of Barry George who was acquitted of the murder of Jill Dando on 1 August 2008 after a retrial ordered by the Court of Appeal. He is author of a number of books and articles, the most notable being \"Who Killed Jill Dando?\", \"Justice for Jill\" and \"Jeremy Bamber, Evil, Almost Beyond Belief?\"\n\nLomax has written stories, articles and books since the age of 8. His work concentrates on issues of justice and he claims his desire to fight for justice came from a conversation with his grandfather.\nLomax is a human rights campaigner, having helped successfully campaign for the release of two men wrongly convicted of conspiring to commit armed robbery. Lomax ran the campaign for one of the men; James (Shay) Power. Lomax also helped run the Justice for Barry campaign to free Barry George.\n\nOne of Lomax's current cases is that of James Harry Reyos, an American Indian convicted of killing an Irish Priest in Texas, USA. Father Patrick Ryan was killed in Odessa, Texas, on 21 December 1981 and Reyos was found guilty two years later. Lomax runs the campaign to exonerate Reyos.\n\nIn addition to working on cases of alleged injustices, Lomax writes about unsolved murders in Derbyshire, published in the autumn of 2009 and South Yorkshire, published in February 2013. He has also written about Jack the Ripper and the Mafia in New York and Sicilly, according to his website. In recent years he has written books about the archaeology of Nottingham (2013) and the home front in Sheffield and Derbyshire during the First World War.\n\nLomax campaigns for tougher sentences for serious crimes such as paedophilia, rape and murder. He is campaigning to call for an end to many of the privileges enjoyed by prisoners. He has also campaigned for Peter Sutcliffe (the Yorkshire Ripper) to be moved from Broadmoor secure hospital, to a prison.\n\nIn 2009 Lomax made an appeal bid to have the sentences of Dano Sonnex and Nigel Farmer (convicted of murdering two French students in London) increased to whole life tariffs. His attempts to persuade the Attorney General to refer the case to the Court of Appeal on the grounds that the sentences were unduly lenient were unsuccessful, however.\n\nLomax lives in Derbyshire and is an archaeologist, writing in his spare time. He graduated from the University of Sheffield in 2004 with a degree in Archaeology and Prehistory.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2093418", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093418", "title": "Buddhist architecture", "text": "Buddhist architecture\n\nBuddhist religious architecture developed in the Indian subcontinent. Three types of structures are associated with the religious architecture of early Buddhism: monasteries (viharas), places to venerate relics (stupas), and shrines or prayer halls (chaityas, also called \"chaitya grihas\"), which later came to be called temples in some places.\n\nThe initial function of a stupa was the veneration and safe-guarding of the relics of Gautama Buddha. The earliest surviving example of a stupa is in Sanchi (Madhya Pradesh).\n\nIn accordance with changes in religious practice, stupas were gradually incorporated into chaitya-grihas (prayer halls). These are exemplified by the complexes of the Ajanta Caves and the Ellora Caves (Maharashtra). The Mahabodhi Temple at Bodh Gaya in Bihar is another well-known example.\n\nThe pagoda is an evolution of the Indian stupas.\n\nA characteristic new development at Buddhist religious sites was the stupa. Stupas were originally more sculpture than building, essentially markers of some holy site or commemorating a holy man who lived there. Later forms are more elaborate and also in many cases refer back to the Mount Meru model.\n\nOne of the earliest Buddhist sites still in existence is at Sanchi, India, and this is centred on a stupa said to have been built by King Ashoka (273–236 BCE). The original simple structure is encased in a later, more decorative one, and over two centuries the whole site was elaborated upon. The four cardinal points are marked by elaborate stone gateways.\n\nAs with Buddhist art, architecture followed the spread of Buddhism throughout south and east Asia and it was the early Indian models that served as a first reference point, even though Buddhism virtually disappeared from India itself in the 10th century.\n\nDecoration of Buddhist sites became steadily more elaborate through the last two centuries BCE, with the introduction of tablets and friezes, including human figures, particularly on stupas. However, the Buddha was not represented in human form until the 1st century CE. Instead, aniconic symbols were used. This is treated in more detail in Buddhist art, Aniconic phase. It influenced the development of temples, which eventually became a backdrop for Buddha images in most cases.\n\nAs Buddhism spread, Buddhist architecture diverged in style, reflecting the similar trends in Buddhist art. Building form was also influenced to some extent by the different forms of Buddhism in the northern countries, practising Mahayana Buddhism in the main and in the south where Theravada Buddhism prevailed.\n\nWhen Buddhism came to China, Buddhist architecture came along with it.  There were many monasteries built, equaling about 45,000. These monasteries were filled with examples of Buddhist architecture, and because of this, they hold a very prominent place in Chinese architecture. One of the earliest surviving example is the brick pagoda at the Songyue Monastery in Dengfeng County.\n\nA lot of the Buddhist temples in Hawaii have an architecture that is very specific to the islands. This comes from the fact that the Japanese immigrants who migrated to Hawaii didn't have all the materials they would in Japan, and also the land structure was different and called for different building techniques. Because these Japanese immigrants had all the knowledge of Buddhism and were exceptional craftsmen, these temples ended up being a good personification of their religion.\n\nThere are 5 styles of architecture that can be found in the Buddhist temples of Hawaii. The styles vary because of the time periods they were used in.\n\nThis was the earliest form of Buddhist temples in Hawaii. They took a larger plantation house and converted them into places of worship by adding things like an altar or shrines. This style offered an inexpensive way to build temples, and using residential space made the worshipers feel more connected. The most noteworthy difference is that the homes were not built with the intention of being turned into temples, they were originally built as a place for families to live. This style dropped in popularity during the 20th century.\n\nThis style originated when Japanese immigrants with the existing skill of building temples and shrines moved to Hawaii. These were made to be as similar to the original Japanese temples, but certain aspects had to be changed because of lesser access to materials and tools. Notable characteristics of this style are beam and post structure, elevated floors, and hip-and-gable roofs. The interiors held the same structure as its original counterparts in Japan.\n\nThis style originated with Japanese immigrants who did not have the greatest shrine and temple building skills. These immigrants still wanted the temples to have their original feel, but lack the skill to do it, so the building techniques they used were simplified. Some characteristics of this style are straight hip-and-gable roofs, as opposed to the long, sloping ones, separate social hall, and covered entryway. These temples doubled as community centers, and these temples were similar in style to western churches.\n\nThis style only is unique to Hawaii and came about due to racial and religious movements. This religious movement referred to Pan-Asian Buddhism, which was a combination of Indian, Japanese, and Western Buddhism. When the first temple of this style was built, the architects that were hired had no previous experience in Buddhist architecture. This style was popular up until the 1960s. This was probably one of the most popular styles of Buddhist architecture in Hawaii; smaller temples that couldn't afford to hire architects to do this to their temple would take certain aspects of this style and apply it to their temple. The interiors of these temples are very similar to the original temples in Japan.\n\nThis style is also very similar to western churches. This style became popular in the 1960s. These temples are usually made of concrete, and the roof styles vary unlike the other styles of temples. The subcategories of this style are residential, warehouse, church, and Japanesque. Like the other styles, while the exterior is dramatically different, the interior mostly remained similar to the temples in Japan.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2093425", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093425", "title": "Johnny Dangerously", "text": "Johnny Dangerously\n\nJohnny Dangerously is a 1984 American crime comedy film, and a parody of 1930s crime/gangster movies. It was directed by Amy Heckerling; its four screenwriters included Bernie Kukoff and Jeff Harris.\n\nThe film stars Michael Keaton as an honest, goodhearted man who is forced to turn to a life of crime to finance his mother's skyrocketing medical bills and to put his younger brother through law school. It also features Joe Piscopo, Marilu Henner, Maureen Stapleton, Peter Boyle, Griffin Dunne, Dom DeLuise, Danny DeVito, Dick Butkus and Alan Hale, Jr.\n\n1935. A pet shop owner catches a young boy shoplifting a puppy. To discourage the kid from a life of crime, the owner tells a story.\n\n1910. Young Johnny Kelly is a poor but honest newsboy in New York City. Johnny's mother, Ma Kelly, needs an operation they cannot afford. Since the execution of Johnny's father, Killer Kelly, Ma Kelly has supported Johnny and his younger brother, Tommy, who is fascinated by the law.\n\nJohnny's fight with a local kid (Danny Vermin) attracted the notice of local crime boss Jocko Dundee, who offers Johnny a job. Seeing no honest way to earn the money for his mother's operation, Johnny agrees to work for Dundee, even though it probably means \"breaking his mother's heart.\" He helps rob the nightclub belonging to Dundee's rival, Roman Moronie. When asked his name, Johnny coins \"Johnny Dangerously\", but Moronie, a malapropist of swearwords, claims he \"never forgets a fargin' face.\"\n\nYears pass. With Ma's continuing medical problems, Johnny goes to work for Dundee full-time. The whole neighborhood (including the Pope) knows that Kelly is really Johnny Dangerously, except for Ma and Tommy, who think he is a nightclub owner. Similarly, the gang knows nothing of Johnny's mother and brother.\n\nJohnny comes to Dundee's headquarters to find he has taken on two new gang members: Danny Vermin and his sidekick Dutch. Danny has lived up to his potential and become a total scumbag, with a taste for using opera audiences as shooting galleries with his .88 Magnum pistol (according to Dutch, \"They made it for him special.\" Danny then adds, \"It shoots through schools!\").\n\nAs the two gangs continue to war, Johnny falls for Lil Sheridan, a young showgirl new to the big city. (\"Do you know your last name is an adverb?\" she asks.) Eventually, Johnny becomes the boss of the Dundee gang and negotiates a truce with Moronie.\n\nA running gag has Ray Walston playing the owner of a newsstand who is repeatedly knocked out by a pile of newspapers flung from a delivery truck. He temporarily loses one of his primary senses whenever he comes to. At various points throughout the movie, his character alternates between blindness, deafness, and amnesia.\n\nEventually, Tommy graduates from law school (funded by Johnny's illicit earnings), and he goes to work for the District Attorney's office, under D.A. Burr, who is on Johnny's payroll. D.A. Burr tries to sidetrack Tommy, who has become a major public figure after hearings looking into Moronie's activities. (The rival crime boss is deported to Sweden, though he protests that he's \"not from there.\")\nMeanwhile, Burr and Vermin conspire to kill Tommy. Tommy is badly injured but survives. Johnny has Burr killed, but this leaves Tommy as the new D.A.\n\nVermin discovers that Dangerously is the D.A.'s brother—and Tommy overhears Vermin chortling about it. Tommy confronts Johnny, who agrees to turn over the evidence against himself to the Crime Commissioner—whom Vermin killed, framing Johnny. Not only that, Vermin steals Johnny's prized cigarette/gum case!\n\nJohnny is arrested but says the holder of the case is the guilty party. Johnny is found guilty, sentenced to the electric chair and sent to death row. But when Vermin congratulates Tommy, Tommy notices that he has Johnny's case. Ma Kelly sucker punches Vermin in the crotch, and they realize that \"Johnny didn't do it.\"\n\nJohnny arrives on Death Row, where he receives rock star treatment from the starstruck warden. Johnny hears word that Tommy is in danger, and plots an escape, prevailing on the warden to move up his execution. As he is taken to the chair, Johnny assembles what looks like a tommy gun from parts handed to him by inmates. He escapes in a laundry truck driven by Lil.\n\nJohnny, by way of a wild car chase involving several layers of shelf paper, arrives at the movie theatre where Tommy is to be killed. He shoots and wounds Vermin, saving Tommy. The governor pardons Johnny as Vermin is arrested.\n\nBack to 1935. The young shoplifter is round eyed. He is given a kitten as Johnny says \"Don't forget, crime doesn't pay.\" The kid goes on his way. Johnny, dressed in a tux, heads off in a limo with Lil, looks at the camera and admits, \"Well, it paid a little!\"\n\nThe theme song \"This Is the Life\" was written for the film by \"Weird Al\" Yankovic, though for legal reasons, the song was not featured on home video releases of the film, until the DVD was released in 2002. The VHS home video version of the film featured a version of the Cole Porter song \"Let's Misbehave\". The music video for Yankovic's song incorporates scenes from the movie.\n\nThe film received mixed reviews and holds a 44% approval rating on review aggregator Rotten Tomatoes based on 16 reviews. According to Mary G. Hurd, the film \"is loaded with sight gags, one liners, numerous sexual jokes, and puns\". But many critics found it to be a comedy which relies on sophomoric humor. According to Gwendolyn Audrey Foster, the film is both a gangster comedy and an homage to 1930s gangster films, but is perhaps too clever for a mainstream audience. According to Leigh Hallisey, the film is a parody of \"old-school\" gangster movies and reveals Heckerling's awareness of their conventions and stereotypes. Foster finds the comedies of Amy Heckerling to rely on \"fast-paced, witty repartee and droll humor\", and draws comparisons to those of Frank Tashlin and Jerry Lewis.\n\nMartin F. Norden considers the film to be part of a trend in 1980s comedies, linking disability to humor. He notes that the film contains numerous gags of this nature. He spotlights a running gag, concerning a blind newspaper vendor played by Ray Walston. He starts out blind but a bundle of newspapers hits him on the head, causing him to regain his sight. A repetition of the accident then leaves him deaf. Another repetition restores his sight and hearing but causes him to suffer amnesia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2093431", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093431", "title": "Handover of Hong Kong", "text": "Handover of Hong Kong\n\nThe transfer of sovereignty over Hong Kong, commonly known as the handover of Hong Kong (or simply the Handover, also the Return in mainland China), occurred at midnight at the start of 1 July 1997, when the United Kingdom ended administration for the colony of Hong Kong and returned control of the territory to China. Hong Kong became a special administrative region and continues to maintain governing and economic systems separate from those of mainland China.\n\nThis event ended 156 years of British colonial rule in Hong Kong. The territory was Britain's last substantial overseas possession. With a population of about 6.5 million in 1997, Hong Kong constituted 97% of the total population of all British Dependent Territories at the time. The retrocession is considered by some to definitively mark the end of the British Empire.\n\nBy the 1820s and 1830s, the British had conquered parts of India and had intentions of growing cotton in these lands to offset the amount of cotton they were buying from America. When this endeavour failed, the British realised they could grow poppies at an incredible rate. These poppies could then be turned into opium, which the Chinese highly desired, but their laws prohibited. So the British plan was grow poppies in India, convert it into opium, smuggle the opium in China and trade it for tea, and sell the tea back in Britain. The illegal opium trade was highly successful, and the drug was very profitably smuggled into China in extremely large volumes.\n\nThe United Kingdom obtained control over portions of Hong Kong's territory through three treaties concluded with Qing China after the Opium Wars:\n\n\nDespite the finite nature of the New Territories lease, this portion of the colony was developed just as rapidly as, and became highly integrated with, the rest of Hong Kong. As the end of the lease approached, and by the time of serious negotiations over the future status of Hong Kong in the 1980s, it was thought impractical to separate the ceded territories and return only the New Territories to China. In addition, with the scarcity of land and natural resources in Hong Kong Island and Kowloon, large-scale infrastructure investments had been made in the New Territories, with break-evens lying well past 30 June 1997.\n\nWhen the People's Republic of China obtained its seat in the United Nations as a result of the UN General Assembly Resolution 2758 in 1971, it began to act diplomatically on its previously lost sovereignty over both Hong Kong and Macau. In March 1972, the Chinese UN representative, Huang Hua, wrote to the United Nations Decolonization Committee to state the position of the Chinese government:\n\nThe same year, on 8 November, the United Nations General Assembly passed the resolution on removing Hong Kong and Macau from the official list of colonies.\n\nIn March 1979 the Governor of Hong Kong, Murray MacLehose, paid his first official visit to the People's Republic of China (PRC), taking the initiative to raise the question of Hong Kong's sovereignty with Deng Xiaoping. Without clarifying and establishing the official position of the PRC government, the arranging of real estate leases and loans agreements in Hong Kong within the next 18 years would become difficult.\n\nIn response to concerns over land leases in the New Territories, MacLehose proposed that British administration of the whole of Hong Kong, as opposed to sovereignty, be allowed to continue after 1997. He also proposed that contracts include the phrase \"for so long as the Crown administers the territory\".\n\nIn fact, as early as the mid-1970s, Hong Kong had faced additional risks raising loans for large-scale infrastructure projects such as its Mass Transit Railway (MTR) system and a new airport. Caught unprepared, Deng asserted the necessity of Hong Kong's return to China, upon which Hong Kong would be given special status by the PRC government.\n\nMacLehose's visit to the PRC raised the curtain on the issue of Hong Kong's sovereignty: Britain was made aware of the PRC's intent to resume sovereignty over Hong Kong, and began to make arrangements accordingly to ensure the sustenance of her interests within the territory, as well as initiating the creation of a withdrawal plan in case of emergency.\n\nThree years later, Deng received the former British Prime Minister Edward Heath, who had been dispatched as the special envoy of Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher to establish an understanding of the PRC's plans with regards to the retrocession of Hong Kong; during their meeting, Deng outlined his plans to make the territory a special economic zone, which would retain its capitalist system under Chinese sovereignty.\n\nIn the same year, Edward Youde, who succeeded MacLehose as the 26th Governor of Hong Kong, led a delegation of five Executive Councillors to London, including Chung Sze-yuen, Lydia Dunn, and Roger Lobo. Chung presented their position on the sovereignty of Hong Kong to Thatcher, encouraging her to take into consideration the interests of the native Hong Kong population in her upcoming visit to China.\n\nIn light of the increasing openness of the PRC government and economic reforms on the mainland, the then British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher sought the PRC's agreement to a continued British presence in the territory.\n\nHowever, the PRC took a contrary position: not only did the PRC wish for the New Territories, on lease until 1997, to be placed under the PRC's jurisdiction, it also refused to recognise the onerous \"unfair and unequal treaties\" under which Hong Kong Island and Kowloon had been ceded to Britain in perpetuity after the Opium Wars. Consequently, the PRC recognised only the British administration in Hong Kong, but not British sovereignty.\n\nIn the wake of Governor MacLehose's visit, Britain and the PRC established initial diplomatic contact for further discussions of the Hong Kong question, paving the way for Thatcher's first visit to the PRC in September 1982.\n\nMargaret Thatcher, in discussion with Deng Xiaoping, reiterated the validity of an extension of the lease of Hong Kong territory, particularly in light of binding treaties, including the Treaty of Nanking in 1842, the Convention of Peking in 1856, and the Convention for the Extension of Hong Kong Territory signed in 1890.\n\nIn response, Deng Xiaoping cited clearly the lack of room for compromise on the question of sovereignty over Hong Kong; the PRC, as the successor of Qing dynasty and the Republic of China on the mainland, would recover the entirety of the New Territories, Kowloon and Hong Kong Island. China considered treaties about Hong Kong as unequal and ultimately refused to accept any outcome that would indicate permanent loss of sovereignty over Hong Kong's area, whatever wording the former treaties had.\n\nDuring talks with Thatcher, China planned to invade and seize Hong Kong if the negotiations set off unrest in the colony. Thatcher later said that Deng told her bluntly that China could easily take Hong Kong by force, stating that \"I could walk in and take the whole lot this afternoon\", to which she replied that \"there is nothing I could do to stop you, but the eyes of the world would now know what China is like\".\n\nAfter her visit with Deng in Beijing, Thatcher was received in Hong Kong as the first British Prime Minister to set foot on the territory whilst in office. At a press conference, Thatcher re-emphasised the validity of the three treaties, asserting the need for countries to respect treaties on universal terms: \"There are three treaties in existence; we stick by our treaties unless we decide on something else. At the moment, we stick by our treaties.\"\n\nAt the same time, at the 5th session of the 5th National People's Congress, the constitution was amended to include a new Article 31 which stated that the country might establish Special Administrative Regions (SARs) when necessary.\n\nThe additional Article would hold tremendous significance in settling the question of Hong Kong and later Macau, putting into social consciousness the concept of \"One country, two systems\". The concept would prove useful to deploy until the territories were secured and conditions were ripe for its gradual revision.\n\nA few months after Thatcher's visit to Beijing, the PRC government had yet to open negotiations with the British government regarding the sovereignty of Hong Kong.\n\nShortly before the initiation of sovereignty talks, Governor Youde declared his intention to represent the population of Hong Kong at the negotiations. This statement sparked a strong response from the PRC, prompting Deng Xiaoping to denounce talk of \"the so-called 'three-legged stool'\", which implied that Hong Kong was a party to talks on its future, alongside Beijing and London.\n\nAt the preliminary stage of the talks, the British government proposed an exchange of sovereignty for administration and the implementation of a British administration post-handover.\n\nThe PRC government refused, contending that the notions of sovereignty and administration were inseparable, and although it recognised Macau as a \"Chinese territory under Portuguese administration\", this was only temporary.\n\nIn fact, during informal exchanges between 1979 and 1981, the PRC had proposed a \"Macau solution\" in Hong Kong, under which it would remain under British administration at China's discretion.\n\nHowever, this had previously been rejected following the 1967 Leftist riots, with the then Governor, David Trench, claiming the leftists' aim was to leave the UK without effective control, or \"to Macau us\".\n\nThe conflict that arose at that point of the negotiations ended the possibility of further negotiation. During the reception of former British Prime Minister Edward Heath during his sixth visit to the PRC, Deng Xiaoping commented quite clearly on the impossibility of exchanging sovereignty for administration, declaring an ultimatum: the British government must modify or give up its position or the PRC will announce its resolution of the issue of Hong Kong sovereignty unilaterally.\n\nIn 1983, Typhoon Ellen ravaged Hong Kong, causing great amounts of damage to both life and property. The Hong Kong dollar plummeted on Black Saturday, and the Financial Secretary John Bremridge publicly associated the economic uncertainty with the instability of the political climate. In response, the PRC government condemned Britain through the press for \"playing the economic card\" in order to achieve their ends: to intimidate the PRC into conceding to British demands.\n\nGovernor Youde with nine members of the Hong Kong Executive Council travelled to London to discuss with Prime Minister Thatcher the crisis of confidence—the problem with morale among the people of Hong Kong arising from the ruination of the Sino-British talks. The session concluded with Thatcher's writing of a letter addressed to the PRC Premier Zhao Ziyang.\n\nIn the letter, she expressed Britain's willingness to explore arrangements optimising the future prospects of Hong Kong while utilising the PRC's proposals as a foundation. Furthermore, and perhaps most significantly, she expressed Britain's concession on its position of a continued British presence in the form of an administration post-handover.\n\nTwo rounds of negotiations were held in October and November. On the sixth round of talks in November, Britain formally conceded its intentions of either maintaining a British administration in Hong Kong or seeking some form of co-administration with the PRC, and showed its sincerity in discussing PRC's proposal on the 1997 issue. Obstacles were cleared.\n\nSimon Keswick, chairman of Jardine Matheson & Co., said they were not pulling out of Hong Kong, but a new holding company would be established in Bermuda instead. The PRC took this as yet another plot by the British. The Hong Kong government explained that it had been informed about the move only a few days before the announcement. The government would not and could not stop the company from making a business decision.\n\nJust as the atmosphere of the talks was becoming cordial, members of the Legislative Council of Hong Kong felt impatient at the long-running secrecy over the progress of Sino-British talks on the Hong Kong issue. A motion, tabled by legislator Roger Lobo, declared \"This Council deems it essential that any proposals for the future of Hong Kong should be debated in this Council before agreement is reached\", was passed unanimously.\n\nThe PRC attacked the motion furiously, referring to it as \"somebody's attempt to play the three-legged stool trick again\". At length, the PRC and Britain initiated the Joint Declaration on the question of Hong Kong's future in Beijing. Zhou Nan, the then PRC Deputy Foreign Minister and leader of the negotiation team, and Sir Richard Evans, British Ambassador to Beijing and leader of the team, signed respectively on behalf of the two governments.\n\nThe Sino-British Joint Declaration was signed by the Prime Ministers of the People's Republic of China and the United Kingdom governments on 19 December 1984 in Beijing. The Declaration entered into force with the exchange of instruments of ratification on 27 May 1985 and was registered by the People's Republic of China and United Kingdom governments at the United Nations on 12 June 1985.\n\nIn the Joint Declaration, the People's Republic of China Government stated that it had decided to resume the exercise of sovereignty over Hong Kong (including Hong Kong Island, Kowloon, and the New Territories) with effect from 1 July 1997 and the United Kingdom Government declared that it would restore Hong Kong to the PRC with effect from 1 July 1997. In the document, the People's Republic of China Government also declared its basic policies regarding Hong Kong.\n\nIn accordance with the \"One country, two systems\" principle agreed between the United Kingdom and the People's Republic of China, the socialist system of the People's Republic of China would not be practised in the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region (HKSAR), and Hong Kong's previous capitalist system and its way of life would remain unchanged for a period of 50 years. This would have left Hong Kong unchanged until 2047.\n\nThe Joint Declaration provided that these basic policies should be stipulated in the Hong Kong Basic Law. The ceremony of the signing of the Sino-British Joint Declaration took place at 18:00, 19 December 1984 at the Western Main Chamber of the Great Hall of the People. The Hong Kong and Macao Affairs Office at first proposed a list of 60–80 Hong Kong people to attend the ceremony. The number was finally extended to 101.\n\nThe list included Hong Kong government officials, members of the Legislative and Executive Councils, chairmen of the Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation and Standard Chartered Bank, prominent businessmen such as Li Ka-shing, Pao Yue-kong and Fok Ying-tung, and also Martin Lee Chu-ming and Szeto Wah.\n\nThe Hong Kong Basic Law ensured, among other things, that Hong Kong will retain its legislative system, and people's rights and freedom for fifty years, as a special administrative region (SAR) of China. The central government in Beijing maintains control over Hong Kong's foreign affairs as well as the legal interpretation of the Basic Law. The latter has led democracy advocates and some Hong Kong residents to argue, after the fact, that the territory has yet to achieve universal suffrage as promised by the Basic Law, leading to mass demonstrations in 2014. In 2019, demonstrations that started as a protest against an extradition law also led to massive demonstrations (1.7 million on 11 and 18 August 2019), again demanding universal suffrage, but also the resignation of Carrie Lam (the current Chief Executive).\n\nThe Basic Law was drafted by a Drafting Committee composed of members from both Hong Kong and Mainland China. A Basic Law Consultative Committee formed purely by Hong Kong people was established in 1985 to canvas views in Hong Kong on the drafts.\n\nThe first draft was published in April 1988, followed by a five-month public consultation exercise. The second draft was published in February 1989, and the subsequent consultation period ended in October 1989.\n\nThe Basic Law was formally promulgated on 4 April 1990 by the NPC, together with the designs for the flag and emblem of the HKSAR. Some members of the Basic Law drafting committee were ousted by Beijing following 4 June 1989 Tiananmen Square protests, after voicing views supporting the student protesters.\n\nThe Basic Law was said to be a mini-constitution drafted with the participation of Hong Kong people. The political system had been the most controversial issue in the drafting of the Basic Law. The special issue sub-group adopted the political model put forward by Louis Cha. This \"mainstream\" proposal was criticised for being too conservative.\n\nAccording to Clauses 158 and 159 of the Basic Law, powers of interpretation and amendment of the Basic Law are vested in the Standing Committee of the National People's Congress and the National People's Congress, respectively. Hong Kong's people have limited influence.\n\nAfter the Tiananmen Square protests of 1989, the Executive Councillors and the Legislative Councillors of Hong Kong unexpectedly held an urgent meeting, in which they agreed unanimously that the British Government should give the people of Hong Kong the right of abode in the United Kingdom.\n\nMore than 10,000 Hong Kong residents rushed to Central in order to get an application form for residency in the United Kingdom. On the eve of the deadline, over 100,000 lined up overnight for a British National (Overseas) application form. While mass migration began well before 1989, the event led to the peak migration year in 1992 with 66,000 leaving.\n\nMany citizens were pessimistic towards the future of Hong Kong and the transfer of the region's sovereignty. A tide of emigration, which was to last for no less than five years, broke out. At its peak, citizenship of small countries, such as Tonga, was also in great demand.\n\nSingapore, which also had a predominantly Chinese population, was another popular destination, with the country's Commission (now Consulate-General) being besieged by anxious Hong Kong residents. By September 1989, 6000 applications for residency in Singapore had been approved by the Commission.\n\nSome consul staff were suspended or arrested for their corrupt behaviour in granting immigration visas. In April 1997, the acting immigration officer at the US Consulate-General, James DeBates, was suspended after his wife was arrested for smuggling of Chinese migrants into the United States. The previous year, his predecessor, Jerry Stuchiner, had been arrested for smuggling forged Honduran passports into the territory before being sentenced to 40 months in prison.\n\nCanada (Vancouver and Toronto), the United Kingdom (London, Glasgow, and Manchester), Australia (Perth, Sydney and Melbourne), and the United States (San Francisco, New York, and Los Angeles’s San Gabriel Valley) were, by and large, the most popular destinations. The United Kingdom devised the British Nationality Selection Scheme, granting 50,000 families British citizenship under the British Nationality Act (Hong Kong) 1990.\n\nVancouver was among the most popular destinations, earning the nickname of \"Hongcouver\". Richmond, a suburb of Vancouver, was nicknamed \"Little Hong Kong\". All in all, from the start of the settlement of the negotiation in 1984 to 1997, nearly 1 million people emigrated; consequently, Hong Kong suffered serious loss of human and financial capital.\n\nChris Patten became the last governor of Hong Kong. This was regarded as a turning point in Hong Kong's history. Unlike his predecessors, Patten was not a diplomat, but a career politician and former Member of Parliament. He introduced democratic reforms which pushed PRC–British relations to a standstill and affected the negotiations for a smooth handover.\n\nPatten introduced a package of electoral reforms in the Legislative Council. These reforms proposed to enlarge the electorate, thus making voting in the Legislative Council more democratic. This move posed significant changes because Hong Kong citizens would have the power to make decisions regarding their future.\n\nThe handover ceremony was held at the new wing of the Hong Kong Convention and Exhibition Centre in Wan Chai on the night of 30 June 1997.\n\nThe principal British guest was Prince Charles, who read a farewell speech on behalf of the Queen. The newly elected Labour Prime Minister, Tony Blair, the Foreign Secretary Robin Cook, the departing Governor Chris Patten and General Sir Charles Guthrie, Chief of the Defence Staff, also attended.\n\nRepresenting the People's Republic of China were the President, Jiang Zemin, the Premier, Li Peng, and the first chief executive Tung Chee-hwa. The event was broadcast around the world.\n\nAfter the Tiananmen Square protests of 1989, the Hong Kong government proposed a grand \"Rose Garden Project\" to restore faith and solidarity among the residents. As the construction of the new Hong Kong International Airport would extend well after the handover, Governor Wilson met PRC Premier Li Peng in Beijing to ease the mind of the PRC government.\n\nThe communist press published stories that the project was an evil plan to bleed Hong Kong dry before the handover, leaving the territory in serious debt. After three years of negotiations, Britain and the PRC finally reached an agreement over the construction of the new airport, and signed a Memorandum of Understanding. Removing hills and reclaiming land, it took only a few years to construct the new airport.\n\nThe Walled City was originally a single fort built in the mid-19th century on the site of an earlier 17th century watch post on the Kowloon Peninsula of Hong Kong. After the ceding of Hong Kong Island to Britain in 1842 (Treaty of Nanjing), Manchu Qing Dynasty authorities of China felt it necessary for them to establish a military and administrative post to rule the area and to check further British influence in the area.\n\nThe 1898 Convention which handed additional parts of Hong Kong (the New Territories) to Britain for 99 years excluded the Walled City, with a population of roughly 700. It stated that China could continue to keep troops there, so long as they did not interfere with Britain's temporary rule.\n\nBritain quickly went back on this unofficial part of the agreement, attacking Kowloon Walled City in 1899, only to find it deserted. They did nothing with it, or the outpost, and thus posed the question of Kowloon Walled City's ownership squarely up in the air. The outpost consisted of a yamen, as well as buildings which grew into low-lying, densely packed neighbourhoods from the 1890s to 1940s.\n\nThe enclave remained part of Chinese territory despite the turbulent events of the early 20th century that saw the fall of the Qing government, the establishment of the Republic of China and later, a Communist Chinese government (PRC).\n\nSquatters began to occupy the Walled City, resisting several attempts by Britain in 1948 to drive them out. The Walled City became a haven for criminals and drug addicts, as the Hong Kong Police had no right to enter the City and China refused maintainability. The 1949 foundation of the People's Republic of China added thousands of refugees to the population, many from Guangdong; by this time, Britain had had enough, and simply adopted a \"hands-off\" policy.\n\nA murder that occurred in Kowloon Walled City in 1959 set off a small diplomatic crisis, as the two nations each tried to get the other to accept responsibility for a vast tract of land now virtually ruled by anti-Manchurian Triads.\n\nAfter the Joint Declaration in 1984, the PRC allowed British authorities to demolish the City and resettle its inhabitants. The mutual decision to tear down the walled city was made in 1987. The government spent up to HK$ 3 billion to resettle the residents and shops.\n\nSome residents were not satisfied with the compensation, and some even obstructed the demolition in every possible way. Ultimately, everything was settled, and the Walled City became a park.\n\nThe Republic of China on Taiwan promulgated the \"Laws and Regulations Regarding Hong Kong & Macao Affairs\" on 2 April 1997 by Presidential Order, and the Executive Yuan on 19 June 1997 ordered the provisions pertaining to Hong Kong to take effect on 1 July 1997.\n\nThe United States–Hong Kong Policy Act or more commonly known as the Hong Kong Policy Act (PL no. 102-383m 106 Stat. 1448) is a 1992 act enacted by the United States Congress. It allows the United States to continue to treat Hong Kong separately from China for matters concerning trade export and economics control after the handover.\n\nThe United States was represented by then Secretary of State Madeleine Albright at the Hong Kong handover ceremony. However, she partially boycotted it in protest of China's dissolution of the democratically elected Hong Kong legislature.\n\nThe handover marked the end of British rule in Hong Kong, which was Britain's last substantial overseas territory. Although in statute law set down by Parliament, British Hong Kong had no status of pre-eminence vis-a-vis the other British Dependent Territories (as they were then classified before the term British Overseas Territory was introduced in 2002), Hong Kong was by far the most populous and economically potent. In 1997 the colony had a population of approximately 6.5 million, which represented roughly 97% of the population of the British Dependent Territories as a whole at that time (the next largest, Bermuda, having a 1997 population of approximately only 62,000). With a gross domestic product of approximately US$180 billion in the last year of British rule, Hong Kong's economy was roughly 11% the size of Britain's. Therefore, although the economies of the United Kingdom and Hong Kong were measured separately, the Handover did mean the British economy in its very broadest sense became substantially smaller (by comparison, the acquisition of Hong Kong boosted the size of the Chinese economy, which was then smaller than the United Kingdom's, by 18.4%). As a comparator to Hong Kong, in 2017 Bermuda (as with population, the economically largest of Britain's remaining territories) had a GDP of only US$4.7 billion.\n\nThe cession of Hong Kong meant that Britain's remaining territories (excepting the United Kingdom itself) henceforth consisted either of uninhabited lands (for instance the British Antarctic Territory), small islands or micro land masses (such as Montserrat), territories used as military bases (for example Akrotiri and Dhekelia on the island of Cyprus, itself a former crown colony granted independence in 1960), or a combination of the latter two (like Gibraltar). And while many of Britain's remaining territories are significant to the global economy by virtue of being offshore financial centres (Bermuda, the British Virgin Islands, and the Cayman Islands being the most prominent of these), their economies are insubstantial. Demographically, they are also tiny compared to Britain, with a collective population of less than 0.4% of Britain's 2017 population of 66 millions. As of 2018 the combined population of Britain's remaining fourteen Overseas Territories is only approximately 250,000, which is less than all but three districts of Hong Kong, and roughly equal to that of the City of Westminster\n\nConsequently, because ceding Hong Kong came at the end of half a century of decolonisation, and because the handover meant that the United Kingdom became without significant overseas territories, dominions, or colonies for the first time in its history (Great Britain, having been bequeathed the incipient domains of its later empire by inheriting the colonial possessions of the Kingdom of England upon the passing of the Acts of Union 1707, always having been an imperial power, ab initio) the handover of Hong Kong to China is regarded by some as marking the conclusion of the British Empire, with 1 July 1997 being its end date and the handover ceremony being its last diplomatic act.\n\nScholars have begun to study the complexities of the transfer as shown in the popular media, such as films, television and video and online games. For example, Hong Kong director Fruit Chan made a sci-fi thriller \"The Midnight After\" (2014) that stressed the sense of loss and alienation represented by survivors in an apocalyptic Hong Kong. Chan infuses a political agenda in the film by playing on Hong Kongers' collective anxiety towards communist China. Yiman Wang has argued that America has viewed China through the prisms of films from Shanghai and Hong Kong, with a recent emphasis on futuristic disaster films set in Hong Kong after the transfer goes awry. \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2093434", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093434", "title": "Scott Proctor", "text": "Scott Proctor\n\nScott Christopher Proctor (born January 2, 1977) is an American former professional baseball pitcher. He played in Major League Baseball (MLB) between 2004 and 2011 for the New York Yankees, Los Angeles Dodgers, and Atlanta Braves. In 2012, he played for the Doosan Bears of the KBO League.\n\nProctor was drafted in the 17th round of the 1995 Major League Baseball draft by the New York Mets out of Martin County High School, but decided to attend Florida State University, where he played for the Florida State Seminoles baseball team under head coach Mike Martin. He was 10–2 in 60 career games for Florida State. In 1996, he played collegiate summer baseball for the Orleans Cardinals of the Cape Cod Baseball League, and returned to the league in 1997 and 1998 to play with the Hyannis Mets.\n\nIn 1998, Proctor was drafted in the fifth round by the Los Angeles Dodgers and assigned to the Yakima Bears to start his professional career. He played for the Vero Beach Dodgers (2000–2001), Jacksonville Suns (2001–2003) and Las Vegas 51s (2003).\n\nOn July 31, 2003, Proctor was traded to the New York Yankees with Bubba Crosby for Robin Ventura. The Yankees assigned him to the Triple-A Columbus Clippers. Proctor made his Major League Baseball debut for the Yankees on April 20, 2004 against the Chicago White Sox, working innings in relief and allowing 2 earned runs.\n\nThroughout the course of his first season, he appeared in 26 games, pitched 25 innings, finished 12 games, and posted a 2–1 record and a 5.40 ERA with 21 strikeouts. He finished the 2005 season with a 6.04 ERA and a 1–0 record.\n\nIn 2006, Proctor emerged as a durable, reliable late-inning option for manager Joe Torre. Finally harnessing his breaking pitches, Proctor led the American League with 83 appearances, often pitching more than one inning or in consecutive games. Proctor notched his first career save in 2006. Along with Kyle Farnsworth and Brian Bruney, Proctor was a part of the Yankees' bridge between the starters and closer Mariano Rivera, and reprised that role for the first part of the 2007 season.\n\nProctor's heavy use as a Yankee reliever led to concerns that Torre was overusing him. General manager Brian Cashman revealed in 2011 that he confronted Torre about Proctor's workload and asked the pitcher to be more honest about whether he could pitch on a given day: \"I met with Proctor and said, 'You better stop telling the manager [that you can pitch] because the way he manages' — I'm not criticizing Joe, that's just the way he is — 'He wants an honest answer. Just tell him no.\n\nProctor pitched in 5 postseason games for the Yankees: two against Los Angeles and three against Detroit. In six innings, he struck out two and gave up just one run.\n\nOn July 31, 2007, Proctor was traded to the Los Angeles Dodgers in exchange for infielder Wilson Betemit. He was mostly used as a late inning setup man. He finished the 2007 season with an impressive 3–0 record and a 3.38 ERA in 31 relief appearances for the Dodgers.\n\nHe had a rough 2008 season and spent most of it on the Disabled List. However, he pitched much better in the month of September, helping the Los Angeles Dodgers win the National League West Division title. He finished the season with a 2–0 record, but a high ERA of 6.05 in just 41 games. He became a free agent at the end of the season.\n\nIn January 2009, he signed a one-year contract with the Florida Marlins worth $750,000, with an additional $250,000 in incentives. During Spring training, he was placed on the disabled list with elbow pain. When the pain remained, and ligament fraying was found, he underwent Tommy John surgery on May 12, 2009, and missed the entire 2009 season. On October 9, 2009, Proctor was released by the Marlins.\n\nOn November 4, 2009 Proctor's agent, Mark Rodgers, released that Proctor had signed a split contract with the Braves and received an invitation to Spring training. He spent 2010 pitching for the Double-A Mississippi Braves and Triple-A Gwinnett Braves. As of August 14, he had compiled a 7.82 ERA in 31 appearances between the 2 teams.\n\nOn March 27, 2011 after pitching with a 5.06 ERA in ten appearances in the 2011 Atlanta Braves Spring training camp, Proctor was released from the Braves' organization. Had he remained on the Braves' roster the following day, his $750,000 salary would have been paid in full. Instead, the Braves merely had to pay him a fraction of his salary.\n\nJust over a week after being released from the Braves organization, Proctor re-signed to the Braves on April 3, 2011, with a minor league contract. He has been added to the roster of their Triple-A affiliate, the Gwinnett Braves. He had his contract purchased on May 14.\n\nProctor was released from the Braves on August 10, 2011 after posting a 6.44 ERA in 31 appearances. His roster spot was filled by Arodys Vizcaíno. In two seasons with Atlanta, Proctor, with a record of 2–3, had a 6.43 ERA in 37 appearances, allowing 35 hits, 5 Home runs, 25 earned runs and 23 walks with 24 strikeouts in 35 innings.\n\nOn August 13, he signed a minor league contract with the New York Yankees and was assigned to the Triple-A Scranton/Wilkes-Barre Yankees. He was called up on September 1 and made his debut for the Yankees on September 5, entering in relief against the Baltimore Orioles. Proctor picked up the loss in Game 162, surrendering a walkoff homerun to Evan Longoria that propelled the Rays to the postseason. He declared for free agency on October 11.\n\nProctor signed with the Doosan Bears of the Korea Baseball Organization for the 2012 season.\n\nProctor signed a minor league contract with the San Francisco Giants on January 2, 2013.\n\nProctor was traded to the Orioles on March 29, 2013 for cash considerations.\n\nProctor is a power pitcher with a diverse pitch repertoire. Proctor's fastball ranges from 94 mph to almost 100, although he was known to throw beyond 100 as the closer for the Columbus Clippers, the Yankees' former Triple-A affiliate. As a former minor league starter, Proctor features several pitches. He will throw both four and two-seam fastballs. Proctor's secondary pitches include a mid-eighties slider, a high seventies curveball, and an occasional changeup in the low eighties. He will throw all but his change-up in any count, but his primary weapons are the four-seam fastball, the curve, and the slider.\n\nProctor has run into some instances where he has appeared to assume the responsibility of retaliation for the Yankees. In two instances, Proctor allegedly threw at batters with the intention for retaliation.\n\nOne instance occurred in a game against the Seattle Mariners in which Scott Proctor threw behind Yuniesky Betancourt. Betancourt and Proctor exchanged heated words. Proctor may have felt that the Yankees were in position to retaliate after his teammate, Yankees first baseman Josh Phelps, was hit by a pitch. But Phelps was hit in retaliation for his part in, what appeared to be, an intentional hit on Seattle catcher Kenji Johjima. Therefore, the incident between Phelps and Johjima has already been settled with the \"beaning\" of Phelps but Proctor took offense to the fact the retaliation was exercised on Phelps. Proctor was suspended after that incident.\n\nAnother instance occurred on June 1, 2007 when Proctor hit Boston Red Sox first baseman Kevin Youkilis in the shoulder after two Yankee batters were hit. Youkilis was the fifth hit batsman in the game. A visibly enraged Youkilis had to be held back by Yankee catcher Jorge Posada. Proctor was soon ejected after both benches calmed, though Proctor remained upset over his ejection. After the game, he protested to the media that the pitch had gotten away from him and that he had no reason to hit Youkilis as he had a 2–2 count. Before the following game, during the YES Pre-Game Show, Joe Torre told reporters that after Proctor's ejection, Proctor stormed into Torre's office and insisted that he did not throw at Youkilis intentionally, an explanation Torre accepted. Torre, however, did not protest Proctor's resulting one-game suspension.\n\nOn June 30, after a poor performance in a loss to the Oakland Athletics (and after taking the loss in each of the Yankees' last two games), Proctor lit fire to his equipment on the field, just feet from the Yankees dugout.\n\nIn June 2009, Proctor revealed that he was a recovering alcoholic and had been attending Alcoholics Anonymous meetings. He credits Mariano Rivera with urging him to straighten his life out.\n\nThe heavy usage of Scott Proctor early in his career has drawn criticism of the way then Yankee manager Joe Torre used relievers. Proctor appeared in 83 games in both 2006 and 2007, 3rd and 5th most amongst all MLB pitchers respectively. Yankees general manager Brian Cashman says he told Proctor to give an \"honest answer\" to manager Joe Torre when he asked if Proctor was ready to pitch again.\n\n"}
{"id": "2093435", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093435", "title": "Bryggens Museum", "text": "Bryggens Museum\n\nBryggens Museum is a museum located in Bergen, Norway.\n\nDuring 1955, parts of the historic district of Bryggen were ravaged by a fire. During subsequent archaeological excavations a number of objects were uncovered, providing an insight into commerce, shipping, handicrafts and everyday life during the Medieval Period. Many of these artifacts now form the basis of the modern museum and are permanently exhibited. Additionally, the museum also has changing exhibits.\n\nBryggens Museum was established during 1976. The architect behind the design work was Øivind Maurseth, who also designed the nearby Radisson SAS Hotel. Archeologist Asbjørn Herteig was the first curator at the Bryggen Museum. Bryggens Museum has been part of Bergen City Museum since 2005.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2093446", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093446", "title": "Cannonball Baker Sea-To-Shining-Sea Memorial Trophy Dash", "text": "Cannonball Baker Sea-To-Shining-Sea Memorial Trophy Dash\n\nThe Cannonball Baker Sea-To-Shining-Sea Memorial Trophy Dash, widely known as the Cannonball Baker or Cannonball Run, was an unofficial, unsanctioned automobile race run five times in the 1970s from New York City and Darien, Connecticut, on the East Coast of the United States to the Portofino Inn in Redondo Beach, California. The Cannonball Run races have additionally inspired numerous contemporary efforts by independent teams to set the record time for the route, known as the Cannonball Run Challenge. \n\nConceived by car magazine writer and auto racer Brock Yates and fellow \"Car and Driver\" editor Steve Smith, the first run was not a competitive race as only one team was running. The run was intended both as a celebration of the United States Interstate Highway System and as a protest against strict traffic laws coming into effect at the time. Another motivation was the fun involved, which showed in the tongue-in-cheek reports in \"Car and Driver\" and other auto publications worldwide. The initial cross-country run was made by Yates; his son, Brock Yates, Jr.; Steve Smith; and friend Jim Williams beginning on May 3, 1971, in a 1971 Dodge Custom Sportsman van called the \"Moon Trash II.\"\n\nThe race was run four more times: November 15, 1971; November 13, 1972; April 23, 1975; and April 1, 1979.\n\n\"Car and Driver\" magazine detailed the November 1971 running in its March 1972 issue. That article was reprinted to represent the 1970s on the magazine's 50th anniversary in 2005. A remarkable effort was made by American racing legend Dan Gurney, winner of the 1967 24 hours of Le Mans. He won the second Cannonball in a Ferrari Daytona. Gurney said, \"At no time did we exceed .\" He and Brock Yates as co-driver took 35 hours and 54 minutes to travel at an average of approximately while collecting one fine. Snow in the Rocky Mountains slowed them down considerably.\n\nIn 1972 the team of Steve \"Yogi\" Behr, Bill Canfield, and Fred Olds won in a Cadillac Coupe deVille, the first American car to win a Cannonball.\n\nOn April 23–25, 1975, Jack May and Rick Cline drove a Ferrari Dino (05984) from the Red Ball Garage in New York City in a world record time of 35 hours and 53 minutes, averaging .\n\nThe record for official Cannonballs is 32 hours and 51 minutes (about ), set in the final run from Darien, Connecticut, to Los Angeles by Dave Heinz and Dave Yarborough in a Jaguar XJS in April 1979.\n\nAfter the original Cannonball races, \"Car and Driver\" sponsored legitimate closed-course tours, the One Lap of America. Outlaw successors in the United States, Europe, and Australia continue to use the Cannonball name without Yates's approval.\n\nThe object of the Cannonball was to leave the Red Ball Garage on East 31st Street in Manhattan, New York City (1979: Darien, Connecticut, at now-defunct Lock, Stock, and Barrel restaurant, Goodwives Shopping Center), typically after midnight, and drive to the Portofino Inn in Redondo Beach, California, in the shortest time possible. Those were the only rules.\n\nNothing was specified as to the route, type of vehicle, number of drivers or crew, or maximum speed permitted. There was a gentlemen's agreement that the vehicle entered would be driven the entire distance (not transported on another vehicle, not abandoned for an identical second vehicle hidden near the finish, etc.) Speeding citations received along the way were the driver's responsibility and did not disqualify the vehicle, although stopping to receive a ticket increased the vehicle's overall time.\n\nThe Cannonball Run was technically a race in that the team with the fastest time was declared the \"winner\" and the results were announced in order of time. However, times were not taken very seriously, and sheer speed did not guarantee a first-place finish.\n\nThe Cannonball Run gained notoriety after the 1972 run, but the \"Time\" story on the 1975 Jack May-Rick Cline race solidified its place in the public consciousness. To the surprise of many, the hilarious reports in \"Car and Driver\" were warmly received by press and public alike rather than condemned for the race's recklessness.\n\nIn his \"Cannonball!\" memoir, Yates reports that in 1972 an all-female team of Peggy Niemcek, Judy Stropus, and SCCA racer Donna Mae Mims (\"The Pink Lady\") suffered a crash near El Paso, Texas, resulting in a DNF (Did Not Finish). Mims explains that their Cadillac stretch limousine veered off the road and rolled over after the driver fell asleep at the wheel. Although the car was destroyed and she suffered a broken arm, no other vehicles were involved in the crash. This was the only serious accident in the official Cannonball races.\n\nYates began working on a screenplay to be entitled \"Coast to Coast\" but was scooped by two \"unofficial\" films in 1976, \"Cannonball\" and \"The Gumball Rally\". Eventually, an \"official\" Cannonball Run film was made, \"The Cannonball Run\" starring Burt Reynolds, Roger Moore and Dom DeLuise with Yates in a cameo appearance. Two sequels, \"Cannonball Run II\" and \"Speed Zone\", also known as \"Cannonball Fever,\" followed. A later USA Network television program, \"Cannonball Run 2001\", was given official approval to use the name.\n\nAfter the last Cannonball, Rick Doherty, a veteran of the 1975 and 1979 races, organized a successor, the U.S. Express (1980-1983). The 1980 U.S. Express ran from Brooklyn, New York, to the beach in Santa Monica. Doherty won the first U.S. Express with co-driver and famous game designer Will Wright at the wheel of a Mazda RX-7. Their time was 33 hours, 9 minutes.\n\nIn 1981 the U.S. Express ran from Long Island, New York, to Emeryville, California, which borders Oakland at the east end of the San Francisco–Oakland Bay Bridge). Interstate 80 was largely the route of choice. The winning team in 1981 was the first-time Express team of David Morse and Steve Clausman driving Morse's gray Porsche 928. One unique road hazard in the 1981 run was an early snowfall that closed the Donner Pass for several hours to vehicles without chains just as the U.S. Express cars approached. The Porsche 928, which carried special plastic chains, was able to proceed. Others had to wait for the pass to open. The Morse-Clausman team competed again the next two years. In 1982 (also to Emeryville), they endured several memorable police stops. In the final U.S. Express in 1983 to Newport Beach, California, they placed second.\n\nAlthough longer than the Cannonball, the fastest time recorded for the U.S. Express was 32 hours 7 minutes in the 1983 race, 44 minutes faster than the fastest Cannonball, and the \"official\" cross-country record until it was broken in 2006 by Alex Roy and David Maher in 31 hours 4 minutes.\n\nDecades after the last official Cannonball in 1979, issues raised and revival possibilities interested some motorists. Yates recalled declining offers to revive the concept because it was unworkable. His reasons included: increased police activity, increased legal liabilities for any organizer, increased year-round traffic, and expanding urban areas. He also warned of the obvious dangers of a race on public roads.\n\nThe Gumball 3000 gained publicity in the early 2000s as a similar event, sometimes held on coast-to-coast U.S. routes, but paced over a route several times as long and with no time-based winner.\n\nThe unofficial transcontinental record, known as the Cannonball Run Challenge, has been broken numerous times since the last official Cannonball Trophy Dash. \n\nThe C2C Express was an organized event that was created by Ben Wilson of New Zealand and Eric Propst of Michigan. The event was intended to be limited to pre 1980 automobiles that cost under $3000. This was intended to keep the cost affordable and In the spirit of the original runs of the 1970s. The event spanned from 2015–2019. The run Ran from the traditional Cannonball Route of Redball Garage in Manhattan to The Portofino Inn at Redondo beach California. The original event only had 3 competitors in which Wilson won in his Cadillac with a time of just under 40 hours. Over the next 3 years the event grew to the point that the final coast to coast run planned ballooned to over 40 entrants. The size of the event gave Wilson and Propst the idea to run their final coast to coast event from Darien, Connecticut to Portofino Inn located in Los Angeles. Darien to Portofino was the same route run as the 1979 Cannonball and became a 40-year anniversary tribute to the event. Over 40 teams registered for the event, 33 competed and 24 finished. Amongst the final event was a team of police officers in a 49 Pontiac, an ambulance driven by John Ficarra, a Lexus driven by record holder Ed Bolian, a vintage Monte Carlo piloted by current record holders Doug Tabbut & Arne Toman. Wilson and Propst both competed as well, Wilson drove a Ford Van and Propst a Crown Victoria. The winning time was 31:47.\n\nOn September 15, 2019, the Cannonball route event record of 32:05 set by Ed Bolian in 2015, was broken during the 2019 running of the C2C Express. Fred Ashmore Jr of Hancock, Maine, and Travis Hilton of College Station, Texas with Arthur Ashmore of Lamoine, Maine, set a new Cannonball Route event record of 31:47. Using the longer 1979 Cannonball Route, (from Darien to the Portofino Marina) the team was able to cover the 2872 miles in their period-accurate, minimally equipped 1979 Mustang. This made them the second team to ever eclipse the 32:07 benchmark on the Cannonball route in an event over 36 years.\n\n+ indicates winners<br> <nowiki>*</nowiki> indicates overall record\n\n"}
{"id": "2093450", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093450", "title": "The Blood Ring", "text": "The Blood Ring\n\n\"The Blood Ring\" is the 7th pulp magazine story to feature The Avenger. Written by Paul Ernst, it was published in the March 1, 1940 issue of \"The Avenger\" magazine. This novel was re-published under its original title by Paperback Library on November 1, 1972.\n\nEgyptian artifacts intended for the Braintree Museum in Washington, D.C. are stolen. Mysterious figures from ancient Egypt are sighted at night, people are murdered, a mummy speaks and walks, people have terrible headaches and seem to be taken over by their pre-incarnations as ancient Egyptians. The \"Blood Ring\" is set with a pink cornelian stone that is made blood red and filled with power if it is dipped in human blood every 48 hours.\n\nNellie Gray is prominent on the list of intended sacrifices, and Smitty, rescuing her at one point, Samson-like, pulls down a reproduction Egyptian temple in the museum. Josh guards the Egyptian exhibit at night after a guard is killed and another quits; realistically nervous, he displays none of the typical feet-shuffling eye-rolling mannerisms often found in the pulps of this time.\n\nBenson's scientific sleuthing reveals that Egyptian symbolism, drugs, hypnosis, and technology were used by the villain as part of a blackmail scheme. Typically, Benson turns the villain and his gang against one another, and tricks them into dying in their own death trap.\n\n"}
{"id": "2093456", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093456", "title": "Apollonius of Tralles", "text": "Apollonius of Tralles\n\nApollonius of Tralles () (in Caria) was a Greek sculptor who flourished in the 2nd century BCE. With his brother Tauriscus, he executed the marble group known as the Farnese Bull, representing Zethus and Amphion tying the revengeful Dirce to the tail of a wild bull.\n"}
{"id": "2093459", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093459", "title": "National Louis University", "text": "National Louis University\n\nNational Louis University (NLU) is a private university with its main campus in Chicago, Illinois. NLU also has locations near Chicago as well as in Tampa, Florida. Many courses and programs are also offered fully or partially online. Since its founding in 1886, NLU has played a historic role in education, when it helped found the National Kindergarten Movement, helped found the National Parent Teacher Association (PTA), and promoted the importance of academic and professional training in early childhood education theory and practice.\n\nNational Louis University (NLU) began in 1886, when Elizabeth Harrison founded the school to train \"Kindergarteners\", young women teachers who began the early childhood education movement. The school's requirements became a model for education colleges nationwide. \nIn 1893, the university published Harrison's book, \"The Kindergarten as an Influence in Modern Civilization\", in which she explained, \"how to teach the child from the beginning of his existence that all things are connected [and] how to lead him to this vital truth from his own observation . . ..\" \n\nThe university's name was changed to the Chicago Kindergarten Training School (1887), Chicago Kindergarten College (1893), the National Kindergarten and Elementary College (1912) and then the National College of Education (1930). The \"National\" part of the university's name came about when the school became the professional school of the National Kindergarten Association. The university championed the concept of kindergarten and early education teaching in America and was one of the first teachers' colleges in the country to offer a four-year program culminating in the bachelor of education degree.\n\nIn 1913 the National Kindergarten and Elementary College campus moved to 2944 South Michigan Avenue. In 1918 Edna Dean Baker became president. The College moved to Evanston, Illinois in 1926.\n\nIn the 1920s, the university partnered with Nobel Peace Prize recipient Jane Addams to provide educational opportunities to the largely poor, immigrant population served by Hull House. In 1954, the university's graduate school was accredited to offer masters and doctorate level degrees. The university organized its general liberal arts offerings into the College of Arts and Sciences in 1982, and began its business and management school in 1989, offering both bachelors and master of business administration degrees.\n\nIn 1990, National Louis united the name of National College of Education with that of trustee and benefactor Michael W. Louis, the son of Henrietta Johnson Louis. Louis’ significant gift spearheaded the transition from college to university and enabled the university to greatly expand its programs. NLU encompassed three colleges — National College of Education, the College of Arts and Sciences and the College of Management and Business. It offers 60 academic programs, with degrees extending to the doctoral level. In 1999, the historic 22-story Peoples Gas Building at 122 S. Michigan Avenue in Chicago's Downtown, built in 1910, became the flagship location of NLU. Designed by Daniel Burnham, the university's new home housed faculty and administrative offices, a library, classrooms and computer labs.\n\nIn 2006, the university closed its former main site, which had of land, with about 66% in the City of Wilmette and the remainder in Evanston. This site was replaced by its current location in Skokie. In 2011, the university became the first in the United States to participate in a Groupon discount on course registration fees when a three-credit graduate-level course was offered for a 60-percent discount on the usual $2,232 fee. \n\nFrom 2011 to 2013, the university reduced its number of full-time faculty to half through a combination of early retirements and lay-offs. On April 18, 2013, the American Association of University Professors released a report saying that the university \"had no acceptable financial or educational justification for either the layoffs or a related reorganization leading to the closure of four academic departments and 14 academic programs.\". The university's president, Nivine Megahed, said the university \" had been \"facing serious financial pressures\" and the cuts \" enabled the university to stabilize a multiyear decline. \". On June 15, 2013, the American Association of University Professors censured National Louis for violating the AAUP standards of academic freedom and tenure. \n\nThe College of Arts and Sciences and the College of Management and Business were combined in 2014 into the College of Professional Studies and Advancement, with the programs organized in the School of Health and Human Services, the School of Social and Behavioral Sciences, and the School of Business and Management. In 2018, National Louis University acquired the assets of Kendall College, transferring its programs in general education, early childhood education, business, hospitality management, culinary arts, and baking & pastry, and building out entirely new facilities for the school in a newly acquired space at 18 S. Michigan Ave. In the summer of 2019, NLU took on the former students and hired former professors from now-defunct Argosy University, a for-profit institution that was abruptly forced to close due to the discontinuation of federal financial aid. The Argosy students were left without a way to continue their education until the possibility arose for them to transfer to NLU, which allowed them to pick up where they left off with the same classmates and professors. This also included the Illinois School of Professional Psychology's doctoral students in Clinical Psychology, who were able to complete their graduate degrees at NLU.\n\nThe university consists of four distinct colleges: The School of Professional Studies and Advancement, Kendall College of Culinary Arts and Hospitality Management, The national College of Education and The Undergraduate College.\n\nThe Undergraduate College at National Louis University is for high school graduates to receive an education for a reduced tuition. These graduates are able to choose between any of the University's undergraduate degree options. In order to make these classes easily accessible, classes are taught face-to-face and online.\n\nNational Louis University offers the Professional Assistance Center for Education (P.A.C.E.) program, which is post-secondary and helps young adults with developmental disabilities acclimate to the world around them. Some of the services they provide are employment preparation, independent living skills, and social development.\n\nIn October 2014, National Louis University and College of DuPage signed an agreement for a 3+1 program in the field of Human Services. The 3+1 program allows students to be at College of DuPage for four years, and during their fourth and final year, professors from National Louis University come to the COD campus. This system allows students to receive a bachelor's degree from National Louis at a discounted tuition rate. Students can work on an Associates of Applied Science Human Services Generalist or an Associates of Applied Science in Addictions Counseling.\n\nIn August 2018, National Louis University received approval from the Higher Learning Commission (HLC) and the U.S. Department of Education to transfer Kendall College Culinary Arts and Hospitality Management programs and other assets from Laureate Education, Inc.\n\nNational-Louis University is ranked No. 195-258 in Best Education Schools. \nIn 2019, \"U.S. News & World Report\" ranked National Louis University:\n\nThe university owns and occupies the second through sixth floors of the downtown Chicago Peoples Gas Building on Michigan Avenue in the Historic Michigan Boulevard District, across the street from the Art Institute of Chicago. It was in borrowed rooms in the then fledgling Art Institute (in its earlier home on Michigan Avenue at Van Buren) that the university held its first classes.\n\nIn December 2018 National Louis University purchase another building known as The Gage Building, at 18 S. Michigan Ave. Construction began in 2019 to create the new home of Kendall College's culinary arts and hospitality management programs.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2093466", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093466", "title": "Harthacnut I of Denmark", "text": "Harthacnut I of Denmark\n\nHarthacnut or Cnut I () (born c. 880) was a semi-legendary King of Denmark. The old norse story \"Ragnarssona þáttr\" makes Harthacnut son of the semi-mythic viking chieftain Sigurd Snake-in-the-Eye, himself one of the sons of the legendary Ragnar Lodbrok. The saga in turn makes Harthacnut the father of the historical king, Gorm. It has been suggested he is to be identified with the Hardegon of \"Northmannia\" whose early-10th century conquest of Denmark was related by Adam of Bremen.\n\nThe saga \"Ragnarssona þáttr\" relates the acts of the sons of Ragnar Lodbrok, and proceeds to link them genealogically to the later rulers of the Scandinavian kingdoms. For Denmark, it relates that by Blaeja, the daughter of King Ælla of Northumbria, Sigurd Snake-in-the-Eye became father of Harthacnut (\"Hörða-Knútr\"). Harthacnut is said to have been his father's successor in Zealand, Scania and Halland, but not the break-away Viken, and he was father of Gorm. Scholarly opinion is divided as to the degree to which the material found in such heroic sources is to be taken as authentic history and genealogy.\n\nTwo possible references to Harthacnut appear in the work of clergyman Adam of Bremen, who came from Germany to record the history of the Archbishops of Bremen (\"Gesta Hammaburgensis ecclesiae pontificum\"), partly based on information from Gorm's descendant, Sweyn II of Denmark. Adam states that a king Helge was deposed and Denmark was conquered by Olof the Brash who came from Sweden (Sueonia). Along with two of his sons, Gyrd and Gnupa, Olof took the realm \"by force of arms,\" and they ruled it together, thus founding the House of Olaf in Denmark. Adam reports that they were followed by a Sigtrygg. That Sigtrygg was the son of Gnupa by a Danish noblewoman named Asfrid, is shown on two runestones near Schleswig, erected by his mother after his death.\n\nAdam then relates that after Sigtrygg reigned a short time, during the tenure of Archbishop Hoger of Bremen (909–915/917), Hardegon, son of Sweyn, came from \"Northmannia\" the \"land of the Northmen,\" by which he may have meant Norway, Normandy, which had recently been colonized by Danish Vikings, or even northern Jutland. Hardegon immediately deposed the young king Sigtrygg, and then ruled unopposed for approximately thirty years. Hardegon is often equated with the \"Harthacnut\" of legend, but some historians, such as Lis Jacobsen, instead have concluded that \"Hardegon\" is distinct.\n\nAdam later refers to an attack on Denmark by Henry I of Germany, naming the defending king as \"Hardecnudth Vurm\" in some manuscripts,\"filius Hardecnudth Vurm\" in others. Historians generally agree that \"Vurm\" (English: \"worm\" or \"serpent\") is a German rendering of the Danish name Gorm, and this leads to alternative interpretations, that this is reference to Gorm, son (\"filius\") of Harthacnut, or that it is a double-name indicating that Harthacnut and Gorm were the same person. The Saxon chronicles of Widukind of Corvey reports the defeat and forced baptism of the Danish king \"Chnuba\" (Gnupa), in 934 at the hands of German king Henry. Likewise, Olav Tryggvasson's Saga tells of Gnupa's defeat by Gorm the Old. Some historians (e.g. Storm) have taken these as indications that Sigtrygg's father Gnupa still ruled at least part of Denmark much later than credited by Adam of Bremen, and his dynasty was only displaced by Harthacnut's son, Gorm.\n\nIn the late and legend-influenced \"Gesta Danorum\" of Saxo Grammaticus, Harthacnut appears as Knut. He is described as a son of Erik, a descendant of Ragnar Lodbrok, by Gudorm, the granddaughter of Harald Klak. In his version of the tale, Harthacnut is raised by Ennignup (suggested to be Saxo's rendition of Gnupa), but never accepts Christianity.\n\nIn the Silverdale Hoard is a silver coin impressed with the name \"Airdeconut\" an Anglicized variant of Harthacnut. The hoard dates to the early 10th century, but the style is similar to coins of other viking kings of Northumbria. Thus there is no reason to suggest this coin relates to a king Harthacnut of Denmark rather than an otherwise unknown Northumbrian viking. However, some have suggested that Northumbria may be the Northmannia from which Adam's Danish conqueror Hardegon came.\n"}
{"id": "2093472", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093472", "title": "Resident Evil Survivor", "text": "Resident Evil Survivor\n\nResident Evil Survivor is a light gun shooter video game developed by Tose and published by Capcom. It was released on the PlayStation in Japan on January 27, 2000, in Europe on March 31, 2000 and in North America on August 30, 2000. It is a spin-off to the \"Resident Evil\" video game series. A Microsoft Windows version was released only in China and Taiwan on September 7, 2002.\n\nAs the first release of the \"Gun Survivor\" series, this game was a major difference from the main \"Resident Evil\" series, substituting the third-person perspective of the previous games to a first-person view. The Japanese and European versions of the game were compatible with Namco's GunCon/G-Con 45 light gun, making it one of the first off-rail light gun games, whereas light-gun compatibility was removed from the North American release due to shooting games being partly blamed for the motivation of the then-recent Columbine High School massacre.\n\nThe player takes control of an amnesiac protagonist, struggling desperately against overwhelming odds to stay alive and uncover his identity. \"Survivor's\" gameplay is a combination of first-person shooter and arcade-style light gun game. The player views the environment from the perspective of the character (first person view) and moves the character through the environment with the controller. At the same time, if the player wishes to attack an enemy or destroy an object, they press a button which allows them to control a crosshair on the screen. This crosshair can be moved to any location within the main character's line of sight. When using a light gun, players move around by shooting off screen to move and the side buttons to turn, and point at the screen to shoot enemies.\n\nThe game borrows its enemies from \"Resident Evil 2\", featuring the zombie models from that game, as well as creatures such as Lickers, the Ivy plants, Moth Giants and Tyrants. In addition, \"Survivor\" also reintroduces the original Hunters from the first \"Resident Evil\" and features two new enemies in the form of the Umbrella Trashsweeper unit – soldiers armed with machine guns – and the Hypnos T-Type, a new Tyrant model that evolves into different forms.\nThe player's arsenal consists almost entirely of pistols, such as the Glock 17 and the CZ75 with unlimited ammo. As the protagonist progresses through the game, the player receives larger weapons to aid in defending against even more dangerous opposition while they make their way through Umbrella's ruined city and shadowy research labs.\nThe game features branching paths that allow the player to determine how the story will unfold and whom they will meet along the way.\n\nThe game takes place after the missile explosion that wiped out the contaminated Raccoon City. Not long after this incident, a helicopter crashes on the outskirts of Umbrella Corporation's private township, located on Sheena Island. The pilot escapes the burning wreckage only to find himself fighting a battle against the living dead, with no memory of his identity or his reasons for being there.\n\nDuring his quest, he comes across a man named Andy Holland, who knows him as Vincent Goldman, the man said to be responsible for the outbreak of T-virus in the island. Due to his amnesia, he assumes this as a fact. Moments after he gets out of the city, \"Vincent\" comes across Umbrella's facility, where he meets Lott and Lily Klein, two siblings whose parents used to work for Umbrella. They misjudge him because they were made to believe that Umbrella stands for the common good of all people. The two kids run away from him during their encounter, as \"Vincent\" follows the children outside the facility, through the canal system, and eventually to their house. He finds Lily in the house and learns from her that Lott has gone to a nearby factory alone to find a way off the island.\n\nUpon learning this, \"Vincent\" tells Lily to stay and take refuge until he comes back with Lott. He finds his way to the place and, after encountering many monsters, successfully infiltrates the Umbrella research facility just in time to save Lott from a Hunter. \"Vincent\" then learns from Lott that he is, in fact, Ark Thompson, that he was sent to Sheena Island by Leon S. Kennedy, and that Lott knew who Vincent Goldman really was. Due to his knowledge, Vincent later became a vehement enemy of Ark. However, upon this realization, the facility suddenly activates a self-destruct system that will obliterate the island within 10 minutes. Lott tells Ark that within the facility, there is a railway station that runs underground. Ark tells Lott to go ahead to the station first and regroup there.\n\nHowever, along his way to the station, Ark encounters the real Vincent and the Hypnos T-type Tyrant. Much to his surprise, the Umbrella executive is killed by the new bio-organic weapon, which then turns its attention to Ark, who manages to hold it off long enough to make a getaway. Ark reaches the railway station and sees Lott and Lily, safe and waiting for him. Using the railway station, they are able to arrive at a landing zone, where a helicopter waits. But on their way to safety, the Hypnos Tyrant shows up again, in a more mutated form. Ark manages to hold off the beast before joining the children in the helicopter. Persistent on its pursue, the Tyrant leaps onto the helicopter, and Ark kills it firing one of the helicopter's missiles. As the sun rises, Ark, Lily, and Lott flee from Sheena Island together safely, just as the island's complex self-destructs.\n\n\"Resident Evil Survivor\" received mostly unfavorable reviews. Jon Thompson (AllGame) gave the game a negative review. Thompson noted that the biggest critique of the game was that it was made to be played with a light gun, which the American version did not support. He continued that even the Japanese version of the game which did include it, \"really wasn't any better. Shooters are supposed to be quick, raw and visceral, the total opposite of what Resident Evil is, for better or worse. This shooting game opts to stick with the slow pacing of the rest of the series, and the result is a gun game with no gun that absolutely crawls along.\" Thompson critiqued the graphics as being \"not very attractive\" and \"very pixelated close-up\" \"Edge\" praised the well-rendered 3D environments, but criticized the long loading screens between opening and closing doors. The magazine concluded that \"Survivor\" is best suited to the rental market, describing it as \"more of a cash-in than a knockout.\"\n\nEric Bratcher reviewed the PlayStation version of the game for \"Next Generation\", rating it one star out of five, and stated that \"The \"RE\" universe could definitely inspire a great gun game. But with bad technology, unforgivable control limitations, and an uncanny lack of fun, this non-gun game definitely isn't it.\"\n\nThe \"Gun Survivor\" series was followed by three sequels, which were released for the PlayStation 2 and utilised the G-Con 2 peripheral. \"\" was released for the PlayStation 2 in 2002, based on the characters and enemies of \"\". \"Dino Stalker\", a spin-off of the \"Dino Crisis\" series, was also released in 2002. A fourth game, \"\", was released in 2003.\n\n"}
{"id": "2093477", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093477", "title": "Elizabeth Harrison Walker", "text": "Elizabeth Harrison Walker\n\nElizabeth Harrison (February 21, 1897 in Indianapolis, Indiana – December 25, 1955 in New York City) was the third of three surviving children of U.S. President Benjamin Harrison, and the only child of his second wife, Mary Scott Lord Dimmick.\n\nBorn in Indiana in 1897, she graduated from New York University School of Law in 1919 and was admitted to the bar in Indiana and New York.\n\nOn April 6, 1921, Elizabeth Harrison married James Blaine Walker (January 20, 1889 – January 15, 1978), a grandnephew of Secretary of State James G. Blaine, a member of her father's cabinet. Their daughter, Jane Harrison Walker, married Newell Garfield, a grandson of Interior Secretary James Rudolph Garfield, and great-grandson of President James Garfield.\n\nElizabeth Harrison was founder and publisher of \"Cues on the News\", an investment newsletter for women.\n\nShe was the last surviving child of Benjamin Harrison.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2093486", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093486", "title": "Resident Evil Outbreak", "text": "Resident Evil Outbreak\n\nResident Evil Outbreak is a survival horror video game with online playability for the PlayStation 2. Initially released in 2003, it was developed by Capcom Production Studio 1 and was the first entry in the \"Resident Evil\" video game series to feature cooperative gameplay and online multiplayer support, although online support was not available for the PAL versions of the game.\n\n\"Outbreak\" was produced by Tsuyoshi Tanaka, and depicts a series of episodic storylines in the fictional location Raccoon City. It was set during the same general time period as \"Resident Evil 2\" and \"\". \"Outbreak\" was followed by a standalone expansion entitled \"Resident Evil Outbreak File #2\". The game was praised for the graphics, fun-factor, and multiplayer but criticized for the lack of voice chat.\n\nThe controls and gameplay are similar to the \"Resident Evil\" remake, which was exclusive to the Nintendo Gamecube, with quite a few adjustments. The player chooses a scenario, difficulty level, and a character. The difficulty level is tied to what enemies and items the player encounters as they progress through the scenario. The game has five scenarios, each of which has an event checklist consisting of special actions that the player must perform to reach 100% completion. Upon doing so the player will unlock \"Infinity Mode\", in which all the player's weapons never break or run out of ammunition.\n\nEach scenario also has \"SP\" items. These are invisible items hidden throughout the level and are randomly generated on two paths. There are 20 scenario items for each scenario, and twenty items specific to each character hidden across the five scenarios. If acquired, these items unlock new costumes and the option to listen to their ad-libs.\n\nPlayers were able to connect to the internet servers using a broadband connection and a network adapter. Account registration and login were required. Once players connected and logged in, they would choose between Free Mode and Scenario Mode. Free Mode took place in a lobby and allowed players to create their own games, scenarios, and difficulty level. Scenario Mode would choose the scenario and players automatically. When a player first started online, they would begin on the \"Outbreak\" scenario and progress from there. If the player wished to stop playing, they could save their data and restart from the scenario they were up to at the time. If the player had beaten a scenario, they acquired a star next to their name.\n\nCapcom shut down the American servers for \"Outbreak\" on December 31, 2007, and the Japanese servers on June 30, 2011, ending official online capabilities. In 2014, private servers became available to Japanese editions of \"Resident Evil Outbreak\".\n\nThe beginning of \"Outbreak\" is set a couple of days after the initial outbreak of the T-virus in Raccoon City, moments before the crisis further escalates into complete chaos. The game starts with the eight characters in J's Bar, who are unaware of what is happening until a lone zombie wanders into the bar and attacks one of the employees named Will. After that, the characters must make it through the city. The game ends in the final moments of the same incident, with the player attempting to escape Raccoon City before the U.S. government launches a missile strike to eliminate the threat posed by the G-virus. The player controls one of eight characters, in order: Kevin Ryman, Mark Wilkins, Jim Chapman, George Hamilton, David King, Alyssa Ashcroft, Yoko Suzuki, and Cindy Lennox, along with numerous supporting characters who can be selected in their place. Gameplay events transpire across various regions of Raccoon City and span over a period of several days.\n\nThere are five individual scenarios in this game, which are not set in chronological order. The first, \"Outbreak\", takes place at the beginning of the outbreak, as the police prepare to destroy the zombie horde using explosives. \"Below Freezing Point\" deals with the events in the former underground laboratory of Umbrella before the events of \"Resident Evil 2\", where a rogue virologist, Monica, attempts to steal bio-weapons research and deal with her former co-worker, Yoko Suzuki. \"The Hive\" involves the survivors taking refuge in the Raccoon General Hospital, which is also featured in \"\", while it is under assault from a colony of infected leeches. \"Hellfire\", set the same day as \"Outbreak\", involves a group of survivors fleeing into the Apple Inn hotel that turns out to be on fire and swarming with lickers. The final scenario, \"Decisions, Decisions\", regards the survivors' search for a cure to the T-virus, which sends them to Raccoon City University, where the eight different characters must wisely choose a decision to survive the puzzling secrets hidden in the university; they must then escape the city before it is destroyed.\n\nAccording to an interview with producer Noritaka Funamizu, the first concept of \"Biohazard Outbreak\", as it was known originally, was known before the release of \"Resident Evil 2\" in 1998. With growing interest in the concept of network gaming over consoles, Shinji Mikami, the director of the first \"Resident Evil\", suggested to Funamizu that he should have a try. Early on in the design, Funamizu made a small multi-player mini-game in which the player must survive the longest time possible; the team decided to remove it due to its failure to encourage teamwork—players would instinctively run away from the horde and be slaughtered rather than help one another to ensure their own survival. They decided that what made \"Resident Evil\" scary was its lack of multiplayer, forcing gamers to play \"on their own\". The team then chose that the game would follow its own story like the other games in the series, but keep the option for multi-player. The game development was later put on hold.\n\nPrior to 2002, Capcom decided to revive development of the game, based on the research gathered from the first attempt. Production Studio 1 began its development of the game, as opposed to Mikami's Studio 4. In February 2002, a Sony press conference regarding the PlayStation 2 revealed the game—previously unheard-of by the public, it had a working title of \"Biohazard Online\". This led to confusion amongst the audience before Capcom released a statement confirming its existence. \"Resident Evil Outbreak\" was a part of an initiative from Capcom's Production Studio 1 to develop three network focused games on the PlayStation 2. The other games were \"Auto Modellista\" and \"Monster Hunter\". Capcom's goal was to have at least one of the games reach a million sales. Both \"Monster Hunter\" and \"Resident Evil Outbreak\" eventually reached this goal.\n\nThe game made an appearance at Sony's conference on May 21 at E 2002, with a video showcasing real-time 3D backgrounds (as opposed to pre-rendered); revealing four of the characters and demonstrating the ad-lib system and character communication. The \"ad-lib system\" was chosen over conventional microphone chat because the development team argued that it would ruin the atmosphere. Instead, limited chat options were used for conversation between users; a player would walk up to another and deliver a line from a particular conversational category (e.g. \"help\" and \"go\" categories). No solid release date was given at that time.\n\nLater that year the game was renamed \"Biohazard Network\". By October, eighteen different scenarios were in development, with even more in the concept phase. In November, Capcom released various pieces of media, showing eight playable characters and familiar-scenarios such as \"Flashback\". The occupations of the characters were also given.\n\nIn January 2003, further information was provided, mostly regarding interactive NPCs (non-player characters). Capcom boasted such actions as enemy NPCs who would attack the player and other ones that would run away when approached. Screenshots of \"Flashback\", \"Underbelly\", \"The Hive\" and other scenarios were released.\n\nBy May 2003, the game's title had been changed. This time, it had been changed to \"Biohazard Outbreak\" (\"Resident Evil Outbreak\" outside Japan), and the number of scenarios was reduced to the five scenarios. Another five scenarios did not make the initial cut, although they were complete enough to be featured in the E3 2002 trailer, and were developed into the sequel \"Resident Evil Outbreak File #2\". In September, doubts were raised as to \"Outbreak\"s online game-play in Europe, but Capcom was adamant that it would at least try to find a way to solve the problem in time for release.\n\nThe European release was heavily delayed, finally released in September 2004—nine months after Japan and the United States saw its release. Back in March Capcom had given in on securing \"Outbreak\"s network due to the numerous problems faced with establishing a network in a region simultaneously for dozens of languages, and securing service providers; as well as the usual PAL/NTSC differential.\n\n\"Outbreak\" received a \"C+\" from \"1UP.com\" in their review. The staff referred to it as \"another typical entry in the RE canon\", and as a \"competent game\" with \"controls [that] are actually functional and somewhat intuitive\". However, they cited a number of problems with the game, notably Capcom's choice of not installing voice chat in favor of the ad-lib system. They found the game's five scenarios to be short, and AI partners to be \"chock-full of repetitive and annoying sound bytes\".\n\n\"Eurogamer\" was disappointed with Capcom's failure to establish online support for the European market at a time when the PlayStation 2's online community was threatened with the expected rise in the Xbox's popularity with the upcoming release of \"Halo 2\", stating that an Outbreak was \"designed from the ground up to be a co-operative multiplayer game for four players\" and questioning if a network-less game would be of interest to players. Another problem was with the real-time \"START\" menu, which meant that file-reading and item-trading would make the player vulnerable to a random zombie attack, making the game \"[feel] light in the story department\" as a consequence of not becoming immersed in the environment. Long load times for the PAL version was also noted in the review.\n"}
{"id": "2093495", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093495", "title": "Arcadius of Antioch", "text": "Arcadius of Antioch\n\nArcadius of Antioch () was a Greek grammarian who flourished in the 2nd century CE. According to the \"Suda,\" he wrote treatises on orthography and syntax, and an onomasticon (vocabulary), described as \"a wonderful production.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2093498", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093498", "title": "Michael Rostovtzeff", "text": "Michael Rostovtzeff\n\nMikhail Ivanovich Rostovtzeff, or Rostovtsev (; – October 20, 1952) was a Russian historian whose career straddled the 19th and 20th centuries and who produced important works on ancient Roman and Greek history. He was a member of the Russian Academy of Science.\n\nRostovtzeff was the son of a Latin teacher. Upon completing his studies at the universities of Kiev and , Rostovtsev served as an assistant and then as a full Professor of Latin at the 1898–1918. In 1918, following the Russian Revolution, he emigrated first to Sweden, then to England, and finally in 1920 to the United States. There he accepted a chair at the University of Wisconsin–Madison before moving to Yale University in 1925 where he taught until his retirement in 1944. He oversaw all archaeological activities of the latter institution in general and the excavations of Dura-Europos in particular. He is believed to have coined the term \"caravan city\".\n\nWhile working in Russia, Rostovtzeff became an authority on the ancient history of South Russia and Ukraine. He summed up his knowledge on the subject in \"Iranians and Greeks in South Russia\" (1922) and \"Skythien und der Bosporus\" (1925). His most important archaeological findings at Yale were described in \"Dura-Europos and Its Art\" (1938).\n\nGlen Bowersock described Rostovtzeff's views as having been largely formed by the age of thirty, developing mainly only in the quality of execution in later life, and making him \"the last of the nineteenth-century ancient historians\". Rostovtzeff was known as a proud and slightly overpowering man who did not fit in easily. In later life, he suffered from depression.\n\nRostovtzeff was notable for his theories of the cause of the collapse of the Roman Empire which he expounded in detail in his magisterial \"The Social and Economic History of the Roman Empire\" (1926). Scarred by his experience of fleeing from the Russian Revolution, he attributed the collapse of the Roman Empire to an alliance between the rural proletariat and the military in the third century A.D. Despite not being a Marxist himself, Rostovtzeff used terms such as proletariat, bourgeoisie and capitalism freely in his work and the importation of those terms into a description of the ancient world, where they did not necessarily apply, caused criticism.\n\nRostovtzeff's theory was quickly understood as one based on the author's own experiences and equally quickly rejected by the academic community. Bowersock later described the book as \"the marriage of pre-1918 scholarly training and taste with post-1918 personal experience and reflection.\" At the same time, however, the detailed scholarship involved in the production of the work impressed his contemporaries and he was one of the first to merge archaeological evidence with literary sources.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2093510", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093510", "title": "The Dream Team (1989 film)", "text": "The Dream Team (1989 film)\n\nThe Dream Team is a 1989 comedy thriller film directed by Howard Zieff and produced by Christopher W. Knight for Imagine Entertainment and Universal Pictures. It stars Michael Keaton, Christopher Lloyd, Peter Boyle and Stephen Furst as mental-hospital inpatients who are left unsupervised in New York City during a field trip gone awry. Jon Connolly and David Loucka wrote the screenplay.\n\nDr. Jeff Weitzman (Dennis Boutsikaris) is a psychologist working in a sanitarium in New Jersey. His primary patients are Billy, Henry, Jack and Albert. Billy (Keaton) is the most normal of the group and their unofficial leader, though he is a pathological liar with delusions of grandeur and violent tendencies. Henry (Lloyd) is obsessive/compulsive and he has deluded himself into thinking he is one of the doctors at the hospital, often walking around with a clipboard, lab coat and stethoscope. Jack (Boyle) is a former advertising executive who believes he is Jesus Christ. Finally, Albert (Furst) is a man-child who can only communicate using baseball terminology, particularly from former ball player and commentator Phil Rizzuto.\n\nConvinced that his patients need some fresh air and some time away from the sanitarium, Dr. Weitzman persuades the administration to allow him to take them to a baseball game at Yankee Stadium. Unfortunately, he accidentally encounters two crooked cops just as they murder another officer. The doctor then gets knocked unconscious trying to get away and is put in the hospital. The group is now stranded in New York City, forced to cope with a place which is often more bizarre than their sanitarium.\n\nAfter Dr. Weitzman's beating and coma, it is up to the patients to save their doctor from being murdered by the crooked cops. They end up having to both use and overcome their delusions and disorders in order to save the only man who ever tried to help them, with both the police and the killers looking for them. Three revisit scenes from their pasts: Billy (former girlfriend Riley, played by Lorraine Bracco), Henry (his wife & daughter), and Jack (his former employer). As each patient does so individually, they each behave in a sane, clear manner, Henry genuinely missing his family, Billy wishing to pursue a stronger relationship, and Jack appealing to his boss that he and his friends are in trouble (but the boss reports Jack to the police).\n\nUltimately, the patients succeed in turning in the criminals. Their doctor makes a recovery and the patients again attempt a trip to the ballpark, this time with no supervision.\n\n\nThe movie had a mixed reception, with Vincent Canby stating that \"there's nothing dreadfully wrong with \"The Dream Team,\" Howard Zieff's new comedy, except that it's not funny too much of the time. On those occasions when it is funny, the humor less often prompts laughter than mute appreciation of the talents of the principal performers - Michael Keaton, Christopher Lloyd and Peter Boyle.\" Michael Wilmington noted that \"[the film] is so clearly derived from the movie \"One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest\" that you might begin to wonder when Jack Nicholson will show up. [...which] may suggest that \"Dream Team\" is a weak, derivative, somehow disreputable movie, which is somewhat true. If you compare it to its obvious source, it has a coy, flip attitude toward illness, skating over the surface of tragedy, dementia and pain without breaking the ice. The union of four oddballs—rebel-writer, obsessive noodge, religious fanatic and couch potato—is almost too schematic, as if the writers were somehow trying to define '80s dissidence. But even though you can predict virtually everything that happens from the first five minutes on, the director and actors manage to hook you in.\" It currently holds a 54% rating on Rotten Tomatoes.\n\n\"The Dream Team\" debuted at No. 2 at the American box office, where it made $5.7 million at 1,316 theaters, averaging US$4,335 per screen. It opened only one number shy of a competing Paramount film, \"Major League\". It went down from that position in subsequent weeks.\n\n"}
{"id": "2093520", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093520", "title": "Resident Evil 5", "text": "Resident Evil 5\n\nResident Evil 5 is a third-person shooter video game developed and published by Capcom. It is the seventh major installment in the \"Resident Evil\" series, and was announced in 2005—the same year its predecessor \"Resident Evil 4\" was released. \"Resident Evil 5\" was released for the PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360 consoles in March 2009 and for Microsoft Windows in September that year. The plot involves an investigation of a terrorist threat by Bioterrorism Security Assessment Alliance agents Chris Redfield and Sheva Alomar in Kijuju, a fictional region of Africa. Chris learns that he must confront his past in the form of an old enemy, Albert Wesker, and his former partner, Jill Valentine.\n\nThe gameplay of \"Resident Evil 5\" is similar to that of the previous installment, though it is the first in the series designed for two-player cooperative gameplay. It has also been considered to be the first game in the main series to depart from the survival horror genre, with critics saying it bore more resemblance to an action game. Motion capture was used for the cutscenes, and it was the first video game to use a virtual camera system. Several staff members from the original \"Resident Evil\" worked on \"Resident Evil 5\". The PC version was developed by Mercenary Technology.\n\n\"Resident Evil 5\" received a positive reception, despite some criticism for its control scheme. The game received some complaints of racism, though an investigation by the British Board of Film Classification found the complaints were unsubstantiated. \"Resident Evil 5\" was re-released for PlayStation 4 and Xbox One in June 2016. As of December 2019, the original release has sold over 7.6 million units. A special edition of the game and releases on other platforms sold an additional 3.9 million units, bringing the total sales to 11.5 million. It is the best-selling game of the \"Resident Evil\" franchise, and the original version remained the best-selling individual Capcom release until March 2018, when it was outsold by \"\". A sequel, \"Resident Evil 6\", was released in 2012.\n\nIn 2009, five years after the events of \"Resident Evil 4\", Chris Redfield, a member of the fictional Bioterrorism Security Assessment Alliance (BSAA), is dispatched to Kijuju in Africa. He and his new partner Sheva Alomar are tasked with apprehending Ricardo Irving before he can sell a bio-organic weapon (BOW) on the black market. When they arrive, they discover that the locals have been infected by the parasites Las Plagas (those infected are called \"Majini\") and the BSAA Alpha Team have been killed. Chris and Sheva are rescued by BSAA's Delta Team, which includes Sheva's mentor Josh Stone. In Stone's data Chris sees a photograph of Jill Valentine, his old partner, who has been presumed dead after a confrontation with Albert Wesker. Chris, Sheva and Delta Team close in on Irving, but he escapes with the aid of a hooded figure. Irving leaves documents that lead Chris and Sheva to marshy oilfields. This is where Irving's deal is to occur, but they discover that the documents are a diversion. When Chris and Sheva try to regroup with Delta Team, they find the team slaughtered by a BOW; Sheva cannot find Stone among the dead. Determined to learn if Valentine is still alive, Chris does not report to headquarters.\n\nContinuing through the marsh, they find Stone injured but safe and track down Irving's boat with his help. Irving injects himself with a variant of the Las Plagas parasite and mutates into a huge octopus-like beast. Chris and Sheva defeat him, and his dying words lead them to a nearby cave to learn more. The cave is the source of a flower used to create viruses previously used by the Umbrella Corporation, as well as a new strain named Uroboros. Chris and Sheva find evidence that Tricell, the company funding the BSAA, took over a former Umbrella underground laboratory and continued Umbrella's research. In the facility, they discover thousands of capsules holding human test subjects. Although Chris finds that one of the capsules is Valentine's, it is empty. When they leave, they discover that Tricell CEO Excella Gionne has been plotting with Wesker to launch missiles with the Uroboros virus across the globe; it is eventually revealed that Wesker hopes to take a chosen few from the chaos of infection and rule them, creating a new breed of humanity. Chris and Sheva pursue Gionne but are stopped by Wesker and the hooded figure, who is revealed to be a mind-controlled Valentine. Gionne and Wesker escape to a Tricell oil tanker; Chris and Sheva fight Valentine, subduing her and removing the mind-control device before she orders Chris to follow Wesker.\n\nChris and Sheva board the tanker and encounter Gionne, who escapes after dropping a case of syringes; Sheva keeps several. When Chris and Sheva reach the main deck, Wesker announces over the ship's intercom that he has betrayed Gionne and infected her with Uroboros. She mutates into a giant monster, which Chris and Sheva defeat. Valentine radios in, telling Chris and Sheva that Wesker must take precise, regular doses of a virus to maintain his strength and speed; a larger or smaller dose would poison him. Sheva realizes that Gionne's syringes are doses of the drug. Chris and Sheva follow Wesker to a bomber loaded with missiles containing the Uroboros virus, injecting him with the syringes Gionne dropped. Wesker tries to escape on the bomber; Chris and Sheva disable it, making him crash-land in a volcano. Furious‚ Wesker exposes himself to Uroboros and chases Chris and Sheva through the volcano. They fight him, and the weakened Wesker falls into the lava before Chris and Sheva are rescued by a helicopter, which is piloted by Valentine and Stone. As a dying Wesker attempts to drag the helicopter into the volcano, Chris and Sheva fire rocket-propelled grenades at Wesker, killing him. In the game's final cutscene, Chris wonders if the world is worth fighting for. Looking at Sheva and Valentine, he decides to live in a world without fear.\n\n\"Resident Evil 5\" is a third-person shooter with an over-the-shoulder perspective. Players can use several weapons including handguns, shotguns, automatic rifles, sniper rifles, and grenade launchers, as well as melee attacks. Players can make quick 180-degree turns to evade enemies. The game involves boss battles, many of which contain quick time events.\n\nAs in its predecessor \"Resident Evil 4\", players can upgrade weapons with money and treasure collected in-game and heal themselves with herbs, but cannot run and shoot at the same time. New features include infected enemies with guns and grenades, the ability to upgrade weapons at any time from the inventory screen without having to find a merchant, and the equipping of weapons and items in real-time during gameplay. Each player can store nine items. Unlike the previous games, the item size is irrelevant; a herb or a grenade launcher each occupy one space, and four items may be assigned to the D-pad. The game features puzzles, though fewer than previous titles.\n\n\"Resident Evil 5\" is the first game in the \"Resident Evil\" series designed for two-player cooperative gameplay. The player controls Chris, a former member of the fictional Special Tactics and Rescue Service (STARS) and member of the BSAA, and a second player can control Sheva, who is introduced in this game. If a person plays alone, Sheva is controlled by the game's artificial intelligence (AI). When the game has been completed once, there is an option to make Sheva the primary character. Two-player mode is available online or split screen with a second player using the same console. A second player joining a split screen game in progress will make the game reload the last checkpoint (the point at which the game was last saved); the second player joining an online game will have to wait until the first player reaches the next checkpoint, or restarts the previous one, to play. In split-screen mode, one player's viewpoint is presented in the top half of the screen, and the other in the bottom half, but each viewpoint is presented in widescreen format, rather than using the full width of the screen, resulting in unused space to the left and right of the two windows. If one player has critical health, only their partner can resuscitate them, and they will die if their partner cannot reach them. At certain points, players are deliberately separated. Players can trade items during gameplay, although weapons cannot be traded with online players. The game's storyline is linear, and interaction with other characters is mostly limited to cutscenes.\n\nA version of the \"Mercenaries\" minigame, which debuted in \"\", is included in \"Resident Evil 5\". This minigame places the player in an enclosed environment with a time limit. Customized weapons cannot be used and players must search for weapons, ammunition, and time bonuses while fighting a barrage of enemies, to score as many points as possible within the time limit. The minigame multiplayer mode was initially offline only; a release-day patch needed to be downloaded to access the online multiplayer modes. \"Mercenaries\" is unlocked when the game's story mode has been completed.\n\n\"Resident Evil 5\" was developed by Capcom and produced by Jun Takeuchi, who directed \"\" and produced \"\". Keiji Inafune, promotional producer for \"Resident Evil 2\" and executive producer of the PlayStation 2 version of \"Resident Evil 4\", supervised the project. Production began in 2005 and at its peak, over 100 people were working on the project. In February 2007, some members of Capcom's Clover Studio began working on \"Resident Evil 5\" while others were working on \"\", which debuted for the Wii. Yasuhiro Anpo, who worked as a programmer on the original \"Resident Evil\", directed \"Resident Evil 5\". He was one of several staff members who worked on the original game to be involved in \"Resident Evil 5\" development. The game's scenario was written by Haruo Murata and Yoshiaki Hirabayashi, based on a story idea by concept director Kenichi Ueda. Takeuchi announced that the game would retain the gameplay model introduced in \"Resident Evil 4\", with \"thematic tastes\" from both \"Resident Evil 4\" and the original \"Resident Evil\".\n\nWhile previous \"Resident Evil\" games are mainly set at night, the events of \"Resident Evil 5\" occur almost entirely during the day. The decision for this was a combination of the game being set in Africa and advances in hardware improvements which allowed increasingly detailed graphics. On the subject of changes to Valentine and Chris's appearance, production director Yasuhiro Anpo explained that designers tried \"to preserve their image and imagined how they would have changed over the passage of time\". Their new designs retained the character's signature colors; green for Chris and blue for Valentine. Sheva was redesigned several times during production, though all versions tried to emphasize a combination of \"feminine attraction and the strength of a fighting woman\". The Majini were designed to be more violent than the \"Ganado\" enemies in \"Resident Evil 4\".\n\nThe decision for cooperative gameplay was made part-way through development, for a new experience in a \"Resident Evil\" game. Despite initial concern that a second player would dampen the game's tension and horror, it was later realized that this could actually increase such factors where one player had to be rescued. The decision to retain wide-screen proportions in two-player mode was made to avoid having the first player's screen directly on top of the second, which might be distracting, and the restriction on simultaneously moving and shooting was retained to increase player tension by not allowing them to maneuver freely. Takeuchi cited the film \"Black Hawk Down\" as an influence on the setting of \"Resident Evil 5\" and his experience working on \"Lost Planet: Extreme Condition\" as an influence on its development. When questioned as to why the game was not being released on the Wii, which was the most popular gaming console at the time, Takeuchi responded that although that may have been a good decision \"from a business perspective\", the Wii was not the best choice in terms of power and visual quality, concluding that he was happy with the console choices they had made.\n\n\"Resident Evil 5\" runs on version 1.4 of Capcom's MT Framework engine and scenes were recorded by motion capture. It was the first video game to use a virtual camera system, which allowed the developers to see character movements in real time as the motion-capture actors recorded. Actors Reuben Langdon, Karen Dyer and Ken Lally portrayed Chris Redfield, Sheva Alomar and Albert Wesker respectively. Dyer also voiced Sheva, while Chris's voice was performed by Roger Craig Smith. Dyer's background training in circus skills helped her win the role of Sheva, as Capcom were searching for someone who could handle the physical skills her motion capture required. She performed her own stunts, and worked in production on the game for over a year, sometimes working 14 hours a day. All of the human character motions were based on motion capture, while the non-human characters in the game were animated by hand.\n\nKota Suzuki was the game's principal composer and additional music was contributed by Hideki Okugawa, Akihiko Narita and Seiko Kobuchi. The electronic score includes 15 minutes of orchestral music, recorded at the Newman Scoring Stage of 20th Century Fox Studios in Los Angeles with the 103-piece Hollywood Studio Symphony. Other orchestral music and arrangements were by Wataru Hokoyama, who conducted the orchestra. Capcom recorded in Los Angeles because they wanted a Hollywood-style soundtrack to increase the game's cinematic value and global interest. \"Resident Evil 5\" soundtrack features an original theme song, titled \"Pray\", which was composed by Suzuki and sung by Oulimata Niang.\n\nCapcom announced \"Resident Evil 5\" on July 20, 2005, and the company showed a brief trailer for the game at the Electronic Entertainment Expo (E3) in July 2007. The full E3 trailer became available on the Xbox Live Marketplace and the PlayStation Store that same month. A new trailer debuted on Spike TV's \"GameTrailers TV\" in May 2008, and on the GameTrailers website. A playable game demo was released in Japan on December 5, 2008, for the Xbox 360, in North America and Europe for the Xbox 360 on January 26, 2009, and on February 2 for the PlayStation 3. Worldwide downloads of the demo exceeded four million for the two consoles; over 1.8 million were downloaded between January 26 and January 29.\n\nIn January 2009, \"D+PAD Magazine\" reported that \"Resident Evil 5\" would be released with limited-edition Xbox 360 box art; pictures of the limited-edition box claimed that it would allow two to sixteen players to play offline via System Link. Although Capcom said that their \"box art isn't lying\", the company did not provide details. Capcom soon issued another statement that the box-art information was incorrect, and System Link could support only two players. Microsoft released a limited-edition, red Xbox 360 Elite console which was sold with the game. The package included an exclusive \"Resident Evil\" theme for the Xbox 360 Dashboard and a voucher for \"Super Street Fighter II Turbo HD Remix\" from Xbox Live.\n\n\"Resident Evil 5\" was released for PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360 in March 2009, alongside a dedicated Game Space on PlayStation Home. The space, \"Resident Evil 5 \"Studio Lot\"\" (\"Biohazard 5 \"Film Studio\"\" in Japan), had as its theme the in-game location of Kijuju. Its lounge offered \"Resident Evil 5\"-related items for sale, events and full game-launching support. Some areas of the space were available only to owners of \"Resident Evil 5\". A Microsoft Windows version was released in September 2009. This version, using Nvidia's 3D Vision technology through DirectX 10, includes more costumes and a new mode in the Mercenaries minigame. \"Resident Evil 5\" was re-released on Shield Android TV in May 2016, and was re-released on PlayStation 4 and Xbox One the following month, with a physical disc copy following in America that July. It was also released for Nintendo Switch on October 29, 2019.\n\nShortly before the release of \"Resident Evil 5\", Capcom announced that a competitive multiplayer mode called Versus would be available for download in several weeks. Versus became available for download in Europe and North America on April 7, 2009, through the Xbox Live Marketplace and the PlayStation Store. Versus has two online game types: \"Slayers\", a point-based game challenging players to kill Majini, and \"Survivors\", where players hunt each other while dodging and attacking Majini. Both modes can be played by two-player teams. The Microsoft Windows version of \"Resident Evil 5\" originally did not support downloadable content (DLC).\n\nDuring Sony's press conference at the 2009 Tokyo Game Show Capcom announced that a special edition of the game, \"Biohazard 5: Alternative Edition\", would be released in Japan for the PlayStation 3 in the spring of 2010. This edition supports the PlayStation Move accessory and includes a new scenario, \"Lost in Nightmares\", where Chris Redfield and Jill Valentine infiltrate one of Umbrella Corporation co-founder Oswell E. Spencer's estates in 2006. Another special edition of the game, \"Resident Evil 5: Gold Edition\", was released for the Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3 in North America and Europe. \"Gold Edition\" includes \"Lost in Nightmares\" and another campaign-expansion episode, \"Desperate Escape\", where players control Josh Stone and Jill Valentine as they assist Chris and Sheva. The edition also includes the previously released Versus mode, four new costumes and an alternate Mercenaries mode with eight new playable characters, new items and maps. Like \"Alternative Edition\", \"Gold Edition\" supports the PlayStation Move accessory with a patch released on September 14, 2010. The Xbox 360 version of \"Gold Edition\" came in a DVD with a token allowing free download of all DLC, while the PlayStation 3 version had all of the new content on a single Blu-ray disc. On November 5, 2012, \"Resident Evil 5: Gold Edition\" was placed on the PlayStation Network as a free download for PlayStation Plus users during that month.\n\nAs part of the game's conversion to Steamworks, \"Gold Edition\" was released for Microsoft Windows on March 26, 2015. Owners of the game from Steam or as a boxed retail Games for Windows – Live can acquire a free Steamworks copy of the base game and purchase the new \"Gold Edition\" content. The Steamworks version did not allow the use of Nvidia's 3D Vision technology or fan modifications, though Capcom later confirmed a way to work around these issues.\n\n\" Resident Evil 5\" received generally favourable reviews, according to review aggregator Metacritic. Reviewers praised the game's visuals and content. Corey Cohen of \"Official Xbox Magazine\" complimented the game's fast pace, and called the graphics gorgeous. It was praised by Joe Juba and Mark Miller of \"Game Informer\", who said that it had the best graphics of any game to date and that the music and voice acting helped bring the characters to life, and Brian Crecente of \"Kotaku\" said it was one of the most visually stunning games he had ever played. Adam Sessler of \"X-Play\" said the game's graphics were exceptional, and \"Edge\" praised the gameplay as exhilarating and frantic. For IGN, Ryan Geddes wrote that the game had a surprisingly high replay value, and \"GameZone\" Louis Bedigian said the game was \"worth playing through twice in one weekend\".\n\nWhile still giving favorable reviews of the game, several reviewers considered it to be a departure from the survival horror genre, a decision they lamented. Chris Hudak of Game Revolution considered the game to be a \"full-on action blockbuster\", and Brian Crecente said that about halfway through the game it \"dropp[ed] all pretense of being a survival horror title and unmask[ed] itself as an action shooter title\". Kristan Reed of Eurogamer said the game \"morphs what was a survival horror adventure into a survival horror shooter\", and believed that this attempt to appeal to action gamers would upset some of the series' fans.\n\nAspects of the game's control scheme were viewed negatively by critics. James Mielke of 1UP.com criticized several inconsistencies in the game, such as only being able to take cover from enemy fire in very specific areas. Mielke also criticized its controls, saying that aiming was too slow and noting the inability to strafe away from (or quickly jump back from) enemies. Despite the problems he found it was \"still a very fun game\". Kristan Reed also had criticism of some controls, such as the speed at which 180-degree turns were performed and difficulty accessing inventory. Joe Juba said that the inability to move and shoot at the same time seemed more \"like a cheap and artificial way to increase difficulty than a technique to enhance tension.\" While praising some aspects of the AI control of Sheva, Ryan Geddes thought that it also had its annoyances, such as its tendency to recklessly expend ammunition and health supplies.\n\nReception of the downloadable content was favorable. Steven Hopper of \"GameZone\" rated the \"Lost in Nightmares\" DLC eight out of ten, saying that despite the episode's brevity it had high replay value and the addition of new multiplayer elements made it a \"worthy investment for fans of the original game.\" Samuel Claiborn of IGN rated the \"Desperate Escape\" DLC seven out of ten: \"Despite Desperate Escape's well-crafted action sequences, I actually found myself missing the unique vibe of Lost in Nightmares. The dynamic between Jill and Josh isn't particularly thrilling, and the one-liners, banter and endearing kitsch are kept to a minimum.\"\n\n\"Resident Evil 5\"s 2007 E3 trailer was criticized for depicting a white protagonist killing black enemies in a small African village. According to \"Newsweek\" editor N'Gai Croal, \"There was a lot of imagery in that trailer that dovetailed with classic racist imagery\", although he acknowledged that only the preview had been released. Takeuchi said the game's producers were completely surprised by the complaints. The second trailer for the game, released on May 31, 2008, revealed a more racially diverse group of enemies and the African BSAA agent Sheva, who assists the protagonist. Critics felt that Sheva's character was added to address the issue of racism, though Karen Dyer said the character had been in development before the first trailer was released. Takeuchi denied that complaints about racism had any effect in altering the design of \"Resident Evil 5\". He acknowledged that different cultures may have had differing opinions about the trailer, though said he did not expect there to be further complaints once the game was released and people were \"able to play the game and see what it is for themselves\". In a \"Computer and Video Games\" interview, producer Masachika Kawata also addressed the issue: \"We can't please everyone. We're in the entertainment business—we're not here to state our political opinion or anything like that. It's unfortunate that some people felt that way.\"\n\nIn \"Eurogamer\" February 2009 preview of \"Resident Evil 5\", Dan Whitehead expressed concern about controversy the game might generate: \"It plays so blatantly into the old clichés of the dangerous 'dark continent' and the primitive lust of its inhabitants that you'd swear the game was written in the 1920s\". Whitehead said that these issues became more \"outrageous and outdated\" as the game progressed and that the addition of the \"light-skinned\" Sheva just made the overall issue worse. Hilary Goldstein from IGN believed that the game was not deliberately racist, and though he did not personally find it offensive, he felt that others would due to the subjective nature of offensiveness. Chris Hudak dismissed any allegations of racism as \"stupid\". Karen Dyer, who is of Jamaican descent, also dismissed the claims. She said that in over a year of working on the game's development she never encountered anything racially insensitive, and would not have continued working there if she had.\n\nWesley Yin-Poole of \"VideoGamer.com\" said that despite the controversy the game was attracting due to alleged racism, no expert opinion had been sought. He asked Glenn Bowman, senior lecturer in social anthropology at the University of Kent, whether he thought the game was racist. Bowman considered the racism accusations \"silly\", saying that the game had an anti-colonial theme and those complaining about the game's racism might be expressing an \"inverted racism which says that you can't have scary people who are black\". It was reported that one cutscene in the game scene showed \"black men\" dragging off a screaming white woman; according to Yin-Poole, the allegation was incorrect and the single man dragging the woman was \"not obviously black\". The scene was submitted to the British Board of Film Classification for evaluation. BBFC head of communications Sue Clark said, \"There is only one man pulling the blonde woman in from the balcony [and he] is not black either. As the whole game is set in Africa it is hardly surprising that some of the characters are black ... we do take racism very seriously, but in this case, there is no issue around racism.\"\n\nAcademic journals and conferences, however, have continued to comment on the theme of race within the game. In 2011, André Brock from \"Games and Culture\" said that the game drew from well-established racial and gender stereotypes, saying that the African people were only depicted as savage, even before transitioning into zombies. Writing for the Digital Games Research Association in 2011, Geyser and Tshabalala noted that racial stereotyping had never been intended by Capcom, though compared their depiction of Africa to that of the 1899 novel \"Heart of Darkness\". Post-colonial Africa, they opined, was portrayed as being unable to take care of itself, and at the mercy of Western influences.\n\nWriting for \"The Philosophy of Computer Games Conference\" in 2015, Harrer and Pichlmair considered \"Resident Evil 5\" to be \"yet another moment in the history of commodity racism, which from the late 19th century onwards allowed popular depictions of racial stereotypes to enter the most intimate spaces of European homes\". The authors state that Africa is presented from a Western gaze; \"what is presented as 'authentic' blackness conforms to the projected fantasy of predominantly white gaming audience\". In 2016, Paul Martin from \"Games and Culture\" said that the theme of the game could be described as \"dark continent\", stating that it drew on imagery of European colonialism and depictions of \"Blackness\" reminiscent of 19th-century European theories on race.\n\nThe PlayStation 3 version of \"Resident Evil 5\" was the top-selling game in Japan in the two weeks following its release, with 319,590 copies sold. In March 2009, it became the fastest-selling game of the franchise in the United Kingdom, and the biggest Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3 game release in the country. By December 2019, \"Resident Evil 5\" had sold 7.6 million copies worldwide between PlayStation 3, Xbox 360, and download, and the \"Gold Edition\" had sold an additional 2.3 million copies across those systems. The PlayStation 4 and Xbox One versions sold another 1.6 million copies combined, bringing the total sales to 11.5 million units.\n\nThe original release of \"Resident Evil 5\" was Capcom's best-selling individual edition of a game until March 2018, when \"\"s sales reached 7.5 million units, compared to 7.3 million for \"Resident Evil 5\" at the time. As of March 2019, when taking into consideration the sales of all versions and re-releases of titles, \"Resident Evil 5\" was the third-best-selling Capcom game overall, behind \"Monster Hunter: World\" (12.4 million) and \"Street Fighter II\" (14.05 million). The game remains the best-selling title in the \"Resident Evil\" franchise, outselling its closest rivals \"Resident Evil 6\" and \"Resident Evil 4\" by more than 2 million and 3.5 million units, respectively, as of April 2018.\n\n\"Resident Evil 5\" won the \"Award of Excellence\" at the 2009 Japan Game Awards. It was nominated for both Best Action/Adventure Game and Best Console Game at the 2008 Game Critics Awards, Best Action Game at the 2009 IGN Game of the Year Awards, and Best Sound Editing in Computer Entertainment at the 2010 Golden Reel Awards. It received five nominations at the 2010 Game Audio Network Guild Awards: Audio of the Year, Best Cinematic/Cut-Scene Audio, Best Dialogue, Best Original Vocal Song – Pop (for the theme song \"Pray\") and Best Use of Multi-Channel Surround in a Game. Karen Dyer was nominated for Outstanding Achievement in Character Performance at the 2010 Academy of Interactive Arts & Sciences Awards.\n\n"}
{"id": "2093524", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093524", "title": "Horror film score", "text": "Horror film score\n\nA horror film score is music used and often specially written for films in the horror genre.\n\nWhile the breakthrough Universal horror films of 1931, Dracula and Frankenstein used little or no music apart from for title sequences, Franz Waxman's score for \"Bride of Frankenstein\" is often cited as one of the first modern film scores.\n\nThe late 1930s and 1940s saw unknown and often uncredited composers such as Hans J. Salter and Frank Skinner setting the tone for later horror music. Often the music was darkly and lushly romantic, but heavily influenced by impressionism, atonality and serialism. A chief example is \"The Wolf Man\" (1940), to which Salter and Skinner both contributed.\n\nThe British Hammer horrors of the 1950s, 1960s and 1970s owed their musical feel to composer James Bernard, whose pacey, often frenetic, jarring scores to films such as \"Dracula\" (1958), \"The Plague of the Zombies\" (1966) and \"The Devil Rides Out\" (1968) are among his best-known. Bernard was fond of using the score to play along with the title of the film—his three-note signature for Dracula can be sung, and by prefiguring it with another four notes, Bernard could underscore the main title of Taste the Blood of Dracula.\n\nIn fact, Hammer employed a number of other composers, including Franz Reizenstein (\"The Mummy\", 1959), Malcolm Williamson (\"The Brides of Dracula\", 1960) and Tristram Cary (\"Quatermass and the Pit\", 1967, and \"Blood from the Mummy's Tomb\", 1971). Despite the obvious atonal influence on the earlier Universal film scores, Benjamin Frankel's 1960 score for \"The Curse of the Werewolf\" (1960) is believed by some to contain the first film theme to be based entirely on Arnold Schoenberg's Twelve-Tone scale.\n\nOn the other side of the Atlantic, it was perhaps Bernard Herrmann's string score for Hitchcock's \"Psycho\" that changed the sound of horror music. The stabbing rhythms of the famous shower scene have been imitated many times since.\n\nThe 1970s saw a new wave of slasher films, which tended to have more contemporary-sounding scores, often using electronic instruments. Horror director John Carpenter was well known for scoring his own films, such as \"Halloween\" (1978). For The Exorcist, William Friedkin rejected a score by Lalo Schiffrin and used the temp track featuring assorted pieces of music including part of Mike Oldfield's Tubular Bells.\n"}
{"id": "2093525", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093525", "title": "Ignaz Vincenz Zingerle", "text": "Ignaz Vincenz Zingerle\n\nIgnaz Vincenz Zingerle (6 June 1825 – 17 September 1892) was an Austrian poet and scholar.\n\nZingerle was born, the son of the Roman Catholic theologian and orientalist Pius Zingerle (1801-1881), at Meran. He began his studies at Trento, and entered for a while the Benedictine monastery at Marienberg. Abandoning the clerical profession, he returned to Innsbruck, where, in 1848, he became teacher in the gymnasium, and in 1859 professor of German language and literature at the university. He died at Innsbruck in September 1892.\n\nZingerle is known as author through his \"Zeitgedichte\" (Innsbruck, 1848); \"Von den Alpen\" (1850); \"Die Müllerin, a village tale\" (1853); \"Der Bauer von Longfall\" (1874); and \"Erzählungen aus dem Burggrafenamte\" (1884). His ethnographical writings and literary studies, dealing especially with Tirol, have, however, rendered him more famous. Among them may be mentioned his editions of \"König Laurin\" (1859), of the legend, \"Von den heyligen drei Königen\" (1855); \"Sagen aus Tirol\" (1850, 2nd ed. 1891); \"Tirol: Natur, Geschichte und Sage im Spiegel deutscher Dichtung\" (1851); \"Die Personen- und Taufnamen Tirols\" (1855); \"Sitten, Bräuche und Meinungen des Tiroler Volkes\" (2nd ed. 1871); \"Das deutsche Kinderspiel im Mittelalter\" (2nd ed. 1873); \"Schildereien aus Tirol\" (1877, new series, 1888). With E. Inama-Sternegg, he edited \"Tirolische Weisthümer\" (5 vols., 1875-1891).\n\n"}
{"id": "2093538", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093538", "title": "Nokia 6610", "text": "Nokia 6610\n\nThe Nokia 6610 is a handset by Nokia that uses the Series 40 platform and J2ME (Java). The device features text and picture messaging, a WAP browser, Stereo FM radio, Polyphonic ringtones and a 128x128, 4096-colour display. It is essentially the same phone feature-wise as the Nokia 7210, the 6610 being a more business-oriented version with a more conservatively-styled face plate and keypad layout, in contrast with the fashion-oriented 7210. It was introduced at CommunicAsia in June 2002 and was released in Q3 of the year.\n\nThe Nokia 6610i mobile telephone is an improved version of the Nokia 6610 with a built-in digital camera, launched in 2004. The phone's internals are taken from the Nokia 7250i, and use the same software, both supporting XHTML. The Nokia 6610i is aimed at business users, while the Nokia 7250i is intended more to be a fashion phone.\n\nThe Nokia 6585 is a physically identical variant of the 6610 for CDMA2000 1xRTT networks. Like its GSM cousin, the 6585 comes in a similar form factor, and can be customised with interchangeable face plates.\n\nThe Nokia 6560 model is a variant of the 6610 designed for North American markets that uses Digital AMPS (\"TDMA\")/AMPS technology. As with the CDMA and GSM variants, the 6560 uses the same fascia and form factor. This was Nokia's most feature-rich D-AMPS phone to ever be released, and only one of two models with a color display (the other being the Nokia 3560).\n\n"}
{"id": "2093540", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093540", "title": "Ellastone", "text": "Ellastone\n\nEllastone is a rural village in the West Midlands of England on the Staffordshire side of the River Dove, between Uttoxeter and Ashbourne in north Staffordshire.\n\nEllastone lies on the River Dove and is a hive of fluvial activity. Two small brooks (Sandford Brook and Tit Brook) flow directly into the River Dove. Additionally there is a natural spring, still officially known as Bentley Well, which flows into the Tit and sits on former farmland which is now occupied by a new development, Bentley Fold. The Dove is the historic boundary between the two counties of Derbyshire and Staffordshire, and some of its crossings and bridges were once important elements of the main coaching road from London to the ports of the North-West.\n\nToday the village, despite being on the busy B5032 road, misses out on the majority of the traffic for the often crowded Alton Towers theme park, which leaves the road just to the south at the J. C. Bamford World Headquarters in Rocester. Due to this, Ellastone residents do not receive free Alton Towers tickets despite its proximity to the attraction. The village does however attract some foot and horse tourism, as it lies near the southern end of the Limestone Way, a long distance bridleway.\n\nEllastone's current amenities include a village hall, tennis court, bowling green, park and snooker club.\n\nAlthough Ellastone is on the Staffordshire side of the border, it currently has a Derbyshire postal address because the nearest postal town of Ashbourne is in Derbyshire.\n\nEllastone, a linear village, situated close to the River Dove, on the border between Derbyshire and Staffordshire. The village can be traced back to Anglo-Saxon times in documentation and it features in the Domesday Book, where it is listed as \"Edelachestone\", \"Elachestone\" and as \"Princestone\". \"The Ellastone Parish Register\" (1907) records the variant spellings, to be found in early medieval manuscripts, as: \"Edelachestone, Elachestone, Ethelaxton, Ethelaston, Adlaxton, Athelaxton, Adelachestone, Adalacheston, Edelestone.\"\n\nOne of the village cottages was once owned by William Cecil, the influential politician and confident of Elizabeth I. That was probably due to that part of the Peak then being on the main road to London, as evidence by the later coaching route.\n\nThe local church of St. Peter's dates back to the 16th century with the year 1586 displayed on the tower.\n\nEllastone was served by a railway station (shared with Norbury) which was opened by the North Staffordshire Railway on 31 May 1852.\n\nDuring World War II, the bridge over the River Dove was an important crossing point, guarded by two pill-boxes, one on each bank. Both are still visible today, however the box on the western side of the bridge is harder to spot as it is currently serving as a shelter for the cows, but camouflage paint is still visible above the entrance.\n\nEllastone Old Hall, formerly the Bromley Arms pub, dates from the seventeenth century and is situated close to the current pub, the Duncombe Arms. There used to be a petrol station in the village and its presence can be noted through the unusual drives of the two bungalows closest to the pub, which very much resemble the entry/exits of a petrol station forecourt.\n\nThe village shop and sub Post Office was closed on 15 April 2006.\n\nThe wider Parish of Ellastone originally had six townships: Ellaston; Calwich; Prestwood; Ramsor; Stanton and Wootton. Today Ellastone Parish remains extensive, and includes the hamlets of Ramshorn, Wootton, and Prestwood. The Weaver Hills, about four miles north-west, lie just outside the Parish.\n\nEllastone is situated in the now obsolete Hundred of Totmonslow. The Hundred had two major divisions and each had its own constable and Petty Sessions. The Petty Sessions for the South division were held at Ellastone \n\nEllastone features as 'Hayslope' in George Eliot's \"Adam Bede\", published in 1859. It earned this recognition because the author's father spent the early part of his life in the village working as a carpenter...\n\nThere is 'Adam Bede cottage' in the village, so named because it was the family home of the Evans's, the family of \"George Elliot\",- Mary Ann Evans. Her uncle lived there during her lifetime and it is said that she did visit.\n\nThe Methodist references in \"Adam Bede\" fit this locality well. Primitive Methodist was born nearby at Mow Cop and the hamlet of Ramshorn (known as Ramsor in Methodist documents) at the western end of the Parish of Ellastone was very significant in the early history of Primitive Methodism. However the reality of the conversion of Hetty (a character in \"Adam Bede\") is suspect in the light of early Primitive Methodist histories.\n\nThe ruined Calwich Abbey is also situated nearby. An abbey was first built on the site in 1148, however the latest hall, built in 1848, was demolished in 1935, leaving only the stable block which is visible today. The composer Handel was one of the abbey's guests on several occasions. As such it has been suggested that it may have inspired some of his most important pieces such as \"Messiah\" and the \"Water Music\".\n\nUntil demolition in 1935 there was a Wootton Hall built by Inigo Jones circa 1730, and formerly visited by the fleeing French political philosopher Rousseau. Arthur Mee notes that this visit was not entirely a happy one. The jibes of the London wits, poking fun at Rousseau's hiding out in the hills, reveal that the place was then known as \"Wootton under Weaver\", a place were \"where God came never\" - meaning that it was known as one of the least Christian places in England. Wootton Hall has since been rebuilt at a smaller size as the residence of the Hon. Johnny Greenall of the brewing family.\n\nAlso within the parish is Wootton Lodge, a 17th-century house with deer park. This is an imposing property which has served many notable owners, but which is now owned by the Bamford family (JCB).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2093542", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093542", "title": "Battle of Luding Bridge", "text": "Battle of Luding Bridge\n\nThe Battle of Luding Bridge () of 1935 was a controversial crossing of the Luding Bridge by the soldiers of the Fourth Regiment of the Chinese Workers and Peasants' Army during the Long March. The bridge, situated over the Dadu River in Luding County, Garzê Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture, Sichuan, China, was located about 80 kilometers west of the city of Ya'an and was a river crossing vital to the Red Army.\n\nFleeing from pursuing Chinese Nationalist forces, the communists found that there were not enough boats to cross the Dadu River (Sichuan province). Thus, they were forced to use Luding Bridge, a Qing dynasty suspension bridge built in 1701. The bridge consisted of thirteen heavy iron chains with a span of some 100 yards. Thick wooden boards lashed over the chains provided the roadway across the bridge.\n\nOn the morning of May 30, 1935 the 4th regiment of Lin Biao's 2nd division, 1st Corps of the Chinese Red Army received an urgent order from general headquarters: Luding Bridge must be captured on May 29, 1935, one day ahead of the original schedule.\n\nThe 4th regiment then marched 120 km in less than 24 hours. Along the way, they engaged and defeated numerous nationalist forces which blocked their path. On the dawn of May 29, 1935, Lin Biao's troops reached the bridge, only to discover that local warlords allied with the ruling Kuomintang had removed most of the planks on the bridge. Furthermore, Luding City itself was occupied by a regiment of troops from warlord Liu Wenhui's 38th Brigade, 4th brigade, under the 5th division of the 24th Corps. The brigade's commander, Li Quanshan (李全山), was also a wealthy opium dealer. This was a common business for many of the local warlord commanders. Li Quanshan's (李全山) direct superior, Yuan Guorui (袁国瑞), the commander of the 4th brigade, was reputed to be an opium addict himself, as were most of the troops . Li divided his regiment into two parts, with two battalions deployed inside Luding City, while another battalion was deployed some distance outside in the suburb. His defending forces still enjoyed numerical superiority over the attacking Red Army. The 4th regiment had lost considerable strength during the hurried 24-hour march - approximately two-thirds of the soldiers had fallen behind during the march - and only a battalion-sized force had reached the western bank of the Luding Bridge that morning.\n\nA major factor that contributed to the Chinese Red Army's victory was that the local warlords were mainly concerned with Chiang Kai-shek and his plans to take over their territories, and they felt much less threatened by the Red Army's passing through. The area containing Luding bridge was controlled by the warlord Liu Wenhui (刘文辉), who fought the civil wars in Sichuan Province against his own nephew, the warlord Liu Xiang (刘湘). Liu Xiang managed to have nearly all of the other warlords in Sichuan join him in the struggle against his uncle. Chiang ostensibly remained neutral at the beginning of Sichuan's provincial conflicts in order to weaken the local warlords by letting them fight each other. Once the provincial warlords were weak and in disarray, Chiang's forces moved in and took over.\n\nGradually, it was apparent that the nephew would prevail over the uncle because the nephew was willing to take heavy troop losses in exchange for territory. The uncle was unwilling to sacrifice large number of his troops during initial skirmishes with his nephew. Knowing Liu Xiang would probably not survive a massive counterattack from Liu Wenhui, Chiang shifted his support to the nephew Liu Xiang. However, the anticipated counterattack from Liu Wenhui never came. Liu Xiang eventually defeated his own uncle, Liu Wenhui, forcing the latter to retreat to Xikang Province. Chiang was then able to face a weak alliance of smaller warlords rather than confront a single strong warlord that dominated the entire province. As Chiang had expected, when Liu Wenhui's defeat became obvious, the smaller alliance of warlords soon existed in name only.\n\nAs a result of the provincial conflicts Liu Wenhui, like the other warlords, was extremely reluctant to commit his force in any significant numbers to fight the Red Army. Knowing that the communists were only passing by, Liu Wenhui, like other warlords, preserved his forces to fight other warlords in Sichuan. Strength preservation was vital to his survival: his force had been reduced to 20,000 from its previous peak of 120,000.\n\nIn addition to preserving forces to fight others, the local warlords were also keen to preserve their forces to keep Chiang out of their own territory. Prior to the Red Army entering Sichuan Province, Chiang's army had followed the Red Army into the neighboring Guizhou province, ostensibly to help the local warlord, Wang Jialie (王家烈), fight them. When the Red Army left Guizhou, Chiang's troops remained. Blamed for failing to stop the Red Army, Wang Jialie was removed by Chiang with the backup of his newly deployed troops in the province. The local warlords knew that they could return and regain control of their territory after the Red Army had left; however, if Chiang's army came, they would be removed for good. Therefore, despite Chiang's advisors' accurate prediction of the need of at least three regiments—and possibly four or five—of the local warlord's troops to stop a single Red Army regiment, the local warlord only deployed a single regiment at Luding Bridge. The main force was deployed to block Chiang's two regiments sent to reinforce the defense of Luding Bridge. The defenders of Luding Bridge were well aware of the political situation after witnessing the fall of the neighboring warlord in Guizhou province and were not willing to sacrifice their own lives for Chiang's potential take-over.\n\nFollowing a divide and conquer tactic, Chiang awarded the local military command of the northern Dadu River region to a smaller Sichuanese warlord, Yang Sen (杨森). Yang Sen had allied with the second largest Sichuanese warlord, Liu Xiang. Together they began fighting against the biggest Sichuanese warlord Liu Wenhui. However, at the time of the Luding Bridge incident, the region was still under Liu Wenhui's control. Liu Wenhui's troops certainly would not take orders from the lesser rival Yang Sen. Although he received military, political, as well as financial support from Chiang Kai-shek, Yang Sen would not sacrifice his own troops by sending them to help Liu Wenhui stop the communists. Both were well aware of Chiang's divide and conquer strategy, and both held their main forces to prepare for Chiang's potential take-over. Knowing the local opium dependent warlord commanders were incapable of stopping the communist forces, Chiang tried to send more capable officers from his own officer corps to advise the local troops. These attempts were politely but unanimously rejected by all local Sichuanese warlords, as they feared Chiang's takeover.\n\nNumerous surviving Chinese Red Army veterans recalled that the weapons used by the local warlords guarding the bridge were far inferior to the weapons used by the Chinese Red Army, suggesting that the incident may have been exaggerated. While the Chinese Red Army soldiers had high morale and were brave, their superior weaponry was probably equally important:\n\n\nSupreme commander: Chiang Kai-shek, assisted by Liu Wenhui (刘文辉) and Yang Sen 杨森 (in name only).\n\nThe 24th Corps commanded by Liu Wenhui (刘文辉)\n\nChiang Kai-shek's forces did not reach the site in time to participate in the battle, though technically these forces were part of the provincial warlords' command.\n\nSupreme commander: Mao Zedong, assisted by Zhu De and Zhou Enlai\n\nThe right (eastern) column of the 1st Corps commanded by Liu Bocheng and Nie Rongzhen\n\nThe left (western) column of the 1st Corps commanded by Lin Biao\n\nDue to the devastating attrition rate during the Long March, the communist forces were so under-manned that brigade designations did not exist at the time of the incident.\n\nLin Biao has commonly been given credit for direct command of the assault. However, the actual commander was the regimental political commissar Yang Chengwu. Lin Biao and other column commanders remained at their temporary headquarters 160 km away from Luding Bridge, and the task of taking the bridge was given to Lin Biao's vanguard unit, the 4th regiment, as it was 40 km closer to Luding. The regiment was led by commander Wang Kaixiang (王开湘) and political commissar Yang Chengwu (杨成武). Credit was publicly given to Lin Biao during the Cultural Revolution, in which he was glorified to boost his popularity. Giving him direct credit for jobs accomplished by his subordinates was one of the standard propaganda techniques. During the Cultural Revolution, the actual commander, Yang Chengwu was jailed and persecuted under the direct order of Lin Biao.\n\nThe actual decision to capture Luding Bridge was made by Mao Zedong himself, at noon on May 26, 1935, with the help of Zhu De. When Mao and Zhu reached Anshunchang ferry, they found just four small boats. After moving a regiment across the river with the ferry, it became apparent that transporting the entire Red Army by ferry would take at least a month. Chiang Kai-shek's nationalist force, commanded by Xue Yue, was closing in fast, so it was decided that the main force would cross the Dadu River at Luding Bridge, 160 km upstream.\n\nMao decided that the Red Army would launch a two-pronged attack on Luding Bridge:\n\n\nMao had also prepared for the worst: if the two forces could not meet at Luding Bridge, Liu Bocheng and Nie Rongzhen would move into western Sichuan and there set up a new base.\n\nLin Biao had little to do with the planning or the direct battle maneuvers of the event. He probably provided logistical implementation for Mao's orders, and then dispatched his units to follow the plan. Lin Biao himself did not reach Luding Bridge until May 30, 1935, well after the end of the battle. Even Liu Bocheng reached Luding Bridge during the night of May 29, 1935, earlier than Lin Biao. However, Lin Biao can be credited with having the audacity, even recklessness, to order his troops to quickly march 160 km in 24 hours through hostile territory, and then, without rest, fight against an enemy of unknown strength.\n\nOn their way to Luding Bridge, the soldiers of the 4th regiment, 2nd division, 1st corps of the Chinese Red Army discovered that on the opposite bank, two regiments of the nationalist reinforcement were on their way to Luding Bridge. The nationalists were faster because they used torches at night, while the communists avoided them in order to move without being detected. When Red Army commander Wang Kaixiang and political commissar Yang Chengwu (杨成武) did finally decide to use torches, they were discovered by their adversaries.\n\nNeither of the forces had any radio equipment, and the sound of the raging river made vocal communication impossible. Consequently, the nationalists used bugles for command and control. However, the communists successfully fooled the nationalists into believing that they were on the same side by using the bugle commands of Chiang Kai-shek's ally and designated regional commander, Yang Sen, in reply to the nationalists' signals. In the face of heavy rains, the nationalists stopped their march and camped. The communists pressed on, and reached the bridge first.\n\nOn the eastern bank, the right column already started their march to the Luding Bridge. The Nationalist 10th regiment, 4th brigade was the closest opposing force to the communists, and began spreading out along the Dadu river. On May 27, 1935, the 2nd regiment of the 1st division of the communist force defeated the nationalist 10th regiment at the Waba (瓦坝) after several hours of fierce fighting. The next day, after more than a 50 km march, the communist 2nd regiment successfully crushed the remaining units of the nationalist 10th regiment. On May 29, 1935, the communist 2nd regiment engaged the nationalist 11th regiment, and with the help of the communist 3rd regiment, which arrived after the battle began, completely wiped out the nationalist 12th regiment. The communist 2nd and 3rd regiments then proceeded to destroy the brigade headquarters located 25 km away from Luding Bridge. The nationalist commander of the 4th brigade, Yuan Guorui (袁国瑞), fled with his surviving staff to the surrounding mountains, from where they were unable to reestablish links with the rest of the nationalist forces after the bridge and the city were both taken by the communists. This left to Li Quanshan (李全山), the regimental commander of the 38th regiment, the task of organizing the defense, which he was unable to accomplish.\n\nWith the main Kuomintang army closing in on the Chinese Red Army, it was decided to send a small volunteer force across the badly damaged bridge. After preparation, the volunteer force led by the company commander, Liao Dazhu (廖大珠), of the 2nd company, began their assault on the bridge at 4:00 p.m. under a covering barrage of mortars and loud bugler sounds from the south end. While \"Red Star Over China\", which uses the old-style name Tatu River, says there were thirty men in the force, it is now generally accepted that there were only twenty-two soldiers from the company that took part. Red Army sources agree that the members of the force crawled over the bare iron chains of the bridge while under heavy Nationalist machine-gun fire from the opposite side.\n\nMost of the assault team did not leave their names behind. Of the 22 assault team members, only four other than the team leader, Liao Dazhu, are known. The four whose names are known are: political commissar of the 2nd company Wang Haiyun (王海云), communist party secretary of the 2nd company (李友林), the communist party secretary of the 3rd company Li Jinshan (李金山), and the deputy squad commander of the 4th squad of the 2nd company Liu Zihua (刘梓华).\n\nAccording to \"Red Star Over China\", three were hit, fell, and died but the rest came forward, and \"Red Star Over China\" suggests that some of the warlord forces admired their foes and were not shooting to kill. The Regimental political commissar, Yang Chengwu, was the commander who led the actual attack. According to his memoirs and the recollections of the survivors of the twenty-two man assault team, there were no fatalities on the bridge itself, but several members of the force were wounded. However, in the ensuing battle to establish a bridgehead, two men were killed, and there were more fatalities in the subsequent battles to defend the bridgehead from the nationalists' counterattacks, which continued until the Red Army reinforcements arrived. At a late stage in the battles, \"paraffin was thrown on the planking and it began to burn\". Despite the presence of Red Army forces on both ends of the bridge, the NRA force guarding the bridge and Luding City were driven off it and began to retreat towards the city proper, and some surrendered.\n\nAccording to an account from the website of the late Will Downs:\n\nAs a reward, every surviving member of the volunteer team was awarded a fountain-pen, a notebook, a pair of chopsticks, a Zhongshan suit, and an enamel drinking mug, and this was significant at the time in terms of Chinese Red Army's standard: the reward was equivalent of at least half a decade's salary of an ordinary Chinese Red Army soldier. The political commissar of the 4th regiment, Yang Chengwu, also received the same reward.\n\nDespite their rewards, none of the survivors lived to see the establishment of the People's Republic. The duty squad commander of the 4th squad of the 2nd company Liu Zihua (刘梓华) was killed in January 1949 when liberating Tianjin during the Pingjin Campaign, and the commander of the 2nd company, Liao Dazhu (廖大珠) was the last to die; he was killed in the battle to liberate Shanghai in May 1949. The commander of the 4th regiment, Wang Kaixiang (王开湘) did not survive either; after the Long March, the regimental commander was struck with malaria and he accidentally shot himself while under the convulsive effects of the disease. At the Luding Bridge memorial museum, specially built to commemorate the event, only four out of the 22 pillars had names engraved, while the rest were unnamed. For the pillar with the name of the deputy squad commander of the 4th squad of the 2nd company, Liu Zihua (刘梓华), his head statue was also engraved.\n\nThere were actually two battles fought simultaneously at the site, one at the bridge and the other in Luding City, although due to the needs of political propaganda, the second battle was not publicized until recently. Indeed, it was the second battle that was fought at the suburb of Luding City that was critical in taking the bridge, and the first shot of all was fired in this \"second\" battle. Furthermore, it was not the twenty-two members of the assault team from the 2nd company, 4th regiment that first entered Luding City, but the 7th company of the same regiment, with more than five dozen soldiers, who first succeeded in breaking into the city.\n\nAfter reaching the bridge, the commander and the political commissar of the 4th regiment, 2nd division, Chinese Red Army 1st Corps divided the troops into three formations: one assault team to attack the bridge, one team to cross the river and attack them from behind from the suburb of Luding City, and the majority of the force to provide the cover for the assault team. The 7th company was assigned to perform the second task.\n\nThere was a turn of the Dadu River two km downstream from Luding Bridge, which made it impossible for the defenders of the city to see what was going on at the turn—besides, the nationalist defenders never expected that anyone would cross from there. As a result, the 7th company was able to cross the Dadu River with two rafts, and there was not a single enemy soldier at the opposite shore. After the crossing, the sixty soldiers of the 7th company marched upstream toward Luding City on the eastern bank of Dadu River.\n\nAround 2:00 p.m. on May 29, 1935, the 7th company was discovered by the sentries of the battalion the nationalist defenders deployed outside the city, and the nationalist sentries hastily fired the first shots of the battle at the Luding Bridge. However, the communist soldiers and the nationalist soldiers were more than 250 meters apart; the bullets of the nationalist soldiers could not reach their targets due to the nationalists' inferior weaponry. The communist soldiers of the 7th company immediately assaulted the enemy position and conquered the nationalist battalion within two hours.\n\nLearning that the Red Army had come from behind, the nationalist commanders immediately sent out another battalion for reinforcement, leaving only a token force to guard the bridge. The nationalists were overconfident in their defense of the bridge, not believing that anybody could cross over the bare iron chains under fire. However, the nationalist response simply took too long and it was so disorganized that it was not until the battalion outside the city was decimated that the reinforcement began to move out of the city. One of the reasons for the delay was that the nationalists did not believe that the 120 km to Luding City could be marched in such a short time, and in fact, many of nationalist commanders thought the battle at the suburb of Luding City was a case of misunderstanding and friendly fire amongst nationalist forces.\n\nAfter realizing the attacking force was indeed the enemy and not the reinforcements they hoped for, purportedly only after witnessing defeat of the battalion deployed in the suburb, the nationalist defenders inside the city were reluctant to leave the protection of the city wall and fortifications. Furthermore, the survivors of the battalion deployed outside the city wall greatly exaggerated the strength of the attacking communist force in order to make an excuse for their own failure after escaping back into the city. In order to prevent morale from dropping further, the nationalist commanders decided not to inform their soldiers about the incoming communist force other than for the battalion sent out, a decision they would later regret.\n\nThe disorganized and slow response also created another disaster for the national defenders inside the city wall: unaware of the newly changed battle plans that were hastily put together, the soldiers of the remaining battalion began to flee, abandoning their posts, because they thought the other battalion deployed to reinforce the already-destroyed battalion in the suburb were in fact escaping. The battalion on its way outside the city wall, in turn, seeing the remaining defenders starting abandoning their posts to flee and hearing the greatly exaggerated enemy from the survivors from the already destroyed battalion, also panicked and fled back into the city, abandoning their assigned mission.\n\nTaking advantage of the chaos, soldiers of the 7th company, 4th regiment of the 2nd division, 1st Chinese Red Army Corps successfully fought their way into Luding City at 4:00 p.m., suffering only a dozen fatalities along the way. By this time, the 2nd company of the same regiment on the western end of the bridge had already started their assault from the other side. The survivors of the 7th company fought their way directly toward the bridge, and successfully supported their comrades from the other side on the western bank of the Dadu River. After the assault team had crossed the bridge, and subsequent arrival of the main force of the 4th regiment, the battle ended at 6:00 p.m. with the bridge and the city firmly in the Red Army's hands.\n\nFour hours after the communist victory, nationalist reinforcements arrived from the eastern bank of the Dadu River, and together with the survivors of the defenders who were scattered by the Red Army in earlier battles, the nationalists launched their attack from the eastern suburb of Luding City around 10:00 p.m. on the night of May 29, 1935. The 4th regiment of the 2nd division, 1st CRA Corps, expected a fierce battle between them and the nationalists, but instead, the battle was short-lived. The nationalists either surrendered or escaped into the surrounding mountains almost as soon as the battle began, because the 1st regiment, 1st division, 1st CRA Corps on the eastern bank of Dadu River, led by commander Yang Dezhi (杨得志) and political commissar Li Lin (黎林) had also arrived, soon followed by the main force of the 1st division led by the Chinese Red Army Chief of the General Staff, Liu Bocheng, and the political commissar of the 1st corps, Nie Rongzhen, when the battle was supposed to continue. Red Army units on both banks of Dadu River had met at the Luding City area as Mao had planned beforehand.\n\nThe entire Chinese Red Army had completed its crossing by June 2, 1935, and thus this skirmish may have saved the Red Army from a major defeat.\n\nThe event raised morale for the troops, and was later used as a propaganda tool to highlight the courage of the communists. \"For their distinguished bravery the heroes of An Jen Ch'ang [the seized ferry boat] and Liu Ting Chiao [the bridge] were awarded the Gold Star, the highest decoration in the Red Army of China.\" (\"Red Star Over China').\n\nThe controversial anti-Mao British-Chinese writer Jung Chang and her revisionist historian husband, Jon Halliday, in their 2005 biography of Mao, \"\", write that there was no battle at Luding Bridge. Having interviewed eyewitnesses, including the owner of a nearby shop, they state that the Kuomintang did not sabotage the bridge, or contest the crossing. According to them, the Long March was exaggerated and used as propaganda.\n\nChang & Halliday's is a rare account in denying that there was a battle at Luding Bridge. There are non-Chinese writers who have supported the Communist point-of-view: for example, Harrison E. Salisbury in \"The Long March: The Untold Story\", Dick Wilson in \"The Long March 1935 : The Epic of Chinese Communism's Survival\" and Charlotte Salisbury in \"Long March Diary\", though none were eyewitness accounts. Other accounts agree in some ways with Chang's and suggest that propaganda greatly exaggerated the event (see below for more detail).\n\nIn Agnes Smedley's biography, \"\", she mentions that Zhu De as a child had heard about the fate of the Taiping army that had perished there, and had been told:\n\nThis account says that the attackers were led by Platoon Commander Ma-Ta-chiu, who was also the first to die. And that overall seventeen men died. (This may include deaths in the unit that had crossed the river by boat and attacked from the other side.)\n\nIt appears independent of the better-known version given by Edgar Snow. Different English versions of the same Chinese names are used: the river is the 'Ta Tu' and the bridge \"Lutinchiao\".\n\nIn a speech given at Stanford University, former US National Security Advisor Zbigniew Brzezinski related the following conversation with Deng Xiaoping:\nI even told them we went to Luding Bridge, which was the site of a special, important heroic battle in which the Red Forces were able to cross the river under very difficult and treacherous conditions. If they hadn’t they would have been wiped out. It was a great feat of arms to have crossed that bridge. At that point, Chairman Deng smiled and said, “Well, that’s the way it’s presented in our propaganda. We needed that to express the fighting spirit of our forces. In fact, it was a very easy military operation. There wasn’t really much to it. The other side were just some troops of the warlord who were armed with old muskets and it really wasn’t that much of a feat, but we felt we had to dramatize it.\nThe incident served as a major morale-raising opportunity for political propaganda. It is incorporated into the textbooks of Chinese elementary schools. However, in order to magnify the heroism of the Red Army, the important second battle fought at the suburb of Luding City on the eastern bank of Dadu River was kept secret, despite the fact it is well documented in the communists' own history archives. Even in the era of reform, movies such as \"Dadu River\" (1979), depicting the event, did not touch the subject. It was not until well after 2000, when Wu Qingchang (吴清昌), a veteran of the second battle was interviewed by various Chinese media, that the second battle and its importance, as well as the participants of the 7th company, 4th regiment, 2nd division, 1st Chinese Red Army corps became known to the public. Wu was only 18 when he participated in the battle, and he lost a section of his left index finger in that battle. He was the only survivor in his squadron to reach Shaanxi after the Long March.\n\nEd Jocelyn and Andrew McEwen, two western writers living in China investigated the matter while retracing the route of the Long March:\n\nSun Shuyun, who was born in China and has made documentaries for the BBC, did her own retracing of the march. At Luding Bridge, a local blacksmith gave her the following account:\nOnly a squadron was at the other end. It was a rainy day. Their weapons were old and could only fire a few metres. They were no match for the Red Army. When they saw the soldiers coming, they panicked and fled—their officers had long abandoned them. There wasn't really much of a battle. Still, I take my hat off to the twenty-two soldiers who crawled on the chains. My father and I did it in the old days when we checked the bridge, but we were inside a basket. Those men were brave. They crossed very quickly.\"\nThe blacksmith also said that after they had crossed, the Red Army cut through four of the bridge's nine chains, making it unusable for months. This has not been mentioned in other accounts, but Sun Shuyun found another source and discovered that the idea came from Mao. (One of these chains is on display in The Military Museum of the Chinese People’s Revolution in Beijing.) She also suggests that the Red Army was indeed given an easy passage, but that this was done by local warlords in defiance of Chiang Kai-shek:\nIt seems that one of the warlords, Liu Wenhui (刘文辉), was a key figure... When [Red Army commander] Zhu De, Liu Bocheng and Nie Rongzhen, his fellow Sichuanese, sent him money and a letter, asking for safe passage through his territory, including the Luding Bridge, he happily obliged... 'Chiang gives my army no ammunition or food, how can we fight tough battles?' he grumbled. He told his men to put up only half-hearted resistance, and to allow the Red Army through without much of a fight...\n\nLiu kept his contact with the Communists ... In 1949 he mutinied, taking two other warlords with him over to the Communists... he was made Minister of Forestry, and then a minister in the Communist government. (Ibid.)\nIn 2006 the Propaganda Director of Luding government stated: \"West Point has documented the crossing of Luding Bridge into their textbook.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2093545", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093545", "title": "Star Wars: Jedi Apprentice", "text": "Star Wars: Jedi Apprentice\n\nStar Wars: Jedi Apprentice is a popular series of books in the fictional \"Star Wars\" (Legends) universe, published between 1999 and 2002. Jude Watson is the primary author of the series, although the first book was written by Dave Wolverton. The books follow the adventures of young Jedi Obi-Wan Kenobi and his Master, Qui-Gon Jinn, before the events of \"\". The series' main target market was supposed to be children aged 9 through 12, but due to the books' writing style and \"serial\" plot development, the books have managed to earn a loyal adult audience as well.\n\nObi-Wan Kenobi must become an apprentice by his thirteenth birthday. Unfortunately, Qui-Gon Jinn, a Jedi Master without an apprentice, finds the boy to be aggressive and unpredictable, as shown in Obi-Wan's sparring match with fellow Jedi student Bruck Chun. Consequently, Obi-Wan is forced to use his Jedi powers as a special farmer on the world of Bandomeer. Coincidentally, Qui-Gon is also going to Bandomeer. On the way to Bandomeer, Obi-Wan and Qui-Gon join together to stop the abuse of Offworld Corporation, which wishes to control Bandomeer's resources for itself. At Bandomeer, Qui-Gon learns that his former apprentice, Xanatos, is the leader of Offworld. Although the small Offworld faction on Bandomeer is quickly put into check, Xanatos manages to escape the planet.\n\nBecause of the Offworld Corporation incidents, Qui-Gon decides to take Obi-Wan as his apprentice. However, on the planets of Phindar and Gala, the two are tested by a corrupt ruler named Prince Beju and a crime organization known as The Syndicat. These problems are eventually solved by the two Jedi, whose relationship continually strengthens.\n\nHowever, on a mission to rescue the Jedi Knight Tahl from Melida/Daan, Obi-Wan's loyalties are compromised when he meets a group of adolescents and children known as the Young. This group of children attempts to stop the civil war between the Melida faction and the Daan faction, which results in numerous fatalities and the near death of Tahl, who was imprisoned by the Melida. Nevertheless, Obi-Wan is forced to make a choice: stay with the Jedi Order, or stay with the Young and attempt to bring stability to Melida/Daan. Obi-Wan chooses to leave the Order, much to the disappointment of Qui-Gon.\n\nWhen Qui-Gon returns to the Jedi Temple, he learns that it is under attack by a mysterious power. On Melida/Daan, Obi-Wan manages to help the Young stop the civil war, but not without the deaths of several of the non-Jedi's newfound friends. With Obi-Wan desperate to return to the Order and Qui-Gon in need of his ex-Padawan's help, the two are quickly reunited. With their combined skills, they learn that Xanatos has infiltrated the Jedi Temple with the help of Obi-Wan's former rival, Bruck Chun. Obi-Wan's childhood friend, Bant, is caught directly in the middle of the situation. Eventually, Xanatos' plans to destroy the temple are thwarted, but Bruck is killed and Xanatos escapes.\n\nTo ensure justice, Qui-Gon and Obi-Wan pursue Xanatos to his home planet of Telos. There, they learn that Offworld Corporation (and, ultimately, Xanatos) is using a front called UniFy to manipulate and plunder the planet. After several games of cat and mouse, Xanatos is incriminated and cornered by Obi-Wan and Qui-Gon. Helpless, Xanatos commits suicide. After the mission, Obi-Wan and Qui-Gon officially become a Master-Padawan duo once more.\n\nObi-Wan, Qui-Gon, Adi Gallia, and Siri Tachi are sent to the backwater planet of Kegan to fetch a Force-sensitive baby, O-Lana. During the mission, Siri and Obi-Wan become trapped in the planet's learning center, which tries to brainwash Keganite children into an isolationist view of the galaxy. Meanwhile, Qui-Gon and Adi Gallia try to convince the planet's leaders into giving up Lana, though this quickly turns into a rescue mission once Siri and Obi-Wan are captured and sent to the learning center. After tense diplomatic and covert operations, the four Jedi are reunited, and Kegan is opened up to the Galaxy.\n\nOn a mission to the planet of Rutan and the moon of Senali, Obi-Wan and Qui-Gon must stop a tense political crisis, which nearly results in all-out civil war.\n\nAfter Obi-Wan Kenobi's fourteenth birthday, a bounty hunter called Ona Nobis launches an attack on Qui-Gon's old friend, Didi. However, the attack was orchestrated to lure Qui-Gon into the hands of Jenna Zan Arbor, a Force-experimenting scientist. Qui-Gon is captured and taken to Simpla-12, where Zan Arbor performs a series of experiments on the Jedi Master. To maintain his calm, Qui-Gon is forced to endure torture and verbal jousting matches with the scientist.\n\nBack on Coruscant, Obi-Wan is desperate to locate his old Master. Pairing up with Siri once again, Obi-Wan goes to Ona Nobis' world, Sorrus, to try to find a lead on where Qui-Gon was taken. Eventually, Obi-Wan, Siri, and Adi Gallia are led to Simpla-12, where they rescue Qui-Gon. However, Nobis and Zan Arbor escape to the planet of Belasco, whose senator, Uta S'orn, is a friend of Zan Arbor. With S'orn's political powers, Zan Arbor has complete control over Belasco by using a special virus to keep the planet sick long enough for an expensive cure to be provided. After some time, the Jedi catch up to the group, kill Nobis, and banish Zan Arbor and S'orn to a penal colony for their crimes.\n\nWhen Tahl rushes to New Apsolon on a mission to save a pair of politically powerful twins, Qui-Gon grows nervous. Qui-Gon and sixteen-year-old Obi-Wan go to New Apsolon to assist Tahl, where they encounter a planet locked in a struggle between the high class and the low class. During the mission to find Tahl, Qui-Gon realizes that his concern for Tahl goes beyond friendship. However, when Tahl and Qui-Gon do encounter each other, they pledge their love to each other. Immediately thereafter, Tahl is captured by Apsolon extremists once again.\n\nQui-Gon and Obi-Wan desperately search the entire planet for Tahl. When they do discover her, they are too late; Tahl dies by Qui-Gon's side. Grief-stricken, Qui-Gon goes into a rage and prepares to kill those who are responsible for her death. Disturbed over Qui-Gon's call to vengeance, the Jedi Council sends Mace Windu and Tahl's apprentice, Bant, to assist Obi-Wan in both the investigation and the containment of Qui-Gon's rage. Although Qui-Gon nearly gives in to his revenge, he manages to bring the people responsible to justice, and not death.\n\nTahl's death would plague Qui-Gon for several years, although he quickly returned to the line of duty less than a year after the New Apsolon crisis.\n\nOn the planet of Frego, Qui-Gon and Obi-Wan must elude a criminal family to apprehend a witness to the lethal issues caused by the family. In response, the witness' family members try and stop the Jedi from bringing her to Coruscant, which results in multiple failed assassination attempts. However, the mission is a success, and the witness is brought to the Galactic Senate to testify against her family's crimes.\n\nBy this point, seventeen-year-old Obi-Wan Kenobi is coming of age. On a planet filled with work-obsessed life forms, Obi-Wan and Qui-Gon must prevent terrorist attacks from sparking an all-out civil war. During the mission, Qui-Gon gives Obi-Wan more command over certain aspects of the assignment, which gives Obi-Wan added responsibility on his journey toward becoming a Jedi Knight.\n\nThe books include (in chronological order):\n\n\nSpecial Editions\n"}
{"id": "2093550", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093550", "title": "Zschokke", "text": "Zschokke\n\nZschokke is a Swiss-German surname. It may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2093551", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093551", "title": "K-156 (Kansas highway)", "text": "K-156 (Kansas highway)\n\nK-156 is a west–east state highway in the U.S. state of Kansas. K-156's western terminus is at U.S. Route 50 Business (US-50 Bus.) and US-83 Bus. in Garden City and the eastern terminus is at Interstate 70 (I-70) and US-40 in Ellsworth. It was originally US-156, an intrastate U.S. Highway that existed from 1957 to 1981.\n\n The route begins in Garden City, on Kansas Avenue at the junction with US-50 Business and US-83 Business (Main Street). It then follows Kansas Ave. eastbound out of town, where it meets K-23 for a concurrency west of Kalvesta. After crossing US-283 in Jetmore, and US-183 east of Rozel, K-156 becomes concurrent with its implied parent, US-56, in Larned, at the intersection of 14th and Broadway Streets. \nTogether, US-56 and K-156 head northeast toward Great Bend, where K-96 joins the concurrency. After the three highways cross US-281, they leave Great Bend and K-156 splits from US-56 and K-96, heading northeast from there. After an interchange with K-4 east of Claflin, K-156 meets K-14 south of Ellsworth. At that junction, K-156 begins carrying a concurrency with K-14 Truck route. Inside Ellsworth, K-14 Truck splits from K-156 at the junction with K-140. K-156 ends at exit 225 of I-70 and US-40, in northeast Ellsworth County.\n\nFrom 1957 to 1982, the route existed as U.S. Route 156, a spur highway of US-56 that ran from Garden City to Great Bend. US-156 had originally been planned as US-155. Until 1965, the section of the highway from Great Bend to Ellsworth County was designated K-45. The entirety of US-156, from Garden City to Ellsworth County, was decommissioned on April 1, 1981 and redesignated K-156.\n\n"}
{"id": "2093555", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093555", "title": "Monte Viso", "text": "Monte Viso\n\nMonte Viso or Monviso (; ; Piedmontese: \"Brich Monviso\" or \"Viso\"), is the highest mountain of the Cottian Alps. It is located in Italy close to the French border. Monte Viso is well known for its pyramid-like shape and, because it is higher than all its neighbouring peaks by about 500 m, it can be seen from great distance, including from the Piedmontese plateau, the Langhe, the Theodulpass in the Zermatt ski area and the summits of the Mont Blanc massif. On a very clear day it can be seen from the spires of the Milan Cathedral.\nIt has been suggested that Monte Viso could be one of the mountains which inspired the Paramount logo.\nIn Italy is also known as \"Il Re di Pietra\" (The Stone King) because of his prominence within western Italian Alps landscape. From 29 May 2013, it has become UNESCO's heritage as a cross-border biosphere reserve with France.\nOn the northern slopes of Monte Viso are the headwaters of the Po, the longest Italian river, the so-called Pian del Re (2,020 m). The Monviso group is surrounded by the Valle Po, Valle Varaita and, on the French side, the Guil valley. The northern sector of the group, from the Punta Gastaldi to the Col de la Traversette, is located on the French border.\n\nAccording to the SOIUSA (\"International Standardized Mountain Subdivision of the Alps\") the mountain can be classified in the following way:\n\nMonte Viso is the location of a neolithic jadeite quarry, at an elevation of 2000 to 2400 metres. Its productivity peaked around 5000 BC. The jadeite was used to make cult axes, which are found all over western Europe. One such ceremonial axe head was found as far away as a small hill called Tristia in Western Ireland and is on display in the National Museum of Ireland – Archaeology, Dublin.\n\nIn ancient times the mountain was known as Vesulus.\n\nMonte Viso was climbed for the first time on August 30, 1861 by William Mathews, Frederick Jacomb, Jean-Baptiste Croz and Michel Croz.\n\nMonte Viso is mentioned by various authors, Italian and non-, including Dante, Petrarch, and Chaucer. Dante mentions the mountain in a long simile in Canto XVI of the Inferno as the source of the Montone River:\n\n\"Come quel fiume c'ha proprio cammino\" \n\"prima dal Monte Viso 'nver' levante,\" \n\"da la sinistra costa d'Apennino\"\n\nChaucer cites the mountain in the prologue to the Clerk's Tale in his Canterbury Tales, in a passage adapted from Petrarch's Latin version of his \"Tale of Griselda\":\n\n\"A prohemie, in which discryveth he,\"\n\"Pemond, and of Saluces the contree,\"\n\"And speketh of Appenyn, the hilles hye,\"\n\"That been the boundes of West Lumbardye,\"\n\"And of Mount Vesulus in special,\"\n\"Wher as the Poo out of a welle smal,\"\n\"Taketh his first spryngyng and his cours\"\n\"That eastward ay encresseth in his cours\"\n\"To Emele-ward, to Ferare and Venyse;\"\n\"The which a long thyng were to devyse.\" \n\n\n"}
{"id": "2093556", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093556", "title": "The Brides of Dracula", "text": "The Brides of Dracula\n\nThe Brides of Dracula is a 1960 British supernatural horror film produced by Hammer Film Productions. Directed by Terence Fisher, the film stars Peter Cushing, David Peel, Freda Jackson, Yvonne Monlaur, Andrée Melly, and Martita Hunt. The film is a sequel to the 1958 film \"Dracula\" (also known as \"Horror of Dracula\"), though the character of Count Dracula does not appear in the film, and is instead mentioned only twice. Christopher Lee would reprise his role as Dracula in the film \"\" (1966).\n\nFilming began for \"The Brides of Dracula\" on 16 January 1960 at Bray Studios. It was developed under the working titles \"Dracula 2\" and \"Disciple of Dracula\". The finished film premièred at the Odeon Marble Arch on 6 July 1960. It was distributed theatrically in 1960 on a double bill with \"The Leech Woman\".\n\nA gloomy wood is seen as a voice is heard, narrating:\n\"Transylvania, land of dark forests, dread mountains and black unfathomable lakes. Still the home of magic and devilry as the nineteenth century draws to its close. Count Dracula, monarch of all vampires, is dead. But his disciples live on to spread the cult and corrupt the world.\nMarianne Danielle, a young French schoolteacher en route to take up a position in Transylvania, is abandoned at a village inn by her coach driver. Ignoring the warnings of the locals, she accepts the offer of Baroness Meinster to spend the night at her castle. There, she sees the Baroness's handsome son, who is said to be insane and kept confined. When she sneaks into his quarters to meet him, she is shocked to find him chained by his leg to the wall, and when he tells her that his mother has usurped his rightful lands and pleads for her help, she agrees to steal the key to his chain from the Baroness' bedroom.\n\nDiscovering this, the Baroness is horrified; yet when her son appears, she obeys him and accompanies him back to his room. Later, Marianne discovers the Baroness' servant Greta, who has also taken care of the Baron since he was a baby, in hysterics: She shows Marianne the Baroness' corpse, and the puncture marks in her throat. Marianne flees into the night upon seeing this, while Greta chastises the Baroness for raising her son on cruelty and cavorting with bad company in the past, which lead to one such being (Dracula) turning him into a vampire and the Baroness having to chain him in his room and feeding him any girls that she lured to the castle. Despite knowing the evil he intends to the village, Greta remains loyal to the Baron.\n\nMarianne is later found, exhausted, by Dr. Van Helsing the following morning. She doesn't remember all that has happened, nor is she familiar when asked about the words \"undead\" or \"vampirism.\" He escorts her to the school where she's to be employed.\n\nWhen Van Helsing reaches the village inn, he finds there is a funeral in progress. A young girl has been found dead in the woods with wounds upon her throat. Van Helsing contacts Father Stepnik, who had requested Van Helsing's presence, having suspicions about the castle and the Baroness. He tries to dissuade the girl's father from burying her, but he doesn't listen, allowing her transformation to be completed. Stepnik and Van Helsing go to the cemetery that night, only to find Greta aiding the newly vampirised village girl to rise from her grave. The men try to stop them, but Greta holds them off and allows the girl to flee. Van Helsing goes to the castle and discovers the Baroness, now risen as a vampire herself, as well as the Baron. After a brief scuffle, the Baron flees on a coach driven by the village girl, abandoning his mother, who is full of self-loathing and guilt over her actions with her son. Knowing that the transformation was Meinster's revenge on his mother for locking him up, Van Helsing takes pity on her and, after sunrise the next morning, kills her with a wooden stake as she slumbers.\n\nThe Baron, meanwhile, visits Marianne at the school and asks her to marry him. She accepts, much to the good-natured envy of her roommate Gina. However, once Gina is alone, Baron Meinster appears in her room and drains her of her blood. When Van Helsing visits the next day, he finds the school in an uproar over Gina's death. After inspecting Gina's body, Van Helsing orders that her body be placed in a horse stable with people watching it until he returns. That night, Marianne relieves the headmaster's wife of her watch. Initially she is with the stable keeper, Severin, when one of the padlocks on the coffin falls off without unlocking. Severin goes outside to fetch another lock, but is killed by a vampire bat. Inside, the last lock falls from the coffin; the lid is pushed open, and Gina rises, now a vampire. As she approaches Marianne, Gina reveals the whereabouts of the Baron, who is hiding at the old mill.\n\nVan Helsing discovers the body of Severin and enters the stable, saving Marianne from being bitten by Gina, who then flees. Van Helsing takes Marianne back to the school to calm her down, and makes it clear to her that the Baron and his vampiric consorts pose a danger to her. Reluctantly, Marianne tells Van Helsing what Gina told her. The vampire hunter goes to the old mill and manages to find the Baron's coffin, but is soon confronted by both of Meinster's brides as well as Greta. Van Helsing wards the brides off with his cross, but Greta, who is still human, wrestles it away from him, only to trip and plummet from the rafters, dying in the fall. The cross falls into the well below the mill and is now out of Van Helsing's reach as the Baron arrives. In the fight that follows, the Baron manages to subdue Van Helsing and bites him, inflicting him with vampirism before leaving. When Van Helsing wakes, he heats a metal tool in a brazier until it is red hot, then cauterises his throat wound and pours holy water on it to purify it, upon which the wounds disappear.\n\nBaron Meinster, meanwhile, abducts Marianne from the school and brings her to the mill, intending to vampirise her in front of Van Helsing. As Meinster attempts to hypnotise her to make her compliant to his will, Van Helsing throws the holy water into the Baron's face, which sears him like acid. Meinster kicks over the brazier of hot coals, starting a fire. He runs outside as the brides make their escape. Van Helsing takes Marianne up into the mill, then out via the huge sails, which he moves to form the shadow of a gigantic cross over Meinster, who is killed by his exposure to the symbol. Van Helsing comforts Marianne as the mill burns.\n\n\nHammer commissioned Jimmy Sangster to write a sequel script, \"Disciple of Dracula\", with Count Dracula only making a cameo and the rest of the film about an acolyte of the vampire. This script was rewritten by Peter Bryan to remove references to Dracula, although Van Helsing was added. The script was then rewritten by Edward Percy.\n\n\n\"The Monthly Film Bulletin\" of the UK wrote: \"The genuinely eerie atmosphere of traditional Vampire folk-lore continues to elude the cinema. This latest sequel in Hammer's apparently endless series adds little to the Dracula legend other than a youthful, good-looking vampire, and nothing to the familiar Hammer format of inappropriate colour and \"décor,\" a vague pretence at period and a serious surface view of the proceedings.\" Bosley Crowther of \"The New York Times\" dismissed the film as \"but another repetition of the standard tale of the vampire ... There is nothing new or imaginative about it.\" \"Variety\" called the film \"technically well-made\" but thought the script \"adds little to the Dracula legend and follows formula horror gimmicks,\" and that \"it would have been considerably more scary if it had been filmed in old-fashioned black and white.\" \"Harrison's Reports\" wrote that Martita Hunt and Freda Jackson were \"excellent\" in the film and the direction and photography were \"first class,\" but that it was \"not overly frightening.\"\n\n\"The Brides of Dracula\" holds a score of 71% on Rotten Tomatoes. The famous Spanish cult film director Jesus Franco credits this film as the one that inspired him to enter the horror film genre in 1961, resulting in his highly acclaimed \"The Awful Dr. Orloff\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2093558", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093558", "title": "Erwin Baker", "text": "Erwin Baker\n\nErwin George \"Cannon Ball\" Baker (March 12, 1882 – May 10, 1960) was an American motorcycle and automobile racing driver and organizer in the first half of the 20th century. Baker began his public career as a vaudeville performer, but turned to driving and racing after winning a dirt-track motorcycle race in Crawfordsville, Indiana in about 1904.\n\nBaker was also famous for his record-setting point-to-point drives, in which he was paid to promote the products of various motorcycle and automobile manufacturers. In all, he made 143 cross-country motorcycle speed runs totaling about .\n\nIn 1908, Baker purchased an Indian motorcycle and began entering and winning local races. His most famous victory came in 1909 at the first race ever held at the newly built Indianapolis Motor Speedway. Baker also raced at the 1922 Indianapolis 500, placing 11th in a Frontenac. He later became the first commissioner of NASCAR. Baker was inducted into the Indianapolis Motor Speedway Hall of Fame in 1981, the Motorsports Hall of Fame of America in 1989 and the American Motorcyclist Association Motorcycle Hall of Fame in 1998.\n\nBaker was born in Dearborn County, Indiana, in 1882. In January 1912 he left Indianapolis on a two-speed Indian and covered in three months, traveling through Florida, down to Cuba and Jamaica, and then to Panama. He took a steamer up to San Diego where he based himself for a while and from there he competed in several endurance runs in both California and Arizona. It was during this time that Baker decided he would attempt to break the transcontinental record. After a record-setting transcontinental drive in 1914, he received his nickname \"Cannon Ball\" from a New York newspaper writer who compared him to the \"Cannonball Express\" train of the Illinois Central made famous by Casey Jones.\n\nBaker set 143 driving records from the 1910s through the 1930s. His first was set in 1914, riding coast to coast on an Indian motorcycle in 11 days. He normally rode to sponsor manufacturers, guaranteeing them \"no record, no money\".\n\nIn 1915, Baker drove from Los Angeles to New York City in 11 days, 7 hours and fifteen minutes in a Stutz Bearcat, and the following year drove a Cadillac 8 roadster from Los Angeles to Times Square in 7 days, 11 hours, and 52 minutes, while accompanied by an Indianapolis newspaper reporter. For ReVere, he drove a car that might have been the first work's prototype vehicle on a very extended reliability, endurance, and promotion run. The trip took about four months from June to September 1918, went over 16,234 miles and connected the 48 state capitals. In 1924 he made his first midwinter transcontinental run in a stock Gardner sedan at a time of 4 days, 14 hours, and 15 minutes. He was so impressed by the car, that he purchased one thereafter.\nIn 1926 he drove a loaded two-ton truck from New York to San Francisco in a record 5 days, 17 hours, and 30 minutes, and in 1928, he beat the 20th Century Limited train from New York to Chicago. Also in 1928, he competed in the Mount Washington Hillclimb Auto Race, and set a record time of 14:49.6 seconds, driving a Franklin.\n\nHis best-remembered drive was a 1933 New York City to Los Angeles trek in a Graham-Paige model 57 Blue Streak 8, setting a 53.5 hour record that stood for nearly 40 years. This drive inspired the later Cannonball Baker Sea-To-Shining-Sea Memorial Trophy Dash, better known as the \"Cannonball Run\", which itself inspired at least five movies and a television series. In 1941, he drove a new Crosley Covered Wagon across the nation in a troublefree run to prove the economy and reliability characteristics of Crosley automobiles. Other record and near-record transcontinental trips were made in Model T Fords, Chrysler Imperials, Marmons, Falcon-Knights and Columbia Tigers, among others.\n\nBaker died of a heart attack at Community Hospital in Indianapolis, Indiana on May 10, 1960, at age 78. He is buried at Crown Hill Cemetery in Indianapolis.\n\nIn 2017, an Indiana state historical marker commemorating \"Cannon Ball\" Baker was installed by the Indiana Historical Bureau in front of Baker's home at 902 East Garfield Drive in Indianapolis. The home overlooks Garfield Park.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2093559", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093559", "title": "Elmer and the Dragon", "text": "Elmer and the Dragon\n\nElmer and the Dragon is the second in the \"My Father's Dragon\" trilogy of children's novels by Ruth Stiles Gannett. It is preceded by \"My Father's Dragon\" and followed by \"The Dragons of Blueland\". In this book, Elmer Elevator and his recently liberated dragon friend travel home, but find themselves marooned on another island inhabited by talkative animals. The illustrations within the book are black and white lithographs, done by Ruth Chrisman Gannett.\n\nElmer and the dragon (Boris, we learn in book 3) are stranded on a remote island inhabited only by canaries. One of them, Flute, was Elmer's pet until he escaped to Feather Island. Elmer helps Flute and the king and queen canaries to dig up a chest that the island's former human settlers left. Inside are various household items, a watch, a harmonica, and six bags of gold. The dragon flies Elmer back to his house before returning to Blueland, his own home.\n"}
{"id": "2093563", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093563", "title": "Benito Martínez", "text": "Benito Martínez\n\nBenito Martínez Abrogán (died October 11, 2006) was a Haitian Cuban who claimed to be the world's oldest living person. He claimed to have been born on June 19, 1880, near Cavaellon, Haiti; however, he had no documents to verify this and was thus never an officially eligible candidate for this record. The Cuban government sent officials to Haiti to investigate, but found nothing to either prove or disprove the claim. Cuban government medical experts attested that he was at least 119 years old at the time of his death, but the reasons for this determination were never presented.\n\nMartínez has papers proving he came to Cuba via steamship in the 1920s from Haiti, but his age at the time was not recorded. Initially he found employment on the family ranch of Cuban president Fidel Castro. He was nicknamed, “El Avión” (the aeroplane), for the speed at which he worked as he helped to construct the original highway across Cuba. He later settled in a small farming community outside Ciego de Avila, where he lived out his days as a perpetual bachelor. He attributed his longevity to a healthy diet of rice and fresh vegetables and the occasional alcoholic beverage. Mr. Martínez also said the secret to his long life was that, \"he had never cheated a man or said bad things of other people.\"\n\nHe never owned a car. He always walked, rode a bike or took the bus. Hobbies included breeding fighting cocks, growing bananas and dancing. He rarely over ate as food was rationed. He ate mostly starchy cassava and sweet potatoes cooked in pork fat. Only in the last twenty years of his life did he give up smoking. His first doctor's visit was not until he was around 115. The only time he went to the hospital was a few days before he died.\n\nNo actual record exists of either his birth or his life prior to his immigration to Cuba, making him ineligible for consideration for the title of oldest living person, by the Guinness World Records, held at the time of his death by Elizabeth Bolden (August 15, 1890 – December 11, 2006), an African-American woman aged 116. Nonetheless, Abrogan maintained his claim until his death, and in his later years was the star attraction of the country's recently formed 120-Club, an organization promoting healthy lives for Cuba's senior citizens.\n\n"}
{"id": "2093575", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093575", "title": "News Media Guild", "text": "News Media Guild\n\nThe News Media Guild, formerly known as the Wire Service Guild, is local union 31222 of The NewsGuild, which is a sector of the Communications Workers of America.\n\nMost of its members are employees of the Associated Press, where the union represents reporters, editors, photographers, broadcast staff, payroll clerks and computer technicians. It also represents employees of United Press International and the EFE news agency in the United States. \n\nThe national local was founded in 1958, but its roots extend back to the 1940s. The subject of organizing workers at AP was the subject of a case before the U.S. Supreme Court (Associated Press v N.L.R.B, 301 U.S. 103), which held that the First Amendment did not give media employers immunity from labor laws. That case involved an editorial worker who edited and rewrote news copy. \n\n"}
{"id": "2093581", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093581", "title": "The Curse of the Werewolf", "text": "The Curse of the Werewolf\n\nThe Curse of the Werewolf is a 1961 British horror film based on the novel \"The Werewolf of Paris\" by Guy Endore. The film was made by the British company Hammer Film Productions and was shot at Bray Studios on sets that were constructed for the proposed Spanish inquisition themed \"The Rape of Sabena\", a film that was shelved when the BBFC objected to the script. The location of the story was adjusted to Madrid to save building new Parisian sets. The leading part of the werewolf was Oliver Reed's first starring role in a film. Benjamin Frankel's score is notable for its use of twelve-tone serialism, rare in film music.\n\nThe film was heavily censored in the UK on its initial release and was first shown in a restored print on the BBC in 1993. The planned premiere TV screening of the restored print on Oct 31st 1992, during an all night horror film marathon hosted by Dr. Walpurgis (later named Dr. Terror) Guy Henry unfortunately resulted in the censored version being aired by mistake.\n\nThe story is set in 18th century Spain. A beggar is imprisoned by a cruel marquis after making inappropriate remarks at the nobleman's wedding. The beggar is forgotten, and survives another fifteen years. His sole human contact is with the jailer and his beautiful mute daughter (Yvonne Romain). The aging, decrepit Marques makes advances on the jailer's daughter while she is cleaning his room. When she refuses him, the Marques has her thrown into the dungeon with the beggar. The beggar, driven mad by his long confinement, rapes her and then dies.\n\nThe girl is released the next day and sent to \"entertain\" the Marques Siniestro. She kills the old man and flees. She is found in the forest by the kindly gentleman-scholar Don Alfredo Corledo (Clifford Evans) who lives alone with his housekeeper Teresa (Hira Talfrey). The warm and motherly Teresa soon nurses the girl back to health, but she dies after giving birth to a baby on Christmas Day, a fact that Teresa considers \"unlucky\", because a child born on Christmas Day would become a werewolf.\n\nAlfredo and Teresa raise the boy, whom they name Leon. Leon is cursed by the evil circumstances of his conception and by his Christmas Day birth. An early hunting incident gives him a taste for blood, which he struggles to overcome. Soon, a number of goats are found dead, and a herder's dog is blamed.\n\nThirteen years later, Leon as a young man (Oliver Reed) leaves home to seek work at the Gomez vineyard. Don Fernando Gomez (Ewen Solon) sets Leon to work in the wine cellar with Jose Amadayo (Martin Matthews) with whom he soon forms a friendship. Leon falls in love with Fernando's daughter, Cristina (Catherine Feller), and becomes despondent at the seeming impossibility of marrying her, and allows Jose take him to a nearby brothel, where he transforms and kills Vera and Jose, then returning to Alfredo's house. Too late, he learns that Cristina's loving presence prevents his transformation, and he is about to run away with her when he is arrested and jailed on suspicion of murder. He begs to be executed before he changes again, but the mayor does not believe him. His wolf nature rising to the surface, he breaks out of his cell, killing an Old Soak and the Gaoler. Shocked and disgusted by his appearance, the local people summon his scholarly stepfather, who has obtained a silver bullet made from a crucifix blessed by an archbishop. Though torn with grief, Alfredo shoots Leon dead and tearfully covers his body with a cloak.\n\nHoward Thompson of \"The New York Times\" wrote that some of the color photography was \"beautiful,\" adding that \"for a werewolf yarn this Hammer Production has a Gothic type of narrative that is not uninteresting, if broadly acted.\" \"Harrison's Reports\" graded the film as \"Good,\" finding the production values \"a big asset\" although the review felt there was \"not enough action.\" \"Variety\" called it \"an outstanding entry of the horror picture genre. Although not a particularly frightening or novel story treatment of the perennial shock film topic (werewolves ranking second only to vampires in cinema), it is a first-class effort in other respects.\" \"The Monthly Film Bulletin\" wrote, \"Even by Hammer standards, this is a singularly repellent job of slaughter-house horror ... Surely the time has come when a film like this should be turned over to the alienists for comment; as entertainment its stolid acting, writing, presentation and direction could hardly be more preclusive.\"\n\nIn North America, the film was released on 6 September 2005 along with seven other Hammer horror films on the 4-DVD set \"The Hammer Horror Series\" (ASIN: B0009X770O), which is part of MCA-Universal's \"Franchise Collection\". This set was re-released on Blu-ray on 13 September 2016. The film received an individual release with a new 4K scan in April 2020. The new release included a new commentary track by Steven Haberman, a featurette the on the making of the film, make up artist Roy Ashton, “Lycanthrophy: The Beast In All Of Us” and stills from the film.\n\nThe film was adapted into a 15-page comic strip for the January 1978 issue of the magazine \"The House of Hammer\" (volume 1, # 10, published by General Book Distribution). It was drawn by John Bolton from a script by Steve Moore. The cover of the issue featured a painting by Brian Lewis as Leon in human and werewolf forms.\n\nMany of the characters in Joe Dante's 1981 werewolf movie \"The Howling\" are named after the directors of werewolf films. Belinda Balaski's character \"Terri Fisher\" is named for Terence Fisher, who directed \"The Curse of the Werewolf\".\n\n\"The Curse of the Werewolf\" is also referred to obliquely in John Landis's 1981 werewolf movie \"An American Werewolf in London\" when David Kessler (David Naughton) asks Alex Price (Jenny Agutter) \"Did you ever see \"The Wolf Man\"?\" and Alex replies, \"Is that the one with Oliver Reed?\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2093587", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093587", "title": "Desperate Measures (film)", "text": "Desperate Measures (film)\n\nDesperate Measures is a 1998 American action thriller film starring Michael Keaton, Andy García, Marcia Gay Harden and Brian Cox, directed by Barbet Schroeder. It was filmed in both the San Francisco Bay Area and downtown Pittsburgh with such landmarks as the BNY Mellon Center, the Allegheny County Courthouse and the Oakland Bay Bridge. The film was released on January 30, 1998 and was a critical and financial failure. However, Andy García won an ALMA Award for \"Outstanding Actor in a Feature Film in a Crossover Role\".\n\nSan Francisco police officer Frank Conner is in a frantic search for a compatible bone marrow donor for his leukemia-stricken son, Matt. In desperation, he breaks into FBI headquarters and finds a perfect match. Unfortunately, it is Peter McCabe, a sociopath who is serving life in prison for several murders. During his time in prison, the brutal, cunning McCabe has attempted escape and killed several guards and fellow prisoners, and must be kept in multiple restraints when out of his isolation cell.\n\nMcCabe initially shows little interest in helping Conner, but later finds an opportunity to turn the situation to his advantage and devises a plot to escape. Biding his time, McCabe plays chess against a computer, easily defeating the program, and expresses the need for a challenge akin to Garry Kasparov or Deep Blue. Meanwhile, Conner, along with police captain Cassidy and Matt's physician, Dr. Hawkins, prepare for McCabe to be transferred to the hospital for the transplant.\n\nAt the hospital, McCabe is given a sedative. With the aid of a counteracting drug he had obtained from a fellow inmate, McCabe slips out of his restraints, attacks the guards and attempts to escape. Conner and a fellow officer corner him, but McCabe holds a scalpel to Hawkins' throat, prompting Conner to drop his gun. The other officer gets the drop on McCabe, but Hawkins warns the police that if he dies, his bone marrow becomes useless. Conner stands in the way of the other officer; McCabe takes his gun and shoots the officer.\n\nAfter hearing what happened, Cassidy immediately orders Conner off the case and removed from the scene. Conner breaks free to search the hospital for McCabe on his own. McCabe causes an explosion with propane tanks, seizes control of the hospital's adjacent wing, holds guards hostage and orders a lockdown of the building.\n\nConner and Hawkins make their way to McCabe and convince him to let them inside so that Hawkins can attend to Matt. As McCabe watches Conner on the security cameras, he realizes that his nemesis is a truly devoted father, and develops a grudging respect for him. Conner intervenes when McCabe is about to ambush Cassidy and his SWAT team with a set of tanks of cyclopropane. Cassidy is furious that Conner continues to aid an escaped convict, while McCabe is angry that Conner foiled his plan. He kidnaps Matt and descends to the sub-levels of the building.\n\nMatt tries to wound McCabe to give his father a better chance; impressed, McCabe spares Matt and leaves him at the hospital for Conner to find. McCabe then escapes into San Francisco, where he steals a car. Conner chases McCabe to a bridge, still needing him captured alive. Cassidy and his men arrive in a helicopter and a sniper opens fire. Conner again shields McCabe and is wounded in the arm. McCabe attempts to flee, but Conner is determined not to let him go. Conner wounds McCabe, sending him off the bridge and into the bay. Conner then dives in and saves him.\n\nBack in the hospital, a wounded McCabe agrees to the transplant, which saves Matt's life. Even though his career is clearly over, Conner is overjoyed that his son will live. McCabe is informed by a guard that the surgery went well. As the bed reclines upwards and McCabe looks at the guard menacingly, the guard suddenly realizes that his gun is gone. McCabe holds it over the guard and asks, \"What kind of car do you have?\".\n\n\nOn Rotten Tomatoes the film has an approval rating of 17% based on reviews from 30 critics. Audiences polled by CinemaScore gave the film an average grade of \"B-\" on an A+ to F scale.\n\nLisa Schwarzbaum of \"Entertainment Weekly\" wrote, \"By the time \"Desperate Measures\" degenerates into an old-fashioned car chase, you may wish you were watching \"General Hospital\". Although I suspect there is plenty of bone-marrow-and leukemia-related preposterousness here, my limited medical education precludes me from informed eyeball rolling. I may not be a doctor, but I know a movie with iron-poor blood when I see one.\" Online film critic James Berardinelli stated, \"when you consider how many contrivances the characters have to endure to reach the ending, you may think that the title has more to do with the film makers' approach than with anything that happens on screen.\"\n\nALMA Awards (1999)\n\nThis film was remade in Hindi by the title \"Jung\" starring Sanjay Dutt.\n\n"}
{"id": "2093589", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093589", "title": "Alkane metathesis", "text": "Alkane metathesis\n\nAlkane metathesis is a class of chemical reaction in which an alkane is rearranged to give a longer or shorter alkane product. It is similar to olefin metathesis, except that olefin metathesis cleaves and recreates a carbon-carbon double bond, but alkane metathesis operates on a carbon-carbon single bond.\n\nAlkane metathesis is catalyzed by metal-containing compounds or complexes. One such class of catalyst systems, discovered and developed by the group of Jean-Marie Basset, comprises tantalum hydride supported on silica (SiO)TaH at temperatures of 25°C to 200°C. These systems catalyze the conversion of ethane to give methane, propane and traces of butane. Cross metathesis can also take place, for example methane and propane can react to give two molecules of ethane. Ethane reacts with toluene to give ethylbenzene and xylene. The reaction involves metallocyclobutane intermediates just as in olefin metathesis.\n\nDual-catalyst systems have also been developed which are effective for the metathesis of higher alkanes. These systems are based on the tandem operation of two catalysts, one for transfer-dehydrogenation and one for olefin metathesis. \n\nA heterogeneous system consisting of Pt on alumina mixed with W oxide on silica was reported by Burnett and Hughes. Systems based on pincer-iridium dehydrogenation catalysts and either \"Schrock-type\" Mo-based olefin metathesis catalysts have been reported by Brookhart and Goldman. Because the iridium-based catalysts show selectivity for the termini of n-alkanes, these systems have the unique ability to effect alkane metathesis with some selectivity for product molecular weight. Thus for example n-hexane can be converted to ethane and n-decane as the major products.\n\nNumerous applications for alkane metathesis involving petrochemicals and fuels can be envisaged. For example, the conversion of n-hexane to n-decane and ethane has been proposed for the purpose of improving the overall yield of diesel grade n-alkane (CH to CH) from Fischer-Tropsch reactors, which convert syngas to a broad range of n-alkanes. \n\nScott, Goldman and Brookhart have reported the metathesis of cycloalkanes with the pincer-Ir/Mo system. Cyclooctane (cyclo-CH), for example is converted to a mixture of cyclohexadecane (cyclo-CH) and higher rings as well as polymers.\n"}
{"id": "2093601", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093601", "title": "Molli railway", "text": "Molli railway\n\nThe Molli (\"German: Mecklenburgische Bäderbahn \"Molli\"\"; short: MBB; also: Molli Bahn or Mollibahn) is a narrow-gauge steam-powered railway in Mecklenburg, running on gauge track. It operates between Bad Doberan, Heiligendamm and Kühlungsborn West over a total distance of 15.4 km with a running time of 40 minutes. Within Bad Doberan the line runs through the street, and later along a linden tree-lined avenue. Between Heiligendamm and Kühlungsborn the tracks run parallel to the Baltic Sea beach across fields.\n\nOn 19 June 1886 Frederick Francis III, Grand Duke of Mecklenburg granted a licence for the construction and operation of a narrow gauge railway from Doberan station to Heiligendamm, this first section going into operation on 9 July 1886. It was built by the private railway construction and operating company of Lenz & Co. from Stettin (now \"Szczecin\") and run by the Doberan-Heiligendamm Railway (DHE). Services on the 6.61-kilometre-long route, which was worked by a steam tram and later classified as a light railway or \"Kleinbahn\", initially only ran during the summer season from 1 May to 30 September. On 13 March 1890 the Grand Duchy of Mecklenburg-Schwerin nationalized the line and incorporated it into the Grand Duchy of Mecklenburg Friedrich-Franz Railway.\n\nOn 18 December 1908 it was decided to extend the line as far as the Baltic seaside resort of Arendsee, which was merged in 1938 with the neighbouring communities of Brunshaupten and Fulgen to form the Baltic Sea resort of Kühlungsborn (\"Ostseebad Kühlungsborn\"). This extension was opened on 12 May 1910, at the same time the Heiligendamm station was moved about 200 metres further south. In the same year, goods services were started; and trains now ran all year round. From 1 April 1920 it became part of the Deutsche Reichsbahn.\n\nThe transhipment of goods from the Wismar–Rostock standard gauge line to the narrow gauge railway proved to be costly and unprofitable. The carriage of standard gauge wagons on narrow gauge transporter wagons as was common, for example, on the Saxon narrow gauge railways, was ruled out from the outset because of the narrow urban section through Bad Doberan. Thus, on 31 May 1969, goods services were withdrawn.\n\nThe route was worked daily by 13 pairs of trains. In 1976, the then district of Rostock added the train to the district's list of heritage monuments. On 1 October 1995, an operating company, consisting of Bad Doberan district and the towns of Kühlungsborn and Bad Doberan, took over the line from the Deutsche Bahn. Today the public-private company, operating under the name of \"Mecklenburgische Bäderbahn Molli\" (Mecklenburg Seaside Resort Railway Molli) is based in Bad Doberan. This railway company is not to be confused with the \"Mecklenburgische Bäderbahn AG\", which opened the Rövershagen Kleinbf - Graal-Müritz line on 1 July 1925, running it until 1949 when the East German Deutsche Reichsbahn took over the enterprise. The terminus of Kühlungsborn West is home to the Molli Museum and the depot.\n\nOn 27 February 1997, the \"Mecklenburgische Bäderbahn Molli\", together with the transport companies of \"Rostocker Straßenbahn\", DB Regio AG Nordost, \"Regionalverkehr Küste\", Weiße Flotte and \"antaris\" founded the Warnow Transport Association (\"Verkehrsverbund Warnow\"). Since then, the Molli Railway accepts weekly and monthly passes from the association's range of services. Tickets from the Deutsche Bahn pricing system, including the state tickets and the Schönes-Wochenende-Ticket (\"Happy Weekend Ticket\"), are however not recognized since the change of operator.\n\nThe Molli received worldwide renown as the official and only means of transport for representatives of the press at the G8 summit in Heiligendamm in 2007. From 30 May 2007 to 9 June 2007 the train service was cancelled owing to the G8-summit at Heiligendamm. The tracks between Heiligendamm and Bad Doberan were damaged during the summit so that the train services were cancelled for two further days.\n\nAt start-up, two locomotives were available. These engines were later classified as Mecklenburg Class XVIIIs were designed as tram locomotives and were in use until 1915. In 1891 and 1898 the fleet was expanded with triple-coupled locomotives of Class XIX.\n\nFrom 1910, locomotives of Class T 7 (later 99 301-303) worked the line. At the same time, the Class XIX locomotives were transferred to the Neubukow Beet Railway. The locomotive fleet was reinforced in 1923 by the DR Class 99.31 (99 311-313). These locomotives were all mustered out.\n\nIn 1932, the Deutsche Reichsbahn had the much larger, faster and more powerful locomotives of DR Class 99.32 (99 321-323) built. These three locomotives are still working under the numbers 99 2321 to 2323. In 1961, three additional locomotives came to the line from the Wismut industrial railways and were classified as DR Class 99.33 (99 331-333). One of the three, no. 99 331 (later 99 2331), is working and acts as a reserve or as a train locomotive in winter (due to its lower risk of derailment). No. 99 332 is a monument at the Molli Museum at Bad Kühlungsborn West station; loco no. 99 333 was scrapped.\n\nIn 2009, the locomotive 99 2324 was built for the Molli Railway at the Meiningen Steam Locomotive Works. It is a replica of a standard locomotive, the DR Class 99.32. This was the first steam locomotive to be built in Germany for regular operations in almost half a century. The reconstruction was based on historic plans using modern manufacturing techniques. To get the rush of photographers out of the way, the new engine bore the running numbers of its sister engines of the same class during trials before being officially accepted into service.\n\nOwing to the low tourist demand in the winter, half the trains are cancelled and replaced by the so-called \"Mollibus\". This bus is route number 121 and runs from Rostock Bus station via Bad Doberan, Heiligendamm and Kühlungsborn to Rerik. It is operated by \"Küstenbus GmbH\". Only buses between Bad Doberan and Kühlungsborn are called \"Mollibus\" - not all buses drive the whole route. Some buses operate in the summer also in the morning and evening because of the low demand.\n\nThe Mecklenburg duo \"De Plattfööt\" sing in their cheerful song, \"Holiday up`n Molli an de See\", about the Mollibahn in Low German. It was released in 1989 on the AMIGA LP \"Wenn du ok Plattfööt hest\" (if you have flat feet too). Furthermore, De Plattfööt sing in their song \"De Isenbahnboomupundal-dreier\" (the railway-barrier-up-and-down-winder) about a railway crossing guard's everyday life.\n\nSince the 1990s, the Molli has also been one of the main ways of getting to the Zappanale, a festival held every summer dedicated to the music of Frank Zappa. The site for the past few years has been the Gallopenrennbahn (racecourse) about halfway between Bad Doberan and the coast. It is not very often that fans go to a rock festival by steam train.\n\n"}
{"id": "2093602", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093602", "title": "Info Exame", "text": "Info Exame\n\nInfo Exame (or simply \"Info\", stylized as \"INFO\") was a high-popular Brazilian technology magazine. Its name was \"Exame Informática\" initially, a reference to its creation as the technology supplement for \"Exame\", a business magazine. It was popular with technology non-experts because of its simple-language approach to IT-related topics. The headquarters was in Sao Paulo.\n\nBesides the magazine, the INFO brand was a reference in digital tendencies, sciences, culture and entrepreneurism. It is the inspiration for those who want to understand – in an instigating and good-humored way – the impact innovations have on our lives and our business.\n\nThe magazine ceased its publication in August 2015, becoming again a supplement in the \"Exame\" magazine. Its website now redirects to Exame website technology section.\n\n\nIs a special magazine's team destined to test the last-generation products bought by the magazine before their market release.\n\nIt is a system used by the laboratory's team to classify the products reviewed. This grade system was announced in 2002 and it was the official grade system until the end of the magazine:\n\nOn December of every year the magazine makes a special edition with 30 pages or more only with reviews about the products that will be released in the following year.\n\nHere is a list of the worldly best-selling products that passed through \"Info Laboratory\" before getting huge fame:\n\n"}
{"id": "2093608", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093608", "title": "Name of Romania", "text": "Name of Romania\n\nThe name of Romania (România) comes from the Romanian \"Român\", which is a derivative of the Latin adjective \"Romanus\" (Roman). Romanians are a people living in Central and South-Eastern Europe speaking a Romance language.\n\nDuring the transition from Vulgar Latin to Romanian, there were some phonetical changes that modified \"romanus\" into \"român\" or \"rumân\". The accusative form \"romanum\" was retained.\n\nA reference to the name \"Romanian\" could be contained in the \"Nibelungenlied\" (written between 1180 and 1210), where a \"\"Duke Ramunc of Walachia,/with seven hundred vassals, galloped up before her/like flying wild birds men saw them ride\"\". It is argued that \"\"Ramunc\"\" could describe a symbolic figure, representing Romanians. In a document issued about the same period (1190 ?) by King Béla III of Hungary the then recent uprising of the Bulgarians and Vlachs is mentioned with the words \"against the fury of the Bulgarians and Romanians\" \n\nIn the Renaissance Romanians begin to be mentioned in journey and political reports, providing information about the name they give themselves, about their language, customs and the countries they inhabit. The self-designation of Romanians as Romans is mentioned in some 30 scholarly works as early as the 16th century by mainly Italian humanists travelling in Transylvania, Moldavia and Walachia. Thus, Tranquillo Andronico writes in 1534 that Romanians (Valachi) \"now call themselves Romans\". In 1532, Francesco della Valle accompanying Governor Aloisio Gritti to Transylvania, Walachia and Moldavia notes that Romanians preserved the name of the Romans (\"Romani\") and \"they call themselves in their language Romanians (Romei)\". He even cites the sentence \"\"Sti Rominest ?\"\" (\"do you speak Romanian ?\" for originally Romanian \"știi românește ?\") Further, this author reports what he could learn from local orthodox monks, that \"in the present they call themselves Romanians (Romei)\" . Reporting his mission in Transylvania, the Neapolitan Jesuit Ferrante Capeci writes around 1575 that the inhabitants of those Provinces call themselves \"\"Romanians\"\" (\"\"romanesci\"\"), while Pierre Lescalopier, relating his voyage from Venice to Constantinople, notes in 1574 that those inhabiting Walachia, Moldavia and the most part of Transylvania say to be descendants of the Romans, calling their language \"\"romanechte\"\" (French transcription for Romanian \"românește\" - Romanian). The Italian Dalmatian historian Johannes Lucius writes in 1666: \"\"But the to-day Walachians, whatever Walachian language they speak, don't call themselves Wlachians or Walachians but Romanians and they boast their origin from the Romans and acknowledge to speak the Roman language\"\" \n\nOther first-hand evidence about the name Romanians used to call themselves comes from authors having lived in Transylvania and/or Romanian principalities: the learned Lutheran preacher and first Transylvanian Saxon historiograph Johann Lebel attests in 1542 that \"common Romanians call themselves \"Romuini\"\", the Polish Humanist Stanislaus Orichovius notes as late as 1554 that \"\"these left behind Dacians in their own language are called Romini, after the Romans, and Walachi in Polish, after the Italians\"\". Another humanist, who took up residence in Transylvania as a bishop of Alba Iulia, the Dalmatian Antonius Verantio, who later would become cardinal and viceroy of Habsburg Hungary, also states in 1570 that \"the Wallachians call themselves Romans\" and provides an example: \"When they ask somebody whether they can speak Wallachian, they say: do you speak Roman? and [when they ask] whether one is Wallachian they say: are you Roman?\" \n\nHistorical Romanian documents display two spelling forms of \"Romanian\": \"\"român\"\" and \"\"rumân\"\". For centuries, both spelling forms are interchangeably used, sometimes in the same phrase.\n\nIn the 17th century the term \"Romanian\" also appears as \"Rumun\" (Johann Tröster), \"Rumuny\" (Paul Kovács de Lisznyai), \"Rumuin\" (Laurentius Toppeltinus), and \"Rumen\" (Johannes Lucius and Martin Szentiványi).\n\nIn the Middle Ages the ethno-linguistical designation \"rumân/român\" also denoted \"common people\". During the 17th century, as serfdom becomes a widespread institution, \"common people\" increasingly turns into \"bondsman\". In a process of semantic differentiation in 17th-18th centuries the form \"rumân\", presumably usual among lower classes, got merely the meaning of \"bondsman\", while the form \"\"român\"\" kept an ethno-linguistic meaning. After the abolition of the serfage by Prince Constantine Mavrocordato in 1746, the form \"\"rumân\"\" gradually disappears and the spelling definitively stabilises to the form \"\"român\", \"românesc\"\".\n\nThe earliest preserved document written in the Romanian language is a 1521 letter that notifies the mayor of Brașov about an imminent attack by the Turks. This document, known as Neacșu's Letter, is also notable for having the first occurrence of \"Romanian\" in a Romanian text, Wallachia being called here \"the Romanian Land\"—\"Țeara Rumânească\" (Țeara < Latin \"Terra\" = land). As in the case of the ethnonym \"român/rumân\", Romanian documents use both forms, \"Țara Românească\" and \"Țara Rumânească\", for the country name.\n\nA common Romanian area called \"The Romanian Land\" and embracing Wallachia, Moldavia and Transylvania is mentioned by the chronicler Miron Costin in the 17th century. \n\nIn the first half of the 18th century the erudite prince Dimitrie Cantemir systematically used the name \"Țara Românească\" for designating all three Principalities inhabited by Romanians.\n\nActually, as argued by Ioan-Aurel Pop, the name \"Romania\" isn't but a version of the name \"Romanian Land\", just as in England - Anglia, or Scotland - Scotia.\n\nThe etymology of \"\"România\"\" didn't follow the Romanian pattern of word formation for country names, which usually adds the suffix \"-ia\" to the ethnonym by keeping its accent, like in \"\"grec\" → \"Grecia\", \"Bulgar\" → \"Bulgaria\", \"rus → \"Rusia\"\", etc. Since it is a self-designation, the word \"\"România\"\" has an older history, coming from \"\"românie\"\" which in turn resulted as a derivation of the word \"\"român\"\" by adding the suffix \"-ie\" with an accented last syllable, like in \"\"\"moș → moșie\", \"domn\" → \"domnie\"\" or \"\"boier\" → \"boierie\"\" (lord → lordship). Initially, \"\"românie\"\" may indeed have meant \"\"Romanianship\"\" (just like \"\"rumânie\"\" meant \"\"serfdom\"\" before disappearing), as suggested by Nicolae Iorga's theory of the \"\"Romaniae\"\", i.e. self-organized communities of romanophone peasants all across medieval Europe. \n\nThe name \"România\" as common homeland of the Romanians is documented in the early 19th century.\n\nThe name \"Romania\" (România) was first brought to Paris by young Romanian intellectuals in the 1840s, where it was spelled \"Roumanie\" in order to differentiate Romanians (fr.: Roumains) from Romans (fr.: Romains). The French spelling version (Roumanie) spread then over many countries, such as Britain, Spain, Italy, Germany.\n\nIn English, the name of the country was originally borrowed from French \"Roumania\" (<\"Roumanie\"), then evolved into \"Rumania\", but was eventually replaced after World War II by the name used officially: \"Romania\". With a few exceptions such as English and Hungarian (\"Románia\"), in most languages, the \"u\" form is still used (German and Swedish: \"Rumänien\"; Bulgarian: \"Румъния\"; Serbian: \"Румунија / Rumunija\", Polish: \"Rumunia\", etc.). In Portuguese, to distinguish them from the Romans, the Romanians are called \"romenos\" and their country \"Roménia\". The \"e\" reflects the distinct quality of the Romanian \"â\", even though it's not very similar.\n\nAfter the Communist seizure of power, a spelling reform simplified the Romanian alphabet substituting \"î\" for \"â\".\nThe name of the country became officially \"Republica Populară Romînă\".\nSoon an exception was made to allow \"â\" for \"român\" and its derivations, while \"î\" kept used elsewhere.\nSince, and even after the post-Communist spelling reform, \"român\" is spelled with \"a\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2093609", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093609", "title": "Trebuchet MS", "text": "Trebuchet MS\n\nTrebuchet MS is a humanist sans-serif typeface that Vincent Connare designed for the Microsoft Corporation in 1996. It is named after the trebuchet, a medieval siege engine. The name was inspired by a puzzle question that Connare heard at Microsoft headquarters: \"Can you make a trebuchet that could launch a person from main campus to the new consumer campus about a mile away? Mathematically, is it possible and how?\" Connare \"thought that would be a great name for a font that launches words across the Internet\". Trebuchet MS was the font used for the window titles in the Windows XP default theme, succeeding MS Sans Serif and Tahoma. Released free of charge by Microsoft as part of their core fonts for the Web package, it remains one of the most popular body text fonts on webpages.\n\nConnare said in 2011 that \"inspiration came from many sources such as the motorway signage in America and sans serif typefaces like Akzidenz Grotesk and Alternate Gothic.\" Writing on Typophile in 2005 and also in his 1997 article on Trebuchet, he also noted that a goal was to provide a typeface that worked well onscreen while providing a contrast in texture to Verdana.\n\nFeatures of Trebuchet include:\n\nMicrosoft refers to Trebuchet MS as \"a good web design font\", being one of their \"Core fonts for the Web\". Trebuchet MS is included with several products, including the Windows operating system, components of the Office productivity suite, and Internet Explorer.\n\nIn some versions of the font (those shipped with Windows 2000 and early versions of Internet Explorer), the opening quotation mark character was flipped vertically like so, ‟. This error was fixed in later versions.\n\nTrebuchet MS has been released with the Microsoft Windows operating system since Microsoft Windows 2000. The typeface has been released with Internet Explorer since version 4.0 and Microsoft Word since Word 2000. It is also included with macOS, iOS and Chrome OS.\n\nThe Trebuchet 2010 font family was introduced by Ascender Corp in July 2010 as part of the Ascender 2010 Font Pack. In addition to extensive OpenType typographic feature support, the family was extended with new black and black italic fonts. The new weights and OpenType features were developed by Ascender’s Steve Matteson and Terrance Weinzierl.\n\nIn 2010 Ascender and Microsoft released an expanded version of Trebuchet for commercial sale. This included additional features such as small caps, stylistic alternates and text figures, as well as an additional Black weight with italic.\n\n"}
{"id": "2093611", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093611", "title": "Madden NFL 99", "text": "Madden NFL 99\n\nMadden NFL 99 (sometimes shortened to Madden 99) is a football video game released for the PlayStation, Nintendo 64 and Microsoft Windows. It was the first multiplatform Madden game to be fully 3D (and the second one following the N64-exclusive \"Madden Football 64\"). The game's commentary was done by John Madden and Pat Summerall. The American versions feature John Madden himself on the cover, while the European versions used Garrison Hearst instead. The game was the top selling PlayStation sports video game in 1998 in North America, having sold 1.1 million copies on the PlayStation.\n\n\n\nThe Denver Broncos had the best team overall in the game with a score of 92. The worst teams in the game were the New York Jets and the Miami Dolphins with a score of 70. The best offense in the game belongs to the Green Bay Packers with a score of 95. The best defense in the game belongs to the San Francisco 49ers with a score of 97. The best special teams in the game belongs to the New England Patriots with a perfect score of 100.\n\n\"Next Generation\" reviewed the PlayStation version of the game, rating it two stars out of five, and stated that \"It can be argued that this year's \"Madden\" was better than last year's, but the fact remains that compared to its main competitior, the gaming experience has become more mediocre. The gap that had existed between the \"GameDay\" series and the \"Madden\" series can now only be described as Grand Canyon size.\"\n\nThe game received \"favorable\" reviews on all platforms according to video game review aggregator GameRankings.\n"}
{"id": "2093612", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093612", "title": "Madden NFL 2001", "text": "Madden NFL 2001\n\nMadden NFL 2001 is an American football video game. It is the third in the Madden NFL series to include an NFL player, Tennessee Titans running back Eddie George, on its cover (the first being \"Madden NFL '95\", which featured Erik Williams and Karl Wilson along with Madden himself). In addition, it is the first game in the series to have a player, instead of John Madden featured prominently on the box art. Instead, his picture is shown on a small logo, which would reappear for every following game until Madden NFL 06. It is also the first game in the Madden NFL series to appear on the PlayStation 2 game console. This is the first Madden game to feature NFL Europe teams.\n\nMadden NFL 2001 includes several customizable modes. Players have the ability to create a play, create a player, run a franchise, and collect Madden Cards, allowing players to perform certain actions during gameplay (for example, adding 5th downs, or limiting the CPU-controlled team to 3rd downs). The cards can also alter individual player ratings, unlock special stadiums, and unlock Hall of Fame and All-Madden teams.\n\nOnly the PC and PlayStation Version allowed the player to create a team via the rosters menu and the PlayStation 2 version have Madden Cards (297 total).\n\nThe best teams in the game overall were the Jacksonville Jaguars and the St. Louis Rams with a score of 95. The worst team in the game overall was the San Diego Chargers with the score of 70. The best offense in the game belongs to the St. Louis Rams with the score of 95. A 3-way tie for the best defense in the game belongs to the Tampa Bay Buccaneers, the Baltimore Ravens and the Jacksonville Jaguars with scores of 95. The best special teams in the game belong to the Denver Broncos with the score of 95.\n\nThe game also contains 35 Great Games that unlocks the additional teams and stadiums on PC, N64, and PS.\n\n\"Madden NFL 2001\" comes with over 60 teams and over 40 stadiums. Most of the teams and stadiums are fictional like the Mummies and the Marshalls. Each fictional team has its unique type of player [for instance the mummies players would be mummies, and the marshall's players would be actual cowboys]. Fictional Stadiums are like Hot Stove Stadium for example.\n\nThe game was met with universal acclaim to a mixed reception. GameRankings and Metacritic gave it a score of 90.78% and 91 out of 100 for the PlayStation 2 version; 88.65% and 90 out of 100 for the PlayStation version; 84.82% and 89 out of 100 for the Nintendo 64 version; 79.36% and 78 out of 100 for the PC version; and 62% for the Game Boy Color version.\n\n\"Official UK PlayStation Magazine\" gave the PlayStation version a score of nine out of ten and the Starplayer Award and said that it \"expertly mixes arcade action with sim-deep stats and playbooks\". In Japan, \"Famitsu\" gave the PS2 version a score of 35 out of 40.\n\nRob Smolka reviewed the PlayStation 2 version of the game for \"Next Generation\", rating it five stars out of five, and stated that \"If you were looking for a reason to buy a PlayStation 2, this is it – superb gameplay, even better graphics, and enough substance to make you forget about all those other, weak launch titles.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2093614", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093614", "title": "Air Resources Laboratory", "text": "Air Resources Laboratory\n\nThe Air Resources Laboratory (ARL) is an air quality and climate laboratory in the Office of Oceanic and Atmospheric Research (OAR) which is an operating unit within the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) in the United States. It is one of seven NOAA Research Laboratories (RLs). In October 2005, the Surface Radiation Research Branch of the ARL was merged with five other NOAA labs to form the Earth System Research Laboratory.\n\nThe Air Resources Laboratory (ARL) studies processes and develops models relating to climate and air quality, including the transport, dispersion, transformation and removal of pollutants from the ambient atmosphere. The emphasis of the ARL's work is on data interpretation, technology development and transfer. The specific goal of ARL research is to improve and eventually to institutionalize prediction of trends, dispersion of air pollutant plumes, air quality, atmospheric deposition, and related variables.\n\nARL provides scientific and technical advice to elements of NOAA and other Government agencies on atmospheric science, environmental problems, emergency assistance (Homeland Security), and climate change.\n\nARL's stated goal is to improve the Nation's ability to protect human and ecosystem health while also maintaining a vibrant economy.\n\nARL's headquarters is located in College Park, Maryland (formerly in Silver Spring, Maryland) and the current Acting Director is Dr. Ariel Stein.\nThe headquarters group develops products to augment the operational product suites of the NOAA service-oriented line offices (particularly the National Weather Service). This includes the research and development of improved dispersion models for emergency response and air quality forecast models. The headquarters group also improves the understanding of climate variability and trends, the exchange of pollutants between the air and land, and the sources of mercury that influence sensitive ecosystems.\n\nAs depicted in the adjacent organization diagram, the ARL operates with four research divisions in Idaho Falls, Idaho; North Las Vegas, Nevada; Oak Ridge, Tennessee; and Research Triangle Park, North Carolina:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2093615", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093615", "title": "Geophagus", "text": "Geophagus\n\nGeophagus is a genus of cichlids that mainly live in South America as far south as Argentina and Uruguay, but a single species, \"G. crassilabris\" is from Panama. They are found in a wide range of freshwater habitats. They are part of a group popularly known as eartheaters and mostly feed by picking up mouthfuls of sediment to sift out food items such as invertebrates, plant material and detritus. The largest species reach up to in standard length. They are often kept in aquariums.\n\nSome cichlids previously included in this genus have been reallocated to \"Biotodoma\", \"Gymnogeophagus\" or \"Satanoperca\". Even with these as separate genera, \"Geophagus\" is currently polyphyletic and in need of further taxonomic revision. There are three main groups:\n\n\nThere are currently 31 recognized species in this genus. Additionally, undescribed species are known.\n\n"}
{"id": "2093617", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093617", "title": "Madden NFL 2000", "text": "Madden NFL 2000\n\nMadden NFL 2000 (also known as Madden 2000) is a football video game. This was the second of the \"Madden NFL\" games to not solely feature John Madden on the cover in North America. The only other one was Madden NFL '95. Most versions of the game cover featured Madden prominently in the foreground, and a recognizable Barry Sanders in a background action graphic. The European PAL edition features only Dorsey Levens on the cover.\n\nThe video at the introduction on the CD-ROM versions of the game is an unnamed track by rapper Ludacris. It was the first \"Madden\" game to be released for the Game Boy Color. It was also the first Madden game to be released on both PC and Mac.\n\nThe Green Bay Packers had the best team overall in the game with a score of 94. The worst team in the game was the Cleveland Browns with a score of 68, although the Philadelphia Eagles were close to being worse, with a rating of 72. The best offense in the game belongs to the Denver Broncos with a score of 97. The best defense in the game belongs to the Miami Dolphins with a score of 96. The best special teams in the game belongs to both the Buffalo Bills and Atlanta Falcons with a score of 97. A limited number of players or their names can now be either created or edited as modified rosters.\n\nFranchise mode had improved somewhat and multiple owners can now participate in the same season. Unlike the previous version, Madden NFL 2000 allows the user to choose if he wants the computer to make his off-season decisions, such as re-sign/release players, draft future stars, etc. For the second straight year, created players can not be added to their respective teams, as well as to the list of free agents. Before a franchise can begin, the player must add all 31 coaches from the 1999 NFL season but its only exclusive to the PC download version.\n\nGreg Orlando reviewed the PlayStation version of the game for \"Next Generation\", rating it three stars out of five, and stated that \"\"Madden\" loyalists will find more to love, but this franchise still plays second fiddle to \"GameDay\".\"\n\nThe game received \"favorable\" reviews on all platforms except the Game Boy Color version, which received \"average\" reviews, according to video game review aggregator GameRankings.\n\nIn the United States, the game's computer version alone sold 155,071 copies by April 2000.\n\n"}
{"id": "2093621", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093621", "title": "Road House (1948 film)", "text": "Road House (1948 film)\n\nRoad House is a 1948 film noir drama directed by Jean Negulesco, with cinematography by Joseph LaShelle. The picture features Ida Lupino, Cornel Wilde, Celeste Holm, and Richard Widmark, among others.\n\nThe drama tells the story of Lily Stevens (Lupino) who takes a job as a singer at a roadhouse—complete with a bowling alley. When Lily dumps the owner Jefty (Widmark) for his boyhood friend Pete Morgan (Wilde), problems begin. They only get worse when Jefty is rejected after proposing to Lily, causing Jefty to go on a murderous rage.\n\nLupino sings the classic Johnny Mercer song \"One for My Baby (and One More for the Road)\" in the film. The song \"Again\", written by Dorcas Cochran (words) and Lionel Newman (music), debuted in this film, and was also sung by her.\n\nPete Morgan manages Jefty's Road House for his longtime friend, Jefferson \"Jefty\" Robbins, who inherited the place from his father. Jefty is attracted to Lily Stevens, his new singer from Chicago, but Pete thinks she is just another in a long string of girls he will eventually have to send on her way when Jefty tires of her. For his part, however, Jefty is convinced that Lily is \"different\", even though she is playing hard-to-get.\n\nAlthough Pete tries to pay Lily off and put her on a train, she is not about to leave and makes a successful debut at the club, accompanying herself on piano. Jefty asks Pete to teach Lily how to bowl in the roadhouse's alley but she shows little interest in the sport and quite a bit more in Pete.\n\nSusie Smith, the club's cashier who is fond of Pete, becomes jealous of Lily. Before Jefty leaves on a hunting trip, he tells Lily that she is not like any other girl he has ever met. Lily tries to join Pete for a boat ride on a lake, but he refuses as she is Jefty's girl. Lily contradicts that notion, so Pete arranges to pick her up later. Susie also goes along, although the women's friendship is decidedly frosty. Later, Pete comes to Lily's rescue when a drunk causes a scene at the club.\n\nLily and Pete share a passionate kiss. Pete loves her, and it is obvious she feels the same way. Their idyll is interrupted when Jefty returns and shows Pete a marriage license he has obtained in his and Lily's names. Pete tells Jefty that he and Lily are planning to be married. Jefty throws him out. Lily and Pete decide to go off together; Pete leaves a note, stating in it that he has taken $600 owed to him.\n\nAt the railroad station, two policemen detain Pete and Lily. Jefty claims that the entire week's receipts have been taken from the roadhouse's safe, but Pete insists he took only $600. After Susie states that the receipts totaled $2,600, Pete is held for trial and Lily accuses Jefty of framing him.\n\nPete is tried and found guilty of grand larceny. Before sentencing, Jefty talks to the judge in private and persuades him to parole Pete into his custody. The judge announces that Pete will be on probation for two years, but will have his job back and will be obligated to repay Jefty from his paycheck. Pete and Lily realize that Jefty has them trapped.\n\nJefty plans a trip to his hunting cabin. Pete wants to cross the Canada–US border, which is only fifteen miles from the road house but Lily refuses to go along, convincing Pete that Jefty wants the two of them to argue and for Pete to run away. At his cabin, Jefty taunts Pete and Lily while fooling around with a rifle. Lily accuses Jefty of taking the missing money, so Jefty hits her. Pete retaliates by knocking him out. Lily decides that she will go with Pete to Canada, which is now only about two miles through the woods and across a stream, and they set off on foot. Susie, meanwhile, discovers a deposit envelope for the receipts in Jefty's coat pocket, proof of Pete's innocence and Jefty's false testimony. She follows and finds the couple. As she gives the envelope to Pete, Susie is shot in the arm by a pursuing Jefty.\n\nIn the fog-enshrouded lakeside, Pete cranks up the motor on Jefty's boat and sends it off empty. After Jefty wastes bullets shooting at the boat, Pete tries to grab his gun. Lily gets possession of it and shoots Jefty when he threatens to hit her with a boulder. As Jefty dies, he reminds Pete that he once told him that Lily was \"different\". Dawn breaks as Pete, Lily and Susie (in Pete's arms) head out of the woods and back to civilization, to a subdued arrangement of Lionel Newman's \"Again\".\n\n\nWriter Spencer Selby calls the film an \"interesting melodrama that has a crisp forties look and slowly builds to a noirish climax.\"\n\nFilm critic Blake Lucas says the film \"impresses first of all with its sharp dialogue exchanges between the characters and the bizarre look of the interiors,\" referring to the at once modern and rustic road house.\n\n"}
{"id": "2093622", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093622", "title": "Fort Walla Walla", "text": "Fort Walla Walla\n\nFort Walla Walla is a United States Army fort located in Walla Walla, Washington. The first Fort Walla Walla was established July 1856, by Lieutenant Colonel Edward Steptoe, 9th Infantry Regiment. A second Fort Walla Walla was occupied September 23, 1856. The third and permanent military Fort Walla Walla was built in 1858 and adjoined Steptoeville, now Walla Walla, Washington, a community that had grown up around the second fort. An Executive Order on May 7, 1859 declared the fort a military reservation containing 640 acres devoted to military purposes and a further 640 acres each of hay and timber reserves. On September 28, 1910 soldiers from the 1st Cavalry lowered the flag closing the fort. In 1917, the fort briefly reopened to train men of the First Battalion Washington Field Artillery in support of action in World War I. In 1921, the fort and property were turned over to the Veterans Administration where 15 original buildings from the military era remain. Today, the complex contains a park, a museum, and the Jonathan M. Wainright Memorial VA Medical Center.\n\n\nUnited States Army Indian Scouts served with troops from Fort Walla Walla until at least 1893. Indian Scouts saved the lives of many of Lt Col Steptoe's personnel during the Battle of Pine Creek. Most scouts came from the Nez Perce tribe.\n\nIn May 1858, the Battle of Pine Creek took place, when Lt Col. Steptoe lead troops north to investigate the reported murder of miners and was forced to retreat after being attacked by a mixed force of Spokane, Palouse, and Coeur d'Alene Indians near present Rosalia, Washington.\n\nIn August 1858, the Battle of Four Lakes took place when Colonel George Wright lead units of the 9th Infantry, 3rd Artillery, and 1st Dragoons in a punitive action after the loss during the Battle of Pine Creek. The force met up with a large force of Indians in the area between present Cheney and Medical Lake. Near Liberty Lake, Colonel Wright's troops captured 800 Indian horses, the principal wealth for the tribes, and slaughtered them leading to the cessation of all hostilities by the tribes.\n\nOn June 17, 1877, soldiers of the 1st Cavalry Regiment were involved in the Battle of White Bird Canyon during the Nez Perce War. More than 30 U. S. soldiers died during the battle. A monument to those killed is at the Fort Walla Walla Cemetery.\n\nBetween July 3 and 5, 1877, members of E and L Companies of the 1st Cavalry engaged the Nez Perce Indians at the Battle of Cottonwood with a loss of ten soldiers. Their remains are also buried in the Fort Walla Walla Cemetery.\n\nNaches Pass road, between Fort Walla Walla and Fort Steilacoom, was built in 1853 by local residents after waiting for Lieutenant George B. McClellan to construct the route. It proved difficult to use with some very steep descents.\n\nThe Fort Walla Walla Fort Colville Military Road was built on the long established native trail and fur trader's route between Walla Walla and Kettle Falls and the Hudson Bay Company's Fort Colville. Captain Pinkney Lugenbeel and his soldiers improved the road to support wagons in June 1859 on their way to build U. S. Fort Colville.\n\nIn July 1859, US Army Lieutenant John Mullan followed the Fort Walla Walla Fort Colville Military Road until just north of Benge, Washington and then built the 600-mile Mullan Road from Fort Walla Walla to Fort Benton, Montana through the Rocky Mountains.\n\nThe Fort Walla Walla Museum comprises 15 acres of the Fort Walla Walla Park, and includes four exhibit halls and a 17-building pioneer village. The museum offers living history performances each season on weekends and children's programs.\n\nThe pioneer village includes several cabins, an outhouse, harness shop, blacksmith shop, schools, a jail, train depot, doctor's office and other structures.\n\nThe exhibit halls include displays of military weapons and artifacts, tools, agricultural equipment, antique vehicles and firefighting vehicles, clothing and textiles.\n\n"}
{"id": "2093628", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093628", "title": "Deconstructing Harry", "text": "Deconstructing Harry\n\nDeconstructing Harry is a 1997 comedy film written and directed by Woody Allen. This film tells the story of a successful writer named Harry Block, played by Allen, who draws inspiration from people he knows in real life, and from events that happened to him, sometimes causing these people to become alienated from him as a result.\n\nThe central plot features Block driving to a university from which he was once thrown out, in order to receive an honorary degree. Three passengers accompany him on the journey: a prostitute, a friend, and his son, whom he has kidnapped from his ex-wife. However, there are many flashbacks, segments taken from Block's writing, and interactions with his own fictional characters. \"Deconstructing Harry\" received moderately positive reviews from critics.\n\nThe film marks Jennifer Garner's movie debut.\n\nOne night, Lucy (Judy Davis) gets a taxi to the home of author Harry Block (Woody Allen). She has just read Harry's latest novel. In the novel, the character Leslie (Julia Louis-Dreyfus) is having an affair with her sister's husband Ken (Richard Benjamin). Lucy is angry because the novel is patently based on her and Harry's own affair; as a result, everyone knows about it. Lucy pulls a gun out of her purse, saying she will kill herself. She then turns the gun on Harry and begins firing. She chases him out onto the roof. Harry insists that he has already been punished: his latest girlfriend Fay (Elisabeth Shue) has left him for his best friend Larry (Billy Crystal). To distract Lucy, Harry tells her a story he is currently writing: a semi-autobiographical story of a sex-obsessed young man named Harvey (Tobey Maguire) who is mistakenly claimed by Death.\n\nIn therapy, Harry realizes he has not changed since he was a sex-obsessed youth. Harry discusses the honoring ceremony at his old university, taking place the next day; he is particularly unhappy that he has nobody with whom to share the occasion. After the session, Harry asks his ex-wife Joan (Kirstie Alley) if he can take their son Hilliard (Eric Lloyd) to the ceremony. She refuses, stating that Harry is a bad influence on Hilliard. She is also furious at Harry for the novel he wrote. In it, the character Epstein (Stanley Tucci) marries Helen (Demi Moore), but the marriage begins to crumble after the birth of their son.\n\nHarry runs into an acquaintance, Richard (Bob Balaban), who is worried about his health. After accompanying Richard to the hospital, Harry asks him to come to the university ceremony. Richard appears uninterested. Harry then goes to meet his ex-girlfriend Fay, who reveals that she is now engaged. Harry begs Fay to get back together with him. He asks Fay to accompany him to his ceremony, but it clashes with Fay's wedding, scheduled the following day.\n\nThat night, Harry sleeps with a prostitute, Cookie (Hazelle Goodman). Harry then asks Cookie to accompany him to his ceremony.\n\nIn the morning, Richard unexpectedly arrives to join Harry and Cookie on the journey. On a whim, Harry decides to \"kidnap\" his son Hilliard. Along the way, they stop at a carnival, then at Harry's half-sister Doris's (Caroline Aaron). Doris, a devoted Jew, is upset by Harry's portrayals of Judaism in his stories, as is her husband (Eric Bogosian). During the journey, Harry also encounters his fictional creations Ken and Helen, who force him to confront some painful truths about his life. Just before arriving at the university, Richard dies peacefully in the car.\n\nWhile filming, Harry's fictional alter ego, Mel (Robin Williams), literally slides out of focus, becoming blurred</ref> IMDb The university's staffers gush over Harry, asking what he plans to write next. He describes a story about a man (based on himself) who journeys down to Hell to reclaim his true love (based on Fay) from the Devil (based on Larry - both being played by Billy Crystal). Harry and the Devil engage in a verbal duel as to who is truly the more evil of the two. Harry gets as far as arguing that he is a kidnapper before the story is interrupted by the arrival of the police. Harry is arrested for kidnapping Hilliard, for possessing a gun (it was Lucy's), and for having drugs in the car (belonging to Cookie).\n\nLarry and Fay come from their wedding to bail Harry out of jail. Harry reluctantly gives them his blessings. Back at his apartment, a miserable Harry fantasizes that the university's ceremony is taking place. Harry realizes that he can only function in art, not in life. The film ends with Harry returning to his writing.\n\n\"Deconstructing Harry\" garnered a 73% approval rating on Rotten Tomatoes from 37 reviews and a 61 out of 100 on Metacritic.\n\nWoody Allen was nominated for an Academy Award for Best Writing, Screenplay Written Directly for the Screen for \"Deconstructing Harry\". The film was also nominated for a Golden Satellite Award for Best Motion Picture — Comedy or Musical.\n\nThe film is a general reworking of his earlier 1980 film \"Stardust Memories\", which also had an artist go to a ceremony in his honor, while reminiscing over past relationships and trying to fix and stabilize current ones.\n\nAllen is an admirer of several European directors whose primary body of work was completed sometimes decades before his first script, and his films in particular often draw upon the works of Ingmar Bergman and Federico Fellini. The rough outline of the plot of \"Deconstructing Harry\", that of an academic on a long drive to receive an honorary award from his old university while reflecting upon his life's experiences, essentially mirrors that of Bergman's \"Wild Strawberries\". Also, the film is similar to Fellini's \"8½\", in that it is about an artist struggling with his current relationships and remembering his old ones, interspersed with dream sequences, as well as his work being based on events from his life.\n\nIt is acknowledged by some critics that Allen based the name of Harry Block on Antonius Block (Max von Sydow), the protagonist from Bergman's \"The Seventh Seal\". Some critics, including Roger Ebert, have suggested that the character of Harry Block is based on real-life author Philip Roth and not on Allen himself.\n\n"}
{"id": "2093629", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093629", "title": "Jason Moss (writer)", "text": "Jason Moss (writer)\n\nJason Michael Moss (February 3, 1975 – June 6, 2006) was an American attorney who specialized in criminal defense. He was best known as the author of \"The Last Victim: A True-Life Journey into the Mind of the Serial Killer\" (1999), a memoir about his exploration of the minds of incarcerated serial killers, which started as a research project in college. He corresponded and conducted personal interviews with several notorious killers.\n\nStruggling with depression, Moss died by suicide in 2006. His book was adapted and produced as a film, \"Dear Mr. Gacy\", released in 2010.\n\nMoss was born in Bethpage, New York in 1975 and attended local schools. He graduated \"summa cum laude\" from the University of Nevada, Las Vegas. As an honors student, he had completed a research project into the minds of serial killers by establishing correspondence with them and gaining interviews. At the age of 19, he met twice with John Wayne Gacy in prison, less than two months before the killer was executed. Shaken by the experience, in which he felt psychologically manipulated, Moss had nightmares. He wrote a book about his project and its effects, co-authored with counseling professor Jeffrey Kottler, and published in 1999 as \"The Last Victim: A True-Life Journey into the Mind of the Serial Killer.\"\n\nAfter college, Moss served internships with the U.S. Secret Service and the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, and Firearms. He decided to go into law and graduated in 2002 from University of Michigan Law School. He set up a criminal defense practice in Henderson, Nevada. He was married to Charlotte Moss.\n\nWhile writing his honors thesis at UNLV, Moss established relationships with convicted, imprisoned serial killers John Wayne Gacy, Richard Ramirez, Henry Lee Lucas, Jeffrey Dahmer, and Charles Manson. He conducted research in order to learn what would most appeal to each of his subjects, and adopted the role of disciple, admirer, surrogate, or potential victim as necessary. He initiated the relationships through correspondence. According to Kottler, Moss studied devil worship and Satanic rituals before contacting Ramirez.\n\nMoss later said that he formed the strongest relationship with Gacy. Their exchange of letters led to regular Sunday morning phone calls, during which Gacy reiterated his innocence. In his book, Moss explored the development of his correspondence with Gacy, shortly before the killer was executed. Moss asserted that he became Gacy's \"last victim\" during their face-to-face meeting. While he understood that he had deliberately lured Gacy, he felt overpowered and manipulated by him, in the same way that he might have manipulated and controlled his victims. Moss felt that his overall experience allowed him to gain an understanding of how a serial killer's mind works.\n\nMoss's book quickly became a bestseller. In 2000 a paperback edition was released, and also made the \"New York Times\" bestseller list. A film adaptation of the book, \"Dear Mr. Gacy\", was released in 2010, starring Jesse Moss (no relation) and William Forsythe.\n\nJason Moss died from a self-inflicted gunshot wound to the head in his Henderson, Nevada home on the morning of June 6, 2006. The significance, if any, of his chosen suicide date (6/6/06) has been the subject of speculation. According to his co-author Kottler, Moss reportedly had delved \"heavily into Satanic stuff\" while researching material to prepare for his correspondence with serial killers and while writing his book, but sounded upbeat in their last conversation before his death.\n\n"}
{"id": "2093635", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093635", "title": "South African Astronomical Observatory", "text": "South African Astronomical Observatory\n\nSouth African Astronomical Observatory (SAAO) is the national centre for optical and infrared astronomy in South Africa. It was established in 1972. The observatory is run by the National Research Foundation of South Africa. The facility's function is to conduct research in astronomy and astrophysics. The primary telescopes are located in Sutherland, which is from Observatory, Cape Town, where the headquarters is located.\n\nThe SAAO has links worldwide for scientific and technological collaboration. Instrumental contributions from the South African Astronomical Observatory include the development of a spherical aberration corrector and the Southern African Large Telescope (SALT).\n\nThe Noon Gun on Cape Town's Signal Hill is fired remotely by a time signal from the Observatory.\n\nThe history of the SAAO began when the Royal Observatory at the Cape of Good Hope was founded in 1820, the first scientific institution in Africa. Construction of the main buildings was completed in 1829 at a cost of £30,000 (equivalent to £ in 2020).\nThe post of \"Her Majesty's astronomer at the Cape of Good Hope\" was awarded the Royal Medal on two occasions; the first to Thomas Maclear in 1869 for measurement of an arc of the meridian at the Cape of Good Hope and the second to David Gill in 1903 for researches in solar and stellar parallax, and his energetic direction of the Royal Observatory at the Cape of Good Hope.\n\nThe Republic Observatory, Johannesburg, was merged with the much older Royal Observatory, Cape of Good Hope in January 1972 to form the South African Astronomical Observatory. In 1974 the Radcliffe Observatory telescope was purchased by the CSIR and moved to Sutherland, where it recommenced work in 1976.\n\nSAAO was established in January 1972, as a result of a joint agreement by the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) of South Africa and Science and Engineering Research Council (SERC) of United Kingdom. The headquarters are located on the grounds of the old Royal Observatory where the main building, offices, national library for astronomy and computer facilities are housed. Historic telescopes are also found at the headquarters in a number of domes and a small museum that displays scientific instruments. The South African Astronomical Observatory is administered at present as a National Facility under management of the National Research Foundation (NRF), formerly the Foundation for Research Development (FRD). In 1974, when the Radcliffe Observatory in Pretoria closed, the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) purchased the 1.9-m Radcliffe telescope and transported it to Sutherland.\n\nThe observatory operates from the campus of the \"Royal Observatory, Cape of Good Hope\" that was established in 1820 in the suburb of Observatory, Cape Town.\n\nThe major observing facilities are however located near the town of Sutherland some from Cape Town.\n\nThis reflector was originally built for the Republic Observatory in 1967, but was moved to the Sutherland site in 1972.\n\nA Grubb Parsons reflector.\n\nThis telescope was originally located at SAAO Head office in Observatory, Cape Town, but has since moved to the Sutherland site. This telescope participates in the PLANET network.\n\nThe 1.9-m (74-inch) Radcliffe Telescope was commissioned for the Radcliffe Observatory in Pretoria where it was in use between 1948 and 1974. Following the closure of the Radcliffe Observatory it was moved to Sutherland where it became operational again in January 1976. Between 1951 and 2004 it was the largest telescope in South Africa. The telescope was manufactured by Sir Howard Grubb, Parsons and Co.\n\nThis telescope was originally called the Automatic Photometric Telescope, but has been renamed the Alan Cousins Telescope in honour of Alan William James Cousins.\n\nOne of six telescopes in the Birmingham Solar Oscillations Network\n\nThe IRSF is a reflector fitted with a 3 colour Infrared Imager. Originally built as part of the \"Magellanic Clouds A Thorough Study\" grant from the Japanese Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology in 2000.\nOther studies the telescope participated in include:\n\nThree telescopes to form part of the LCOGT network were installed in early 2013.\n\nThe MASTER-SAAO Telescope (obs. code: K95) is part of the \"Russian Mobile Astronomical System of Telescope-Robots\". It saw first light on 21 December 2014. It consists of two paired 0.4-m telescopes. In April 2015 it discovered the first comet from South Africa in 35 years, C/2015 G2 (MASTER).\n\nOne of the two telescopes of the MOnitoring NEtwork of Telescopes Project is located at Sutherland. Its twin can be found at the McDonald Observatory in Texas. The MONET telescopes are Robotic telescope controllable via the Internet and was constructed by the University of Göttingen. Remote Telescope Markup Language is used to control the telescopes remotely.\n\nTwo telescopes forming part of Project Solaris is located at the Sutherland site. Solaris-1 and Solaris-2 are both 0.5m f/15 Ritchey–Chrétien telescope. The aims of Project Solaris is to detect circumbinary planets around eclipsing binary stars and to characterise these binaries to improve stellar models.\n\nSALT was inaugurated in November 2005. It is the largest single optical telescope in the Southern Hemisphere, with a hexagonal mirror array 11 meters across. SALT shares similarities with the Hobby-Eberly Telescope (HET) in Texas. The Southern African Large Telescope gathers twenty-five times as much light as any other existing African Telescope. With this larger mirror array, SALT can record distant stars, galaxies and quasars.\n\nThe Wide Angle Search for Planets consists of two robotic telescopes, the one located at SAAO Sutherland and the other at Roque de los Muchachos Observatory on the island of La Palma in the Canaries. WASP-17b, the first exoplanet known to have a retrograde orbit was discovered in 2009 using this array.\n\nKELT-South (\"Kilodegree Extremely Little Telescope South\") is a small robotic telescope that is designed to detect transiting extrasolar planets. The telescope is owned and operated by Vanderbilt University and was based on the design of KELT-North, which was conceived and designed at the Ohio State University, Department of Astronomy. The KELT-South telescope will serve as a counterpart to its northern twin, surveying the southern sky for transiting planets over the next few years.\n\nThe Yonsei Survey Telescopes for Astronomical Research (YSTAR), decommissioned in 2012, was used for the monitoring of variable stars and other transient events. YSTAR was a joint project between SAAO and the Yonsei University, Korea.\n\nThe GeoForschungsZentrum, Potsdam in co-operation with the National Research Foundation of South Africa constructed the SAGOS between 1998 and 2000.\n\nSAGOS consist of a 1 Hz permanent GPS station, a superconducting gravimeter, meteorological sensors, and a tri-axial magnetometer. The GPS station is also used in support of the CHAllenging Minisatellite Payload (\"CHAMP\") and Gravity Recovery and Climate Experiment (\"GRACE\") space missions.\n\nThe SUR station forms part of the International Deployment of Accelerometers Project and the Global Seismographic Network of the Incorporated Research Institutions for Seismology\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2093643", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093643", "title": "Billy Jayne", "text": "Billy Jayne\n\nWilliam Jayne (born April 10, 1969) is an American actor. He has been in many films and has sometimes been credited as Billy Jacoby. His siblings, Robert Jayne, Susan Jayne, Laura Jacoby, as well as his half-brother Scott Jacoby are also actors.\n\nJayne was born in Flushing, New York City, on April 10, 1969. He is of Jewish descent. At the age of three, he was visiting his older half-brother Scott Jacoby on the set of \"That Certain Summer\", for which Scott won an Emmy for Best Supporting Actor. The director needed someone to play Jacoby in flashbacks, and Jayne was selected and began his career.\n\nAlthough Jayne's birth name was not Jacoby, when he started his career his mother thought it would be best if he used Jacoby, the last name of his already established half-brother. At the age of seventeen, however, Billy Jacoby changed his professional name to Billy Jayne to coincide with his birth name.\n\nJayne was a child actor from the mid to late 1980s, starring in numerous guest appearances on TV shows such as \"Trapper John, M.D.\", \"The Golden Girls\", as Blanche's 14-year-old rebellious grandson David, \"The A-Team\", \"21 Jump Street\". He is also known for the role as Buddy, the brother of Terri in \"Just One of the Guys\" from 1985.\n\nJayne is best known for his role in the teen show \"Parker Lewis Can't Lose\", starring alongside actor Corin Nemec. The show ran from 1990 until 1993. After the show ended, he had smaller roles in shows such as \"Renegade\", \"Murder One\" (1995), \"Walker, Texas Ranger\" (1996), \"Charmed\" (1999), \"Cold Case\" in 2009.\n\n"}
{"id": "2093647", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093647", "title": "Jim Magilton", "text": "Jim Magilton\n\nJames Magilton (born 6 May 1969) is a Northern Irish former footballer and manager, who is the elite performance director with the Irish Football Association, and former manager of the Northern Ireland national under-21 football team.\n\nMagilton started his playing career with Liverpool and remained with the club until 1990 when he joined Oxford United. After scoring 34 goals from midfield in 150 league appearances he signed for Southampton in 1994. Three years later he moved to Sheffield Wednesday for two seasons before going on briefly on loan to Ipswich Town – the move was made permanent in 1999.\n\nMagilton's club career ended at Ipswich, having made over 250 league appearances. He moved into management at Ipswich, where he led the club for three years before managing Queens Park Rangers for a brief spell. Magilton also represented his country, making 52 appearances for the Northern Ireland national football team, scoring five goals.\n\nBorn in Belfast at the start of the Troubles, Magilton started out at junior club St Oliver Plunkett, under the guidance of Jackie Maxwell, whose long-term association with the club saw him win the BBC NI Unsung Hero award in 2006. Magilton was a gifted midfield player with an exquisite range of passing who represented Northern Ireland 52 times. He played for Oxford United, Sheffield Wednesday, and Southampton before ending his playing career after seven-and-a-half years at Ipswich.\n\nMagilton served as an apprentice at Liverpool alongside the likes of Steve McManaman and Mike Marsh. He turned professional in 1988 but never made a first team appearance, although he was selected as a (non-playing) substitute in both the 1988 and 1990 Charity Shields, in 1988 Liverpool beat Wimbledon and then two years later shared it with Manchester United in a 1–1 draw, both at Wembley Stadium. He was transferred to Oxford United in October 1990 at the age of 21. There he made 150 League appearances before moving to Southampton in February 1994.\n\nMagilton was Alan Ball's second signing a month after being appointed as Southampton's manager, costing the Saints £600,000. Magilton made his first Saints appearance in a 4–2 victory at The Dell over Liverpool on 14 February 1994 in which match Matthew Le Tissier scored a hat-trick. Magilton soon established himself as a commanding presence in the central midfield role. Magilton was described in Holley & Chalk's \"In That Number \" as \"a neat and indefatigable \"fetcher and carrier\" between penalty areas.\"\n\nIn the 1994–95 season Magilton started all 42 league games (scoring 6 goals) and continued to feature regularly in the following two seasons under managers David Merrington and Graeme Souness. Following Dave Jones' appointment in the summer of 1997, Magilton rejected the offer of a new contract and, after making 156 appearances with Southampton, in September 1997 he moved to Sheffield Wednesday for a fee of £1.6 million. He scored once for Wednesday, in a 1–1 draw with West Ham in April 1998.\n\nHe moved on to Ipswich Town in 1999, first on loan, then as a permanent signing. He scored his only career hat-trick against Bolton Wanderers in the 1999–2000 play-off semi-final, securing the club's place in the play-off finals, and admitting himself that it was his best ever performance. The 2005–06 season was Magilton's last at Ipswich as an active player however he was registered to play for 2006–07 whilst manager.\n\nMagilton originally intended to secure a coaching role at another club, but made a tentative approach to the Board at Ipswich to fill the managerial vacancy after Joe Royle's departure prior to the 2006–07 season. Magilton was appointed as Ipswich manager on 5 June 2006, alongside former Academy Director Bryan Klug. Although registered as a player, Magilton stated that he would play no more games for the first team during the 2006–07 season, but hoped to turn out for the reserve side. In May 2007, Magilton was linked with the Northern Ireland manager's job after it was vacated by Lawrie Sanchez, but the ex-international decided against taking the post, due to his lack of experience.\n\nIn Magilton's first season in charge (2006–07), he led Ipswich to 14th position in the league. Then, in the 2007–08 Season, Magilton lead Town to an 8th-place finish, missing out on the play-offs by a single point. This position was obtained by virtue of Town's excellent home record despite their poor away form. However, despite substantial investment in the squad the team failed to make the play-offs in the 2008–09 season. This led to Magilton being sacked as manager on 22 April 2009.\n\nOn 3 June 2009, Magilton was appointed the Queens Park Rangers manager until June 2011, replacing Paulo Sousa, who was dismissed in April. On 9 December 2009, Magilton was suspended by Queens Park Rangers following an incident at Watford's Vicarage Road. He reportedly head-butted midfielder Ákos Buzsáky after the match in the dressing room. Magilton reportedly head butted the midfielder in a heated exchange although later reports, from an unnamed source, claimed no such headbutt occurred and that the suspension was in response to an ultimatum from Buzsáky. On 16 December 2009, it was announced Magilton had left Queens Park Rangers by mutual consent.\n\nOn 6 July 2011, Magilton was appointed as Shamrock Rovers Assistant manager on a caretaker basis after Trevor Croly resigned. Magilton assisted Michael O'Neill for the remainder of the 2011 season, helping the Hoops to their 2nd league title in as many years as well as reaching the Europa League group stages.\n\nOn 7 January 2012, Magilton was signed as head coach of A-League club Melbourne Victory for the remainder of the 2011–12 season, following the dismissal of Mehmet Durakovic. He took over from interim head coach Kevin Muscat after Melbourne Victory's home game on 7 January 2012 against the Newcastle Jets. Upon being appointed the new coach of Melbourne Victory, Magilton immediately went to work strengthening the squad, signing Australian international defender Mark Milligan on loan from JEF United Ichihara Chiba, Hong Kong based Spanish midfielder Ubay Luzardo on loan from Kitchee SC, and Sierra Leonean-Australian midfielder Julius Davies. In his debut match as Melbourne Victory's coach, Melbourne Victory drew 1–1 with Adelaide United. His first win as coach came in round 19, as Melbourne Victory defeated the Central Coast Mariners 2–1. After a lacklusture tenure as coach, in which the Victory recorded 2 wins, 5 draws and 5 losses in 12 games, the Victory failed to make the finals, causing Magilton to state that the club needed to rebuild the squad and change its culture. He went about attempting to achieve this goal by releasing defender Fabio Alves and veterans Tom Pondeljak and Rodrigo Vargas and signing Gold Coast United defender Adama Traoré and Central Coast Mariners defender Sam Gallagher.\n\nAfter his contract had expired and was not renewed, Magilton left the club on 2 April 2012. It was speculated that Magilton attempted to pursue legal action against the club, on the basis that he had been offered a three-year contract extension, that had then been rescinded., which was confirmed to be a false rumour. With a winning percentage of just 16.67%, Magilton is statistically the worst coach of Melbourne Victory.\n\nOn 21 June 2013, Magilton was appointed the elite performance director by the Irish Football Association, signing a four-year contract.\n\nIn May 2015, Magilton was appointed manager of the Northern Ireland national under-21 football team, with Damien Johnson and Kevin Horlock serving as his assistant coaches, and Mark Crossley serving as goalkeeping coach.\n\n\"Scores and results list Northern Ireland's goal tally first. \"\nLiverpool\n\nIpswich Town\n\n"}
{"id": "2093653", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093653", "title": "Timeline of the 2004 Pacific hurricane season", "text": "Timeline of the 2004 Pacific hurricane season\n\nThe 2004 Pacific hurricane season had 17 tropical cyclones, of which 12 became named storms, 6 became hurricanes, and 3 became major hurricanes (Category 3 or higher). This timeline documents all the storm formations, strengthening, weakening, landfalls, extratropical transitions, as well as dissipation. It also includes information which was not operationally released, meaning that information from post-storm reviews by the National Hurricane Center, such as information on a storm that was not operationally warned on, have been included. The season officially began on May 15, 2004 in the eastern Pacific proper (June 1, 2004 in the central Pacific) and lasted until November 30 that same year. Areas east of 140°W are under the purview of the National Hurricane Center (NHC); the area between the International Date Line and 140°W, or the central Pacific, is under the purview of the Central Pacific Hurricane Center (CPHC).\n\nThe 2004 season got off to an early start with Tropical Storm Agatha, which formed a week after the season began. No tropical cyclones were active in June, the first such occurrence since 1969. July was more active, producing four tropical cyclones. Three of these (Blas, Celia, and Darby) became named storms, two (Celia and Darby) became hurricanes, and Hurricane Darby became the first major hurricane of the season. Additionally, a tropical depression in the central Pacific became the only tropical cyclone to form within the Central Pacific Hurricane Center's area of responsibility during the year. August was the most active month, producing six tropical cyclones, four named storms, and two hurricanes (Frank and Howard). September saw a decline in activity, although all three storms that existed during the month were hurricanes, two of which (Howard and Javier) were major hurricanes. Hurricane Howard, which had formed in August, only became a major hurricane in September. Hurricane Javier – the final storm during the month – was the strongest storm of the season. October saw the final three tropical cyclones of the year; two developed into named storms (Kay and Lester). Neither of these storms became hurricanes.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2093655", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093655", "title": "Sparklies", "text": "Sparklies\n\nSparklies is a formal term, as used by British Sky Broadcasting (BSkyB) and a number of hardware makers including Amstrad and Pace, for interference on analogue satellite television transmissions.\n\nSparklies are black or white 'hard' interference dots (as opposed to the 'soft' interference patterns of terrestrial television), caused either by too weak or too strong a signal. When within the satellite's rated reception footprint, sparklies are most likely to be caused by a misaligned dish, or LNBs which are too high- or too low-gain for the dish and receiver.\n\nSparklies do not occur on digital satellite systems; similar problems with digital signals cause MPEG artifacts.\n\n"}
{"id": "2093671", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093671", "title": "Dondelange", "text": "Dondelange\n\nDondelange (, ) is a village in the commune of Kehlen, in south-western Luxembourg. The village has a historic chapel, and a large historic mansion. , the village has a population of 143. The surnames Dondlinger and Dondelinger are derived from the name of this village.\n"}
{"id": "2093683", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093683", "title": "Ivan Julian", "text": "Ivan Julian\n\nIvan Julian (born June 26, 1955) is a guitarist and bassist. He is also founding member of such punk groups as Richard Hell and the Voidoids and Lovelies. He has performed with the Isley Brothers, The Clash, Matthew Sweet, The Bongos, Richard Barone, and Shriekback.\n\nJulian was inspired after seeing Jimi Hendrix play, not so much by Hendrix's guitar style, but the freedom of expression that Hendrix represented. Julian apparently went home and burned his Chuck Taylor shoes in his backyard- a symbolic gesture against conformity.\n\nThe child of a Navy officer, Julian spent his formative years living in exotic locales like Haiti and Cuba. He enjoyed spending time alone and was an avid reader of books by Edgar Allan Poe and Ovid. He also enjoyed putting his own thoughts in writing.\n\nWhen he was 13, Julian sang in a Led Zeppelin cover band, which led him to pick up the guitar at 14. Prior to this, he also studied bassoon and saxophone. He spent his high school years as a part-time student in a college program studying music theory. And then at the age of 17, Julian toured the United Kingdom, Switzerland and the former Yugoslavia as a member of The Foundations, known for hits like \"Build Me Up Buttercup\" and \"Baby Now That I Found You”.\n\nIn 1977 Julian returned to the U.S. to New York, where he was a founding member of the seminal Punk/ New Wave group Richard Hell and the Voidoids. Soon after the band recorded an EP that was heralded by the Village Voice as one of the best records of the year. Early traces of Julian's prowess grace two sides of this historical platter.\n\nLater that year they were signed to Sire/Warner Brothers, and with the band and Richard Gottehrer producing came the \"Blank Generation\" LP. This album set a new standard for a whole generation of guitar players. Two of Julian's songs (co-written with Richard Hell), \"Liars Beware\" and \"Betrayal Takes Two\" appear on side one. The reviewers gave the album high accolades and singled out the guitar work praising its merit. The album stands the test of time and today is still considered among the quintessential records of that period.\n\nJulian formed The Outsets just after the breakup of Richard Hell and the Voidoids in 1980. He remembered seeing Vinny DeNunzio, of The Feelies, playing with Richard Lloyd's band and being impressed. As it turned out Vinny was ready for a change so they started holding auditions for bass and the other guitar. When the word got out, Fred Smith (Television, Blondie), Ted Niceley (producer, Fugazi and Girls vs. Boys), and Tommy Keene were among those that came to play. Niceley and Keene had both played in (the) Razz, a D.C. band whose members were friends with Julian.\n\nEventually the positions were filled by Bob Albertson on bass and Simon Chardiet on guitar. Soon after the band went into rehearsals and prepared for live dates at CBGB's and Max's Kansas City. At this point there were more venues opening up such as the Mudd Club, Danceteria catering to a new minimal, percussive style of music and Ivan wanted to be part of it. The plan as always was to venture out with fresh fine and to new places, so the first gig was booked at Tier 3, a performance space in Soho.\n\nAfter several months the band was signed to Contender Records and released their first single, \"I'm Searchin' For You\" b/w \"Fever\". Much has been made of the misprint on the label that incorrectly list the publishing rights for the B side. As a result, the record company corrected the mistake after the first pressing which has made it somewhat of a collectors item. The songs on \"The Punk/Funk Voodoo Collection\" were recorded in the basement studio of Giorgio Gomelsky, Yardbirds producer and early manager of the Rolling Stones. He persuaded Ivan Julian and the band to explore sounds outside of the boundaries of American pop music, most notably Fela Kuti. The music and the lyrics resound with the rough and tumble immediacy of East Village New York in the early 1980s. Included as Bonus Tracks are remastered versions of The Outsets first single originally released as a 45 on Contender records.\n\nGarland Jeffreys approached Ivan and offered to produce The Outsets forthcoming EP \"The Ice Man\", which also involved Bob Clearmountain as engineer. During this time he also recorded with Tomas Donker from Defunkt, Afrika Bambaataa and Bernie Worrell of Parliament/Funkadelic fame. Originally released in the U.S. on Plexus Records playing keyboards on the bonus tracks is Marsha Sardy who also played with The Julian.\n\nJulian formed a group called Lovelies which included his then-wife, former Bush Tetras vocalist Cynthia Sley in 1988. \"Mad Orphan\" (an early version of the band was called The Mad Orphans) is their one and only release. This release is characterized by percussive downtown NYC post-punk.\n\nThe Clash were at Electric Lady Studios recording what would become the \"Sandinista!\" LP. Mick Jones and Joe Strummer wanted Julian to join them in the studio but he was touring with his band, The Outsets. Upon his return he recorded with them and helped to develop the single from \"Sandinista!\", entitled \"The Call Up\".\n\nThe English bands Shriekback, founded by Dave Allen from the Gang of Four and Barry Andrews of XTC, asked Julian on two tours of the North America and Europe. Julian's thoughts on being compared to Hendrix? \"I never wanted to emulate him because he is someone that can't be touched, but I am honoured that people would say that about me.\" With his influences being such notable figures as Charlie Parker, Albert Ayler and Charlie Christian it is no wonder that he has developed a distinct style all his own. Julian states, \"There is a piece of their soul in every note they play.\" During most of the nineties Julian recorded and toured the world with Matthew Sweet as lead guitarist earning him three Gold Record Awards.\n\nHe continues to write and produce music at his analog tape/digital recording studio, NY HED where he has produced the last 2 The Fleshtones LP's, and mastered Five Dollar Priest among others.\n\nAfter Julian was diagnosed with Stage III gastrointestinal cancer in 2015, a two-day benefit concert was staged for him at City Winery in New York. The musicians who performed included Debbie Harry, Thurston Moore, and Matthew Sweet. Declared cancer-free in 2016, Julian played a comeback show at Bell House in Brooklyn. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "2093687", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093687", "title": "List of hostage crises", "text": "List of hostage crises\n\nThis is a list of notable hostage crises by date.\n"}
{"id": "2093702", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093702", "title": "Toy balloon", "text": "Toy balloon\n\nA toy balloon or party balloon, is a small balloon mostly used for decoration, advertising and children's toys. Toy balloons are usually made of rubber or aluminized plastic, and inflated with air or helium. They come in a great variety of sizes and shapes, but are most commonly 10 to 30 centimetres in diameter. Toy balloons are not considered to include \"sky lanterns\" (hot-air paper balloons), although these too are or were used as child toys in some parts of the world.\n\nAccording to The Journal of the American Medical Association, out of 373 children who died in the US between 1972 and 1992 after choking on children's products, nearly a third choked on latex balloons. The Consumer Products Safety Commission found that children had inhaled latex balloons whole (often while trying to inflate them) or choked on fragments of broken balloons. \"Parents\", a monthly magazine about raising children, advised parents to buy Mylar balloons instead of latex balloons.\n\nEarly balloons were made from pig bladders and animal intestines. The Aztecs created the first balloon sculptures using cat intestines, which were then presented to the gods as a sacrifice. There are references to balloons made of whale intestine in \"Swiss Family Robinson\" (1813) and in \"Moby Dick\" (1851).\n\nThe first rubber balloons were made by Professor Michael Faraday in 1824 for use in his experiments with hydrogen at the Royal Institution in London. \"The caoutchouc is exceedingly elastic,\" he wrote in the Quarterly Journal of Science the same year. \"Bags made of it...have been expanded by having air forced into them, until the caoutchouc was quite transparent, and when expanded by hydrogen they were so light as to form balloons with considerable ascending power...\" Faraday made his balloons by cutting round two sheets of rubber laid together and pressing the edges together. The tacky rubber welded automatically, and the inside of the balloon was rubbed with flour to prevent the opposing surfaces joining together.\n\nLatex rubber toy balloons were introduced by pioneer rubber manufacturer Thomas Hancock the following year in the form of a do-it-yourself kit consisting of a bottle of rubber solution and a condensing syringe. Vulcanized toy balloons, which unlike the earlier kind were unaffected by changes in temperature, were first manufactured by J.G. Ingram of London in 1847 and can be regarded as the prototype of modern toy balloons.\n\nSince the 1890s, paper balloons called kamifūsen have been popular children's toys in Japan. \n\nIn the 1920s Neil Tillotson designed and produced a latex balloon with a cat's face and ears from a cardboard form which he cut by hand with a pair of scissors. He managed to make his first sale of these balloons with an order of 15 gross to be delivered for the annual Patriots' Day Parade on April 19, 1931. The first colored balloons were sold at the 1933-34 Chicago World's Fair.\n\nInflatable foil balloons are made from plastics, such as biaxially-oriented PET film. Foil balloons are not elastic like rubber balloons, so that detailed and colorful pictures printed on their surfaces are not distorted when the balloon is inflated. Foil balloons are thus named because they sometimes have a metallic coating to make them shiny; however, there have been concerns about metallic balloons causing short circuits when caught in overhead power lines. Because metallic balloons can cause power outages like on overhead catenary train lines, it is recommended that the metallic balloons not only be tied by a string or ribbon with no metal in it, but also securely tied down by a weight to prevent the balloon from floating away and some train operators either issue advisories on how to handle balloons or ban balloons altogether. When no longer required, it is recommended to cut the balloon to release the helium and dispose of in a garbage container.\n\nEvery toy balloon has an opening (or \"mouth\") through which gases are blown into it, followed by a connecting tube known as the \"neck\". Balloons are usually filled by using one's breath, a pump, or a pressurized gas tank. The opening can then be permanently tied off or clamped temporarily. Foil balloons are typically self-sealing. By filling a balloon with a gas lighter than air, such as helium, the balloon can be made to float. Helium is the preferred gas for floating balloons, because it is inert and will not catch fire (like hydrogen) or cause toxic effects when inhaled. Small, light objects (postcards, in balloon mail for example) are sometimes placed in balloons along with helium and released into the air and, when the balloon eventually falls, the object inside might be found by another person. Rubber balloons can also be filled with liquids (usually water) and can burst when they impact a solid object. Liquid-filled balloons are commonly referred to as water balloons or water bombs and used in playful fights, and sometimes vandalism.\n\nMost toy balloons are a simple oval-like shape. But balloon suppliers also offers other shapes for toy balloons. Some examples of other shapes are: \"zeppelins\" or \"airships,\" where balloons are usually longer than wide; \"espirals\" or \"rattlesnakes,\" similar to zeppelins, but much longer (not to be confused with balloons for twisting); \"hearts,\" balloons with the shape of a heart; \"dolls,\" two round shapes joined that represent a head and a body; \"mouseheads,\" composed of three round parts, one for the head and two for the ears; \"bunnyheads,\" similar to mouseheads but with long ears; \"bunny balloons,\" which resemble a stuffed toy bunny, having a big long shape for the body, a smaller shape for the head, and two long shapes for the ears; \"elephants,\" with two shapes for the body and the head, and a very long shape for the trunk; and \"ducks,\" with a big shape for the body, a smaller round shape for the head and smaller shape for the beak. There are many other possible shapes, depending on the manufacturers.\n\nThere are balloons that are longer and more cylindrical. These long balloons are often twisted and bent into simple, or intricate shapes which will hold their form when released. Balloon artists are people who quickly twist balloons into familiar or abstract shapes using the techniques of balloon modelling, usually for profit. Other names for balloon modeling include: balloon twisting, balloon bending, or simply twisting.\n\nArtists who practice balloon modeling are called: Balloon Twisters, Balloon Benders, Balloon Modeler and even have been referred to as a Latex Vessel Reconstruction Engineer.\n\nThe types of balloons used for this practice are pencil balloons and are called 160s, 260s, 350s, 360s, 660s or 646s. These number designations refer to the sizes of the balloons and roughly equate to the diameter and the length of the balloon when fully inflated. The 260, one of the most common animal balloon sizes, would be 2 inches in diameter and then 60 inches long when fully inflated.\n\nThe modeling balloons can be made into simple dogs, hearts, and swords or can be made into more intricate shapes such as dragons, cartoon characters, or even figments of the imaginations. More and more nearly anything is becoming possible with balloon twisting and it shows at major industry conventions such as Twist and Shout, the largest balloon twisting convention in the world.\n\nToy balloons are often characterized with its distinctive noises if manipulated in some ways. These noises include:\n\nToy balloons are used as decorations and/or advertising space. Balloons are usually purchased in deflated form, however, some party stores and vendors at special events will fill their balloons before selling them, this is called \"balloon stuffing\" where the balloons are filled with objects such as smaller balloons, teddy bears, etc.\n\nWhile toy balloons are primarily a toy, they are also sometimes used for demonstrations and experiments in classrooms. During the 19th century, it was thought that rubber balloons could be used to replace certain organs, but this was quickly disproved.\n\nToy balloons can be filled with water and used in a variety of ways, usually for fun. They can be thrown, or set up to drop on the head of an unsuspecting victim. Some Australians report using water balloons around their house during bushfires, as the heat of the flames breaks the balloon and causes the water to land on the fire.\n\nThere are water balloons which are balloons specifically designed to be filled with water.\n\n"}
{"id": "2093706", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093706", "title": "Coffee service", "text": "Coffee service\n\nCoffee service refers to the many and various styles in which coffee is made available to people, such as in restaurants and hotels.\n\nCoffee service is also a catch-all term for services related to the delivery of coffee to employees of a business at low or no cost to them. Providing coffee to employees is popular among employers since employees will likely not leave the workplace to purchase coffee, subsequently reducing lost work time. Employers also see coffee service as a perk with a low cost.\n\nSome companies, with high traffic of visitors and employees, opt to install a coffee dispenser (vending machine) as their coffee service. Typically these machines give the user the choice of various types of coffee, tea and hot chocolate. Money collected is usually kept by the employer to offset the cost of the maintenance contract and for the purchase of the instant coffee used by the machine. However, sometimes companies make the coffee from such machines free. Unfortunately, the coffee dispensed by these machines is usually of low quality.\n\nAnother option is to use an automatic espresso or drip coffee maker which grinds the coffee beans and dispenses the coffee into a cup. These machines do not charge per cup, but often provide a bypass slot where the employee can add their own coffee beans. By providing low quality beans, employees can be encouraged to provide their own beans. The cost of the maintenance contract still falls on the employer, however it is about the same as the cost of the machine per year.\n\nAn increasingly popular preparation offered by coffee service providers is known as a \"frac pac\". This is ground coffee in a self-contained packet, enveloped by a filter. This allows a conventional drip coffee maker to be used, but without the mess of cleaning out the old grounds and without the requirement to measure out the right amount of coffee. The user only needs remove the old pack and to place the new pack into their coffee machine. \n\nThe downside of such a service is quality of the coffee. Unless canned, coffee needs to be brewed within the first week of roasting and within four hours of grinding for the best quality. Since local roasters will generally not have a filter enveloping machine, these packs are shipped great distances and may be weeks old before they even arrive at the office.\n\nSome companies now provide on their premises full espresso bars where employees or contractors provide a full range of espresso drinks, free of charge or at company-subsidized prices.\n\n\"Coffee-service men and women\"\n"}
{"id": "2093709", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093709", "title": "Union school district", "text": "Union school district\n\nIn some U.S. states, a union school district or union high school district is a school district that has been established by the consolidation of \"two or more school districts situated in the same county\". A Joint union school district is similar, but the component districts are \"situated wholly or in part in different counties\". A union school district is distinctive from a unified school district in a union school district generally does not include or operate primary or grade schools and high schools, whereas a unified district generally includes and operates both types of schools. (Vermont has a different distinction, as explained below.)\n\nIn Arizona, a union high school district is generally one that includes and operates high schools. Sometimes the name is derived from the name of the first school that was opened, using the word \"Union\" in its full name. Examples include the Casa Grande Union High School District (the Union school still uses the full name), the Phoenix Union High School District, the Glendale Union High School District, and the Tempe Union High School District. Some special union high school districts — such the Santa Cruz Valley Union High School District — include and operate only one school.\n\nThe California Education Code states that \"A high school district, other than a city high school district, comprising two or more elementary school districts lying wholly in the same county is a union high school district, and such designation shall be part of its name.\"\n\nIn Vermont, a union school district \"is established when two or more school districts agree to join together to own, construct, or operate schools.\" A union school district is a unified school district if the town school districts have been abolished.\n\nThere are also several school districts which simply have the name \"Union School District\" or similar constructions:\n"}
{"id": "2093715", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093715", "title": "Osteospermum fruticosum", "text": "Osteospermum fruticosum\n\nIt grows between tall and can spread in width. The dark-centered daisy-like flowers range in color from deep purple to white. Some hybrid growers have bred pale yellow-flowering strains. The plant is a perennial in mild climates.\n\n\"O. fruticosum\" has been classified as a weed in New Zealand where it is now a widespread coastal plant, particularly in the North Island.\n"}
{"id": "2093718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093718", "title": "Kamakhya", "text": "Kamakhya\n\nKamakhya is an important Hindu Tantric goddess of desire who evolved in the Himalayan hills. She is worshiped as Siddha Kubjika, and is also identified as Kali and Maha Tripura Sundari. According to the Tantric texts (\"Kalika Purana\", \"Yogini Tantra\") that are the basis for her worship at the Kamakhya temple, a 16th-century temple in the Kamrup district of Assam. The earlier manifest of the goddess sanctified at the Garo hills is destroyed, although the Vatsayana priests are said to have carried away the manifest of the goddess to the Hindu kingdom in Kashmir and later sanctified in a remote hill forest in Himachal. Her name means \"renowned goddess of desire,\" and she resides at the presently rebuilt Kamakhya Temple in 1645 C. The temple is primary amongst the 51 Shakti Peethas related to the sect that follows Sati, and remains one of the most important Shakta temples and Hindu pilgrimage sites in the world.\n\nThe origin of worship 'Shakti' at the site is associated with the legend of Sati, who was the wife of the ascetic god Shiva and daughter of the Puranic god-king Daksha. Daksha was unhappy with his daughter's choice of husband, and when he performed a grand Yajna for all the deities, he did not invite Shiva or Sati. In a rage, Sati threw herself onto the fire, knowing that this would make the sacrifice impure. Because she was the all-powerful mother goddess, Sati left her body in that moment to be reborn as the goddess Parvati. Meanwhile, Shiva was stricken with grief and rage at the loss of his wife. He put Sati's body over his shoulder and began his \"tandava\" (dance of cosmic destruction) throughout the heavens, and vowed not to stop until the body was completely rotted away. The other Gods, afraid of their annihilation, implored Vishnu to pacify Shiva. Thus, wherever Shiva wandered while dancing, Vishnu followed. He sent his discus Sudarshana to destroy the corpse of Sati. Pieces of her body fell until Shiva was left without a body to carry. Seeing this, Shiva sat down to do \"Mahatapasya\" (great penance). Despite the similarity in name, scholars do not generally believe that this legend gave rise to the practice of sati or the voluntary giving of the wife's body on the pyre of her husband .\n\nAccording to various myths and traditions, there are 51 pieces of Sati's body scattered across the Indian subcontinent. These places are called shakti peethas and are dedicated to various powerful goddesses. Kamarupa (\"form of desire\") is the region in which the \"yoni\" (\"vulva,\" \"womb,\" or \"source\") is said to have fallen to earth, and the Kamakhya temple was said to have been constructed on this spot.\n\nKamakhya is mentioned in the \"Kalika Purana\" as the most important goddess of Tantric worship, and is referred to in the text as \"Mahamaya\", the \"great goddess of illusion\", who takes on many forms depending on her mood. Devotees also call her Kameshwari (\"beloved goddess of desire\"), and consider her a form of Maha Tripura Sundari, also called Shodashi. She is identified with Kali in the \"Kalika Purana\", Yoginitantra\" and \"Kamakhya Tantra\", each of which echoes this verse:\n\n\"It is certainly well known that Kamakhya is truly none other than that mother goddess Kali, who is in all things the form of wisdom.\"\nKamakhya is associated with the Dasa Mahavidyas, who each have temples dedicated to them at the Kamakhya temple complex in Assam. She is also closely associated with Durga.\n\nFour Adi Shakti Peethas\n\nThe great mythological texts including the Kalika Purana (the Asthashakti) and various Tantras recognize the four major Shakti Peethas as Adi Shakti Peethas. Like (Bimala, Pada Khanda) inside the Jagannath Temple, Puri, Odisha, (Tara Tarini) Sthana Khanda (Breasts), near Brahmapur, Odisha, (Kamakhya, Yoni khanda) in Guwahati, Assam and (Dakhina Kalika, Mukha khanda) in Kolkata, West Bengal originated from the limbs of the Corpse of Mata Sati. In a hymn, the Kalika Purana (Asthashakti) clearly says:\n\n“Vimala Pada khandancha,\n\nStana khandancha Tarini (Tara Tarini),\n\nKamakhya Yoni khandancha,\n\nMukha khandancha Kalika (Kali)\n\nAnga pratyanga sangena\n\nVishnu Chakra Kshate nacha……”\n\nPeetha Body Part Place\n\nVimala Pada khanda Puri, Odisha\n\nTara Tarini Stana khanda Brahmapur, Odisha\n\nKamakhya Yoni khanda Guwahati, Assam\n\nDakshina Kalika Mukha khanda Kolkata, West Bengal\nMantras for general worship of the Mahavidyas at the Kamakhya temple complex reveal a close identity with Kamakhya herself. Several of these goddesses are worshipped as forms of Kamakhya explicitly.\nDevi Kamakhya's 'Ashtashaktis' or eight incarnations are Guptakama,Srikama,Vindhyavasini,Kotishvari,Vanadurga,Padadurga,Dirgheshvari and Bhuvaneshvari.\n\nOnce Narakasura, motivated by his desire, wanted to marry Devi Kamakhya. When proposed, the Goddess playfully put a condition before him that if he would be able to build a staircase from the bottom of the Nilachal Hill to the temple within one night before the cock crows to indicate Dawn, then she would surely marry him.\nNaraka took it as a challenge and tried all with his might to do this huge task. He was almost about to accomplish the job before it was dawn. When Kamakhya Devi got this news, she playfully strangled a cock and made it crow untimely to give the impression of Dawn to Naraka. Duped by the trick even Naraka thought that it was a futile job and left it halfway through. Now the place is known as Kukurakata situated in the district of Darrang. The incomplete staircase is known as Mekhelauja Path.\n\nDrunk with power, as he knew himself to be unrivalled in prowess, he brought all the kingdoms on earth under his control. Next, he turned his eyes towards Swargaloka. Even the mighty Indra could not withstand the assault of this son of Vishnu and had to flee the heavens. \nNarakasura had become the overlord of both the heavens and earth. Addicted to power, he stole the earrings of Aditi, the heavenly mother goddess, and usurped some of her territory, while also kidnapping 16000 women.\n\nAll the Devas, led by Indra, went to Vishnu to ask him to deliver them from Narakasura. Vishnu promised them that he would attend to this matter, when he would be incarnated as Krishna.\n\nAs promised to Mother Earth, Narakasura was allowed to enjoy a long reign. At last Vishnu was born as Krishna. Aditi, who was a relative of Krishna's wife Satyabhama (believed to be an Avatar of Bhudevi - Narakasura' mother), approached Satyabhama for help. When Satyabhama heard of the Narakasura's ill treatment of women and his behaviour with Aditi, she was enraged. Satyabhama approached Lord Krishna for permission to wage a war against Narakasura. As promised to the Devas and Aditi, Krishna attacked the great fortress of Narakasura, riding his mount Garuda with wife Satyabhama.\nLord Krishna used the Narayanastra and the Agneyastra against the army of Narakasura.\nThe battle was furiously fought. Narakasura possessed 11 Akshauhinis that he unleashed on Lord Krishna. However, the Lord slew them all with little effort. Lord Krishna also killed Mura, Narakasura's general. Thus Krishna is called 'Murāri' (the killer of Mura).\n\nNarakasura used several divine weapons against Lord Krishna, but Krishna easily neutralised all those weapons. Narakasura used the Brahmastra against Lord Krishna, but Lord Krishna neutralised it with his own Brahmastra. Narakasura used the Agneyastra against Lord Krishna, but Lord Krishna neutralised it with the Varunastra. Narakasura used the Nagapasha against Lord Krishna, but Lord Krishna neutralised it with the Garudastra. In desperation, Narakasura launched the Vaishnavastra on Lord Krishna, but Lord Krishna neutralised it with another Vaishnavastra. At last, when Narakasura tried to kill Lord Krishna with a trident, Lord Krishna beheaded him with his Sudarshana Chakra (discus).\nEverything happened because of the maya made by the Goddess Kamakhya.\n\nBefore Narakasura's death, he requested a boon from his mother, Satyabhama, that everyone should celebrate his death with colorful light. Thus this day is celebrated as 'Naraka Chaturdashi' - the day before Diwali. Krishna's and Satyabhama's victory on Narakasura translated into freedom for all his prisoners and honoring of Aditi. Having rescued the 16,100 women, Krishna married them to restore them to their former dignity.\n\nAppearing in Narakasur's lair, she reveals to him her glorious form in all her glory. After that, Narakasur says that he wished to ask for the boon to get sons out of the 16,000 wives but now he wishes to have Kamakhya. Kamakhya creates a crater in the land and asks Narakasur to create a bridge to reach her before the rooster crows. Narakasur starts building the bridge. Kamakhya makes the rooster crow as Narakasur realises that he had been tricked. He lashes out in rage. Kamakhya empowers all the 16,000 women present there and they fight Narakasur's demon associates. Meanwhile, Narakasur is fallen to the ground by Kamakhya Devi. Kamakhya then enumerates the five boons that Lord Shiva had given and the last one being that he will die only when he himself calls upon his death. \n\nKamakhya Devi tells him that she is none other than the Supreme Goddess Mahakaali, who is the creator, preserver and the destroyer of all. Narakasur sees the horrific Goddess Mahakali, standing in full view, in his front. Upon seeing Kamakhya as Mahakaali, Narakasur was scared. The demon begs Goddess Kamakhya for a death that would make him remembered as a devotee and not a demon. Kamakhya grants the same. Kamakhya kills Narakasur with her trident and frees all the 16,000 women.\n\nKamakhya is pictured as a young goddess, 16 years old, with twelve arms and six heads of varying colors, representing a powerful goddess who is omnipotent, omniscient and omnipresent. She is wearing opulent jewelry and red flowers such as hibiscus.\n\nShe holds in each of ten hands a lotus, trident, sword, bell, discus, bow, arrows, club or scepter, goad, and shield. Her remaining two hands hold a bowl, which is made either of gold or a skull.\n\nShe is seated upon a lotus, directly on top of Lord Shiva, who in turn lies atop a lion.\n\nTo each side of her sit Brahma and Vishnu, who are each seated upon a lotus, as well.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2093719", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093719", "title": "Climate Monitoring and Diagnostics Laboratory", "text": "Climate Monitoring and Diagnostics Laboratory\n\nThe Climate Monitoring and Diagnostics Laboratory (CMDL) was a climate laboratory in the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA)/Office of Oceanic and Atmospheric Research (OAR). In October 2005, it was merged with five other NOAA labs to form the Earth System Research Laboratory.\n\nCMDL's mission was to observe and understand, through accurate, long-term records of atmospheric gases, aerosol particles, and solar radiation, the Earth's atmospheric system controlling climate forcing, ozone depletion and baseline air quality, in order to develop products that will advance global and regional environmental information and services.\n\n"}
{"id": "2093729", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093729", "title": "O Globo", "text": "O Globo\n\nO Globo (, \"The Globe\") is a Brazilian newspaper based in Rio de Janeiro. \"O Globo\" is the most prominent print publication in the Grupo Globo media conglomerate, which includes globo.com, which is the top 5 website in Brazil and top 134 worldwide.\n\nFounded by journalist Irineu Marinho, owner of \"A Noite\", it was originally intended as a morning daily to extend the newspaper interests of the company. In time, it became the flagship paper of the group. When Irineu died weeks after the founding of the newspaper in 1925, it was inherited by his son Roberto. At age 21, he started working as a trainee reporter for the paper and later became managing editor.\n\nRoberto Marinho developed Grupo Globo (the conglomerate of media companies consisting of \"O Globo,\" Rede Globo, Rádio Globo, Editora Globo and other subsidiaries) as Brazil's largest media group, entering radio in the 1940s and TV in the 1960s, and picking up other interests.\n\n\nIn 1994, just a day before the premiere in Brazil of the British documentary \"Beyond Citizen Kane,\" at the Rio de Janeiro Modern Art Museum, the Military Police confiscated the copy of the film, obeying a court warrant in response to a suit filed by Globo. The film explored the establishment of Rede Globo, the largest television broadcaster in the country, and its ties to the military dictatorship of the period. The director of the museum was threatened with a heavy fine in case of disobedience. Due to the public outcry about the censorship, the Secretary of Culture of Rio de Janeiro was fired three days after the incident.\n\nIn 1995, Globo requested in court the confiscation of copies available at the library of the University of São Paulo, but the claim was overruled. The film was restricted to University groups until the 2000s. Globo's attempt to prevent release of the film in Brazil proved to be a failure following the Internet boom in the 2000s. Through the 1990s, the film was illegally screened in universities and political groups without public notice, and later it went \"viral\" on the Internet.\n\nOn 20 August 2009, the newspaper \"Folha de S. Paulo\" reported that Rede Record bought the broadcasting rights of the documentary for less than US$20,000. This followed a series of mutual attacks between Globo and Record because of Globo's reporting of a Public Ministry investigation of Edir Macedo and other high-profile members of the Universal Church of the Kingdom of God. Macedo has owned Rede Record since 9 November 1989.\n\n"}
{"id": "2093733", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093733", "title": "Ira C. Owens", "text": "Ira C. Owens\n\nIra C. Owens (born July 31, 1936) was an officer in the United States Army.\n\nOwens was born on July 31, 1936, in Cortez, Colorado. In the early 1990s, Owens, then a Lieutenant General, served as the Deputy Chief of Staff for Intelligence, Headquarters, Department of the Army. \n\nGeneral Owens is a member of the Military Intelligence Hall of Fame.\n"}
{"id": "2093734", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093734", "title": "Zittau–Oybin/Jonsdorf railway", "text": "Zittau–Oybin/Jonsdorf railway\n\nThe Zittau–Oybin/Jonsdorf railway, or Zittau–Kurort Oybin/Kurort Jonsdorf narrow-gauge railway (German: \"Schmalspurbahn Zittau–Kurort Oybin/Kurort Jonsdorf\"), is a narrow-gauge railway system employing steam locomotives and serving the mountain health-spa resorts (German: \"Kurorte\") of Oybin and Jonsdorf in the Zittau Mountains in southeast Saxony (Germany). The track gauge is .\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2093750", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093750", "title": "Charles B. Eichelberger", "text": "Charles B. Eichelberger\n\nCharles B. Eichelberger was an officer in the United States Army.\n\nFrom November 22, 1989 to September 30, 1991, Eichelberger, then a Lieutenant General, served as the Deputy Chief of Staff for Intelligence, Headquarters, Department of the Army.\n\nGeneral Eichelberger is a member of the Military Intelligence Hall of Fame and a graduate of Georgia Military College.\n"}
{"id": "2093759", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093759", "title": "Samson &amp; Goliath", "text": "Samson &amp; Goliath\n\nSamson & Goliath, also known as Young Samson, is an American animated television series produced by Hanna-Barbera Productions for NBC, where it debuted on September 9, 1967. Primarily sponsored by General Mills, who controlled the distribution rights through its agency Dancer Fitzgerald Sample, \"Samson & Goliath\" was retitled \"Young Samson\" in April 1968 to avoid confusion with the stop-motion Christian television series \"Davey and Goliath.\"\n\nTwenty-six 12-minute episodes of the series were produced, six of which no longer exist. \"Samson & Goliath\" cartoons were paired with other General Mills-sponsored shows such as \"Tennessee Tuxedo\" and \"Go Go Gophers\" to form a full half-hour for their original network broadcasts. \"Young Samson\" was later shown in syndication with \"The Space Kidettes\" as \"The Space Kidettes and Young Samson,\" distributed by The Program Exchange. The rights were acquired by Warner Bros. Television Distribution when it became rights owner of the Hanna-Barbera catalog.\n\nThe series was the only Dancer Fitzgerald Sample-sponsored cartoon to be outsourced to Hanna-Barbera; the agency's in-house studio, Gamma Productions, had closed shortly before the series began. (It was also the only cartoon in the DFS portfolio not to be created either by Jay Ward Productions or by Total Television.)\n\nThe show follows the adventures of a teenager named Samson and his dog, Goliath as they ride around the country on a motorbike. Whenever trouble arises, usually in the form of a menacing mega villain or evil scientist, Samson transforms himself into a superhero version of the biblical Samson by hitting his golden wristbands together. A second slam transforms Goliath into a super-powered lion. He can also direct shock waves from his wristbands, and by twisting his bracelets, can increase his and Goliath's powers to far greater levels.\n\n\"Samson & Goliath\" is similar in format to other Hanna-Barbera adventure shows such as \"Space Ghost,\" \"Moby Dick and Mighty Mightor,\" and \"Shazzan\" in its pacing, plots, voices, music and art direction. Many of these characters were developed for CBS by comics artist Alex Toth, but Samson was on NBC.\n\nThis show is very similar to a 1980s cartoon show, \"He-Man and the Masters of the Universe.\" Like Samson, teenage Prince Adam turns into the adult, muscular superhero He-Man by way of a magical artifact. Like Samson's Goliath, Adam's pet tiger Cringer also turns into the bigger, stronger and tougher Battle Cat. Both \"Samson & Goliath\" and \"He-Man\" (along with \"Moby Dick and Mighty Mightor\") bear similarities to an earlier property, the Fawcett Comics (later DC Comics) superhero Captain Marvel. Samson striking bracelets on his wrists to transform himself is identical to how Rick Jones exchanges places with the Marvel Comics version of Captain Marvel in the late 1960s and the early 1970s.\n\n\n\nOn March 8, 2011, Warner Archive released all 20 episodes of \"The Space Kidettes and Young Samson\" on DVD in region 1 as part of their Hanna–Barbera Classics Collection. This is a manufacture-on-demand (MOD) release, available exclusively through Warner's online store and Amazon.com. The original network broadcasts of \"The Space Kidettes\" and \"Samson & Goliath\" were formatted to break up the plot line of each episode to include additional animated content not made by Hanna-Barbera, but which were controlled by the series’ sponsor.\n\nAfter the network runs ended, both stories were re-edited into continuous scenarios, and the two series were joined together as \"The Space Kidettes and Young Samson\" for subsequent forms of distribution. The revised syndication versions of these shows are the only ones available for distribution, as the original network versions were cut and reconformed for the current configuration. These are the versions used for the DVD release.\n\n"}
{"id": "2093760", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093760", "title": "Opothleyahola", "text": "Opothleyahola\n\nOpothleyahola, also spelled Opothle Yohola, Opothleyoholo, Hu-pui-hilth Yahola, Hopoeitheyohola, and Hopere Yahvlv (c. 1778 – March 22, 1863) was a Muscogee Creek Indian chief, noted as a brilliant orator. He was a Speaker of the Upper Creek Council and supported traditional culture. Also called '\"Lamochatte\"' after the battle of horseshoe bend where he jumped with his horse from an embankment with a 40 foot drop. \n\nAlthough known as a diplomatic chief, as a Red Stick traditionalist he led Creek forces against the United States government during the Creek Wars. Later he tried to overturn the Treaty of Indian Springs, but was forced to make a new treaty with the federal government in 1832. He was commissioned as a colonel and led forces against remaining Lower Creek and the Seminole in the first two wars of the US against them. Despite his efforts, he and his people were among the Seminole and others forced to remove to Indian Territory in 1836, where they settled in the Unassigned Lands. \n\nDespite this, during the American Civil War, Opothleyahola was among the minority of Creek in Indian Territory who supported the Union. Because of rising conflict within the tribe, he led his followers to Kansas as a refuge, and they had to undergo three battles along the way. This became known as the Trail of Blood on Ice, because the people suffered harsh conditions. Some people were housed at a federal fort, others in refugee camps in Kansas. All suffered from inadequate supplies, disease, and harsh winters. Opothleyahola died during the war at one of the refugee camps in Kansas.\n\nOpothleyahola was born circa 1780 at Tuckabatchee, the Creek capital of the Upper Creek Towns, located in present-day Elmore County, Alabama. The Upper Creek Towns' population comprised the majority of the nation. His name literally translated means 'child', 'good', 'whooper' or 'good speaker'. Langguth says the name could be translated as \"...good shouting child.\" According to the \"Encyclopedia of Oklahoma History\", his father was Davy Cornell, a mixed-blood Creek, and his mother was afull-blood Creek; her name is not known.\n\nWhile Opothleyahola was of European and Creek ancestry, he was born to a Creek mother, and considered part of her clan and the tribe by birth. The Creek had a matrilineal kinship system of property holding and descent, making the mother's clan the determining one for the status of her children. Traditionally, her brothers were more important than the biological father in rearing the children. For instance, a maternal uncle would teach a boy men's roles, and introduce him to men's societies. The historian Angie Debo found evidence suggesting that the boy's father was David Evans, a trader of Welsh descent. He may have taught him English and literacy, or sent him to a European-American school.\n\nLower Creek leaders had made treaties with the state of Georgia to cede former hunting lands in 1790, 1802 and 1804. They had more interaction with European Americans, who came as traders and settlers in this area. The Creek had already lost use of the land for hunting because of settler encroachment. They began to adopt more farming practices in order to survive. Under pressure from Georgia and its settlers, they also had more relationship with Benjamin Hawkins, the US Indian agent of the Southeast.\n\nThe differences between the Upper Creek and Lower Creek broke out into violence in 1812 in what was at first a civil war. The Red Sticks of the Upper Creek wanted to revive traditional culture and religion, and resisted assimilation, as well as the land cessions. Opothleyahola is believed to have allied with the British against the US forces as early as the War of 1812.\n\nHe was among the Red Sticks in the Creek War of 1813–1814. This ended with defeat by General Andrew Jackson commanding a large allied force, including Lower Creek, at the Battle of Horseshoe Bend. At that time, Opothleyahola swore his allegiance to the Federal government.\n\nLater the young man developed as an influential and eloquent speaker who used his skills for his people first and foremost. He was selected as a Speaker for the chiefs, which was a distinct political role on the National Council, and he later became a \"diplomatic chief.\" He became a wealthy trader and owned a 2,000-acre (8 km²) plantation near North Fork Town. As did other Creek and members of the Five Civilized Tribes, he purchased enslaved African Americans as workers for his plantation. Opothleyahola joined the Freemasons and accepted Christianity, becoming a Baptist.\n\nAlarmed by the land cessions made by chiefs of the Lower Towns without tribal consensus, the National Council of the Creek Confederacy enacted a law that made further land cessions by tribal members a capital offense. In 1825, William McIntosh and several Lower Creek chiefs signed the Treaty of Indian Springs with the US, by which they gave up most of the remaining Creek lands in Georgia in exchange for payment and removal to lands west of the Mississippi River. McIntosh and others of the Treaty Party by then believed that relocation was inevitable, given the increasing numbers of European-American settlers entering their region, and they wanted to get the best deal possible for the Creek Nation.\n\nAs the National Council had not given up on trying to resist United States encroachment, and passed a death sentence, supported by Opothleyahola, against McIntosh and other signatories of the 1825 Treaty. The chief \"Menawa\" led 200 warriors to attack McIntosh at his plantation. They killed him and another signatory chief, and burned down his mansion.\n\nThe Creek elders realized that they would need experienced negotiators to present their case to Federal authorities. While Opothleyahola was a persuasive speaker, he was not fluent in the English language. They turned to the Cherokee for assistance. Major Ridge, a Cherokee leader, recommended that the Creek retain his son, John Ridge, and David Vann, who were young, well-educated men fluent in English, to travel with Opothleyahola and help prepare his negotiating positions.\n\nThe Creek National Council, led by Opothleyahola, went to Washington, D.C., to protest the illegality of the 1825 treaty, saying its signatories did not have consensus of the council. President John Quincy Adams was sympathetic. The US government and the chiefs made a new treaty with more favorable terms, the Treaty of Washington (1826).\n\nBut Georgia officials began forcibly removing the Indians from lands which it claimed under the 1825 treaty. In addition, the state ignored the 1832 US Supreme Court ruling in \"Worcester v. Georgia,\" which said that the state's legislation to regulate activities within American Indian territories was unconstitutional.\n\nWhen the Alabama legislature also moved to abolish tribal governments and extend state laws over the Creek people, Opothleyahola appealed to the administration of President Andrew Jackson. He had already signed the 1830 Indian Removal Act and wanted the Creek and other tribes to move west. Given no relief, the Upper Creek signed the Treaty of Cusseta on March 24, 1832, which divided Creek lands into individual allotments. They could either sell their allotments and receive funds to remove to Indian Territory, or stay in Alabama as state and US citizens and submit to the state laws.\n\nIn 1834, Opothleyahola traveled to Nacogdoches, Texas, to try to purchase communal land for his people. After he had paid landowners $20,000, pressure from both the Mexican and American governments forced Opothleyahola to abandon the idea.\n\nIn 1836, Opothleyahola, commissioned as a colonel by the U.S. government, led 1,500 of his warriors against remaining rebellious Lower Creek, who had allied with Seminole in Florida in fighting the white occupation. Soon after, the US Army rounded up the remaining Creek and other Southeast Indian peoples and forced their emigration to Indian Territory, on what was known as the \"Trail of Tears.\" In 1837, Opothleyahola led 8,000 of his people from Alabama to lands north of the Canadian River in the Indian Territory, what were then called Unassigned Lands. (It is now part of the state of Oklahoma). Over time, they began to specialize in stock raising and grain production there.\n\nAt the outbreak of the American Civil War, Opothleyahola and Creek remained loyal to the federal government. While it had passed legislation for Indian removal, they believed that the pressure for this came from Georgia and the southern populations, so did not support the Confederacy. The Lower Creek and some of the other of the Southeastern tribes, who had specialized in cotton production, held numerous slaves and had more cultural contacts with white settlers, supported the Confederacy. It had promised them an Indian-controlled state if they won the war. Tensions within the Creek Nation increased during this period because the Confederacy tried to convince it and other Indian nations to tighten slave codes in Indian Territory.\n\nCreek with African ancestry resented the restrictions of proposed \"black codes,\" and became more affiliated toward the Union. Refugee enslaved African Americans, free people of color, Chickasaw and Seminole Indians also began gathering at Opothleyahola's plantation. They hoped to remain neutral in the conflict between the North and South.\n\nOn August 15, 1861, Opothleyahola and tribal chief Micco Hutko contacted President Abraham Lincoln to request help for the loyalists. On September 10, they received a positive response, saying that the United States government would assist them. The letter directed Opothleyahola to move his people to Fort Row in Wilson County, Kansas, where they would receive asylum and aid.\n\nOn November 15, Confederate Col. Douglas H. Cooper, a former US Indian Agent, led 1,400 men, including pro-Confederate Indians, northward; he intended either to convince Opothleyahola and his followers to support the Confederacy or to \"drive him and his party from the country.\" Believing Federal promises of assistance, Opothleyahola led his band (including Seminole under Halleck Tustenuggee) toward Kansas. Along the way, they had to fight three battles against their pursuers, and had lost many of their goods in their quick departure. At Round Mountain, Opothleyahola's forces drove back the Confederates to Fort Gibson.\n\nIn December, the loyalists suffered a tactical loss at Chusto-Talasah and a crushing defeat at the Battle of Chustenahlah. He lost an estimated 2,000 of his 9,000 followers from the battles, disease, and bitter winter blizzards during their ill-fated trek to Fort Row. The fort had been unable to get extra supplies, and lacked adequate medical support and supplies to care for the refugees. The Creek were forced to move to Fort Belmont, but conditions were still very poor. The majority of the Creek had only the clothes on their backs and lacked proper footwear and shelter, as they had left in a hurry. Many Creek died that winter, among them Opothleyahola's daughter.\n\nConditions for the Creek in Kansas continued to be very harsh. Opothleyahola died in the Creek refugee camp near the Sac and Fox Agency at Quenemo in Osage County, Kansas, on March 22, 1863. He was buried beside his daughter near Fort Belmont in Woodson County, Kansas.\n"}
{"id": "2093772", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093772", "title": "Rabbit of Caerbannog", "text": "Rabbit of Caerbannog\n\nThe Killer Rabbit of Caerbannog is a fictional character in the Monty Python film \"Monty Python and the Holy Grail.\" The scene in \"Holy Grail\" was written by Graham Chapman and John Cleese. The rabbit is the antagonist in a major set piece battle, and makes a similar appearance in \"Spamalot\", a musical inspired by the movie. The iconic status of this scene was important in establishing the viability of the musical.\n\nThe Cave of Caerbannog is the home of the Legendary Black Beast of Arrrghhh (named for the last utterance of anyone who ever saw it). This is guarded by a monster which is initially unknown. King Arthur (Graham Chapman) and his knights are led to the cave by Tim the Enchanter (John Cleese) and find that they must face its guardian beast. Tim verbally paints a picture of a monster so terrible as to have killed everyone who has tried to enter the cave, and warns them, \"death awaits you all – with nasty, big, pointy teeth!\". As the knights approach the cave and the rabbit, their \"horses\" become nervous, forcing the knights to dismount. Sir Robin (Eric Idle) soils his armour upon merely seeing it, before everyone except Tim sizes it up as merely an innocuous white rabbit. Despite the cave's entrance being surrounded by the bones of \"four-fifty men\" fallen, Arthur and his knights no longer take it seriously. Ignoring Tim's warnings (\"a vicious streak a mile wide!\"), King Arthur orders Bors (Terry Gilliam) to chop the rabbit's head off. Bors draws his sword and confidently approaches it. The rabbit suddenly leaps at least eight feet directly at Sir Bors' neck and bites clean through it in a single motion, decapitating him to the sound of a can opener. Despite their initial shock, Sir Robin soiling his armor again, and Tim's loud scoffing, the knights attack in force, but the rabbit injures several of the knights and kills Gawain and Ector with ease. The knights themselves have no hope of killing or injuring the rabbit. Arthur panics and shouts for the knights to retreat (\"Run away!\"). Sir Robin asks if running away \"more\" would confuse it. Knowing they cannot risk attacking again, they try to find another way to defeat the beast. The Holy Hand Grenade of Antioch is ultimately used to kill the rabbit and allow the quest to proceed.\n\nThe Holy Hand Grenade of Antioch is a visual satire of the Sovereign's Orb of the United Kingdom, and may refer to the mythical Holy Spear of Antioch. The Holy Hand Grenade is described as one of the \"sacred relics\" carried by Brother Maynard (Idle). Despite its ornate appearance and long-winded instructions, it functions much the same as any other hand grenade. At King Arthur's prompting, instructions for its use are read aloud (by Michael Palin) from the fictitious \"Book of Armaments,\" Chapter 2, verses 9–21, parodying the King James Bible and the Athanasian Creed:\n\nArthur then pulls the pin, holds up the Holy Hand Grenade and cries out \"One! Two! Five!\" Sir Galahad (Palin) corrects him: \"Three, sir!\" (Arthur's innumeracy is a running gag in the picture). Arthur then yells \"Three!\" and hurls the grenade towards the rabbit. The grenade soars through the air – accompanied by a short bit of angelic choral a cappella – bounces, and explodes. The killer rabbit is defeated, and the hapless knights errant continue on their quest. The noise also attracts policemen who were investigating the murder of a historian by a mounted knight earlier in the film.\n\nThe rabbit scene was shot outside the Tomnadashan mine, a cave 4 miles (6.5 km) from the Perthshire village of Killin. For the 25th anniversary DVD, Michael Palin and Terry Jones returned to be interviewed in front of the cave but they could not remember the location.\n\nThe rabbit was portrayed in the movie by both a real rabbit and a puppet.\n\nThe tale of the rabbit has a parallel in the early story of the Roman de Renart in which a foe takes hubristic pride in his defeat of a ferocious hare:\n\nThe idea for the rabbit in the movie was taken from the façade of the cathedral of Notre Dame de Paris. This illustrates the weakness of cowardice by showing a knight fleeing from a rabbit.\n\nThe rabbit has been reproduced in the form of merchandise associated with the movie or musical. Such items include plush toys, slippers and staplers. The plush killer rabbit was rated the second geekiest plush toy of all time by Matt Blum of the GeekDad blog on Wired.com, coming second to the plush Cthulhu.\n\nThe rabbit was declared the top movie bunny by David Cheal in \"The Daily Telegraph\". It also ranked high in an Easter 2008 poll to establish Britain's best movie rabbit, coming third to Roger Rabbit and Frank from \"Donnie Darko\".\n\nThe rabbit is now used as a metaphor for something which seems ostensibly harmless but is, in fact, deadly. Such hidden but real risks may even arise from similarly cuddly animals. The humour of the scene comes from this inversion of the usual framework by which safety and danger are judged. Four years after the release of the movie, \"Killer Rabbit\" was the term used widely by the press to describe the swamp rabbit that \"attacked\" then U.S. President Jimmy Carter while he was fishing on a farm pond.\n\nIn Apple Inc.'s iOS system, Siri may say that the \"Rabbit of Caerbannog\" is its favorite animal when asked.\n\n\"Creatures & Treasures\", a sourcebook for Iron Crown Enterprises' \"Rolemaster\" tabletop role-playing game, includes a \"Killer Rabbit\" monster entry. The creature's outlook is given as \"Hostile\", with a note that it \"bounds for the throat, never for another part of the body.\" Another note in the description instructs the gamemaster to \"treat 'exploding' attacks [made against the rabbit] as 'slaying' (H.H.G.O.A.)\", a clear reference to the Holy Hand Grenade of Antioch.\n\nIn the video game \"Minecraft\", there is a command that players can run that will spawn in the killer rabbit, or, as it is called in the game, \"The Killer Bunny\".\n\nIn the video game \"Worms (series)\", there is a Holy Hand Grenade aka \"Hallelujah Bomb\" that players can use. A reference to the Holy Hand Grenade of Antioch\n\nIn the cellphone game \"Fate/Grand Order\", it's revealed that Tristan jokes about Born's death, saying he died after being killed by a \"dreaded vorpal bunny\", and that it was holded by Gawain, beaten by Lancelot, and kicked by Mordred.\n\nIn the MMORPG \"Old School RuneScape\", an NPC simply named \"Rabbit\" exists in the elven land of Prifddinas. The Rabbit's Design is clearly based on the Rabbit of Caerbannog and despite having a combat level of 2 it has 5000 hitpoints and can hit a player for up to 40 damage. This adds on to the numerous Monty Python easter eggs that exist within the game.\n\nThe Holy Hand Grenade of Antioch was seen in the 2018 movie Ready Player One used by the main character Wade Watts.\n\nIn the videogame , if you use the perk in-game \"Wild Wasteland\" in Camp Searchlight, you can found the \"Holy Frag Grenades\" a plural and obvious reference to the holy granade, even with instructions writing on a box beside these grenades reads \"Pull pin and count to 5 3\"\n\nIn the video game \"Dragon's Crown\", a Killer Rabbit is fought as one of the stage bosses and as in the film is capable of killing the player in a single bite attack. Additional references include bombs being strewn around its lair as usable weapons (the Holy Hand Grenade), weak knights who will assist the player if the battle takes too long (King Arthur's men), and a wizard resembling John Cleese's character of Tim the Enchanter who warns the player of the danger ahead.\n\nDuke Nukem Time to Kill video game for the original Sony Playstation uses a weapon named literally the Holy Hand Grenade when you travel back in time to the Middle Ages in the game which does massive damage as well as bounces around homing in on enemies when thrown.\n\n"}
{"id": "2093777", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093777", "title": "Tampella", "text": "Tampella\n\nOy Tampella Ab was a Finnish heavy industry manufacturer, a maker of paper machines, locomotives, military weaponry, as well as wood-based products such as packaging. The company was based mainly in the city of Tampere.\n\nUntil 1963 the company was called Tampereen Pellava- ja Rauta-Teollisuus Osake-Yhtiö (The Flax and Iron Industry of Tampere Stock Company). In Swedish it was called Tammerfors Linne-&Jern-Manufakt.A.B.. In 1993 the company’s forest and packaging business was bought by Enso-Gutzeit Oy.\n\nTampereen Pellava- ja Rautateollisuus Oy was a company based on the merger in 1861 of two factories - a linen mill and foundry - situated by the Tammerkoski rapids. After a modest start it grew to become an institution employing thousands of people in the centre of Tampere alone, and more in its other units. In the 1950s the company's name was shortened to Tampella. The company went into decline during the 1980s and eventually went bankrupt in 1990. This was at a time just before the economic recession of the early 1990s. After bankruptcy the company's operations were split and sold to various, mostly international, owners.\n\nAmong the company's products was the manufacture of linen: in later times this was not an important product, but the company continued it for apparently historic reasons. However, its main concern was iron and steel products. These included grave crosses (in the very early days), guns, mining drills, paper machines, locomotives (both steam and diesel), steam boilers and turbines. The company also produced cardboard and packaging at its Inkeroinen mill.\n\nThe industrial activity, under the new ownership, in the centre of Tampere gradually ceased and the machines finally stopped operating in 2000. Soon after this many of the buildings in the industrial complex have been taken into new uses as museums, cultural centres, artist's workshops etc. though some had already been demolished. Other buildings were converted to new commercial uses, but many were demolished to make way for blocks of flats.\n\nTogether with an Israeli cooperative organisation Solel Boneh, Tampella also founded the Israeli defence contractor Soltam, in 1950.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2093780", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093780", "title": "Wilson Valdez", "text": "Wilson Valdez\n\nWilson Antonio Valdez (born May 20, 1978) is a Dominican former professional baseball infielder.\n\nValdez was signed as an undrafted free agent by the Montreal Expos on February 4, 1997. He played on the Expos' Dominican League teams from 1997- and then on various minor league Single-A teams for the Expos through .\n\nOn March 29, 2002, he was claimed off waivers by the Florida Marlins and sent to the Marlins' Double-A team in Portland. He continued in the Marlins organization in , playing with their Double-A team in Carolina and their Triple-A team in Albuquerque.\n\nOn June 17, 2004, while hitting .319 for Albuquerque, he was traded by the Marlins with cash to the Chicago White Sox in exchange for reliever Billy Koch. The White Sox promptly assigned him to their Triple-A affiliate in Charlotte where he hit .302 and earned his first major-league call-up in September of to the White Sox. On September 26, 2004, he hit his first career home run off Brian Anderson. In limited action he hit .233 for the Sox.\n\nAfter the season, he was waived by the White Sox and claimed by the Seattle Mariners. He started the season as the starting shortstop for the Mariners. However, he hit only .198 and was traded to the San Diego Padres on June 9, 2005. After a stint with the Padres' Triple-A team in Portland, he returned to the major leagues with the Padres, hitting .231 in August as a utility player.\n\nAfter the 2005 season, he was released by the Padres and signed to a minor league contract by the Kansas City Royals, who promptly traded him to the Los Angeles Dodgers during spring training.\n\nOn April 29, 2007, he scored the game-winning run in a game against the San Diego Padres that lasted 17 innings. He spent the season with the Dodgers' Triple-A team, the Las Vegas 51s, where he hit .297 and stole 26 bases.\n\nIn , a spring-training injury to the Dodgers' starting shortstop Rafael Furcal created an opening-day roster spot for Valdez and he got plenty of playing time early for the Dodgers. After a quick start, however, he quickly cooled and was returned to the 51s. On January 3, 2008, Valdez's contract was sold to the Kia Tigers of the Korea Baseball Organization. On June 9, he signed with the Tokyo Yakult Swallows of Japan's Nippon Professional Baseball.\n\nIn December 2008, Valdez signed a minor league contract with the Cleveland Indians. On May 26, 2009, he was traded to the New York Mets and was added to the major league roster. On June 22, 2009, he was designated for assignment.\n\nOn November 25, 2009, Valdez signed a minor league contract with the Philadelphia Phillies and was optioned to the Triple-A Lehigh Valley IronPigs. The Phillies selected his contract from the minors on April 14, 2010, as a reserve infielder, when Jimmy Rollins went on the disabled list. When backup Juan Castro was injured, Valdez became the Phillies' starting shortstop for a few weeks in the beginning of the season. On May 17, Rollins was activated from the disabled list (DL) and the Phillies designated Valdez for assignment, but re-activated him five days later when Rollins returned to the DL. In addition to playing shortstop, Valdez filled in at second base for Chase Utley while he was on the disabled list with a hand injury.\n\nOn July 29, in a game against the Arizona Diamondbacks, Valdez hit a one-out, walk-off single to score Cody Ransom from second base and give the Phillies a 3-2 win.\n\nIn 2010, Valdez set career highs in games, at bats, runs, hits, total bases, doubles, triples, home runs, runs batted in, bases on balls, intentional base on balls, strike outs, stolen bases, slugging percentage and on-base plus slugging percentage (OPS).\n\nIn a game started against the Cincinnati Reds on May 25, 2011, (which did not conclude until May 26), Valdez switched from second base to pitcher in the 19th inning, pitching one inning and allowing no runs. This was the first time he had ever pitched in a major league game. When the Phillies won in the bottom of the 19th inning, he was credited with the win. Valdez thus became the first position player to earn a win since catcher Brent Mayne won a game for the Colorado Rockies in 2000, and just the second since 1968. According to Elias Sports Bureau, Valdez was the first player to start a game in the field and end up as the winning pitcher since Babe Ruth did so on October 1, .\n\nOn January 25, 2012, Valdez was traded to the Cincinnati Reds in exchange for left handed pitcher Jeremy Horst. In 77 games with the Reds, Valdez hit .206/.236/.227 with 15 RBI and 3 stolen bases. He made 44 starts, 27 at shortstop. On November 8, Valdez elected free agency.\n\nHe signed a minor league contract with the San Francisco Giants in December 2012.\n\nOn March 23, 2013, he signed a minor league contract with the Miami Marlins with an invitation to spring training.\n\nOn May 25, 2013, he signed a contract with the Camden Riversharks of the Atlantic League.\n\nOn February 21, 2014, he signed a contract with the York Revolution of the Atlantic League. He became a free agent after the 2015 season.\n"}
{"id": "2093788", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093788", "title": "Brady Clark", "text": "Brady Clark\n\nBrady William Clark (born April 18, 1973) is a former Major League Baseball outfielder. Brady is a class of 1991 graduate of Sunset High School in Beaverton, Oregon and 1996 graduate of the University of San Diego, where he played college baseball for the Toreros from 1992 to 1995. He was named to the All-West Coast Conference Team in 1995.\n\nClark was signed as an undrafted free agent by the Cincinnati Reds in after graduating from college. He began his professional career with the Class-A Burlington Bees in , hitting .325 with 11 homers and 31 steals and being selected to the Midwest League All-Star team.\n\nHe played for the Double-A Chattanooga Lookouts in -. In 1999, he hit .326 with 17 homers and 25 steals. He was honored with a selection as a Double-A All-Star, Southern League All-Star, and Southern League Most Valuable Player.\n\nClark played for the Triple-A Louisville RiverBats in and .\n\nClark made his major league debut on September 3, 2000, as a pinch hitter against the Montreal Expos and he recorded his first big league hit on September 13 against Félix Heredia of the Chicago Cubs. His first home run was against Chicago White Sox pitcher Mark Buehrle as the leadoff hitter in the 1st inning on June 13, 2001.\n\nClark was traded by the Reds to the New York Mets on August 15, 2002 for Shawn Estes. He played in 10 games for the Mets, primarily as a pinch hitter in 2002, getting 5 hits in 12 at-bats.\nHe played a couple spring training games before being sent down.\n\nHe was claimed off waivers by the Milwaukee Brewers from the New York Mets in . Following the season the Brewers traded starting center fielder Scott Podsednik for Carlos Lee, clearing the way for Brady Clark to become the starting center fielder. Clark made the most of the opportunity in with a team leading batting average of .306 with 94 runs scored. Clark established career highs in batting average, hits, runs scored, doubles, home runs, RBI, sacrifice hits, hit by pitches, and singles in 145 games played in the 2005 season.\n\nFollowing Clark's breakout 2005 season, the Brewers and Clark entered into contract negotiations. In a deal to avoid an arbitration hearing on February 8, 2006 at 9:30 a.m., Clark and the Brewers agreed to a one-year, $3.2 million contract after a long negotiation process at 1:45 a.m., with under eight hours before the hearing was scheduled to begin. After announcing the original deal that morning, the sides would agree to a two-year, $7 million deal later in the day with just one phone call.\n\nOn March 26, 2007, Clark and cash considerations were traded to the Los Angeles Dodgers for Elmer Dessens. Clark made his Dodgers debut on April 2, 2007, at Miller Park, his former home ballpark when he played with the Brewers. Entering the game in the 6th inning, Clark recorded a 9th inning, one-out double, one of only two Dodger hits on the day off Brewers ace Ben Sheets.\n\nHe saw limited playing time with the Dodgers, primarily as a defensive replacement/pinch runner and was eventually released on June 20, 2007.\n\nBrady Clark was signed to a minor league deal by the Boston Red Sox on July 26, 2007. He requested and had his release from Boston granted on August 6, 2007, after little over a week with their Triple-A club in Pawtucket.\n\nClark was signed to a minor league deal by the San Diego Padres after being granted his release from the Red Sox on August 6, 2007. He was playing with the Portland Beavers, the Triple-A affiliate of the Padres in the Pacific Coast League, until the Padres called Clark up when the rosters expanded on September 1. On October 1, 2007, Clark played in a one-game Wild Card playoff against the Colorado Rockies. He went 1-4 with one RBI, which came off a fielder's choice. He left the game in the top of the 10th inning for pinch hitter, Terrmel Sledge.\n\nClark was released by the Padres following the season on October 4, 2007.\n\nClark became a New York Met for the second time, signing a minor league contract in February 2008. Mets starters' injuries combined with a solid spring training won Clark a spot on the Mets opening day roster. However, he was designated for assignment a month into the season when Moisés Alou returned from an injury. He then joined the Mets' Triple-A Club, the New Orleans Zephyrs, but played only 8 games before getting injured and missing the rest of the season. He became a free agent at the end of the season.\n\nOn February 1, 2010, Clark signed a minor league contract with the Chicago White Sox.\n\nClark retired after not making the team out of spring training. In 2015, he joined the Dodgers organization as an outfield/baserunning coordinator.\n"}
{"id": "2093796", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093796", "title": "David Gillmore, Baron Gillmore of Thamesfield", "text": "David Gillmore, Baron Gillmore of Thamesfield\n\nDavid Howe Gillmore, Baron Gillmore of Thamesfield, GCMG,(16 August 1934 – 20 March 1999) was a British diplomat. He retired in 1994 after a distinguished diplomatic career in which he was a leading light in John Major's extrication of the UK from its policy of confronting apartheid South Africa. He was educated at Trent College.\n\nAfter service in HM Forces from 1953–1955, he spent a short time living in Paris, before returning to the UK to work as a French and English teacher at Wilson's Grammar School in Camberwell, London, from 1967 - 1970, where he will be remembered. He joined the Foreign and Commonwealth Office in 1970. Two years later, he was posted as First Secretary (Commercial) to Moscow. He was appointed Counsellor and Head of Chancery UKDEL, MBFR Vienna in 1975. He was appointed Head of Defence Department FCO in 1979, becoming Assistant Under-Secretary of State in 1981. David Gillmore was appointed High Commissioner in Malaysia in 1983. Gillmore was appointed Permanent Under-Secretary at the Foreign Office in 1991,\n\nDavid Gillmore married Lucile Sophie Morin in 1964. They had two sons (1967 and 1970).\n\nOn 21 February 1996, he was created a life peer as Baron Gillmore of Thamesfield, \"of Putney in the London Borough of Wandsworth\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2093797", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093797", "title": "Jeff DaVanon", "text": "Jeff DaVanon\n\nJeffrey Graham DaVanon (born December 8, 1973) is an American former professional baseball outfielder. He played in Major League Baseball (MLB) for the Anaheim Angels / Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim, Arizona Diamondbacks, and Oakland Athletics.\n\nDaVanon came up through the Oakland Athletics system before being traded to the Anaheim Angels as a minor-leaguer in .\n\nPrior to the season, he signed a contract with the Arizona Diamondbacks and appeared in 87 games for them. He batted .290 with 5 home runs and 35 RBI. His last game was on August 5 against the Houston Astros in which he injured a ligament in his ankle sliding into second base.\n\nOn August 4, , the Diamondbacks released him. He was signed by the Oakland Athletics on August 10, 2007, and sent to Triple-A Sacramento. He had his contract purchased by the Athletics on August 17, 2007, when Mark Kotsay went on the disabled list. During his stint with the A's, he appeared in 26 games, batting .238, though not hitting any home runs and only getting 5 RBI.\n\nHe declared free agency on October 29, 2007. On December 21, 2007, the San Diego Padres signed him to a minor league contract with an invitation to spring training, but he didn't make the team and was released on March 22, . He later signed a minor league contract with the Chicago White Sox, playing for their Triple-A affiliate, the Charlotte Knights. He became a free agent at the end of the season.\n\nHe hit for the cycle on August 25, , becoming the fourth player in Angels' team history to accomplish this feat.\n\nHe is the son of Jerry DaVanon, a former major league infielder.\n\n"}
{"id": "2093807", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093807", "title": "Edmund R. Thompson", "text": "Edmund R. Thompson\n\nEdmund Randall Thompson was a United States Army general officer.\n\nGeneral Thompson was born on 29 May 1930 at New Rochelle, New York. Upon graduation from the United States Military Academy at West Point, his first assignment was duty with the 4th Field Artillery Battalion, Camp Carson, Colorado. \n\nFrom April 1954 to February 1957 he served in command and staff assignments with the 77th Field Artillery Battalion and served one year as Aide-de-Camp to the Commanding General, 1st Cavalry Division. He attended Syracuse University in 1957 and 1958 and received his PhD in Geography from Syracuse. He was assigned as an instructor at the United States Military Academy from 1959 through 1962. He performed advisory duties in both Cambodia and Vietnam during 1963 and 1964, and from August 1964 to June 1965, he attend the United States Army Command and General Staff College, Ft Leavenworth, Kansas.\n\nIn June 1965 he was assigned to the Office, Assistant Chief of Staff for Intelligence, Department of the Army, and subsequently served one year as Commander, US Army Field Detachment \"O\". In November 1968 he became G2, 25th Infantry Division in Vietnam, and served from September to November 1969 as Special Assistant to the Assistant Chief of Staff, G2, US Army Vietnam.\n\nGeneral Thompson was then assigned to the Office of the Assistant Secretary of Defense (International Security Affairs) until July 1970 and he attended the Industrial College of the Armed Forces from August 1970 to June 1971. He commanded the 116th Military Intelligence Group from June 1971 until October 1972, and served in the Office of the Deputy Chief of Staff for Personnel, Department of the Army, from then until June 1975.\n\nHe was promoted to Brigadier General on 6 June 1975 and assigned to the Office of the Assistant Chief of Staff, Intelligence, Department of the Army.\n\nFrom 1 July 1975 to 29 August 1977, Thompson, then a Brigadier General, was commanding general in the U.S. Army Intelligence Agency. From 29 August 1977 to 1 November 1981, Thompson, then a Major General, served as the Assistant Chief of Staff for Intelligence at the Department of the Army headquarters. Between 1982 and 1984 he was the Deputy Director for Management and Operations of the Defense Intelligence Agency.\n\nGeneral Thompson is a member of the Military Intelligence Hall of Fame, and recipient of many military medals including the Legion of Merit and Defense Distinguished Service Cross.\n"}
{"id": "2093809", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093809", "title": "Chill-out music", "text": "Chill-out music\n\nChill-out (shortened as chill; also typeset as chillout or chill out) is a loosely defined form of popular music characterized by slow tempos and relaxed moods. The definition of \"chill-out music\" has evolved throughout the decades, and generally refers to anything that might be identified as a modern type of easy listening. Some of the genres associated with \"chill\" include downtempo, classical, dance, jazz, hip hop, world, pop, lounge, and ambient.\n\nThe term \"chill-out music\" – originally conflated with \"ambient house\" – came from an area called \"The White Room\" at the Heaven nightclub in London in 1989. There, DJs played ambient mixes from sources such as Brian Eno and Pink Floyd to allow dancers a place to \"chill out\" from the faster-paced music of the main dance floor. Ambient house became widely popular over the next decade before it declined due to market saturation.\n\nIn the early 2000s, DJs in Ibiza's Café Del Mar began creating ambient house mixes that drew on jazz, classical, Hispanic, and New Age sources. The popularity of chill-out subsequently expanded to dedicated satellite radio channels, outdoor festivals, and thousands of compilation albums. \"Chill-out\" was also removed from its ambient origins and became its own distinct genre.\n\n\"Chillwave\" was an ironic term coined in 2009 for music that could already be described with existing labels such as dream pop. Despite the facetious intent behind the term, chillwave was the subject of serious, analytical articles by mainstream newspapers, and became one of the first genres to acquire an identity online. As on-demand music streaming services grew in the 2010s, a form of downtempo tagged as \"lo-fi hip hop\" or \"chillhop\" became popular among YouTube users.\n\nThere is no exact definition of chill-out music. The term, which has evolved throughout the decades, generally refers to anything that might be identified as a modern type of easy listening. Some of the genres associated with \"chill\" include downtempo, classical, dance, jazz, hip hop, world, pop, lounge, and ambient. Chill-out typically has slow rhythms, sampling, a \"trance-like nature\", \"drop-out beats\", and a mixture of electronic instruments with acoustic instruments. In the \"Ambient/Chill Out\" chapter of Rick Snoman's 2013 book \"Dance Music Manual\", he writes, \"it could be said that as long as the tempo remains below 120 BPM and it employs a laid-back groove, it could be classed as chill out.\"\n\nThe term originated from an area called \"The White Room\" at the Heaven nightclub in London in 1989. Its DJs were Jimmy Cauty and Alex Patterson, later of the Orb. They created ambient mixes from sources such as Brian Eno, Pink Floyd, the Eagles, Mike Oldfield, 10cc, and War. The room's purpose was to allow dancers a chance to \"chill out\" from the more emphatic and fast-tempo music played on the main dance floor. This also coincided with the short-lived fad of ambient house, also known as \"New Age house\". Cauty's KLF subsequently released an album called \"Chill Out\" (February 1990), featuring uncredited contributions from Patterson. In addition, during the early 1990s, the Beach Boys' \"Smiley Smile\" (1967) was reputed as one of the best \"chill-out\" albums to listen to during an LSD comedown.\n\nAmbient house declined after the mid-1990s due to market saturation. In the early 2000s, DJs in Ibiza's Café Del Mar began creating ambient house mixes that drew on jazz, classical, Hispanic, and New Age sources. They called their product \"chill-out music\", and it sparked a revived interest in ambient house from the public and record labels. The popularity of chill-out subsequently expanded to dedicated satellite radio channels, outdoor festivals, and the release of thousands of compilation albums offering ambient sounds and \"muffled\" beats. Consequently, the popular understanding of \"chill-out music\" shifted away from \"ambient\" and into its own distinct genre. Music critics to that point were generally dismissive of the music.\n\nIn 2009, a genre called \"chillwave\" was invented by the satirical blog Hipster Runoff for music that could already be described with existing labels such as dream pop. The pseudonymous author, known as \"Carles\", later explained that he was only \"[throwing] a bunch of pretty silly names on a blog post and saw which one stuck.\" Chillwave became one of the first genres to acquire an identity online, although the term did not gain mainstream currency until early 2010, when it was the subject of serious, analytical articles by \"The Wall Street Journal\" and \"The New York Times\". In 2011, Carles said it was \"ridiculous that any sort of press took it seriously\" and that although the bands he spoke to \"get annoyed\" by the tag, \"they understand that it's been a good thing. What about iTunes making it an official genre? It's now theoretically a marketable indie sound.\"\n\nStreaming became the dominant source of music industry revenue in 2016. During that decade, Spotify engendered a trend that became known among the industry as \"lean back listening\", which refers to a listener who \"thinks less about the artist or album they are seeking out, and instead connects with emotions, moods and activities\". As of 2017, the front page of the service's \"browse\" screen included many algorithmically-selected playlists with names such as \"Chilled Folk\", \"Chill Hits\", \"Evening Chill\", \"Chilled R&B\", \"Indie Chillout\", and \"Chill Tracks\". In 2014, the service reported that throughout the year \"Chill Out\" playlists had trended much higher than the national average on campuses across Colorado, where marijuana had been legalized in January of that year. In an editorial piece for \"The Baffler\" titled \"The Problem with Muzak\", writer Liz Pelly criticized the \"chill\" playlists as \"the purest distillation of [Spotify's] ambition to turn all music into emotional wallpaper\".\n\nIn 2013, YouTube began allowing its users to host live streams, which resulted in a host of 24-hour \"radio stations\" dedicated to microgenres such as vaporwave, a derivation of chillwave. In 2017, a form of downtempo music tagged as \"lo-fi hip hop\" or \"chillhop\" became popular among YouTube music streamers. By 2018, several of these channels had attracted millions of followers. One DJ, Ryan Celsius, theorized that they were inspired by a nostalgia for the commercial bumpers used by Toonami and Adult Swim in the 2000s, and that this \"created a cross section of people that enjoyed both anime and wavy hip-hop beats.\"\n\nNujabes and J Dilla have been referred to as the \"godfathers of Lo-Fi Hip Hop\". In \"Vice\" writer Luke Winkie credited YouTube user ChilledCow as \"the person who first featured a studious anime girl as his calling card, which set up the aesthetic framework for the rest of the people operating in the genre\" and suggested that \"if there is one shared touchstone for lo-fi hip-hop, it's probably [the 2004 MF Doom and Madlib album] \"Madvillainy\"\".\n\nThe root word \"lo-fi\" refers to music of an unprofessional nature, and contrary to popular conception, is not synonymous with qualities such as \"warm\" and \"punchy\".\n\nLo-fi hip hop YouTube creators including Chillhop Records and ChilledCow have faced issues such as copyright strikes and YouTube bans. In February 2018, Chillhop Records received a copyright strike from anime house Studio Shizu for the use of a character from the feature film, \"Wolf Children\". Though Chillhop Records only used a five-second loop of one character, the popularity of the video caught the attention of Studio Shizu. The founder of Chillhop Records and owner of the YouTube channel, Bas Van Leeuwen told the gaming magazine, Polygon, that the company worked with Studio Shizu in order to bring the livestream back on. ChilledCow received another notice from YouTube, in February 2020, detailing that the channel had violated YouTube’s Terms of Service. According to \"The Fader\", soon after the shutdown of ChilledCow’s channel, a large influx of support from fans of the longstanding lo-fi curator was recognized as the reason why the popular lo-fi hip hop livestream was resumed after the mishap.\n\nIn early 2020, during the COVID-19 pandemic, MTV News noted, \"there might be something to be said for lo-fi hip-hop’s composition, and the way its creators mix simplistic melodies with a judicious use of words to create intense memories, feelings, and nostalgia\" and stated that the quarantine in place in various countries \"has led people to log more hours online due to boredom or virtual workplaces and schools, and livestreamed music performances are reaching their full potential.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2093810", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093810", "title": "John Birch (musician)", "text": "John Birch (musician)\n\nJohn Anthony Birch (9 July 1929 – 28 April 2012) was a British organist and choral director. \n\nHe was educated at Trent College, Derbyshire and left in July 1947 to study at the Royal College of Music, London. In 1953 he became Organist and Master of the Choristers at a prominent Anglo-Catholic church: All Saints, Margaret Street, London. In 1958 Birch moved to Chichester to be Organist and Master of the Choristers at Chichester Cathedral. During his time at the Cathedral, he worked closely with Dean Walter Hussey in the commissioning of new choral works for the Cathedral Choir, including pieces from composers Leonard Bernstein, William Walton, Lennox Berkeley, William Albright, Bryan Kelly and Herbert Howells. \n\nIn 1959, Birch was appointed as a Professor at the Royal College of Music, where he continued to lecture until 1997. He was one of the founders of the revived Southern Cathedrals Festival (with his colleagues at Salisbury and Winchester Cathedrals) in 1960.\n\nBirch was University Organist at the University of Sussex from 1967 to 1994 and worked as a Visiting Lecturer in Music from 1971 to 1983.\n\nIn 1982, Birch became Director of Music at Temple Church. Two years later, he was appointed the role of Curator-Organist at the Royal Albert Hall, a position he held until his death. In the posts at the Temple Church and the Royal Albert Hall, Birch was the successor to Sir George Thalben-Ball. Birch was, in addition, the long-serving organist for the Royal Philharmonic Orchestra and recorded widely, particularly in orchestral repertoire. He had, earlier, served with great distinction as accompanist and organist to the Royal Choral Society working closely with Sir Malcolm Sargent. For almost forty years, Dr Birch served as a Professor of Organ at The Royal College of Music.\n\nHe held an honorary MA from the University of Sussex and the Lambeth degree of Doctor of Music.\n\nHe died on 28 April 2012 after suffering a stroke.\n"}
{"id": "2093811", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093811", "title": "Radebeul–Radeburg railway", "text": "Radebeul–Radeburg railway\n\nThe Radebeul–Radeburg railway, also known as the Lößnitzgrundbahn (\"Lössnitz Valley Railway\") and locally nicknamed the Lößnitzdackel (Lößnitz Dachshund), is a gauge narrow gauge steam-hauled railway in the outskirts of Dresden, Germany. It should not be confused with the Lößnitz Tramway, known in German as the \"Lößnitzbahn\" or the \"Lößnitzschaukel\", which was a metre gauge interurban tramway that connected Dresden with Radebeul.\n\nPrimarily a tourist attraction, the Radebeul–Radeburg railway maintains a year-round timetable and runs between Radebeul East station on the main Deutsche Bahn line between Dresden and Meissen and the small towns of Moritzburg and Radeburg north of Dresden. Scheduled traffic on the line is maintained by Sächsische Dampfeisenbahngesellschaft mbH (former BVO Bahn), using steam locomotives built in the 1950s.\n\nOlder trains, using engines and cars built in the late 19th and early 20th century, are maintained by the non-profit Traditionsbahn Radebeul. The older trains operate on the line for special events.\n\nOn 12 September 2009, two steam-hauled passenger trains were involved in a head-on collision between Friedewald Bad and Friedewald stations. A total of 121 people were injured, four seriously.\n\nIn early 2011, it was reported that proposed budgetary cuts on the Saxon narrow gauge lines may involve the closure of the section of this line from Moritzburg to Radeburg. The section between Radebeul and Moritzburg carries a significant number of tourists visiting Schloss Moritzburg, but the remaining onward to Radeburg is less used. An alternative proposal was to serve this section with a railcar, allowing a more frequent service as far as Moritzburg without needing additional steam trains.\n\n"}
{"id": "2093815", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093815", "title": "Korbach", "text": "Korbach\n\nKorbach (pronunciation: ˈkoːɐˌbax), officially the Hanseatic City of Korbach (German: Hansestadt Korbach), is the district seat of Waldeck-Frankenberg in northern Hesse, Germany. It is over a thousand years old and is located on the German Timber-Frame Road. In 2018, the town has hosted the 58th Hessentag state festival.\n\nKorbach lies at the north-east edge of the Rhenish Slate Mountains (here known as the \"Waldeck'sches Upland\", the second word being a German proper name, not the English word \"upland\"). Neighbouring towns and communities are, clockwise from the northwest, Willingen, Diemelsee, Twistetal, Waldeck, Vöhl, Lichtenfels (likewise all in Waldeck-Frankenberg) and Medebach (Hochsauerlandkreis in North Rhine-Westphalia).\n\nThe town lies on an unwooded tableland called the Waldecker Tafel that once harboured a great many wild chickens, leading to the townsfolk's nickname as \"\"Feldhühnerchen\"\" ( ≈ \"little field chickens\"). Not only the main town, but also outlying centres such as Lelbach (615 inhabitants), Lengefeld (512 inhabitants), Nordenbeck (195 inhabitants), Ober-Ense (228 inhabitants) and Nieder-Ense (272 inhabitants) lie on the Waldecker Tafel or at its edge. In the eastern part of the municipal area, where the outlying centres of Helmscheid (202 inhabitants), Strothe (250 inhabitants) and Meineringhausen (947 inhabitants) lie, begins the North Hesse Hills (\"nordhessisches Hügelland\"), which stretch from the Rhenish Slate Mountains to the Habichtswald range west of Kassel. In the west lie the constituent communities of Alleringhausen (91 inhabitants), Eppe (686 inhabitants), Nieder-Schleidern (193 inhabitants) and Hillershausen (334 inhabitants) in the foothills of the Sauerland. The highest peaks in the Korbach municipal area are the Widdehagen (635 m) near Rhena (584 inhabitants) and the Eisenberg (562 m), which despite its name – meaning \"Iron Mountain\" – is well known for gold-bearing ore found there. Perhaps more fittingly, the outlying community lying on the Eisenberg is called Goldhausen (329 inhabitants).\n\nThrough the main town runs the Kuhbach, a tributary to the Itter, itself a tributary to the Eder. In a grammatical quirk, the name \"Kuhbach\", which most German speakers would regard as masculine, is often locally inflected as though it were feminine – \"die Kuhbach\" instead of \"der Kuhbach\".\n\nThe Korbacher Spalte, a 20 m-deep, up to 350 cm-broad and roughly 1 km-long cleft in the Earth's surface near Korbach, discovered in 1964, has yielded important fossil finds, indeed the only finds of Procynosuchus in the Northern Hemisphere.\n\nWorth seeing is the Korbach Village Church, which stands in the middle of the town. Likewise worth visiting is the old castle inside the \"Hühnenkeller\" ringwall near Lengefeld.\n\n\nOn the hill upon which Saint Kilian's Church was later built, a Carolingian Imperial court already stood by 800. The name Korbach (earlier \"Corbach\") comes from the Old High German \"Curbechi\" (\"choosing place on the brook\"). Curbechi had its first documentary mention in 980 when Otto II, Holy Roman Emperor yielded Korbach, Lelbach and Rhena to Corvey Abbey. Also in other parts of the municipal area, clues can be found about settlement in early times, as for instance on the Wipperberg near Lengefeld.\n\nIn 1188, the Bishop of Paderborn granted town rights under Soest law. Owing to Korbach's location at the crossroads of the Cologne-Leipzig and Frankfurt-Bremen commercial roads, handicrafts and trade quickly developed and Korbach blossomed. The Old Town was soon no longer big enough to house all the townsfolk. The merchants therefore settled in two new towns, the Upper and Lower New Town, outside town limits, although these towns did eventually merge into one. In the 14th century, Saint Kilian's Church (\"Kilianskirche\") was built in the Old Town and St. Nicholas's Church (\"Nikolaikirche\") in the New Town. In 1377, the Old Town and the New Town were at last united, and at the former townline arose the united town's town hall, which still stands today. In 1349, Charles IV, Holy Roman Emperor – although at the time he was still only King of the Romans – came to town for a visit. Korbach joined the Hanse and was first mentioned as a member town of the Hanseatic League in 1469, making Korbach the only town in the \"Bundesland\" of Hesse to have been a member of the Hanseatic League. In 1414, a double ring of walls surrounding the whole town was finished. Five town gates kept watch over the town's approaches: the \"Tränketor\", the \"Dalwigker Tor\", the \"Enser Tor\", the \"Lengefelder Tor\" and the \"Berndorfer Tor\". Only the \"Enser Tor\" still stands today. The \"Padberger Fehde\" from 1413 to 1418 was the culmination of the long border disputes and repeated attacks by the Lords of Padberg on the territory of the county of Waldeck and in particular the city of Korbach. This feud found a temporary with this conflict.\n\nWith the coming of the Reformation, the town, and indeed the whole County of Waldeck, became Protestant. Even nowadays, Korbach is still mostly Protestant, even though beginning in the 19th century, a great number of Catholics moved into the town. On the other hand, the outlying communities to the west on the boundary with North Rhine-Westphalia are almost wholly (Hillershausen) or mostly (Nieder-Schleidern, Eppe) Catholic.\n\nIn the Thirty Years' War, Korbach had to make ever greater contributions to the troops who were passing through. By the time the war ended, only half the town's houses were still fit to live in, and the town's population had fallen from 2600 to 1100. In 1664, a great town fire burnt almost all the residential houses down. There is only one half-timbered house in town today that was built before the fire. The Gothic stone churches and the stone warehouses from that time, on the other hand, are still well preserved.\n\nThe constituent community of Nieder-Ense had its first documentary mention about 1010.\n\nDuring the Seven Years' War the town was the site of the Battle of Korbach on 10 July 1760 between the French under the command of St. Germain and the Hanoverian, British and Hessian allies under Karl Wilhelm Ferdinand, the Hereditary Prince.\n\nIt was only towards the end of the 18th century that a modest prosperity was restored to Korbach. The town first achieved a new economic boom late in the 19th century. Contributing to this in no small measure was the new railway to Kassel that opened in 1893. Moreover, the industrialist Louis Peter established in 1907 a rubber and tire factory in Korbach. The town was mostly spared any great damage in further wars, particularly the two world wars. After the Second World War, the population rose sharply as those driven out of formerly German territories to the east flooded into town.\n\nThe rubber factory continues to dominate the development of the city. It is one of the production sites of Continental AG, one of the major companies in its sector.\n\nThe town council's 31 seats are apportioned thus, in accordance with municipal elections held on 6 March 2016:\nKorbach's civic coat of arms might heraldically be described thus: Party per fess, above, in azure a bishop argent with shawl and mitre trimmed Or, in his hand dexter upraised a book Or, in his hand sinister a crozier Or dexter, below, in Or a halved eight-pointed star sable.\n\nThe arms come from the town's oldest known seal, from 1236. The human figure in the chief is the Bishop of Paderborn, who granted Korbach town rights in 1188, although it could be his successor Bishop Wilbrand, who had the townsfolk swear him in as their overlord in 1227. The aforesaid seal was made not long after this. There is an erroneous belief that the human figure is Saint Kilian, the town's patron saint, but this is believed to be rather unlikely, as the figure looks like a bishop.\n\nThe eight-pointed star – only half of which appears in these arms – is quite a common charge in civic heraldry in Waldeck, the region in which Korbach lies, for the simple reason that it was the arms borne by the Counts of Schwalenberg-Waldeck, who were the town's rulers as the bishops' vassals beginning in 1227. The star shown on the original seal, however, was six-pointed (and again, halved). This was eventually changed to the eight-pointed version still seen now, to match the star in the counts' arms.\n\nThe objects that the bishop holds changed in the early days, with some old seals showing him without the book. Also, the original 1236 seal shows him with the two objects transposed, holding the staff in his right hand, not the book. Since 1377, however, the composition still seen today seems to have been settled on. The colours were chosen in 1947.\n\nKorbach is twinned with:\n\nKorbach lies on Federal Highways (\"Bundesstraßen\") 251 (Kassel-Brilon) and 252 (Marburg-Paderborn), which both conveniently connect to the Korbach bypass (road). There is no direct connection to the Autobahn network anywhere in the municipal area, the nearest interchanges being on the A 44 near Diemelstadt and Zierenberg, either way about 30 km away. The town is also connected by state highways (\"Landesstraßen\") to Medebach and Diemelsee.\n\nKorbach is a railway hub where once four railway lines met, one through Brilon-Wald to the Ruhr area (the \"Uplandbahn\"), one southwards through Frankenberg to Marburg (the \"Untere Edertalbahn\" and \"Burgwaldbahn\"), one northeastwards through Volkmarsen to Kassel and one southeastwards through Waldeck to Wabern (the \"Ederseebahn\"). The Ederseebahn from Bad Wildungen to Korbach is out of service. The stretch running to Kassel was reopened on 4 October 1998 (then one of the first examples in Germany of a railway line being reactivated). The stretch as far as Korbach Süd was reopened on 29 September 1999 and the Untere Edertalbahn (stretch between Korbach Süd and Frankenberg) was reopened in September 2015, to connect with the Kellerwald-Edersee National Park. There is now a direct link from Korbach to Marburg with trains running every two hours.\n\nKorbach is somewhat remarkable for a town its size in having two railway stations on the same line that are also both in service. Since the original one (\"Hauptbahnhof\" – Main Station) lay too far from the Old Town, a further station (\"Korbach-Süd\") was built 1.5 km farther south.\n\nIn 1997, a bus service was instituted in Korbach with two looping routes that partly intersect. These buses run at 40-minute intervals, thereby meet each other at the main railway station every 20 minutes. The system also connects important places within the town, such as the inner town, the town hospital or the school centre to both routes.\n\nThere are two airfields in Korbach, used only for sport flying and gliding.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2093819", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093819", "title": "Ian Lake", "text": "Ian Lake\n\nIan Lake (26 January 1935 in Quorn, Leicestershire – 12 August 2004 in London, England) was a pianist and composer who taught for many years at the Royal College of Music in London.\n\nThe son of working-class parents, he was educated at Trent College after winning a scholarship. After leaving school, he joined the army to undertake his National Service, playing the clarinet and viola in an army band. He subsequently entered the Royal College of Music on another scholarship. He began teaching at the college in 1966, eventually becoming a professor of piano.\n\nIn 1995, he was convicted of sexually abusing children and in the same year his teaching career at the Royal College of Music came to an end. Despite this, his career as a concert performer and recording artist continued. Since then several former pupils, both male and female, have come forward and described abuse they suffered from him.\n\nLake married twice. His first marriage ended in 1976 and his second ended in 1996. He had five children and five grandchildren.\n"}
{"id": "2093822", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093822", "title": "Naked Josh", "text": "Naked Josh\n\nNaked Josh was a Canadian comedy television series broadcast on Showcase. It was created and written by Alex Epstein and Laura Kosterski. The show starred David Julian Hirsh as Josh Gould, a university professor in Montreal who, although he teaches a sexual anthropology course, struggles to understand the ever-shifting rules and expectations of the dating scene.\n\nIt premiered in the 2004–2005 television season with eight half-hour episodes. It aired for a total of three seasons, however the last episode aired on July 18, 2006, and Showcase has announced that the show will not be renewed. The show's first season briefly appeared on the Oxygen Network in the U.S.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2093824", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093824", "title": "AFI's 100 Years...100 Stars", "text": "AFI's 100 Years...100 Stars\n\nPart of the AFI 100 Years... series, AFI's 100 Years...100 Stars is a list of the top 25 male and 25 female greatest screen legends of American film history. The list was unveiled by the American Film Institute on June 15, 1999, in a CBS special hosted by Shirley Temple, with 50 current actors making the presentations.\n\nThe American Film Institute defined an \"American screen legend\" as an actor or a team of actors during the Classical Hollywood cinema era with a significant screen presence in American feature-length (40 min or more) films whose screen debut occurred in or before 1950, or whose screen debut occurred after 1950 but whose death has marked a completed body of work, ie., actors recognized for their contributions to classical Hollywood American cinema.\n\nThe top stars of their respective gender are Humphrey Bogart and Katharine Hepburn. They starred together in the classic adventure 1951 film \"The African Queen\", for which Bogart won his only Academy Award. Sidney Poitier and Sophia Loren are the only surviving members mentioned on the list.\n\n"}
{"id": "2093837", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093837", "title": "Lokomo", "text": "Lokomo\n\nOy Lokomo Ab was a Finnish manufacturer of railroad equipment and steam locomotives, situated in Tampere, Finland. The Lokomo factories in Tampere produced the MIR submersibles for the Soviet Academy of Sciences. They later merged into the Metso Corporation.\n\n"}
{"id": "2093841", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093841", "title": "Harold Robert Aaron", "text": "Harold Robert Aaron\n\nHarold Robert Aaron (June 21, 1921 – April 30, 1980) was a general in the U.S. Army.\n\nOriginally from Kokomo, Indiana, Harold Robert Aaron graduated from United States Military Academy at West Point in 1943 and served in Europe during World War II.\n\nLt. General Aaron had seven children.\n\nAs a colonel, Aaron served as Commander, 5th Special Forces Group (Airborne) in Vietnam from June 4, 1968, to May 8, 1969. From November 5, 1973, to August 28, 1977, he served as the Assistant Chief of Staff for Intelligence, Headquarters, Department of the Army as a Major General. He later was promoted to Lieutenant General.\n\nGeneral Aaron is a member of the Military Intelligence Hall of Fame.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2093844", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093844", "title": "Radical axis", "text": "Radical axis\n\nThe radical axis (or power line) of two non-concentric circles is a line defined by the two circles, perpendicular to the line connecting the centers of the circles. If the circles cross, their radical axis is the line through their two crossing points, and if they are tangent, it is their line of tangency. For two disjoint circles, the radical axis is the locus of points at which tangents drawn to both circles have equal lengths. The radical axis is always a straight line and always perpendicular to the line connecting the centers of the circles.\n\nFor any point P on the radical axis, there is a unique circle centered on P that intersects both circles at right angles (orthogonally); conversely, the center of any circle that cuts both circles orthogonally must lie on the radical axis. In technical language, each point P on the radical axis has the same power with respect to both circles\n\nwhere \"r\" and \"r\" are the radii of the two circles, \"d\" and \"d\" are distances from P to the centers of the two circles, and \"R\" is the radius of the unique orthogonal circle centered on P.\n\nIn general, two disjoint, non-concentric circles can be aligned with the circles of bipolar coordinates; in that case, the radical axis is simply the \"y\"-axis; every circle on that axis that passes through the two foci intersect the two circles orthogonally. Thus, two radii of such a circle are tangent to both circles, satisfying the definition of the radical axis. The collection of all circles with the same radical axis and with centers on the same line is known as a pencil of coaxal circles.\n\nConsider three circles A, B and C, no two of which are concentric. The radical axis theorem states that the three radical axes (for each pair of circles) intersect in one point called the radical center, or are parallel. In technical language, the three radical axes are \"concurrent\" (share a common point); if they are parallel, they concur at a point of infinity.\n\nA simple proof is as follows. The radical axis of circles A and B is defined as the line along which the tangents to those circles are equal in length \"a\"=\"b\". Similarly, the tangents to circles B and C must be equal in length on their radical axis. By the transitivity of equality, all three tangents are equal \"a\"=\"b\"=\"c\" at the intersection point r of those two radical axes. Hence, the radical axis for circles A and C must pass through the same point r, since \"a\"=\"c\" there. This common intersection point r is the radical center.\n\nThere is a unique circle with its center at the radical center that is orthogonal to all three circles. This follows, also by transitivity, because each radical axis, being the locus of centers of circles that cut each pair of given circles orthogonally, requires all three circles to have equal radius at the intersection of all three axes.\n\nThe radical axis of two circles A and B can be constructed by drawing a line through any two points on the axis. A point on the axis can be found by drawing a circle C that intersects both circles A and B in two points. The two lines passing through each pair of intersection points are the radical axes of A and C and of B and C. These two lines intersect in a point J that is the radical center of all three circles, as described above; therefore, this point also lies on the radical axis of A and B. Repeating this process with another such circle D provides a second point K. The radical axis is the line passing through both J and K.\n\nA special case of this approach, seen in Figure 3, is carried out with antihomologous points from an internal or external center of similarity. Consider two rays emanating from an external homothetic center E. Let the antihomologous pairs of intersection points of these rays with the two given circles be denoted as P and Q, and S and T, respectively. These four points lie on a common circle that intersects the two given circles in two points each. Hence, the two lines joining P and S, and Q and T intersect at the radical center of the three circles, which lies on the radical axis of the given circles. Similarly, the line joining two antihomologous points on separate circles and their tangents form an isosceles triangle, with both tangents being of equal length. Therefore, such tangents meet on the radical axis.\n\nReferring to Figure 4, the radical axis (red) is perpendicular to the blue line segment joining the centers B and V of the two given circles, intersecting that line segment at a point K between the two circles. Therefore, it suffices to find the distance \"x\" or \"x\" from K to B or V, respectively, where \"x\"+\"x\" equals \"D\", the distance between B and V.\n\nConsider a point J on the radical axis, and let its distances to B and V be denoted as \"d\" and \"d\", respectively. Since J must have the same power with respect to both circles, it follows that\n\nwhere \"r\" and \"r\" are the radii of the two given circles. By the Pythagorean theorem, the distances \"d\" and \"d\" can be expressed in terms of \"x\", \"x\" and \"L\", the distance from J to K\n\nBy cancelling \"L\" on both sides of the equation, the equation can be written \n\nDividing both sides by \"D\" = \"x\"+\"x\" yields the equation\n\nAdding this equation to \"x\"+\"x\" = \"D\" yields a formula for \"x\"\n\nSubtracting the same equation yields the corresponding formula for \"x\"\n\nIf the circles are represented in trilinear coordinates in the usual way, then their radical center is conveniently given as a certain determinant. Specifically, let \"X\" = \"x\" : \"y\" : \"z\" denote a variable point in the plane of a triangle \"ABC\" with sidelengths \"a\" = |\"BC\"|, \"b\" = |\"CA\"|, \"c\" = |\"AB\"|, and represent the circles as follows:\n\nThen the radical center is the point\n\nThe radical plane of two nonconcentric spheres in three dimensions is defined similarly: it is the locus of points from which tangents to the two spheres have the same length. The fact that this locus is a plane follows by rotation in the third dimension from the fact that the radical axis is a straight line. \n\nThe same definition can be applied to hyperspheres in Euclidean space of any dimension, giving the radical hyperplane of two nonconcentric hyperspheres.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2093845", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093845", "title": "Johann Wilhelm Hittorf", "text": "Johann Wilhelm Hittorf\n\nJohann Wilhelm Hittorf (27 March 1824 – 28 November 1914) was a German physicist who was born in Bonn and died in Münster, Germany.\n\nHittorf was the first to compute the electricity-carrying capacity of charged atoms and molecules (ions), an important factor in understanding electrochemical reactions. He formulated ion transport numbers and the first method for their measurements.\n\nHe observed tubes with energy rays extending from a negative electrode. These rays produced a fluorescence when they hit the glass walls of the tubes. In 1876 the effect was named \"cathode rays\" by Eugen Goldstein.\n\nHittorf's early investigations were on the allotropes of phosphorus and selenium. Between 1853 and 1859 his most important work was on ion movement caused by electric current. In 1853 Hittorf pointed out that some ions traveled more rapidly than others. This observation led to the concept of transport number, the fraction of the electric current carried by each ionic species. He measured the changes in the concentration of electrolyzed solutions, computed from these the transport numbers (relative carrying capacities) of many ions, and, in 1869, published his laws governing the migration of ions. \n\nHe became professor of physics and chemistry at the University of Münster and director of laboratories there from 1879 until 1889. He also investigated the light spectra of gases and vapours, worked on the passage of electricity through gases, and discovered new properties of cathode rays (electron rays). In 1869 he ascertained that the cathode rays glowed different colours because of different gasses and pressures. He noticed that when there was any object placed between the cathode and the illuminating side of the tube, then the shadow of that object appeared.\n\nHis work led toward development of X-rays and cathode ray tubes. The measurement of current in a vacuum tube was an important step towards the creation of a vacuum tube diode.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2093853", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093853", "title": "AFI's 100 Years...100 Laughs", "text": "AFI's 100 Years...100 Laughs\n\nPart of the AFI 100 Years... series, AFI's 100 Years...100 Laughs is a list of the top 100 funniest movies in American cinema. A wide variety of comedies, totalling 500 films, were nominated for the distinction; genres included slapstick comedy, action comedy, screwball comedy, romantic comedy, satire, black comedy, musical comedy, comedy of manners, and comedy of errors. The list was unveiled by the American Film Institute on June 13, 2000.\n\nCary Grant has the most appearances on the list, with eight films.\n\nAccording to the AFI, the criteria for nomination are:\n"}
{"id": "2093861", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093861", "title": "Stretton, East Staffordshire", "text": "Stretton, East Staffordshire\n\nStretton is a large village and civil parish in Staffordshire, England. It is situated on the northern outskirts of Burton upon Trent and is effectively a suburb of that town. The name is Old English and means \"Street Town\" and comes it being on the Roman road called Ryknild Street. The population of the parish at the 2001 census was 8,355, increasing to 8,611 at the 2011 Census.\n\nThe River Dove which forms the border between Staffordshire and Derbyshire flows past the eastern side of the village. The Trent and Mersey Canal also passes through.\n\nStretton was served by a railway station (Stretton and Claymills railway station) which was opened by the North Staffordshire Railway on 1 January 1901. There was also a Stretton Junction. The station and the North Staffordshire Railway line have now gone. Today the principal transport link is the A38 road which passes through.\n\nIt is home to the sports and social clubs of Stretton Eagles and Stretton Wanderers. It also shares a nature trail with the neighbouring village of Rolleston on Dove.\n\nSchools include Fountains High School, Fountains Primary School and William Shrewsbury Primary School.\n\nThe parish church of Stretton is St Mary's, part of the Diocese of Lichfield. The Dovecliff Hall Hotel is a Grade II listed country house to the north of the village.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2093863", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093863", "title": "Peter Lemer", "text": "Peter Lemer\n\nPeter Naphtali Lemer (born 14 June 1942) is an English jazz musician. He worked with the Pete Lemer Quintet, Spontaneous Music Ensemble, Annette Peacock, Harry Beckett, Gilgamesh, Baker Gurvitz Army, Seventh Wave, Harry Beckett's Joy Unlimited, Pierre Moerlen's Gong, Mike Oldfield Group, In Cahoots, Miller/Baker/Lemer. He currently works with In Cahoots, Peter Lemer Trio/Quartet, Barbara Thompson's Paraphernalia, and the Peter Lemer-Billy Thompson Quartet and Duo.\n\nPeter Lemer was born in London, England. He studied piano and composition at the Royal Academy of Music with Sven Weber and John Gardner, privately with Thomas Rajna, and then at workshops in London run by Jack Goldzweig (who had himself co-coached in New York with Mal Waldron and John Mehegan). Lemer then went to New York to study double bass with David Walter, attended workshops run by Bill Dixon, and studied piano with Jaki Byard and Paul Bley.\n\nIn 1965, he formed a trio with John Stevens and Jeff Clyne, which opened the Little Theatre Club. In 1966, he formed the Peter Lemer Quintet, with Jon Hiseman on drums, George Khan on tenor sax, John Surman on baritone sax and Tony Reeves on bass. This band successfully played a season at Ronnie Scott's and helped to pave the way for the British free jazz movement of the late 1960s and early 1970s, along with the Mike Taylor trio. It cut one LP, \"Local Colour\" which was engineered by Eddie Kramer.\n\nIn 1969, Lemer worked with the Spontaneous Music Ensemble, an experimental jazz group.\n\nIn that year, he also joined Barbara Thompson. \nThe relationship developed into Barbara forming Paraphernalia with husband Jon Hiseman.\nParaphernalia became the most frequently performing jazz-oriented group in Europe, and Peter was keyboardist for most of the years right up to the present, including 10 albums recorded live or at Barbara and Jon's Temple Music Studios.\n\nIn 1974, Lemer joined Gilgamesh and played several gigs and some BBC sessions. He subsequently became an in-demand session player.\n\nIn 1974, he joined Ken Elliot's Seventh Wave, a pioneer synthesiser-based rock band, appearing on their second album, \"Psi-Fi\".\n\nIn 1975, he joined Ginger Baker, Mr Snips, and The Gurvitz brothers in the Baker Gurvitz Army - recording Elysian Encounter .\n\nIn 1976, he joined Jan Dukes de Grey briefly to record their final album, \"Strange Terrain\". Although the album was recorded in 1976, it was only released in 2010.\n\nIn 1979, Lemer joined Mike Oldfield's fifty piece touring band as one of two keyboard players. This led to him guesting on Moerlen's album \"Time is the Key\".\n\nLemer has done much recent work with the band In Cahoots. With them, he played on the album \"Cutting Both Ways\" (1987) and toured Europe. He joined the band Paraphernalia in 1987 and played on the albums \"A Cry from the Heart\" (1987), \"Everlasting Flame\" (1993) and \"Shifting Sands\".\n\nLemer again worked with In Cahoots. He played on the album \"Digging In\" (1991) and rejoined the band permanently in 1995. After two In Cahoots tours, Lemer devoted 1999 to touring with Paraphernalia in support of the album they had recently released. Paraphernalia is not currently touring while Barbara Thompson is fighting Parkinson's Disease.\n\nLemer's most recent albums include \"Players of Games\" recorded with Billy Thompson, \"Looking for Soup\", \"All That\" with In Cahoots, and \"Never Say Goodbye\" recorded with Paraphernalia.\n\nHe is now coaching piano, improvisation, music technology. He also plays with the Spanish Harlow Orchestra.\n\nHe is also actively involved in lobbying to end global hunger and participates as Group Leader with Results UK, the premier UK citizen advocacy group to eradicate poverty globally.\n\n"}
{"id": "2093867", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093867", "title": "Damien Richardson (footballer)", "text": "Damien Richardson (footballer)\n\nDamien John Richardson (born 2 August 1947 in Dublin) is an Irish football manager and former player. His most recent job was as manager of Drogheda United. Richardson formerly managed Gillingham in England and Cobh Ramblers, Shelbourne and Shamrock Rovers in Ireland. He is also known for his media work, including \"Monday Night Soccer\".\n\nAs a player Richardson's career was divided between Shamrock Rovers and Gillingham. He made his Rovers debut in a 2–1 friendly win over Sunderland at Roker Park on 10 August 1963. His competitive debut came eight days later as Rovers beat Shelbourne 3–0 at Tolka Park in a Dublin City Cup clash. While at Rovers he twice won the FAI Cup in 1968 and 1969 (scoring in the final replay) as well as getting an Inter League cap and represented the club 5 times in the UEFA Cup Winners Cup. He received the first of three international caps for the Irish national team while at Shamrock Rovers, making his debut against Austria in Linz in October 1971. He scored in his final appearance for Rovers on 22 October 1972 at Milltown.\n\nHe moved to the English Fourth Division side Gillingham at the age of 25. He played for the Priestfield Stadium side for the next nine years before being released in 1981. During his time there he scored 100 goals.\n\nRichardson's managerial career began in 1989 where he managed Gillingham, having previously served as the club's youth team manager. A rather lacklustre career there ended in 1992, and he returned to Ireland in 1993 to manage Cork City. He proved an instant success bringing the club within striking distance of retaining the league title. However, after 18 months he left the club after a dispute with then chairman Pat O'Donovan.\n\nFollowing Cork City, he moved on another Cork side Cobh Ramblers before taking up the management position at Shelbourne. His time at Shelbourne saw two Cup successes (1995–96 and 1996–97), one League of Ireland Cup (1995–96) and a runner up position in the League (1997–98) in three seasons. His failure to win the league ultimately cost him his job.\n\nHe moved to his old club Shamrock Rovers, where his tenure for three seasons failed to result in a trophy. Ultimately, Richardson and club chairman Joe Colwell disagreed on the direction of the club, and parted ways in April 2002. Colwell wanted to focus on building a new stadium for the club, while Richardson wanted to focus on a full-time panel of players.\n\nIn 2005 Richardson returned to League of Ireland management when Cork City's manager Pat Dolan was dramatically sacked before the start of pre-season friendlies. Cork City chairman Brian Lennox signed the 57-year-old Richardson to a two-year contract at Turners Cross 15 days before the first competitive match of the season. Richardson commented that the Cork City job was the only one that could have brought him back to League of Ireland management. Despite being hospitalised in September in his first season in charge Cork City were crowned League of Ireland champions for the second time in the club's history. Cork City also reached the final of the FAI Cup but were defeated by Drogheda United. The 2006 and 2007 seasons saw 4th-place positions for his club in both years. In 2007 Richardson led Cork City to FAI Cup victory, but left shortly afterwards following some controversy, and a financial settlement agreement.\n\nIn 2010 Damien was selected by the FAI to manage a League of Ireland XI to play a full-strength Manchester United side in the opening match of the Aviva Stadium in Dublin. Again in 2011 he was selected by the FAI to manage a League of Ireland XI to play in the Dublin Super Cup at the Aviva Stadium.\n\nRichardson was named as the manager of Drogheda United on 26 July 2014 for the remainder of their league campaign.\n\nIn 2002, Richardson left football management to become a TV soccer pundit with TV3 in Ireland, before returning to the game in 2005. He is now a regular pundit on \"Monday Night Soccer\" on Raidió Teilifís Éireann, and is also a regular contributor to RTÉ Radio's coverage of Republic of Ireland international matches. He contributed to RTÉ Sport's coverage of the 2010 FIFA World Cup.\n\nRichardson writes a regular blog for the RTÉ / \"MNS\" website, and continues to write a weekly column for a Cork newspaper since his time as manager of Cork City.\n\nRichardson has also supported Red FM's national award-winning \"Break the Cycle\" anti-speeding campaign. In addition to his media work, he occasionally teaches football team management seminars. Richardson also once played the bodhran on an album (A Kentish Garland) by Tundra, a folk music group from Kent.\n\n\n\n\n\nRichardson's father George also played and managed in the League of Ireland. He played for Bray Unknowns F.C. and Brideville F.C. and managed St Patrick's Athletic in the 1970s.\n\n"}
{"id": "2093874", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093874", "title": "Curtiss XP-46", "text": "Curtiss XP-46\n\nThe Curtiss XP-46 was a 1940s United States prototype fighter aircraft. It was a development of the Curtiss-Wright Corporation in an effort to introduce the best features found in European fighter aircraft in 1939 into a fighter aircraft which could succeed the Curtiss P-40, then in production.\n\nA United States Army Air Corps (USAAC) specification based upon a Curtiss proposal was the basis for an order placed in September 1939 for the XP-46. The requirements called for a single-engine, low-wing aircraft, slightly smaller than the P-40, and with a wide-track, inward-retracting landing gear. The selected powerplant was a 1,150 hp (858 kW) Allison V-1710-39 V-12 engine. The planned armament included two .50 in (12.7 mm) synchronized machine guns in the forward fuselage and provisions for eight .30 in (7.62 mm) wing-mounted guns. The USAAC later added requirements for self-sealing fuel tanks and 65 lb (29 kg) of armor, the weights of which were to adversely affect performance.\n\nIn 1940 the British Purchasing Commission placed an order for the P-46 as a replacement for the P-40, the name 'Kittyhawk' being allocated by the Air Ministry in anticipation of receiving the aircraft.\n\nHowever, the USAAC asked Curtiss in July 1940 – while the XP-46 prototypes were under construction – to prioritize an upgraded P-40, featuring the engine intended for the XP-46. This would also avoid disruptions to the production line caused by any switch to a new airframe. The British order for the P-46 was later cancelled, and the 'Kittyhawk' name subsequently applied to the upgraded P-40.\n\nTwo prototypes, designated XP-46A, were nevertheless delivered to the USAAC; the first flight occurred on 15 February 1941. The type's performance during trials was found to be inferior to the then-contemporary P-40D. As the P-46 offered no significant improvement on the P-40, the program was cancelled. \n\nA myth claims that work on the XP-46 was the basis of the North American NA-73X – the prototype P-51 Mustang. While North American Aviation (NAA) purchased technical aerodynamic data on the P-40 and XP-46 from Curtiss for $56,000, and there are certain design similarities in the radiator/oil-cooler configuration of the two types, North American had already made significant progress on its design.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2093877", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093877", "title": "Trun", "text": "Trun\n\nTrun may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2093879", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093879", "title": "AFI's 100 Years...100 Thrills", "text": "AFI's 100 Years...100 Thrills\n\nPart of the AFI 100 Years… series, AFI's 100 Years…100 Thrills is a list of the top 100 most exciting movies in American cinema. The list was unveiled by the American Film Institute on June 12, 2001, during a CBS special hosted by Harrison Ford.\n\nNine Alfred Hitchcock films made the list, making him the most represented director.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2093890", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093890", "title": "William E. Potts", "text": "William E. Potts\n\nWilliam E. Potts (November 9, 1921 – August 16, 2005) was an American military general.\n\nWilliam Edward Potts was born on 9 November 1921 in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma. He attended the Oklahoma Military Academy (now named Rogers State University) and was the highest ranking graduate in 1941. In 1942 he was commissioned as a cavalry 2nd lieutenant in the U.S. Army. Lieutenant Potts entered active duty at Fort Riley, Kansas, and completed the Officers' Basic course at the United States (U.S.) Army Cavalry School.\n\nOn 2 February 1943 Lieutenant Potts was assigned to the 2nd Armored Cavalry (Mechanized) Regiment and sent to Europe. He served as a platoon leader and then commanding officer of Troop B. On 13 September 1944 Potts was transferred to the 42nd Mechanized Cavalry Reconnaissance Squadron stationed near Coincourt, France. He was wounded by a mine while leading a raid to take the town and spent over a year in the hospital and physical therapy.\n\nOn 10 October 1945 Major Potts was assigned to the Staff and Faculty, U.S. Army Armored School, Fort Knox, Kentucky. On 10 February 1946 Captain Potts was sent to attend the Command and General Staff School (College) at Fort Leavenworth, Kansas. After completing his studies he was sent to Korea as the Assistant G-3 (Operations) for Headquarters, XXIV Corps and U.S. Army Forces, Korea.\n\nIn January 1949 he was again assigned to the Staff and Faculty of the Armor School, Fort Knox, Kentucky and then attended the Officers' Advanced Course. After graduating in June 1950, he was assigned to the Army General Staff, Office of the Assistant Chief of Staff, G-2 in Washington, D.C. In June 1953 he was sent back to Korea and the Commanding Officer, 72nd Tank Battalion, 2nd Infantry Division. In April 1954 Potts was reassigned as a G-3 advisor to the First Republic of Korea (ROK) Army.\n\nReturning to the United States in November 1954, Potts was assigned as Deputy Director, Combat Developments, Armored School and Center, Fort Knox, Kentucky. He remained in this position until attending the Armed Forces Staff College in Norfolk, Virginia, July 1957. After graduating in January 1958, he was assigned to command the 3rd Battalion, 14th Armored Cavalry Regiment and subsequently the 14th Armored Cavalry Regiment, both in Germany. In September 1959 he was reassigned to Assistant Chief of Staff, G-3, VII Corps, in Germany.\n\nIn September 1960, Colonel Potts returned to the U.S. to attend the National War College, Fort McNair, Washington, D.C. After graduating in June 1961 he was a moderator for the National Defense Strategy Seminar in July and then assigned to the Office, Assistant Chief of Staff for Intelligence, Department of the Army. In this position Potts was Chairman of a Department of the Army Committee on Counterinsurgency, served on the Rosson Board for Special Warfare, and traveled extensively through Laos and Vietnam.\n\nPotts was assigned to the Office of the Secretary of Defense for Duty with the United States Representative to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) Military Committee and Standing Group in July 1962. In May 1965, Potts was selected as the first Assistant Chief of Staff, G-3, for the United States Army, Vietnam. In February 1966 Potts was assigned as Deputy Chief of Staff for Personnel and Administration and as Special Assistant to the Commanding General, United States Army, Vietnam.\n\nColonel Potts returned to the United States in August 1966 and assigned as the Chief of Staff, United States Army Security Agency and after promotion to Brigadier General, assumed the duties of Assistant Chief of Staff, G-2, for the Commander in Chief, United States Army Pacific in September 1967. In February 1969 General Potts was transferred to Vietnam as the Assistant Chief of Staff, J-2, United States Military Assistance Command, Vietnam (USMACV).\n\nIn September 1972 General Potts returned to the United States as the Assistant Chief of Staff for Intelligence, Department of the Army and on 2 August 1973 was assigned as the Deputy Director, Defense Intelligence Agency, Department of Defense. Lieutenant General Potts retired from active duty on 31 August 1974.\n\nFollowing his retirement, Potts worked for General Research Corporation as a project manager where he contributed to the Indochina Refugee Authored Monograph Program regarding the Vietnam War. Other projects included a comparative analysis of US/USSR capabilities to project power as well as a study of Concealment and Deception for Amphibious Operations during the Midrange (1985–1990). Potts later worked for Electrospace Systems Incorporated where he continued to work on projects related to military intelligence and counterintelligence. He died on 16 August 2005 and is buried in Arlington National Cemetery.\n\nPotts received a wartime promotion from 2nd lieutenant to lieutenant colonel during World War II. He was named 1st lieutenant 9 Nov 1945, captain, 1 Jul 1948, major, 6 Jul 1954, lieutenant colonel, 27 Aug 1962, colonel, 7 Jul 1967, brigadier general 26 Oct 1967, major general 29 Dec 1970, lieutenant general, Aug 1973.\n\nPotts' awards included: Distinguished Service Medal with Oak Leaf Cluster, Silver Star, Legion of Merit with two Oak Leaf Clusters, Bronze Star with four Oak Leaf Clusters and V Clasp, Air Medal with four Oak Leaf clusters, Joint Service Commendation Medal with one Oak Leaf Cluster, Army Commendation Medal with one Oak Leaf Cluster, Purple Heart, French National Order of the Legion of Merit (Rank of Officer), French Croix-de-Guerre with Silver Star, Republic of China Special Cravat of the Order of Cloud and Banner, Thailand Knight Grand Cross of the Most Exalted Order of the White Elephant, Philippine Outstanding Achievement Medal, National Order of Vietnam Fourth Class, Vietnam Armed Forces Honor Medal First Class, Vietnam National Police Honor Medal First Class, Korean Order of Military Merit (Chungmu), Korean Chungmu Distinguished Service Medal with Gold Star, Vietnam Civil Actions Medal First Class, Vietnam Military Social Service Honor Medal First Class, Vietnam Navy Service Medal Honor Class, Republic of Korea Presidential Citations, American Campaign Medal, European-African-Middle East Campaign Medal, World War II Victory Medal, Army of Occupation Medal, National Defense Service Medal with Oak Leaf Cluster, Korean Service Medal, Armed Forces Expeditionary Medal (Laos), Vietnam Service Medal, United Nations Service Medal, Vietnam Campaign Medal, and Vietnam Gallantry Cross Citation with Palm.\n\n"}
{"id": "2093902", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093902", "title": "AFI's 100 Years...100 Passions", "text": "AFI's 100 Years...100 Passions\n\nPart of the AFI 100 Years… series, AFI's 100 Years…100 Passions is a list of the top 100 greatest love stories in American cinema. The list was unveiled by the American Film Institute on June 11, 2002, in a CBS television special hosted by American film and TV actress Candice Bergen.\n\nCary Grant and Katharine Hepburn are tied for the most films in the list, with six each. They co-starred in two of them - \"Bringing Up Baby\" and \"The Philadelphia Story\". Audrey Hepburn and Humphrey Bogart each have five movies on the list. They co-starred in \"Sabrina\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2093903", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093903", "title": "Cannonball Run 2001", "text": "Cannonball Run 2001\n\nCannonball Run 2001 is a reality television series broadcast on the USA Network in 2001. It was inspired by the Cannonball Baker Sea-To-Shining-Sea Memorial Trophy Dash, an outlaw road race of the 1970s which was the source for the famous \"Cannonball Run\" movies. The show featured a series of five location-specific challenges along a New York-to-Los Angeles course, as in the original race.\n\nDevelopment of the series started without the participation of Brock Yates, organizer of the original Cannonball and holder of the trademark; indeed, the production company paid Yates for the use of the name just before the show debuted. Yates was not pleased with the series, as he felt it was fake and staged.\n\nIn 2005, Yates teamed up with a Cannonball driver and film producer J Sanchez to produce a more authentic reality series called \"Cannonball: This Is Reality\" to run alongside the actual One Lap of America race. The project was shelved in 2006 due to lack of interest from networks.\n\n"}
{"id": "2093907", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093907", "title": "RPG-2", "text": "RPG-2\n\nThe RPG-2 (Russian: РПГ-2, Ручной противотанковый гранатомёт, \"Ruchnoy Protivotankovy Granatomyot\"; English: \"hand-held antitank grenade launcher\") is a man-portable, shoulder-fired anti-tank weapon that was designed in the Soviet Union. It was the first successful anti-tank weapon of its type, being a successor to the earlier and unsuccessful RPG-1. The RPG-2 offered better range and armor penetration, making it useful against late and post-World War II tanks, in contrast to the RPG-1 that had only marginal utility. The basic design and layout was further upgraded to produce the ubiquitous RPG-7.\n\nStudying German and US anti-tank rocket designs, in 1944 the Soviets began development of the RPG-1 with the goal of combining the best features of the German \"Panzerfaust\" with the US Bazooka. Propelled by a 30 mm cartridge, the HEAT round could penetrate about of homogeneous armour.\n\nEarly testing displayed a number of minor problems, but, by the time these were being solved, the 150 mm of penetration was no longer considered effective against modern tanks, even late-war designs like the Panther. The warhead was already straining the capabilities of the cartridge and its range was already considered too low. Modifications to improve this began, but in 1947 the RPG-2 program started as a parallel project. Development of the RPG-2 was carried out by the GSKB-30 design bureau, originally part of the Commissariat for Munitions, but in the post-war period handed to the Ministry of Agriculture to help design farm equipment.\n\nThe main difference in performance between the two were due to size. The RPG-2 used a custom designed cartridge to provide much greater power, and the warhead enlarged to . This improved penetration to , which allowed it to penetrate the frontal armor of all but very heaviest tanks, and the side and rear armor of any tank. The larger cartridge gave the PG-2 warhead slightly better practical range as well, about against stationary targets.\n\nThe design of the PG-2 differed considerably from that of the PG-1 of the RPG-1. The rear section of the PG-1 consisted of a central tube holding the propelling charge, and a second tube around this carrying the fins. When the round was inserted into the launcher, the second tube was outside the launcher tube, requiring the front of the launcher to be free of any fittings. The PG-2 replaced the fins with small metal leaves attached to the inner tube, and eliminated the outer tube found on the PG-1. This allowed the entire propellant section to be inserted into the launcher, which in turn allowed the sights and trigger assembly to be mounted right at the front of the launcher. This slightly reduced the length compared to the RPG-1, made the entire assembly more robust, and allowed the use of conventional fore-and-aft sights.\n\nThe new design was such an improvement on the earlier design that development of the RPG-1 ended in 1948. The first production versions of the RPG-2 entered service with the Soviet Army's infantry squads in 1954. Although the RPG-2 could be operated by one man, standard military practice called for a two-man crew: a grenadier carrying the launcher and a purpose-built backpack containing three grenades and an assistant armed with a rifle and carrying another three-grenade backpack.\n\nIn 1957, the launcher was adapted to be able to mount the NSP-2 infrared (IR) night-sight system, which consisted of an IR spotlight and a detector, together weighing (with batteries) . The NSP-2 was usable to under good conditions. When fitted with the NSP-2, the launcher became known as the RPG-2N.\n\nWidely distributed to allies of the Soviet Union, it was also produced under license by China, North Vietnam and North Korea. Used against the U.S. military in the Vietnam War, its Vietnamese variants were called the B40 (\"Ba Do Ka\" (Bazooka) 40mm) and B50. B50 was B40 using Chinese Type 50 HEAT warhead (Chinese version of PG-2).\n\nThe RPG-2 anti tank grenade launcher is a simple 40 millimeter steel tube into which the PG-2 grenade is fitted. The tailboom of the grenade inserts into the launcher. The diameter of the PG-2 warhead is 80mm. The center section of the tube has a thin wooden covering to protect the user from the heat generated by the grenade launch. The wooden covering also makes using the weapon in extreme cold conditions easier.\n\nThe total length of the weapon with a grenade fitted was 120 centimeters (47 inches) and it weighed 4.48 kilograms (9.8 pounds). Only a simple iron sight was provided for aiming.\n\nOnly one type of grenade, the PG-2 HEAT (High Explosive Anti-Tank), was used in the RPG-2. The propellant, consisting of granulated powder was in a rolled cardboard case treated with wax that had to be attached to the grenade before loading. Once attached to the propellant charge, the grenade was inserted into the smooth-bore launcher from the front. A tab on the body of the grenade indexes in a notch cut in the tube so that the primer in the propelling charge aligns with the firing pin and hammer mechanism.\n\nTo fire the RPG-2, the grenadier cocked an external hammer with his thumb, aimed, and pulled the trigger to fire. Upon launch, six stabilizer fins unfolded from the grenade.\n\nThe weapon was accurate, depending on the soldier's experience, against stationary targets up to 150 meters and against moving targets at ranges of less than 100 meters. It had a muzzle velocity of 84 meters per second and could penetrate armor up to 180 millimeters (7.17 inches) thick.\n\n\n\nFormer users\n\n"}
{"id": "2093911", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093911", "title": "Fortinet", "text": "Fortinet\n\nFortinet is an American multinational corporation headquartered in Sunnyvale, California. It develops and markets cybersecurity products and services, such as firewalls, anti-virus, intrusion prevention and endpoint security.\n\nFortinet was founded in 2000 by brothers Ken Xie and Michael Xie. The company's first product was FortiGate, a firewall. The company later added wireless access points, sandboxing, and messaging security. \n\nBy 2004, Fortinet had raised over $90 million in funding. The company went public in November 2009, raising $156 million through an initial public offering. \n\nIn 2016, Fortinet released its Security Fabric architecture that included integration and automation with other network security devices and third-party vendors. The product was later adapted to include multi-cloud, IoT, and SD-WAN capabilities.\n\nPrior to Fortinet, Ken Xie founded and served as an executive for NetScreen, a company that was acquired by Juniper Networks in 2004. Michael Xie served as an executive for ServeGate. In 2000, they co-founded Appligation Inc. The company was renamed to ApSecure in December 2000 and later renamed again to Fortinet, based on the phrase \"Fortified Networks.\" \n\nFortinet introduced its first product, FortiGate, in 2002, followed by anti-spam and anti-virus software. The company raised $13 million in private funding from 2000 to early 2003. An additional $30 million in financing was raised in August 2003, followed by $50 million in March 2004. Fortinet's first channel program was established in October 2003. The company began distributing its products in Canada in December 2003, and in the UK in February 2004. By 2004 Fortinet had offices in Asia, Europe and North America.\n\nIn April 2005, a German court issued a preliminary injunction against Fortinet's UK subsidiary in relation to source code for its GPL-licensed elements. The dispute ended a month later after Fortinet agreed to make the source code available upon request.\n\nFortinet became profitable in the third quarter of 2008. Later that year, the company acquired the intellectual property of IPLocks, a database security and auditing company. In August 2009, Fortinet acquired the intellectual property and other assets of Woven Systems, an ethernet switching company.\n\nAccording to market research firm IDC, by November 2009 Fortinet held over 15 percent of the unified threat management market. Also in 2009, \"CRN Magazine\"s survey-based annual report card placed Fortinet first in network security hardware, up from seventh in 2007.\n\nIn November 2009, Fortinet had an initial public offering, wherein the company planned to raise $52.4 million through the sale of 5.8 million shares. Over 6 million shares were also sold by stockholders. Just before the first day of trading, Fortinet increased the share price from $9 to $12.50 and the price increased in the market to $16.62. By the end of the first day of trading the company had raised $156 million in financing.\n\nBy 2010, Fortinet had $324 million in annual revenues and held the largest share of the unified threat management market according to IDC. \n\nFortinet made four notable acquisitions from 2012 to 2016. The company acquired app-hosting service XDN (formerly known as 3Crowd) in December 2012, Coyote Point in 2013, and Wi-Fi hardware company Meru Networks in 2015. In June 2016, Fortinet acquired IT security, monitoring and analytics software vendor, AccelOps.\n\nIn July 2014, Fortinet announced a technical certification program called Network Security Expert (NSE). In March 2016, Fortinet launched a Network Security Academy to help fill open cyber security jobs in the U.S. Fortinet donated equipment and provided information to universities to help train students for jobs in the field. Also in 2016, Fortinet launched a program called FortiVet to recruit military veterans for cybersecurity jobs.\n\nIn January 2017, it was announced that Philip Quade, a former member of the NSA, would become the company's chief information officer. At the end of 2017, Fortinet reported $416.7 million in revenue, a 15 percent increase from the previous year. As of December 31, 2017 Fortinet had 467 U.S. foreign-issued patents and 291 pending. In June 2018, Fortinet acquired Bradford Networks, a maker of access control and IoT security solutions. In October 2018, Fortinet acquired ZoneFox, a threat analytics company. In January 2019, it was announced that Fortinet and founder Ken Xie would participate in the annual World Economic Forum held in Davos, Switzerland.\n\nIn September 2019, Fortinet settled a whistleblower lawsuit regarding what the company has described as an \"isolated incident\" of sales of mislabeled equipment to U.S. government end users.\n\nIn late 2019, Fortinet acquired enSilo and CyberSponse.\n\nFortinet released its first product, FortiGate, a firewall, in 2002, followed by anti-spam and anti-virus software. FortiGate was updated to use application-specific integrated circuit (ASIC) architecture. The company has used ASIC in several of its products, including to support its SD-WAN features. Fortinet later merged its network security offerings, including firewalls, anti-spam and anti-virus software, into one product. In April 2016, Fortinet began building its Security Fabric architecture so multiple network security products could communicate as one platform. Later that year, the company added Security Information and Event Management (SIEM) products. In September 2016, the company announced it would integrate the SIEM products with the security systems of other vendors.\n\nIn 2017, Fortinet announced the addition of switches, access points, analyzers, sandboxes and cloud capabilities to the Security Fabric, in addition to endpoints and firewalls. Later in 2017, Fortinet created a standalone subsidiary, Fortinet Federal, to develop cybersecurity products for government agencies. Fortinet has received security effectiveness certifications through NSS Labs. Gartner, a research and consulting firm, has ranked Fortinet within the top three companies in its Magic Quadrant for enterprise network firewalls, which measures market trends and direction.\n\nIn July 2018, the company launched FortiGate SD-WAN, its proprietary SD-WAN service. FortiGate SD-WAN was included within Gartner's Magic Quadrant for WAN Edge Infrastructure later that year. Later in 2018, Fortinet released FortiGuard (AI) to better detect new and unknown threats, and also announced the 6.0 version of its FortiOS security operating system with enhanced centralized management and expanded cloud capabilities.\n\nIn May 2004, Trend Micro, a competing cyber security and defense company, filed a legal complaint against Fortinet. Though the International Trade Commission initially ruled against Fortinet, the Trend Micro patents at the center of the dispute were later declared as invalid in 2010. In 2005, an OpenNet study suggested that Myanmar, which was under American sanctions, had begun using Fortinet's FortiGuard system for internet censorship. Fortinet stated that their products are sold by third party resellers, and that they acknowledged US embargoes.\n\nIn February 2020, Fortinet released FortiAI, a threat-detection program that uses artificial intelligence.\n\nIn 2005, Fortinet created the FortiGuard Labs internal security research team. \n\nIn 2008, Fortinet researchers sent a report to Facebook highlighting a widget from Zango that appeared to be tricking users into downloading spyware. By 2014, Fortinet had four research and development centers in Asia, as well as others in the US, Canada and France. \n\nIn March 2014, Fortinet founded the Cyber Threat Alliance (CTA) with Palo Alto Networks in order to share security threat data across vendors. It was later joined by McAfee and Symantec. In 2015, the CTA published a white paper on the CryptoWall ransomware, which detailed how attackers obtained $325 million through ransoms paid by victims to regain access to their files.\n\nIn April 2015, Fortinet provided threat intelligence to Interpol in order to help apprehend the ringleader of several online scams based in Nigeria. The scams, which resulted in compromise of business emails and CEO fraud, had cost one business over $15 million. The following year, in March 2016, Fortinet and technology company, Cisco, joined NATO in a data-sharing agreement to improve their information security capabilities.\n\nIn January 2017, Fortinet worked with Interpol to conduct an investigation into web security in several southeast Asian countries. The investigation identified compromised websites, including government-operated web servers. Later that month, Fortinet researchers discovered a spyware that scammed victims by impersonating the IRS. Also in 2017, researchers helped identify malware, called Rootnik, and ransomware, called MacRansom, that targeted Android and MacOS systems respectively. In 2018, Fortinet entered into an information-sharing agreement with Interpol.\n\n"}
{"id": "2093922", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093922", "title": "Gooey", "text": "Gooey\n\nGooey was an Internet chat application launched in 1999. The system allowed people who were browsing the same web site at the same time to communicate with each other in a separate window. Gooey was closed and disappeared in 2000. It was developed by Israeli software company Hypernix, which in 2000 was acquired by SIGA.\n"}
{"id": "2093923", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093923", "title": "Oleg Malyshkin", "text": "Oleg Malyshkin\n\nOleg Alexandrovich Malyshkin () is a Russian politician and member of the Liberal Democratic Party of Russia. He was a member of the State Duma of Russia between 2003 and 2007, and stood for President in the 2004 Russian presidential election.\n\nBorn on April 7, 1951 in the Rostov Oblast of the Russian SFSR, Malyshkin graduated from the Polytechnic Institute in Novocherkassk as a mining engineer. He was a professional boxer (12 wins by knock-outs) and soccer player. As soccer defender he competed for Torpedo Taganrog, Uralan and some clubs from Rostov-on-Don mainly in Soviet Second League.\n\nHe entered politics in 1991 as a member of Vladimir Zhirinovsky's Liberal Democratic Party of Russia and working in the party offices in Moscow. In 1997, he won election as head of the Tatsinsky District in Rostov Oblast and served until 2001. He governed the district in an authoritarian, statist manner, introducing strict price controls for food and visiting the grain elevator accompanied by armed guards in order to resolve a dispute between the enterprise and his administration.\n\nIn 2001, Malyshkin returned to Moscow and resumed his post in the LDPR's head office, becoming Chief of Staff to Vladimir Zhirinovsky's security and being nominated as Vice Chairman of the party.\n\nIn 2003, he was elected to the State Duma. He quickly established himself as just as fiery and hot-headed as his party's leader, assaulting former economic adviser to prime minister Mikhail Delyagin and Yabloko deputy chairman Sergey Mitrokhin on November 21, 2003. He serves on the State Duma's Committee on Defense.\n\nMalyshkin was a surprise choice for the LDPR's candidate in the Russian presidential election of 2004, as he was barely known outside Tatsinsky District and LDPR circles. However, it was widely assumed that Zhirinovsky chose not to run in this election as he realised it would be impossible for him to beat Vladimir Putin. Malyshkin made much of his credentials as a worker in the election, but found it difficult to be taken seriously as a candidate, particularly after his mother said she would not be voting for her son. Malyshkin also said throughout the campaign that, should he win, he would automatically step aside for LDPR leader Vladimir Zhirinovsky. Malyshkin won 1,393,940 votes, for 2% of the poll, coming fifth out of six candidates.\n\nZhirinovsky had originally plan to run himself, having announced his intent to run in December 2003. However, he ultimately did not run.\n\nAs a presidential candidate Malyshkin acquired a reputation in which he was seen as being unintelligent.\n\nIn April 2007 Vladimir Zhirinovsky announced that Malyshkin had been expelled from the LDPR's Duma faction for refusing to participate in regional elections in Russia the previous month. He did not run for re-election in December 2007.\n"}
{"id": "2093925", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093925", "title": "Nestani", "text": "Nestani\n\nNestani (, before 1927: Τσιπιανά \"Tsipiana\") is a village and a community in the municipal unit Mantineia, Arcadia, Greece.\n\nIt is situated at the foot of the mountain Artemisio, at about 700 m elevation. It was the seat of the former municipality Mantineia. The community Nestani also contains the village of Milea. Nestani is 11 km east of Kapsas, 13 km southwest of Lyrkeia (Argolis) and 14 km northeast of Tripoli. The Moreas Motorway (Corinth–Tripoli-Kalamata/Sparta) passes west of the village.\n\nThe monastery of Panagia Gorgoepikοos is situated on a hill immediately southeast of the village. The Holy Mother of God is venerated there, with a celebration on 15 August. The present building dates from 1740. It is now a nunnery.\n\nIn Arcadia agriculture, raising and herding livestock, some trading are the dominant occupations. The same is true for most residents of the village. But securing livelihood in accordance with what is locally facilitated is on the decline, as migration, particularly significant since 1945 and mainly to the Americas, promises a better life. This is one reason, why the population of Nestani is diminishing. Urbanization is another, more recent phenomenon, since better roads, improved mobility and job opportunities in Arcadias capital Tripoli and in the environment are better.\n\nIn many Greek villages styled fountains are dedicated, vivid symbols of rural identification and tradition. The spring water fountain (φιλίππεοις Κρήνη) is a well kept, rebuilt remnant of the fountain King Philip II of Macedon (382-336 BC) built, when he camped next to the ancient town Nestane.\n\nHowever, the plain Argon Pedion below the village with its peculiar properties, will be of relevance for the villages existence and further development for the years to come.\n\nNestani was named after the ancient settlement Nestane, that was situated at the same place. Ancient Nestane was a village in the territory of the town Mantineia. The ruined acropolis of Nestani and the remnant of Philipps fountain can still be found in the village.\n\nThe village of Tsipiana, which grew near the ancient ruins of Nestane, was renamed Nestani in 1927.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2093928", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093928", "title": "Snow Dogs", "text": "Snow Dogs\n\nSnow Dogs is a 2002 American adventure comedy film directed by Brian Levant and starring Cuba Gooding Jr. and James Coburn (in one of his final roles). The film was released in the United States on January 18, 2002 by Walt Disney Pictures. The film is inspired by the book \"\" by Gary Paulsen.\n\nDr. Theodore \"Ted\" Brooks is a dentist in Miami, Florida. Every city bus carries an advertisement for his dental practice \"Hot Smile\" with his picture. One day, Ted receives a letter from Alaska, naming him as the only heir of Lucy Watkins, a resident of the backwoods village of Tolketna. Ted's mother Amelia reveals that he is adopted; Lucy was his biological mother.\n\nTed travels to Tolketna to claim his inheritance from Lucy: seven Siberian Huskies named Diesel, Mack, Sniff, Yodel, Scooper, Duchess and Demon, and a Border Collie named Nana. In Tolketna, he discovers his roots. Totally out of his element, Ted is confounded by blizzards, thin ice, foxes, skunks, grizzly bears, an intimidating, crusty old mountain man named James \"Thunder Jack\" Johnson, and the aggressive, defiant lead dog, Demon. All of this happens with the buzzing excitement of the Arctic Challenge Sled Dog Race, which is only two weeks away.\n\nTed tries to find out why he was given up for adoption, and who was his biological father. He meets bar owner Barb, a close friend of Lucy. Barb helps Ted to deal with the dogs and teaches him how to drive a sled, and falls in love with him. Ted has several encounters with Thunder Jack, who tries to buy the dogs, especially Demon.\n\nBarb tells Ted that Thunder Jack is his biological father. Ted confronts Thunder Jack, who offers to tell the truth about Ted's birth in exchange for the dogs; Ted agrees. Jack takes Brooks to a cave out in the woods. During an Arctic Challenge, he and Lucy were stranded in that cave, and it was there that Ted was conceived.\n\nThe next morning, when Thunder Jack woke up, Lucy was gone. He looked for her but never found her. Ted lends the dogs to Jack and returns to Miami. Thunder Jack adds Demon as lead dog of his team for the Arctic Challenge. Ernie has finished last in the last three Challenges, \"winning\" the \"Arctic Flame\" award as last \"musher\" to cross the finish line. The other mushers all camp at a checkpoint to wait out a bad storm, but Jack presses on. He is annoyed by the pretensions of defending champion Olivier, who is dining on crab legs in an elaborate tent.\n\nIn Miami, Ted recounts his experiences to his mother, who accidentally breaks a frame holding a picture of Lucy and Demon. This reveals a snapshot of Lucy and Jack with a baby. Ted is infuriated that Jack lied to him, and rushes back to Alaska. There he learns that Jack is lost on the trail, and the weather is too bad for searching.\n\nTed decides to go searching himself, taking Lucy's dogs with Nana as lead. As he heads back down the trail, he nearly collides with Olivier, who wins the Challenge again. A few hours later, Amelia arrives and meets Barb. She learns that Ted is out on the trail, searching for Jack. The \"Arctic Flame\" is burning over the finish line, until the last musher arrives.\n\nTed eventually locates Thunder Jack in the old cave. Jack admits he and Lucy had been together at the hospital when Ted was born, and that he loved her very much; but that he and Lucy had agreed then that neither one of them were ready to be parents. Ted also discovers that Demon's bad temper was because of a bad tooth.\n\nHe pulls the rotten tooth and Demon becomes more open and friendly (despite keeping his name). During the journey back to Tolketna, the sled nearly goes over a cliff into a river, but the dogs pull themselves back up. Ted finally brings Thunder Jack across the finish line. Ted introduces Thunder Jack to Amelia, and Brooks and Thunder Jack decide to share the \"Arctic Flame\" trophy.\n\nSome time later, Ted has moved his dental practice to Tolketna. He and Barb become a couple and get married. She has become his receptionist and is pregnant, and Nana and Demon have four puppies named Avalanche, Little Aleutia, Chinook, and Demon Jr. Back in Miami, Ted's cousin Rupert (Sisqó) becomes the new celebrity dentist, now with his face on every city bus.\n\n\nIn some scenes, the faces of the dogs are partially animated to give them human expressions like winking or smiling. The animatronic version of Demon was created by Jim Henson's Creature Shop and performed by David Barclay.\n\nThe film's budget was US$33 million. Canmore, Alberta, Canada was used to film the fictional city of Tolketna, Alaska. The dogs D.J., Koda, Floyd and Buck also starred in the adventure film, \"Eight Below\". Many of the dogs and mushers used in the film were locals. Two of the hero team doubles and all of Olivier's team were supplied by Nakitsilik Siberians of Bridge Lake, British Columbia. Mountain Mushers' from Golden BC supplied the Thunder Jack team.\n\nOld Ernie's team was supplied by Russ Gregory from Calgary, Alberta. Arcticsun Siberian Husky Kennel from Edmonton, Alberta was one of many kennels — including Czyz, Snowy Owl, Gatt racing — from the area that supplied background for the film. Two of the dogs came from Kortar Kennels, in Ontario. The animatronic effects were designed and built by Jim Henson's Creature Shop.\n\nThe special effects were provided by The Secret Lab, the special effects division of Disney.\n\nOn Rotten Tomatoes, the film has a rating of 25% based on 83 reviews. The site's consensus reads \"A mediocre live action children's movie, \"Snow Dogs\" is filled with cliched dialogue, tiresome pratfalls, and stale fish-out-of-water jokes.\" It grossed $115 million worldwide against a $33 million budget. The film was released in the United Kingdom on May 31, 2002, and opened on #5.\n\nJohn Debney won the ASCAP Award in 2003 for the soundtrack.\n\nA fictional sequel to \"Snow Dogs\", “5NOW DOG5”, was referenced in the episode of \"30 Rock\" in Season 6, \"The Shower Principle\". \"Snow Dogs\" was referenced in the \"Gilmore Girls\" Season 2 episode, \"Teach Me Tonight\". The film was also the inspiration for the reworking of a mafia comedy that was in development at Warner Bros. This eventually became the comedy of 2003, \"Kangaroo Jack.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2093931", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093931", "title": "Wife-carrying", "text": "Wife-carrying\n\nWife carrying (, , ) is a contest in which male competitors race while each carrying a female teammate. The objective is for the male to carry the female through a special obstacle track in the fastest time. The sport was first introduced at Sonkajärvi, Finland.\n\nSeveral types of carrying may be practised: either a classic piggyback, a fireman's carry (over the shoulder), or Estonian-style (wife upside-down on his back with her legs over the neck and shoulders).\n\nEukonkanto originated in Finland. Tales have been passed down of a man named Herkko Rosvo-Ronkainen (aka Ronkainen the Robber). This man was considered a robber in the late 1800s, lived in a forest, and ran around with his gang of thieves causing harm to the villages. From what has been found, there are three ideas as to why/how this sport was invented. Firstly, that Rosvo-Ronkainen and his thieves were accused of stealing food and women from villages in the area he lived in, then carrying these women on their backs as they ran away (hence the \"wife\" or woman carrying). The second suggestion is that young men would go to neighbouring villages, steal other men’s wives to marry themselves. These wives were also carried on the backs of the young men; this was referred to as “the practice of wife stealing\". Lastly, is the idea that Rosvo-Ronkainen trained his thieves to be \"faster and stronger\" by carrying big, heavy sacks on their backs, from which evolved this sport. Though the sport is often considered a joke, competitors take it very seriously, just like any other sport.\n\nWife carrying contests have taken place in Australia, the United States, Hong Kong, India, Germany, the UK and other parts of the world besides Finland and nearby Sweden, Estonia and Latvia, and the sport has a category in the \"Guinness Book of Records\".\n\nThe original course was a rough, rocky terrain with fences and brooks, but it has been altered to suit modern conditions. There is now sand instead of full rocks, fences, and some kind of area filled with water (a pool). These are the following rules set by the International Wife Carrying Competition Rules Committee:\nWhile the International rules are the basis for all competitions, rules and prizes do vary for each competition.\n\nThe Wife Carrying World Championships have been held annually in Sonkajärvi, Finland, since 1992 (where the prize is the wife's weight in beer).\n\n\nAustralian Wife Carrying Championships have been held annually since 2005.\n\nThe North American Wife Carrying Championships takes place every year since 1999 on Columbus Day Weekend in October at Sunday River Ski Resort in Newry, Maine.\n\n\nThe United Kingdom Wife Carrying Race was established in 2008, though the \"sport\" is claimed to have taken place \"with help from our Scandinavian cousins\" for around 300 years from 793AD when Viking raiders raided villages and abducted wives.\n\n\nThe US final takes place on the second weekend of July in Menahga Minnesota (MN-St. Urho Wife Carry for Charity Challenge).\nMajor wife-carrying competitions are also held in Monona, Wisconsin, Minocqua, Wisconsin and Marquette, Michigan.\n\nEcorun India, a society for creating environmental awareness organized Wife Carrying Race in Thiruvananthapuram, Kerala, India, Asia on 1 January 2011. The event is called \"Bhaaryaasametham\" roughly translated as 'with your wife' in Malayalam, the local language. The society plans on conducting more such events every year in India. Wife carrying in Asia is also called matukinina.\n\nA Bollywood movie named Dum Laga Ke Haisha had \"wife carrying race\" in its backdrop.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2093941", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093941", "title": "Scientist Encounters Pac-Man", "text": "Scientist Encounters Pac-Man\n\nScientist Encounters Pac-Man is an album featuring the dub musician Scientist in 1982. It was produced by Linval Thompson and was released on Greensleeves Records. It was recorded at Channel One Studio, Kingston, Jamaica. The backing band was Roots Radics and the cover artwork was by Tony McDermott.\n\nAll tracks composed by Linval Thompson\n\n"}
{"id": "2093947", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093947", "title": "Joseph A. McChristian", "text": "Joseph A. McChristian\n\nJoseph Alexander McChristian (October 12, 1914 – May 13, 2005) was a United States Army Brigadier General and the assistant chief of staff for intelligence, Military Assistance Command, Vietnam (J-2, MACV) (then commanded by General William Westmoreland) from July 13, 1965 to June 1, 1967. As J-2, MACV, he predicted that the North Vietnamese would attack in full force, which they did during the 1968 Tet offensive. His prediction was unpopular because the official policy was that US and South Vietnamese forces were winning the war.\n\nFrom August 5, 1968 to his retirement on April 30, 1971, as a Major General, he was assistant chief of staff for intelligence in the Department of the Army. \n\nMcChristian is a member of the Military Intelligence Hall of Fame.\n\n"}
{"id": "2093962", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093962", "title": "Education Maintenance Allowance", "text": "Education Maintenance Allowance\n\nEducation Maintenance Allowance (EMA) (; LCA) is a financial scheme applicable to students and those undertaking unpaid work-based learning in the United Kingdom (except England) and aged between sixteen and nineteen whose parents had a certain level of taxable income. It is no longer paid in England. It applies to those doing, or applying to do, at least 12 hours of guided learning on further education courses in school sixth forms, sixth form colleges and Further Education colleges. This includes a wide range of courses up to and including level 3, such as A-levels, GCSEs, BTECs GNVQs, NVQs and other vocational qualifications. Those partaking in an Entry to Employment (E2E course, formerly known as Work based Learning) must do at least 16 hours a week of guided study. Any missed lessons except for extenuating circumstances voids payment for that week. In 2010 the weekly payment for the England scheme were:\n\nIn Scotland a flat rate of £30/week per student is payable where assessed income is £20,351 or less (or £22,403 where there is more than one child in the household).\n\nThe Labour Party claimed the EMA scheme was of great benefit to those teenagers from low-income households, encouraging people to stay in education past the legally required age of 16 (end of year 11; fourth year in Scotland, and year 12 in Northern Ireland). Once in education it encouraged high attendance in return for bonuses. A 2006 BBC report suggested that even with the EMA, parents earning less than £30,000 a year still struggle to support teenagers enough to enable them to stay in education past 16.\n\nIn tests done by 56 of the 150 English local education authorities in 2004, the Institute for Fiscal Studies and Loughborough University found staying-on rates improved up 5.9 percentage points among those who were eligible. This effect was most pronounced amongst boys whose parents were unemployed or employed in unskilled or semi-skilled manual jobs, the group with lowest stay-on rates, and arguably facing the most social pressure to earn money and peer pressure that education is unimportant.\n\nBoth the Liberal Democrats and the Conservative party stated opposition to EMA while in opposition. Liberal Democrat education spokesman Phil Willis, said: \"There are significantly more important things to do with £20m than give young people a Christmas bonus.\" Conservative Party spokesman Chris Grayling said: \"This is another blatant example of the government trying to fiddle the figures. Bribing young people to sign up for courses they may not complete, might make ministers' targets look achievable - but they do absolutely nothing to help solve this country's chronic skills shortage.\"\n\nThe United Kingdom Government confirmed on 20 October 2010 that the Education Maintenance Allowance scheme in England was to be cancelled as part of a programme of budget cuts. It has been replaced by a £180m bursary scheme focused on students from a less wealthy household than others. The Bursary is paid to the educational establishment, unlike EMA which is paid to the student.\n\nSince educational policy is a devolved matter, the EMA schemes in Wales and Scotland continue in effect after review by the Welsh Assembly and Scottish Parliament respectively, and new applications continue to be accepted. The EMA scheme in Northern Ireland, after review by the Northern Ireland Assembly, will also continue in 2011. However, EMA \"performance bonus payments\", as well as the £20 and £10 payment bands, were cut in Wales at the end of the 2010/2011 year.\n\n"}
{"id": "2093965", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093965", "title": "Noriq Records", "text": "Noriq Records\n\nNoriq Records pronounced (Nor-reek) was incorporated in June 2002 by IQ and Nor of KIN. This label is run by IQ as the active CEO and Nor as the active President making it one of the few indie labels run by two females. The first act signed to Noriq Records was of course the super group KIN, later on picking up on acts such as Kacie and Kay Smith. The foundation of Noriq is built on strong work ethic and quality music. Noriq is also a parent company to Red Eye Productions and Kin Writing Factory. There are limitless boundaries as to where this company will grow and succeed. With the tremendous capabilities of its owners, it is possible for it go on to becoming a major label.\n\nActs signed to Noriq Records are KIN, followed by acts such as Kacie and Kay Smith.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2093973", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093973", "title": "East Chapel Hill High School", "text": "East Chapel Hill High School\n\nEast Chapel Hill High School (\"East\") is a public high school in Chapel Hill, North Carolina. It is the second high school of the Chapel Hill-Carrboro City Schools district, which also contains Chapel Hill High School and Carrboro High School. The total enrollment in the 2013–2014 school year was 1,409 with 48% minority students.\n\nAlthough East previously ranked within the top 100 of American public high schools on \"U.S. News\", reaching as high as #23, it has not appeared on the list since the 2009–2010 school year due to being disqualified by achievement gaps. In 2012, it ranked #88 in \"Newsweek\"'s \"America's Best High Schools 2012.\"\n\nEast is a highly competitive school in which students typically score above the national average on standardized tests. In the 2010 school year the median weighted GPA was 3.91, and the median SAT score was 1809, compared to the state average of 1485. Also, 614 students participated in Advanced Placement (AP) examinations with 79% of all scores above a 3. The school scored the 2nd highest average SAT score in the Raleigh Durham area (behind Raleigh Charter High) in 2012 with 141 students taking the test and scoring and average of 1858. In 2010, the average was also 1858.\n\nEast has consistently performed strongly in academic competitions. In both 2009 and 2010, East was a finalist in the International Space Settlement Design Competition. East also placed 1st in both 2011 and 2012's North Carolina Ethics Bowl competitions, and both 1st and 2nd in 2013 and 2014 North Carolina Ethics Bowl and 1st in 2014 Ethics Bowl Nationals. In 2012, East hosted the first North Carolina tournament for the National History Bee and Bowl, in which East teams placed 1st in both Junior Varsity and Varsity divisions, and the 1st and 2nd places in the Varsity division Bee went to East players. In Science Olympiad, East has placed in the top 5 in North Carolina from 2011-2014 including many notable first and second placements in various events. In 2012, an East contestant in Model United Nations placed 2nd in the West Triangle chapter competition, while both 1st and 2nd prizes went to East students in the 2011 competition.\n\nFrom 2011–13, East was also a major national factor in high school quiz bowl competitions. At the 2012 NAQT high school national championship tournament, East tied for 13th place overall in the playoffs, with individuals ranked #31 and 43. Two members were also named to the North Carolina All-Star Team, which placed 7th overall in the 2012 NASAT. East finished with a year-end ranking of 14, the highest of any team from North Carolina. East came back from the loss of their top scorer to exceed their previous performance, tying for 8th place in the 2013 HSNCT, with the #11-ranked individual.\n\nIn 2016, East claimed the national championship title for High School Fiscal Challenge. Due to their radical, left-leaning proposal including a financial transactions tax, creating an aggressive estate tax, cutting agricultural subsidies, and shrinking the defense budget, the Koch Foundation pulled their funding from the competition. Fiscal Challenge has not hosted a national high school competition since. \n\nEast's Speech and Debate Team, coached by William \"Willie\" Warren, has claimed several national placements, across events including Congressional, Public Forum, Lincoln Douglass, and Policy Debate. East's Model United Nations team frequently wins national titles at university conferences, including DUMUNC (Duke University), MUNCH (UNC Chapel Hill), and ILMUNC (Ivy League). \n\nAccording to 2014–2015 school statistics, 53% of the school's student body is white, 11% is African American, 11% is Hispanic, and 19% is Asian. 48% of the student body is male and 52％ is female. Over the same time period, out of a total of 1411 students 27.1% (383 students) were in the 9th grade, 24.7% (349 students) were in the 10th grade, 24.2% (342) were in the 11th grade and 23.9% (337 students) were in the 12th grade. There were a total of 86 teachers making for a 1:16 ratio of teachers to students.\n\nAthletic programs make up a large part of student life at East, and East's teams have been highly competitive and successful every year since the school's inception in 1996. East fields teams in sports across the board. Fall sports include: football, men's soccer, women's tennis, field hockey, volleyball, cheerleading, women's golf, and men's and women's cross country. Winter sports include: men's and women's swimming and diving, men's and women's basketball, wrestling, cheerleading, and Men's and Women's Indoor Track and Field. Spring sports include men's tennis, baseball, softball, men's and women's track & field, men's golf, women's soccer, and men's and women's lacrosse. Since 1996, East teams have won many NC state, regional, conference, and individual championships. As of Fall 2004, East's women's tennis team had won 7 3A State Championships in a row. In the spring of 2008 the men's tennis team won the 4A state championships. In 2005, Sports Illustrated named East Chapel Hill the best sports high school in North Carolina. In the fall of 2015 the field hockey team won the NCFHA State Championship for the eighth year in a row but finished fourth in their 2016 season losing to rival Chapel Hill High School . The East men's lacrosse program has also won 2 state championships and was runner up three times in the past ten years. The women's lacrosse program has won four state championships in six appearances since the program's inception, including three consecutive titles from 2002 to 2004; the most recent state title was won in 2013.\n\nThe mascot is the Wildcat, in keeping with the school system's theme of big cats for high school mascots.\n\nThe school has a rivalry with the nearby Chapel Hill High School.\n\nOn Saturday, February 2, 2019, East Chapel Hill's female wrestlers Autumn Coles and Annikka Nordby participated in the first ever North Carolina Women's Wrestling States Invitation. Autumn Coles placed 5th in the weight class of 138, and Annikka Nordby placed 5th in the weight class of 145.\n\nProposals for the creation of an alumni association for East began in fall of 2007. These efforts took off in 2009 with the drafting of organizational bylaws, the creation of a Board of Directors, and the launching of a website.\n\nOn April 24, 2006, eighteen-year-old student W.B. Foster held both teacher Lisa Kukla, and a student hostage with a shotgun, a hunting knife, and a pistol in the schools \"Lower Quad C\" hall in what is now Ms. Burek's room. After more than an hour, Lisa Kukla was able to talk Foster out of harming her or the student. Instead, Foster fired a shot through the window and fled, but was later turned in to the police. It's unknown why Foster held those two hostage, since he was never taught by Kukla, and didn't seem to know the student. In June 2007, Foster was sentenced to five years of probation, because his attorneys said he had schizophrenia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2093974", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093974", "title": "William P. Yarborough", "text": "William P. Yarborough\n\nLieutenant General William Pelham Yarborough (May 12, 1912 – December 6, 2005) was a senior United States Army officer. Yarborough designed the U.S. Army's parachutist badge, paratrooper or 'jump' boots, and the airborne jump uniform. He is known as the \"Father of the Modern Green Berets.\" He is descended from the Yorkshire House of Yarborough. Yarborough is a distant cousin to such British noble figures as the Baron Deramore and Lord Alvingham.\n\nWilliam Pelham Yarborough was born May 12, 1912 in Seattle, Washington. He is the son of Colonel Leroy W. and Addessia Yarborough. He attended high school at San Rafael Military Academy in California and later at Columbus, Georgia. In 1931, Yarborough enlisted in the United States Army, obtaining an appointment to the U.S. Military Academy a year later in 1932. At his graduation from West Point in June 1936 Yarborough was sworn in as a second lieutenant by General of the Armies John Joseph Pershing. He was assigned to the 57th Infantry Regiment, Philippine Scouts at Fort McKinley, Luzon where he remained until February 1940, when he was transferred to the 29th Infantry Regiment at Fort Benning, Georgia. He volunteered for the airborne forces and joined the newly formed 501st Parachute Battalion in late 1940 and was given command of Company \"C\". Later, as Test Officer for the Provisional Parachute Group in 1941, he designed the paratrooper's boot, the paratrooper's uniform, the parachutist's qualification badge, and a number of aerial delivery containers for which he received U. S. patents.\n\nYarborough first met his future wife, Norma Tuttle Yarborough (1918–1999), when she was 12 and he was 18. At the time, they were neighbors when their fathers were stationed at Fort Benning. They became reacquainted when the two families were next door neighbors at Plattsburgh Barracks in New York. The future Mrs. Yarborough studied under Karl Menninger at Washburn University when her father was assigned to Fort Leavenworth. In 1936 she was crowned \"Miss Topeka.\"\n\nIn July 1942, seven months after the United States entered World War II, due to the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor, Yarborough, now a major, was selected by Major General Mark W. Clark to be his Airborne Advisor and in that capacity accompanied him to England. As a working member of the London Planning Group, he developed the initial concept and plan for the airborne phase of the Allied invasion of North Africa, codenamed Operation Torch. When the Paratroop Task Force departed Land's End, England on November 7, 1942, Yarborough, as executive officer (XO), accompanied it on its flight over Spain toward its target objectives in Algeria. This was the longest operational flight ever made by parachute troops. In the course of the ensuing action the airplane in which he was flying was shot down by Vichy French fighter aircraft over the Sebkra d'Oran. He participated in combat operations to capture Tafaroui Airdrome in Algeria. A week later, Yarborough parachuted into Youks les Bains Airfield near Tebessa, Algeria (near the Tunisian border) and fighting as part of a combined French and U.S. Paratroop Task Force in Tunisia until January 1943, when he returned to the United States.\n\nIn March 1943, Yarborough returned to North Africa as Commanding Officer (CO) of the 2nd Battalion, 504th Parachute Infantry Regiment, under Colonel Reuben H. Tucker, itself part of the 82nd Airborne Division, commanded by Major General Matthew Ridgway. Yarborough, promoted to lieutenant colonel in May, led his battalion throughout the Allied invasion of Sicily, Operation Husky. Following a disastrous ambush by Italian forces at Tumminello Pass, Yarborough was relieved of his command by Major General Ridgway. Mark Clark, now a lieutenant general commanding the American Fifth Army, then had him assigned to his staff. During the Allied invasion of Italy in September Yarborough served as the airborne G-3 staff officer of the Fifth Army, and organized the night drop zone to receive the latest elements of the 82nd Airborne Division, which had flown from Sicily to relieve the beleaguered beachhead at Salerno.\n\nJust prior to the fall of the Italian city and port of Naples, Yarborough was given command of the 509th Parachute Infantry Battalion, whose CO, Major Doyle Yardley, had been captured. His unit, as part of Colonel William O. Darby's Ranger Force, made the initial landings at Anzio-Neptune in January 1944 and held a key position on the beachhead for the next two months. Later, after being relieved at Anzio, under his command the 509th, and two attached parachute battalions, spearheaded the Allied landings in southern France, landing on a mountaintop near Le Muy before dawn. Cannes, Nice and Monte Carlo along the Côte d'Azur fell to the parachutists who then turned northward into the Maritime Alps to protect the right flank of Lieutenant General Alexander Patch's U.S. Seventh Army as it moved north.\n\nYarborough returned briefly to the United States to attend the 21st course of the U.S. Army Command and General Staff School at Fort Leavenworth, Kansas. He returned to Italy in January 1945 as CO of the 473rd Regimental Combat Team, who had previously been antiaircraft gunners. The 473rd serving in the Italian Campaign, which, during Operation Grapeshot, fought its way up the Ligurian Coast to Genoa and the French border as World War II came to an end. It was during this campaign that he was awarded the Silver Star.\n\nIn June 1945 the 473d Infantry Regiment was deactivated and Yarborough, remaining in Europe, was named as Provost Marshal; first of the 15th Army Group, and later of the U.S. Forces in Austria and the Vienna Area Command. In the latter position he organized the famous Four Power International Patrol of Russian, French, British, and American military police.\n\nFrom 1947 to 1949 Yarborough served as Director of the Department of Troop Information and Education at the Armed Forces Information School, Carlisle Barracks, Pennsylvania. In 1950 he returned to Europe for the third time to attend the British Staff College at Camberley, England. Upon graduation he was assigned to the NATO Plans Section of the Joint American Military Advisory Group to Europe, stationed in London. He entered the Army War College as a student in 1952 and after graduation served on its faculty for three years.\n\nIn 1956 he became Deputy Chief of the U. S. Military Advisory and Assistance Group to Cambodia. He remained in this assignment until he returned to the U.S. Army War College for a temporary tour prior to assuming command of the 1st Battle Group, 7th Infantry at Fort Benning, Georgia, later moving it to Aschaffenburg, Germany. Leaving the Battle Group in 1958, he commanded the 66th Counterintelligence Corps Group in Stuttgart for two years until his reassignment to Fort Bragg, North Carolina.\n\nIn January 1961, he was appointed commander/commandant of the US Army Special Warfare Center/School for Special Warfare at Fort Bragg, North Carolina. Remaining until 1965, he was instrumental in the build-up of Special Forces, overseeing the activation of four new Groups. He also worked diligently to increase the professional and academic standard of the JFK School, bringing in national figures in anthropology, history, science, and inviting leading political figures to speak. He initiated an exhaustive review of training programs and doctrine, and wrote numerous monographs on subjects pertaining to Special Operations, which are still relevant today. It was also under his management that foreign students were fully integrated into training and language instruction was expanded. He established five new courses including the Military Assistance Training Advisor School, the Unconventional Warfare course and the Counter-Terrorism course. He also initiated a staff study that later resulted in the movement of the US Army Civil Affairs School from Fort Gordon, Georgia to Fort Bragg.\n\nIt was during his tenure as Commander of the Special Warfare Center that in 1961, he arranged for President Kennedy to visit Fort Bragg, the results were twofold - acquiring the funding to further develop the Special Forces into a strategic unit within the US Army and the more visible sign - the authorization of the Green Beret for wear as the official headgear of Special Forces. Yarborough's design for the original parachutists uniform was incorporated into the 1963 Army tropical uniform that was later worn by all Army units in the Vietnam War.\n\nA Fort Bragg top-level U.S. Special Warfare team, headed by Special Warfare Center commander Yarborough, visited Colombia in February 1962. In a secret supplement to his report to the joint Chiefs of Staff, Yarborough encouraged a stay-behind irregular force and its immediate deployment to eliminate communists representing a future threat:\n\n[A] concerted country team effort should be made now to select civilian and military personnel for clandestine training in resistance operations in case they are needed later. This should be done with a view toward development of a civil and military structure for exploitation in the event the Colombian internal security system deteriorates further. This structure should be used to pressure toward reforms known to be needed, perform counter-agent and counter-propaganda functions and as necessary execute paramilitary, sabotage and/or terrorist activities against known communist proponents. It should be backed by the United States.\n\nYarborough encouraged \"an intensive civilian registration program ... so that [everyone] is eventually registered in government files together with fingerprints and photographs.\" Interrogation procedures and techniques, including regular questioning of rural villagers \"who are believed to be knowledgeable of guerrilla activities\" were advised. \"Exhaustive interrogation of the bandits, to include sodium pentathol and polygraph, should be used to elicit every shred of information. Both the Army and the Police need trained interrogators.\" Pentathol was originally used by doctors for relaxation, but in the 1970s it was reported used by some Latin American militaries to induce \"paralysis, agony, and terror.\"\n\n\"In general, the Yarborough team recommended that the US provide guidance and assistance in all aspects of counter-insurgency ... Civilian and military personnel, clandestinely selected and trained in resistance operations, would be required in order to develop an underground civil and military structure. This organization was to undertake 'clandestine execution of plans developed by the United States Government toward defined objectives in the political, economic, and military fields' ... it would ... undertake ... 'paramilitary, sabotage, and/or terrorist activities against known communist proponents'.\" Yarborough did not feel that this would be successful unless it were under U.S. command.\n\nAfter his tenure at the Special Warfare School, he served as Senior Member, UN Command Military Armistice Commission, Panmunjom, Korea where he was the chief spokesman and negotiator for the UN Command in talks with the North Koreans and Chinese. He then was assigned as Assistant Deputy Chief of Staff for Special Operations in the Pentagon with the responsibility of all Special Forces, PSYOP and Civil Affairs units and activities. In this position, he completed exhaustive studies on the state of insurgencies in Thailand and Latin America. A year later, he became the Assistant Chief of Staff for Intelligence on the Army General Staff where he monitored the Army's intelligence training programs, provided finished intelligence materials to the Army General Staff and directed the Army's personnel security program. He also directed the programs in which foreign military attaches assigned to Washington were involved and was responsible for their accreditation by DA.\n\nDuring the final years of his career, Yarborough was the Army's top intelligence officer at the Pentagon in Washington, D.C. He assumed the command of I Corps in Korea in 1968, a position he held for a year. I Corps consisted of both conventional and nuclear weapons, two American divisions and three Korean Divisions and a Korean Marine Corps Brigade, numbering approximately 100,000 men. In 1969, he was assigned as the Chief of Staff and Deputy Commander in Chief, U.S. Army Pacific, responsible for directing a wide variety of Army activities in the Pacific Rim, including planning joint training exercises, response to natural disasters and monitoring intelligence operations. He retired from the Army in 1971.\n\nIn 1971, the Army tasked him to prepare a classified Asian study on the state of the Asian continent after the Vietnam War. He also was a guest speaker for the National Strategy Information Center where he gave talks such as the Changing Balance of Military Power or the history of Special Forces to various groups around the country. He also was asked to visit various countries such as Rhodesia and Mozambique for the State Department. From his visits, he wrote various talking papers still in use today.\n\nYarborough was a member of the Rotary and Kiwanis Clubs. He was also an honorary member of the British SAS Regiment and a member of the St. John's Lodge 260, F&AM. He wrote two books: \"Bail Out Over North Africa\" and \"So You Want A Volunteer Army\". General Yarborough was married to his wife Norma for over 60 years. They had three children: 2 girls and one boy, LTC (Ret.) William Lee Yarborough, US Army. Mrs. Yarborough died in 1999.\n\nShortly before his death, Yarborough was honored on September 30, 2005 with the donation of a bust in his honor at the Airborne and Special Operations Museum in Fayetteville, North Carolina. In 2012, he and President John F. Kennedy were memorialized by a new statue at the U.S. Army John F. Kennedy Special Warfare Center and School at Fort Bragg. The statue was commissioned by Ross Perot.\n\nA veteran of four combat jumps, General Yarborough holds, among other awards and decorations, the Distinguished Service Medal, Silver Star, Legion of Merit with three Oak Leaf Clusters, Bronze Star, Joint Services Commendation Medal, Italian Bronze Medal for Valor, Italian Cross for Valor, French Croix de guerre with Palm, Regimental Badge 3d Zouaves, Korean Order of Merit Second Class, Combat Infantryman Badge, the Cambodian, Korean, Philippine, Thai and Vietnamese Parachutist Badges, and the Unit Citation with Oak Leaf Cluster.\n\nLieutenant General William P. Yarborough is at rest at Arlington National Cemetery SECTION 4 SITE 3099-D\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2093988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093988", "title": "Hank Aaron Stadium", "text": "Hank Aaron Stadium\n\nHank Aaron Stadium is a baseball park in Mobile, Alabama. From 1997 to 2019, it hosted the Mobile BayBears, a minor-league professional team in the Southern League. The stadium opened in 1997 and has a capacity of 6,000. The ballpark was named after Major League Baseball's home run king (1974–2007) and Mobile native Hank Aaron. It also features a commemorative plaque outside the stadium to honor each Mobilian enshrined at the Hall of Fame in Cooperstown, New York. Hank Aaron Stadium is unique in that the luxury suites are at field level. Thus, infield seating for the general public is elevated from the field by approximately 20 feet.\n\nThe BayBears played their final game on September 2, 2019, before a relocation to Madison, Alabama, in 2020. Mobile Sports and Entertainment Group (MSEG) was tabbed as operator of the stadium on December 11, 2019.\n\nIn November 1995, Mobile's city council voted to allocate $4 million to a new ballpark in Mobile and name it Hank Aaron Stadium. The city committed to pay for half the cost of construction and match the contribution of new franchise owner Eric Margenau. Architectural plans for the ballpark were unveiled in May 1996. Mobile city council member Vivian Davis Figures had suggested that the new ballpark be named after Aaron. The ballpark opened on April 17, 1997. Aaron's number 44 was retired by the BayBears and he threw out the first pitch with his parents, siblings, and extended family in attendance.\n\nOn July 14, 1999, the ballpark hosted the Double-A All-Star Game in which a team of National League-affiliated All-Stars defeated a team of American League-affiliated All-Stars, 3–0, before 6,174 people in attendance.\n\nIn the stadium's final BayBears game, Mobile was defeated by the Tennessee Smokies, 5–4, before a crowd of 1,554 people.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2093995", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093995", "title": "Orange Line (Los Angeles Metro)", "text": "Orange Line (Los Angeles Metro)\n\nThe G Line (formerly the Orange Line) is a bus rapid transit line in the Metro Busway network in Los Angeles, California. It operates between Chatsworth and the North Hollywood Metro Station in the San Fernando Valley where it connects with the B Line (Red) on the Metro Rail system for Downtown Los Angeles. The other line in the Metro Busway network is the J Line (Silver). The Orange Line uses a dedicated, exclusive right-of-way for the entirety of its route with stations located at approximately one-mile intervals; fares are paid via TAP cards at vending machines on station platforms before boarding to improve performance. The Metro Orange Line bicycle path runs alongside part of the route. \n\nThe line, which is operated by the Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority (Metro), opened on October 29, 2005, with a construction cost of $324 million. The route follows part of the Southern Pacific Railroad's former Burbank Branch Line which provided passenger rail service from 1904 to 1920; it was subsequently used by Pacific Electric streetcars from 1938 to 1952.\n\nIn 2020, the line was renamed to the G Line while retaining its orange coloring.\n\nThe Institute for Transportation and Development Policy (ITDP), under its BRT Standard, has given the Orange Line corridor a Bronze ranking.\n\nBecause of its many differences from a standard bus service, the authority has branded the transitway as part of the region's network of light and heavy rail lines. It appears on Metro's \"Metro Rail & Busway\" map. Orange Line vehicles (called Metro Liners) are painted in the silver-and-gray color scheme of Metro Rail vehicles. Likewise, it is one of the authority's two bus lines that have been marketed with a color designation rather than its line number (901). The Orange Line is rarely referred to by its line number, but it sometimes appears on documents and destination signage.\n\nThe transitway's color name, the Orange Line, refers to the many citrus trees that once blanketed the San Fernando Valley. In the planning stages the transitway was known as the San Fernando Valley East-West Transitway, and later the Metro Rapidway.\n\nMetro Orange Line buses to Chatsworth operate 24 hours a day. At peak hours (between 6 am and 7pm eastbound, 5 am and 6 pm westbound), alternate buses run only between North Hollywood and Canoga Station. Passengers can transfer at Canoga to a shuttle bus that serves the Warner Center area, including the former Orange Line station.\n\nMaximum recorded average weekday boardings were 31,904 during September 2013. While usage initially fell during the Great Recession with average weekday boarding running at 22,669 in 2010, it has since rebounded, averaging 28,263 weekday boardings so far in 2015.\n\nCollisions with automobiles occurred weekly during the first several months of operations. Metro has noted that the Orange Line had about the same accident rate as other bus lines in the city on a per-mile basis, and has stated that the line's accident rate is \"less than half\" of Metro's entire fleet of buses. The Blue Line also had a significant number of collisions in its early years and currently has the highest fatality rate in North America.\n\nMetro issued slow orders after two collisions in November 2005 involving a critically injured driver. Buses were required to slow to 10 mi/h (16 km/h) vs. 25–30 mi/h (40–50 km/h).\n\nIn December 2005, Metro called for the installation of red-light cameras at most intersections.\n\nThere is concern that the Orange Line will soon reach its engineered capacity, and has exceeded its designed capacity during peak periods. During peak hours, the signaling system is designed to balance the Orange Line buses with vehicle cross traffic. Adding more buses requires platooning, or bunching, which is the running of convoys of two or more buses together, similar to what rail achieves in having multiple cars per train. Greater signal prioritization is also an option, and comes at the cost of decreasing cross street travel times and capacity. Another alternative requires the changing of state law or the granting of a Caltrans exemption from state law and the purchasing of buses.\n\nThe majority of the Orange Line is built on part of the former Southern Pacific Railroad, which was later taken over for Pacific Electric Red Car service; passenger service on this segment ended in 1952, but the right-of-way remained undeveloped, and was acquired by Metro in 1991. As the Metro Rail system was being designed in the 1990s, initial plans were to build an extension of the Metro Red Line there, since the purchased right-of-way's eastern terminus was at the site of the planned North Hollywood station. However, political developments stymied these plans: community objections to surface transit along the route resulted in a 1991 law mandating that any line along the route be built as a deep-bore tunnel, but a 1998 ballot measure driven by perceptions of mismanagement banned the use of county sales tax to fund subway tunneling. Prevented from using the route for rail, Metro proceeded to create its first bus rapid transit line along the corridor, and despite further lawsuits from area residents, the line opened on October 29, 2005, at a final cost of $324 million ($23 million per mile).\n\nOn June 23, 2009 construction began on a four-mile (6 km) extension from Canoga northward along the Southern Pacific trackbed to the Metrolink station in Chatsworth. Metro's board approved the plan on September 28, 2006, and it was completed in 2012 at a cost of $215 million. This created two branches at the western end of the line beyond Canoga station; the older branch proceeded outside the busway on city streets to Warner Center. In 2018, this branch was eliminated and replaced with a frequent service local shuttle, leaving the entirety of the Orange Line on dedicated right-of-way.\n\nIn July 2017, Metro voted to begin a transition to an all-electric bus fleet. While the entire fleet will probably not be replaced until 2030, the transition on the two Metro Busway lines will begin much sooner. A contract was signed to purchase 35 60-foot articulated zero emission New Flyer XE60 buses for the Orange Line, with all-electric service on the line expected by 2020.\n\nAs part of the package of enhancement to the LA Metro system approved by voters in 2016 with Measure M, in October 2017 Metro recommended a series of improvements to the Orange Line. These include quad crossing gates at 34 intersections, and the construction of a mile-long elevated section between Sepulveda and Van Nuys Boulevard. These improvements would eliminate much of the time Orange Line buses spend waiting at red lights, and would cut end-to-end travel time along the entire route by 29%. Projected construction costs are $283 million.\n\nThe project is currently in the pre-construction, planning, and public outreach phase, but the goal is to begin full construction in 2019 and complete it by 2025. The pre-construction phase of the Metro Orange Line grade-separation has already begun, starting with the LADWP undergrounding the overhead power lines at Sepulveda Blvd and Orange Line in Van Nuys.\n\nTwo possible extensions of the Orange Line to Burbank have been proposed. One possible extension proposed by transit advocates, including members of The Transit Coalition, is an extension from North Hollywood station to Hollywood Burbank Airport, which would run north on Vineland Avenue and east on Vanowen Street to the airport, to connect with the Metrolink station.\n\nAnother extension proposed is from the North Hollywood Station along Chandler Boulevard that would connect to the Burbank Downtown Metrolink Station. The 3.9 mile long arrangement would provide increased access to commuter rail as well as transit access to the pedestrian-friendly entertainment and retail district of Downtown Burbank at the proposed new terminus. Proponents of this expansion also argue that the extended line could eventually serve as the beginning of a San Fernando Valley / Orange Line to Pasadena / Gold Line connection.\n\nAs of October 2011, both the Bob Hope Airport and Downtown Burbank extension options are being studied, in addition to other potential BRT routes in Los Angeles County. The abandoned roadbed east of North Hollywood Station was converted into the Chandler Bikeway rail trail.\n\nWhen purchased in 1991, Metro originally considered the route for use as either light rail or a Red Line extension: both ideas have been discussed repeatedly by train advocates. A railroad route would allow longer vehicles and higher operating speeds. The conversion back to a railroad would be relatively inexpensive: former mayor Richard Riordan described it as the \"least expensive rail alternative\" of the lines under consideration. However, there are several legal and political challenges. Until 2014, Metro was prohibited by law from converting the Orange Line to any form of rail other than a subway. Due to a 1998 proposition, Metro also cannot spend the sales tax revenue from previously passed propositions, but can use revenue from subsequent tax increase propositions such as Measure R funds (conversion of Orange Line to rail is not included in any Measure R projects, but does include the \"subway to the sea\" along Wilshire Boulevard and other subway proposals) and other sources of revenue on subways.\n\nMetro has been criticized for dismantling existing railroad infrastructure for bus usage. In October 2013, Los Angeles City 4th District Councilman Tom LaBonge introduced a motion to support the repeal of Public Utilities Code section 130265 (1991's SB 211, or Robbins Bill) and support of any legislative and/or administrative action by Metro which would prioritize the development of rail-based transit. The motion was passed by the City Council on October 29, 2013 and approved by the Mayor on November 6, 2013.\n\nIn April 2015, a report prepared for Metro estimated that conversion of the Orange Line to light rail would take two to three years and cost between $1.2 and $1.7 billion. This price would include both upgraded infrastructure and corresponding rail vehicles. Improvements to the busway to improve capacity, including more and larger buses and grade separation at busy intersections, could be implemented for $230 to $350 million. The report noted that if not upgraded in some way in the near future, the Orange Line would soon reach capacity at rush hours.\n\nAs the above projects are phased in, long term plans in 2018 had full conversion planned to take place by 2050.\n\nOn October 27, 2005, two days before the line's official opening, a motorist driving with a suspended license ran a red light and collided with an eastbound bus at Vesper Avenue. There were no injuries.\n\nDuring November 2005 there were two collision-caused injuries. In the first, a fare inspector on the bus was taken to a hospital for minor injuries after a 65-year-old female driver made an illegal right turn against a red light and struck an Orange Line bus near the crossing at Corbin Avenue in Reseda. In the second, one person was seriously injured and 14 others hospitalized after an elderly motorist apparently ran a red light while using a mobile phone. After the second collision, Metro instructed all buses to slow down at intersections and installed white strobe lights on the sides of the buses to improve visibility. They said that they would review any and all ideas to improve safety on the line.\n\nIn October 2006, a delivery truck hit the side of a bus. One person was seriously injured and 16 received minor injuries.\n\nThe G Line currently uses NABI 60-BRT buses. The large buses, which have been dubbed \"Metro Liners\" by Metro, are twenty feet longer than the standard forty-foot bus, and carry up to 57 passengers, which is about 50% more passengers. (A prototype 65-foot bus is also used for the G Line.) The buses are articulated in the center due to this longer length and have three doors for faster boarding and alighting. Vehicles have no fareboxes because the Metro G Line operates on a proof-of-payment system, like the Metro Rail network. These will be replaced by New Flyer XE60s.\n\nOn October 22, 2004, Metro issued a Revised Final Environmental Impact Report (RFEIR) that concluded that the Metro Orange Line was superior to each of three Rapid Bus Alternatives studied in the revised report. The RFEIR studied:\n\n\nThe revised FEIR examined the environmental impacts, costs and benefits of each Rapid Bus alternative and concluded:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2093997", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093997", "title": "Sonic Death", "text": "Sonic Death\n\nSonic Death is a live album by American rock band Sonic Youth. It was released in 1984 on cassette tape by the Ecstatic Peace! record label.\n\n\"Sonic Death\" contains live recordings from 1981 to 1983. Many of the tracks on the album appear only as fragments, often with no breaks between them. Most of the songs are live versions of tunes from Sonic Youth's first three releases, \"Sonic Youth\", \"Confusion Is Sex\" and the \"Kill Yr Idols\" EP.\n\nBecause Sonic Youth used many different alternative tunings, but could not afford to travel with separate instruments for each tuning in the band's early years, members of the band can be heard changing tunings between songs.\n\nThe album was originally released as a cassette tape on Thurston Moore's Ecstatic Peace! label. It was later re-released on cassette and released on CD by Blast First and SST Records. It is currently out of print.\n\nStephen Thomas Erlewine of AllMusic wrote: \"\"Sonic Death: Early Sonic 1981-1983\" captures the early incarnation of Sonic Youth at their noisiest and artiest\", but calling it \"often [...] unfocused and tiresome\". \"Trouser Press\" called it \"a compilation of poorly-recorded live performances.\"\n\nThe album's cover has no track listing, and CD versions consist of only one track, or two tracks (depending on the release), matching the two sides of the original cassette. The following is a list of songs that can be recognized clearly.\n\nSide A\n\nSide B\n"}
{"id": "2093999", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093999", "title": "John J. Davis (general)", "text": "John J. Davis (general)\n\nJohn J. Davis (March 19, 1909 – August 22, 1997) was a U.S. Army officer. In the 1960s Davis, then a major general, served as the assistant chief of staff for intelligence, headquarters, Department of the Army. He was later promoted to lieutenant general.\n\nDavis is a member of the Military Intelligence Hall of Fame.\nHe retired from active duty in 1970 and died in 1997 of a stroke.\n"}
{"id": "2094013", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2094013", "title": "Flair bartending", "text": "Flair bartending\n\nFlair bartending is the practice of bartenders entertaining guests, clientele or audiences with the manipulation of bar tools (e.g. cocktail shakers) and liquor bottles in tricky, dazzling ways. Used occasionally in cocktail bars, the action requires skills commonly associated with jugglers. It has become a sought-after talent among venue owners and marketers to help advertise a liquor product or the opening of a bar establishment. Competitions have been sponsored by liquor brands to attract flair bartenders, and some hospitality training companies hold courses to teach flair techniques.\n\nFlair bartending is sometimes referred to as \"extreme bartending\" or contracted to \"flairtending\". The word \"flair\" became popular among practitioners in the mid-1990s. \"Flair\" is also used as a verb (e.g. \"to flair\"), referring to any trickery used by a bartender in order to entertain guests while mixing a drink. Flair can include juggling, flipping (bottles, shakers), manipulating flaming liquors or even performing close-up magic tricks (also referred to as \"bar-magic\").\n\nFlair is showmanship added to bartending that enhances the overall guest experience. The ideas behind mixology and drink-oriented or service-minded bartending can still be upheld with the correct application of working flair. Recently, there is a noticeable rise in bartenders combining prominent mixology knowledge and working flair skills all over the world. Working flair and Exhibition flair are very similar on the grounds that they both require precision and practice, however the use of exhibition flair has become a competition oriented style where significantly greater risks are being taken. Working flair, which is much more common, focuses more on delivering drinks to customers while still ensuring visual entertainment.\n\nThe earliest record of a flair bartender is barman Jerry \"The Professor\" Thomas, who poured fiery streams of boiling water and flaming whisky and mixed an original cocktail called the Blue Blazer in the late nineteenth century.\n\nFlairing was also prominently featured in the 1988 film \"Cocktail\" starring Tom Cruise.\n\nBoth working flair and exhibition flair can be seen in competitions, depending on the rules and regulations of each event. The important distinction between working flair and exhibition flair is not so much the level of liquid in the bottles (though that is a criterion) but the speed in which the bottle is thrown and/or the drink is made. Working flair usually incorporates a \"flat\" throw, which is when the bottle is released into the air without flipping. This gives an illusion of the bottle floating, but reduces the chances of liquid spilling. This also opens the bartender to be able to use similar routines, regardless of what bottle they grab, as the level of liquid is not a factor. The accepted definition of working flair is \"flair that does not noticeably slow service\", usually involving bottles filled to various levels (as in a real work situation) that are quickly manipulated and then poured. Exhibition flair almost always involves bottles that are often pre-set with less than 2 ounces (60ml) specifically for flipping. Exhibition flair often involves longer sequences and routines, multiple objects, and performances choreographed to music.\n\nThe first open competition to have an exhibition round was the Quest for the Best Bartender in 1995.\n\nThe first open competition to have a working flair round was the Quest for the Best Bartender in the World in 1999.\n\nThe first all working flair bartending competition was the Flair Bartenders Shakedown in 2006 organized by BarWars LLC.\n\nThere are different styles of flair bartending competitions. \"Legends of Bartending\" World Bartender Championships test the bartender on four disciplines of bartending, accuracy, speed, working flair and exhibition flair. The \"Blue Blazer\" and Independent Flair League (IFL) in Poland rewards flair and mixology together; competitors gain points for both flair and creative mixology. NATIONS International Flair Challenge and other competitions like Roadhouse World Flair, MBA, Athens Flair Open feature pure exhibition flair where the biggest and best moves are shown.\n\nIn 1986, T.G.I. Friday's management encouraged their bartenders to show their personalities behind the bar and this resulted in several bartenders (a few being John JB Bandy, John Mescall, and Magic Mike) being sent to the corporate T.G.I. Friday's office in Texas to shoot a bartending video. At the end of 1986, T.G.I. Friday's hosted the first national flair bartending competition called \"Bar Olympics\" in Woodland Hills, California. John JB Bandy was the winner of this competition. In 1987, after interviewing 34 bartenders, John JB Bandy was approached across the bar by Touchstone Pictures to assist in training Tom Cruise and Bryan Brown for the 1988 film, \"Cocktail\". Later that year after filming, John JB Bandy produced the very first flair bartending training video called \"Olympic Bartending\". T.G.I. Friday's is credited for modernizing and popularizing flair bartending in the United States beginning in the mid-1980s because they allowed artistic personality freedom behind the bar. London (Roadhouse) and Orlando (Quest for the Best at Pleasure Island's Manniquins) were the hotbeds of flair bartending in the early and mid-1990s. In 1991, T.G.I. Friday's started its global competition called \"World Bartender Championship\". The global competition has continued to today with divisional champions from across the US, Latin America and European Divisions coming to compete in Carrollton, Texas.\n\nThere are hundreds of flair bartending competitions around the world each year, most of which are local and not well publicized. In 2005 the Flair Bartenders Association (FBA) launched the \"FBA Pro Tour\", a linked series of events where competitors earn points toward the title Pro Tour Champion at the end of the year. In 2007 there were 14 events on the Pro Tour with 7 of them located in the US.\n\nIn 2008 the World Flair Association launched the Grand Slam. A worldwide tournament the includes the best competitions from all over the world. It is seen today as the biggest competition/tournament to win in the world of flair. Bartenders travel far and wide for the Grand Slam events to try and earn the title of Grand Slam World Champion. The Grand Slam events vary each year, being located in Europe, Asia, and America.\n\nFive-Time World Champion Ken Hall and Jim Allison, president of the FBA, organized six of those seven events. The flagship flair bartending event is \"Legends of Bartending\", which celebrated its twelfth year in 2010.\n\nSome the biggest flair bartending events all over the World includes\n\nThe International Bartenders Association was founded in 1951. In 2000, the IBA initiated a World Flair Competition. This event is held at the IBA's annual congress of members, together with the organization's World Classic Cocktail Competition (inaugurated in 1955).\n\nThe newest major events to gain credibility among top competitors include:\n\nMajor events are mostly Grand Slam Events. Prize money has reduced significantly since the recession a few years ago. However, there are a lot more competitions worldwide. With the help of the Internet there have also been some online competitions.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2094015", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2094015", "title": "The Dominica Story", "text": "The Dominica Story\n\nThe Dominica Story: A History of the Island is a history book from 1975, written by famed Dominican historian Lennox Honychurch. Originally presented as a miniseries for Radio Dominica (now DBS Radio) in 1974, the inaugural edition covered every aspect of local history from prehistory up to the then-present (the island's 1967 Associated Statehood).\n\nThe book's first edition of 18 chapters was an immediate bestseller upon its release. A revised version with 21 chapters was printed in 1984. A commercial edition, this time with 24 chapters and focusing on local events in the 1980s and 1990s, was published in 1995 by the Caribbean imprint of Macmillan.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2094016", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2094016", "title": "Plum-yew", "text": "Plum-yew\n\nPlum-yew is a common name for several plants and may refer to:\n"}
{"id": "2094027", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2094027", "title": "Alva R. Fitch", "text": "Alva R. Fitch\n\nAlva Revista Fitch (September 10, 1907 – November 25, 1989) was a lieutenant general in the United States Army and was deputy director of Defense Intelligence Agency from 1964 to 1966. He commanded an artillery battalion during the Battle of Bataan and was a prisoner of war from 1942 to 1945. From October 16, 1961, to January 5, 1964, Fitch served as the assistant chief of staff for intelligence, Headquarters, Department of the Army.\n\nBorn in Amherst, Nebraska, on September 10, 1907, son of Gertrude De La Barre and John Albert Fitch. Fitch was the first Eagle Scout in Nebraska, and one of the very earliest west of the Mississippi River. He graduated from Kearney High School and received an appointment to West Point, having been nominated by Nebraska senator Robert B. Howell.\n\nFitch graduated from the United States Military Academy at West Point in June 1930 and became a second lieutenant in the Field Artillery. He was promoted to first lieutenant in September 1935 and served as aide-de-camp to Gen. Lesley J. McNair from 1937 to 1939.\n\nFitch was sent to Fort Stotsenburg in the Philippines in February 1940 and He commanded Battery A of the 23rd Field Artillery Regiment, which was armed with horse and mule drawn QF 2.95-inch Mountain Guns. He was promoted to captain in June 1940.\n\nAfter the invasion of the Philippines began on 8 December 1941, the 23rd Field Artillery was attached to the 26th Cavalry Regiment on December 13 and retreated with other units of I Corps to Bataan. Fitch was promoted to major in January 1942 and was put in command of the 71st Field Artillery when Colonel Halstead C. Fowler was wounded. Fitch received the Distinguished Service Cross for leading a battalion of artillery cut off by Japanese encirclement to remaining I Corp units south of Mauban. He was captured in May 1942 a few days after surrender and taken prisoner.\n\nA survivor of the Bataan Death March, he was held at Luzon at Camp O'Donnell In December 1944 he was transferred with other Bataan survivors aboard the Ōryoku Maru to the Fukuoka prison camps. He was released in September 1945. He was awarded the Distinguished Service Cross and the Silver Star for heroism and courage in combat and while a captive of the Japanese.\n\nFrom February to July 1946 he attended the Command and General Staff College at Fort Leavenworth, Kansas, and remained as an instructor until August 1947.\n\nIn the Korean War, Fitch was an artillery commander and then commanded the 3rd Armored Division. He later served as Chief of Staff of Army Intelligence before being named to the Defense Intelligence Agency post in 1964.\n\nHe served on the Army Aircraft Requirements Review Board, also known as the Rogers Board, which was established on January 15, 1960, by the Army Chief of Staff to review the Army Aircraft Development Plan and the related industry proposals. The Rogers Board's members included Major Generals Hamilton H. Howze, Thomas F. Van Natta, Robert J. Wood, Richard D. Meyer, Ernest F. Easterbrook, and chairman Lieutenant General Gordon B. Rogers; and its results prefigured the more influential Howze Board on airmobility.\n\nFitch retired from active duty in 1966 and was military editor of the Kiplinger Newsletter from 1966 to 1975.\n\nHe died at Walter Reed Army Medical Center, Washington, D.C., on November 25, 1989, and was buried in Section 30 of Arlington National Cemetery. General Fitch is a member of the Military Intelligence Hall of Fame.\n\nGeneral Fitch was Elvis Presley's commanding officer during the singer's stint in the army from 1958 to 1960.\n\nFuture U.S. Secretary of State Colin Powell was a lieutenant with the 3rd Armored Division under General Fitch.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2094029", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2094029", "title": "Scientist in the Kingdom of Dub", "text": "Scientist in the Kingdom of Dub\n\nScientist in the Kingdom of Dub is an album recorded and released in 1981 by the dub musician Scientist. Recorded at Channel One Studios in Kingston, Jamaica, the album was produced by Roy Cousins. It was released by Kingdom Records.\n\n\nDiscogs: https://www.discogs.com/Scientist-In-The-Kingdom-Of-Dub/release/440190\n"}
{"id": "2094031", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2094031", "title": "Anekal", "text": "Anekal\n\nAnekal is a major town and taluk of BANGALORE URBAN district. It is a major town in the suburbs of Bangalore city. Approximately 36 km from Bangalore Centre and around 15 km from Hosur and Electronics City. Express lines run from Silk Board to Anekal passing through the National Highway and SH broadway thus providing excellent connectivity. It lies in the southern part of the Bangalore metropolitan area.\nAnekal is known for the karaga and Dasara festivals. It is a growing hub for residence seekers in Bangalore and is perfectly positioned with great infrastructure and facilities. Multiple Industrial areas like Attibele, Sarjapur and Jigani lie in Anekal Taluk and contribute to major economic turnovers.\n\nMajor MNCs and IT-BT companies like Infosys, Biocon, Wipro, HCL, TCS, Accenture and so on are all part of Anekal Taluk.\n\nThe population has more nearly doubled since 2011 with growing business opportunities. Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC) operates 4 Depots in Anekal Taluk and Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) operates one Bus Depot providing excellent connectivity.\n\nAnekal, town situated about 35 km from Bangalore, is a municipal town. The town was founded in about 1603 by Chikka Thimme Gowda of the Sugatur family, the General of Bijapur, after annexing Thimme Gowda’s hereditary possessions of Hoskote, granted him Anekal. He thereupon erected the fort and temple and constructed a large tank. At the time of his grandson Dodda Thimme Gowda, Anekal was annexed by Mysore. The Chief continued, by paying tribute to Mysore. Finally Haidar Ali expelled the rulers, and Anekal became part of Mysore.\n\nAnekal is located at . It has an average elevation of 915 metres (3001 feet).\n\n India census, Anekal had a population of 44,260. Males constitute 52 percent of the population and females 48 percent. Anekal has an average literacy rate of 67 percent, higher than the national average of 59.5 percent, with 56 percent of the males and 44 percent of females literate. 12 percent of the population is under 6 years of age. Anekal in Kannada translates to 'Elephant rock'.\n\nAnekal is one of the growing towns around Bangalore urban district, situated close to major economic sites like Electronic City, Jigani and Hosur. Muthyala Maduvu also known as Pearl Valley is a major tourist spot just a few km from the town and attracts tourists from all over the state. Anekal is also known for its Silk industry and is home to a number of skilled weavers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2094041", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2094041", "title": "Djemna", "text": "Djemna\n\nDjemna ( \"\"), also spelt \"Jemna\", is a small town located in southern Tunisia. The town is part of the Kebili Governorate.\n\nIt is surrounded by the Tunisian Sahara. The city is known by its A'in (العين in Arabic) which is a source of healthy water.\n\nDjemna is one of the biggest producers of dates or deglets in Tunisia.\n\nDjemna contains one of the oldest libraries in Tunisia (located in the old mosque). Djemna also contains the south scientific center of the City of Sciences.\n\nOnly a little minority still live in the town. The majority live outside Tunisia (mainly France and Germany).\n"}
{"id": "2094044", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2094044", "title": "Power of a point", "text": "Power of a point\n\nIn elementary plane geometry, the power of a point is a real number \"h\" that reflects the relative distance of a given point from a given circle. Specifically, the power of a point P with respect to a circle \"O\" of radius \"r\" is defined by (Figure 1).\n\nwhere \"s\" is the distance between P and the center O of the circle. By this definition, points inside the circle have negative power, points outside have positive power, and points on the circle have zero power. For external points, the power equals the square of the length of a tangent from the point to the circle. The power of a point is also known as the point's circle power or the power of a circle with respect to the point.\n\nThe power of point P \"(see in Figure 1)\" can be defined equivalently as the product of distances from the point P to the two intersection points of any ray emanating from P. For example, in Figure 1, a ray emanating from P intersects the circle in two points, M and N, whereas a tangent ray intersects the circle in one point T; the horizontal ray from P intersects the circle at A and B, the endpoints of the diameter. Their respective products of distances are equal to each other and to the power of point P in that circle\n\nThis equality is sometimes known as the \"\"secant-tangent theorem\"\", \"\"intersecting chords theorem\"\", or the \"\"power-of-a-point theorem\"\".\n\nThe power of a point is used in many geometrical definitions and proofs. For example, the radical axis of two given circles is the straight line consisting of points that have equal power to both circles. For each point on this line, there is a unique circle centered on that point that intersects both given circles orthogonally; equivalently, tangents of equal length can be drawn from that point to both given circles. Similarly, the radical center of three circles is the unique point with equal power to all three circles. There exists a unique circle, centered on the radical center, that intersects all three given circles orthogonally, equivalently, tangents drawn from the radical center to all three circles have equal length. The power diagram of a set of circles divides the plane into regions within which the circle minimizing the power is constant.\n\nMore generally, French mathematician Edmond Laguerre defined the power of a point with respect to any algebraic curve in a similar way.\n\nFor a point P outside the circle, the power \"h\" equals \"R\", the square of the radius \"R\" of a new circle centered on P that intersects the given circle at right angles, i.e., orthogonally (Figure 2). If the two circles meet at right angles at a point T, then radii drawn to T from P and from O, the center of the given circle, likewise meet at right angles (blue line segments in Figure 2). Therefore, the radius line segment of each circle is tangent to the other circle. These line segments form a right triangle with the line segment connecting O and P. Therefore, by the Pythagorean theorem,\n\nwhere \"s\" is again the distance from the point P to the center O of the given circle (solid black in Figure 2).\n\nThis construction of an orthogonal circle is useful in understanding the radical axis of two circles, and the radical center of three circles. The point T can be constructed—and, thereby, the radius \"R\" and the power \"h\" found geometrically—by finding the intersection of the given circle with a semicircle (red in Figure 2) centered on the midpoint of O and P and passing through both points. It can also be shown that the point Q is the inverse of P with respect to the given circle.\n\nThe \"power of a point theorem\", due to Jakob Steiner, states that for any line through \"A\" intersecting a circle \"c\" in points \"P\" and \"Q\", the power of the point with respect to the circle \"c\" is given up to a sign by the product\n\nof the lengths of the segments from \"A\" to \"P\" and \"A\" to \"Q\", with a positive sign if \"A\" is outside the circle and a negative sign otherwise: if \"A\" is on the circle, the product is zero. In the limiting case, when the line is tangent to the circle, \"P\" = \"Q\", and the result is immediate from the Pythagorean theorem.\n\nIn the other two cases, when \"A\" is inside the circle, or \"A\" is outside the circle, the power of a point theorem has two corollaries.\n\n\nThe power of a point is a special case of the Darboux product between two circles, which is given by\nwhere \"A\" and \"A\" are the centers of the two circles and \"r\" and \"r\" are their radii. The power of a point arises in the special case that one of the radii is zero.\n\nIf the two circles are orthogonal, the Darboux product vanishes.\n\nIf the two circles intersect, then their Darboux product is\n\nwhere \"φ\" is the angle of intersection.\n\nLaguerre defined the power of a point \"P\" with respect to an algebraic curve of degree \"n\" to be the product of the distances from the point to the intersections of a circle through the point with the curve, divided by the \"n\"th power of the diameter \"d\". Laguerre showed that this number is independent of the diameter . In the case when the algebraic curve is a circle this is not quite the same as the power of a point with respect to a circle defined in the rest of this article, but differs from it by a factor of \"d\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2094047", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2094047", "title": "Jamie Bamber", "text": "Jamie Bamber\n\nJamie St John Bamber Griffith (born 3 April 1973) is an English/Irish/American actor, known for his roles as Lee Adama in \"Battlestar Galactica\" and Detective Sergeant in the ITV series \"\". He also had a supporting role in the \"Hornblower\" series and was a regular on the British series \"Ultimate Force\" and \"Peak Practice\". In 2013, Bamber starred in the TNT medical drama \"Monday Mornings\", and in 2014, in the Sky 1 drama \"The Smoke\".\n\nJamie Bamber holds citizenship in Britain, Ireland, and the United States through his American father and Irish mother. \n\nBamber has five brothers and one sister, actress Anastasia Griffith.\n\nBamber was educated at St Paul's School in London, and graduated with a first in Modern Languages (Italian and French) from St John's College, Cambridge, before attending and graduating from the London Academy of Music and Dramatic Art. He is fluent in both languages, having spent part of his childhood in Paris. Bamber appeared in the 1994 student film \"Shifting Sands\".\n\nBeginning in 2003, Bamber starred as Lee 'Apollo' Adama in the re-imagined \"Battlestar Galactica\" that started as a miniseries and served as a backdoor pilot for the 2004 television series on the US Sci Fi Channel (now Syfy). The show received critical acclaim and received a Peabody Award plus a number of nominations in its four-season run; Bamber was nominated for a Saturn Award for Best Supporting Actor on Television for \"Battlestar Galactica\" in 2004.\n\nIn the role of Lee Adama, Londoner Bamber speaks with an American accent which is frequently cited for its accuracy; he credits being exposed to his father's American accent from childhood. He also darkened his hair, in an effort to more closely resemble Edward James Olmos, who plays his character's father. Reciprocally, Olmos wore contact lenses with blue irises to match Bamber's eyes.\n\nBamber wrote the foreword for Titan Books' \"Battlestar Galactica: The Official Companion Season Three\" by David Bassom. Of the show's dramatic resonance, he said: \n\n... that's what good drama lets us do. It allows us to see and to feel things we otherwise would not. And great drama allows us to do that on every level: the psychological, the personal and the political. I am proud to say that in the pared down world of Battlestar Galactica there is no plot, no character and no relationship that does not breathe the oxygen of all three levels at once.\n\nBamber is also well known for his role as DS , the impulsive younger partner of veteran detective DS (Bradley Walsh) on \"\" for the show's first five series, from 2009 to 2011.\n\nHe played Lieutenant Archibald \"Archie\" Kennedy in the popular ITV series \"Hornblower\", appearing in five of the eight television films in which Kennedy (rising in ranks from midshipman to lieutenant) has a much expanded role from that essayed in C.S. Forester's novels. Bamber also appeared as a trainee doctor in the final series of long running ITV soap \"Peak Practice\", and portrayed an SAS officer in \"Ultimate Force\"; it was on a break from the latter, which he subsequently revealed as a job that he was not entirely happy with, that he traveled to Los Angeles and read for \"Battlestar Galactica\".\n\nBamber guest starred in the second season premiere of Joss Whedon's \"Dollhouse\" where his character is wed to Echo (played by Eliza Dushku) during one of her missions. In the BBC's \"Outcasts\", Bamber portrayed a hot-tempered expeditionary leader amongst colonists of a distant planet in the late 21st century; though he had been offered a larger part in the series, he elected to take the supporting role in part because he was wary of following up \"Battlestar Galactica\" with another sci-fi series that bore a few similarities. Other TV series in which he has made guest appearances include \"\", \"NCIS\", \"House\", \"Cold Case\", \"Ghost Whisperer\", \"The Last Detective\", \"Body of Proof\", \"Perception\", \"Rizzoli & Isles\" and the HBO miniseries \"Band of Brothers\".\n\nHe played the role of detective Caolán Longstreet in \"17th Precinct\", a pilot by \"Galactica\" creator Ronald D. Moore described as a police drama which takes place in a world governed by magic. The pilot was not picked up by NBC for the fall 2011 season; it would have also re-united him with his \"Galactica\" co-stars James Callis and Tricia Helfer.\nBamber starred as neurosurgeon Dr. Tyler Wilson in \"Monday Mornings\", the David E. Kelley-produced series for TNT, co-executive-produced by Sanjay Gupta and based on his novel of the same name. The series debuted in February 2013; it was cancelled after one season. In 2014 he played the lead role of Kev Allison, a London firefighter struggling to keep his personal and professional relationships together after a life-altering accident on the job, in \"The Smoke\", a Kudos Television drama for Sky1 in the UK.\n\nHe currently has supporting roles in two UK series: \"Marcella\", returning for a second series in 2018; and \"Fearless\". He also plays a recurring role in the 2018 STARZ series \"Counterpart\".\n\nBamber played the starring role in the 2008 film \"\", a direct-to-DVD sequel to 2006's \"Pulse\". Earlier he starred in \"The Devil's Tattoo\" (known as \"Ghost Rig\" in the US) along with Kerry Norton, who was later to become his wife.\n\nHe made his French-language acting debut in 2012 in Martin Valente's , portraying the American fiancé of the female lead played by French pop star . According to Bamber, his character is loosely based on Andre Agassi. Most recently, he co-starred in the 2017 French romantic comedy alongside and .\n\nIn May 2011, Bamber completed filming \"John Doe: Vigilante\", an Australian production directed by Kelly Dolen. The film was released in the United States on 21 March 2014.\n\nOn 9 June 2015, \"Variety\" announced that Jamie Bamber, Kellan Lutz, Jesse Williams, and Jess Weixler had joined the cast of a thriller film titled \"Money\", directed by Martin Rosete and produced by Atit Shah.\n\nBamber's stage appearances include Prince Hal in \"Henry IV Parts 1\" and \"2\" at the Bristol Old Vic in 2002; and in 2005 he appeared as Mephistopheles in \"Dr. Faustus\"; at the Liverpool Playhouse.\n\nHe has also acted in radio serials; major roles include Sebastian Flyte in \"Brideshead Revisited\" and Philip in \"Where Angels Fear to Tread\" for BBC Radio 4.\n\nBamber is married to English actress and singer Kerry Norton who played Ishay, Doc Cottle's assistant on \"Battlestar Galactica\". The couple have three daughters: Isla and identical twins Darcy and Ava.\n\n"}
{"id": "2094050", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2094050", "title": "Gerhard Tersteegen", "text": "Gerhard Tersteegen\n\nGerhard Tersteegen (November 25, 1697 – April 3, 1769), was a German Reformed religious writer and hymnist.\n\nTersteegen was born in Moers, at that time the principal city of a county belonging to the House of Orange-Nassau that formed a Protestant enclave in the midst of a Catholic country.\n\nAfter being educated at the gymnasium of his native town, Tersteegen was for some years apprenticed to a merchant. He soon came under the influence of Wilhelm Hoffman, a Pietistic revivalist, and devoted himself to writing and public speaking, withdrawing in 1728 from all secular pursuits and giving himself entirely to religious work. He also had a great influence on radical Pietism.\n\nHis writings include a collection of hymns, such as \"Das geistliche Blumengärtlein\" [The spiritual flower-garden) of 1729 (new edition, Stuttgart, 1868), a volume of \"Gebete\" (prayers), and another of \"Briefe\" (letters), besides translations of the writings of the French mystics and of Julian of Norwich. He died in Mülheim, North Rhine-Westphalia.\n\nTersteegen was well known for his deeply spiritual sermons. People crowded into his home to hear him speak of the things of God. Some of his sermons have been translated into English, including Godliness, and Warnings and Admonitions. Additional sermons can be found in Samuel Jackson's \"Spiritual Crumbs from the Master's Table\" and H. E. Govan's \"Gerhard Tersteegen: Life and Selections\".\n\nTersteegen's poetry is beautiful and spiritual. An example from his hymns:\n\nHymns by Tersteegen were printed in several hymnals internationally, for example in the Danish \"Roskilde Konvents Psalmebog\" 1855, and later in \"Psalmebog 1912\", with one hymn, \"Kom, lad trøstig vandre\" (No. 564).\n\nIn Sweden, a popular songbook with spiritual songs and prayers by Thomas à Kempis named \"Lilla Kempis. Korta Språk och Böner, till uppbyggelse för de enfaldiga\" (4th edition 1876) contained 19 hymns by Tersteegen.\n\nIn The Church Hymn book 1872 he is represented with four hymns: \"God calling yet\" (\"Gott rufet noch\", 1730, No. 655), \"Thou hidden love of God\" (\"Verborgne Gottesliebe, Du\", 1731 No. 744), \"Something every heart is loving\" (1730, No. 782) and \"O thou, to whose all-searching sight\" (1731, No. 927).\n\nIn The English Hymnal with Tunes, 1933, he is represented with the procession hymn \"Gott ist gegenwärtig\", in the English translation by John Wesley as \"Lo! God is here!\" (No. 637). Wesley translated several of Tersteegen's texts.\n\nTersteegen corresponded with many people. He was always practical and sought to help people learn how to live in God's presence. Among the more fundamental principles he espoused were the following:\n\nHere are samples of his \"reflections\":\n\nTersteegen was ever hopeful of God's favor, as attested in the following:\n\nHe also recognized that blessings come packaged as trials:\n\nTersteegen was adamant that all spiritual growth and joy was centered in a relationship with Jesus Christ. He also realized that understanding and coming into a relationship with Christ was progressive in nature, as delineated in the following:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2094062", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2094062", "title": "1990–91 NHL season", "text": "1990–91 NHL season\n\nThe 1990–91 NHL season was the 74th season of the National Hockey League. The Stanley Cup winners were the Pittsburgh Penguins, who won the best of seven series 4–2 against the Minnesota North Stars. This was the last NHL season to end in May. \nAt meetings in Florida on December 6, 1990, the NHL Board of Governors awarded provisional franchises to groups from Ottawa and Tampa. The Ottawa franchise marked a return to one of the original cities of the NHL, while Tampa meant the first franchise in the sunbelt state of Florida. In a later book published by NHL president Gil Stein, Stein revealed that the two groups were the only ones of the applicants who agreed to the $50 million expansion fee without question. The Ottawa Senators and Tampa Bay Lightning began play in the 1992–93 season.\n\n\"Note: W = Wins, L = Losses, T = Ties, GF= Goals For, GA = Goals Against, Pts = Points\"\n\n\n\nThe North Stars defeated the Edmonton Oilers to become the first Norris Division team to appear in the Stanley Cup Finals since the 1981 realignment. At the time a record of 92 playoff games were played, and for the first time since the 1973 playoffs, no team was swept in a playoff series.\n\n\"Note: GP = Games played; G = Goals; A = Assists; Pts = Points, PIM = Penalties in minutes, PPG = Powerplay goals, SHG = Shorthanded goals, GWG = Game winning goals\"\n\n\"GP = Games played; Min = Minutes played; W = Wins; L = Losses; T = Ties; SO = Shutouts; GAA = Goals against average\"\n\n\n\n\nThe following is a list of players of note who played their first NHL game in 1990–91 (listed with their first team, asterisk(*) marks debut in playoffs):\n\n\nThe following is a list of players of note that played their last game in the NHL in 1990–91 (listed with their last team):\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2094068", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2094068", "title": "A Wedding (opera)", "text": "A Wedding (opera)\n\nA Wedding is a comic opera based on Robert Altman's 1978 film \"A Wedding\" and was composed by William Bolcom with a libretto written by Robert Altman and Arnold Weinstein.\n\nThe Lyric Opera of Chicago commissioned the work, and the opera was first performed there on December 11, 2004. The premiere had stage direction by Altman and was conducted by Dennis Russell Davies. The film's 48 characters were trimmed down to 19 on stage.\n\nSince the premiere, \"A Wedding\" has seen performances at Indiana University's Jacobs School of Music, the University of Houston's Moores School of Music, University of Nebraska's Glenn Korff School of Music, and the Oberlin Conservatory of Music. It was performed by the Aspen Opera Center for the Aspen Music Festival and School's 2016 summer season.\n\nRecently, the Music Academy of the West commissioned Bolcom to write a chamber version of the opera, with a reduced orchestration. This reorchestration received its premiere on August 8, 2008 in Santa Barbara, California.\n\nIntroduction. Dino and Muffin's wedding ceremony at a church in suburban Chicago.\n\nScene 1. Rita, the wedding organizer, gives orders to the bartenders working at the reception. A mysterious dog barks in the distance.\n\nScene 2. Nettie, the grandmother of the groom, has not attended the ceremony. She is in her bedroom in the family mansion. Her daughter Toni, with husband Jules, appear, followed by her other daughter Victoria with husband Luigi—the parents of the groom—and the unmarried third daughter, Diana. Jules, a physician turned art dealer, examines Nettie with a stethoscope. Victoria, too, is unwell and has missed the ceremony. Diana is in love with Randolph, the butler, who tells her that all the invited guests (some 200 of them) have sent regrets. Nettie closes her eyes and dies. Rita enters and discovers Nettie's death.\n\nScene 3. In the ballroom, the groom's family meets Snooks and Tulip, the parents of the bride, and their older daughter Buffy (a silent role) as well as Tulip's sister Candace. Jules is immediately attracted to Tulip.\n\nScene 4. The women make small talk in the powder room. Victoria's mysterious illness is mentioned again.\n\nScene 5. The men have drinks in the \"grotto,\" Luigi's basement kingdom—a replica of a Roman trattoria. Snooks declines alcohol and tells the story of how he found God (or vice versa).\n\nScene 6. Jules and Toni in Nettie's room; Jules tells his wife that her mother needs rest.\n\nScene 7. In the ballroom. Enter William Williamson, the only guest at the wedding who is not a family member. It turns out that he was hired by Rita to attend the ceremony and shake everyone's hand. Jules discreetly tells Luigi that Nettie has died. The band strikes up a dance. Jules sneaks off to take care of Victoria.\n\nScene 8. Jules gives Victoria, a drug addict, her morphine shot.\n\nScene 9. The dance is in full swing. Buffy—a silent role—indicates to Dino in pantomime that she is pregnant and that he is the father. Jules woos Tulip with an aria about his glamorous art collection, and makes an advance that terrifies the mother of the bride.\n\nScene 10. In the ladies' room, Tulip meets Victoria and notices the sudden change in her demeanor. Left alone, she sings an aria about Jules, who has begun to sweep her off her feet. Jules enters the ladies' room. They agree to have a secret tryst in Tallahassee in two weeks. Tulip sings another aria, \"a woman in love,\" and is almost late for the cutting of the cake.\n\nOverture. The composer writes in the score: \"The orchestra depicts a lone motorcycle coming from far away.\"\n\nScene 1. Enter Breedley, the best man who has missed the wedding because he spent the night in jail. Dino welcomes him and tells him about his predicament with Buffy.\n\nScene 2. In the ballroom, enter Aunt Bea (Nettie's twin sister, played by the same singer). Bea, also late for the ceremony, is an old socialist and shocks everyone with her wedding present, a painting featuring Muffin, the bride, in the nude, surrounded by factories and farms. Williamson, the hired guest, is the only one to defend the picture. Toni and Bea have a heated political argument. Then everyone heads for the cake table. Snooks wants to cover up the painting but Rita intervenes. He wants to punch her but Rita grabs his arm and bends it behind his back.\n\nScene 3. Breedley delivers an outrageous speech at the cake table. Immediately after, he spills the beans about Buffy's pregnancy to Candace, Tulip's sister. Tulip, who has just arrived after seeing Jules in the ladies' room, is horrified by the painting.\n\nScene 4. Luigi, alone in his grotto, feels homesick for Italy. Victoria enters. They reminisce about their past; Luigi doesn't get a chance to tell his wife that her mother has died.\n\nScene 5. Rita calls an emergency because of the appearance of a stranger, who turns out to be Donato, Luigi's brother, who speaks only Italian. Luigi, who has made a pact with his mother-in-law never to let any of his Italian relatives set foot in the house, threatens his brother with a knife. But Jules reminds him that, after Nettie's death, this pact is no longer valid. Luigi suddenly embraces his brother, who pulls a huge mortadella from a package. The two brothers sing a passionate duet in praise of Italian food, joined by the entire party.\n\nScene 6. Toni discovers that her mother is dead. The entire family assembles to hear the news. Aunt Bea, the last to leave the room, bumps into Mr. Williamson. They hit it off...\n\nScene 7. Dino complains to Breedley about how his irresistible charm has gotten him into trouble. Breedley drags his friend, who is completely drunk, into the shower to sober him up. Outside the shower, Muffin sings an aria about how she first met Dino. Rita enters and shows her affection for Muffin in a most inappropriate way. Muffin runs off. We see, through the shower door, Breedley and Dino naked in the shower, Breedley repeatedly trying to get Dino to stand up, and Dino falling down each time. Breedley comes out in a wet towel as Muffin arrives. She goes into the shower; she and Dino kiss.\n\nScene 8. Candace tells Snooks that Buffy is pregnant by Dino. There is a family conference at which Buffy, always in pantomime, reveals that she has slept with an entire military academy. Thus, Dino is not necessarily the father of her child.\n\nScene 9. Outside the mansion, Snooks and Tulip prepare to leave. Tulip says goodbye to Jules, till Tallahassee. An angry confrontation between the bride's and the groom's families is disrupted by the sound of a car crash. Dino's car was in an accident, and apparently the newlyweds were both killed. Brought together by common grief, all sing a chorale. But then, to general consternation, Muffin appears with Dino, freshly out of the shower. It was Breedley who had driven off in Dino's car and crashed it. Snooks, forgetting about his vow, demands champagne. Everyone dances in great joy.\n\nScene 10. Jules and Tulip meet secretly in the ladies' room. Tulip calls off the tryst in Tallahassee. Jules rejoins Victoria to give her one more shot of morphine. Diana goes off with Randolph, the butler.\n\nScene 11. Luigi leaves Victoria to return to Italy with his brother. Everyone says goodbye: \"Weddings are the happiest events, but...when it's over, it gets real sad.\" The mysterious dog returns and wags his tail.\n\n\"A Wedding\" is scored for:\n\n\n\n\nAnthony Tommasini of \"The New York Times\" writes in his review: \"Most composers count themselves lucky to secure even one commission from a major opera company. William Bolcom has had three in relatively quick order from one America's leading companies, the Lyric Opera of Chicago. The first resulted in the intense and gothic 'McTeague,' of 1992. Then came \"A View From the Bridge\" in 1999, a work Mr. Bolcom described as his journey into \"Brooklyn verismo\". On Saturday night the Lyric Opera presented the world premiere of \"A Wedding\", adapted from Robert Altman's 1978 film. I wish I could report that the Lyric Opera's admirable faith in Mr. Bolcom, a prodigiously skilled composer, has emboldened him. But musically \"A Wedding\" plays it safe. In some ways it is the least compelling of the three works, each written with Mr. Bolcom's longtime lyricist, Arnold Weinstein, as librettist.\n\n\"A Wedding\" is a 1978 comedy film directed by Robert Altman, with an ensemble cast that included Desi Arnaz, Jr., Carol Burnett, Paul Dooley, Vittorio Gassman, Mia Farrow, Lillian Gish, Geraldine Chaplin, Howard Duff, Nina Van Pallandt, Amy Stryker, and Pat McCormick. The story is told in the trademark Altman style, with multiple plots and overlapping humorous dialogue. The story takes place in a single day during a lavish wedding that merges a nouveau riche Southern family with an established wealthy Chicago family having possible ties to organized crime.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2094077", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2094077", "title": "Narses (disambiguation)", "text": "Narses (disambiguation)\n\nNarses (478-573) was a general under the Emperor Justinian I who led the reconquest of Italy.\n\nNarses may also refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2094079", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2094079", "title": "Dennis E. Nolan", "text": "Dennis E. Nolan\n\nDennis Edward Nolan (April 22, 1872 – February 24, 1956) was a career officer with the United States Army. He distinguished himself by heading the first modern American military combat intelligence function during World War I. Nolan served as the head football coach at the United States Military Academy in 1902, compiling a record of 6–1–1.\n\nBorn in Akron, New York, outside of Buffalo, New York, Nolan was the son of an Irish immigrant. He graduated from the United States Military Academy in 1896.\n\nNolan was commissioned a second lieutenant and joined the Third Infantry. He served with the Sanitary Corps, during the Spanish–American War.\n\nIn 1902, Nolan coached the Army football team to a record of 6 wins, 1 loss and 1 draw. \"The New York Times\" of 1930s noted that many contemporary generals (Nolan, Leon Kromer, Malin Craig, Paul Bunker) were connected by past football experience at West Point.\n\nDuring World War I, Nolan organized the Intelligence Section for the American Expeditionary Forces' general headquarters. Starting in August 1920, Nolan, then a brigadier general, served for a year as the War Department Chief of Military Intelligence Division.\n\nFrom 1927 to 1931, Nolan was commander of Fifth Corps Area, headquartered at Fort Hayes at Columbus, Ohio, one of and geographically the largest of nine corps areas established in the continental United States for the administration of the regular army and reserves by the National Defense Act of 1920. As a corps area commander, he oversaw peacetime training for Army Reserves and the National Guard. In time of war, the corps areas would theoretically have ready made corps combat command structures in place to administer regiments of Regular Army, Reserve and National Guard. During the lean post-war and Great Depression years of military spending, he as well other corps commanders were expected to maintain good relations with the public and civilian officials.\n\nNolan accepted his final posting as commanding general of Second Corps Area, in charge of army units and facilities in New York, New Jersey, Delaware and Puerto Rico on December 1, 1931. On October 1, 1933, First United States Army was reestablished, co-located and co-staffed with Second Corps Area at Fort Jay, Governors Island, New York. Nolan became First Army's first peace time commander. Nolan ended his active duty army career upon retirement on April 30, 1936.\n\nNolan received the Distinguished Service Cross, the Army Distinguished Service Medal, and two Silver Star Citations. He also received the Croix de Guerre with Palm and the Medal of Solidaridad from Panama. He was made a Companion of the Order of the Bath, a Commander of the Legion of Honour, and a Commander of the Order of the Crown, as well as appointments to the Order of the Crown of Italy and National Order of Merit of Chile.\n\nNolan married Julia Grant Sharp on August 21, 1901. She was the daughter of Alexander Sharp and Ellen \"Nellie\" Dent. Nellie Dent Sharp was the sister of Ulysses S. Grant's wife Julia Boggs Dent. In addition to her aunt Julia, Julia Sharp's family included uncle Frederick Tracy Dent. Dennis and Julia Nolan were the parents of two children: Dennis and Ellen Honora.\n\nNolan died on February 24, 1956 in New York City, and was buried in Arlington National Cemetery. General Nolan is a member of the Military Intelligence Hall of Fame.\n"}
{"id": "2094081", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2094081", "title": "Five County Stadium", "text": "Five County Stadium\n\nFive County Stadium is a baseball stadium located in Zebulon, North Carolina; a suburb of Raleigh. It is the home of the Carolina Mudcats of the Carolina League. The ballpark, which was opened in 1991 and extensively renovated in 1999, has a capacity of 6,500.\n\nThe stadium's name comes from its location – the stadium property is located in Wake County, but it is close to the intersection of the county lines between Wake, Franklin, Nash and Johnston Counties. Wilson County is also in the general area of the stadium.\n\nUS-264 passes by the stadium at a generally northwest-to-southeast angle (behind left and center fields), while State Highway 39 skirts the east side of the property (right field). Parking lots surround the field on the other sides, and a large grass field, often used as a campground, lies behind home plate.\n\nWhen Columbus Mudcats owner Steve Bryant moved the club to North Carolina in 1991, he wanted a new facility that was deemed to be outside the territories of other minor league clubs in the state (including the Carolina League's Greensboro Hornets, which he also owned) while also being easily accessible by the public. A site was chosen in Zebulon, which was as close to Raleigh as the Mudcats could get without infringing on the territorial rights of the Durham Bulls. To construct the ballpark quickly, the builders opted for metal seating rather than the traditional concrete. The 1999 renovation replaced most of the metal with concrete.\n\nThe Double-A Mudcats moved to Pensacola in 2011, and the Carolina League's Kinston Indians moved to Zebulon and took the Mudcats name.\n\n"}
{"id": "2094085", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2094085", "title": "WFRV-TV", "text": "WFRV-TV\n\nWFRV-TV, virtual channel 5 (UHF digital channel 22), is a CBS-affiliated television station licensed to Green Bay, Wisconsin, United States. The station is owned by Nexstar Media Group. WFRV's studios are located on East Mason Street in Green Bay, and its transmitter is located north of Morrison. On cable, the station is available on Charter Spectrum channel 6 and in high definition on digital channel 1006.\n\nWJMN-TV (channel 3) in Escanaba, Michigan operates as a semi-satellite of WFRV, serving the central Upper Peninsula of Michigan. Master control and some internal operations originate from WFRV's Green Bay facilities; WJMN does maintain studios, sales offices and engineering operations in Marquette.\n\nThe station signed on the air on December 10, 1953 on UHF channel 42 from Neenah as ABC affiliate WNAM-TV, owned by the Neenah-Menasha Broadcasting Company. At the time it served as a sister station to the radio station with the same call sign. On December 31, 1954, the vice-president WNAM-TV announced that it would be temporarily ceasing broadcast operations on January 2, 1955 pending a merger with Valley Telecasting Company, which had owned a transmitter construction permit to build WFRV-TV on VHF channel 5 in Green Bay since March 1954 but had not yet acted on the permit. The pause in broadcasting allowed the newly merged company to lease and move into unused FM studio and broadcast facilities of WJPG-FM in De Pere (the license of which was sold to the Norbertine Fathers and used to launch what is today WIXX), and to set up microwave relays between the WNAM (Neenah) studio and the WFRV (Green Bay) one. The new station and facility went online with 100,000 watts of power on May 20, 1955 as WFRV-TV, an ABC and DuMont affiliate, presenting pre-recorded \"programs on film\". Its first live broadcast was scheduled for June 1, 1955 at 4:45 PM.\n\nIn 1959, it changed its network affiliation to NBC (in 1958, the station was also part of the short-lived Badger Television Network alongside Milwaukee's WISN-TV and Madison's WKOW-TV). WFRV's early claims to fame included being the first television station in Northeastern Wisconsin to broadcast in color in 1958 (doing so after joining NBC), the first station to cover a live lunar eclipse in 1959 (a studio camera was wheeled to the station parking lot and aimed at the moon), and Green Bay's first color local news broadcasts (beginning in 1965).\n\nIn the mid-1960s, WFRV was acquired by the Norton Group, a company owned by the Norton family of Kentucky, who also owned Louisville's WAVE (the Norton Group would change its name to Orion Broadcasting by 1969). One of the Norton Group's early decisions was to move WFRV's transmitter, which was still located further south of Green Bay and closer to the Fox Valley (a legacy from its original days in Neenah) and as such put WFRV at a disadvantage to other Green Bay stations. The Nortons would gain permission from the Federal Communications Commission to move channel 5's transmitter to Scray's Hill in the Ledgeview section of Glenmore (located just south of Green Bay), one of the highest geographical points in the area and the longtime home to other Green Bay broadcast transmitters.\n\nOn October 7, 1969, WFRV expanded into the Upper Peninsula of Michigan by signing on semi-satellite WJMN-TV in Escanaba. WJMN's creation was the result of The Norton Group's earlier agreement with the FCC to move WFRV's tower, as the station had to address short-spacing issues with another station on VHF channel 5, Chicago's WMAQ-TV (every analog channel allocation in the Green Bay and Wausau media markets was shared by a Chicago television station). As part of the agreement to transmit from Glenmore, Orion Broadcasting launched WJMN so that WFRV's service to the U.P. and far Northeastern Wisconsin could continue, and so that a second station in central Upper Michigan could be added (before WJMN, WLUC-TV was the only commercial station serving the U.P.).\n\nOrion Broadcasting would merge with Cosmos Broadcasting (a subsidiary of the Liberty Corporation) in 1981. Two years later, in April 1983, WFRV would affiliate with ABC for the second time (NBC would return to WLUK-TV, channel 11). Later in the 1980s, WFRV was sold to Midwest Radio and Television, owned by the Murphy and McNally families, who also owned the WCCO stations in Minneapolis–Saint Paul. The Murphys and McNallys would announce a sale of Midwest to CBS in the summer of 1991; the sale was completed in early 1992. CBS had been affiliated with WBAY-TV (channel 2) for almost 40 years, and was unwilling to sever ties with one of its strongest and longest-standing affiliates. It put WFRV and WJMN on the market, but was unable to find a buyer. However, in 1992, the FCC relaxed its ownership restrictions, leading CBS to keep WFRV and move its programming there. On March 15 of that year, WFRV became become a CBS owned-and-operated station, with the ABC affiliation moving to WBAY. This swap would make WFRV one of the few stations in the United States to be affiliated with all of the Big Three television networks (ABC, NBC, and CBS) during its lifetime. With it, the station became the unofficial home station for the Green Bay Packers (succeeding WBAY in that role); the station would only serve in this role for two seasons, 1992 and 1993, when the majority of games moved to WGBA for one season in 1994 (with Fox's acquisition of the rights to broadcast National Football Conference games), then to WLUK-TV the next year in 1995 (when it became a Fox station; WLUK-TV has served as the Packers' unofficial home station since). Today, the station airs at least two Packers games each season when the team plays an AFC team at Lambeau Field, or, starting in 2014, with the institution of 'cross-flex' rules, games that are moved from WLUK to WFRV (except for Fox's current run of \"Thursday Night Football\").\n\nBy 2001, WFRV would change its longtime Orion Broadcasting-era logo, used since the mid-1970s, for an earlier version of its current logo. One year later, in 2002, WFRV would become the first station in the Green Bay market to begin broadcasting a digital signal. By 2003, WFRV would begin identifying itself as \"CBS 5\", in line with other CBS-owned stations; the station also adopted a green-and-gold logo to reflect its connection to the Green Bay Packers (WFRV would begin airing Packers preseason broadcasts in 2003). The station's current blue-and-yellow logo and graphic scheme was unveiled on July 10, 2006, along with a new news set to coincide with the return to the station of former reporter/anchor Tammy Elliott.\n\nThe week of April 16–18, 2007, Liberty Media (a media company unrelated to The Liberty Corporation, and a spin-off of TCI, an American cable-television group) completed an exchange transaction with CBS Corporation pursuant to which Liberty Media exchanged 7.6 million shares of CBS Class B common stock valued at $239 million for a subsidiary of CBS that held WFRV and approximately $170 million in cash. As part of the transaction, Liberty Media acquired WFRV and WJMN, becoming the only over-the-air television properties to be owned by the company. In May 2007, operations of the stations' websites would move from CBS Television Stations Digital Media Group to a redesigned site powered by Inergize Digital Media (then a subsidiary of Clear Channel Communications, now a division of Nexstar). By summer 2007, WFRV phased out the \"CBS 5\" branding, slowly transitioning to simply \"Channel 5,\" its branding before 2003.\n\nWFRV-TV shut down its analog signal, over VHF channel 5, at midnight (occurring within a commercial break during \"The Late Late Show with Craig Ferguson\") on February 17, 2009, the original target date in which full-power television stations in the United States were to transition from analog to digital broadcasts under federal mandate (which was later pushed back to June 12, 2009). The station's digital signal remained on its pre-transition UHF channel 39. Through the use of PSIP, digital television receivers display the station's virtual channel as its former VHF analog channel 5. As part of the SAFER Act, WFRV kept its analog signal on the air until March 3 to inform viewers of the digital television transition through a loop of public service announcements from the National Association of Broadcasters.\n\nOn April 7, 2011, Nexstar Broadcasting Group announced it would acquire WFRV and WJMN-TV from Liberty Media. The $20 million deal was approved by the FCC on June 28, 2011 and closed three days later on July 1, when Nexstar tapped Joseph Denk to become vice president and general manager of both stations; Denk replaced Perry Kidder, who announced his retirement shortly after the sale was announced (Kidder had spent 37 years with WFRV and WJMN). The website URL and operations of WFRV and WJMN also changed to Nexstar's in-house format (they had been maintained by Broadcast Interactive Media since April 2010); in the case of WFRV, the station's main web address changed from \"wfrv.com\" to \"wearegreenbay.com\" (the former has been retained to discourage cybersquatting).\n\nOn January 23, 2012, WFRV was rebranded as \"Local 5\", a branding style which originated with Post-Newsweek Stations (now Graham Media Group) and which has since been adapted by several of Nexstar's operations. WJMN continued to be branded as \"Channel 3\" until it launched its in-house news operation in April 2014, as most stories in WFRV's newscasts were not local to Upper Michigan.\n\nOn January 27, 2016, Media General announced that it had entered into a definitive agreement to be acquired by Nexstar. Because Media General owns WBAY, the new company was required to sell that station or WFRV to another owner. On June 3, 2016, it was announced that Nexstar would keep WFRV and its Quad Cities sister station WHBF-TV and sell Media General stations WBAY and its Quad Cities sister station KWQC-TV to Gray Television for $270 million.\n\nThe station launched their second subchannel on September 1, 2016 with Bounce TV as part of a group deal made between Bounce TV's parent company and Nexstar (Bounce was the only Katz network available to WFRV in Green Bay, as Scripps' WGBA-TV and WACY-TV carry Katz's other three networks as subchannels under a previous agreement, which will likely be maintained as Scripps purchased Katz at the start of October 2017).\n\nOn September 19, 2019, Nexstar closed their merger with Tribune Broadcasting, giving WFRV its first co-owned Milwaukee sister station in Fox affiliate WITI (channel 6), which already carries \"Locker Room\" from WFRV, though the pair-up was short-lived with Fox Television Stations re-acquiring WITI as part of Nexstar and Fox exchanging several stations in a number of NFC markets at the start of March 2020.\n\nThe station launched a third subchannel on April 24, 2020, affiliated with the Justice Network.\n\nThe station's digital signal is multiplexed:\nFrom 2003 to 2011, WFRV carried Green Bay Packers pre-season games and related official team programming, with the station branding as \"Your Official Packers Station.\" Packer-related programming on WFRV has included \"Larry McCarren's Locker Room\", a Monday night program which featured WFRV sports director and former Packer lineman Larry McCarren analyzing the previous day's Packer game and interviewing with the team's players and staff. In March 2012, the Packers entered into an agreement with Journal Broadcast Group to air Packers pre-season games and official programming on Journal-owned WGBA-TV (channel 26), making it the \"official Packers station\" in Green Bay;\n\nWFRV-TV presently broadcasts 35½ hours of locally produced newscasts each week (with 5½ hours on weekdays, one hour on Saturdays and a half-hour on Sundays). In addition to its main studios on East Mason Street in Green Bay, WFRV also operates a Fox Valley bureau in Little Chute, located on Patriot Drive near US 41 freeway. The Valley bureau also has a second Doppler weather radar tower to provide extended radar coverage for the station's weather operation.\n\nThe audio feed of WFRV's 5 and 6 p.m. newscasts are simulcast on radio stations in the Fond du Lac-Oshkosh areas (on WRPN, 1600 AM) as well as in the Marinette-Menominee area (on WHYB, 103.7 FM).\n\nOn June 23, 2011, after a six-month upgrade process, WFRV became the first station in the Green Bay market to begin broadcasting its local newscasts in high definition; the changeover to HD included an upgrade in the \"Storm Team 5\" weather technology, including real-time street-level radar. In January 2012, the station launched a new graphics package that is designed solely for 16:9 presentation in mind, cutting off portions of text in 4:3 presentation.\n\nBeginning in September 2012, WFRV would greatly expand the number of hours of news content, including the addition of an hour-long afternoon newscast at 4 p.m. and the expansion of its 6 p.m. newscast from 30 minutes to one hour; the 6 p.m. newscast is reduced to 30 minutes during the NFL season on nights when WFRV airs Packers-related programming.\n\nOn December 31, 2012, the station's morning newscast \"Local 5 First News\" was retitled to \"Local 5 This Morning\", with a new anchor team and a set used specifically for the morning program. The new version of the program takes cues from \"CBS This Morning\", including a local-specific \"Eye Opener\" segment at the start of each half-hour.\n\nOn September 2, 2013, WFRV launched an hour-long local mid-morning program \"Local 5 Live!\", which is a mix of advertorial and news content. \"Live! with Kelly and Michael\", which had aired on the station in the 9 a.m. timeslot dating back to the late 1980s while still an ABC affiliate, moved to WLUK in the same timeslot.\n\nFor most of its history, WFRV-TV's newscasts have been competitive with longtime leader WBAY-TV and runner-up WLUK-TV in most time slots although WFRV's newscasts have usually been in third place. However, since Nexstar purchased the station in mid-2011, the station has seen heavy turnover, with many veteran staff members, including Tammy Elliott, Dana Tyler, Olga Halaburda, Ryan Popkey and Larry McCarren departing the station for other opportunities. Anchors, especially on the weekends, are working longer shifts, and even doing both the morning and evening newscasts, and Nexstar has dropped most syndicated programming outside the 3 p.m. hour (currently containing \"The Mel Robbins Show\"), which caused ratings problems that outside of \"Oprah\" and \"Live!\", had been a problem with WFRV's schedule dating back to the late 1990s.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2094087", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2094087", "title": "Société de transport de Laval", "text": "Société de transport de Laval\n\nSociété de transport de Laval (STL) is the public transit system in the city of Laval, Quebec, Canada. It was founded in June 1971 as the \"Commission de transport de la Ville de Laval (CTL)\". STL came about in 1984.\n\nIt serves the growing suburban areas of Laval, North of Montreal.\n\nA proposal to convert some of STL's most heavily used routes to electric trolleybuses was studied in detail in 2009–2010, funded jointly by STL and Hydro-Québec, but in autumn 2010 STL decided to postpone making a decision on trolleybuses until at least 2011, to allow further study of rechargeable electric buses first.\n\nThe STL runs 40 routes, including the former AMT's, now STL's 902 Express Route in Laval. Most bus routes end at metro stations Cartier and/or Montmorency of the Orange Line. All buses go to at least one metro, except for lines 66, 402 & 404. There is now one night route on the STL, route 2. In addition some of the daytime bus routes go up to 3:30 a.m. The STL also operates 6 collective taxi routes (T03 - along Saulnier Street, T07 - Rangs Haut-St-François & St-Elzéar sectors, T10 - along av. des Perron, T11 - in Fabreville, T12 - in NW Chomedey and T14 from Laval West to Saint Eustache).\n\nIn addition, the STL has added 2 trains buses. The 402, which services residents in Fabreville, Laval West and Sainte-Dorothée. Its intention is to allow users to reach the Sainte-Dorothée train station. The 404, which also services residents in Sainte-Dorothée, allows users to reach the train station, which is operated by the RTM, to travel to Montreal. Both train-bus routes were inaugurated on April 28, 2007, the same day the Laval Metro was officially opened.\n\nThe Montreal Metro is extended into Laval, and connects with STL at three stations:\n\n\nSTL also connects with Exo commuter trains at:\n\n\n\nThere are also bus transfer facilities at:\n\nThere are also connections to other transit services in the region:\n\n\n denotes Wheelchair\n\n On Order (units)\n\nRetired fleet systems\n\nIn conjunction with Hydro-Québec and the provincial government, STL is considering the idea of constructing a trolleybus system in Laval. A feasibility study began in spring 2009 and was completed in autumn 2010. Proponents of the idea, including Laval Mayor Gilles Vaillancourt, have said that replacing diesel buses with trolleybuses would bring a significant reduction in harmful pollutants but would be far less costly than a tramway (streetcar) alternative being favoured by Montreal and also be less disruptive to existing streets.\n\nIn discussing the Laval study, some provincial officials indicated they would like to see transport agencies in other major Quebec cities also consider installing trolleybus networks. On completion of the study, the Laval transit authority decided to experiment with rechargeable battery-powered buses before making a decision on whether to proceed with trolleybuses. Among the points noted in the study's findings were that installing a trolleybus system would require a significant initial capital investment in infrastructure, but that trolleybuses are a technology known to be able to operate reliably in harsh winter temperatures, and it is uncertain whether other types of electric buses would be able to do so.\n\n"}
{"id": "2094089", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2094089", "title": "Benjamin Brafman", "text": "Benjamin Brafman\n\nBenjamin Brafman (born July 21, 1948) is an American criminal defense attorney, the founder of the Manhattan-based firm Brafman & Associates, P.C.. Brafman is known for representing many high-profile defendants, including celebrities, accused Mafia members, and political figures.\n\nBrafman grew up in Brooklyn and Belle Harbor, Queens, a son of Holocaust survivors. He went to a Yeshiva High School and took night classes at Brooklyn College, majoring in anthropology, and graduated with a BA.\n\nBrafman received his J.D. with distinction from Ohio Northern University College of Law. He also has an LL.M. from New York University School of Law. In May 2014, Brafman was awarded an honorary degree by Ohio Northern University College of Law.\n\nAfter graduating from law school, admitted to the New York State Bar in 1975, Brafman worked for a criminal defense firm for two years, then became an Assistant District Attorney in the Manhattan District Attorney's Office. In 1980, Brafman started his own law firm in Manhattan.\n\nBrafman has represented a number of notable figures, including Jacob Arabo, James Patino (who was cleared of all charges in the death of Yusef Hawkins), Peter Gatien, Plaxico Burress, Michael Jackson, Carl Kruger, Charles Kushner, Marvell Scott, Sean Combs (\"Puff Daddy\"), Mafia boss Salvatore \"Sammy the Bull\" Gravano, online gambling figure Jay Cohen, Dominique Strauss-Kahn, Rabbi Menachem Youlus, political pundit Dinesh D'Souza, high-profile attorney Sanford Rubenstein, Martin Shkreli, and Harvey Weinstein.\n\nBrafman slowly established his reputation as a celebrity lawyer through a series of high-profile cases.\n\nBrafman’s profile rose following the acquittal of client Sean \"P. Diddy\" Combs, on 1999 illegal weapons and bribery charges. The criminal charges stemmed from a nightclub brawl, while accompanied by then-girlfriend Jennifer Lopez, and Combs's usual entourage, and was witnessed by over 100 other people. Numerous prosecution witnesses testified to Combs's culpability; a not guilty verdict was decreed on all charges.\n\nOn November 30, 2008, Brafman was hired to represent NFL star Plaxico Burress who, on August 3, 2009, was indicted on two counts of criminal possession of a weapon, and one count of reckless endangerment. Burress pleaded guilty to a weapons charge and was sentenced to two years in prison.\n\nIn 2011, Brafman represented former IMF head Dominique Strauss-Kahn in a sexual assault case involving a member of the housekeeping staff of an upscale New York City hotel. Brafman and Strauss-Kahn's other lawyer, William W. Taylor, III, of Zuckerman Spaeder LLP, gained first a recommendation that charges be dropped from New York County District Attorney Cyrus Vance, and then charges dropped by New York State Supreme Court Justice Michael Obus.\n\nBrafman discussed his defense of Strauss-Kahn on \"Charlie Rose\" in February, 2012.\n\nIn 2014 and 2015, Brafman represented Martin Wolmark of the Epstein-Wolmark gang, an outfit that had plotted the kidnap and torture of Jewish husbands to coerce them into granting their wives \"get\"s (religious divorces). Wolmark pled guilty to the charges, and was sentenced to three years in prison.\n\nIn early 2016, Martin Shkreli retained Brafman to defend him. In a 2017 jury trial, Shkreli was found guilty on two counts of securities fraud and one count of conspiracy to commit securities fraud. He was sentenced to seven years in prison.\n\nFormer film producer Harvey Weinstein hired Brafman in 2017, after numerous sexual abuse allegations against him from prominent members of Hollywood resulted in charges and a criminal trial. \n\nBrafman represented Weinstein at his arraignment on May 25, 2018 in Manhattan Criminal Court on charges of first-degree rape and third-degree rape in one case, and first-degree criminal sex act in another case. Brafman said in an interview: \"Mr. Weinstein did not invent the casting couch in Hollywood. Bad behavior is not on trial in this case.\"\n\nIn January 2019, Brafman and Weinstein issued a joint statement officially parting ways.\nWeinstein would subsequently get convicted on several charges, and sentenced to years in prison. He currently is being held at the Rikers Island prison.\n\nBrafman's family fled from Europe to Cuba on their way to the United States just before World War II. Brafman is a practicing Orthodox Jew.\n\nHis wife Lynda is a librarian. The Brafmans lived in a \"cramped Forest Hills apartment\" early in their marriage and, by 1998, lived in an \"enormous Long Island brick mansion.\" Brafman has lived in the Five Towns area of western Long Island since 1981.\n\nThe couple has two grown children, Jennifer and David, and a number of grandchildren. His daughter lives in the Five Towns area, close to Brafman, and his son lives in Israel, where Brafman travels often.\n\nBrafman's older brother, Aaron, was an Orthodox rabbi in Far Rockaway.\n\nBrafman is a self-described \"short Jewish guy,\" standing five feet, six inches tall.\n"}
{"id": "2094099", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2094099", "title": "The Whitey Album", "text": "The Whitey Album\n\nThe Whitey Album is an album by Ciccone Youth, a side project of Sonic Youth members Steve Shelley, Kim Gordon, Lee Ranaldo and Thurston Moore, featuring contributions from Minutemen/Firehose member Mike Watt and J Mascis of Dinosaur Jr.\n\nAlthough it is suggested through only a few songs, the album is somewhat a tongue-in-cheek tribute to Madonna and 1980s pop in general. Ahead of Madonna’s 60th birthday in 2018, frontman Thurston Moore told \"The Guardian\":\n\nMadonna was actually in a couple of no-wave bands that nobody ever talks about. She was in a band with these two twins, Dan and Josh Braun, who were the first members of Swans, Michael Gira's band. Nobody really knows about that part of her history; she was in a pre-Swans no wave band! There's all that interconnected history in New York with Madonna and the no wave scene. [...]\n\nEventually she started making really amazing dance records. \"Into the Groove\" was brilliant to the point where I thought it would be a great song to cover through the prism of Sonic Youth. Instantly fabulous. We took her record and put it on one of the channels in the studio and we would fade it into [our version of] the song once in a while, not thinking about the legalities of such a move. We made a 12-inch with Mike Watt from Minutemen on a label called New Alliance, a sub-label of Black Flag's SST Records [\"Into the Groove(y)\"]. We wanted to break down any kind of barrier that was being set up between the underground and the people who had graduated from it to the mainstream.\n\nWe actually embraced Madonna's \"joie de vivre\", her celebrity. We did that record and everybody felt we were crazy, and some people lambasted us for giving her some kind of credibility in the underground. But she already had credibility, as far as I was concerned; she was already a part of the downtown scene. I don't think she capitalised on it.\nContrary to many Sonic Youth albums, drum machines and samplers are the foundation of the recording, but Sonic Youth's trademark dissonance and experimental methods still permeate throughout. The album featured a new version of an early Sonic Youth song, \"Making the Nature Scene\".\n\nTrack 2, \"(Silence)\", is a titular one minute gap of silence intended as a tribute to John Cage.\n\nMike Watt's only contribution is a version of Madonna's \"Burnin' Up,\" on which he sang and played all instruments.\n\nAccording to the liner notes of the deluxe edition of \"Daydream Nation\": \"The album cover [of Ciccone Youth], a b&w xerox enlargement of Madonna's face, was a brilliant and contemporary design. Sonic Youth had employed found images on album covers before, but this was testing the limit. We sent copies of the vinyl album to Warners to be passed on to Madonna via her sister who worked in the art department there. Word came back that she had no problem with it acknowledging she remembered the band from her NYC Danceteria days\".\n\nThe album received generally mixed reviews from critics. \"Trouser Press\" wrote \"the joke doesn't translate, and the disc comes across as a self-indulgent mess\".\n\nAll songs by Ciccone Youth, except where noted.\n\n\nCD reissue bonus track\n"}
{"id": "2094101", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2094101", "title": "Joseph Fiorenza", "text": "Joseph Fiorenza\n\nJoseph Anthony Fiorenza (born January 25, 1931) is an American prelate of the Catholic Church. He was the seventh Bishop and the first Archbishop of Galveston-Houston, serving from 1985 to 2006. He previously served as Bishop of San Angelo from 1979 to 1984.\n\nJoseph Fiorenza was born in Beaumont, Texas, the second of four sons of Anthony and Grace (née Galiano) Fiorenza. His father immigrated from Sicily at age 10, while his mother was the daughter of Sicilian immigrants. He attended St. Anthony High School in Beaumont, where he was football team captain and senior class president. He skipped a grade and graduated from high school at age 16 in 1947. He then studied at St. Mary's Seminary in La Porte.\n\nFiorenza was ordained to the priesthood on May 29, 1954. His first assignment was as assistant pastor of Queen of Peace Church in Houston, where he remained for three years. In 1957, he became professor of medical ethics at Sacred Heart Dominican College and chaplain of St. Joseph Hospital in Houston. He served as administrator of Sacred Heart Co-Cathedral from 1959 to 1967. In 1965, he participated in the Selma to Montgomery marches during the Civil Rights Movement.\n\nFiorenza served as pastor of St. Augustine Church (1967–69) and of St. Benedict the Abbot Church (1969–72), both in Houston. From 1972 to 1973, he was both pastor of Assumption Church and vice-chancellor of the Diocese of Galveston-Houston. He was named Honorary Prelate of His Holiness by Pope Paul VI on December 5, 1973, and served as diocesan chancellor from 1973 to 1979.\n\nOn September 4, 1979, Fiorenza was appointed the fourth Bishop of San Angelo by Pope John Paul II. He received his episcopal consecration on the following October 25 from Archbishop Patrick Flores, with Bishops John Louis Morkovsky and John E. McCarthy serving as co-consecrators, at Sacred Heart Cathedral.\n\nOn December 18, 1984, Fiorenza was named Bishop of the Diocese of Galveston-Houston by Pope John Paul II. He was installed as Bishop of Galveston-Houston by Archbishop Patrick Flores in the presence of Archbishop Pio Laghi, the Apostolic Pro-Nuncio. The Diocese of Galveston-Houston was elevated to the status of Archdiocese by John Paul II on Dec. 29, 2004, at which point Fiorenza became an archbishop.\n\nWhen a wave of allegations of sexual abuse of boys and girls within the Catholic Church was widely reported from 2002, Fiorenza issued a statement proclaiming that the archdiocese would \"make the protection and safety of children and young people a top priority\", but it has been reported that nothing was done; internal memos from 1996—published in detail by the press—show that abuse was reported but ignored for years. In a 2006 news report Fiorenza was said to have had a tendency to accept troubled clergy into his domains; and the Galveston-Houston archdiocese acted to protect the church from public scrutiny, mounting vigorous legal defenses, blaming the victims, and obfuscating for the news media.\n\nArchbishop Fiorenza submitted his letter of retirement to the Vatican in February 2006 at the customary age of 75 years. The response was received on February 28, 2006, officially granting Fiorenza his retirement and declaring former coadjutor Archbishop Daniel DiNardo the presiding Archbishop of Galveston-Houston.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2094109", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2094109", "title": "Xinu", "text": "Xinu\n\nXinu Is Not Unix (Xinu, a recursive acronym), is an operating system for embedded systems, originally developed by Douglas Comer for educational use at Purdue University in the 1980s. The name is both recursive, and is \"Unix\" spelled backwards. It has been ported to many hardware platforms, including the DEC PDP-11 and VAX systems, Sun-2 and Sun-3 workstations, Intel x86, PowerPC G3 and MIPS. Xinu was also used for some models of Lexmark printers.\n\nDespite its name suggesting some similarity to Unix, Xinu is a different type of operating system, written with no knowledge of the Unix source code, or compatibility goals. It uses different abstractions, and system calls, some with names matching those of Unix, but different semantics.\n\nXinu first ran on the LSI-11 platform. A Motorola 68000 port was done by Derrick Burns in 1984. A VAX port was done in 1986 by Comer and Tom Stonecypher, an IBM PC compatible port in 1988 by Comer and Timothy Fossum, a second Motorola 68000 (Sun 3) port circa 1988 by Shawn Ostermann, a Macintosh platform port in 1989 by Comer and Steven Munson, an Intel 80486 version by John Lin in 1995, a SPARC port by Jim Griffioen, and a PowerPC port in 2005 and MIPS port of Embedded Xinu in 2006 by Dennis Brylow.\n\nDennis Brylow at Marquette University has ported Xinu to both the PowerPC and MIPSEL processor architectures. Porting Xinu to reduced instruction set computing (RISC) architectures greatly simplified its implementation, increasing its ability to be used as a tool for teaching and research.\n\nMIPSEL was chosen as a target architecture due to the proliferation of the MIPSEL-based WRT54GL router and the \"cool\" incentive that motivates some students to become involved in projects. The first embedded Xinu systems laboratory based on the WRT54GL router was developed at Marquette University. In collaboration with the Marquette Xinu team, an embedded Xinu laboratory was formed at the University of Mississippi, laying the groundwork for further work on developing a Virtual Xinu Laboratory.\n\nEmbedded Xinu is a fresh reimplementation of the Xinu design, in ANSI C, on an embedded RISC architecture. The MIPS port of Embedded Xinu was developed from 2006 to 2010 at Marquette University, under the direction of Dr. Dennis Brylow. The Embedded Xinu operating system is copyright (c) 2007, 2008, 2009, and 2010 by Douglas Comer and Dennis Brylow.\n\nThe first successful port of embedded Xinu was in 1994, when it was implemented in a Kenmore model 728858 microwave oven produced in the year 1990.\n\nThe Xinu Laboratory in the University of Mississippi's Department of Computer and Information Science was formed during the summer of 2008 by Dr. Paul Ruth. Assisting him in the project were Jianshu Zhao and Patrick Hoover, who were both graduate students at the time. Also assisting him were Chelsea Norman and Kevin Kent, who were undergraduates at the time. The initial laboratory is based on the Marquette University Embedded Xinu Laboratory.\nLocated in the server room of Weir Hall on the campus of the University of Mississippi, is composed of a dozen modified Linksys WRT54GL wireless routers, a 32 port Digi Etherlite serial annex, a 24 port 10/100 Mbit/s Ethernet switch, a BayTech serial controlled power strip, and quite a few wires. The system is controlled by a standard PC running Debian Linux. The whole system cost less than $3000, not including the PC.\n\nThe WRT54G routers use the MIPSEL architecture and are used as backend devices on which the Xinu embedded operating system runs. The PC runs several daemons which enable and manage the users ability to access the backends.\n\nThe Nexos Project is a joint effort between Marquette University, the University at Buffalo, and the University of Mississippi to build curriculum materials and a supporting experimental laboratory for hands-on projects in computer systems courses. The approach focuses on low cost, flexible, commodity embedded hardware, freely available development and debugging tools, and a fresh implementation of a classic operating system, Embedded Xinu, that is ideal for student exploration. Virtual Xinu addresses two challenges that limit the effectiveness of Nexos. First, potential faculty adopters have clearly indicated that even with the current minimal monetary cost of installation, the hardware modifications, and time investment remain troublesome factors that scare off interested educators. Second, overcoming inherent complications that arise due to the shared subnet that allow student projects to interfere with each other in ways that are difficult to recreate, debug, and understand. Ultimately, porting the Xinu operating systems to QEMU virtual hardware, and developing the virtual networking platform have produced results showing success using Virtual Xinu in the classroom during one semester of the Operating Systems course at the University of Mississippi by Dr Ruth.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2094129", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2094129", "title": "Sun Belt Water", "text": "Sun Belt Water\n\nSun Belt Water Inc. is an American water transportation company based in Santa Barbara, California. \n\nSun Belt Water is better known for filing a lawsuit against Canada for $10.5 billion US over access to BC Water.\n\nSun Belt Water, Inc. was organized as a California C-corp in March 1990 for the purpose of responding to the invitation from the British Columbia government to invest in the new and emerging industry to export the BC surplus water by marine transport systems.\n\nIn October 1999, the company filed a North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) Chapter 11 Notice of Claim and Demand for Arbitration with the United Nations Commission on International Trade Law (UNCITRAL) against the government of Canada for a dispute regarding access to water from the province of British Columbia. The issue of water exports has a high level of political sensitivity in Canada and public interest groups are opposed to the issue. In 1999, Sun Belt Water. Inc. abandoned its case in Canada's court system and filed an Arbitration claim against Canada under Chapter 11 of the NAFTA claiming access of fresh water from Canada or damages of $995 million.\n\nSun Belt Water, Inc. v. Government of Canada\n\nSun Belt Water, Inc., a United States company, served the Government of Canada with a 'Notice of Intent to Submit a Claim to Arbitration' in November 1998. No valid claim has been filed. There is no Chapter Eleven arbitration on this matter. (link below)\n\nhttp://www.international.gc.ca/trade-agreements-accords-commerciaux/topics-domaines/disp-diff/sunbelt.aspx?lang=eng\n\n"}
{"id": "2094130", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2094130", "title": "St. Nerses I", "text": "St. Nerses I\n\nNerses I the Great () was an Armenian Catholicos (or Patriarch) who lived in the fourth century. He was the son of At'anagenes and his mother was the Arsacid Princess Bambish, a sister of King Tigranes VII (Tiran) and a daughter of King Khosrov III. His paternal grandfather was St. Husik I whose paternal grandfather was Saint Gregory the Illuminator. \n\nNerses spent his youth in Caesarea where he married a Mamikonian princess called Sanducht. Sanducht bore Nerses a son called Sahak, who would become another Catholicos in Armenia. After the death of his wife, he was appointed sword-bearer to King Arsaces II (Arshak II). A few years later, having entered the ecclesiastical state, he was elected Catholicos in 353. \n\nHis patriarchate marks a new era in Armenian history. Until that point, the Church had been more or less identified with the royal family and the nobles; Nerses brought it into closer connection with the people. At the Council of Ashtishat he promulgated numerous laws on marriage, fast days, and divine worship. He built schools and hospitals, and sent monks throughout the land to preach the Gospel. \n\nNerses held a synod at Ashtishat that, among other things, forbade people to marry their first cousin and forbade mutilation and other extreme actions in mourning. Some of these reforms drew upon him the king's displeasure, and he was exiled, supposedly to Edessa. It was probably at some point during the latter part of Arshak's reign that Nerses went to Constantinople to ensure the emperor's support of Armenia against the Persians. According to the Faustus of Byzantium's account, Roman emperor Valens became outraged at Nerses condemning his following of the teachings of Arius and sent Nerses into exile. While Nerses was in exile in Xad he was the leader of the church in Armenia.\n\nUpon the accession of pro-Arian King Papas (Pap) (369) he returned to his see. Papas proved a dissolute and unworthy ruler and Nerses forbade him entrance to the church. Under the pretence of seeking reconciliation, Papas invited Nerses to his table and reportedly poisoned him in 373.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2094135", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2094135", "title": "Spurrell", "text": "Spurrell\n\nSpurrell is a surname found in Norfolk, Wales and other parts of the United Kingdom, as well as in various countries around the world.\n\nIt has been suggested that the name of the Norfolk family is derived from the village of Sporle, near Swaffham. In 1349 a William de Sporle was admitted freeman of the city of Norwich and later sat on the committee that considered the creation of the office of Mayor of Norwich. Spurrells were resident in Norwich from the fifteenth century onwards, and in 1737 John Spurrell was elected mayor of the city.\n\nSpurrells are recorded in Thurgarton, near Cromer, from the early 1500s and may have settled there from Norwich. A William Sporrell is listed on the Subsidy Roll in 1522, and the Thurgarton parish records show several generations of the family from 1539 onwards. The Spurrell family (the change in spelling from Sporrell to Spurrell occurred in the mid-16th century) owned several hundred acres of land in Thurgarton, Bessingham, Sustead, Gresham and Erpingham.\n\nIn 1733 William Spurrell, the first of four generations named William to serve as Chief Constable of North Erpingham hundred, rebuilt Thurgarton House in the Georgian style. A Victorian wing and several brick barns were built in the nineteenth century. The house remained in the Spurrell family until 2014.\n\nIn 1894 John Thomas Spurrell, the younger son of Richard James Spurrell of Thurgarton House, inherited several thousand acres in Horsham St Faith and Newton St Faith, near Norwich, from Barbara, Countess von Rechberg (daughter of Thomas Jones, 6th Viscount Ranelagh, and the estranged wife of the Austrian statesman Count Johann Bernhard von Rechberg und Rothenlöwen). In the 1930s part of the estate was requisitioned for the construction of RAF Horsham St Faith, which in 1963 became Norwich International Airport.\n\nIn 1766 John Spurrell, the younger son of William Spurrell who built Thurgarton House in 1733, purchased land in neighbouring Bessingham from the Anson family. The Spurrells expanded the estate, benefiting from the enclosure of the common land in the 1820s, and in 1870 Daniel Spurrell built a new Manor House, with lawns, a walled garden and parkland laid out around it. Daniel's daughter Katherine Anne Spurrell bred daffodils in the grounds of the Manor House, some of which received the Award of Merit from the Royal Horticultural Society, and the daffodil Narcissus 'Katherine Spurrell' was named after her by Edward Leeds. Another famous resident of the Manor House in the late nineteenth century was a bear, brought to Bessingham from India by Daniel's son Robert John Spurrell, a cavalry officer who had rowed for the University of Cambridge in the 1878 boat race.\n\nThe Bessingham estate included farms in Roughton, Billockby and Sidestrand (including Sidestrand Hall, which was sold to Sir Samuel Hoare in 1880) and was eventually broken up and sold in 1970. The Manor House now operates as self-catering holiday accommodation.\n\nThrough marriage with other North Norfolk families such as the Bacons, Flaxmans and Copemans, the Spurrells became prominent members of the local gentry, serving on local and parish councils. Some members of the family achieved wider recognition:\n\n\nIn the early nineteenth century the family also had links to various London breweries, which were cemented through marriage (Watney's Stag Brewery in Victoria, the Gray and Dacre Brewery in West Ham, and the Anchor Brewery, Southwark), as well as to the coppersmiths James Shears and Sons.\n\nIt is not known whether there is any connection between the Norfolk families and those living in Wales and the West Country. There were Spurrells in Devon in the sixteenth century, so any migration would be difficult to prove due to the lack of early records.\n\nSpurrell's Cross on Dartmoor marks the spot where the path used by monks to travel from Buckfast Abbey to Plympton Priory met the path from Wrangaton to Erme Pound.\n\nIn the late eighteenth century John Spurrell, an auctioneer from Bath, moved to Wales and settled in Carmarthen. He was the grandson of Robert Spurrell, a Bath schoolmaster who printed the first book, \"The Elements of Chronology\", in the city in 1730. In 1840, a printing press was set up in Carmarthen by William Spurrell (1813–1889), who wrote a history of the town and compiled and published a Welsh-English dictionary (first published 1848) and an English-Welsh dictionary (first published 1850). Today's Collins Welsh dictionary is known as the \"Collins Spurrell\".\n\nA local housing authority in Carmarthen is named Heol Spurrell in honour of the family.\n\nKate Florence Spurrell was a trade unionist from Devon who stood as a Labour Party candidate in Totnes in the 1924 and 1929 general elections and in Camborne in the 1931 and 1935 general elections.\n\nSpurrell Avenue in Bexley, Kent, is named after Flaxman C. J. Spurrell.\n\nThe Spurrell Charitable Trust makes donations to local causes in Norfolk.\n"}
{"id": "2094149", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2094149", "title": "Charles Mayne Young", "text": "Charles Mayne Young\n\nCharles Mayne Young (1777–1856), was an English actor. He was born to a respected London surgeon (doctor). His first stage appearance was in Liverpool on 20 September 1798, where he played a Young Norval in Home's blank verse tragedy \"Douglas\". Young's first London appearance was in 1807, as Hamlet with his friend Charles Mathews playing Polonius. \"With the decline of John Philip Kemble, and until the coming of Kean and Macready, he was the leading English tragedian\". He retired in 1832 in a farewell performance playing Hamlet with, as a special honour to him, Mathews as Polonius and Macready as the Ghost.\n\nCharles Mayne Young was born on 10 January 1777 in Fenchurch Street. He was educated at Eton and Merchant Taylors'. Worked in a merchants' house, Longman & Co.\n\nFollowing his first performance in Liverpool on 20 September 1798, one review stated, 'A young man (whose name we understand is Green [Young]) appeared for the first time in public last night at our theatre, in the part of Young Norval. He was received with great applause, and acquitted himself in a manner highly credible'.\n\nHe was so successful, that the same winter he played lead at Manchester, and returned to fill the like position at Liverpool the following summer, from 1800 to 1802.\n\nYoung made his London debut as Hamlet at the Haymarket on 22 June 1807. He joined the Covent Garden Company in 1810, as second to John Kemble, and led when he was absent. \n\nWashington Irving wrote, \"I am delighted with Young, who acts with great judgment, discrimination and feeling, I think him much the best actor at present on the English stage. His \"Hamlet\" is a very fine performance, as is likewise his \"Stranger\", \"Pierre\", \"Chamont\", etc.\"\n\nYoung married Julia Ann Grimani of the Venice Grimani family. She was famed for her beauty and talent. At the Theatre Royal, Liverpool, on 20 October 1803, she appeared with him in\"The Belle's Strategy\" as Letitia Hardy; their first stage performance together. She made her London stage \"début\" in 1804 as Juliet. In October of that year, she contracted to play at the Theatre Royal, Liverpool, as Juliet to Young's Romeo. On 9 March 1805, they married at St. Ann's Church, Liverpool. They contracted for a twelve-month season at Manchester. The next year, after giving birth to her son, Julian Charles Young, she fell victim to puerperal fever, dying on 17 July 1806 at age 21.\n\nYoung gave custody of his son Julian to the care of the daughter of a Captain Forbes of the Royal Navy. He never remarried.\n\nJulian took holy orders, serving as Chaplain at Hampton Court Palace and Rector of Ilmington, Warwickshire. On 26 April 1832 Julian married Elizabeth Anne Georgiana, daughter of James Willis, Consul-General- later Governor- of Senegambia. They had three sons and two daughters. Julian published in 1871 \"A memoir of Charles Mayne Young, tragedian: with extracts from his son's journal\".\n\nHis final performance was as Hamlet at Covent Garden on 30 May 1832.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2094153", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2094153", "title": "Living Constitution", "text": "Living Constitution\n\nThe constitution referred to as the living law of the land as it is transformed according to necessities of the time and situation. In United States constitutional interpretation, the living Constitution (or loose constructionism) is the claim that the Constitution and other constitutions, holds a dynamic meaning, evolving and adapting to new circumstances, without being formally amended. A living Constitution is said to develop alongside the needs of a society, providing a more malleable tool for governments. The idea is associated with views that contemporaneous society should be taken into account when interpreting key constitutional phrases.\n\nWhile the arguments for the Living Constitution vary, they can generally be broken into two categories. First, the pragmatist view contends that interpreting the Constitution in accordance with its original meaning or intent is sometimes unacceptable as a policy matter, and thus that an evolving interpretation is necessary. The second, relating to intent, contends that the constitutional framers specifically wrote the Constitution in broad and flexible terms to create such a dynamic, \"living\" document. Opponents of the idea often argue that the Constitution should be changed through an amendment process because allowing judges to change the Constitution's meaning undermines democracy. Another argument against a living constitution is that legislative action, rather than judicial decisions, can better represent the will of the people in a constitutional republic since periodic elections allow individuals to vote on who will represent them in Congress and members of Congress should (in theory) be responsive to the views of their constituents. This argument relies, in part, on the fact that federal judges (who are not elected, but rather appointed by the President) have life tenure and are far less at risk of losing their jobs than members of Congress (who must be elected). The primary alternative to a living constitution theory is \"originalism\".\n\nSome supporters of the living method of interpretation, such as professors Michael Kammen and Bruce Ackerman, refer to themselves as organists. \nDuring the Progressive Era, many initiatives were promoted and fought for, but were prevented from coming to full fruition in either legislative bodies or judicial proceedings. One case in particular, Pollock v. Farmers' Loan & Trust Co., enraged early progressive activists hoping to achieve an income tax. This led progressives to the belief that the Constitution was unamendable, and ultimately to find a new way to achieve the desired level of progress. Other proposals were considered, such as making the methods for directly amending the Constitution easier.\n\nThe phrase originally derives from the title of a 1927 book of that name by Professor Howard Lee McBain, while early efforts at developing the concept in modern form have been credited to figures including Oliver Wendell Holmes Jr., Louis D. Brandeis, and Woodrow Wilson. The earliest mentions of the Constitution as \"living\", particularly in the context of a new way of interpreting it, comes out of Woodrow Wilson's book \"Constitutional Government in the United States\" where he wrote:\n\nLiving political constitutions must be Darwinian in structure and in practice.\n\nWilson strengthened this view, at least publicly, while he campaigned for President in 1912. He said:\n\nSociety is a living organism and must obey the laws of life, not of mechanics; it must develop. All that progressives ask or desire is permission - in an era when \"development,\" \"evolution,\" is the scientific word - to interpret the Constitution according to the Darwinian principle; all they ask is recognition of the fact that a nation is a living thing and not a machine.\n\nOne could also reasonably argue that Thomas Jefferson himself presented the idea of evolving Constitutional interpretations. In an 1816 letter to Samuel Kercheval, excerpted on Panel 4 of the Jefferson Memorial, he wrote\n\nBut I know also, that laws and institutions must go hand in hand with the progress of the human mind. As that becomes more developed, more enlightened, as new discoveries are made, new truths disclosed, and manners and opinions change with the change of circumstances, institutions must advance also, and keep pace with the times. We might as well require a man to wear still the coat which fitted him when a boy, as civilized society to remain ever under the regimen of their barbarous ancestors.\n\nAlthough \"the living Constitution\" is itself a characterization rather than a specific method of interpretation, the phrase is associated with various non-originalist theories of interpretation. The most common association is with judicial pragmatism. In the course of his judgment in \"Missouri v. Holland\" 252 U.S. 416 (1920), Holmes made this remark on the nature of the constitution.\n\nAccording to the pragmatist view, the Constitution should be seen as evolving over time as a matter of social necessity. Looking solely to original meaning, when the original intent was largely to permit many practices universally condemned today, is under this view cause to reject pure originalism out of hand.\n\nThis general view has been expressed by Judge Richard Posner:\n\nThis pragmatist objection is central to the idea that the Constitution should be seen as a living document. Under this view, for example, constitutional requirements of \"equal rights\" should be read with regard to current standards of equality, and not those of decades or centuries ago, because the alternative would be unacceptable.\n\nIn addition to pragmatist arguments, most proponents of the living Constitution argue that the Constitution was deliberately written to be broad and flexible to accommodate social or technological change over time. Edmund Randolph, in his Draft Sketch of Constitution, wrote this:\n\nThe living constitution's proponents assert that Randolph's injunction to use \"simple and precise language, and general propositions,\" such that the Constitution could \"be accommodated to times and events,\" is evidence of the \"genius\" of the Constitutional framers. \nJames Madison, principal author of the U.S. Constitution and often called the \"Father of the Constitution,\" said this in argument for original intent and against changing the Constitution by evolving language:\n\nSome living Constitutionists seek to reconcile themselves with the originalist view; e.g., one that interprets the Constitution as it was originally intended to be interpreted.\n\nOne application of the living Constitution framework is seen in the Supreme Court's reference to \"evolving standards of decency\" under the Eighth Amendment. This was seen in the 1958 Supreme Court case of \"Trop v. Dulles\":\n\nWhile the Court was referring in \"Trop\" only to the Eighth Amendment's prohibition on cruel and unusual punishment, the underlying conception – namely, that the Constitution is written in broad terms, and that the Court's interpretation of those terms should reflect current societal conditions – is the heart of the \"living Constitution\" doctrine.\n\nFrom its inception, one of the most controversial aspects of the living Constitutional framework has been its association with broad interpretations of the equal protection and due process clauses of the 5th and 14th Amendments.\n\nProponents of the Living Constitution suggest that a dynamic view of civil liberties is vital to the continuing effectiveness of our Constitutional scheme. Not only is it currently seen as unacceptable to suggest that married women or descendants of slaves are not entitled to liberty or equal protection with regard to coverture laws, slavery laws and their legacy as they were not expressly seen as free from such by all ratifiers at the time of the Constitutional ratification, but neither do advocates of the living Constitution believe that the framers intended, or certainly demanded, that their 18th century practices be regarded as the permanent standard for these ideals.\n\nLiving Constitutionalists suggest that broad ideals such as \"liberty\" and \"equal protection\" were included in the Constitution precisely because they are timeless, due to their inherently dynamic nature. Liberty in 1791, it is argued, was never thought to be the same as liberty in 1591 or 1991, but rather was seen as a principle transcending the recognized rights of that day and age. Giving them a fixed and static meaning in the name of \"originalism,\" thus, is said to violate the very theory it purports to uphold.\n\nAs the subject of significant controversy, the idea of a Living Constitution is plagued by numerous conflicting contentions.\n\nThe idea of a Living Constitution was often characterized by Justice Scalia and others as inherently disregarding Constitutional language, suggesting that one should not simply read and apply the constitutional text.\n\nJack Balkin argues that this is not the intended meaning of the term, however, which suggests rather that the Constitution be read contemporaneously, rather than historically. Such an inquiry often consults the original meaning or intent, along with other interpretive devices. A proper application, then, involves some reconciliation between these various devices, not a simple disregard for one or another.\n\nAnother common view of the Living Constitution is as synonymous with \"judicial activism,\" a phrase generally used to accuse judges of resolving cases based on their own political convictions or preferences.\n\nIn sum, it may be noted that the Living Constitution does not itself represent a detailed philosophy, and that distinguishing it from other theories can be difficult. Indeed, Living Constitutionalists often suggest that it is the true \"originalist\" philosophy, while originalists generally agree that phrases such as \"just compensation\" should be applied differently than 200 years ago. It has been suggested that the true difference between these judicial philosophies does not regard \"meaning\" at all, but rather, the correct \"application\" of Constitutional principles. A Living Constitutionalist would not necessarily state, for instance, that the meaning of \"liberty\" has changed since 1791. It may be what it always has always been: a general principle recognizing individual freedom. The important change then might be in what is recognized as liberty today, that was not fully recognized two centuries ago. This view was enunciated for the Supreme Court by Justice George Sutherland in 1926:\n\nTo complete the example, the question of how to apply a term like \"liberty\" may not be a question of what it \"means,\" but rather a question of what liberties are presently entitled to constitutional protection. Living Constitutionalists tend to advocate a broad application in accordance with current views, while originalists tend to seek an application consistent with views at the time of ratification. Critics of the Living Constitution assert that it is more open to judicial manipulation, while proponents argue that theoretical flexibility in either view provides adherents extensive leeway in what decision to reach in a particular case.\n\nBy its nature, the \"living Constitution\" is not held to be a specific theory of construction, but a vision of a Constitution whose boundaries are dynamic, congruent with the needs of society as it changes. This method also has its critics; in the description of Chief Justice William Rehnquist, it \"has about it a teasing imprecision that makes it a coat of many colors.\"\n\nIt is important to note that the term \"living Constitution\" is sometimes used by critics as an aspersion, while some advocates of the general philosophy avoid the phrase. Opponents of the doctrine tend to use the term as an epithet synonymous with judicial activism (itself a hotly debated phrase). However, just as some conservative theorists have embraced the term Constitution in Exile (which similarly gained popularity through use by liberal critics), and textualism was a term which once had pejorative connotations before its widespread acceptance as a badge of honor, some liberal theorists have embraced the image of a living document as appealing.\n\nTwo of the arguments in support of the concept of a \"living Constitution\" is the concept that the Constitution itself is silent on the matter of constitutional interpretation. Proponents of the living Constitution assert that the Constitutional framers, most of whom were trained lawyers and legal theorists, were certainly aware of these debates; they also would have known the confusion that not providing a clear interpretive method would cause. Had the framers meant for future generations to interpret the Constitution in a specific manner, they could have indicated such within the Constitution itself. The lack of guidance within the text of the Constitution suggests, therefore, that either: a) there was no such consensus, or b) the framers never intended any fixed method of constitutional interpretation.\n\nRelating to the pragmatic argument, it is further argued that if judges were denied the opportunity to reflect on changes to modern society in interpreting the scope of Constitutional rights, the resulting Constitution either would not reflect current mores and values, or would necessitate a constant amendment process to reflect our changing society.\n\nAnother defense of the Living Constitution is based in viewing the Constitution not merely as law, but as a source of foundational \"concepts\" for the governing of society. Of course, laws must be fixed and clear so that people can understand and abide by them on a daily basis. But if the Constitution is more than a set of laws, if it provides guiding concepts which themselves will in turn provide the foundations for laws, then the costs and benefits of such an entirely fixed meaning are very different. The reason for this is simple: if a society locks itself into a previous generation's interpretive ideas, it will wind up either constantly attempting to change the Constitution to reflect changes, or simply scrapping the Constitution altogether. While we remain bound by the rights and powers provided in the Constitution, thus, the scope those rights and powers should account for society's present experiences. \"Oliver Wendell Holmes, Jr., wrote in 1914: 'Provisions of the Constitution of the United States are not mathematical formulas having their essence in their form, but are organic living institutions transplanted from English soil. Their significance is not to be gathered simply from the words and a dictionary, but by considering their origin and the line of their growth.'\"\n\nA prominent endorsement of the Living Constitution concept was heard in the 2000 presidential campaign by the Democratic candidate, Al Gore.\n\nThe strongest argument against the doctrine of \"Living Constitution\" comes not from its moderate use, but when the concept is seen as promoting activism. The term presumes the premise of \"that which is written is insufficient in light of what has transpired since\". This more moderate concept is generally not the target of those who are against the \"Living Constitution\". The concept considered perverse by constructionalists is \"making the law say what you think it should say, rather than submitting to what it does say\".\n\nEconomist Thomas Sowell argues in his book \"Knowledge and Decisions\" that since the original designers of the Constitution provided for the process of changing it, they never intended for their original words to change meaning. Sowell also points out cases where arguments are made that the original framers never considered certain issues, when clear record of them doing so exists.\n\nAnother argument against the concept of a \"living Constitution\" ironically, is similar to the argument for it; the fact that the Constitution itself is silent on the matter of constitutional interpretation. The doctrine of the \"living Constitution\" relies on the concept that the original framers either could not come to a consensus about how to interpret, or they never intended any fixed method of interpretation. This would then allow future generations the freedom to reexamine for themselves how to interpret the Constitution.\n\nThis view does not take into account \"why\" the original constitution does not allow for judicial interpretation in any form. The Supreme Court's power for constitutional review, and by extension its interpretation, did not come about until \"Marbury v. Madison\" in 1803. The concept for a \"living constitution\" therefore relies on an argument regarding the writing of the constitution that had no validity when the constitution was written.\n\nThe views of constitutional law scholar Laurence Tribe are often described by conservative critics such as Robert Bork as being characteristic of the \"living Constitution paradigm\" they condemn. Bork labels Tribe's approach as \"protean,\" meaning that it was whatever Tribe needed it to be to reach a desired policy outcome (Tribe rejects both the term and the description). Such a construction appears to define \"living Constitution\" doctrine as being an ends dictate the means anti-law philosophy. Some liberal constitutional scholars have since implied a similar charge of intellectual dishonesty regarding originalists, noting that they virtually never reach outcomes with which they disagree. (Many academic political scientists believe that justices and appeals judges are willing to alter their outcomes to attain philosophical majorities on certain questions.)\n\nIn 1987, Supreme Court Justice Thurgood Marshall delivered a lecture, \"The Constitution: A Living Document,\" in which he argued that the Constitution must be interpreted in light of the moral, political, and cultural climate of the age of interpretation. If Judge Bork's formulation of \"the living Constitution\" is guiding, then any interpretation of the Constitution other than originalism (of one form or another) implicates a living Constitution. If, however, Justice Marshall's formulation is guiding, then it is unclear whether methods derived from law and economics or the Moral Constitution might be implicated.\n\nReferences to \"the living Constitution\" are relatively rare among legal academics and judges, who generally prefer to use language that is specific and less rhetorical. It is also worth noting that there is disagreement among opponents of \"the living Constitution\" about whether the idea is the same as, implied by, or assumed by judicial activism, which has a similar ambiguity of meaning and is also used primarily as an epithet.\n\nJustice Clarence Thomas has routinely castigated \"living Constitution\" doctrine. In one particularly strongly worded attack, he noted that:\n\nJustice Antonin Scalia has expressed similar sentiments. He commented:\n\nHe also said:\n\nProfessor Michael Ramsey has criticized living constitutionalism on the grounds that there are very little limits on what it could achieve. Ramsey uses Kenneth Jost's argument in favor of the unconstitutionality of the Electoral College to argue that a living constitutionalist could believe that \"[e]ven something expressly set forth in the Constitution can be unconstitutional if annoying, inconvenient or ill-advised.\" Likewise, Professors Nelson Lund and John McGinnis have argued that it would be difficult for a living constitutionalist such as Robert Post to object if the U.S. Supreme Court would have used its reverse incorporation principle together with the principles of Reynolds v. Sims to make the U.S. Senate apportioned exclusively based on population and nevertheless retained the trust of the American people after doing this.\n\nOne accusation made against the living Constitution method states that judges that adhere to it are \"Activists\" and seek to legislate from the bench. What is generally meant by this is that a judge winds up substituting his judgment regarding the validity, meaning, or scope of a law for that of the democratically elected legislature.\n\nAdherents of a living Constitution method are often accused of \"reading rights\" into the Constitution; that is, they are accused of claiming that the Constitution implies rights found nowhere in the constitutional text. For example, in \"Roe v. Wade\", the Supreme Court held that implicit within the Constitution was a \"right to privacy\" and that this right extends to a woman's right to decide whether to terminate a pregnancy. As such, the Court held that the government could only regulate this right with a compelling interest, and even then, only if the regulation was as minimally intrusive as possible. Conservative critics have since accused the Supreme Court of activism in inventing a Constitutional right to abortion. This accusation is accurate (in that abortion rights indeed had not previously been recognized), however, it has been applied selectively. For example, few conservatives levy the same claim against the Supreme Court for its decisions concerning sovereign immunity: a term also found in the Eleventh Amendment by the Supreme Court.\n\nIn Canada, the living constitution is described under the \"living tree doctrine\".\n\nUnlike the case of the United States, the fact that the constitution of Canada was intended from the outset to encompass unwritten conventions and legal principles is beyond question. For example, the text of the constitution does not mention the office of prime minister or that the governor general always grants royal assent to bills. Principles such as democracy, the Implied Bill of Rights, the rule of law, and judicial independence are held to derive in part from the preamble of the constitution, which declared the constitution of Canada to be \"similar in principle\" to that of the United Kingdom.\n\nThe concept of an evolving constitution has notably been applied to determine the division of powers between provinces and the federal government in areas of jurisdiction not contemplated at the time of enactment of the British North America Act. For example, authority over broadcasting has been held to fall within the federal \"peace, order and good government\" power.\n\nThe Supreme Court of Canada, in (2004), held that Parliament (as opposed to provincial legislatures) had the power to define marriage as including same-sex unions. It rejected claims that the constitutionally enumerated federal authority in matters of \"Marriage and Divorce\" could not include same-sex marriage because marriage as conceived in 1867 was necessarily opposite-sex:\n\nIt has been argued that a primary determinative factor in whether a legal system will develop a \"living constitutional\" framework is the ease with which constitutional amendments can be passed. With this view in mind, the UK Constitution could be considered a \"living constitution\". It only requires a simple majority vote to amend. It is also important to note that the constitution of the United Kingdom does not derive from a single written document. Therefore, its dependence on the important role of Statute law, and the influence of its own version of the supreme court, is what also makes it a living constitution. For instance, after the Second World War, human-rights based philosophy also became profoundly influential in creating a new international legal order, which the United kingdom conformed with. It is also important to note the different levels to which the UK and US hold a living constitution. With the US still referring to an original document, quite contrasting the UK's unwritten document.\n\nThe Constitution of India is considered to be a living and breathing document.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2094161", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2094161", "title": "Leslie Green", "text": "Leslie Green\n\nLeslie William Green (6 February 1875 – 31 August 1908) was an English architect. He is best known for his design of iconic stations constructed on the London Underground railway system in central London during the first decade of the 20th century, with distinctive oxblood red tiled façades including pillars and semi-circular first-floor windows, and patterned tiled interiors.\n\nGreen was born in Maida Vale, London in 1875, the second of four children of architect and Crown Surveyor Arthur Green and his wife Emily. He spent periods studying at Dover College and South Kensington School of Art, and in Paris, between periods working as an assistant in his father's architectural practice.\nGreen married Mildred Ethel Wildy (1879–1960) in Clapham in April 1902. In 1904, they had a daughter, Vera (1904–1995).\n\nGreen established his own practice as an architect in 1897, working initially from his father's offices, before moving to Haymarket in 1900 and then to Adelphi House on Adam Street, by the Strand, in 1903. He became an associate of the Royal Institute of British Architects (RIBA) in 1898, and a member in 1899. Early commissions included works to homes and shops in various parts of the capital city.\n\nIn 1903 he was appointed as architect for the Underground Electric Railways Company of London (UERL) to design stations for three underground railway lines then under construction – the Great Northern, Piccadilly and Brompton Railway (GNP&BR), the Baker Street and Waterloo Railway (BS&WR) and the Charing Cross, Euston and Hampstead Railway (CCE&HR), which, respectively, became parts of the present day Piccadilly line, Bakerloo line and Northern line. Green was commissioned to design 50 new stations, including their external appearance, and internal fittings and decoration.\n\nGreen developed a uniform Arts and Crafts style for the ground level station buildings, adapted to suit the individual station location. They were constructed as two-storey buildings with a structural steel frame – then a new form of construction recently imported from the United States – providing the large internal spaces needed for ticket halls and lift shafts (the first escalators were introduced in 1911). The exterior elevations were clad in non-loadbearing ox-blood red (\"sang de boeuf\") glazed terracotta (faïence) blocks, provided by the Leeds Fireclay Company. The ground floor was divided into wide bays by columns, allowing separate entrances and exits, and also providing space for retail outlets. The design also featured large semi-circular windows at first floor level (occasionally with circular occuli) and a heavy dentilated cornice above. A broad strip between the two floors announced the name of the station in capital letters. The station buildings were constructed with flat roofs with the deliberate aim of encouraging commercial office development above, another benefit of the load-bearing structural steel frame.\n\nThe interior was tiled in green and white, with decorative details. At platform level, the stations were provided with a standardised tiling design incorporating the station name, but with quickly identified individual colour schemes and geometric tile patterns formed in repeating panels along the platform length. Directional signs were also included in the tile designs. The tiled surfaces created a unifying theme, and proved easy to maintain.\n\nThe railways were to open in 1906 and 1907, and Green was notified in June 1907 that the contract would be terminated at the end of that year. He was elected a Fellow of the RIBA in 1907, including details of his work for the UERL as part of his submission.\n\nMany of Green's station buildings survive, although internal modifications have seen most of his ticket hall designs altered to suit later developments. At platform levels a number of the original tiling schemes survive today or have, as at Lambeth North and Marylebone, been reproduced in recent years to the original pattern. A number of the surviving buildings are Grade II listed buildings: Aldwych, Belsize Park, Caledonian Road, Chalk Farm, Covent Garden, Gloucester Road, Holloway Road, Oxford Circus, Mornington Crescent, Russell Square and South Kensington. His work was continued by his assistant, Stanley Heaps. The designs remain instantly recognisable: the screen appearance of the fictitious Walford East Underground station from the BBC soap opera \"EastEnders\" is inspired by Green's designs.\nBakerloo line\nStations between Edgware Road and Elephant & Castle inclusive constructed by BS&WR with station buildings designed by Leslie Green:\nPiccadilly line\nStations between Finsbury Park and Gloucester Road inclusive constructed by GNP&BR with station buildings designed by Leslie Green:\nNorthern line\nStations between Hampstead and Archway and Strand (now Charing Cross) inclusive constructed by CCE&HR with station buildings designed by Leslie Green:\n\nImages from the Photographic Archive of the London Transport Museum\nBakerloo line\n\nPiccadilly line\n\nNorthern line\n\n"}
{"id": "2094168", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2094168", "title": "LRG Capital Funds", "text": "LRG Capital Funds\n\nThe LRG Capital Funds (formerly BayStar Capital Funds) are managed by LRG Capital Group, LLC. Through its BayStar Capital III Investment Fund, a multi-strategy investment fund, the firm makes direct investments in small-to mid capitalization, public and late-stage private companies, primarily within the technology and life sciences sectors.\n\nThe firm is a business unit of LRG Capital Group is an investment, banking and advisory boutique that focuses on public and private companies in the technology, life sciences, hospitality, real estate and entertainment sectors. The firm was founded by former CS First Boston investment banker Lawrence R. Goldfarb.\n\nHeadquartered in San Francisco, with offices in New York City and Miami.\n\nThe BayStar Capital III Investment Fund invests in public companies (such as Glasshouse Technologies, Inc. and Virtualscopics) that have a long term viable business model, an experienced management team and possess a major market opportunity.\n\nPrior BayStar Capital Funds have collectively invested over $1.5 billion of equity in more than 250 companies.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2094178", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2094178", "title": "Rick Rossovich", "text": "Rick Rossovich\n\nRick Rossovich (born August 28, 1957) is an American actor best known as Ron \"Slider\" Kerner in the 1986 film \"Top Gun\".\nRossovich was born Frederic Enrico Rossovich in Palo Alto, California and grew up in Grass Valley, California eventually graduating from Nevada Union High School, one year after Chris Nettles who was his idol and inspiration. His brother, Tim, was a former professional football player and also an actor. He attended college at Sacramento State University. Rossovich has Croatian and Italian ancestry; his father's family comes from Croatia while his mother's family originates from the Tuscany region of Italy.\n\nHe has been married since 1985 to Eva Rossovich, with whom he has two children: Roy (1986) and Isabel (1991).\n\nRossovich has appeared in over 30 films, including:\n\nHe also appeared in several TV series, including:\n\nRossovich has made guest appearances in such TV shows as \"Tales from the Crypt\", \"Mad About You\", \"Murder She Wrote\" and \"Due South\". In 2007, he appeared with his son, Roy, in an episode of \"House Hunters International\" set in Stockholm, Sweden.\n\n"}
{"id": "2094180", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2094180", "title": "Saint John XXIII High School", "text": "Saint John XXIII High School\n\nSt. John XXIII College Preparatory, formerly Pope John XXIII High School, is a Catholic independent, non-profit, coeducational, private day school in unincorporated Harris County, Texas, United States, near Katy. The school serves grades 9-12. The academic year consists of two semesters extending from approximately August to December and January to May. Student leadership development through the Works of Mercy program is a distinct characteristic of the school, and leadership principles are integrated into every course at St. John XXIII. 'SJ23' is accredited by/a member of the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Galveston-Houston (RCAGH), led by Archbishop Daniel DiNardo. SJ23 is also the newest private day school in the Katy area for over fifty years, effective 2004. It is located at 1800 West Grand Parkway North.\n\nThe principal is Joseph Noonan .\n\nThe Houston real estate company Westside Ventures Inc. donated the land used for the school, which first opened in the fall of 2004; the initial construction had a cost of $8 million and included classroom and athletic facilities. It was the first Catholic school to be built in Greater Houston since Strake Jesuit College Preparatory opened in the 1960s. Pope John XXIII initially had only the 9th grade, with 47 students enrolled in its first year of classes. As time passed, the school added more grade levels.\n\nCirca October 2007 Lynn Veazey, who was serving as the principal, resigned. Don Lupton served as the interim principal until April 2008, when the school appointed the position to Tim Petersen, who previously served as the principal of Bishop Manogue Catholic High School in Reno, Nevada. At that time Lupton became the dean of students.\n\nIn 2008 the school had 165 students, and in the spring of that year the school held its first graduation. By April of that year the student count was 206. The student body increased to 270 for the 2009-2010 school year and then 314 for the 2010-2011 school year. The second phase was scheduled to start construction in early 2011, and in January 2012 the phase opened. The school had 400 students in the 2013-2014 school year. The school held its 10h anniversary celebration on October 11, 2013, and the canonization of Pope John XIII was expected the following year.\n\nSaint John XXIII serves the west side of the Houston area in the Greater Katy Area. Students from the Katy, Spring Branch, Cypress, Memorial, Rosenberg and Sugar Land areas attend the school. it also served the Spring area.\n\nAs of the 2013-2014 school year there were 10 students per teacher, and the average class size was 16. Upon admission, students are sorted into one of five houses, much like the Oxford colleges system. These houses are Aquinas, Borromeo, Lisieux, Loreto, and Neri, each named after an important saint of the Catholic church. Each house has its own form of internal student government, senior house captains, and has faculty and staff associates who work with the members of their house. Each house competes in Academic and Athletic competitions to earn points towards the Roncalli Cup as well as earning points from other ways such as coin drops at various sports events and competitions regarding charity donations such as who has donated the most items. The Roncalli Cup is named after the original last name of Pope John XXIII. As of 2018, each house except Borromeo has won the Roncalli Cup at least once. This house system is the first to be implemented in Catholic high schools in the state of Texas.\n\nSaint John XXIII High School is located on a parcel of land at the intersection of the Grand Parkway and Franz Road. Initially a smaller gymnasium with attached locker rooms served the school's athletic needs. The first phase included 19 classrooms, a cafeteria, and an office. The current gymnasium, built at a cost of $4 million, opened as part of the second phase of construction. It is on the eastern end of the campus. In addition to the new gymnasium, there was also a student center building that had a chapel, five classrooms, two laboratories, and a fitness center and attached locker room. The school is preparing to continue expansion after the newly constructed Crosthwait Student Center and a Competition Gymnasium nicknamed by the students the 'New Gym.'\n\nIn 2012, the school was honored by the Cardinal Newman Society for Excellence in Catholic Identity as a part of the Catholic High Schools Honor Roll; it was one of only seven schools in the nation to receive such a distinction, and it was the only one in Greater Houston to do so.\n\nThe school's mascot, nicknamed PJ, is the lion. The school offers 15 different athletic teams, including football, volleyball, boys' and girls' basketball, baseball, softball, swimming, tennis, boys' and girls' soccer, cross country, track and field, golf, lacrosse (offered by an offcampus club) dance/drill team, and cheerleading. The women's swim team won the state title in TAPPS 4A in February 2012 and 2013. The girls' soccer team won the state title championship in TAPPS 3A in 2010. The TAPPS 4A Men's Cross Country champion has been from Pope John XXIII High School in the 2010-2011 and 2011-2012 school years. In 2013, the football team went to the TAPPS 4A State title game, and in 2014 the Boys' Golf team won their first state title. In 2018, the Girls' Softball team made it to the finals in TAPPS and ended the season in second place.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2094182", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2094182", "title": "The Snow Queen (Japanese TV series)", "text": "The Snow Queen (Japanese TV series)\n\n\nGerda and Kai have been neighbors and best friends since childhood. Gerda is now eleven, Kai twelve. They were happy children who worked and played as they should. All that changed when the Snow Queen's mirror broke. The shards spread all through the world, each containing evil. If a shard went inside your eye, it would turn your heart to ice. A shard went into Kai's eye. After that, he grew cold to those he loved. One night, the Snow Queen came after him. She took him into her carriage and they went back to her ice castle at the farthest north point of the world. Everyone in Kai and Gerda's village didn't know where he went and believed he died from drowning in the frozen-over lake. Gerda doesn't believe this, for she dreamed of seeing Kai enter the carriage. When a drunk man admits that he also saw this, Gerda starts realizing that maybe what she saw wasn't a dream. She packs her things and goes on a journey to save Kai and bring him back home.\n\n\nMusic by Akira Senju\n\n"}
{"id": "2094185", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2094185", "title": "Narses (general under Maurice)", "text": "Narses (general under Maurice)\n\nNarses was a Byzantine general of Armenian ancestry active during the reigns of the emperors Maurice and Phocas in the late sixth and early seventh centuries. He commanded the army in Mesopotamia as the \"magister militum per Orientem\" under Maurice. Together with Khosrow II, he fought against the Sasanian usurper Bahram Chobin. When Phocas overthrew Maurice and seized the throne, Narses refused to recognize the usurper. Besieged by Phocas' troops in the city of Edessa, Narses called for Khosrau to aid him and was rescued by the Persian forces. He attempted to salvage the situation with a diplomatic mission but was burned alive in Constantinople by Phocas' government after having been promised safety.\n"}
{"id": "2094195", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2094195", "title": "Arnamagnæan Manuscript Collection", "text": "Arnamagnæan Manuscript Collection\n\nThe Arnamagnæan Manuscript Collection (, ) derives its name from the Icelandic scholar and antiquarian Árni Magnússon (1663–1730) — Arnas Magnæus in Latinised form — who in addition to his duties as Secretary of the Royal Archives and Professor of Danish Antiquities at the University of Copenhagen, spent much of his life building up the collection of manuscripts that now bears his name. The majority of these manuscripts were from Árni’s native Iceland, but he also acquired many important Norwegian, Danish and Swedish manuscripts, as well as a number of continental provenance. In addition to the manuscripts proper, the collection contains about 14000 Icelandic, Norwegian (including Faroese, Shetland and Orcadian) and Danish charters, both originals and first-hand copies (\"apographa\"). After being housed since Árni's death at the University of Copenhagen, in the Arnamagnæan Institute, under a 1965 parliamentary ruling the collection is now divided between there and the Árni Magnússon Institute for Icelandic Studies in Reykjavík, Iceland.\n\nWhen Árni died in 1730 he bequeathed his collection to the University of Copenhagen, whereupon it became part of the University Library. The collection has been augmented over the years through individual purchases and gifts and the acquisition of a number of smaller collections, for example that of the Danish grammarian Rasmus Rask, bringing the total number of items to around 3000. In 1956 the Arnamagnæan Institute (, now \"Den Arnamagnæanske Samling\") was established to care for and further the study of the manuscripts in the collection.\n\nEven before its constitutional separation from Denmark in 1944, Iceland had begun to petition for the return of these manuscripts. After much heated debate, the Danish parliament decided in May 1965 that such documents in the Arnamagnæan Collection as might be held to be \"Icelandic cultural property\" (\"islandsk kultureje\") — broadly defined as a work composed or translated by an Icelander and whose content is wholly or chiefly concerned with Iceland — were to be transferred to the newly established Icelandic Manuscript Institute (now the Árni Magnússon Institute for Icelandic Studies, ), a part of the University of Iceland. It further provided for the transfer from the Danish Royal Library (\"Det kongelige Bibliotek\") of manuscripts belonging to the same categories as the manuscripts relinquished by the Arnamagnæan Institute, and contained a special clause relating to the transfer to Iceland of two manuscripts, the Codex Regius of the Poetic Edda and the vellum codex Flateyjarbók, both of which were in the Danish Royal Library (and would not have been deemed \"islandsk kultureje\" under the terms of the treaty). These were handed over to Iceland in a ceremony held immediately after the ratification of the treaty in 1971. The first consignment of manuscripts was dispatched from Copenhagen to Reykjavík in June 1973 and the last two were handed over in June 1997. Altogether a total of 1,666 manuscripts, and all the Icelandic charters and apographa, have been transferred to Iceland, slightly over half the collection, in addition to 141 manuscripts from the Danish Royal Library. Of the manuscripts remaining in Copenhagen about half are Icelandic but are either copies made in Copenhagen, have as their chief concern matters not directly related to Iceland, e.g. the histories of the kings of Norway and Denmark, religious texts or translations from Latin and other languages. The remainder of the collection comprises the Danish, Swedish, Norwegian and continental European manuscripts mentioned above.\n\nIn 2009 the Arnamagnæan Manuscript Collection was added to UNESCO’s Memory of the World Register in recognition of its historical value.\n\nIn 2019 the Arnamagnæan Institute announced that one of the manuscripts in the collection (AM 377 fol.) was identified as Ferdinand Columbus’s \"Libro de los Epítomes.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2094203", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2094203", "title": "Devco Railway", "text": "Devco Railway\n\nThe Devco Railway was a Canadian railway. Devco Railway operated as an unincorporated department within the Coal Division of the Cape Breton Development Corporation, also known as DEVCO; as such there is no formally incorporated entity named \"Devco Railway\". Devco Railway took over the operations of the Sydney and Louisburg Railway on March 30, 1968 when DEVCO expropriated the S&L as part of the assets of the Dominion Steel and Coal Corporation, or DOSCO.\n\nIn 1966, DOSCO (then a subsidiary of the Hawker Siddeley Group) announced that its mines had only 18 years of production left and concluded that expense of opening new underground mines in the Sydney Coal Field would be too expensive. The company made its intentions clear that it would be exiting the coal mining business within months.\n\nIn response to a vast public outcry in industrial Cape Breton County, the Minority government of Prime Minister Lester Pearson announced J.R. Donald would head a Royal Commission of Inquiry into the Cape Breton coal industry, with hearings held in 1965 and 1966. The Donald Commission recommended that a federal Crown corporation be established to acquire and manage DOSCO's coal operations, with the aim being to slowly wean the Sydney area economy off the coal industry.\n\nOn July 7, 1967 the Cape Breton Development Corporation, or DEVCO, was established to operate the mines in the interim, while phasing them out throughout the 1970s and, at the same time, develop new economic opportunities for the surrounding communities. On March 30, 1968 DEVCO expropriated DOSCO's coal mines and the S&L, settling for a payment of $12 million. At the same time, the Government of Nova Scotia took over the operation of DOSCO's integrated steel mill in Sydney, renaming the operation Sydney Steel Corporation, or SYSCO.\n\nThe S&L was reorganized as the Devco Railway.\n\nInitially, the Devco Railway continued to operate much as its predecessor, using former S&L locomotives, cars, trackage, and locomotive shops. Indeed, for several years it continued to operate under its old name of the Sydney & Louisburg Division of the Cumberland Railway. In 1972, with H.S. Haslam as general manager, the road operated of route with offices at Sydney. At that date the company owned 15 diesel locomotives and 1,100 freight cars.\n\nAs DEVCO had been created to shut down the Cape Breton coal industry, the Devco Railway did not have expansion in mind at the outset. Initial operations consisted of serving the old mines, hauling coal to the international shipping piers on Sydney Harbour (Louisbourg's piers were abandoned during the 1960s).\n\nThe line east of Glace Bay to Louisbourg fell into disuse as older mines were closed. As part of a regional economic development initiative, DEVCO created a tourist railway named the Cape Breton Steam Railway, to operate between Glace Bay and Louisbourg. In 1973, the Sydney and Louisburg Railway Historical Society was created by retired employees of that company to assist with the tourist railway and to preserve the Louisbourg station. The tourist railway used former S&L equipment and stations, however by the late 1970s it was proving uneconomic to operate and was closed. The track east of Glace Bay was abandoned at this time.\n\nThe October 1973 Yom Kippur War and the ensuing 1973 oil crisis led the federal government of Prime Minister Pierre Trudeau to re-examine all Canadian energy production, including the potential nationalization of Alberta's oil, as well as an expansion of DEVCO coal production, reversing the recommendation of the 1966 Donald Commission to phase out production and diversify the Sydney area economy. The Trudeau government sought to use its ownership of DEVCO to reverse Nova Scotia's reliance on the importation of foreign oil for generating electricity; approximately 70% of the province's electricity was generated by foreign oil by the late 1970s.\n\nNew mines were built and opened near New Waterford (Phalen and Lingan collieries) and on Boularderie Island (Prince colliery) starting in 1972. Devco Railway built a spur to serve the adjacent Phalen and Lingan mines, extending the line to serve Nova Scotia Power Incorporated's Lingan Generating Station which opened November 1, 1979.\n\nDuring the early 1980s, DEVCO built new locomotive shops at Victoria Junction, between Sydney and Glace Bay, and shut down the Glace Bay roundhouse and shops. DEVCO also built a large coal preparation and wash plant at Victoria Junction, as well as new international shipping piers on Sydney Harbour, replacing the antiquated export piers inherited from DOSCO. With federal government financing, DEVCO was in expansion mode and with the high international prices for coal, sought to produce more Cape Breton coal for export than ever before.\n\nThe Devco Railway modernized its locomotive fleet by retiring the S&L's diesels purchased second-hand during the early 1960s and purchasing General Motors Diesel Limited GP38-2s; a unique design feature of these locomotives was their ability to be used as emergency power generators for various DEVCO mines. Likewise, the coal hopper fleets were modernized, with many being purchased from the Eastern Car Company in New Glasgow.\n\nBy the late 1980s, production problems at DEVCO saw the last of the older mines inherited from DOSCO shut down, with production concentrated at Lingan, Phalen and Prince; the latter not receiving any rail service. The Point Aconi Generating Station was built by Nova Scotia Power Incorporated to receive coal from the Prince colliery directly by conveyor belt, however the Lingan and Phalen mines still hauled coal to the Victoria Junction preparation plant and then to the Lingan Generating Station.\n\nThe SYSCO steel mill stopped using DEVCO coal to produce coke as a fuel for its blast furnaces in the mid-1980s. By the late 1980s, SYSCO had modernized by changing to an electric-arc process, smelting recycled metal.\n\nProblems with flooding and roof-falls at the Lingan mine saw production cease in 1992, just months short of the colliery's 20-year design limit. The Phalen mine continued to be the only source of online traffic for the Devco Railway, however subsequent flooding and roof-falls at Phalen caused ever increasing production costs at a time of fiscal restraint by the federal government. Faced with rising subsidies, the federal government announced it was getting out of the coal industry in January 1999 by mining out the rest of Phalen by the end of the year and attempting to sell the Prince colliery.\n\nIn September 1999, Phalen colliery closed for good, with 400 employees laid off and the only on-line traffic source for the Devco Railway severed. The Prince colliery continued with production, however coal was trucked from the mine to the Victoria Junction preparation plant, from which it was then taken by rail to the Lingan Generating Station. Devco Railway also began to be used for importing some coal from locations in the United States and South America, with the international shipping piers beginning to be used in the reverse of their intended design.\n\nOn November 23, 2001, Prince colliery closed for good, after the federal government failed to entice any private sector investors to purchase the mine. DEVCO was out of the coal mining business, however for a period of approximately 1 month, it was in the coal importation business. The federal government moved swiftly to sell off assets, transferring the mine properties and mineral rights back to the provincial Department of Natural Resources. DEVCO subsequently decommissioned the Victoria Junction coal wash plant and began to immediately prepare remediation of the mine sites.\n\nOn December 18, 2001 DEVCO sold all surface assets, including the international shipping piers, railway track, railway rights-of-way, locomotives and rolling stock, and a coal storage facility and locomotive shops at Victoria Junction to 510845 New Brunswick Incorporated, a wholly owned subsidiary of Emera Inc., the holding company which owns Nova Scotia Power Incorporated (Nova Scotia Power Corporation having been privatized in 1992).\n\nEmera subsequently contracted the operation of its newly acquired DEVCO surface assets to Logistec Corporation. Logistec sub-contracted operation of the railway to the Société des chemins de fer du Québec, a Quebec-based railway holding company and short-line operating company. The new railway was called Sydney Coal Railway, although ownership of the track and other assets remains with Emera's subsidiary, 510845 New Brunswick Inc.\n"}
{"id": "2094208", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2094208", "title": "Stefan Yavorsky", "text": "Stefan Yavorsky\n\nStefan Yavorsky (, ), born Simeon Ivanovich Yavorsky () (1658), was an archbishop and statesman in the Russian Empire and the first president of the Most Holy Synod.\n\nYavorsky was born in Yavoriv, Ruthenian Voivodeship (near Lviv). He enrolled in the Kyiv-Mohyla Academy around 1673 and completed its course of study; in 1684 he traveled to Poland to continue his education, at which point he was compelled to join the Uniate church, as was common for Kievan students who wanted to study in the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth; he took the Uniate name Stanislav (). He spent five years abroad, studying philosophy in Lvov and Lublin and theology in Poznań and Vilnius, where he completed his education. In 1689 he returned to Kiev, broke from the Uniate church and returned to Eastern Orthodoxy. He took monastic vows under the name Stefan and settled at the Kiev Academy as a preacher and professor, being appointed prefect of the institution and in 1697 hegumen of the Nikolaevsky monastery (). He also began to preach, which soon made him well known in Kiev. At the beginning of 1700 he visited Moscow on church business, and when the boyar Aleksei Shein died in February Patriarch Adrian commissioned him to give the eulogy, which attracted the attention of Peter I, who was so pleased he had Yavorsky remain in Moscow and ordered a position to be found for him, as a result of which he was made archbishop of Ryazan and Murom in April. When Adrian himself died in October, Yavorsky was appointed locum tenens of the patriarchal see. \"Thus in the course of seven months Iavorsky ascended from the humble position of father superior to the highest office in the entire church. Iavorsky had never desired such an appointment and even attempted to avoid it, but Peter was unyielding [because] the prelate was not a progressive or a reformer, but he was an authoritative figure with a European education, of which there were still few in Russia\".\n\nYavorsky's life now changed dramatically. He lived in Moscow, Saint Petersburg, and Ryazan, returning to Ukraine only rarely and with the express permission of the tsar. As the head of the church, he had to deal with the struggles between the various factions in the church, and he was expected to uphold Peter's reforms. At first he did so, but eventually the reforms restricted the rights of the church that he began to oppose them, and in 1712 a sermon of his, calling the Tsarevich Alexei \"Russia's only hope\" and hinting at criticism of the tsar's personal life, so angered Peter that he forbade Yavorsky to preach in public. Yavorsky directed a commission on correcting the translation of the Bible and wrote \"The Rock of Faith\" (), a huge treatise on dogma that \"was sharply anti-Protestant in spirit\" and whose publication Peter forbade (it was published in 1728 under Peter II). In 1721 he was made first president of the newly erected Holy Synod, but the real power was held by its vice president, Peter's close collaborator Theophan Prokopovich. When Yavorsky died in the following year, Prokopovich took his place as president; shortly before his death, suspected of being involved in a publication that accused Peter of being the Antichrist, he was interrogated in his home by members of the Synod and Senate, and \"it is possible that only his death saved Iavorsky from punishment\".\n\nYavorsky was one of the most educated figures in the Russian church of his day, and throughout his life \"he aspired to a quiet life of independent literary activity rather than a great career\". Around 1685 he published his panegyric \"Hercules post Atlantem\", dedicated to Varlaam Yasinsky, archimandrite of the Kiev Pechersk Lavra; it was \"a complex rhetorical construction of Latin prose with poems in Latin and Polish\". In 1690 he published two more panegyrics to Yasinsky, \"Arctos coeli\" (Constellation of the heavens) and \"Pełnia nieubywającej chwały\" (Abundance of unlessening glory), confirming his reputation as a poet. After he became hegumen of the Nikolaevsky monastery, his sermon \"Vinograd Khristov\" (The vineyard of Christ) was published in 1698. Soon after he became head of the Russian church, he presided over the trial of Grigory Talitsky, who had proclaimed Peter the Antichrist, and his refutation of Talitsky, \"Znameniya prishestviya Antikhristova i konchiny veka\" (Signs of the arrival of the Antichrist and the end of the age), was published in 1703 and reprinted many times during the eighteenth century.\n\n"}
{"id": "2094212", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2094212", "title": "Choke (album)", "text": "Choke (album)\n\nChoke is The Beautiful South's second album. It was pushed to number 2 in the charts after the release of the South's first and only number 1 single \"A Little Time\".\n\nThe album was followed by two more singles, both of which were flops. \"My Book\", which became the band's first non top-40 single, peaked at number 43 and finally \"Let Love Speak Up Itself\", the last release from this album, only managed to reach number 51.\n\nEarlier versions of the album, regardless of format, contained only 11 tracks. The twelfth track (appearing at the end of later presses of the CD) was intended for the album from the beginning, but was removed at a late stage of production. Only in much later editions of the CD did the track finally appear, added without explanation to the end of the album. Original copies of \"Choke\" on cassette tape feature a long silence at the end of Side One, possibly indicating that this would have been the location originally intended for the track.\n\n\nAs was their usual modus operandi, \"The Beautiful South\" included unreleased material on the B-sides of the singles taken from their albums.\n\nfrom the \"A Little Time\" 12\" single and CDEP\n\nfrom the \"My Book\" 12\" single and CDEP\n\nfrom the \"Let Love Speak Up Itself\" 12\" single and CDEP\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2094214", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2094214", "title": "KG College of Arts and Science", "text": "KG College of Arts and Science\n\nThe KG College of Arts and Science (KG-CAS), in Saravanampatti, Coimbatore, India, was founded in 2005 at Coimbatore, India. It is sponsored by KG Information Systems (KGiSL) through the KGiSL Trust.\n\nThe college provides education at the undergraduate and post-graduate level, focusing on meeting the requirements for all IT professionals.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2094224", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2094224", "title": "0898 Beautiful South", "text": "0898 Beautiful South\n\n0898 Beautiful South, also referred to as 0898, is the third studio album by English band The Beautiful South. After the success of their previous work over 1989–1991, the band hired prolific record producer Jon Kelly and recorded the album at AIR Studios in London. The album contains a more \"muscular\" yet sometimes more sombre sound than their previous albums, although still entirely retains lyricist Paul Heaton's witty and bitter lyrical style. The album \"deals in fragile melodies and harmonies, soulful but low-key instrumentation, and lyrics full of subtle social commentary and humour.\" The album title refers to the 0898 premium rate dialling code associated with sex hotlines in the UK at the time.\n\nThe album was released in March 1992 by the band's record label Go! Discs. Four singles were released from the album, two of them prior to its release; \"Old Red Eyes Is Back\", \"We Are Each Other\", \"Bell Bottomed Tear\" and \"36D\". It reached number 4 on the UK Album Chart, unlike their previous two albums which reached number 2; the record company blamed this on the cover which showed ladies' faces on the back of terrapins' shells. While the first two singles – \"Old Red Eyes Is Back\" and \"We Are Each Other\" – charted in the UK at No. 22 and No. 30 respectively, third single \"Bell Bottomed Tear\" was the only Top 20 hit from the album, reaching No. 16. \"36D\" was a relative disappointment after this success, only managing No. 46 in the singles charts. \"We Are Each Other\" was also a success on American alternative rock radio and peaked at No. 10 on the Billboard Modern Rock Tracks chart in 1992. It was the band's biggest hit in the United States.\n\nThe album was a critical success, with reviewers praising its production, lyrics and distinct tone, although some critics recognise the album as being under-rated. The album appeared on numerous lists of the best albums of 1992; \"Vox\" ranked it 18th, \"NME\" ranked it 44th and Robert Christgau placed it 53rd. The album was certified \"Gold\" by the British Phonographic Industry (BPI) for sales of over 200,000 copies.\n\nAfter forming in 1989, The Beautiful South's debut album \"Welcome to the Beautiful South\", released October the same year, was a major chart success, reaching number 2 in the UK Albums Chart and featuring two top 10 hits, \"Song For Whoever\" and \"You Keep It All In\". Featuring Paul Heaton's witty lyrics and vocals from him, Dave Hemingway and Briana Corrigan, it was a critical success too, being widely hailed for \"reinserting cynicism, doubt, and biting sarcasm into pop music.\" The album was a transformation for lead singer and lyricist Paul Heaton after his previous band The Housemartins; according to Robert Christgau, he turned \"his talents to the interpersonal. The surprise was that he didn't then cop out.\" The third single from the album, \"I'll Sail This Ship Alone\", reached number 31.\n\nWorking in a short space of time, the band quickly released their second album \"Choke\" a year later in October 1990. Although it reached number 2 in the UK Albums Chart, it was not as much a critical success as its predecessor, despite drawing favourable reviews. Two singles from the album, \"My Book\" and \"Let Love Speak Up Itself\", charted outside the Top 40 of the UK Singles Chart, but the album also provided the band's only number 1 hit, a Hemingway/Corrigan duet called \"A Little Time\", and its music video, featuring the aftermath of a domestic fight, won the 1991 BRIT Award for Best Video.\n\nAs with before, the band were quick to begin work on their third album. After working with Mike Hedges on their first two albums, the band hired Jon Kelly to produce the new album, a British producer famous for working with Pele, Prefab Sprout, Deacon Blue, Heather Nova, The Levellers, Fish, Lynsey De Paul, Nolwenn Leroy, The Damned, Kate Bush, The band decamped to Air Studios, London, to record the new album, the official recording studios of Associated Independent Recording. This credit has caused confusion, as the studio closed in 1989 before officially reopening as \"AIR Lyndhurst\" in a redeveloped hall in December 1992 after a year's long work. It is unknown which of the two locations the band recorded in.\n\nAccording to Roch Pairisen of Allmusic, \"there are no big poses or walls of crunchy guitars on [the album]. Instead, the group – which includes three lead vocalists -deals in fragile melodies and harmonies, soulful but low-key instrumentation, and lyrics full of subtle social commentary and humour.\" He noted that \"at times, the group even couches itself in the guise of a smooth lounge act, rebelling against current trends by having something to say while not making a racket about it,\" and noted that producer Jon Kelly has \"contributed an incisive and full-bodied production\" to the album, \"a great improvement over the rather thin sound\" of \"Choke\". According to Craig Tomashoff and David Hiltbrand of \"Picks and Pans\", the album contains \"sweet pop music with insidious lyrics. It starts with the best pop melodies you can hum—sort of like \"Elton John Does Detroit\". Harmonious piano arrangements blend with songwriter Paul Heaton's soulful vocals and occasional backing horns to create 12 songs that work like aural lithium.\" They noted the contrast between the happy music and dark lyrics, saying \"one hit and you're happy for hours. Until you actually listen to what Heaton and his two co-lead vocalists, Dave Hemingway and Briana Corrigan, are saying. The tunes suggest light, happy odes to love. The words are dark, sardonic musings on human nature.\"\n\nAccording to \"Trouser Press\", the album \"features even more uplifting melodies and more balanced lyrics: 'Old Red Eyes Is Back', 'We Are Each Other' and the Corrigan-sung 'Bell-Bottomed Tear' benefit immeasurably by demonstrating a bit more compassion for their subjects. Heaton hits particular peaks in his dialogue songs. (He writes alternating-verse male/female numbers better than just about anyone.)\" Marie Lamie, writing in \"The Rough Guide to Rock\", said \"there are some very sombre moments here, both musically and lyrically, making something of a new direction.\" A reviewer for \"Record Rewind Play\" said \"the whole album is full of hints of the sinister, but compassion finds a way in.\"\n\nTed Kessler of \"Select\" said the first two songs \"Old Red Eyes Is Back\" and \"We are Each Other\" \"set the tone\" for the album. \"Pianos, strings and percussion are right down in the mix, the lead instruments are the gorgeous voices of Heaton, Hemingway and Briana Corrigan. There isn't a wailing guitar in sight\". \"Old Red Eyes Is Back\", described as the band's \"best song ever\" by Sputnikmusic's Nick Butler, is the tale of an \"old drunken waster looking back on his life, battling to overcome his alcohol dependency . Every time he falls off the wagon and succumbs to drink again...well, old red eyes is back.\" The song ends sadly, \"Old Red he died, and every single landlord in the district cried/An empty bottle of whiskey lying by his side...\" \"We Are Each Other\" is \"typical of the band from this period. Although a guitar is the first sound you hear on the song, it's restrained, and quickly gives way to the melody, harmony, and biting vocals that drive the song.\" It is more guitar-led than most of their output, and deals with \"a couple so close that their relationship can no longer function properly.\" Butler commented that \"the structure of the song is brilliant (this sort of attention to detail is just one of the many things that elevate The Beautiful South far beyond the vast majority of pop bands) – observe how the chorus is split into 2 halves, effectively making 2 brilliant hooks for the price of one.\" Robert Christgau considers the song to contain Heaton's \"meanest\" line, \"Closer than a sister to her baby brother/Closer than a cat to the child that she'll smother.\"\n\n\"36D\" is a scathing attack on the British glamour industry, described by Nick Butler of Sputnikmusic as \"a distant relative of 'Little Baby Nothing' by the Manic Street Preachers, though far more upbeat than that song,\" \"features Heaton addressing a woman who's got by on looks and sex alone, telling her to 'Close your legs, open your mind' (and that's just the opening line!). The chorus packs a sonic punch you wouldn't expect from the band, as Heaton and Hemmingway ask '36D, so what? Is that all that you got?'.\" \"Something that You Said\" refers to the serial murders of a lover's family (\"So if you walk into your house and she's cutting up your mother/ She's only trying to tell you that she loves you like no other\"). Kessler said that \"Hemingway and Corrigan provide us with an action replay of 'A Little Time'\" on the song, but \"this is Paul Heaton's show, and he doesn't let anyone steal it.\" The song's opening line, \"The perfect love song it has no words it only has death threats/and you can tell a classic ballad by how threatening it gets,\" compliments the \"peaceful\" music.\n\nVocal duties on \"Bell Bottomed Tear\" are handled mainly by Briana Corrigan, though Heaton does appear at points. It has been noted that \"the strengths of her voice is exploited very well here – sugary, with a slight hiccup, but always fragile and vaguely damaged.\" One reviewer said \"her character here is never made explicitly clear – she's a man who has got her pregnant, though whether she and the man are still together isn't made clear. Either way, he's ruined her life. Quietly devastating.\" \"Here it is Again\" is a \"brooding\" song, whilst \"You Play Glockenspiel, I'll Play Drums\" is \"odd\". Closing song \"When I'm 84\" encapsulates the album's \"dizzily wayward feel\" and is a song of \"innante funkiness,\" \"blessed with a groovy electronic piano and a bassline worth suing for. It contains Heaton's hedonistic and bold plans for retirement. 'Excerise you muscles?', he spits. 'I'd rather jack.'\"\n\n\"0898 Beautiful South\" was released on 30 March 1992 on CD, LP and cassette by the band's label Go! Discs in most regions, whilst it was released on 14 April in the United States. The album cover, which depicts ladies faces on the back of terrapins shells, each representing a different mood on the album, was painted by artist David Cutter, as are the numerous illustrations in the liner notes, each of which is based on a song from the album, with one illustration for each song. The illustrations for the album's four singles also appeared as the covers for those singles. The full title of the album is \"0898 Beautiful South\", but it is usually shortened to just \"0898\", which is how it appears on the back cover of the album. The spacing and typography difference on the front cover and spine can be taken to imply it should be read as \"0898\" (by) \"Beautiful South\" – two separate phrases, although the spine of the album features both the band name and the full title separately. The title refers to the 0898 premium rate dialling code associated with sex hotlines in the UK at the time.\n\nFour singles were released from the album, two of them prior to its release. \"Old Red Eyes Is Back\" was released in February 1992 and reached number 22 on the UK Singles Chart, becoming their worst charting lead single so far. It reached number 51 in the German Media Control Charts. \"We are Each Other\" was released a month later, still prior to the release of the album, and was a lesser success in the UK, only reaching number 30. However, it provided the band with their biggest hit in the United States, where it peaked at number 10 on the Billboard Modern Rock Tracks chart. The single charted at number 81 in the German Media Control Charts. \"Bell Bottomed Tear\" was released as the third single in June 1992, reaching number 16 in the UK Singles Chart, becoming the highest charting single from the album. \"36D\" was released as the final single in September 1992, reaching number 46 in the UK. In an interview at the time of the album's release, Sean Welch only imagined three singles would have been released, saying \"three should be enough, I think, for anybody to release off an album.\"\n\nThe album was not a success in the United States, although it gave the band a larger following there than before. \"Billboard\" magazine reported in July 1992 that \"although it has not yet dented the Heatseekers chart,\" the album \"was experiencing a sales burst\" in the United States. They said it was due to the band's \"well-attended\" concerts in Los Angeles and New York City and their appearance on \"The Dennis Miller Show\". In France, a limited edition contained two bonus tracks, \"His Time Ran Out\" and \"Danielle Steele (The Enemy Within)\". A limited edition box set version released in the UK included CD and cassette copies of the album alongside the band's VHS music video compilation \"The Pumpkin\".\n\nOn 11 April 1992, \"0898 Beautiful South\" entered in the UK Albums Chart at number 4, which was considered something of a disappointment after the band's previous albums both reached number 2. It stayed on the chart for 17 weeks, and was later certified \"Gold\" by the British Phonographic Industry (BPI) for sales of over 200,000 copies. The album peaked at number 47 on the Canadian Albums Chart, becoming their last album to chart there, whilst on 20 April 1992, it entered the German Album Charts at number 40, becoming their first album to chart there.\n\nThe album was released to positive reviews. Ted Kessler of \"Select\" gave the album a perfect five out of five score, saying \"under a veneer of polished pop production The Beautiful South are contrary, twisted mavericks, and \"0898\" is the bright, acceptable face of the foul beast AOR – and their best work to date\". Robert Christgau rated the album \"A–\", saying \"even more obscure stateside since he got lusher conventions, songsmith Paul Heaton does his endangered species proud. The tunes stick, and the lyrics transcend their sarcastic shtick—predictably idiosyncratic though 'You do English/Ill do sums/You break fingers/Ill break thumbs' may be, it brings you up short anyway. Peter Gabriel/Kate Bush hand Jon Kelly adds musical authenticity, and third vocalist Briana Corrigan sings lines like 'This is the woman you laid' with just the right edge of icy remorse. Introduce them to a decent drum programmer and they could be a threat.\"\n\n\"Q\" gave the album a \"Good\" rating of three stars out of five, saying \"The Beautiful South offers us boozers and losers, reshaping the world and overthrowing the government from the comfort of a bar stool.\" \"Audio\" were favourable, saying \"The Beautiful South effortlessly renders their sophisticated pop melodies and signature lyricism with silken production...wickedly clever.\" \"People\" magazine, in its \"Picks and Pans\" section, were favourable, saying \"minor melodramas aren't exactly the variety of glib pleasantries you'd expect such easygoing music to be delivering, but the ability to use the standard pop format to sneak in something new is the sign of a truly exceptional band. It's well worth taking a trip to the Beautiful South.\"\n\nThe album appeared in numerous lists of the best albums of 1992. \"Vox\" included the album at number 18 on their list of the \"Vox Albums of 1992\", \"NME\" ranked it at number 44 in its list of the top 50 \"Albums of the Year\", Robert Christgau placed the album at number 53 on the 1992 edition of his annual \"Dean's List\" of the best albums of the year, curated for the annual Pazz & Jop critics' roll. A reviewer for \"The Pansentinent League\" included the album in his list of \"My Ten Favourite Albums of the 1990s\", saying it is \"full of clever, funny, bittersweet lines and packed with memorable pop songs from start to finish.\"\n\nThe album has enjoyed a similarly favourable legacy, and some consider it to be an under-rated record. In a retrospective review, Roch Parisien of Allmusic rated the album three stars out of five, praising the band's unusual sound and Kelly's production. Colin Larkin rated the album three stars out of five in his book \"Encyclopedia of Popular Music\". In 1998, Christgau said the album was \"stronger than reviews caviled\". In 2003, Maria Lamie said that the album \"has the privilege of still being liked by its creators\". In \"The New Rolling Stone Album Guide\", Keith Harris gave the album three and a half stars out of five. In 2014, a reviewer for \"Record Review Play\" said that \"the whole album is full of hints of the sinister, as on 'Something That You Said', but compassion finds a way in (Old Red Eyes Is Back, 'Im Your Number One Fan') to provide just enough of a break from the darkness, and while theres humour, it comes in both dark and lighter shades, as on 'When Im 84'. Perhaps old age has pushed it to the back of the collection, or perhaps the unprecedented success of compilation album \"Carry on up the Charts\", which sold record numbers in record time and seemed to find a home in music collections up and down the land, big or small, just led to Beautiful South fatigue. Regardless, \"0898\" is long overdue a revisit or two.\"\n\nCorrigan chose to leave the band after the release of the album to pursue a solo career. Although her decision was partly prompted by a desire to record and promote her own material (which was not getting exposure within The Beautiful South), she had also had ethical disagreements over some of Heaton's lyrics, most notably \"Mini-correct\", \"Worthless Lie\", which he had composed for the following album \"Miaow\" (1994), but also for the \"0898 Beautiful South\" single \"36D\", which criticised the British glamour industry via scathing comments about glamour models, and she thought he should have targeted the media instead. In 1997, Hemingway admitted \"we all agree that we should have targeted the media as sexist instead of blaming the girls for taking off their tops\".\n\nThe band followed \"0898 Beautiful South\" with \"Miaow\" (1994) which was their least successful album so far, reaching only number 6 in the UK Albums Chart and receiving mixed reviews. However, the band's fortunes were revived with the release of their first greatest hits album \"Carry on up the Charts\" later that year, which became the band's first number one album in the UK and went on to become the second biggest selling album of 1994, and by the summer of 1995 it was certified as 5x platinum in the UK. Such was the album's popularity, it was claimed that one in seven British households owned a copy. The compilation featured the four singles from \"0898 Beautiful South\", bringing them wider exposure than they had in 1992. \"Old Red Eyes Is Back\" also featured on their second hits compilation, \"Solid Bronze – Great Hits\" (2001), whilst the same song appeared alongside \"36D\" on \"Soup\" (2007), a compilation of hits by both The Beautiful South and Heaton and Hemingway's previous band The Housemartins.\n\nThe first French edition distributed by Barclay contained two bonus tracks:\n\n\nAs was their usual modus operandi, \"The Beautiful South\" included unreleased material on the B-sides of the singles taken from their albums.\n\nfrom the \"Old Red Eyes Is Back\" 12\" single and CDEP\n\nfrom the \"We Are Each Other\" 12\" single and CDEP\nfrom the \"Bell Bottomed Tear\" CD1\n\nfrom the \"Bell Bottomed Tear\" CD2\n(Tracks 2 & 3 recorded live at St. Georges Hall, Blackburn, 25 April 1992)\n\nfrom the \"36D\" CD1\n\nfrom the \"36D\" CD2\n(Tracks 2, 3, & 4 recorded live at St. Georges Hall, Blackburn, 25 April124zb5 1992)\n\n\nProduction\n"}
{"id": "2094227", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2094227", "title": "Walk on Fire", "text": "Walk on Fire\n\nWalk on Fire was a British melodic rock band whose album \"Blind Faith\" (1989) yielded two minor hit singles: \"Blind Faith\" and \"Wastelands\".\n\nThe band was formed by David Cairns and Alan King in 1987, signing to UNI/MCA Records in the US, and MCA in the UK, and initially managed by Bill Curbishley. The early pre-production of the album was produced by Dave Cairns' former Secret Affair band-mate Dennis Smith, who also co-wrote one of the album tracks, \"Tell It Like It Is\" with Alan King. The album was recorded at Hook End Manor & The Virgin Manor Studios, Oxford, in the UK and produced by Walter Turbitt, engineer and producer of The Cars. It featured Steve Ferrone (drums), Keith Airey (guitar), Richard Cottle and Pete Vitesse (keyboards).\n\nThe live band featured Alan King (vocals), Michael Casswell (guitar), Trevor Thornton (drums), Phil Williams (bass) & David Cairns (keyboards). Walk on Fire toured with Foreigner, The Dan Reed Network, Ratt and Nils Lofgren and toured the UK extensively, but despite favourable reviews following the US release and over 245,000 units sold worldwide, the album was not enough of a commercial success for MCA Records to keep the band and Walk On Fire were regretfully dropped over financial issues. The band went on to record material (mainly) written and produced by Dave Cairns in 24 track recording studios in and around London for a second album but with the grunge music explosion, no label was going to sign an AOR album and the band broke up.\n\nAlan King went on to sing the lead role in Jeff Wayne's follow up to 'War of The Worlds' - \"Spartacus\" - alongside Catherine Zeta-Jones and with a cast that included Anthony Hopkins and Dave Cairns went on to be appointed Special Projects and Events Manager for Gibson Guitars USA throughout the 1990s. Dave Cairns reformed Secret Affair with Ian Page in 2009 and released their fourth studio album, \"Soho Dreams\" on I-SPY Records, in September 2012.\n\nGuitarist Michael Casswell was invited by the bassist Neil Murray to join the Queen guitarist Brian May's touring band in 1991. Casswell left the band after the band's South American tour. Having performed and recorded with the UK based Japanese blues guitarist Saiichi Sugiyama (musician), whose band also featured Phil Williams on bass, Casswell subsequently formed a band with the veteran British rock drummer Cozy Powell. Casswell co-wrote and co-produced with Powell what turned out be the drummer's last album session. The album was released as \"Especially For You\" after Powell's death in a British motorway accident. Michael Casswell died in a swimming accident in September 2016.\n\nOn 21 April 2017, the second album by Walk On Fire, \"Mind Over Matter\", was released on the AOR label, Escape Music. It was written and produced by David Cairns with additional song writing by vocalist Alan King and Thom Hardwell and featuring Michael Casswell on guitar, Phil Williams on bass, Trevor Thornton on drums and Richard Cottle on keyboards.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2094228", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2094228", "title": "Sardar Vallabhbhai National Institute of Technology, Surat", "text": "Sardar Vallabhbhai National Institute of Technology, Surat\n\nThe National Institute of Technology, Surat (NIT Surat), formally known as Sardar Vallabhbhai National Institute of Technology (SVNIT), is an public technical university established by the Parliament of India in 1961. It is one of 30 National Institutes of Technology in India recognized by the Government of India as an Institute of National Importance. It is the Anchor Institute for the Auto and Engineering sector and will be training the workforce. \nThe project is also designated as the \"Center of Excellence\" in water resources and flood management and is supported by the World Bank.\n\nThe institute organizes annual cultural and technical festivals: MindBend (technical festival) and Sparsh (cultural festival) that attract participants from all over the country and abroad.\n\nIn order to serve the growing demand for trained quality technical manpower, the Government Of India established fourteen Regional Engineering Colleges (RECs) between 1959 and 1965, now known as NITs with campuses at Surat, Allahabad, Bhopal, Calicut, Durgapur, Kurukshetra, Jamshedpur, Jaipur, Nagpur, Rourkela, srivada, Surathkal, Tiruchirappalli, and Warangal.\n\nUnder its former name, Sardar Vallabhbhai Regional College of Engineering and Technology, NIT Surat was established in June 1961 as a co-operative venture between the Government of India and the Government of Gujarat. The institute is named after India's first Home Minister, fondly known as the Ironman of India, honorable Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel.\n\nA review committee (HPRC) was set up by the Union Government in 1998 for review of RECs. The HPRC, under the chairmanship of Dr. R.A. Mashelkar, submitted its report entitled \"Strategic Road Map for Academic Excellence of Future RECs\" in 1998. Following the recommendations of HPRC, in 2002, the Union Ministry of Human Resource Development, Government of India upgraded, all the seventeen Regional Engineering Colleges (RECs) to National Institutes of Technology (NITs). On 4 December 2002 the institution was granted Deemed University status with the approval of the UGC/AICTE and was renamed Sardar Vallabhbhai National Institute of Technology.\n\nOn 5 June 2007, the Parliament of India passed the National Institutes of Technology Act declaring it an Institute of National Importance which came in effect on Independence Day 2007.\n\nNIT Surat is governed by its \"ex officio\" visitor, the honorable President of India and the NIT Council who head the NIT organizational structure. Under the NIT Council is NIT Surat's Board of Governors consisting of 12 members that includes representatives of the state of Gujarat, MHRD in addition to other members appointed by the NIT Council and the institute's senate. The Director serves under the Board of Governors, and is the school's chief academic and executive officer. Under the director and the deputy director are the deans, heads of departments, registrar and Chief Hostel Warden.\n\nThe Registrar is the chief administrative officer and oversees day-to-day operations. He is the custodian of records, funds, and other properties of the institute. Under the charge of the heads of departments (HOD) are the faculty (full-time professors as well as those of associate and assistant status). Director is the chairman of Council of Wardens and the wardens of hostels are placed under the Chief Hostel Warden of individual hostels in the organization.\n\nNIT Surat receives funding from Government of India of Rs.500 million per year. Other sources of funds include student fees and research funding by industry-sponsored projects. NIT Surat subsidizes undergraduate student fees by approximately 80% and provide scholarships to all M.Tech. students and research scholars to encourage them to pursue higher studies.\n\nThe academic policies of NIT Surat are decided by its senate. It consists of all professors of the institute, and administrative and student representatives. The senate controls and approves the curriculum, courses, examinations and results and appoints committees to look into academic matters. The teaching, training and research activities of the institute are reviewed by the senate to maintain educational standards. The director is the ex officio chairman of the senate.\n\nNIT Surat follows the credit-based system of performance evaluation, with proportional weighting of courses based on their importance. The total marks (usually out of 100) form the basis of grades, with a grade value (out of 10) assigned to a range of marks. For each semester, the students are graded by taking a weighted average from all the courses with their respective credit points. Each semester's evaluation is done independently with a cumulative grade point average (CGPA) reflecting the average performance across semesters. The medium of instruction is English.\n\nThe campus is located at Ichchhanath in the city of Surat at a distance of about 10 km from the Surat Railway Station. Public transport including buses and rickshaws connect the campus to the railway station. The main entrance is located on the northern end of the campus, facing Surat-Dumas Road 13 km from the Surat Railway Station. The campus is very near to the various entertainment hubs of Surat, it also is a much favored place for joggers and walkers who come on a regular basis to the campus in morning and evening time.\n\nIn addition to laboratories and central research facilities, NIT Surat has ten academic departments. The institute's academic facilities are located in the north-western part of the campus; these include the department buildings, laboratories, lecture halls, the central computer center and the central library. Each department has its own library, in addition to the central library.\n\nThe institute has 11 departments which focus on the following fields of applied sciences, engineering and technology:\n\n\nThe institute also has many more building spread over its campus including an administrative building that houses most of the administrative offices, a classroom complex which houses lecture halls and drawing halls.\n\nSVNIT has ten hostels with nine for boys and one for girls named after personalities of India. Each hostel is administrated by the Chief Hostel Warden. Each hostel elects representatives from the hostel residents for areas like Entertainment, Computer Facility, Network, Environment and Cultural. Two mega hostels for boys and one mega hostel for girls with large number of facilities have been constructed.\n\nEach hostel has its own mess, TV room, Sports room and computer facility. \nAdmission to most undergraduate and postgraduate courses in NIT Surat is granted through written entrance examinations. Admission to M.Tech. and Ph.D. programmes is based primarily on a personal interview, though candidates have to take written tests as well.\n\nAdmission to undergraduate programmes in all NITs is through the All India Engineering Entrance Examination now known as JEE Main. Candidates who qualify for admission through JEE Main can apply for admission in B.Tech. (\"Bachelor of Technology\") and Integrated M.Sc. (\"Master of Science\") courses at NIT Surat. The admissions to postgraduate programmes (M.Tech.) are made primarily through the Graduate Aptitude Test in Engineering (GATE). Integrated MSc program was started in the year 2007, in three branches, Applied Chemistry, Applied Physics, Applied Mathematics. This program now has 90 seats each. \n\nNIT Surat follows the reservation policy declared by the Supreme Court of India, by which 27% of seats are reserved for Other Backward Classes (OBCs), 15% for Scheduled Castes (SCs), and 7.5% for Scheduled Tribes (STs). The institute also accepts foreign nationals through scholarships awarded by the Government of India, and non-resident Indians through an independent scheme known as Direct Admission for Students Abroad (DASA).\n\nResearch in the institute is sponsored by government agencies including Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR), Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) and the Department of Science and Technology (DST); in 2008–09, research grants from these agencies exceeded one crore Indian rupees (Rs. 1,00,00,000; approx. US$200,000). The campus also boasts of having India's first solar plant to desalinate seawater. This was set up at an investment of Rs. 3,50,00,000\n\nSVNIT was ranked 58 among engineering colleges in India by National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) in 2019.\n\nNIT Surat provides on-campus residential facilities to its students, research scholars, faculty members and staff. The students live in hostels (referred to as the Bhavans) throughout their stay in the institute. Facilities such as computing infrastructure and high-speed internet are extended to all the hostels and the entire campus is connected via Gigabit LAN.\n\nThe institute has student-organised festivals like MindBend, Kashish ( for freshers )Sparsh, Quest (by ACM), Ignis (Sports festival), Grand Robo Prix-GRP and Makerspace (by DRISHTI), JoyFest (by iIndia), MMNCT, SIPHON(organized by Chemical Engineering society) and Prakriti (organised by Applied Science department).\n\nMindBend is SVNIT's annual technical festival, the largest of its kind in Gujarat. Technical competitions and events covering all areas of engineering expose students across India to practical engineering. There are competitions, guest lectures, workshops and quizzes. The robotics events of Mindbend are famous in western India.\n\nSparsh is SVNIT's annual cultural festival. It usually takes place in the second week of February. This five-day festival, the largest of its kind in South Gujarat consists of literary and debating events/competitions in the morning and gala cultural shows in the evenings. The 'Sparsh Nights' are the Singing Night, Dance and Skit Night, Fashion Night, Inaugural and the Celebrity Night. Celebrity Night has seen performances by Euphoria, Udit Narayan, Shaan, Abhijeet Bhattacharya.\n\nIn March 2007, Punjabi singer Daler Mehndi came to perform on the celebrity night. The 2008 version was graced by Mohit Chauhan and Gaurav Dagaonkar. The 2009 version saw Bombay Rockers come to the college. The 2011 version boasted of Kailash Kher's performance. SPARSH'12, which marked the golden jubilee of SVNIT Surat was a grand success with KK performing in the celebrity night. This event also marked the beginning of mega shows in Sparsh such as Stuntmania, Hypnotism, Street Dancing. An Inaugural Night was added to the event which was graced by Flute performers and singer Rishabh Srivastava. The Sparsh of 2013 witnessed stellar duo of Salim-Sulaiman along with Shrraddha Pandit perform for the celebrity night. In 2014, Javed Ali performed sang on celebrity night. Also Paradigm Shift, a local Mumbai based band performed on singing night. In 2015, music directors and singers Vishal and Shekhar lead the musical performance and Singer KK was guest of celebrity night of the 2016 edition. 2017 saw the singer composer duo Sachin-Jigar gracing Sparsh. Cultural events like kavi sammelan and musical programs such as Ghazal nights are also organized during Sparsh. The institute Literary and Debating committee organizes public speaking competitions and talent pageants.\n\nAutumnFest is SVNIT's annual Automotive-Entrepreneurial festival. In 2007 events included The Apprentice, Business baazigar, Spark the B-plan event, Strategem, and Lock stock and trade. A workshop by Mantis was part of Entru-meet '07.\n\nManoj Memorial Night Cricket Tournament (MMNCT) is a cricket tournament, organised by the students with the help of SVNIT Board of Sports, Hostel Office and Bihar Students Alumni. This tournament was first organised in 2006. It is in remembrance of a student, Manoj Kumar, who was pursuing electrical engineering in the institute and died of dengue. All the matches are played under floodlights. Nikhil Maheshwari holds the record for highest runs.\n\n\nMultiple press and media publications are managed by the institute students, which includes AS WE ARE (annual college magazine), Sammukh Hindi Magazine: \"सम्मुख\"( राजभाषा विभाग की वार्षिक पत्रिका ), and Renesa (monthly college magazine).\n\nThe SVNIT Alumni Association fosters the close relationship between the institute and its alumni. The association consists of a wide network of alumnus, students, staff, and faculty who organize events, publications and alumni meets. The group is directed by the office of the Dean of Alumni and Resource Generation.\n\nThe Alumni Association has chapters extend to all metropolitan cities in India and abroad that hold annual networking meets and class reunions.\n\n"}
{"id": "2094243", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2094243", "title": "Carroll D. Wright", "text": "Carroll D. Wright\n\nCarroll Davidson Wright (July 25, 1840 – February 20, 1909) was an American statistician. Wright is best known for his title as the first U.S. Commissioner of Labor, serving in that capacity from 1885 to 1905.\n\nWright was born at Dunbarton, New Hampshire. He attended schools in Washington, New Hampshire, from elementary through the Tubbs Union Academy. He began to study law in 1860, but in 1862 enlisted as a private in the 14th New Hampshire Volunteer Regiment to fight the American Civil War. He became colonel in 1864, and served as assistant-adjutant general of a brigade in the Shenandoah Valley campaign under General Philip Sheridan.\n\nAfter the war, he was admitted to the New Hampshire bar, and in 1867 became a member of the Massachusetts and United States' bars. From 1872 to 1873 he served in the Massachusetts Senate, where he secured the passage of a bill to provide for the establishment of trains for workers to Boston from the suburban districts. From 1873 to 1878 he was chief of the Massachusetts Bureau of Statistics of Labor. In 1880, he was appointed supervisor of the U. S. Census in Massachusetts, being also special agent of the census on the factory system. In 1885 he was commissioned by the governor to investigate the public records of the towns, parishes, counties, and courts of the state.\nHe was the first U.S. Commissioner of Labor from 1885 to 1905, and in 1893 was placed in charge of the Eleventh Census. Wright was elected a member of the American Antiquarian Society in 1893. In 1894 he was chairman of the commission which investigated the Pullman Strike of Chicago, and in 1902 was a member of the Anthracite Coal Strike Commission. He was honorary professor of social economics in the Catholic University of America from 1895 to 1904; in 1900, he became professor of statistics and social economics in Columbian University (now George Washington University).\n\nFrom 1900 to 1901, he was university lecturer on wage statistics at Harvard, and in 1903 he was a member of the Douglas Commission to investigate and recommend a program of vocational education for Massachusetts. In 1902, he was chosen president of Clark College (the undergraduate school at Clark University), Worcester, Massachusetts, where he was also professor of statistics and social economics from 1904 until his death. Dr Wright was President of the American Association for the Advancement of Science in 1903, and in 1907 received the Cross of the Legion of Honor for his work in improving industrial conditions, a similar honor (Order of Saints Maurizio e Lazzaro) having been conferred upon him in 1906 by the Italian government. He was a member of the Institute of France and an honorary member of the Imperial Academy of Science of Russia. In 1907, he was elected the second president of the National Society for the Promotion of Industrial Education. He received honorary degrees from Tufts (1883), Wesleyan (1894), Dartmouth (1897), Clark Univ. (1902), Tufts (1902), and Amherst (1905). He died on February 20, 1909.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2094245", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2094245", "title": "Cyclopean masonry", "text": "Cyclopean masonry\n\nCyclopean masonry is a type of stonework found in Mycenaean architecture, built with massive limestone boulders, roughly fitted together with minimal clearance between adjacent stones and with clay mortar or no use of mortar. The boulders typically seem unworked, but some may have been worked roughly with a hammer and the gaps between boulders filled in with smaller chunks of limestone.\n\nThe most famous examples of Cyclopean masonry are found in the walls of Mycenae and Tiryns, and the style is characteristic of Mycenaean fortifications. Similar styles of stonework are found in other cultures and the term has come to be used to describe typical stonework of this sort, such as the old city walls of Rajgir. \n\nThe term comes from the belief of classical Greeks that only the mythical Cyclopes had the strength to move the enormous boulders that made up the walls of Mycenae and Tiryns. Pliny's \"Natural History\" reported the tradition attributed to Aristotle, that the Cyclopes were the inventors of masonry towers, giving rise to the designation \"Cyclopean\".\n\nThe walls are usually founded in extremely shallow beddings carved out of the bedrock. 'Cyclopean', the term normally applied to the masonry style characteristic of Mycenaean fortification systems, describes walls built of huge, unworked limestone boulders which are roughly fitted together. Between these boulders, smaller chunks of limestone fill the interstices. The exterior faces of the large boulders may be roughly hammer-dressed, but the boulders themselves are never carefully cut blocks. Very large boulders are typical of the Mycenaean walls at Mycenae, Tiryns, Argos, Krisa (in Phocis), and the Athenian Acropolis. Somewhat smaller boulders occur in the walls of Midea, whereas large limestone slabs are characteristic of the walls at Gla. Cut stone masonry is used only in and around gateways, conglomerate at Mycenae and Tiryns and perhaps both conglomerate and limestone at Argos.\n\nHarry Thurston Peck, writing in 1898, divided Cyclopean masonry into four categories or styles:\n\n\nWhile Peck's first and possibly second and third styles conform to what archaeologists today would classify as cyclopean, the fourth now is referred to as ashlar and is not considered cyclopean. There is a more detailed description of the Cyclopean styles at the Perseus Project.\n\nPausanias described the Cyclopean walls of Mycenae and Tiryns:\n\nModern archaeologists use \"Cyclopean\" in a more restricted sense than the description by Pausanias; while Pausanias attributes all of the fortifications of Tiryns and Mycenae, including the Lion Gate, to the Cyclopes, only parts of these walls are built in Cyclopean masonry. The accompanying photograph shows the difference between Cyclopean masonry (shown in the blue rectangle), and the ashlar masonry of the Lion Gate.\n\nThe entrance of a Mycenaean citadel in the Bronze Age, Lion Gate. It demonstrated the monumentalizing occurring in Greece and showed the power of the citadel.\n\nApart from the Tirynthian and Mycenaean walls, other Cyclopean structures include some tholos tombs in Greece and the fortifications of a number of Mycenaean sites, most famously at Gla.\n\nIn Sicily there are many Cyclopean structures especially in the eastern part of the island. \n\nIn Cyprus, the Kition archaeological site in present-day Larnaca, has revealed cyclopean walls. \nIn the ancient city of Rajgriha\n(now Rajgir), Bihar, India cyclopean walls can be seen.\n\nThe Nuraghe of Bronze Age Sardinia also are described as being constructed in cyclopean masonry, as are some of the constructions of the Talaiotic Culture abounding on Menorca and present to a lesser extent on Mallorca. \n\nOne of the largest and least known is the \"acropolis\" in Alatri, an hour south of Rome. It also seems to have a portal the summer solstice sun shines and some think it is also has a number of other astronomical significant points to it. It is thought to be the second largest in Europe after Athens.\n\n"}
{"id": "2094250", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2094250", "title": "Laurel Thatcher Ulrich", "text": "Laurel Thatcher Ulrich\n\nLaurel Thatcher Ulrich (born July 11, 1938) is a Pulitzer Prize-winning American historian specializing in early America and the history of women, and a professor at Harvard University. Her approach to history has been described as a tribute to \"the silent work of ordinary people\"—an approach that, in her words, aims to \"show the interconnection between public events and private experience.\" Ulrich has also been a MacArthur Genius Grant recipient. Her most famous book, “A Midwife’s Tale,” was later the basis for a PBS documentary film.\n\nLaurel Thatcher was born July 11, 1938, in Sugar City, Idaho, to John Kenneth Thatcher, schoolteacher and superintendent as well as state legislator and farmer; and Alice Siddoway Thatcher. She graduated from the University of Utah, majoring in English and journalism, and gave the valedictory speech at commencement.\n\nIn 1971, she earned a master's degree in English at Simmons College, and subsequently a doctorate in history from the University of New Hampshire, in 1980.\n\nAfter completing her Ph.D., Ulrich joined the faculty at the University of New Hampshire, gradually working her way up from graduate assistant to tenured faculty member. She remained on the faculty at UNH through 1995. In 1991, Ulrich received both the Pulitzer Prize and the Bancroft Prize for her work of history, \"A Midwife's Tale\". In 1992, the MacArthur Foundation chose Ulrich as a MacArthur Fellow.\n\nIn 1995 she became James Duncan Phillips Professor of Early American History, and director of the Charles Warren Center of Studies in American History, at Harvard University. She also served as President of the American History Association from 2009 to 2010, and of the Mormon History Association from 2014 to 2015. As of 2018, Ulrich is 300th Anniversary University Professor, Emerita at Harvard.\n\nIn a 1976 scholarly article about little-studied Puritan funeral services, Ulrich included the phrase \"well-behaved women seldom make history.\" The phrase was picked up and soon went viral, being widely quoted and printed across the country. It continues to be seen on greeting cards, T-shirts, mugs, plaques, and bumper stickers. She recounted how her now-famous quote has taken on a life of its own in an October 2007 interview: \"It was a weird escape into popular culture. I got constant e-mails about it, and I thought it was humorous. Then I started looking at where it was coming from. Once I turned up as a character in a novel—and a tennis star from India wore the T-shirt at Wimbledon. It seemed like a teaching moment—and so I wrote a book using the title.\" \"Well-Behaved Women\" examines the ways in which women shaped history, citing examples from the lives of Rosa Parks, Christine de Pizan, Elizabeth Cady Stanton, Harriet Tubman, and Virginia Woolf.\n\n\"A Midwife's Tale\" examines the life of Northern New England midwife Martha Ballard, and provides a vivid examination of ordinary life in the early American republic, including the role of women in the household and local market economy, the nature of marriage and sexual relations, aspects of medical practice, and the prevalence of violence and crime. In this book, Ulrich effectively and simultaneously builds historical knowledge of the colonial world and Martha Ballard's biography.\n\nUlrich's revelatory history was honored with the Pulitzer Prize. \"A Midwife's Tale\" also received the Bancroft Prize (prompting a speech by Ulrich which compares her own diary and life to Ballard's), the John H. Dunning Prize, the Joan Kelly Memorial Prize, the Berkshire Conference of Women Historians Book Prize, the Society for Historians of the Early Republic Book Prize, the William Henry Welch Medal of the American Association for the History of Medicine, and the New England Historical Association Award. \"A Midwife's Tale\" was later developed into a docudrama film for the PBS series \"American Experience\" by producer Laurie Kahn-Levitt and director Richard P. Rogers. The film was based upon both Ulrich’s book and her archival process, and Ulrich served as a consultant, script collaborator, and narrator. The book also helped her secure a \"Genius Grant\" from the MacArthur Fellows Program.\n\nThe book became a landmark in women's labor history since it provides scholars with rich insights into the life of a lay American rural healer around 1800. It rests not on the observations of outsiders, but on the words of the woman herself. At first glance, Ballard's encoded, repetitive, and quotidian diary often appears trivial, but as Ulrich found, \"it is in the very dailiness, the exhaustive, repetitious dailiness, that the real power of Martha Ballard's book lies... For her, living was to be measured in doing.\" By knitting together \"ordinary\" sources to produce a meaningful, extraordinary socio-cultural narrative, Ulrich shows how a skilled practitioner functioned within the interstices of the private and public spheres. The book, divided into 10 sections, takes the \"dailiness\" of Ballard's diary and transforms it into a rich historical source.\n\nThe first entry in \"A Midwife's Tale\" puts midwifery in a broader medical context within the Kennebec region, beginning to put Ballard's diary in context of other primary sources at the time. This chapter establishes the relationship between doctors and midwives during this time period. Ulrich also introduces the concept of “social medicine” in this chapter, referring to the sharing of information among midwives and doctors. This is evident in midwife manuals that Ulrich cites.\n\nThis section shows the separate economy among women in Hallowell. Ulrich describes this economy as facilitated by the 'social webs' of production and consumption.\n\nThis entry follows an important rape trial in Hallowell. Mrs. Foster accused Judge North of raping her while her husband was away. Historians are able to contrast Martha’s account of the trial with Henry Sewall’s account. Henry Sewall opposed the Foster’s religious beliefs whereas Martha Ballard felt sympathetic toward the Fosters because other’s judged them for their religious beliefs.\n\nThis section is concerned with the three Ballard family marriages which occurred in 1792, in which Ulrich explores the understanding of marriage and sex at this time. The mid-eighteenth century is seen as a turning point in history when children began only then to choose their own partners and Ballard’s diary entries support this. It seems as though all the Ballard marriages in 1792 were courtships chosen by the children as opposed to arrangements proposed for economic benefits. Additionally, there is pre-marital sex.\n\nThis chapter details the fifty-three deliveries Ballard performed in 1793. Ulrich emphasizes that an average of one baby a week seems easy, but Martha often sat for weeks doing nothing, and for others, facing multiple births in a short time during poor weather.\n\n1796, the focus of section 6, is a physically taxing year for her and her husband. She is traveling to deliver babies in flea-infested cabins while her husband works in swamps swarming with mosquitos. Their children also have some health issues that year. In November, her husband Ephraim is at muskie-point and all of his instruments were stolen at the outset of a planned extended surveying journey - canceling the trip, he returned five days later. On the same day, consequently (or around the same time), Martha delivered her 600th baby, a milestone. Ephraim’s work continues to be difficult. Martha prays for strength to continue faring through her difficult and laborious life.\n\nThis section follows the death and autopsy of John Davis, the son of John Vassall Davis in Kennebec. Ulrich fleshes out the significance of Martha Ballard’s presence at the autopsy. Ulrich discusses the change later in 1820, a Harvard Medical School professor published a treatise stating that women should no longer be midwives as they are not educated enough to practice medicine.\n\nThis chapter tracks Martha’s entries while her husband, Ephraim Ballard, is in jail for debt. During this time, Martha’s son, Jonathan, takes over Martha and Ephraim’s house. These entries highlight Martha and Jonathan's rocky relationship. Additionally, Martha experiences a pseudo-widowhood during this time, acknowledging Ephraim’s role in the household that now must be filled by her son. This entry gives important information regarding jail time in Kennebec, as Ephraim is allowed to continue working during the day and only has to sleep at the jail at night. There is flexibility regarding cases of debt.\n\nThis section is centered around a mass murder that occurred in Hallowell. James Purrinton, one of Martha’s neighbors, murdered his wife and all of his children but one, who escaped. Martha’s entry adds another viewpoint on this historic event. Ulrich writes, “The economy of Martha’s telling contrasts with the more self-conscious narrative published (and probably composed) by Peter Edes, editor of Augusta’s Kennebec Gazette.”\n\nUlrich discusses the importance of women in field agriculture, as characterized by Martha’s garden and her records of the flowers and vegetables she planted in her time. As Martha grows older, her diary recounts fewer births. Ulrich hypothesizes that this decrease in births is due to another midwife taking over Ballard’s work.\n\n\"A Midwife's Tale\" was not only methodologically influential for scholars, but also theoretically important. By showing clearly the economic contributions that midwives made to their households and local communities, and demonstrating the organizational skill of multitasking as a source of female empowerment, the book revises the understanding of prescribed gender roles. While \"A Midwife's Tale\" is obviously limited in terms of time (1785–1812) and place (rural Maine), it has attracted sustained attention of historians—especially those interested in gender relations and wage-earning, the economic value of domestic labor, and women's work before industrialization. Ulrich invokes these contributions to historical knowledge in a 2009 interview, stating, “I don’t think anonymous people need to be included in the historical record just because of fairness or justice. Studying them more carefully makes for more accurate history,” highlighting the potential for work like hers on historically non-dominant voices. The book has also been taught as an exemplar of archival and historical work and explored in conjunction with Ulrich's own life as a historian, writer, and activist.\n\nIn January 2017, Ulrich's book \"A House Full of Females: Plural Marriage and Women's Rights in Early Mormonism,\" was released. This text explores Mormon women living in Utah during the 19th century who had entered into plural marriages. Ulrich argues that this system was both complicated and empowering for the women in these relationships.\n\nWhile she was an undergraduate student, she married Gael Ulrich, now emeritus professor of chemical engineering at the University of New Hampshire. Together they had five children: Karl (b. 1960), Melinda (b. 1963), Nathan (b. 1964), Thatcher (b. 1969), and Amy (b. 1975).\n\nUlrich self-identifies as an active feminist and Latter-day Saint (Mormon), and has written about her experiences. She also co-edited (with Emma Lou Thayne) \"All God's Critters Got a Place in the Choir\", a collection of essays about the lives of Mormon women. Ulrich was a co-founder, with Claudia Bushman, Judy Dushku, Sue Paxman and others, of Exponent II, an independent publication on the experience of Latter-day Saint women.\n\nIn late 1992, Brigham Young University's board of trustees vetoed without comment a BYU proposal to invite Ulrich to address the annual BYU Women's Conference. Ulrich did give addresses at BYU in 2004 and 2006.\n\nAt Harvard, Ulrich is actively involved in The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints; she is the adviser for the undergraduate Latter-day Saint Student Association and the Latter-day Saint campus club, and teaches an Institute of Religion class.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2094253", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2094253", "title": "Tumbledown", "text": "Tumbledown\n\nTumbledown is a 1988 BBC Television drama film set during the Falklands War. Directed by Richard Eyre, it stars Colin Firth, Paul Rhys, and David Calder.\n\nThe film centres on the experiences of Robert Lawrence MC (played by Colin Firth), an officer of the Scots Guards during the Falklands War of 1982. While fighting at the Battle of Mount Tumbledown, Lawrence is shot in the head by an Argentine sniper, and left paralysed on his left side. He then must learn to adjust to his new disability.\n\n\nThe film sparked enormous controversy when first broadcast in 1988, in part because it conveyed the flat indifference shown by government, society and public to the returning wounded from the Falkands War; this content forms much of the story, as Lawrence struggles to come to terms with his terrible injuries, and to face a life in which he cannot do the thing he is trained to do, the thing he loves: soldiering.\n\nThe film also triggered controversy by presenting an unvarnished portrait of the protagonist: for example, his joy in the brutalities of war and a stunning flashback scene toward the end which shows him exulting at the top of Mount Tumbledown. The film portrays Lawrence's love of the military life as much as it portrays his feelings of abandonment and bitterness as he tries to cope with his wounds, with little help from the government that sent him into battle.\n\nLead actor Colin Firth is reported to have said that the political left and right hated the film because it did not conform to any fixed ideology.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2094254", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2094254", "title": "SATENA", "text": "SATENA\n\nSATENA (acronym of \"Servicio Aéreo a Territorios Nacionales\") is a Colombian government owned airline based in Bogotá, Colombia. It operates domestic routes. Its main hub is El Dorado International Airport.\n\nSATENA was first established on April 12, 1962 by the President of the Republic, Alberto Lleras Camargo, who created the airline using Decree 940 in order\n\n\"\"to form an aerial transport service for the benefit of the underdeveloped regions of the country, with the object of promoting the welfare of educational campaigns, agricultural and pastoral development and the economic and social progress of such territories.\"\"\n\nIn order to achieve this under government auspices, the airline was then entrusted to the control of the Colombian Air Force, initiating its first operations with the routes Bogotá - Leticia and Leticia - Tarapacá - El Encanto - Puerto Leguízamo. The Government equipped the company with one C-54, two C-47, two Beaver L-20 aircraft, and later added two PBY Catalina amphibious aircraft, property of the Rotatory Fund of the Colombian Air Force. Later, in 1964, it added three additional C-47 and two more C-54 aircraft, all of them donated by the United States International Development Agency.\n\nIn 1965, SATENA, in coordination with the Bank of Bogotá, began a new service named \"AeroBanco\", which was created to facilitate air travel to other areas largely or completely inaccessible by road.\n\nDue to great success in the areas served by the airline, President Carlos Lleras Restrepo put into effect Law 80 of December 12, 1968 where it was decreed that SATENA would be treated as a public establishment, with all legal functions controlled by the Ministry of National Defence.\n\nIn 1972, SATENA acquired newer British-Built AVRO HS-748 turboprop aircraft capable of carrying 48 passengers. Between 1984 and 1985, the airline incorporated two Fokker F28 jet aircraft with the capacity to transport 65 passengers.\n\nSince its creation, the airline has performed many public services on behalf of the Colombian people, having provided service during crises in the country's history, as was the case of the Huila and Cauca earthquake of June 6, 1994, when SATENA performed search and rescue operations, airlifted local residents, as well as transporting needed medicines, foods and aid in general to the site of the tragedy.\n\nIn 1996, the largest modernisation of the airline began, with the arrival of six Dornier Do328 turboprop aircraft capable of carrying 32 passengers. These aircraft represent the new generation of equipment for regional routes.\n\nIn 2002, SATENA incorporated into its fleet one Embraer ERJ 145 with capacity for 50 passengers which arrived to replace the departing Fokker F28, which was reaching its maximum airframe hours.\n\nIn 2004, SATENA became the airline with the newest and most modern aerial fleet in Colombia, when it incorporated two new Embraer ERJ 145 aircraft, allowing it to perform faster and more efficient services to its mostly isolated destinations.\n\nThe new Embraer 170 will be used to increase frequencies on existing routes and to open new domestic destinations. These will include Barranquilla, Leticia, La Primavera, El Encanto and Yopal, Corozal\n\nAs of August 2019 the SATENA fleet consists of the following aircraft:\n\nAs of December 2015, the SATENA fleet consisted of the following aircraft with an average age of 11.6 years:\n\nThe last Dornier 328 was phased out by November 14, 2013. Satena also has Let L-410 Turbolet planes, operated by Searca, mostly between San Andrés and Providencia. One of the three Y-12s is to be implemented on the route. The second Y-12 is to operate between Neiva and Florencia, and the last is to be based at Medellin's Olaya Herrera Airport.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2094275", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2094275", "title": "Rae &amp; Christian", "text": "Rae &amp; Christian\n\nRae & Christian are an English production duo, consisting of Mark Rae and Steve Christian. They are also founders of the Grand Central Records label.\n\nIn 1995 Mark Rae fulfilled a long-term dream by founding Grand Central Records in Manchester. He first met sound engineer and producer Steve Christian when they both utilised the same rehearsal space in Ducie House in the Northern Quarter of Manchester. The first meeting took place when Christian, who is the production strength of the duo, walked past Rae's studio and informed him that his music was out of key. The pair embarked on a partnership that has seen them achieve critical and public acclaim for their work \n\nIn an interview with \"Pride Of Manchester\", Rae said: \n\nNaturally, this new act was the first to release records on the Grand Central Records label. Their first release was an EP, \"Pure Arithmetic\", released in June 1995 under the band name First Priority. A year after their emergence, Rae and Christian enlisted the vocal skills of Veba to add a more diverse flavour to their sound. Contributions to the Grand Central Records compilations Frying The Fat and Central Heating attracted attention from the dance music press.\n\nIn 1998, they released their debut album as Rae & Christian, \"Northern Sulphuric Soul\". The Jungle Brothers and Jeru The Damaja both contributed to the album's songs, giving them an edge over other sampling groups of the late 1990s. They undertook a heavy touring schedule, travelling with their own percussionist, double bass player, female vocalist, scratch DJ, saxophone, flute and rhodes players, to complement the skills of Rae behind the deck and Christian on guitar.\n\nAt the same time as nurturing other acts on the Grand Central Records label, their production and remixes were utilised by (Lamb, The Pharcyde, Wai Wan) and mainstream stars such as Natalie Imbruglia, Simply Red and The Manic Street Preachers. Their second album, \"Sleepwalking\" marked a change in approach, a movement towards more live instrumentation and more varied songwriting partnerships with veteran musicians such as Bobby Womack, Tania Maria and The Congos.\n\nMark and Steve released their third album in October 2013 and took the new album on the road with varied line ups to match availability with the vocal guests involved. The album was recorded over the previous four years in Yorkshire in Steve Christian's studio with additional recording and writing under taken in Mark Rae's London studio. The album features the following guests: Ed Harcourt, Kate Rogers, DJ Jazzy Jeff, Masta Ace, Mystro, Jake Emlyn, Gita Langley, Diagrams, Mark Foster, Agent 86, Mel Uye Parker and Pete Simpson.\n\n"}
{"id": "2094279", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2094279", "title": "No Other Love (1950 song)", "text": "No Other Love (1950 song)\n\n\"No Other Love\" is a popular song. \n\nThe words were written by Bob Russell. The music is credited to Paul Weston but is actually derived from Frédéric Chopin's \"Étude No. 3 in E,\" Op. 10, and is practically identical to that of the song \"Tristesse,\" a 1939 hit for French singer-actor Tino Rossi. It should not be confused with \"No Other Love\", written and composed by Broadway team Rodgers and Hammerstein.\n\nA version recorded by Jo Stafford (Weston's wife) with Weston's orchestra backing her (released by Capitol Records as catalog number 1053), reached #8 on the \"Billboard\" charts in 1950. The piano artistry of George Greeley is also credited on the recording. This version of the song was featured heavily in the trailers and final sound-track for Paul Thomas Anderson's 2012 film \"The Master\". It is also featured in Todd Haynes's 2015 film, \"Carol\". Instrumental versions have been featured prominently in television as well, notably in the finale of the American cartoon Futurama, and as a recurring musical theme during the final episodes of the 2003 version of the Japanese anime Fullmetal Alchemist.\n\nThe French singer Serge Gainsbourg published the song \"Lemon Incest,\" with his own lyrics but set to the same Chopin tune. Sung as a duet with his daughter Charlotte Gainsbourg, it caused a scandal at the time. \n\nThe Ambassadors of Harmony men's barbershop chorus won the Barbershop Harmony Society 2012 Chorus Championship singing an a cappella arrangement. \n"}
{"id": "2094306", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2094306", "title": "Nikon EM", "text": "Nikon EM\n\nThe Nikon EM is a beginner's level, interchangeable lens, 35 mm film, single lens reflex (SLR) camera. It was manufactured by Nippon Kogaku K. K. (today Nikon Corporation) in Japan from 1979 to 1982 (available new from dealer stock until circa 1984). The camera was designed for and marketed to the growing market of new women photographers then entering the SLR buyer's market. The EM uses a Seiko MFC-E focal plane shutter with a speed range of 1 to 1/1000 second plus Bulb and flash X-sync of 1/90 second. It is high, wide, deep and weighed . Unlike most Nikons of the time, it was available only in black. The EM has no full manual exposure mode capability, but instead was intended to be used by inexperienced photographers who could not easily master the intricacies of shutter speeds and f-stops. There were also significant changes to the EM's mechanical and electrical components to reduce its production cost relative to previous Nikon cameras: dimensional tolerances weren't as tight, there were no ball bearings in the film advance mechanism, and no high-quality titanium shutter. The introductory US list price for the body plus normal lens was only $231.\n\nThe EM accepts nearly all lenses with the Nikon F bayonet mount introduced in 1959, and supports the automatic indexing (AI) feature introduced in 1977. The contemporary Nikon-made AI lenses were the Nikkor AI-S, Nikkor AI and Nikon Series E types. The AF-S Nikkor, AF-I Nikkor, AF Nikkor D and AF Nikkor autofocus lenses are also AI types. Nikon's most recent 35 mm film SLR lenses, the AF Nikkor G type introduced in 2000, lack an aperture control ring, and the AF Nikkor DX type (2003) with image circles sized for Nikon's digital SLRs will mount but will not function properly. IX Nikkor lenses introduced in 1996 for Nikon's Advanced Photo System SLRs must not be mounted to an EM, as their rear elements will intrude far enough into the mirror box to cause damage.\n\nBeginning in 1977 with the advanced amateur Nikon FM, there was a complete overhaul of the entire Nikon SLR line. The 1970s and 1980s were an era of intense competition among major SLR brands Nikon, Canon, Minolta, Pentax and Olympus. Between 1975 and 1985 there was a shift away from heavy all-metal manual mechanical camera bodies to much more compact bodies with housings made of lighter materials and electronic automation controlled by integrated circuits. Because of rapid advances in electronics, the brands continually leapfrogged each other with models having new or more automatic features. The industry was trying to expand out from the saturated high-end professional market and appeal to the large mass of amateur photographers who wanted to move up from compact automatic leaf-shutter rangefinder cameras to an SLR, but were intimidated by the need to learn the details of operating a traditional SLR.\n\nAlthough Nikon cameras like the F2 of 1971 were highly regarded by professional photographers, the F2's bulk, expense, and intricacy made it a slow seller to most amateurs and beginners. Although Nikon's mid-level Nikkormat FT (1965) and EL (1972) camera series were made almost as well as the Nikon F and F2, their relatively high price turned amateurs toward less expensive models from other manufacturers.\nThe Nikon EM formed the base of the new line. On introduction it was the smallest and cheapest Nikon SLR ever made. It was an electromechanically-controlled, manual-focus camera powered by button batteries. The EM featured a lightweight, compact copper-aluminum alloy body and fiberglass-reinforced polycarbonate plastic top and bottom covers, plus aperture priority semiautomatic exposure control governed by a built-in 60/40 percent centerweighted, silicon photodiode light meter. A left side viewfinder galvanometer needle pointer indicated the exposure on a shutter speed scale. The viewfinder also had Nikon's standard 3 mm split image rangefinder and 1 mm microprism collar focusing aids, but the focus screen was fixed. The viewfinder is dimmer than those in the semi-professional Nikons since the expensive prisms of the latter were not used. The camera is also fitted with a low-light exposure warning in the form of an audible 'beep'.\n\nAccessories for the EM included a highly automated dedicated electronic flash unit, the Nikon SB-E (guide number 56/17 (feet/meters) at ASA 100) and a very small power winder, the Nikon MD-E (motorized film advance at 2 frames per second). There was also a new Nikon Series E range of lenses. The Series E lens line up in 1980 included a 28 mm ƒ/2.8 wide angle, a 35 mm ƒ/2.5 semi-wide angle, a 50 mm ƒ/1.8 normal, a 100 mm ƒ/2.8 short telephoto and a 75–150 mm ƒ/3.5 zoom, with the subsequent addition of a 70–210 mm ƒ/4 zoom, and a 135 mm ƒ/2.8 medium telephoto. These lenses were intended to enhance the EM's appeal to new users, as inexpensive but good quality alternatives to expensive Nikkor-branded lenses.\n\nThe EM also had one very rare feature for an electronically controlled camera. Nippon Kogaku's philosophy that a camera must always work when called upon resulted in the EM's backup ability to operate without batteries, albeit in a limited fashion: mechanical control with one available fixed shutter speed (1/90 second, marked \"M90\") or fully-manual, operator-controlled open-shutter duration marked \"B\" for \"Bulb\", and without the light meter. A little-known feature of the EM is that when the battery is removed, the \"Auto\" setting produces a shutter speed of approximately 1/1000 sec. This is documented in the factory repair manual.\n\nThe EM and its E-system accessories were Nippon Kogaku's first attempt to reach the low end of the SLR market. Called internally “the Nikon for women”, the EM was designed to provide style, with its exterior contours designed Italian automobile stylist Giorgetto Giugiaro); convenience with a system of dedicated accessories; as much ease of use and automation as was possible in 1979; low cost by dint of a simplified manufacturing process, and the prestige of the Nikon name prominently displayed on the pentaprism housing.\n\nThe Nikon EM and its later offshoots the FG and FG-20 were a sales and marketing failure for Nikon. Traditional Nikon owners shunned their cheap construction and lack of manual exposure control. The expected female beginner photographer market also failed to appear, as these photographers rejected the implicit condescension of an aperture-priority-only EM, and instead bought either higher-priced Nikons or other-brand cameras. The less-expensive Series E lenses marketed with the camera also came in for heavy criticism, and Nikon soon dropped the entire line.\n\nDespite its cheaper construction quality, the EM has proved to be as reliable over the years as more expensive Nikons of the era. Although the Series E lenses were unpopular with Nikon buyers, several of the Series E lenses exhibited excellent performance, particularly the 50 mm ƒ/1.8, the 100 mm ƒ/2.8, and the 75–150 mm ƒ/3.5 zoom. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "2094329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2094329", "title": "List of high schools in New Mexico", "text": "List of high schools in New Mexico\n\nThis is a list of high schools in the state of New Mexico.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2094331", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2094331", "title": "Thioamide", "text": "Thioamide\n\nA thioamide (rarely, thionamide, but also known as thiourylenes) is a functional group with the general structure R–CS–NR′R″, where R, R′, and R″ are organic groups. They are analogous to amides but they exhibit greater multiple bond character along the C-N bond, resulting in a larger rotational barrier. One of the best-known thioamides is thioacetamide, which is used as a source of the sulfide ion and is a building block in heterocyclic chemistry.\n\nThioamides or anti-thyroid drugs are also a class of drugs that are used to control thyrotoxicosis.\n\nThioamides are typically prepared by treating amides with phosphorus sulfides such as phosphorus pentasulfide and, in more specialized applications, Lawesson's reagent. An alternative route entails the reaction of nitriles with hydrogen sulfide:\n\nThe Willgerodt-Kindler reaction also affords benzylthioamides.\n\nThe CNHS core of thioamides is planar. Using thioacetamide as representative: the C-S, C-N, and C-C distances are 1.68, 1.31, and 1.50 Å, respectively. The short C-S and C-N distances indicate multiple bonding.\n\nThioamides are also a class of drugs that are used to control thyrotoxicosis. \n\nThioamides have been incorporated into peptides as isosteres for the amide bond. Peptide modifications are analogues of the native peptide, which can reveal the structure-activity relationship (SAR). Analogues of peptides can also be used as drugs with an improved oral bioavailability. \nThioamides inhibit the enzyme thyroid peroxidase in the thyroid, reducing the synthesis of triiodothyronine (T) and thyroxine (T), thereby blocking uptake of iodotyrosines from the colloid. They also block iodine release from peripheral hormone. Maximum effects occur only after a month, since hormone depletion is caused by reduced synthesis, which is a slow process.\n\nBecause thioamides can penetrate the placental barrier, caution is advised when used during pregnancy. Ten percent of patients report skin eruptions (such as macules and papules), urticaria, dermatitis, fever, and arthralgia; 0.03% of all patients develop agranulocytosis.\n\nMembers of the thioamide group include methimazole, carbimazole (converted \"in vivo\" to methimazole), and propylthiouracil.\n"}
{"id": "2094337", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2094337", "title": "William Vincent Wallace", "text": "William Vincent Wallace\n\n(William) Vincent Wallace (11 March 181212 October 1865) was an Irish composer and musician. In his day, he was famous on three continents as a double virtuoso on violin and piano. Nowadays, he is mainly remembered as an opera composer of note, with key works such as \"Maritana\" (1845) and \"Lurline\" (1847/60), but he also wrote a large amount of piano music (including some virtuoso pieces) that was much in vogue in the 19th century. His more modest output of songs and ballads, equally wide-ranging in style and difficulty, was also popular in his day, some numbers being associated with famous singers of the time.\n\nWallace was born at Colbeck Street, Waterford, Ireland. Both of his parents were Irish; his father, Spencer Wallace of County Mayo, one of four children, who was born in Killala, County Mayo in 1789, became a regimental bandmaster with the North Mayo Militia based in Ballina. William was born while the regiment was stationed for one year in Waterford, one of several successive postings in Ireland and the UK. The family returned to Ballina some four years later, in 1816, and William spent his formative years there, taking an active part in his father's band and already composing pieces by the age of nine for the band recitals.\n\nThe band, having a reputation for high standards, apart from regimental duties would have featured at social events in big houses in the area. Under the tuition of his father and uncle, he wrote pieces for the bands and orchestras of his native area. Wallace became accomplished in playing various band instruments before the family left the Army in 1826 (their regiment then being the 29th Foot), moving from Waterford to Dublin, and becoming active in music in the capital.\nWallace learned to play several instruments as a boy, including the violin, clarinet, organ, and piano. In 1830, at the age of 18, he became organist of the Roman Catholic Cathedral at Thurles, County Tipperary, and taught music at the Ursuline Convent there. He fell in love with a pupil, Isabella Kelly, whose father consented to their marriage in 1832 on condition that Wallace become a Roman Catholic. The couple soon moved to Dublin, where Wallace was employed as a violinist at the Theatre Royal.\n\nEconomic conditions in Dublin having deteriorated after the Act of Union of 1800, the whole Wallace family decided to emigrate to Australia in 1835. Wallace, together with his wife Isabella and young son, Willy, travelled as free emigrants from Liverpool in July. His father, with his second wife Matilda and one child, travelled with the rest of the family, Elizabeth, a soprano, and Wellington, a flautist, as bounty emigrants from Cork that autumn. The composer's party first landed at Hobart, Tasmania in late October, where they stayed several months, and then moved on to Sydney in January 1836, where, following the arrival of the rest of the family in February, the Wallaces opened the first Australian music academy in April. Wallace had already given many celebrity concerts in Sydney, and, being the first virtuoso to visit the Colony, became known as the \"Australian Paganini\". His sister Elizabeth, at age 19, in 1839 married an Australian singer John Bushelle, with whom she gave many recitals before his early death in 1843 on a tour of van Diemen's Land. Wallace was also active in the business of importing pianos from London, but his main activity involved many recitals in and around Sydney under the patronage of the Governor, General Sir Richard Bourke. The most significant musical events of this period were two large oratorio concerts at St. Mary's (Roman Catholic) Cathedral in Sydney in 1836 and 1838, on behalf of the organ fund, which were directed by Wallace, and which utilized all the available musical talent of the Colony, including the recently formed Philharmonic [Choral] Society.\n\nIn 1838, he separated from his wife, and began a roving career that took him around the globe. Wallace claimed that from Australia he went to New Zealand on a whaling-voyage in the South seas and while there encountered the Maori tribe Te Aupouri, and having crossed the Pacific, he visited Chile, Argentina, Peru, Jamaica, and Cuba, giving concerts in the large cities of those countries. In 1841, he conducted a season of Italian opera in Mexico City. Moving on to the United States, he stayed at New Orleans for some years, where he was feted as a virtuoso on violin and piano, before reaching New York, where he was equally celebrated, and published his first compositions (1843–44).\nHe arrived in London in 1845 and made various appearances as a pianist. In November of that year, his opera \"Maritana\" was performed at Drury Lane with great success, and was later presented internationally, including Dublin (1846), Vienna, Austria (1848), and in Australia. Wallace's sister, Elisabeth, appeared at Covent Garden in the title role in 1848. \"Maritana\" was followed by \"Matilda of Hungary\" (1847), \"Lurline\" (1847/60), \"The Amber Witch\" (1861), \"Love's Triumph\" (1862) and \"The Desert Flower\" (1863) (based on the libretto of Halévy's \"Jaguarita l'Indienne\").\nHe also published numerous compositions for the piano.\n\nVincent Wallace was a cultivated man and an accomplished musician, whose work as an operatic composer, at a period by no means encouraging to music in England, has a distinct historical value. Like Michael William Balfe, he was born an Irishman, and his reputation as one of the few composers known beyond the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland at that time is naturally coupled with Balfe's.\n\nIn 1854, Wallace became an American citizen after a (most likely common-law) marriage in New York with the German-born pianist Hélène Stoepel, sister of composer Robert Stoepel. In New York, in 1843–44, he had been associated with the early concert seasons of the New York Philharmonic Society, and in 1853 was elected an Honorary (Life) Member of the Society. In later years, having returned to Europe for the premieres of his later operas, he developed a heart condition, for which he received treatment in Paris in 1864. He died in poor circumstances at the Château de Bagen, Sauveterre de Comminges, in the Haute Garonne (the home of Hélène's sister, Marie-Therese, Baroness de Saintegeme), on 12 October 1865, leaving two widows, a son, Willy, from his first marriage who died in 1909, and two sons by Hélène, Clarence Sutherland and Vincent St. John, the latter of whom, faced with a terminal condition in the French hospital in San Francisco in 1897, committed suicide. Wallace was buried in Kensal Green Cemetery, London; the epitaph on his recently refurbished headstone (from 2007) now reads \"Music is an art that knows no locality but heaven – Wm. V. Wallace\".\n\nOpera\n\nOrchestral music\n\nSongs for voice and piano\n\nPiano music\n\n\nOpera recordings\n\nOther vocal recordings\n\nPiano recordings\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2094340", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2094340", "title": "Tia Texada", "text": "Tia Texada\n\nTia Texada (born December 14, 1971) is an American actress. She is best known for her role as Sgt. Maritza Cruz on the NBC series \"Third Watch\", and her recurring role as an undercover agent Ribera on \"The Unit\" for CBS. Other roles include, \"In Plain Sight\", \"Saving Grace\", \"Chuck\" for NBC, HBO's \"Mind of the Married Man\", \"Everybody Hates Chris\", \"The Amazing Spider-Man\" feature film,\" Batman Beyond, Static Shock, Firebreather\", and \"Handy Manny\". She was the voice of Maybelline New York for 15 years, the number-one selling cosmetic brand in the world, and during her campaign of \"Maybe Shes Born With it... Maybe It's Maybelline...\", it was named Brand of the Year and Launch of the Year for Lash Sensational. She was first female live announcer for the Espy Awards, where she worked alongside Justin Timberlake, Jamie Foxx, LeBron James, and Samuel L. Jackson for seven years. She was the voice of the winning Golden Trailer award for \"RoboCop \"feature film. Tia was the voice for launching Super Bowl 50 for \"The NFL Today\" on CBS\", Flesh and Bone\" for Starz, Lindt Gold Bunny, Zales, Unstoppable Collection, JC Penney World Cup Soccer IS for Girls, World Series of Poker Lady Luck for ESPN, and Skittles 'Taste the Rainbow'. Tia was born with severe strabismus and after surgery to correct this and wearing an eye patch, she took an acting class to help with her shyness, which led to her career as an actress.\n\nTexada was born in Louisiana.\n\nTexada's appearances include guest-starring roles in episodes of \"In Plain Sight\", \"Chuck\" (\"Chuck Versus the Coup d'Etat\"), \"Saving Grace\", \"Everybody Hates Chris\", \"The Unit\", and \"Criminal Minds\". She played Sgt. Maritza Cruz in the NBC Drama \"Third Watch\" in the last three of its six seasons.\n\nShe also has appeared in movies such as \"From Dusk Till Dawn\" (1996), \"Paulie\" (1998), \"Nurse Betty\" (2000), \"Bait\" (2000), \"Thirteen Conversations About One Thing\" (2001), \"Glitter\" (2001), \"Phone Booth\" (2003), and \"Spartan\" (2004).\n\nTexada also has a singing career, and her songs have been featured on shows such as \"Dawson's Creek\". She also played at the Lilith Fair tour in 1998.\n\nShe played the voice of Isabel Vasquez in the TV movie \"Firebreather\". Texada has lent her voice to the animated series \"The Wild Thornberrys\", and \"Static Shock\", as well as television commercials. She is currently the voice of Elena Validus on the animated show \"\" as Alyssa Diaz's voice double.\n\nTexada has also done layouts for magazines and has been featured in the men's magazines \"FHM\" and \"Maxim\".\n\nShe appeared in \"The Amazing Spider-Man\", where she is accidentally stripped out of her top by Peter Parker.\n\nShe also appeared as guest-star in the Freeform television series \"Stitchers\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2094345", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2094345", "title": "Armero tragedy", "text": "Armero tragedy\n\nThe Armero tragedy ( ) was one of the major consequences of the eruption of the Nevado del Ruiz stratovolcano in Tolima, Colombia, on November 13, 1985. After 69 years of dormancy, the volcano's eruption caught nearby towns unaware, even though the government had received warnings from multiple volcanological organizations to evacuate the area after the detection of volcanic activity two months earlier.\n\nAs pyroclastic flows erupted from the volcano's crater, they melted the mountain's glaciers, sending four enormous lahars (volcanically induced mudflows, landslides, and debris flows) down its slopes at . The lahars picked up speed in gullies and engulfed the town of Armero, killing more than 20,000 of its almost 29,000 inhabitants. Casualties in other towns, particularly Chinchiná, brought the overall death toll to 23,000. Footage and photographs of Omayra Sánchez, a young victim of the tragedy, were published around the world. Other photographs of the lahars and the impact of the disaster captured attention worldwide and led to controversy over the degree to which the Colombian government was responsible for the disaster. A banner at a mass funeral in Ibagué read, \"The volcano didn't kill 22,000 people. The government killed them.\"\n\nThe relief efforts were hindered by the composition of the mud, which made it nearly impossible to move through without becoming stuck. By the time relief workers reached Armero twelve hours after the eruption, many of the victims with serious injuries were dead. The relief workers were horrified by the landscape of fallen trees, disfigured human bodies, and piles of debris from entire houses. This was the second-deadliest volcanic disaster of the 20th century, surpassed only by the 1902 eruption of Mount Pelée, and is the fourth-deadliest volcanic event recorded since 1500. The event was a foreseeable catastrophe exacerbated by the populace's unawareness of the volcano's destructive history; geologists and other experts had warned authorities and media outlets about the danger over the weeks and days leading up to the eruption. Hazard maps for the vicinity were prepared, but poorly distributed. On the day of the eruption, several evacuation attempts were made, but a severe storm restricted communications. Many victims stayed in their houses as they had been instructed, believing that the eruption had ended. The noise from the storm may have prevented many from hearing the sounds of the eruption until it was too late.\n\nNevado del Ruiz has erupted several times since the disaster, and continues to threaten up to 500,000 people living along the Combeima, Chinchiná, Coello-Toche, and Guali river valleys. A lahar (or group of lahars) similar in size to the 1985 event might travel as far as from the volcano, and could be triggered by a small eruption. To counter this threat, the Colombian government established a specialized office which promotes awareness of natural threats. The United States Geological Survey also created the Volcano Disaster Assistance Program and the Volcano Crisis Assistance Team, which evacuated roughly 75,000 people from the area around Mount Pinatubo before its 1991 eruption. In 1988, three years after the eruption, Dr. Stanley Williams of Louisiana State University stated that, \"With the possible exception of Mount St. Helens in the state of Washington, no other volcano in the Western Hemisphere is being watched so elaborately\" as Nevado del Ruiz. Many of Colombia's cities have programs to raise awareness of natural disaster planning programs which have helped save lives in natural disasters. Near Nevado del Ruiz in particular, locals have become wary of volcanic activity: when the volcano erupted in 1989, more than 2,300 people living around it were evacuated.\n\nArmero, located from the Nevado del Ruiz volcano and from Colombia's capital of Bogotá, was the third largest town in Tolima Department, after Ibagué and Espinal. A prominent farming town before the eruption, it was responsible for roughly one-fifth of Colombia's rice production, and for a large share of the cotton, sorghum, and coffee crops. Much of this success can be attributed to Nevado del Ruiz, as the fertile volcanic soil had stimulated agricultural growth.\n\nBuilt on top of an alluvial fan that had been host to historic lahars, the town was previously destroyed by a volcanic eruption in 1595 and by mudflows in 1845. In the 1595 eruption, three distinct Plinian eruptions produced lahars that claimed the lives of 636 people. During the 1845 event, 1,000 people were killed by earthquake-generated mudflows near the Magdalena River.\n\nNevado del Ruiz has undergone three distinct eruptive periods, the first beginning 1.8 million years ago. During the present period (beginning 11,000 years ago), it has erupted at least twelve times, producing ashfalls, pyroclastic flows, and lahars. The historically recorded eruptions have primarily involved a central vent eruption (in the caldera) followed by an explosive eruption, then the formation of lahars. Ruiz's earliest identified Holocene eruption was in about 6660 BC, and further eruptions occurred around 1245, 850, 200 BC and in about 350, 675, in 1350, 1541 (perhaps), 1570, 1595, 1623, 1805, 1826, 1828 (perhaps), 1829, 1831, 1833 (perhaps), 1845, 1916, December 1984 through March 1985, 1987 through July 1991, and possibly in April 1994. Many of these eruptions involved a central vent eruption, a flank vent eruption, and a phreatic (steam) explosion. Ruiz is the second-most active volcano in Colombia after Galeras.\n\nOne week before the eruption, the Palace of Justice siege took place. The assailants (M-19 a Marxist, Terrorist Insurgency group) planned to hold a trial involving Colombian President Belisario Betancur. He refused to participate and sent the national army into the building. The attackers were holding several hundred hostages, including the 24 Supreme Court justices and 20 other judges. In the ensuing battle between the two forces, more than 75 hostages died (including 11 judges). This disaster, coupled with the Armero tragedy, spurred the Colombian government to predict and prepare for a broad range of threats.\n\nIn late 1984, geologists noticed that seismic activity in the area had begun to increase. Increased fumarole activity, deposition of sulfur on the summit of the volcano, and phreatic eruptions also alerted geologists to the possibility of an eruption. Phreatic events, when rising magma encounters water, continued well into September 1985 (one major event took place on September 11, 1985), shooting steam high into the air. Activity began to decline in October, probably because the new magma had finished ascending into Nevado del Ruiz's volcanic edifice.\n\nAn Italian volcanological mission analyzed gas samples from fumaroles along the Arenas crater floor and found them to be a mixture of carbon dioxide and sulfur dioxide, indicating a direct release of magma into the surface environment. Publishing a report for officials on October 22, 1985, the scientists determined that the risk of lahars was unusually high. To prepare for the eruption, the report gave several simple preparedness techniques to local authorities. Another team gave the local officials seismographs, but no instructions on how to operate them.\n\nVolcanic activity increased again in November 1985 as magma neared the surface. Increasing quantities of gases rich in sulfur dioxide and elemental sulfur began to appear in the volcano. The water content of the fumaroles' gases decreased, and water springs in the vicinity of Nevado del Ruiz became enriched with magnesium, calcium and potassium, leached from the magma.\n\nThe thermodynamic equilibration temperatures, corresponding to the chemical composition of the discharged gases, ranged from ; this is a measure of the temperature at which the gases equilibrated within the volcano. The extensive degassing of the magma caused pressure to build up inside the volcano in the space above the magma, which eventually resulted in the explosive eruption.\n\nIn September 1985, as earthquakes and phreatic eruptions rocked the area, local officials began planning for an evacuation. In October, a hazard map was finalized for the area around Nevado del Ruiz. This map highlighted the danger from falling material—including ash and rock—near Murillo, Santa Isabel, and Libano, as well as the threat of lahars in Mariquita, Guayabal, Chinchiná and Armero.\n\nThe map was poorly distributed to the people at high risk from Ruiz: many survivors had never heard of it, even though several of the country's major newspapers featured versions of the map. Henry Villegas of INGEOMINAS (Colombian Institute of Mining and Geology) stated that the hazard maps clearly demonstrated that Armero would be affected by the lahars, but that the map \"met with strong opposition from economic interests.\" He added that because the map was not prepared long before the eruption, mass production and distribution of it in time was difficult.\n\nAt least one of the hazard maps published in the prominent \"El Espectador\" newspaper in Bogotá included glaring errors. Without proper graphic scaling, it was unclear how big the map's hazard zones really were. The lahars on the map did not have a distinct ending point, and the main threat seemed to be from pyroclastic flows, not from mudflows. Though the map was colored blue, green, red, and yellow, there was no key to indicate what each color represented, and Armero was located in the green zone (believed to indicate the safest area).\n\nAnother map published by the \"El Tiempo\" newspaper featured illustrations which \"gave a perception of topography to the public unfamiliar with maps, allowing them to relate hazard zones to the landscape.\" In spite of this presentation that was keyed to the audience, the map ended up a more artistic representation of the risk than a purely scientific one.\n\nThe day of the eruption, black ash columns erupted from the volcano at approximately 3:00 pm local time. The local Civil Defense director was promptly alerted to the situation. He contacted INGEOMINAS, which ruled that the area should be evacuated; he was then told to contact the Civil Defense directors in Bogotá and Tolima. Between 5:00 and 7:00 pm, the ash stopped falling, and local officials, including the town priest Augusto Osorio, instructed people to \"stay calm\" and go inside. Around 5:00 pm an emergency committee meeting was called, and when it ended at 7:00 pm, several members contacted the regional Red Cross over the intended evacuation efforts at Armero, Mariquita, and Honda.\n\nThe Ibagué Red Cross contacted Armero's officials and ordered an evacuation, which was not carried out because of electrical problems caused by a storm. The storm's heavy rain and constant thunder may have overpowered the noise of the volcano, and with no systematic warning efforts, the residents of Armero were completely unaware of the continuing activity at Ruiz. At 9:45 pm, after the volcano had erupted, Civil Defense officials from Ibagué and Murillo tried to warn Armero's officials, but could not make contact. Later they overheard conversations between individual officials of Armero and others; famously, a few heard the Mayor of Armero speaking on a ham radio, saying \"that he did not think there was much danger\", when he was overtaken by the lahar.\n\nAt 9:09 p.m., on November 13, 1985, Nevado del Ruiz ejected dacitic tephra more than into the atmosphere. The total mass of the erupted material (including magma) was 35 million metric tons, only three percent of the amount that erupted from Mount St. Helens in 1980. The eruption reached 3 on the Volcanic Explosivity Index. The mass of the ejected sulfur dioxide was about 700,000 metric tons, or about two percent of the mass of the erupted solid material, making the eruption unusually sulfur rich.\n\nThe eruption produced pyroclastic flows that melted summit glaciers and snow, generating four thick lahars that raced down river valleys on the volcano's flanks, destroying a small lake that was observed in Arenas' crater several months before the eruption. Water in such volcanic lakes tends to be extremely salty, and may contain dissolved volcanic gases. The lake's hot, acidic water significantly accelerated the melting of the ice, an effect confirmed by the large amounts of sulfates and chlorides found in the lahar flow.\n\nThe lahars, formed of water, ice, pumice, and other rocks, incorporated clay from eroding soil as they traveled down the volcano's flanks. They ran down the volcano's sides at an average speed of , dislodging rock and destroying vegetation. After descending thousands of meters down the side of the volcano, the lahars followed the six river valleys leading from the volcano, where they grew to almost four times their original volume. In the Gualí River, a lahar reached a maximum width of .\n\nSurvivors in Armero described the night as \"quiet\". Volcanic ash had been falling throughout the day, but residents were informed it was nothing to worry about. Later in the afternoon, ash began falling again after a long period of quiet. Local radio stations reported that residents should remain calm and ignore the material. One survivor reported going to the fire department to be informed that the ash was \"nothing\".\n\nDuring the night, the electrical power suddenly turned off and the radios went silent. Just before 11:30 p.m., a huge stream of water swept through Armero; it was powerful enough to flip cars and pick up people. A loud roar could be heard from the mountain, but the residents were panicked over what they believed to be a flood.\nAt 11:30 p.m., the first lahar hit, followed shortly by the others. One of the lahars virtually erased Armero; three-quarters of its 28,700 inhabitants were killed. Proceeding in three major waves, this lahar was deep, moved at , and lasted ten to twenty minutes. Traveling at about , the second lahar lasted thirty minutes and was followed by smaller pulses.\n\nA third major pulse brought the lahar's duration to roughly two hours. By that point, 85 percent of Armero was enveloped in mud. Survivors described people holding on to debris from their homes in attempts to stay above the mud. Buildings collapsed, crushing people and raining down debris.\n\nThe front of the lahar contained boulders and cobbles that would have crushed anyone in their path, while the slower parts were dotted by fine, sharp stones which caused lacerations. Mud moved into open wounds and other open body parts — the eyes, ears, and mouth — and placed pressure capable of inducing traumatic asphyxia in one or two minutes upon people buried in it. Martí and Ernst state in their work \"Volcanoes and the Environment\" that they believe that many who survived the lahars succumbed to their injuries as they were trapped, or contracted hypothermia, though the latter is unlikely, given that survivors described the water as warm.\n\nAnother lahar, which descended through the valley of the Chinchiná River, killed about 1,800 people and destroyed 400 homes in Chinchiná. In total, more than 23,000 people were killed, approximately 5,000 were injured, and 5,000 homes throughout thirteen villages were destroyed. Some 230,000 people were affected, were disrupted, and there were nearly 20,000 survivor-refugees. The Armero tragedy, as the event came to be known, was the second-deadliest volcanic disaster of the 20th century, surpassed only by the 1902 eruption of Mount Pelée, and is the fourth-deadliest volcanic eruption recorded since 1500 AD. It is also the deadliest lahar, and Colombia's worst natural disaster.\n\nThe loss of life was exacerbated by the lack of an accurate timeframe for the eruption and the unwillingness of local authorities to take costly preventative measures without clear signs of imminent danger. Because its last substantial eruption had occurred 140 years earlier, in 1845, it was difficult for many to accept the danger presented by the volcano; locals even called it the \"Sleeping Lion.\"\n\nHazard maps showing that Armero would be completely flooded after an eruption were distributed more than a month before the eruption, but the Colombian Congress criticized the scientific and civil defense agencies for scaremongering. The eruption occurred at the height of guerrilla warfare in Bogotá, Colombia's capital, and so the government and army were preoccupied at the time of the eruption.\n\nThe day after the eruption, relief workers were appalled at its impact. The lahars had left behind a gray mass which covered the entire town. Armero was dotted with broken trees and horribly disfigured human bodies. Debris from huts and homes protruded from beneath the gray mud. A few bags filled with crops were discovered in the mud. Workers described an acrid smell of \"rotting bodies, [...] wood smoke and decaying vegetables.\" To the horror of these workers, who were scrambling to begin relief efforts, survivors let out moans of pain and agony. The damages were assessed at six billion dollars, an amount approximately one-fifth of Colombia's 1985 Gross National Product.\n\nAs news of the catastrophe spread around the world, the ongoing Colombian presidential election stopped, and the guerrilla fighters stopped their campaign \"in view of the painful tragedy that has befallen our [the Colombian fighters] nation.\" Tickets for Colombian national championship soccer games added a surcharge of five cents to go to relief efforts.\n\nScientists who later analyzed the seismograph data noticed that several long-period earthquakes (which begin strongly and then slowly die out) had occurred in the final hours before the eruption. Volcanologist Bernard Chouet said that, \"the volcano was screaming 'I'm about to explode'\", but the scientists who were studying the volcano at the time of the eruption were not able to read the signal.\n\nThe eruption occurred two months after the 1985 Mexico City earthquake, limiting the amount of supplies that could be sent to each of the disasters. Efforts were organized in Ibagué and Bogotá for Armero and in Cali for Chinchina, where medical teams gathered. Makeshift triage stations were established in Lerida, Guayabal, and Mariquita, and soon were overwhelmed with the sheer number of victims. The remaining victims were directed to Ibagué's hospitals, as local institutions had already been destroyed or were at risk from further lahars.\n\nThe US government spent over $1 million in aid (equivalent to $ million today), and US Ambassador to Colombia Charles S. Gillespie, Jr. donated an initial $25,000 to Colombian disaster assistance institutions ($ today). The Office of Foreign Disaster Assistance of the US Agency for International Development (AID) sent one member of the United States Geological Survey (USGS), along with an AID disaster-relief expert and 12 helicopters with support and medical personnel from Panama.\n\nThe US subsequently sent additional aircraft and supplies, including 500 tents, 2,250 blankets, and several tent repair kits. Twenty-four other nations contributed to the rescue and assistance of survivors. Ecuador supplied a mobile hospital, and Iceland's Red Cross sent $4,650 ($ today). The French government sent their own medical supplies with 1,300 tents. Japan sent $1.25 million ($ million today), along with eight doctors, nurses, and engineers, plus $50,000 ($ today) to the United Nations for relief efforts. Another $50,000 ($ today) was donated by the Lions Clubs International Foundation.\n\nRescue efforts were hindered by the soft mud that was up to deep in some places, making it virtually impossible for anyone to traverse it without sinking in. To make the situation worse, the highway connected to Armero and several bridges to it had been demolished by the lahars. It took twelve hours for the first survivors to be rescued, so those with serious but treatable injuries probably died before the rescuers arrived.\n\nBecause Armero's hospital was destroyed in the eruption, helicopters moved survivors to nearby hospitals. Six local towns set up makeshift emergency relief clinics, consisting of treatment areas and shelters for the homeless. To help with the treatment, physicians and rescue teams came from all over the country. Of the 1,244 patients spread over the clinics, 150 died from infection or associated complications. Had antibiotics been readily available and all of their lacerations been thoroughly cleaned, many of these people could have been saved.\n\nOn November 20, 1985, one week later, rescue efforts began to cease. Nearly 4,000 relief workers and rescue team members were still searching for survivors, with little hope of finding any. By then, the official death toll was registered at 22,540 people; additional counts showed that 3,300 were missing, 20,000 homeless, and 4,000 injured. Looters raided the ruins and survivors faced concerns of typhus and yellow fever. For most of the relief workers, their job was over.\n\nThe eruption was used as an example for psychiatric recuperation after natural disasters by Robert Desjarlais and Leon Eisenberg in their work \"World Mental Health: Problems and Priorities in Low-Income Countries\". The authors were concerned that only initial treatment for the survivors' psychological trauma was conducted. One study showed that the victims of the eruption suffered from anxiety and depression, which can lead to alcohol abuse, marital problems and other social issues.\n\nRafael Ruiz, an Army Major who briefly served as Armero's provisional mayor after the disaster, stated that there were survivors who, due to the trauma of the event, were \"jittery\", experienced \"nightmares\", and suffered from \"emotional problems.\" He added that the progress made by Christmas of 1985 was considerable, but that there was \"still a long way to go.\"\n\nA lack of preparation for the disaster contributed to the high death toll. Armero had been built on an alluvial fan that had been overrun by historic mudflows; authorities had ignored a hazard-zone map that showed the potential damage to the town from lahars. Residents stayed inside their dwellings to avoid the falling ash, as local officials had instructed them to do, not thinking that they might be buried by the mudflows.\n\nThe disaster gained international notoriety due in part to a photograph taken by photographer Frank Fournier of a young girl named Omayra Sánchez, who was trapped beneath rubble for three days before she died. Following the eruption, relief workers gathered around the girl, speaking with her and listening to her responses. She attracted the attention of the reporters at the site because of her sense of dignity and courage, and caused controversy when people wondered why the media workers had not saved her (which was impossible without equipment).\n\nAn appeal to the government for a pump to lower the water around her was left unanswered, and she succumbed to gangrene and hypothermia after 60 hours of being trapped. Her death epitomized the tragic nature of the Armero disaster – she could have been saved had the government responded promptly and addressed the concerns over the volcano's potency. The photograph earned the World Press Photo of the Year for \"capturing the event of greatest journalistic importance\".\n\nTwo photographers from the \"Miami Herald\" won a Pulitzer Prize for photographing the effects of the lahar. Dr. Stanley Williams of Louisiana State University said that following the eruption, \"With the possible exception of Mount St. Helens in the state of Washington, no other volcano in the Western Hemisphere is being watched so elaborately.\" In response to the eruption, the USGS Volcano Crisis Assistance Team was formed in 1986, and the Volcano Disaster Assistance Program.\nThe volcano erupted several more times between 1985 and 1994.\n\nConcerns over the alleged negligence of local officials to alert locals of the volcano's threat led to controversy. The mayor of Armero, Ramon Rodriguez and other local officials had tried to bring the volcano's potential eruption to the attention of the Colombian government, but to no avail. For months, Rodriguez appealed to various officials, including congressmen and the Governor of Tolima Department. Rodriguez once referred to the volcano as a \"time bomb\" and told reporters that he believed an eruption would disrupt the natural dam above Armero, resulting in floods.\n\nDespite his persistence, only one congressman managed to inquire about the reality of the situation. Reports from the Colombian Minister of Mines, Minister of Defence, and Minister of Public Works \"all asserted that the government was aware of the risk from the volcano and was acting to protect the population\". The lack of responsibility for the disaster prompted lawmakers to campaign for Tolima's governor (Eduardo Alzate Garcia) to resign. In the media, similar thoughts and questions were hotly debated. One of the most aggressive campaigns came from a mass funeral in Ibagué for the victims, claiming that \"The volcano didn't kill 22,000 people. The government killed them.\"\n\nThe volcano continues to pose a serious threat to nearby towns and villages. Of the threats, the one with the most potential for danger is that of small-volume eruptions, which can destabilize glaciers and trigger lahars. Although much of the volcano's glacier mass has retreated, a significant volume of ice still sits atop Nevado del Ruiz and other volcanoes in the Ruiz–Tolima massif. Melting just 10 percent of the ice would produce lahars with a volume of up to similar to the lahar that destroyed Armero in 1985. In just hours, these lahars can travel up to along river valleys.\n\nEstimates show that up to 500,000 people living in the Combeima, Chinchina, Coello-Toche, and Guali valleys are at risk, with 100,000 individuals being considered to be at high risk. Lahars pose a threat to the nearby towns of Honda, Mariquita, Ambalema, Chinchina, Herveo, Villa Hermosa, Salgar and La Dorada. Although small eruptions are more likely, the two-million-year eruptive history of the Ruiz–Tolima massif includes numerous large eruptions, indicating that the threat of a large eruption cannot be ignored. A large eruption would have more widespread effects, including the potential closure of Bogotá's airport due to ashfall.\n\nAs the Armero tragedy was exacerbated by the lack of early warnings, unwise land use, and the unpreparedness of nearby communities, the government of Colombia created a special program, the \"Oficina Nacional para la Atención de Desastres\" (National Office for Disaster Preparedness), now known as the \"Dirección de Prevención y Atención de Desastres\" (Directorate for Disaster Prevention and Preparedness)to prevent such incidents in the future.\n\nAll Colombian cities were directed to promote prevention planning to mitigate the consequences of natural disasters, and evacuations due to volcanic hazards have been carried out. About 2,300 people living along five nearby rivers were evacuated when Nevado del Ruiz erupted again in 1989. When another Colombian volcano, Nevado del Huila, erupted in April 2008, thousands of people were evacuated because volcanologists worried that the eruption could be another \"Nevado del Ruiz\".\n\nThe lessons from the Armero tragedy have inspired a lahar warning system for Mt. Rainier, which has a similar potential for lahars.\n\nArmero was never rebuilt after the tragedy. Instead, the survivors were relocated to the towns of Guayabal and Lérida, rendering Armero a ghost town.\n\nA little less than one year later, Pope John Paul II flew over Armero and then visited Lérida's refugee camps with Colombian President Belisario Betancur. He spoke about the disaster and declared the site of Armero \"holy land\". Although many victims of the disaster were commemorated, Omayra Sánchez in particular was immortalized by poems, novels, and music pieces. One work (\"Adios, Omayra\") by Eduardo Santa illustrated the girl's last days of life and her symbolism of the catastrophe. Survivors were also recognized in Germán Santa María Barragán's dramatized television special titled \"No Morirás\" (You Will Not Die). Much of the cast was composed of victims of the tragedy who appeared at the cast calls to be extras.\n\nAt the end of 2015, it was announced that \"Armero\", a film about the tragedy, would be released sometime in 2016. Directed by Christian Mantilla, the movie tells the story of the events that took place in November 1985. The movie was released on September 21, 2017.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2094347", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2094347", "title": "Denotation (semiotics)", "text": "Denotation (semiotics)\n\nIn semiotics, denotation is the surface or the literal meaning. The definition most likely to appear in a dictionary.\n\nDrawing from the original word or definition proposed by Saussure (1857-1913), a sign has two parts:\nTo transmit information, both the addresser and the addressee must use the same code, whether in the literal sense, e.g. Morse Code or in the form of a language. The denotative meaning of a signifier is intended to communicate the objective semantic content of the represented thing. So, in the case of a lexical word, say \"book\", the intention is to do no more than describe the physical object. Any other meanings or implications will be connotative meanings.\n\nThe distinction between denotation and connotation can be made in textual analysis and the existence of dictionaries is used to support the argument that the sign system begins with a simple meaning that is then glossed as new usages are developed. But this argument equally means that no sign can be separated from both its denotational and connotational meanings, and, since the addresser is always using the sign for a particular purpose in a context, no sign can be divorced from the values of the addresser. Louis Hjelmslev (1899-1965) therefore proposes that although the function of signification may be a single process, denotation is the first step, and connotation the second. Roland Barthes (1915-1980) added a third possible step in world view or \"Weltanschauung\" in which metacognitive schema such as \"liberty\", \"sexuality\", \"autonomy\", etc. create a framework of reference from which more abstract meanings may be attributed to the signs, depending on the context.\n\nBarthes and others have argued that it is more difficult to make a clear distinction when analysing images. For example, how is one to interpret a photograph? In the real world, a human observer has binocular vision, but the two-dimensional picture must be analysed to determine depth and the relative size of objects depicted by applying rules of perspective, the operation of which can be confused by focus and composition. One view might be that the picture as interpreted is evidence of what it depicts and, since the technology collects and stores data from the real world, the resulting picture is a definition of what the camera was pointed at, and so denotational. Adopting the classification of Charles Sanders Peirce, this would be considered an indexical sign, i.e. there is a direct connection between the signifier and the signified. While it is true that an unedited photograph may be an index, digital technology is eroding the viewer's confidence that the image is an objective representation of reality. Further, the photographer made conscious decisions about the composition of the image, how to light it, whether to take a close-up or long shot, etc. All of these decisions represent both the intention and the values of the photographer in wishing to preserve this image. This led John Fiske to suggest that, \"denotation is what is photographed, connotation is how it is photographed\". Such problems become even more difficult to resolve once the audience knows that the photograph or moving image has been edited or staged. (See also modality)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2094348", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2094348", "title": "Andreas Thorstensson", "text": "Andreas Thorstensson\n\nAndreas Thorstensson (born January 29, 1979) is a Swedish entrepreneur, web developer and former professional gamer of \"Counter-Strike\", playing under the in-game name bds. Having worked alongside Alexander T. Müller-Rodic as one of two managing directors for the professional electronic sports organization SK Gaming from 2001 to 2009, he created a popular social platform for gaming enthusiasts to congregate and to introduce a stronger awareness to a wider audience. Of Thorstensson's achievements, he is well known for his gaming tools and articles about the \"Counter-Strike\" netcode and also for \"Frag or Die\", the single-most downloaded \"Counter-Strike\" video to date.\n\nHe is widely regarded as one of the most influential innovators for esports, having assisted with establishing standards for player management and gaming communities. Beyond his esports career, he is well known for his many startups such as SPRAYdio, XSReality, ESN, Toborrow and EQT Ventures. In December 2018, Thorstensson co-founded the technology and services company, Popdog, marking his return to the esports scene.\n\nAndreas Thorstensson was born on January 29, 1979, in Stockholm, Sweden. According to Thorstensson, his intrigue with programming began in 1989, at the age of ten, with his father's purchase of the 386SX-20. In 1992, he began programming with C and had begun playing video games. Early on, Thorstensson worked to establish a foothold in the technical work industry by beginning as a senior programmer at the recently founded internet company Spray Network in August 1997, until December 1999. In the meantime, he began working as a senior programmer for Razorfish in January 1999 until December of that year. He had a year-long stint as the technical chief for the internet broadcasting company he created called SPRAYdio from January to December 2000. From January to December 2001, Thorstensson worked as a Technical Creative Director for the digital marketing company, Abel & Baker.\n\nThorstensson's first widespread attention began with his creation of the news aggregator GeekBoys.org in 1999. Together with his co-workers, Thorstensson turned his attention to the fledgling medium of electronic sports, which he dedicated GeekBoys' resources as a gaming clan and news syndicate. With the popularity of GeekBoys increasing, Thorstensson, now known by the pseudonym of \"bds\", achieved several record-breaking feats. According to statistics, he became the single dominant global-recognized \"Counter-Strike\" demo player. As one of his most-recognized achievements as a player, Thorstensson created \"Frag or Die\", which remains the most-popular frag display to date. Additionally, to improve the accessibility of demos, a program called GeekPlay was created, in order to allow immediate initialization of demo play. On September 23, 2001, the German electronic sports organization Schroet Kommando announced the acquisition of his Scandinavian-based team, as a second \"Counter-Strike\" squad. With the individuals of Geekboys transitioning to Schroet Kommando, the original GeekBoys website was sold to Swedes David Garpenstahl and Mattias Hjelmstedt. Over the following months, the two communities would slowly merge as the squad operated under the moniker of \"SK.Geekboys\". During 2001, Thorstensson was also involved with the creation of XSReality.com, which altered its name and changed hands to Englishman Sujoy Roy, eventually becoming ESReality.com. Today, ESReality remains immensely popular as an electronic sports platform.\n\nSchroet Kommando, (which was increasingly referred to as \"SK\"), began a revolutionizing system in electron inc sports, in which users could gain an elite status by partaking in subscription service, referred to as the \"SK Insider\". On February 1, 2003, Thorstensson introduced the first case of player contractual agreement with the acquisition of Ninjas in Pyjamas to join SK after they had won an early Cyberathlete Professional League Counter-Strike tournament. NiP accepted his offer due to SK's sponsorship deals with companies such as Intel, which allowed them to travel to major competitions worldwide. The resulting team was the highly popular SK.Sweden team of 2003 through 2004, which became the most dominant team the professional \"Counter-Strike\" scene has seen to date. This seemed to come to an end on January 2, 2005, when the team opted out of renewing their contracts in hopes of securing a larger share of the prize money and sponsorships with Ninjas in Pyjamas. However, later that year, on June 26, several of the team members returned to SK.\n\nDuring his eight years as Managing Director for SK Gaming, Thorstensson coordinated with his German counterpart, Alexander T. Müller-Rodic, (commonly known as \"TheSlaSH\"), along with SK's founder Ralf Reichert, (commonly known as \"Griff). The three of them worked to create a business platform around SK Gaming, from which he spent the great part of the entirety of that time operating with Müller-Rodic. Ever since his well-known inclusion into SK Gaming, Thorstensson created several innovative and extremely popular online applications that helped accelerate the growth rate of SK Gaming's already-expansive fan base. This includes the innovative cross-realm ranking system for \"World of Warcraft\" that, while in its prime, was the single most-popular third-party cross-realm ranking system in the world. In 2008, Swedish footballer Fredrik Lundgren became a co-owner of the GeekBoys business, with 1% of the company shares, won from a football bet with Thorstensson. On December 9, 2009, Thorstensson announced his retirement from SK Gaming to further pursue his web development profession, maintaining Geekboys.org as his personal business website.\n\nFollowing his departure from SK Gaming, Thorstensson continued maintaining GeekBoys as his web-based business, developing several notable websites, the first being Collected.info, a social networking platform to connect news feeds from other various websites under one account. The website was cooperatively developed by Thorstensson and the website's owners, David Sundan and Ted Persson. Thorstensson's primary project was Njuice.com, which utilizes advanced parsers to scan other networking websites for trending stories, then create an expanded network in itself. According to Alexa, Njuice was Thorstensson's most-popular website, bringing in more than one million hits monthly, which is a greater number than SK Gaming's.\n\nAlongside Sofie Lundström, Thorstensson founded a marketplace lending platform service intended to connect consumers with small businesses in need of loans called Toborrow, alongside Sofie Lundström in 2013. After two years of developing Toborrow, Thorstensson joined the Swedish private equity group EQT Partners as a tech partner. Though he would retain a chair on Toborrow's board, his development role was \npassed on to the developer Michel Radosavljevic. Over the successive three years of Thorstensson's tenure, EQT would maintain a €566 million fund and develop Motherbrain, a tool for identifying promising startup ventures. Thorstensson looked to investment opportunities concerning esports to the table at EQT, to no avail.\n\nAfter a $9 million Series A funding round, the esports technology and services company Popdog was launched in December 2018, with Thorstensson as a co-founder, CTO and CPO - marking his return to the scene, after nine years. Joining in launching Popdog were former Evil Geniuses (EG) owner Alex Garfield as CEO, consultant Niles Heron as CSO and former EG COO Colin DeShong as CCO. The first brands acquired with Popdog's launch included the premier gaming talent agency Loaded, the world's largest analysis tool for Twitch called Noscope, as well as the Catalyst Sports & Media's e-sports section.\n\n"}
{"id": "2094358", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2094358", "title": "New Hampshire Route 150", "text": "New Hampshire Route 150\n\nNew Hampshire Route 150 (abbreviated NH 150) is a north–south state highway in Rockingham County in southeastern New Hampshire. The road runs from Kensington south to the Massachusetts border.\n\nThe southern terminus of NH 150 is at the Massachusetts state line in South Hampton, where the road continues south as Massachusetts Route 150 in the town of Amesbury. The northern terminus of NH 150 is at New Hampshire Route 108 in Kensington. For most of its length, NH 150 is named Amesbury Road.\n\nNH 150 in Kensington, near where it intersects with Brewer Road, was the location of the Exeter incident, a highly publicized UFO sighting that occurred on September 3, 1965.\n"}
{"id": "2094359", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2094359", "title": "New Hampshire Route 149", "text": "New Hampshire Route 149\n\nNew Hampshire Route 149 (abbreviated NH 149) is a secondary east–west state highway in Hillsborough County in the southern part of the U.S. state of New Hampshire. The road runs between the towns of Weare and Hillsborough.\n\nThe eastern terminus of NH 149 is in Weare at New Hampshire Route 77 in the area known as South Weare. The western terminus is in the center of Hillsborough at U.S. Route 202 and New Hampshire Route 9. In Hillsborough, NH 149 is known as Bridge Street. Between Weare and Hillsborough, the highway provides access to Deering Reservoir and Pleasant Pond.\n"}
{"id": "2094360", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2094360", "title": "New Hampshire Route 145", "text": "New Hampshire Route 145\n\nNew Hampshire Route 145 (abbreviated NH 145) is a north–south state highway in northern Coös County in the Great North Woods Region of New Hampshire. The highway runs between intersections with U.S. Route 3 (US 3) in Colebrook and Pittsburg. NH 145 serves the towns of Stewartstown and Clarksville.\n\nNH 145 begins at US 3 (Main Street) just north of the U.S. Highway's bridge across the Mohawk River in the town center of Colebrook. The two-lane highway heads northeast out of the town center along Park Street. NH 145 follows Beaver Brook and its North Branch, passing Beaver Brook Falls Wayside, to its headwaters at Stewartstown Hollow in the town of Stewartstown, where the route follows Hollow Road. A New Hampshire historical marker there (number 47) notes the nearby gravesite of Metallak, \"The Lone Indian of the Magalloway\". The highway descends to Cedar Brook and crosses Bishop Brook before ascending out of that valley and entering the town of Clarksville. NH 145 crosses Pond Brook, passes another historical marker (number 155) denoting the 45th parallel north, and passes through the village of Clarksville. North of there, the highway descends to and crosses the Connecticut River into the town of Pittsburg. There, NH 145 follows Mill Street a short distance to its northern terminus at US 3 (Main Street).\n"}
{"id": "2094361", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2094361", "title": "New Hampshire Route 142", "text": "New Hampshire Route 142\n\nNew Hampshire Route 142 (abbreviated NH 142) is a north–south state highway in northern New Hampshire. The highway runs between Franconia in the White Mountains Region to Dalton in the upper Connecticut River valley.\n\nThe southern terminus of NH 142 is at the junction with New Hampshire Route 18 in Franconia. The highway winds north through Bethlehem and Whitefield, then turns northwest to Dalton. NH 142 runs concurrently with New Hampshire Route 116 for in Whitefield. The northern terminus is in Dalton at New Hampshire Route 135, the Connecticut River Road.\n"}
{"id": "2094362", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2094362", "title": "New Hampshire Route 141", "text": "New Hampshire Route 141\n\nNew Hampshire Route 141 (abbreviated NH 141) is a east–west state highway located entirely within the town of Franconia. Its western end is at New Hampshire Route 18. Its eastern end is at U.S. Route 3. It is called Butterhill Road for its entire length. The New Hampshire Department of Transportation maintains a major depot here for plows and maintenance equipment.\n"}
{"id": "2094364", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2094364", "title": "New Hampshire Route 140", "text": "New Hampshire Route 140\n\nNew Hampshire Route 140 is a east–west state highway in central New Hampshire, running from Tilton to Alton. The western terminus of NH 140 is in Tilton at an intersection with U.S. Route 3, New Hampshire Route 11 and New Hampshire Route 132, located at exit 20 on Interstate 93. The eastern terminus is in Alton at NH 11 and New Hampshire Route 28A (Main Street). In Alton, the road is named the Frank C. Gilman Highway.\n\nNH 140 (along with I-93) is commonly used as an alternative for motorists during the busiest NASCAR events at New Hampshire Motor Speedway in Loudon. The main highway to the speedway, New Hampshire Route 106, is converted to one-way traffic to accommodate the increased amount of traffic.\n"}
{"id": "2094365", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2094365", "title": "New Hampshire Route 137", "text": "New Hampshire Route 137\n\nNew Hampshire Route 137 (abbreviated NH 137) is a secondary north–south state highway in southern New Hampshire. The road runs between Jaffrey and Hancock.\n\nThe southern terminus of NH 137 is at U.S. Route 202 and New Hampshire Route 124 in Jaffrey. In Jaffrey, NH 137 is named North Street. The northern terminus is northeast of Hancock center at US 202 along the west side of Powder Mill Pond at the Bennington town line.\n"}
{"id": "2094366", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2094366", "title": "New Hampshire Route 136", "text": "New Hampshire Route 136\n\nNew Hampshire Route 136 (abbreviated NH 136) is a east–west state highway in Hillsborough County in southern New Hampshire. The road connects New Boston and Peterborough.\n\nThe eastern terminus of NH 136 is at New Hampshire Route 13 in New Boston. The western terminus is in Peterborough at U.S. Route 202 and New Hampshire Route 123.\n"}
{"id": "2094367", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2094367", "title": "Jack Hester", "text": "Jack Hester\n\nJack Hester may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2094369", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2094369", "title": "New Hampshire Route 135", "text": "New Hampshire Route 135\n\nNew Hampshire Route 135 (abbreviated NH 135) is a north–south state highway in New Hampshire. The highway runs along the Connecticut River from Woodsville in the town of Haverhill to Lancaster.\n\nThe southern terminus of NH 135 is at New Hampshire Route 10 in Woodsville. The northern terminus is at U.S. Route 2 and U.S. Route 3 in Lancaster.\n"}
{"id": "2094370", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2094370", "title": "New Hampshire Route 132", "text": "New Hampshire Route 132\n\nNew Hampshire Route 132 (abbreviated NH 132) is a north–south highway in Belknap and Merrimack counties in central New Hampshire. NH 132 runs from Concord north to Ashland in the Lakes Region, parallel to Interstate 93.\n\nThe southern terminus of NH 132 is at New Hampshire Route 9 near Concord Municipal Airport. The northern terminus of NH 132 is at U.S. Route 3 and New Hampshire Route 25 in Ashland.\n\nNH 132 serves as a local route closely paralleling I-93 for its entire length. This is a role usually held by US 3, however in the Lakes Region, US 3 takes a more easterly route and deviates some distance from I-93.\n\nThe route's southern terminus is at NH 9 in Concord and is known locally as East Side Drive. A traffic circle provides access to Portsmouth Street and I-93, while NH 132 exits the traffic circle on Mountain Road. Near the northern boundary of Concord, Hoit Road provides access to I-93 and US 4. Entering Canterbury the local name changes to Southwest Road, and then at Center Road (which provides access to the Canterbury town center) changes again to Northwest Road. Entering Northfield the local name becomes Concord Road, and NH 132 crosses under I-93 without interchanging. Closely paralleling the southbound lanes of I-93, it crosses under it again without an interchange, doubles back over the freeway, and has a half interchange with it just south of the twin villages of Tilton Northfield. Here the local name changes to Park Street, and after crossing a bridge over the Winnipesaukee River and entering the town of Tilton, it immediately joins US 3 along Main Street. Another interchange with I-93 occurs in the main commercial district of Tilton, and immediately after the interchange, NH 132 leaves its concurrency with US 3 to turn northbound along Sanborn Road entering the town of Sanbornton. \n\nAfter passing the main village of Sanbornton, NH 127 has its eastern terminus at NH 132 in the village of Gaza, at which point the name changes to Stage Road. Passing between I-93 and Hermit Lake, NH 132 crosses under the freeway again briefly entering the town of Meredith before entering New Hampton without intersecting any other roads. Intersecting with NH 104 near New Hampton School, NH 132 merges with NH 104 and goes east to have another interchange with I-93. Just east of the interchange, NH 132 leaves the concurrency and turns north on an unnamed road. NH 132 passes under I-93 twice more before leaving New Hampton and entering Ashland, just south of the main village of that town. In Ashland, the route follows Depot Street before reaching its northern terminus at US 3/NH 25 (Daniel Webster Highway) at the center of the village.\n\nNH 132 was once known as New Hampshire Route 3B.\n"}
{"id": "2094379", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2094379", "title": "Archie Andrews (puppet)", "text": "Archie Andrews (puppet)\n\nArchie Andrews was a ventriloquist's dummy used by ventriloquist Peter Brough in radio and television shows in the UK in the 1950s and 1960s. Perhaps the most popular show in its radio format was called \"Educating Archie\", regularly attracting over 15 million listeners. Archie was invariably dressed in a broad-striped blazer, and addressed the ventriloquist as \"Brough\". The television scripts were written by Marty Feldman and Ronald Chesney.\n\nThe radio show had a children's fan club that at one time had 250,000 members. Among future stars who appeared on the show were Tony Hancock, Dick Emery, Max Bygraves, Harry Secombe, Benny Hill, Beryl Reid and 14-year-old Julie Andrews. During this period Max Bygraves together with Archie Andrews/Peter Brough recorded \"The Dummy Song\" which is still available on Max Bygraves' compilation albums.\n\nArchie went missing several times. \n\nIt is claimed that many Archies were made over the years and that two currently reside with puppet collector David Wilde. However, it is also claimed that only one Archie was made and that he was made in 1942. The mould from which he was made is believed to have been destroyed during the Blitz of World War II.\n\nArchie was sold at auction in 2005 for £34,000.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2094386", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2094386", "title": "Washstand", "text": "Washstand\n\nA washstand or basin stand is a piece of furniture consisting of a small table or cabinet, usually supported on three or four legs, and most commonly made of mahogany, walnut, or rosewood, and made for holding a wash basin and water pitcher. The smaller varieties were used for rose-water ablutions, or for hair-powdering. The larger ones, which possessed receptacles for soap-dishes, were the predecessors of the modern bathroom wash basin, or sink. Both varieties, often of very elegant form, were in extensive use throughout a large part of the 18th century and early-19th century, eventually disappearing with the advent of modern indoor plumbing.\n\nIn his \"Pneumatics\", (chapter 31) Philo of Byzantium, a Greek engineer and writer on mechanics, describes an escapement mechanism, the earliest known, as part of a washstand. A counterweighted spoon, supplied by a water tank, tips over in a basin when full releasing a pumice in the process. Once the spoon has emptied, it is pulled up again by the counterweight, closing the door on the pumice by the tightening string. Remarkably, Philon's comment that \"its construction is similar to that of clocks\" indicates that such escapement mechanisms were already integrated in ancient water clocks.\n\nIn its 18th-century form the washstand was called a basin stand or basin frame, and is still sometimes described as a washhand stand. Its direct, but remote, ancestor was the monastic lavabo, ranges of basins of stone, lead or marble fed from a cistern (tank). They were usually of primitive conception, and a trough common to all was probably more frequent than separate basins. Very occasionally they were of bronze adorned with enamels and blazoned with heraldry.\n\nVery similar usages obtained in castles and palaces, fixed \"lavatories\" being constructed in the thickness of the walls for the use of their more important residents. These arrangements were obviously intended only for the summary ablutions which, until a very late date, sufficed to even the high-born.\n\nBy degrees the lavabo became portable, and a basin frame is mentioned as early as the middle of the 17th century. Examples of earlier date than the third or fourth decade of the 18th century are, however, virtually unknown. Thenceforth, until about the end of that century, this piece of furniture was usually literally a stand. It was supported upon a tripod; a circular orifice in the top received the basin, and smaller ones were provided for a soap dish and a water-bottle. Sometimes a stand for the water-jug when the basin was in use was provided below, and very commonly there was a drawer, sometimes even two drawers, below the basin.\n\nGreat numbers of these stands were made to fit into corners, and a corner wash-stand is still a common object in old furniture shops. Thomas Chippendale designed such stands in an elaborate rococo fashion, as well as in simpler form.\n\nAs the 18th century drew to its close the custom of using the same apartment as reception room by day and sleeping room by night produced a demand for what was called harlequin furniture pieces which were contrived a double or triple debt to pay. Thus a variety of complicated combination washstands and dressing tables were made, and fitted with mirrors and sometimes with writing conveniences and drawers for clothes. Thomas Sheraton developed astonishing ingenuity in devising a type of furniture which, if we may judge by the large number of examples still existing, must have become highly popular.\n\nWith the beginning of the 19th century and the expansion of ideals of personal cleanliness, the washstand grew in size and importance. It acquired the form of an oblong wooden table provided, like its smaller predecessors, with orifices for basins and fitted with a brad shelf-like stretcher upon which the jugs were placed when they were removed from the basins. Ample space was provided for soap-dishes and water-bottles. These tables were single or double, for the use of one or two persons. In the first quarter of the 20th century, the wooden top of the washstand was replaced by marble, unpierced, the basins being placed upon the slab, which, in the beginning almost invariably white, were later made of red or other warm-tinted marble.\n"}
{"id": "2094387", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2094387", "title": "Yamaha TX81Z", "text": "Yamaha TX81Z\n\nThe Yamaha TX81Z is a rack version of Yamaha DX11 and rack-mounted (keyboard-less) frequency modulation music synthesizer, which was released in 1987. Unlike previous FM synthesizers of the era, the TX81Z was the first to offer a range of oscillator waveforms other than just sine waves, conferring the new timbres of some of its patches when compared to older, sine-only FM synths. The TX81Z has developed a famous reputation, largely based on some of its preset bass sounds. A keyboard version with more onboard editing abilities was released the following year as the Yamaha DX11.\n\nThe unit is multitimbral, and has 128 ROM voices, 32 editable voice slots, and 24 editable Performance memories.\n\nThe RAM slots were rarely utilized due to the perceived high quality and usability of the original patches and the difficulty of programming new sounds with the limited front-panel interface. Among the presets is the famous \"LatelyBass\", one of the most popular presets in synthesizer history.\n\nThe TX81Z is backwards-compatible with sound patches developed for Yamaha's DX21, DX27, and DX100 synthesizers. It is also very similar, and almost completely patch-compatible, to the DX11 synthesizer, which is essentially a TX81Z with a velocity and pressure-sensing keyboard, and a pitch envelope.\n\nSome say the prevalence of the TX81Z's presets was also because of the difficulty in creating new patches. Creating new sounds from the unit's front panel is possible, but numerous nested parameters must be navigated by way of 11 buttons and a backlit 16 character, 2-line LCD. However, several personal computer-based editing applications have been developed since its release. The Dutch company KissBox released in 2013 a TX81Z editor based on RTP-MIDI communication, which makes the hardware synth appear as a VST plugin, while being controlled over a network link in real-time.\n\nThe TX81Z was designed as a low-cost FM machine and has always been relatively inexpensive compared to most other FM synthesizers. The TX81Z is built around a single FM chip, the Yamaha YM2414B aka OPZ, while 6-op machines like the DX7 have separate envelope/frequency and algorithm/wave chips and created LFOs in software; this large workload in the OPZ is probably why it has fewer operators and notes. A 63B03 CPU allocates voices and generates auxiliary LFOs, in parallel with MIDI and user interface, which might be why e.g. a pitch EG was omitted; the later DX11 splits responsibilities between 2 CPUs and adds a PEG.\n\nThe TX81Z can run quite quickly out of resources, especially under Performance Mode, where the 8 voices are shared between the 16 MIDI channels. It is also quite sensitive to System Exclusive messages timing when being edited remotely. Special care must be taken not to send System Exclusive messages with a delay too small between them (it can take up to 50ms for the synthesizer to process a new parameter value).\n\nThe low price made the TX81Z popular with many producers on a tight budget, and is still used by part-time house and acid house producers. Eliot Kennedy uses it for one purpose, a \"classic dancefloor bass sound.\". Producer Babyface at one point had two units in his studio, both of which he kept set to the preset \"LatelyBass\", one detuned from the other; this expanded version of the preset became a part of his signature sound . TX81Z units are still fairly common and can often be found at pawn shops, second-hand music retailers, and internet auction websites.\n\nTXz is very suitable for accordion use. It can be programmed to give Four Notes Right, Three notes Chord and One Note Bass. The machine can replicate the sounds of the old style Cordovox as well as add some further interesting sounds.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2094394", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2094394", "title": "Male pregnancy", "text": "Male pregnancy\n\nMale pregnancy is the incubation of one or more embryos or fetuses by male members of some species. Most species that reproduce by sexual reproduction are heterogamous—females producing larger gametes (ova) and males producing smaller gametes (sperm). In nearly all animal species, offspring are carried by the female until birth, but in fish of the family Syngnathidae (pipefish, seahorses and the leafy seadragon), males perform this function.\n\nHuman males incubating fetuses are a subject of popular imagination and a recurring theme in speculative fiction. In some very rare genetic conditions, genotypical males develop as female and possess the anatomy required for gestation; these intersex people have carried fetuses to term and given birth. In the absence of uterus transplantation, cases of viable ectopic pregnancies in females provide a potential model for successful pregnancy in males, but any attempt at such would be extremely dangerous for both the father and the fetus. Trans men may also become pregnant, provided they have not had a hysterectomy.\n\nThe fish family Syngnathidae has the unique characteristic of a highly derived form of male brood care referred to as \"male pregnancy\". The family is highly diverse, containing around 300 different species of fish. Included in Syngnathidae are seahorses, the pipefish, and the weedy and leafy seadragons. The males of some of these species possess a brood pouch on the trunk or tail; in other species, the eggs are merely attached to the male's trunk or tail when the female lays them. Although biologists' definitions of pregnancy differ somewhat, all members of the family are considered by ichthyologists to display male pregnancy, even those without an external brood pouch.\n\nFertilization may take place in the pouch or in the water before implantation, but in either case, syngnathids' male pregnancy ensures them complete confidence of paternity. After implantation in or on the brood pouch or brood patch, the male incubates the eggs. Many species osmoregulate the brood pouch fluid to maintain proper pH for the developing embryos. In at least some species, the male also provisions his offspring with nutrients such as glucose and amino acids through the highly vascularized attachment sites in or on his body.\n\nThis period of incubation can take much longer than the production of another clutch of eggs by the female, especially in temperate regions where pregnancies last longer, leading to a reproductive environment in which sexual selection can be stronger on females than on males due to increased male parental investment. This reversal of traditional sex roles has only been found in pipefishes, whereas seahorses have largely been accepted as monogamous. Some pipefish species display classical polyandry because of this unique situation. Male syngnathids usually prefer females with large body size and prominent ornaments such as blue skin pigmentation or skin folds. Syngnathid males in some species are apparently capable of absorbing eggs or embryos while in the brood pouch. In these cases, embryos with the highest survival rate are those whose mothers display the preferred phenotype.\n\nSyngnathidae is the only family in the animal kingdom to which the term \"male pregnancy\" has been applied.\n\nHuman males do not naturally possess wombs to gestate offspring. The theoretical issue of male ectopic pregnancy (pregnancy outside the uterine cavity) by surgical implantation has been addressed by experts in the field of fertility medicine, who stress that the concept of ectopic implantation, while theoretically plausible, has never been attempted and would be difficult to justify – even for a woman lacking a uterus – owing to the extreme health risks to both the parent and child.\n\nRobert Winston, a pioneer of in-vitro fertilization, told London's \"Sunday Times\" that \"male pregnancy would certainly be possible\" by having an embryo implanted in a man's abdomen – with the placenta attached to an internal organ such as the bowel – and later delivered surgically. Ectopic implantation of the embryo along the abdominal wall, and resulting placenta growth would, however, be very dangerous and potentially fatal for the host, and is therefore unlikely to be studied in humans. Gillian Lockwood, medical director of Midland Fertility Services, a British fertility clinic, noted that the abdomen has not evolved to separate from the placenta during delivery, hence the danger of an ectopic pregnancy. Bioethicist Glenn McGee said \"the question is not 'Can a man do it?'. It's 'If a man does have a successful [ectopic] pregnancy, can he survive it?\n\nSince 2000, several hoax web sites have appeared on the Internet purporting to describe the world's first pregnant man. While some rely on legitimate scientific claims, no such experiment has ever been reported. Fertility clinician Cecil Jacobson claimed to have transplanted a fertilized egg from a female baboon to the omentum in the abdominal cavity of a male baboon in the mid-1960s, which then carried the fetus for four months; however, Jacobson did not publish his claims in a scientific journal, and was subsequently convicted on several unrelated counts of fraud for ethical misconduct.\n\nUnlike an ectopic pregnancy which places both the fetus and host in danger, uterus transplantation into a male, if successful, would provide protection to both the fetus and host and remove much of the danger to both.\n\nAccording to Karine Chung, director of the fertility preservation program at the University of Southern California's Keck School of Medicine, transplanting a uterus into a human male would not be much different from transplanting one into a female, as \"male and female anatomy is not that different.\" The uterus would either have to be donated by a willing donor or be tissue-engineered using the male's stem cells and then implanted into his pelvic region. Afterward, the standard in vitro fertilisation (IVF) procedure would be followed to insert the fetus into the male's newly formed womb.\n\nA uterine transplant was performed in Saudi Arabia in 2000, from one woman to another, but it did not result in a pregnancy. This advance drew speculation about the possibility of a male receiving a womb transplant, and bearing a child from the transplanted womb.\n\nCertain rare disorders of sex development in karyotypical (46, XY) males cause the paramesonephric ducts to develop into the Müllerian structures required for pregnancy, as in a female. While affected intersex women are infertile (producing no gametes), they may successfully carry and deliver a pregnancy with assisted reproductive technology (ART). There are also documented cases of individuals with XY-predominant mosaicism conceiving naturally, including a person with a 96% XY karyotype and ovotestes (true hermaphroditism). There has been a reported case of an XY-predominant woman who experienced regular menstruation, two natural pregnancies, and gave birth.\n\nSome transgender men can become pregnant, if they have functioning ovaries and a uterus.\n\nFetus in fetu, though not an actual pregnancy, is an extremely rare condition in which a mass of tissue resembling a fetus forms inside the body. This is a developmental abnormality in which a fertilized egg splits as if to form identical twins, but one half becomes enveloped by the other, and an entire living organ system with torso and limbs can develop inside the host. The abnormality occurs in 1 in 500,000 live births in humans.\n\nThe case of Sanju Bhagat, also known as Sanjay Kumar, a man from Nagpur, India, attracted attention in 1999 for the length of time (36 years) he had carried his parasitic twin inside his body, and the size of the growth. Since Bhagat had no placenta, the growth had connected directly to his blood supply. In an extremely unusual case, a 2-year-old boy became pregnant with his parasitic twin inside his stomach feeding off him like a normal fetus would feed on its mother. The boy required a Caesarean section. It is virtually impossible that the fetus could survive this process due to being underdeveloped.\n\nSome science fiction writers have picked up on these issues, in \"cross-gender\" themes—e.g., Octavia E. Butler's \"Bloodchild and Other Stories\". Ursula K. Le Guin's novel \"The Left Hand of Darkness\" contains the sentence \"The king was pregnant\", and explores a society in which pregnancy can be experienced by anyone, since individuals are not sexually differentiated during most of their life and can become capable of inseminating or gestating at different times. Lois McMaster Bujold's \"Ethan of Athos\" features an all-male society in which men use artificial wombs, but experience many of the psychological effects of pregnancy (anticipation, anxiety, etc.). In Marge Piercy's feminist utopian novel \"Woman on the Edge of Time\", neither men nor women get pregnant, leaving that to artificial wombs, but both sexes may lactate and nurse the infant; the specifically female experiences of pregnancy and nursing were opened to men in the cause of gender equality. Larry Niven's 1969 essay \"Man of Steel, Woman of Kleenex\" ends with considering Superman as a carrier for his own baby, due to the difficulties a human female might encounter carrying a superpowered fetus. \n\nThe concept of male pregnancy has been the subject of popular films, generally as a comedic device. The 1978 comedy film \"Rabbit Test\" stars Billy Crystal as a young man who inexplicably becomes pregnant instead of his female sex partner. In Monty Python's 1979 film, \"Life of Brian\", there is a political satire scene in which a character demands that any man has a \"right to have babies if he wants them,\" which is ridiculed as impossible. The 1994 science fiction comedy/drama \"Junior\" stars Arnold Schwarzenegger as a fertility researcher who experiments on himself; the screenplay was inspired by a 1985 article in \"Omni\" magazine.\n\nThe concept appears frequently as a comedic gag in numerous television programs as well. In a 1981 episode of the Canadian sketch comedy series \"Bizarre\", the show’s resident daredevil character Super Dave Osborne (Bob Einstein) performs, as one of his many stunts, carrying and giving birth to a baby. The 1990 BBC television comedy drama \"Frankenstein's Baby\" features a Dr. Eva Frankenstein helping a male patient to become the world's first pregnant man. In the BBC science fiction comedy series \"Red Dwarf\", the main character Dave Lister becomes pregnant after having sex with a female version of himself in an alternate universe. In an episode of \"Sliders\", the quartet \"slides\" into an alternate world in which babies develop during their final months in the father because a worldwide disease has kept women from being able to carry children beyond their first trimester. In the popular fantasy series \"Charmed\"’s fifth season, during a dream spell gone wrong, Leo ends up pregnant with Piper's baby for a good deal of the episode, leading to her referring to him as an 'incubator' and at times berating him for 'upsetting the baby'. In Doctor Who (series 11), an episode features a man going into labor pain.\nThe possibility of extraterrestrial life having different reproductive sexuality is the basis for many references. In the \"\" episode \"\", Trip Tucker becomes pregnant with the offspring of a female of another species. In the video game \"The Sims 2\" male characters can be impregnated via cheat codes or alien abduction. In the \"American Dad!\" episode \"Deacon Stan, Jesus Man\", the boy Steve becomes impregnated after giving the mouth-to-mouth resuscitation to the extraterrestrial Roger, then unwittingly passes it on to his girlfriend via a kiss. In the animated series \"Futurama\", the extraterrestrial Kif can be impregnated by a touch. In the \"SciFi Channel\" miniseries, \"\", the extraterrestrial Rygel becomes impregnated with human John and Aeryn's baby. In the series \"Alien Nation\", when Tectonese main character George Francisco and his wife Susan decide to have a third child, it is revealed that, in order to conceive, a Tectonese couple needs a third party, called a \"binnaum\", to complete impregnation, and that the male carries the baby—encased in a pod—during the final months of gestation. In the \"Ozzy & Drix\" episode \"Ozzy Jr.\", Ozzy thinks he is having a baby but is actually a parasite growing in his belly caused by an infection by Strepfinger. In the \"Ren & Stimpy \"Adult Party Cartoon\"\" episode \"Stimpy's Pregnant\", Stimpy is thought to be pregnant but Mr. Horse finds out that he is actually constipated. In the animated series \"The Fairly OddParents\" in the TV film \"Fairly OddBaby\", the fairy Cosmo was pregnant of Baby Poof. Additionally, Robert Sheckley's 1989 short story \"Love Song From the Stars\" also contains this element.\n\nIn the \"\" episode \"Save the Last Dance\", it is revealed that Necrofriggians have an ability to asexually reproduce once every 80 years, building a large nest made of digested metal where their eggs will hatch and their offspring will feed on the metal, first eating from the nest before they instinctively feed on solar plasma until they mature and starts their own separate lives. Due to the Necrofriggian reproduction cycle, Big Chill overtook Ben's personality to carry out the process, but Ben did not remember anything he did as Big Chill during this cycle, like eating metal and having 14 babies, and he felt very embarrassed when Gwen, Kevin and Julie explained, and Kevin's teasing and calling him \"mommy\" did not help. In \"The Three Stooges\" episode \"Even as IOU\" Curly accidentally swallows a Vitamin Z pill meant for a horse. However, the error allows Curly to give birth to an Equidae, which the Stooges crown as a winning race horse.\n\nVirgil Wong, a performance artist, created a hoax site featuring a fictitious male pregnancy, claiming to detail the pregnancy of his friend Lee Mingwei.\n\nMale pregnancy is also commonly explored in slash (homosexual) fan fiction, usually based upon fantasy series such as \"Supernatural\" or \"Harry Potter\".\n"}
{"id": "2094395", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2094395", "title": "Côn Sơn Island", "text": "Côn Sơn Island\n\nCôn Sơn, also known as Côn Lôn, is the largest island of the Côn Đảo archipelago, off the coast of southern Vietnam.\n\nIts French variant Grande-Condore was well-known during the times of French Indochina. Marco Polo mentioned the island in the description of his 1292 voyage from China to India under the name \"Sondur\" and \"Condur\". In Ptolemy's \"Geography\", they are referred to as the \"Isles of the Satyrs\". The medieval Arab/Persian name for Pulo Condor was Sundar Fúlát صندر فولات: The Khmer name is Koh Tralach កោះត្រឡាច , which means the same as the Malay name, \"Wax gourd Island\".\n\nIn 1702, the English East India Company founded a settlement on this island (the English called it <nowiki>'</nowiki>Pulo Condore<nowiki>'</nowiki> after its Malay name, Pulau Kundur فولاو كوندور) off the south coast of southern Vietnam, and in 1705 the garrison and settlement were destroyed.\n\nIn 1787, through the Treaty of Versailles, Nguyễn Ánh (the future Emperor Gia Long) promised to cede Poulo Condor to the French. In exchange Louis XVI promised to help Nguyễn Ánh to regain the throne, by supplying 1,650 troops (1,200 Kaffir troops, 200 artillery men and 250 black soldiers) on four frigates.\n\nIn 1861, the French colonial government established Côn Đảo Prison on the island to house political prisoners. In 1954, it was turned over to the South Vietnamese government, who continued to use it for the same purpose. Notable prisoners held at Côn Sơn in the 1930s included Phạm Văn Đồng, Nguyễn An Ninh and Lê Đức Thọ.\nNot far from the prison is Hàng Dương Cemetery, where some of the prisoners were buried.\n\nDuring the Vietnam War, prisoners who had been held at the prison in the 1960s were abused and tortured. In July 1970, two U.S. Congressional representatives, Augustus Hawkins and William Anderson, visited the prison. They were accompanied by Tom Harkin (then an aide), translator Don Luce, and USAID Office of Public Safety Director Frank Walton. When the delegation arrived at the prison, they departed from the planned tour, guided by a map drawn by a former detainee. The map led to the door of a building, which was opened from the inside by a guard when he heard the people outside the door talking. Inside they found prisoners were being shackled within cramped \"tiger cages\". Prisoners began crying out for water when the delegation walked in. They had sores and bruises, and some were mutilated. Harkin took photos of the scene. The photos were published in \"Life\" magazine on July 17, 1970. Recreations of tiger cages can be seen today at the War Remnants Museum in Ho Chi Minh City. In response, Phil Crane, a Republican from Illinois, visited Côn Sơn and stated that the visit and photos were \"distortions of truth.\" The tiger cages, he said, were \"cleaner than the average Vietnamese home.\"\n\nThe prison on Côn Sơn Island was closed in 1975 after the Fall of Saigon. The facilities were reopened some years later however, to temporarily incarcerate boat people captured by local coast guards until the late 1980s.\n\nAt the request of Secretary of Defense Robert McNamara, the U.S. Coast Guard started pre-construction plans for a chain of Loran-C radio stations to serve Southeast Asia 15 January 1966 in support of Operation Tight Reign during the Vietnam War. The actual construction of Station Con Son began during April with the delivery of construction materials by and award of construction contracts to Morrison-Knudsen Corp. and Brown and Root Company. Station Con Son was one of five stations in the Southeast Asia chain and was designated SH-3 Yankee. It consisted of a tower, transmitter equipment buildings, fuel tanks, generators and barracks for personnel located on the north end of Con Son Island. The personnel complement for the station was two officers and 23 enlisted men. After commissioning on 2 September 1966 the station began the testing phase of operations and the five station chain was fully operational by 0400 on 28 October, just nine months after the initial request from the Department of Defense. The station provided, along with its sister stations in the chain, signals that allowed aircraft and ships to receive accurate all-weather positioning data for navigation purposes. During January 1973 the operation of the station was turned over to civilian contractors who were responsible to the United States Coast Guard for all functions of the station. The Coast Guard continued to supply logistical and technical support on an as needed basis. When the fall of the South Vietnamese government was imminent, Station Con Son was directed to stay on the air until the last possible minute to provide navigation signals to aircraft and ships fleeing South Vietnam. Station Con Son stayed on the air until 1246 local time on 29 April 1975 after the crew oversped the generators and damaged critical pieces of electronic gear.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2094397", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2094397", "title": "Jean, Nevada", "text": "Jean, Nevada\n\nJean is a small commercial town in Clark County, Nevada, United States, located approximately north of the Nevada–California state line along Interstate 15. Las Vegas is located about to the north. There are no residents of Jean, but many people in nearby communities such as Primm and Sandy Valley have Jean listed in their mailing address because it is the location of the main post office for the 89019 ZIP code. South Las Vegas Boulevard ends about south of Jean, and it contiguously runs northbound past Las Vegas, ending near the I-15–US 93 Junction.\n\nThe area is mostly commercial, with the exception of the post office and the courthouse, with commercial outlets such as Terrible's Hotel & Casino, the Jean Sport Aviation Center (used for activities like skydiving), Jean Conservation Camp (a minimum-security, all female Nevada Department of Corrections facility established in 1987) and a Nevada Highway Patrol (NHP) substation. The Nevada Landing Hotel and Casino was also located here but it was demolished in April 2008 and the sign was removed in 2010. The Jean Post Office is located on Las Vegas Boulevard in Jean. The Goodsprings Township Courthouse is also located in Jean.\n\nThe town was originally named Goodsprings Junction. On June 28, 1905, postmaster George Arthur Fayle renamed it Jean in honor of his wife. He also built the Pioneer Saloon in Goodsprings.\n\nPop's Oasis Casino was the first casino in Jean. The Oasis closed in 1988. Chips and tokens from Pop's Oasis were poured into the foundation of the Nevada Landing. When the Nevada Landing was leveled in May 2008 these chips and tokens, some embedded in concrete, were found by collectors.\n\nThe welcome center was moved to Primm in early 2000. The original welcome center was converted to a Nevada Highway Patrol substation in 2004.\n\nThe median between the Nevada Landing Hotel and Casino and the Gold Strike Hotel and Gambling Hall was the scene of the worst single-vehicle accident in Southern Nevada history at that time, when a van with 13 people flipped over and eight people were killed. The accident occurred in March 2000.\n\nThe Nevada Landing Casino closed in March 2007. The Gold Strike remained open and was renamed as Terrible's in 2018.\n\nThe world’s largest Chevron gas station, with 96 pumps, opened across from the former site of the Nevada Landing in 2018.\n\nIn the early 1970s, the Southern Nevada Timing Association, a Las Vegas car club, operated a 1/4 mile National Hot Rod Association sanctioned dragstrip on the old L.A. highway just south of town. This strip was opened due to the fact that the Stardust raceway had closed and there was no place to race legally. The local Lions Club and the Clark County Sheriff's Department also sanctioned drag racing here. \nThe lengths of guard rail required by NHRA were installed on each side and a small observation tower was built. There were no timing or starting lights, all starts were by a flagger. The finish line was viewed by a club member who would go up on the track after the cars went by and stand in the winner's lane to show who won. His decision was final.\nRaces were run every weekend unless the weather proved dangerous to racers. Races were even run at night with the rental of a huge arc type spotlight that was projected down the track from the starting line. \nThe track was closed when the Las Vegas Speedrome opened across from Nellis Air Force Base. That track is now named The Strip at Las Vegas.\n\nJean is located on a mountain pass, Jean Pass (south), west of the Jean Dry Lake basin. Sheep Mountain borders Jean to the east, southeast of Jean Dry Lake. Northwest of the pass lies the southeast foothills of the Bird Spring Range.\n\nThe area around Jean has been the site of several installation art exhibits, including Study for An End of the World, No. 2 in 1962 when Jean Tinguely and Niki de Saint Phalle blew up sculptures. In 1968, Michael Heizer created a zig-zag trench installation. In 2016 Ugo Rondinone built \"Seven Magic Mountains.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2094404", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2094404", "title": "Nikon FG", "text": "Nikon FG\n\nThe Nikon FG is an interchangeable lens, 35 mm film, single-lens reflex (SLR) camera. It was manufactured by Nippon Kogaku K. K. (Nikon Corporation since 1988) in Japan from 1982 to 1986.\n\nThe FG was the successor to the Nikon EM camera of 1979 and the predecessor of the Nikon FG-20 of 1984. These three cameras comprised Nikon's first family of ultra compact 35mm SLR camera bodies. Although the FG had a much less advanced shutter than the more expensive Nikons of the day, it had a very sophisticated electronic design compared to earlier electromechanical Nikons.\n\n\n\nThe FG's metering system is controlled by a micro-computer which measures center-weighted brightness, using a sensitive silicon photodiode (SPD) sensor. The metering system performs 'instant stop down metering', where the meter reading is taken after the lens is stopped down but before the mirror flips up and the shutter opens.\n\nIn 'P' (Programmed AE) mode, the micro-computer calculates stepless aperture (f/stop) and stepless shutter speed using pre-programmed values.\n\nIn 'A' (Aperture Priority AE) mode, the micro-computer calculates a stepless shutter speed for a given user-selected aperture value.\n\nIn 'M' (Manual Exposure Control) mode, the user selects both aperture and shutter speed, and the metering system provides a suggested shutter speed (indicated in the viewfinder) for the selected aperture.\n\n\nThe focusing screen is a standard Nikon 'K-type' screen with:\n\nDisplayed on the right side of the viewfinder are:\n\nThe FG was also Nippon Kogaku’s first amateur level SLR to have through-the-lens TTL off-the-film (OTF) electronic flash automation. However this technology was first introduced with the Olympus OM-2 in 1976. and was also used previously in the Nikon F3 introduced in 1980. TTL OTF flash exposure control is more precise than previous methods as it measures the flash exposure at the film plane rather than at the flash itself. Correct flash exposure is achieved via a SPD cell at the base of the mirror box, which measures light reflected back from the film plane.\n\nThe FG can only connect to flashes via the hot shoe connection, as it lacks a PC sync socket. Flashes which do not have a hot shoe can be used with a hot shoe-sync cord adapter.\n\n\n\nThe FG can be used with any dedicated Nikon speedlights (flashes) which support TTL flash exposure, and any non-dedicated flash units in either automatic or manual modes.\n\nDedicated, hot shoe mounted Nikon speedlights available during the time the FG was manufactured were the SB-E, SB-15, SB-16B, SB-18 and SB-19.\n\nThe 1970s and 1980s were an era of intense competition between the major SLR brands: Nikon, Canon, Minolta, Pentax and Olympus. This was in part a result of rapid advances in electronics at the time, which allowed new cameras to be released more frequently and with more automated features than had been possible previously.\n\nBetween c. 1975 to 1985, there was a dramatic shift away from heavy all-metal manual mechanical camera bodies to much more compact bodies with integrated circuit (IC) electronic automation. As a result of the manufacturing climate of the time, the EM and subsequent FG and FG-20 were released with much lower price points, and more compact and user-friendly bodies than previous Nikons, to appeal to the amateur photographer market.\n\nThe FG was intended to improve on the short-comings of the EM (which had no manual override) and to compete with other programmed SLRs of the time, such as the Canon AE-1 Program (released 1981) the Minolta X-700 (released 1981) or the Pentax Super Program (in the USA/Canada; Super A, rest of the world; 1983).\n\nThe FG was well received by many amateur photographers, but was criticised by others due to the lower build-quality and reliability when compared to other Nikons of the same era. The FG has known reliability issues, particularly with its shutter components and ICs.\n\nThe major improvements of the FG compared to the EM were improved exterior cosmetics, internal printed circuit electronics, the addition of the manual exposure and programmed autoexposure modes, and provision for TTL flash automation.\n\nThe FG-20 is a simplified version of the Nikon FG, with no Programmed AE mode, no TTL OTF flash, and no exposure control, but retaining Aperture Priority AE, and manual and auto flash exposure control.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2094406", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2094406", "title": "Reznik", "text": "Reznik\n\nReznik is a surname derived from Czech \"řezník\" (\"butcher\") or Yiddish \"reznik\" (borrowed from a Slavic language, \"Jewish ritual slaughterer\"). Notable people with the surname include:\n\n\nFictional characters:\n\n"}
