{"id": "2071490", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2071490", "title": "Television documentary", "text": "Television documentary\n\nDocumentary television is a genre of television programming that broadcasts documentaries.\n\nTelevised documentary finds its roots in film, photojournalism, and radio. Traditionally, much of television documentary production was done using 16mm film cameras with quarter inch tape recorders providing sync sound. The small and agile nature of 16mm film crews made them ideal for shooting documentaries in hostile environments as events were unfolding. Before portable video recorders became common place in the industry, 16mm film cameras were the only method of production that did not require significant technological infrastructure. Using just an Arriflex or Eclair 16mm camera, a Nagra tape recorder, and a basic lighting rig these crews created some of the most significant documentaries in produced in Britain. This way of working continued until the late 1980s when portable video recorders started to be implemented in documentary production.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2071494", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2071494", "title": "Mayor of San Jose", "text": "Mayor of San Jose\n\nThe Mayor of San Jose, officially the Mayor of the City of San José, is executive of the Government of the City of San Jose.\n\nThe mayor presides over the San Jose City Council, which is composed of 11 voting members, including the mayor. While the mayor is the head of the city council, they have no veto powers over legislation passed by the Council, as the city uses a council-manager form of government. The mayor serves a four-year term and is limited to two successive terms.\n\nThere are 65 people who have served as San Jose's mayor. The current mayor is Democrat Sam Liccardo, who took office in January 2015 and was elected with 50.76% of the popular vote.\n\nSpanish rule\n\nMexican rule:\n\nBefore 1967, mayors of San Jose were nominated and elected by the San Jose City Council.\n\n\nSince 1967, San Jose has elected its mayors by a popular vote. Due to state laws regarding primary elections, political parties cannot nominate candidates for mayor, although candidates often choose to identify with a party. All registered candidates, regardless of party affiliation, compete in an vote held in June of the election year. If no person gets over 50% of the popular vote, the top two candidates automatically move to a runoff election.\n\nAll elected mayors of San Jose have been members of the Democratic Party. The first elected mayor was Ron James and the first female mayor was Janet Gray Hayes.\n\nMany mayors of San Jose have either served in other public offices or been influential in the private sector following their tenures. Norman Y. Mineta subsequently became a congressman, U.S. Secretary of Commerce and U.S. Secretary of Transportation. Mayor Ron Gonzales served as Mayor and Councilmember of the City of Sunnyvale prior to being elected to the Santa Clara County Board of Supervisors where he was elected to serve as a County Supervisor before his election to the San Jose City Council where he serve two terms as Mayor.\n\nChuck Reed served as an elected member to the San Jose City Council for four consecutive terms. Two as the District 4 representative and two terms as Mayor. He was also appointed to the San Jose Planning Commission. \nThe following is a list of statewide or federal public offices held by mayors before or after their term(s).\n\n\nElmer E. Chase was the first mayor who was not the city's chief executive; the city moved to a council-manager government corresponding to his election. Chase and all following mayors are simply the president of the city council.\n"}
{"id": "2071500", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2071500", "title": "The Six Wives of Henry VIII (album)", "text": "The Six Wives of Henry VIII (album)\n\nThe Six Wives of Henry VIII is the second studio album by English keyboardist Rick Wakeman, released in January 1973 on A&M Records. It is an instrumental progressive rock album with its concept based on his interpretations of the musical characteristics of the wives of Henry VIII. After signing with A&M as a solo artist, Wakeman decided on the album's concept during a tour of the United States as a member of the rock band Yes. As he read a book about the subject on his travels, melodies he had written the previous year came to him and were noted down. Musicians from Yes and from Strawbs, the group Wakeman was in prior to Yes, also play on the album.\n\n\"The Six Wives of Henry VIII\" received mostly positive reviews from critics. It reached number 7 on the UK Albums Chart and number 30 on the \"Billboard\" 200 in the United States. It was certified gold by the Recording Industry Association of America in 1975 for over 500,000 copies sold in the United States. In 2009, Wakeman performed the album in its entirety for the first time at Hampton Court Palace as part of the 500th anniversary celebration of Henry's accession to the throne, released as \"The Six Wives of Henry VIII Live at Hampton Court Palace\". The tracks were rearranged with sections, including a track dedicated to Henry himself, that were left off the original album due to the limited time available on a single record. \"The Six Wives of Henry VIII\" was reissued in 2015 with a quadraphonic sound mix and bonus tracks.\n\nIn August 1971, Rick Wakeman joined the progressive rock band Yes as a replacement for their original keyboardist Tony Kaye. Towards the end of the year, he signed a five-album deal with A&M Records as a solo artist. While touring the United States with Yes on their Fragile Tour promote \"Fragile\" (1971), Wakeman was informed by his manager Brian Lane that A&M co-founder and executive Jerry Moss wished to meet him at A&M Studios in Los Angeles. Moss wished for Wakeman to record a solo album and offered an advance of $12,500, around £4,000, to produce it which Wakeman accepted. As part of his signing on fee, Wakeman received a 1957 Cadillac limousine from A&M which he claimed was once owned by Clark Gable and had it shipped to England. Wakeman chose it after the label asked him what he would want as a present and remembered he had seen the car in the building's parking lot.\n\nWakeman was disappointed with his playing early on in the Fragile Tour, so he used his solo album as a way of cheering himself up. He assembled some rough ideas onto a tape but upon playback, he thought they had lacked any strong direction. Upon resuming the Fragile Tour, Wakeman bought four books at an airport bookstall in Richmond, Virginia, including one about Henry VIII and his six wives titled \"The Private Life of Henry VIII\" (1964) by Scottish writer Nancy Brysson Morrison. As he read about Anne Boleyn on the subsequent flight to Chicago, a theme he recorded in November 1971 ran through his mind which he wrote on some hand drawn ledger lines and played during the sound check and the subsequent concert. Said Wakeman: \"I had been searching for a style to write in and suddenly I found it in writing music about these six ladies...I would concentrate on one of the wives and then music just came into my head and I would write it down. Sometimes I was flying, other times I was on stage, or just in front of the piano at home ... The six wives theme gave me the thread, the link, I needed to give me a reason for putting these pieces of music together.\" He explains the album's concept further in its liner notes: \"The album is based around my interpretations of the musical characteristics of the wives of Henry VIII. Although the style may not always be in keeping with their individual history, it is my personal conception of their characters in relation to keyboard instruments.\" Wakeman elaborated and wrote the music as if he was doing a surreal painting, \"sketches of how I felt about them at the time\".\n\nRecording took place in London at Morgan and Trident Studios between February and October 1972 during gaps in recording and touring with Yes. Having produced an early demo of ideas for the album, Wakeman used it to pick out which musicians would suit each track. Seven musicians from Yes and Strawbs, the folk rock group Wakeman had performed with prior to Yes, play on the record. It was to be named \"Henry VIII and His Six Wives\" with a track dedicated for Henry himself, but Wakeman had recorded the tracks on the wives first and used up the available space on a vinyl record. He decided to leave the Henry track and rename the album accordingly.\n\nWhen the album was finished, its final production cost had reached around £25,000. Wakeman described working on it as \"difficult and cumbersome\", but said the project was eventually a rewarding one. He was excited when it came to presenting the album to A&M management at their London office, which included a lawyer who represented the label's US division. After the album was played in the office, Wakeman \"sensed that something was not right in the room. There was pretty much silence as it finished\". The lawyer thought it was a good work in progress and looked forward to hearing vocals added to the music, yet Wakeman explained that he wished to produce an instrumental keyboard album. To make matters worse, Wakeman recalled the head of the label's UK division felt the album would be too difficult to sell, and another attendee estimated that around 50,000 copies had to be sold to become profitable. With little faith in the album, A&M pressed an initial 12,500 copies in the hope of earning back their money. Wakeman summarised: \"I was absolutely deflated\".\n\nThe album's cover photograph was taken at the Madame Tussauds wax museum in London, where a figure of Richard Nixon can be seen in the background as the curtain was not fully closed.\n\nThe basis of \"Catherine of Aragon\" was originally a piece that Wakeman wrote for \"Fragile\" with a working title of \"Handle with Care\". Its title came about as staff at Trident Studios recommended the tape's storage box be labelled something misleading to lower the risk of theft and the tapes being sold as bootlegs. The box that had the song's tape in had a label that read \"Handle with care for the Joe Loss Orchestra\", which Wakeman took and adapted for the track's title. \"I thought, 'No one is going to nick that!', and they didn't\". Recorded at Trident Studios in London, the track features Yes's guitarist Steve Howe and bassist Chris Squire with percussionist Ray Cooper.\n\nBy the time production began on \"Catherine Howard\", engineer Ken Scott was replaced by Paul Tregurtha. Strawbs member Chas Cronk, who plays the bass guitar on the track, recalled the \"total confusion\" during the recording and \"couldn't make head or tail of what [we] were doing. We were going through it part by part and I couldn't see how all the parts were going to match up.\" He noted that Rick \"knew exactly what he was going to do although he had nothing written down. It was all stored in his head.\"\n\nWakeman describes \"Anne of Cleves\" as a \"rather free-form\" track, \"almost having no form at all, there was a contradiction in what everyone was playing. The guys in the band thought I was completely barking, but it had to be like that.\"\n\nThe organ on \"Jane Seymour\" was recorded at St Giles-without-Cripplegate church in London. \"I couldn't reproduce the sound I needed on an electronic organ, so we got permission to move the recording equipment into St Giles\" said Wakeman. \"It was quite an experience playing a lovely instrument like that.\" He wished for the track not to come across overly religious, so Wakeman recorded some overdubs of drums, harpsichord, and Moog synthesiser.\n\nWhile recording \"Anne Boleyn\", a dream Wakeman had about attending her execution caused him to include a version of \"St. Clement\", the tune to the hymn \"The Day Thou Gavest, Lord, is Ended\" written by John Ellerton. Though E. J. Hopkins is credited on the album, the piece is generally attributed to Reverend Clement Scholefield. Wakeman also plays a rare portative organ made in the 1700s with reeds and wooden pipes, giving it a sound that he compared to someone's breath.\n\nTo promote the album, Wakeman played excerpts from it on the BBC 2 television music show \"The Old Grey Whistle Test\" on 16 January 1973. Show producer Colin Strong and director Mike Appleton contacted A&M who got staffer Tony Burdfield to send them a copy, and liked the album which led to Wakeman being invited on the show. Wakeman brought along Cronk and Cousins to play the additional parts. Prior to recording they got drunk in the studio bar. An audience of around 10 million planned to watch a controversial film about American pop figure Andy Warhol on ITV, but was temporarily banned for screening. Wakeman recalled: \"It seems most of them, rather than watch repeats, switched over to \"Whistle Test\" and saw my preview of 'Henry'...and suddenly it seemed as if the whole country had discovered my music...it was a tremendous break\".\n\nFollowing the album's release on 23 January 1973, it topped the album charts in four countries. It entered the UK Albums Chart at number 12 before it climbed to its peak position of number 7 the following week on 3 March 1973, and stayed on the chart for 13 weeks during its initial run. The album reappeared on the chart for seven non-consecutive weeks in 1973 alone, and twice more in 1975. In February 2015, the album re-entered the UK chart for one week at number 86. In the United States, the album reached a peak of number 30 on \"Billboard\" 200 chart for the week of 30 March 1973, during a 45-week stay on the chart.\n\nBy July 1973, the album had sold 300,000 copies. In the following year, Wakeman was presented a platinum disc at the Midem Festival for sales exceeding two million. On 20 October 1975, the album was certified gold by the Recording Industry Association of America for 500,000 copies sold in the United States. Wakeman claimed the sales figure grew to six million five years after its release. Modern reports indicate the album has sold an estimated 15 million copies worldwide.\n\nThe album received a mixed reaction from music critics upon release. Though the album was seen by some as one of the worst examples of the progressive rock genre, the record was well received by others. \"Time\" magazine named it one of the best pop albums of 1973, describing the album as \"an astonishing classic-rock hybrid\". Steve Apple wrote a review for \"Rolling Stone\" in 1973, noting Wakeman had \"made his bid for Keith Emerson's place as the master of keyboard electronics\" but thought his playing suffered a little in technique. Apple noticed \"a brilliant feel for tasteful impressionistic composition\", having made \"an exceptionally interesting instrumental album with superb production\". He also praised the production and mixing, and picked \"Catherine Howard\" as the album's best track. Henry Mendoza reviewed the album for \"The San Bernardino County Sun\" and noted that despite the album's \"interesting format\" and its \"excellent showcase\" for Wakeman's keyboard skills, Mendoza thought the music sounded too much the same and was \"monotonous and boring\". \"The San Mateo County Times\" printed a very positive review from Peter J. Barsocchini, who thought the album is \"something just short of amazing\" and \"a supremely textured work which transcends most of the finest keyboard work being done in pop music today\". He loosely compared the music to that of progressive rock band Emerson, Lake & Palmer, and mentioned Wakeman's \"lyrical\" and \"deep, vast sound\". In a retrospective review, Mike DeGange of AllMusic described Wakeman's use of his synthesizers as \"masterful\" and \"instrumentally stunning\", and rated the album 4.5 out of 5.\n\nExcerpts from the album were first performed during Wakeman's solo spots on Yes's Fragile Tour from 1971–1972. A recording of his solo was included on the band's first live album \"Yessongs\" (1973) titled \"Excerpts from 'The Six Wives of Henry VIII'\", as well as their same-titled concert film (1975) and the box set \"\" (2015).\nIn 1973, Wakeman wrote a letter asking to perform the album live at Hampton Court Palace. He was denied permission, and \"got the impression that what [he] had asked was tantamount to treason\". A full performance of the album was never held until he was asked to perform it in its entirety for the 500th anniversary to Henry's accession to the throne, 36 years after the album's release. A stage was constructed outside the main palace entrance to seat 5,000 people. Wakeman performed with his band The English Rock Ensemble, the English Chamber Choir and the Orchestra Europa, on 1 and 2 May 2009. Featured in the setlist was \"Defender of the Faith\", the track Wakeman wrote about Henry before it was omitted from the album due to time constraints. The shows were released on CD, DVD and Blu-ray titled \"The Six Wives of Henry VIII Live at Hampton Court Palace\" on 5 October that year.\n\nAll tracks written by Wakeman. \"Anne Boleyn\" incorporates \"The Day Thou Gavest Lord Hath Ended\" written by Rev. Clement Cotteril Scholefield arr. Wakeman.\n\nCredits are adapted from the album's sleeve notes.\n\nMusic\n\n\nAdditional musicians\n\nProduction and design\n\nBooks\n"}
{"id": "2071507", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2071507", "title": "Qatar Foundation", "text": "Qatar Foundation\n\nQatar Foundation for Education, Science and Community Development () is a semi-private chartered, non-profit organization in Qatar, founded in 1995 by then-emir Sheikh Hamad bin Khalifa Al Thani and his second wife Moza bint Nasser. In addition to private funding, it is government-supported and in some ways government-funded. Qatar Foundation (QF), chaired by Sheikha Moza bint Nasser, has spearheaded Qatar's endeavors to establish itself as a leader in education, science, and cultural development on both a regional and global scale. QF has stated an aim \"to support Qatar on its journey from a carbon economy to a knowledge economy by unlocking human potential.\"\n\nThe organization's initiatives are oriented towards education, science and research, and community development. It has solicited a number of international universities to establish campuses in Qatar as part of its goal to develop a youth population with the necessary expertise to maintain a knowledge economy. Its main science and research agenda is developing Qatar's technological capacity by researching new technologies which can be successfully commercialized. In addition to diversifying the economy, this strategy also helps satisfy Qatar's aim of becoming a research and development hub. The foundation's social development programs aim to preserve Qatar's culture, \"foster a progressive society\" and to confront pressing social issues.\n\nJoint venture partnerships in the areas of design, information and communication technologies, policy studies, and event management also contribute to fulfilling the objectives of Qatar Foundation. Several small Qatari firms have thrived under the auspices of the Foundation; one example being Pragmatech, a subsidiary of United Development Company which has established a reputation for its text processing, document summarizing and referencing software.\n\nIn primary and secondary education, Qatar Foundation has several initiatives. Examples include establishing five Qatar Academy branches, opening Awsaj Academy, a school for children with learning difficulties, and opening Qatar Leadership Academy in collaboration with the Qatar Armed Forces. Furthermore, the foundation launched the Academic Bridge Program, a post-secondary school program that helps students transition from high school to university.\n\nA major reform of the K–12 education system was embarked upon by Qatar Foundation in 2003, resulting in the formation of the RAND-Qatar Policy Institute and the subsequent publishing of the institute's assessment and recommendations in \"Education for a New Era: Design and Implementation of K-12 Education Reform in Qatar\". As a response to declining standardized test scores, Qatar Foundation terminated its partnership with the RAND Corporation in 2013.\n\nIn higher education, Qatar Foundation established branch campuses of eight international universities and one home-grown university at the main campus just outside Doha:\n\nThese centers sit alongside the Qatar Faculty of Islamic Studies which began its first graduate classes in the 2007–2008 academic year. An international center for Islamic thinking and dialogue, it aims to produce scholars who are grounded in Islamic faith, practice and civilization. It offers master's degrees in Islamic finance, contemporary Islamic studies and Islamic public policy.\n\nRoughly half of these universities' students are Qatari, and it is claimed that around 90 different nationalities in total are represented by the students, faculty and staff at the Foundation campus.\n\nThe Foundation has managed to make an impact within its first decade or so in operation. Scholars at the centers such as Weill Cornell Medical College have made contributions to studies on genetics and AIDS, and the peer-reviewed periodical Academic Medicine published a study on Weill Cornell Medical College’s Medical Ethics and Humanities course for premedical students. The course, first offered in 2003, is designed to prepare students for the medical school curriculum, and the report pointed to challenges such as cross-cultural tensions that could emerge when introducing themes from Western medical ethics and humanities into an Islamic context like Qatar. \"The authors outline the response to this challenge and strategies to broaden student inquiry without engaging in indoctrination,\" it said.\n\nAs part of the Foundation's activities in education, it sponsors the World Innovation Summit for Education (WISE), a global forum that brings together education professionals, opinion leaders and decision-makers from all over the world to discuss educational issues. The summit has been held in Doha since 2009.\n\nA program known as the Qatar Science Leadership Program was initiated in 2008 in order to help develop aspiring applied science students. In 2014, the program's first PhD scholar graduated from university. The majority of the universities on Qatar Foundation's campus run their own research programs, often collaborating with QF's own applied research bodies. In addition to the university programs, QF has formed international partnerships, including with the Royal Society and the James Baker Institute for Public Policy at Rice University.\n\nStars of Science, a reality TV show was launched in 2009 in order to discover \"young Arab innovators\". The show features Arab innovators who compete to transform ideas into marketable products. A cash prize of $1 million is awarded to the winner.\n\nA notable research initiative organized by Qatar Foundation is the Qatar National Research Fund (QNRF), which was established in 2006. The QNRF subsidizes competitively selected research by both local and international researchers for projects that adhere to Qatar's national research strategy. This initiative is geared towards the development of a knowledge-based economy.\n\nIn 2007, a research division was established at Qatar Foundation to manage developing a scientific community in Qatar. It has hosted several international conferences in the fields of biotechnology, nanotechnology, and stem cell research. The research division also formed the Distinguished Lecture Series, which exposes Qatari students, researchers, and the public to distinguished scientists.\n\nThe Qatar Science & Technology Park (QSTP), a research and development hub, was inaugurated in March 2009. At an investment of more than $800 million by Qatar Foundation, it became Qatar's first free-trade zone. In 2010, the Qatar Computing Research Institute (QCRI) was founded as a vehicle to conduct multidisciplinary applied computing research. Research topics include Arabic language computer technologies, computer security and data analysis.\n\nIn the environmental sciences, Qatar Foundation founded the Qatar Green Building Council in 2009 with the aim of promoting the importance of environmental sustainability.\n\nThe Qatar Environmental & Energy Research Institute (QEERI) was launched in 2011 and encompasses the fields of energy, environment, food and water resources. The institute's vision places an emphasis on the research of alternative energy technology.\n\nIn 2012, the Qatar Biomedical Research Institute (QBRI) was established to develop translational biomedical research and biotechnology, focusing on diabetes, cancer and cardiovascular diseases. Another initiative launched by Qatar Foundation is the Sidra Medical and Research Center, which is reportedly the first hospital of its kind in the Middle East region. Endowed with $7.9 billion by Qatar Foundation, it is a large-scale project designed with upscale healthcare and education facilities intended to provide health services to the whole GCC region. After several delays, Sidra's hospital officially opened on 14 January, 2018.\n\nIn June 2011, Qatar Foundation hosted the seventh World Conference of Science Journalists, which had been scheduled to be held in Cairo but was moved to Doha as a result of the 2011 Egyptian Revolution. In 2012, the 18th United Nations Climate Change Conference (or 'Conference of the Parties', or more commonly 'COP18') was held at Qatar National Convention Centre under the auspices of Qatar Foundation. The inaugural World Innovation Summit for Health (WISH) was launched by Qatar Foundation at the Qatar National Convention Centre in December 2013. The event witnessed over 500 attendees from 40 different countries discuss international health problems.\n\nQatar Foundation's community development initiatives are based on three primary pillars. The first pillar mandates the \"fostering of a progressive society\". Secondly, \"enhancing cultural life and protecting Qatar’s heritage\" is enshrined in the foundation's community development policy. This goal is signified by the presence of the a \"sidra tree\" in the foundation's logo, a symbol associated with the Islamic Sidrat al-Muntaha and an evergreen tree, \"Ziziphus spina-christi\", which is native to Qatar. The last pillar involves \"addressing the community's immediate social needs\". An example of an initiative designed to meet this goal is the Qatar Diabetes Association, which was incorporated in Qatar Foundation in order to raise public awareness of the rising rates of diabetes and assist in its management.\n\nAl Shaqab, an equine education resource centre, became a member of Qatar Foundation in 2004. The institution is considered a testament to the historic role that horse racing and breeding played in Qatari culture. Facilities include a riding academy, an endurance training complex, and a centre for the breeding and showing of Arabian horses.\n\nAl Jazeera Children's Channel (JCC) was launched in 2005 as a joint venture between Al Jazeera and Qatar Foundation with the aim of \"preserving Arab cultural identity\". With 90 percent of the channel being owned by Qatar Foundation, it broadcast from the Foundation's Doha campus along with Baraem, the Arabic channel aimed at preschoolers. Al Jazeera announced in 2013 that it was in the process of acquiring full ownership of the channel.\n\nIn 2006, Qatar National Library (then known as Dar Al Kutub Library) became a member of Qatar Foundation. On November 19, 2012, Moza bint Nasser, chairperson of Qatar Foundation, announced plans for a new national library. Education City was chosen as the location of the new library. A notable attraction within the library is the Arab and Islamic Heritage section which contains a historic collection of books, periodicals, manuscripts, maps, and scientific instruments dating back to the 15th century. One of the largest online collections of historic records on the Persian Gulf countries was digitized in October 2014 and made available on the website of the Qatar Digital Library (QDL). The website was the culmination of a partnership established between Qatar Foundation, Qatar National Library, and the British Library in 2012.\n\nThe Qatar Philharmonic Orchestra was formed in 2007 at the behest of Qatar Foundation with an initial budget of $14 million. Founded with a base of around 100 musicians, the orchestra's mission is to augment Qatar's cultural climate by honoring both Arab and Western musical culture through public performances.\n\nQatar Foundation opened in December 2010 in association with Qatar Museums Authority. In addition to hosting exhibitions, the museum holds one of the largest collections of sculptures and paintings by Arab artists in the world. The museum has also published an online encyclopedia of Arab artists.\n\nMsheireb Properties (a subsidiary of Qatar Foundation) initiated a $5.5 billion commercial development project in Doha in January 2010. Originally called \"Heart of Doha\", the project was renamed \"Msheireb Downtown Doha\" in reference to the historical name of the area.\n\nThe Qatar Diabetes Association, founded in 1995, became a member of Qatar Foundation in 1999. Its mission is to provide programs and services to assist the general public in the management and prevention of diabetes.\n\nThe Social Development Center was established in 1996 by Moza bint Nasser to organize community programs for Qatari families. It promotes the building of stable and self-sufficient families by offering workplace training and providing courses in financial management. Another cardinal goal of the center involves promoting Islamic social values.\n\nQatar Foundation established Reach Out To Asia (ROTA) – a charity initiative focused on assisting community development projects in Asian countries – in 2005. ROTA campaigns for education in developing countries. The organization has carried out activities in countries such as Pakistan, Indonesia, Lebanon, and Gaza.\n\nIn 2006, Moza bint Nasser founded The Doha International Family Institute (DIFI). The institute conducts research and promotes scholarship on the legal, sociological and scientific basis of the family as the fundamental unit of society. It has consultative status with the United Nations Economic and Social Council (UNECOSOC).\n\nThe QatarDebate Center was established in 2007. In addition to organizing workshops and competitions with the intent of raising the standards of open discussion among Qatari students, the center also hosted the World Schools Debating Championship in 2010. Also launched in 2007 was the Qatar Career Fair (QCF), an annual event held at the Qatar National Convention Centre which showcases the range of career options available to Qatari students and graduates.\n\nThe Qatar National Convention Centre was inaugurated by QF in December 2011. It features a 2,300-seat auditorium.\n\nJoint ventures in the fields of science and research, education and social development are deemed essential to Qatar's transition from an oil-based economy to a knowledge-based economy, as outlined in the Qatar National Vision 2030. Thus, the Foundation has set up a number of commercial joint ventures with global partners. Profits generated are shared by both parties, with Qatar Foundation's portion being distributed into its core nonprofit activities.\n\nFitch Qatar is a joint venture design company that creates brands and develops corporate identities for businesses and other organizations. It was jointly created by QF with Fitch London. Some of the company's clientele include the National Health Authority, the Qatar Museums Authority, and Barwa Group.\n\nQatar MICE Development Institute (QMDI) is a joint venture created with Singex Global to manage conferences, conventions, and other events. It was formed in 2007. One of the company's main areas of focus is the QF's Qatar National Convention Centre.\n\nVodafone entered in a partnership with QF to establish Vodafone Qatar in 2008. It was granted a fixed telecommunications in September 2008, thereby becoming the second mobile network operator to be licensed in the country. It officially launched its services in Qatar in March 2009.\n\nLaunched in November 2008, MEEZA is a joint-venture IT service provider catering to businesses. It was established to support Qatar's ICT sector amidst the country's population boom and technological transition. A major agreement was reached by Meeza in December 2015 stipulating the management of Maersk Oil's IT operations in Qatar.\n\nQatar Solar Technologies (QSTec) is an alternative energy company created in 2010 as part of a partnership between Qatar Foundation, SolarWorld and Qatar Development Bank. In December 2011, QSTec announced that it would be constructing a production plant in Ras Laffan Industrial City with a planned initial capacity of 4,000 metric tons of polysilicon every year. In August 2017, SolarWorld founder Frank Asbeck and QSTec bought out SolarWorld in a joint venture deal and rebranded it as SolarWorld Industries.\n\nBloomsbury Qatar Foundation Publishing (BQFP), launched in tandem with Bloomsbury Publishing, became the first publishing house to be established in Qatar in December 2008. It formerly published books in Arabic and English with the mission of promoting a culture of literacy throughout the region. It became defunct in December 2015 and all of its publications were incorporated in the newly established HBKU Press, a member of QF. At the time of BQFP's dissolution it had published over 200 books. Bloomsbury Qatar Foundation Journals (BQFJ), an open access, peer review academic publisher, was also incorporated in HBKU Press. BQFJ began publishing journal research articles through its website \"Qscience.com\" in December 2010, during the 2010 Qatar Foundation Annual Research Forum. The website maintained more than fifteen specialized and multidisciplinary journals in 2014.\n\nOn 10 December 2010, FC Barcelona announced it had agreed a shirt sponsorship deal worth up to €170 million with Qatar Sports Investments to place Qatar Foundation's name on the front of the team's shirts, ending Barcelona's tradition of not accepting payment for sponsors displayed on its jersey. The deal included a clause allowing a switch in sponsor after the first two seasons, so Qatar Airways took over as the main sponsor in July 2013. \n\nIn October 2011, the Wikimedia Foundation announced a plan to work with the Qatar Foundation to support the growth of the Arabic Wikipedia. Later, the media reported that the Wikipedia page for the Qatar Foundation was allegedly edited by a public relations associate of the foundation, for which there was \"strong, if circumstantial evidence\". It was claimed by Qatar Foundation in November 2015 that the partnership had culminated in the creation of over 6,000 articles on the Arabic Wikipedia.\n\n"}
{"id": "2071508", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2071508", "title": "Oil City, Wisconsin", "text": "Oil City, Wisconsin\n\nOil City is an unincorporated community in the Town of Sheldon in Monroe County, Wisconsin, United States. It was the site of a nineteenth-century oil swindle. It is located about halfway between Wilton and Ontario on WI-131.\n\nA cemetery in the area, known either as the Sheldon Township Cemetery or the Oil City Cemetery, was used from the 1860s to the early 1900s. It was plowed over by a local farmer in the 1940s; while the cemetery has since been restored, many of the original headstones are now gone.\n"}
{"id": "2071512", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2071512", "title": "Sethrida Geagea", "text": "Sethrida Geagea\n\nSethrida Tawk Geagea (), is a Lebanese politician and MP representing the district of Bsharri.\n\nSethrida Geagea hails from a prominent Maronite Lebanese Tawk family that owned businesses in West Africa (Ghana). Her political activism began while at the Lebanese American University (LAU) and it led to meeting the leader of the Lebanese Forces (LF), Samir Geagea, whom she married in 1991. She earned a BS in Political Science in 1994.\n\n"}
{"id": "2071515", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2071515", "title": "Modular invariant", "text": "Modular invariant\n\nIn mathematics, a modular invariant may be\n"}
{"id": "2071550", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2071550", "title": "Hugh Norman-Walker", "text": "Hugh Norman-Walker\n\nSir Hugh Selby Norman-Walker (17 December 1916 – 28 August 1985) was a British colonial official. He served in India from 1938 to 1948. Joining the Colonial Office in 1949, he successively served as an Administrative Officer and an Assistant Secretary in Nyasaland, and was seconded to the Cabinet Office of the Federation of Rhodesia and Nyasaland in 1953. He returned to Nyasaland to become Development Secretary in 1954, Deputy Financial Secretary in 1960 and Secretary to the Treasury in 1961. He remained in the government until 1965 when Nyasaland gained independence as Malawi in 1964. In 1965, Sir Hugh was posted to the Bechuanaland Protectorate as Her Majesty's Commissioner. Knighted in 1966, in September of the same year he witnessed the independence of the Protectorate as Botswana. In the next year, Norman-Walker was posted to the Seychelles as the Governor and Commander-in-Chief but his short tenure came to an end when he was assigned to succeed Sir Michael Gass, who was in turn appointed High Commissioner for the Western Pacific, as Colonial Secretary of Hong Kong in 1969. He was once rumoured to be the designated candidate to succeed Sir David Trench as the Governor of Hong Kong, but the rumour soon died out when the post was taken up by Sir Murray MacLehose, a career diplomat, in 1971.\n\nSir Hugh was supposed to become the Lieutenant Governor of the Isle of Man when his tenure in Hong Kong ended in 1973. However, when it became known that his wife would not accompany him, he was forced to decline the offer. Sir Hugh was not compensated with another post for his withdrawal. He spent his retirement in England and was appointed chairman of the Isle of Wight County Structure Plan Panel in 1976.\n\nNorman-Walker was born in London on 17 December 1916 to Colonel J N Norman-Walker, CIE of the Indian Medical Service in the Indian Army. Norman-Walker did not spend his childhood with his parents, who served far away in India. He was educated first in St Cyprian's School, Eastbourne, and then Sherborne School in Dorset. Although living in England, he was able to pay several visits to his parents, and was familiar with the state of affairs in India.\n\nUpon graduation from Sherborne School, Norman-Walker entered Corpus Christi College, Cambridge where he was a noted member in the athletics team. He later graduated with a Master of Arts degree.\n\nIn 1938, Norman-Walker followed in the footsteps of his parents to India and joined the Indian Civil Service. Throughout his ten-year-long career in the Indian government, he held various posts in different departments across a wide variety of fields. However, he left India in 1948, a year after its independence, and was briefly involved in industrial business in England. This did not last long as his experience as a civil servant in India allowed him to join the Colonial Administrative Service of the Colonial Office soon in 1949, of which he was posted to Nyasaland in Africa as an Administrative Officer, and was promoted an Assistant Secretary in 1953.\nIn August 1953, when the British colony and the two protectorates in the southern Africa, namely Southern Rhodesia, Northern Rhodesia and Nyasaland federated to become the Federation of Rhodesia and Nyasaland, Norman-Walker was temporarily seconded to the Federation's Cabinet Office to help facilitate its operation. In 1954, he returned to Nyasaland to serve as Development Secretary in the government. He was acting Financial Secretary for several occasions before being appointed Deputy Financial Secretary in 1960. A year later he was made an Officer of the Order of the British Empire and was appointed Secretary to the Treasury later in the year. When Nyasaland gained independence and renamed Malawi in 1964, Norman-Walker remained in the government and was made a Companion of the Order of St Michael and St George.\n\nNorman-Walker stayed in the Malawi government until 1965 when he was appointed Her Majesty's Commissioner of the Bechuanaland Protectorate in June. Before this appointment was made, the Protectorate had been steadily on the way to independence. The capital city of the Protectorate was relocated from South Africa's Mafikeng to the Protectorate's Gaborone in February 1965. A month later self-rule was granted to the Protectorate. Norman-Walker was the last Commissioner of the Protectorate and was there to prepare for the independence, though he had very little to do in his short tenure. He was made a Knight Commander of the Order of St Michael and St George in the New Year Honours List of 1966 and he witnessed the independence of the Republic of Botswana on 30 September 1966.\n\nAfter the independence of Botswana, Norman-Walker was posted to the Seychelles in February 1967 to succeed Lord Oxford and Asquith as the Governor and Commander-in-Chief, President of both the Executive and Legislative Councils of the Seychelles and Commissioner of the British Indian Ocean Territory. However, his governorship coincided with the economic downturn of the islands. In a move to revitalise the economy, he agreed with the plans of local politicians like (later Sir) James Mancham to promote tourism in the islands and was a staunch supporter to the construction plan of the new Seychelles International Airport. The new airport plan was a huge project for the Seychelles at that time. When it was opened by Queen Elizabeth II in 1972, it became one of the most important airports in the region.\n\nApart from that, Norman-Walker positively supported political reform during his governorship by granting universal adult suffrage to the Legislative Council in December 1967, an important move which paved way for autonomy granted later in 1970.\n\nNorman-Walker served in the Seychelles for less than two years when he arrived at Hong Kong on 29 March 1969 to serve as Colonial Secretary, taking over from Sir Michael Gass who was in turn appointed High Commissioner for the Western Pacific. The career background of Norman-Walker was a concern in Hong Kong when his appointment was first announced. Norman-Walker had never served in the Far East. He had visited Hong Kong once, briefly landing on the Kowloon side, but had never been to Hong Kong Island. Local people and even some senior officials in the government were concerned that his limited experience on the Far East might hinder his work as Colonial Secretary. Elsie Tu, an Urban Councillor, even commented that the post of Colonial Secretary should be held by a local Chinese. Yet, there were also comments that selecting Norman-Walker in lieu of a senior official from within the government of Hong Kong showed a lack of suitable local candidates from the point of view of the British government. In respond to these opinions, Norman-Walker said that he had served in Africa for many years and was well experienced in public administration. He said he was ready for the challenge and would build friendship with the Chinese people of Hong Kong.\n\nIn his capacity as Colonial Secretary, Norman-Walker focused primarily on social, industrial and commercial development. In 1970, accompanied by Sir Sik-nin Chau, he led a delegation representing Hong Kong to the Expo in Osaka, Japan. Norman-Walker was also an \"ex officio\" member of both the Executive and Legislative Councils of Hong Kong. He administered the government for several occasions on the absence of the Governor. In October 1971, he was the acting Governor who welcomed the seven-day royal visit paid by the Princess Anne.\n\nRumour persisted in Hong Kong when Norman-Walker, who gave up his more prestigious governorship in the Seychelles, assumed the post of Colonial Secretary. It was alleged that a backdoor deal was made between the British government and Norman-Walker that he would take up the post of Colonial Secretary only when the British government promised to make him the successor to Sir David Trench, the incumbent Governor of Hong Kong. However, this information was never verified by Norman-Walker. The rumour died out in 1971 when Sir Murray MacLehose, a career diplomat, was announced by the British government as the Governor-designate.\n\nNevertheless, another rumour followed when the new Governor MacLehose, who brought many new policies to Hong Kong, was said to be 'diplomatic' in style and did not get on well with some of his colleagues. Some of the more old-fashioned colonial officials, such as (later Sir) Donald Luddington were alleged to have found it difficult to get on with the new Governor and were soon posted out of Hong Kong. Norman-Walker was one of these \"old-fashioned colonial officials\" and news emerged in the beginning of 1972 that he was going to retire from the government at the turn of 1973. This was not confirmed until July 1972 when the UK government announced that the term of Norman-Walker as Colonial Secretary would be extended to the autumn of 1973. In May 1973, it was further announced that Norman-Walker would become the Lieutenant Governor of the Isle of Man.\n\nAs a kind of benefit, overseas civil servants in Hong Kong were entitled to a free exclusive sea passage when they retired. Norman-Walker was eligible and chose to enjoy the benefit when he left Hong Kong on 30 September 1973. He was supposed to get on board an ocean liner like his counterparts, but it turned out that there was no ocean liner calling at Hong Kong at the time of his departure. As a result, he was forced to enjoy the entitlement on a cargo ship. On his departure, in the presence of the members of the Executive and Legislative Councils and senior government officials, Norman-Walker boarded \"Lady Maurine\" from and travelled across the Victoria Harbour to the Kowloon side. From there he travelled to Kwai Chung Container Port and boarded the cargo ship, which sailed for Britain.\n\nNorman-Walker was supposed to take up the new post as the Lieutenant-Governor of the Isle of Man after he had returned to England. But a problem arose when it became known that his wife would not accompany him. The reaction in the Isle of Man was negative, and the Tynwald insisted that Lady Norman-Walker should accompany her husband to assist the Lieutenant Governor in carrying out his social duties. In fact, it was not the first time that Norman-Walker had taken up a new post alone. When he arrived at Hong Kong to become Colonial Secretary in 1969, his wife was not with him. The absence of his wife did not attract any criticism at that time in Hong Kong, and she arrived later.\n\nAt first, Norman-Walker insisted that he would take up the new post as scheduled no matter whether his wife was with him or not. However, after several failed attempts to persuade the Tynwald, he offered to decline the new post on 31 October 1973. The incumbent Lieutenant-Governor, Sir Peter Stallard, was requested to stay until the British government had found another candidate. On 3 November, Lady Norman-Walker responded to the incident for the first time. She explained that she had been serving out of Britain for too long a time and was eager to reside in England again. She claimed that she had had no intention to be impolite to the Manx people. After the dispute, Norman-Walker was not given another post for compensation and this episode marked an end to his overseas service.\n\nNorman-Walker enjoyed a quiet life in Farley, Wiltshire in retirement. In 1976, he was appointed by the government to chair the Isle of Wight County Structure Plan Panel to consult the people of the Isle of Wight on the possible change of the county structure. Before the panel was formed, the Isle of Wight had been planned to be merged with Hampshire under the Local Government Act 1972, but the plan came to a halt when it met with much opposition from local residents. The panel led by Norman-Walker did not achieve any special breakthrough and it was in 1995 that the Isle of Wight finally became a unitary authority.\n\nNorman-Walker died in his home in Farley on 28 August 1985, aged 68. His death was mourned by the government of Hong Kong. His former colleagues in Hong Kong, then Chief Secretary Sir David Akers-Jones and then Chief Justice Sir Denys Roberts, also grieved over his death.\n\nSir Hugh was married to Janet Baldock in 1948. There was no issue from the marriage. Sir Hugh's hobbies included sailing, shooting and bridge. He was a member of the East India Club.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2071559", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2071559", "title": "Borneo campaign (1945)", "text": "Borneo campaign (1945)\n\nThe Borneo campaign of 1945 was the last major Allied campaign in the South West Pacific Area during World War II to liberate Japanese-held British Borneo and Dutch Borneo. Designated collectively as Operation Oboe, a series of amphibious assaults between 1 May and 21 July were conducted by the Australian I Corps, under Lieutenant-General Leslie Morshead, against Imperial Japanese forces who had been occupying the island since late 1941 – early 1942. The main Japanese formation on the island was the Thirty-Seventh Army under Lieutenant-General Masao Baba, while the naval garrison was commanded by Vice-Admiral Michiaki Kamada. The Australian ground forces were supported by US and other Allied air and naval forces, with the US providing the bulk of the shipping and logistic support necessary to conduct the operation. The campaign was initially planned to involve six stages, but eventually landings were undertaken at four locations: Tarakan, Labuan, North Borneo and Balikpapan. Guerilla operations were also carried out by Dayak tribesmen and small numbers of Allied personnel in the interior of the island. While major combat operations were concluded by mid-July, mopping-up operations continued throughout Borneo until the end of the war in August. Initially intended to secure vital airfields and port facilities to support future operations, preparatory bombardment resulted in heavy damage to the island's infrastructure, including its oil production facilities. As a result, the strategic benefits the Allies gained from the campaign were negligible.\n\nPrior to World War II, Borneo was divided between British Borneo, in the north of the island and Dutch Borneo in the south; the latter formed part of the Netherlands East Indies (NEI). As of 1941, the island's population was estimated to be 3 million. The great majority lived in small villages, with Borneo having less than a dozen towns. Borneo has a tropical climate and was mainly covered by dense jungle at the time of World War II. Most of the coastline was lined with mangroves or swamps.\n\nBorneo was strategically important during World War II. The European colonisers had developed oil fields and their holdings exported other raw materials. The island's location was also significant, as it sat across the main sea routes between north Asia, Malaya and the NEI. Despite this, Borneo was under-developed, and had few roads and only a single railroad. Most travel was by watercraft or narrow paths. The British and Dutch also stationed only small military forces in Borneo to protect their holdings.\n\nBorneo was rapidly conquered by the Japanese in the opening weeks of the Pacific War. The purpose of this operation was to capture the oilfields and guard the flanks of advances into Malaya and the NEI. Japanese troops landed at Sarawak on 16 December 1941, where a single battalion of British Indian troops fought a delaying action over several weeks, damaging vital oil installations. Meanwhile, on 11 January 1942, Japanese troops landed on the island of Tarakan, while parachute troops carried out a drop on the Celebes the following day; the small Dutch garrison managed to destroy some of the infrastructure before eventually being overwhelmed. The destruction of these facilities led to harsh reprisals against civilians, particularly at Balikpapan where between 80 and 100 Europeans were executed.\n\nIn the aftermath, the Imperial Japanese Army (IJA) administered the occupied British North Borneo and the Imperial Japanese Navy (IJN) was responsible for Dutch Borneo. The garrison forces on the island were very small until mid-1944. During the occupation, the local population was subjected to harsh treatment. For example, on Tarakan large numbers of people were conscripted as labourers, the economy was disrupted, and food became increasingly scarce. In late October 1943, an open revolt by local Dayak tribesmen and ethnic Chinese began which was violently suppressed with hundreds being executed. In the aftermath, many more died from diseases and starvation as Japanese policies became even more restrictive on the local population. Japanese forces conducted a number of other massacres during their occupation of Borneo.\n\nThe plans for the Allied attacks were known collectively as Operation Oboe. The invasion of Borneo was the second stage of Operation Montclair, which was aimed at destroying Imperial Japanese forces in, and re-occupying the NEI, Raj of Sarawak, Brunei, the colonies of Labuan and British North Borneo, and the southern Philippines. Borneo in particular was considered at the time a strategic location for its natural resource; oil and rubber. Tarakan was also seen to offer a forward airbase to support future operations in the region, while Brunei Bay was intended to be used as naval base. Planning for the operation began in late 1944 and early 1945 through the General Headquarters of General Douglas MacArthur's South West Pacific Area. As a result of the commitment of US forces to the recapture of the Philippines, the task of recapturing Borneo was allocated primarily to Australian ground forces. By this time the Australian I Corps, the Australian Army's main striking force, had not engaged in combat for over a year. The corps had been assigned to MacArthur, but he had chosen to not use it in the Philippines despite the Australian Government pressing for this.\n\nThe initial Allied plan comprised six stages: Operation Oboe 1 was to be an attack on Tarakan; Oboe 2 against Balikpapan; Oboe 3 against Banjarmasin; Oboe 4 against Surabaya or the capital of the NEI, Batavia (modern-day Jakarta); Oboe 5 against the eastern NEI; and Oboe 6 against British North Borneo (Sabah). In the end only the operations against Tarakan, Balikpapan and British North Borneo – at Labuan and Brunei Bay – took place. These operations ultimately constituted the last campaigns of Australian forces in the war against Japan. In the planning phase the commander of the Australian Military Forces, General Thomas Blamey recommended against the landing at Balikpapan, believing that it would serve no strategic purpose. After much consideration, the Australian Government agreed to provide forces for this operation at MacArthur's urging. Blamey was able to frustrate MacArthur's plans for Australian troops to make follow-on landings in Java by convincing Prime Minister John Curtin to withhold the 6th Division. Prior to the main landings in British North Borneo the Allies undertook a series of reconnaissance operations, codenamed Agas (northern Borneo) and Semut (Sarawak); these operations also worked to arm, train and organise the local population to under take guerilla warfare against the Japanese to support conventional operations.\n\nThe Japanese military began to prepare for the defence of Borneo from mid-1944, as Allied forces rapidly advanced towards the island. IJA reinforcements were allocated to Borneo, but did not arrive until between September and November that year. In late 1944 the Japanese command judged that Australian forces were likely to attack the Brunei area and then capture the west coast of Borneo as part of a campaign aimed at liberating Singapore. Accordingly, most of the IJA units in north-eastern Borneo were ordered to move overland to the west coast; this required them to undertake gruelling marches over rugged terrain. Two other battalions were transferred from north-eastern Borneo by sea to south Borneo between February and March 1945. After United States forces liberated key areas of the Philippines, which cut the rest of South-East Asia off from Japan, on 27 January 1945 the IJA's General Staff ordered the forces in this area to defend the territory they held and not expect reinforcements.\n\nThe main Allied ground forces assigned to the campaign came from the Australian I Corps, under Lieutenant-General Leslie Morshead. The main elements of this force consisted of two infantry divisions: the 7th and 9th. For the operation, the Australian corps was assigned as a task force directly under MacArthur's command rather than as part of the Eighth Army, which was controlling operations in the Philippines. Allied naval and air forces, centred on the U.S. 7th Fleet under Admiral Thomas Kinkaid, the Australian First Tactical Air Force, and the U.S. Thirteenth Air Force also played important roles in the campaign. A small number of Dutch personnel also took part in the operations. Over 74,000 Allied troops were assigned to the initial landings of the campaign. The bulk of the logistic support was provided by the US, particularly provision of the shipping that was required to transport the vast amounts of troops, stores and equipment required for the operation.\n\nAllied forces were resisted by IJN and IJA forces in southern and eastern Borneo, under Vice-Admiral Michiaki Kamada, and in the north-west by the Thirty-Seventh Army, led by Lieutenant-General Masao Baba, which was headquartered in Jesselton. The main elements of the Thirty-Seventh Army were the 56th Independent Mixed Brigade (northern Borneo), 71st Independent Mixed Brigade (southern Borneo) and 25th Independent Mixed Regiment; these units had been raised in Japan during the second half of 1944 and arrived in Borneo late that year. The IJN's 2nd Naval Guard Force was also stationed in Borneo. Allied intelligence assessed that there were about 32,000 Japanese troops in Borneo, with 15,000 of these being combat troops. Most of the units which had been ordered from north-eastern Borneo to the west coast were still in transit when the Australian landings began and had been greatly weakened by the difficult conditions experienced during their cross-island march. The transfers left only single battalions in place at Tarakan and Balikpapan. Japanese air power in the region, except in Java and Sumatra, was ineffective.\n\nThe campaign opened with Oboe 1, which consisted of a landing on the small island of Tarakan, off the north-east coast on 1 May 1945. This operation was undertaken to capture the island's airstrip so that it could be used to support the subsequent landings on the mainland of Borneo. Using Australian-built MK III folboats, small parties of reconnaissance troops paddled into the Tarakan region to obtain useful information and observe the Djoeta oilfields prior to an invasion.\n\nThe landing on Tarakan was assigned to the heavily reinforced 26th Brigade, under the command of Brigadier David Whitehead. This brigade's three infantry battalions were augmented with two battalions of pioneers as well as commandos and engineers. American amphibious engineers and a Dutch infantry company (made up of soldiers from Ambon Island) and civil affairs unit were also placed under Whitehead's command. Overall, the 26th Brigade had a strength of just under 12,000 troops. The Australian assault was preceded by a heavy aerial bombardment commencing 12 April, and undertaken by RAAF and US aircraft operating from Morotai Island and the Philippines; these aircraft interdicted Japanese shipping, attacked airfields, reduced obstacles around the landing beaches and suppressed artillery and defensive positions; in addition, a preliminary landing was undertaken on Sadau Island by a group of commandos and an artillery battery. Naval assets assigned to provide fire support during the operation include three cruisers, seven destroyers and several landing craft fitted with rockets and mortars. Three days prior to the assault, a force of minesweepers worked to clear the area of naval mines.\n\nDuring the main landing, the battery on Sadau Island provided fire support to the Australian engineers who were landed at Lingkas to clear obstacles on the landing beaches. Assault troops from the 2/23rd and 2/48th Infantry Battalions came ashore under the cover of a strong naval barrage. Initially, they encountered no opposition before they began to advance north towards Tarakan town. Opposition around Lingkas Hill was overcome and by the end of the first day a strong beachhead had been established. The brigade reserve, the 2/24th Infantry Battalion, was landed the next day as the advance towards the airfield continued. Japanese resistance grew, and the advance was hindered by large numbers of mines and booby traps, which had to be cleared by engineers and pioneers; however, finally, on 5 May the airfield was captured by the Australians. Meanwhile, operations continued into June as isolated pockets of Japanese resisted the Australians in tunnels and on high features across the island. The final major objective, Hill 90, was secured on 20 June, but small scale clashes continued after this. Ultimately, the airfield was so heavily damaged that it took eight weeks to repair, by which time the war was essentially over. As a result, most historians, including the Australian official historian Gavin Long, believe that the invasion of Tarakan did not justify the casualties suffered by the Allied forces; these included 225 Australians killed and 669 wounded. Japanese casualties were even heavier, with 1,540 being killed and 252 captured.\n\nThe landings in north-west Borneo had several goals. These included securing the Brunei Bay area for use as a naval base and capturing oil and rubber facilities. A total of 29,000 personnel were assigned to the operation, just over 1,000 of these were US and British personnel, while the rest were Australian. Almost 6,000 were air force personnel, while 18,000 were ground troops and 4,700 were base area personnel. Major General George Wootten's 9th Division was the main element of this force, and consisted of two infantry brigades – the 20th and 24th; the division's third brigade – the 26th Brigade – had been detached for operations on Tarakan. The troops were supported by large number of American and Australian warships and air units. In preparation for the landing, a reconnaissance party including Sergeant Jack Wong Sue, was inserted into Kimanis Bay, British North Borneo, for close reconnaissance work using a Hoehn military folboat deployed from a Catalina aircraft.\nOboe 6 began on 10 June with simultaneous assaults by the 24th Brigade on the island of Labuan and the 20th Brigade on the coast of Brunei in the north-west of Borneo. As Japanese forces were holding positions away from the coast, these landings were unopposed. The 20th Brigade encountered little resistance. After the town of Brunei was secured on 13 June, the brigade continued its advance along the coast towards the south-west. Its objective was the Miri–Lutong area, with the 2/17th Battalion moving by land while the 2/13th Battalion made an amphibious landing at Lutong on 20 June. The Japanese forces withdrew as the Australians advanced, and there was little fighting during these operations. Patrols into the interior made by the 20th Brigade with the assistance of local Dayaks into the interior were involved in several sharp engagements.\n\nWhile the 24th Brigade rapidly captured Labuan's airfield and town, it encountered sustained resistance from the Japanese garrison which was located in a well-defended stronghold. After heavy casualties were sustained during the 2/28th Battalion's initial attack against this position on 16 June it was decided to subject the area to a sustained bombardment. The battalion attacked again on 21 June with the support of tanks and rapidly defeated the Japanese forces. The fighting on Labuan cost the 24th Brigade 34 killed and 93 wounded. The Australian soldiers counted 389 Japanese dead and took 11 prisoners.\n\nA week after the initial landing on Labuan, the Australians followed up with attacks on Japanese positions around Weston on the north-eastern part of Brunei Bay. The Australians then pushed inland along the single track railway that ran from Weston towards the junction at Beaufort, north-west of Brunei Bay, and then on to Jesselton. The heaviest fighting of the operations on the mainland took place on 27/28 June during the Battle of Beaufort, during which more than 100 Japanese defenders were killed. After this engagement the 24th Brigade undertook limited further advances in order to push the Japanese forces into the hills; the brigade's limit of exploitation was the Beaufort–Tenom railway and during this period the Australian commanders adopted a cautious approach to limit casualties. Nevertheless, clashes continued into August; on 3 August, the Japanese attempted to counterattack a position held by the 2/28th Battalion. At least 11 Japanese were killed in the fighting, for the loss of one Australian.\n\nThe operations in North Borneo also involved a substantial civil affairs effort to assist the liberated civilian population; this was the largest such task undertaken by Australian forces during World War II. The 9th Division was heavily involved in providing aid to civilians and rebuilding houses and infrastructure which had been destroyed by the pre-invasion bombardments and subsequent fighting.\n\nThe conventional operations on British North Borneo were accompanied by a guerilla warfare campaign organised by Special Operations Australia (SOA). This involved two operations; Operation Agas in British North Borneo and Operation Semut in Sarawak. These operations succeeded the unsuccessful Operation Python which had been undertaken between October 1943 and January 1944.\n\nFive SOA parties were inserted in North Borneo between March and July 1945. The Agas 1 and 2 parties established networks of agents and guerrillas in north-western Borneo. The Agas 4 and 5 parties were landed on the east coast of Borneo, and achieved little. The Agas 3 party investigated the Ranau area on the request of I Corps. The results of Operation Agas were mixed; its parties established control over their areas of operation, provided intelligence of variable quality and killed less than 100 Japanese.\n\nAs part of Operation Semut over 100 Allied personnel organised into four parties were inserted by air into Sarawak from March 1945. Most of these personnel were Australian. The Semut parties were tasked with collecting intelligence and establishing guerilla forces. The inhabitants of Sarawak's interior, who were known as Dayaks, enthusiastically joined the guerilla groups and SOA personnel led small private armies. No. 200 Flight RAAF and the Royal Australian Navy's Snake-class junks played important roles in this campaign by inserting SOA personnel and supplies.\n\nThe guerilla forces launched attacks to gain control of the interior of Sarawak while the 9th Division focused on the coastal area, the oilfields, plantations and the ports in North Borneo. The guerillas operated from patrol bases around Balai, Ridan and Marudi, as well as in the mountains, along several key waterways including the Pandaruan and Limbang Rivers, and along the railway that ran between Beaufort and Tenom. They sought to disrupt the Japanese troops' freedom of movement and interdicted forces as they withdrew from the main combat zone. The RAAF flew air strikes to support the lightly armed guerillas, who at times had to evade better-armed Japanese units. The campaign was highly successful, and it is estimated that over 1,800 Japanese were killed in north Borneo through guerilla actions.\n\nThe attention of the Allies then switched back to the central east coast, with Oboe 2. The last major amphibious assault of World War II was at Balikpapan on 1 July 1945. The landing was preceded by a heavy aerial bombardment over the course of 20 days, while minesweepers worked to clear the area for 15 days, establishing safe lanes for the invasion fleet to pass and clearing proposed anchorages. These operations were undertaken inside the range of Japanese coastal guns; to protect the minesweepers, naval gunfire and aerial bombardment was used to suppress and neutralise the Japanese guns. Due to the unavailability of the Tarakan airfield, air support for the operation was provided by RAAF and US units based in the southern Philippines. Three minesweepers were lost during the clearance operations.\n\nThe invasion fleet sailed from Morotai Island on 26 June, arriving off Balikpapan on 29 June. The landing area was then subjected to over 45,000 rounds of preparatory fire from the Australian, US and Dutch warships supporting the landing. A deception plan was enacted to draw Japanese attention towards Manggar, with the Australians undertaking pre-landing operations and spreading disinformation. US underwater demolition teams cleared obstacles along the landing beach, as well as off Manggar, as part of the deception plan. For the landing operation, a total of 33,000 personnel were assigned, 21,000 of which were from the Australian 7th Division, under the command of Major General Edward Milford. This formation consisted of three brigades – the 18th, 21st and 25th – fighting together as a formation for the first time during the war. Three beaches were chosen for the landing on the southern coast between Klandasan in the east and Stalkoedo in the west; the initial assault was undertaken by three infantry battalions: the 2/10th on the extreme left, the 2/12th in the centre and the 2/27th Battalion on the right. The troops were landed at the wrong location as smoke from the pre-landing bombardment made navigation difficult, but the landing was unopposed and a beachhead was quickly established as follow on forces arrived.\n\nOperating on the left, the 18th Brigade fought to capture several high features around Klandasan and to gain control of the town and secure the harbour and port facilities in Balikpapan north-west of the landing beaches, while the 21st Brigade landed on the right, tasked with advancing east towards several Japanese airfields at Sepinggang and Manggar, along the main coastal road. The 25th Brigade was held in reserve, but after landing on 2 July, pushed inland towards Batuchampar, from the initial landing site. Balikpapan town and the port were captured on 3 July, but mopping up continued into 4 July. Along the coast, the 21st Brigade crossed the Batakan Ketjil River, where it was held up on 3 July by strong Japanese resistance, which was overcome with naval gunfire support. The following day, after crossing the Manggar Besar, the brigade came up against even stronger Japanese opposition, supported by coastal artillery and mortars defending the airfield; despite landing tanks around the river, the Australians were held up for several more days until some of the guns were captured, and heavy air strikes overwhelmed the defenders.\n\nMeanwhile, on 5 July, one of the 18th Brigade's infantry battalions – the 2/9th – along with the 2/1st Pioneer Battalion, was landed at Panadjam to clear the western shore of Japanese artillery, prior to the Allies opening the port. Against only limited opposition, the area around Panadjam was cleared within two days. Meanwhile, the airfields were secured by 9 July, but Japanese resistance was strong, utilising delaying tactics including booby traps, mines, sniping and small-scale raids. Strong resistance was met around Batuchampar where a Japanese battalion had established a stronghold, while others fought resolutely in tunnels around Manggar. Australian engineers were heavily tasked, working to clear over 8,000 mines and booby traps, as well as destroying over 100 tunnels.\n\nOnce Manggar airfield was secured, the 21st Brigade continued their advance towards Sambodja. Moving inland along a north-east road dubbed the \"Milford Highway\" by the Australians, the 25th Brigade advanced to contact with the Japanese rearguard, which was reduced with artillery support and then outflanked, triggering a withdrawal to a secondary position back on 9 July. Air strikes and artillery helped reduce this position, while infantry worked to surround the position; this was not fully achieved and by the evening of 21/22 July, the remaining defenders withdrew further inland. Opposition in these areas was largely overcome by the end of July, but mopping-up operations around Balikpapan continued until the end of the war in August as Japanese troops withdrew to the rough high ground further inland. Operations to secure Balikpapan cost the Australians 229 killed and 634 wounded, while Japanese losses were placed at 2,032 killed. A further 63 were captured.\n\nIn the aftermath of the campaign, Australian personnel remained in Borneo until late 1945 to restore civilian administration, oversee reconstruction efforts, supervising the surrender of Japanese troops, and liberating former Allied prisoners of war held in camps around Borneo. It has been claimed that Australian forces near Beaufort encouraged local fighters to massacre surrendered Japanese troops after the war in revenge for the Sandakan Death Marches, with almost 6,000 Japanese being killed. The historian Ooi Keat Gin states though that no documentary evidence supports these claims.\n\nThe amphibious operations undertaken by Australian forces throughout the Borneo campaign were, according to the historian Eustace Keogh the \"outstanding feature\" of the campaign, and represented the largest such operations that the Australians undertook during the war. They required vast amounts of naval and air support, as well as complex planning and co-operation between air, land and naval forces from several nations. A significant amount of time and resources were invested prior to the operation to train the forces assigned. The historian Peter Dennis assesses that the operations were of \"doubtful value strategically...[but]...they were skillfully conducted\". Casualties during the campaign on the Allied side amounted to about 2,100, while the Japanese suffered about 4,700 casualties. A considerable number of civilians were killed or wounded; for instance, the pre-invasion bombardment of Tarakan resulted in least 100 civilian casualties.\n\nDespite the success of the Allied landings, because of the strategic situation, the Borneo campaign was criticised in Australia at the time and in subsequent years, as pointless or a \"waste\" of the lives of soldiers, especially following the first operation in Tarakan. In assessing the necessity of the campaign, historians such as Max Hastings have said that attacking these forces, already cut off from Japan, was a waste of resources. According to Hastings, \"Any rational strategic judgment would have left them to their own devices screened by token allied forces until their nation's defeat enforced their surrender\". It has been argued that the campaign did, however, achieve a number of objectives, such as increasing the isolation of significant Japanese forces occupying the main part of the NEI, capturing major oil supplies, and freeing Allied prisoners of war, who were being held in increasingly worse conditions in the Sandakan camp and Batu Lintang camp.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2071572", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2071572", "title": "USS Charles Ausburn", "text": "USS Charles Ausburn\n\nUSS \"Charles Ausburn\" may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2071576", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2071576", "title": "Schoenoplectus acutus", "text": "Schoenoplectus acutus\n\nSchoenoplectus acutus (syn. \"Scirpus acutus, Schoenoplectus lacustris, Scirpus lacustris\" subsp. \"acutus\"), called tule , common tule, hardstem tule, tule rush, hardstem bulrush, or viscid bulrush, is a giant species of sedge in the plant family Cyperaceae, native to freshwater marshes all over North America. The common name derives from the Nāhuatl word \"tōllin\" , and was first applied by the early settlers from New Spain who recognized the marsh plants in the Central Valley of California as similar to those in the marshes around Mexico City.\n\nTules once lined the shores of Tulare Lake, California, formerly the largest freshwater lake in the western United States. It was drained by land speculators in the 20th century. The expression \"out in the tules\" is still common, deriving from the dialect of old Californian families and means \"where no one would want to live\", with a touch of irony. The phrase is comparable to \"out in the boondocks\".\n\n\"Schoenoplectus acutus\" has a thick, rounded green stem growing to tall, with long, grasslike leaves, and radially symmetrical, clustered, pale brownish flowers. Tules at shorelines play an important ecological role, helping to buffer against wind and water forces, thereby allowing the establishment of other types of plants and reducing erosion. Tules are sometimes cleared from waterways using herbicides. When erosion occurs, tule rhizomes are replanted in strategic areas.\n\nThe two varieties are:\n\nDyed and woven, tules are used to make baskets, bowls, mats, hats, clothing, duck decoys, and even boats by Native American groups. Before the Salish got horses for bison hunting, they lived in tents covered with sewed mats of tule. At least two tribes, the Wanapum and the Pomo people, constructed tule houses as recently as the 1950s and still do for special occasions. Bay Miwok, Coast Miwok, and Ohlone peoples used the tule in the manufacture of canoes or balsas, for transportation across the San Francisco Bay and using the marine and wetland resources. Northern groups of Chumash used the tule in the manufacture of canoes rather than the sewn-plank \"tomol\" usually used by Chumash and used them to gather marine harvests.\n\nThe Paiutes named a neighboring tribe the Si-Te-Cah in their language, meaning tule eaters. The young sprouts and shoots can be eaten raw and the rhizomes and unripe flower heads can be boiled as vegetables.\n\nOne of the few Pomo survivors of the Bloody Island Massacre (also called the Clear Lake Massacre) in Northern California, a 6-year-old girl named \"Ni'ka\", or Lucy Moore, evaded the United States Cavalry by hiding behind the tule reeds in the bloodied water. Her descendants have since formed the Lucy Moore Foundation to work for better relations between the Pomo and residents of California.\n\nIt is so common in wetlands in California, several places in the state were named for it, including Tulare (a \"tulare\" is a tule marsh). Tule Lake is near the Oregon border and includes Tule Lake National Wildlife Refuge. It was the site of an internment camp for Japanese Americans during World War II, imprisoning 18,700 people at its peak. The town of Tulelake is northeast of the lake. California also has a Tule River. The Tule Desert is located in Arizona and Nevada. Nevada also has Tule Springs.\n\nCalifornia's dense, ground-hugging tule fog is named for the plant, as are the tule elk and tule perch. The giant garter snake (\"Thamnophis gigas\") was historically closely associated with tule marshes in California's Central Valley.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2071580", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2071580", "title": "Pebbles cereal", "text": "Pebbles cereal\n\nCocoa Pebbles and Fruity Pebbles are brands of breakfast cereal introduced by Post Foods on October 20, 1971 featuring characters from the animated series \"The Flintstones\" as spokestoons. Cocoa Pebbles contains chocolate-flavored crisp rice cereal bits, while Fruity Pebbles contains crisp rice cereal bits that come in a variety of fruit flavors with a sugar content of 9 grams per serving for Fruity Pebbles and 10 grams per serving for Cocoa Pebbles. It is the oldest surviving cereal brand that is based on characters from a TV series or movie.\n\nFruity Pebbles and Cocoa Pebbles Cereal were reintroductions of a low market-share Post children's cereal brand called Sugar Rice Krinkles. The Product Group Manager at the time, Larry Weiss, licensed use of The Flintstones for cereal from Hanna-Barbera (now part of Warner Bros. Animation) in an attempt to reinvigorate the children's cereal business for Post Cereals. Prior to that time, character licensing had been used for promotion, but there had never been a brand created around a media character. The brand was marketed despite internal concern it would be a fad and not last more than a year. Cocoa Pebbles and Fruity Pebbles were simultaneously introduced on the West Coast in 1969 and strong consumer demand led to national distribution. The brand has been one of the most consistent best sellers ever since.\n\nThe original working names for the companion cereals were Flint Chips and Rubble Stones, consistent with the appearance of the cereal and The Flintstones' Stone Age imagery. Frank Corey, Benton & Bowles' creative head for the Post Cereal business suggested the alternative names Cocoa Pebbles and Fruity Pebbles, which were adopted.\n\nThe basic product retained the Sugar Rice Krinkles form, using the existing expander process and Battle Creek production facilities. The flavors, colors and other product formulations were carefully developed by Battle Creek product experts supported by marketing using the Linescale research technique. The objective was to create product characteristics which matched the expectations of both children and parents for what The Flintstones cereals should look and taste like. After many iterations, the Cocoa Pebbles formula was set and has remained largely unchanged over the years. Fruity Pebbles also remained essentially unchanged for decades. In recent years some additions and variations have been made to the Fruity Pebbles product formulation. The Canadian version, no longer available, came in the form of pebble-shaped puffs composed of whole wheat, corn flour, and oat flour.\n\nUnlike its sister cereal, Cocoa Pebbles, Fruity Pebbles has undergone many formula changes, additions and variants. The cereal started out with three colors—orange, red, and yellow—and natural orange, lemon and tangerine flavors, but were later flavored in natural orange and artificial lemon and cherry. New colors were added over time: purple in 1985, green in 1987, \"Berry Blue\" in 1994, \"Incrediberry Purple\" in 1995 and \"Bedrock Berry Pink\" in 2005.\n\nVariants have included \"Half Sugar Fruity Pebbles,\" \"Dino Pebbles\" (late 1980s-early 1990s), \"Marshmallow Mania Pebbles,\" and \"Bamm-Bamm Pebbles.\" A berry cereal called \"Bamm-Bamm Berry Pebbles\" was released in 2007, featuring only berry flavors. The formula for both versions of Pebbles had a major addition in 2006: polydextrose became a key ingredient.. As of 2012, polydextrose was not listed as an ingredient in any Pebbles varieties.\n\nUpon Post's acquisition of MOM Brands in 2015 (the former Malt O Meal), both the Cocoa and Fruity versions of Pebbles, along with other Post brands, began to be offered in packaging similar to that of Malt O Meal's line of bagged cereals alongside the traditional box sizes.\n\nThe earliest commercials produced by Post's ad agency D'Arcy Masius Benton & Bowles with cooperation from Hanna-Barbera featured the animated Fred Flintstone and Barney Rubble (as voiced by Alan Reed and Mel Blanc, respectively) interacting cheerfully with live-action children, eating the cereal around a typical household breakfast table; others showed Fred and Barney enjoying the cereal with their wives around their Bedrock breakfast table or in other locales and situations in Bedrock. Commercials after about 1978 were entirely animated, and would have a typical plot repeated with various differences. Fred eats cereal while Barney would want some as well; to that end, Barney would either disguise himself or distract Fred from his bowl of the cereal using various creative and increasingly outrageous means. While Fred was distracted, Barney would eat some Pebbles, but Fred would quickly discover Barney's lies, usually due to Barney's excitement at eating the cereal would cause his costume to be destroyed. Angry about his breakfast being stolen, he would normally exclaim, \"Barney! My Pebbles!\" Barney would then chuckle and deliver a comedic line while running away from the angry Fred, and Fred would give chase.\n\nA 1986 Christmas commercial had changed the theme in which Barney attempts to steal Fred's Pebbles by disguising himself as Santa Claus. However, his plot was foiled as the real Santa Claus was already inside the Flintstone house (and Fred serves him a bowl without question). Barney as the impostor Santa is immediately discovered by an annoyed Fred, until Santa reminds Fred that it was the season of sharing, to which Fred changes his mind, gives Barney the bowl and embraces him with a \"Happy Holidays, pal\" greeting.\n\nIn a similar Christmas commercial to the original one where Fred forgives Barney by urging of Santa, Barney tries to again steal the Pebbles by pretending to be Dickens' Ghost of Christmas Present (with both Pebbles and Bamm-Bamm as the Ghost of Christmas Past and Dino as the Ghost of Christmas Yet-To-Come) and saying that if Fred did not forfeit his cereal to Barney he would have a bad future. Fred agrees but soon realizes that Pebbles, Bamm-Bamm and Dino are helping Barney steal the cereal from him by the disguises and when shouting at Barney in anger Pebbles Flintstone reminds him that \"Santa is watching.\" This revelation instantly leads Fred to officially confirm to Barney that he can always have some Pebbles cereal when he wants to and no longer has to steal the cereal.\n\nIn 2009, Pebbles and Bamm-Bamm became more prominent in the commercials. The commercial launching Bamm-Bamm Berry Pebbles had a slight twist on the skit; when Fred said \"Barney! My Pebbles!\" Barney interrupted him and replied, \"My Bamm-Bamm Pebbles!\" happily as Bamm-Bamm carried his father away from the angry Fred. One of the most recent commercials featured Pebbles eating the Fruity Pebbles cereal along with Fred and Barney; Bamm-Bamm created a Barney-like distraction in the form of a giant fruit-loving robot, much to Pebbles' delight.\n\nFrom 2010 to 2012, the commercials for Pebbles cereal are produced (by the ad agency Burns Group) using stop motion animation with the tagline that the cereal \"rocks your whole mouth\". The former motif of Barney's cereal theft was removed to focus on the enjoyment of the cereal.\n\nWWE professional wrestler John Cena is an official endorser of Fruity Pebbles as the result of references to the cereal made by Dwayne 'The Rock' Johnson over the course of 2011, where Rock nicknamed Cena (a bowl of) Fruity Pebbles based on his bright shirts.\n\nFrom 2012 to 2014, Pebbles commercials changed to a scene where Bamm-Bamm and Pebbles perform kung fu and other martial arts.\n\nSince 2014, Pebbles commercials prompt viewers to take a side with either Team Cocoa or Team Fruity, and each individual advertisement includes a different child exemplifying their devoutness to one of the teams. Various celebrities, such as actress Bella Thorne, retired professional basketball player Shaquille O'Neal, and professional soccer player Alex Morgan have been chosen as mascots for either group, as well. This is in line with the decline of advertising specifically towards children and broadening the brand's appeal, though Fred, Barney and Bamm-Bamm continue to remain on the actual front of the packaging.\n\nThe box covers for the various Pebbles boxes have been illustrated by commercial artist Seymour Schachter [Seymour Schachter Illustration] since 2006.\n\nIn May 2010, a controversial commercial of Cocoa Pebbles led to a lawsuit by WWE wrestler Hulk Hogan. In spring of 2010, a commercial where Barney and Fred face off against a wrestler named Hulk Boulder aired on TV. The commercial ended with Hulk Boulder getting smashed to pieces by Bamm-Bamm after losing the wrestling match. Hulk Hogan sued Post, saying they stole his image to promote Pebbles and that his image had been damaged by the commercials. He used the name Hulk Boulder early in his career until his name was changed to sound more Irish. The suit was settled in September 2010 with a condition of not airing the commercial again.\n\n"}
{"id": "2071588", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2071588", "title": "Jan Axel Blomberg", "text": "Jan Axel Blomberg\n\nJan Axel Blomberg (born August 2, 1969) is a Norwegian heavy metal drummer, known professionally as Hellhammer. He is best known as the drummer of Mayhem, which he joined in 1988. In 1987 Blomberg formed the avant-garde black metal band Arcturus (under the name Mortem) with Steinar Sverd Johnsen, which broke up in April 2007 and reunited in 2011. He named himself after the Swiss extreme metal band Hellhammer. Praised as a talented musician, Blomberg is a three-time winner of the Spellemannprisen award.\n\nAs a child Blomberg's main interests were football (soccer) and wrestling. At first he had no interest in drums or drumming, but as music became more appealing to him he started to find the different instruments interesting, which eventually led to an interest in drums. His grandparents purchased him his first three drum kits; the first one was a four-piece jazz kit. With these he began learning how to play drums by playing along with albums he listened to. He was into heavy metal bands such as Iron Maiden, Metallica and Slayer, but also bands like Depeche Mode and Duran Duran. He then found out about Venom and Celtic Frost and eventually jazz, due to influences from a past drum teacher.\n\nBefore joining Mayhem, Jan Axel Blomberg played in various local bands, including the progressive metal band Tritonus, where he met Carl August Tidemann, the man who became the Arcturus and Winds guitarist. He did some live performances as well, and then was hired by Mayhem, who needed to replace Kjetil Manheim; Blomberg got the job and took the pseudonym Hellhammer.\n\nThe first recordings he did with Mayhem were two songs for a compilation album around 1989, with the songs \"Carnage\" and \"The Freezing Moon\". The first proper recording he did with Mayhem was \"Live in Leipzig\" in 1990. After that album, Mayhem had some trouble with the line up due to the suicide of the singer Dead and Necrobutcher's departure from the band. During this time he founded the band Arcturus together with Sverd in 1991, out of the remains of the band Mortem. They released the 7\" \"My Angel\" in 1991 and later the mini album \"Constellation\".\nIn 1995 he joined Immortal as a session drummer during their tour that year, he also agreed to play drums on their first official Video, \"Grim and Frostbitten Kingdoms\". He also briefly played for Emperor during this period. The recording and release of the Arcturus debut album \"Aspera Hiems Symfonia\" also happened this year.\n\nIn 1997 Jan Axel began working with Covenant, now known as The Kovenant, for the recording of their second album, \"Nexus Polaris\". That album was released in 1998 with a following European tour. During 1997 Arcturus also released another album, \"La Masquerade Infernale\".\n\nThe next year another album from The Kovenant was released, \"Animatronic\".\n\nDuring the year 2000 he recorded a mini album with his new band Winds, \"Of Entity And Mind\", which was released in May 2001. Winds also recorded a full-length album during spring 2001, \"Reflections of the I\".\n\nJan Axel is now a two-time Norwegian Grammy Awards winner, in 1998 for The Kovenant with \"Nexus Polaris\" and in 1999 for The Kovenant with \"Animatronic\". They claimed the prize for best hard rock album both years. In addition to these mentioned involvements, Jan Axel has also done numerous appearances as a guest or session musician on other releases.\n\nIn 2005, he was interviewed for the black metal mini-documentary that was included with the 2-disc DVD edition of \"\", in addition to other Mayhem members Necrobutcher (Jørn Stubberud) and Blasphemer (Rune Eriksen).\n\nIn 2009, Hellhammer appeared on Eyes of Noctum's album \"Inceptum\", where he played drums on six tracks. Eyes of Noctum are a black metal band from America featuring Weston Cage, son of Nicolas Cage as their lead singer.\n\nHellhammer played with keyboardist Andy Winter on one of his albums.\n\nAlso in 2010, Hellhammer played on Nidingr's album \"Wolf-Father\". In 2011 Arcturus reunited, Hellhammer included, and released \"Arcturian\" in 2015.\n\nHe has courted controversy in the past by making numerous racist comments and advocating violence against homosexuals. The black metal biography \"Lords of Chaos\" quotes him as saying, \"I'll put it this way, we don't like black people here. Black metal is for white people... I'm pretty convinced that there are differences between races as well as everything else. I think that like animals, some races are more ... you know, like a cat is much more intelligent than a bird or a cow, or even a dog, and I think that's also the case with different races.\" Blomberg said in a 2004 interview, \"I don't give a crap if the fans are white, black, green, yellow, or blue. For me music and politics don't go hand in hand.\" In the 2008 documentary film \"Until the Light Takes Us\" he says that he \"honor[s]\" Bård G. \"Faust\" Eithun for killing a \"fucking faggot\".\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2071595", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2071595", "title": "Battle of Fort Beauséjour", "text": "Battle of Fort Beauséjour\n\nThe Battle of Fort Beauséjour was fought on the Isthmus of Chignecto and marked the end of Father Le Loutre's War and\nthe opening of a British offensive in the Acadia/ Nova Scotia theatre of the Seven Years' War, which would eventually lead to the end of the French Empire in North America. The battle also reshaped the settlement patterns of the Atlantic region, and laid the groundwork for the modern province of New Brunswick.\n\nBeginning June 3, 1755, a British army under Lieutenant-Colonel Robert Monckton staged out of nearby Fort Lawrence, besieged the small French garrison at Fort Beauséjour with the goal of opening the Isthmus of Chignecto to British control. Control of the isthmus was crucial to the French because it was the only gateway between Quebec and Louisbourg during the winter months. After two weeks of siege, Louis Du Pont Duchambon de Vergor, the fort's commander, capitulated on June 16.\n\nTensions between the English and the French concerning the Acadian territory date to the seventeenth century, when France established its Acadian colony, which made them neighbors with the Puritans in New England. One of the main reasons for tensions was the question of jurisdiction, especially after the conquest of Acadia (1710). The isthmus of Chignecto was claimed by both the French and English whereas present day Nova Scotia was claimed by the English. The border differentiating the two was the Missaguash River; however, Acadians settled on both sides of the river. English claim to present day New Brunswick, and Northern Maine conflicted with small French presence and Acadian settlement in the area. Despite this, France's Louis XV encouraged Acadians to migrate to the land west of the Missaguash, and toward Fort Beauséjour.\n\nIn the 1750s, New Englanders were subject to drought, depression, high taxes and violence, all of which were further manipulated by Puritan and Protestant priests to garner support for an impending attack on the Catholic French. Furthermore, the close relationship between the French and the Mikmaq in the area angered the English. Acadians often married the Mikmaq people, leading to an ethnic accord and the creation of a unique local population. The English especially resented the Acadians for holding the best land and for the support they had from the Mikmaq, which prevented the establishment of a Protestant settlement. A major problem for the New Englanders was the close relationship between the Acadians, the French, and the Mikmaq.\n\nAbbé Le Loutre, the priest at Fort Beauséjour, created yet another source of tension as he was a representative of the French government, and therefore also allied to the Mikmaq. Le Loutre was loyal to France and to ensure the Acadians' allegiance, he threatened physical and spiritual damage to the Acadians if they were ever to enter English territory. In the face of religious and military excommunication, Acadians subdued any English support they may have had. Le Loutre also encouraged the Mikmaq to continue to align themselves against the British which they had done since King William's War (1689). The British put a bounty on Le Loutre.\n\nLieutenant-Colonel Lawrence and the Nova Scotia Council, along with many previous governors, had noted that on many occasions, the Acadians did not act neutral. Lawrence had evidence that at least some Acadians clearly favoured the French and hoped to force all of the Acadians to take an oath of allegiance to the English. The English in New England considered the Acadians traitors to Britain and as \"French bigots\", whom they hoped would be moved to Philadelphia. Lawrence had little regard for the unique lifestyle of the Acadians and their declaration of neutrality. Consequently, some historians have suggested the Lawrence was motivated by wanting to clear rich land for New Englanders. Others have noted that the deportation was primarily based on military reasons to remove any military threat Acadians posed in their alliance with the Mi'kmaq people and the Acadian support of Louisbourg.\n\nIn 1753, French troops from Canada marched south and seized and fortified the Ohio Valley. Britain protested the invasion and claimed Ohio for itself. On May 28, 1754, the French and Indian War began with the Battle of Jumonville Glen. French Officer Ensign de Jumonville and a third of his escort was killed by a British patrol led by George Washington. In retaliation the French and the Indians defeated the British at Fort Necessity. Washington lost a third of his force, and surrendered. Major General Edward Braddock's troops were defeated in the Battle of the Monongahela, and William Johnson's troops stopped the French advance at Lake George.\n\nIn Acadia, the primary British objective was to defeat the French fortifications at Beausejour and Louisbourg. The British saw the Acadians' allegiance to the French and the Wabanaki Confederacy as a military threat. Father Le Loutre's War had created the conditions for total war; British civilians had not been spared and, as Governor Charles Lawrence and the Nova Scotia Council saw it, Acadian civilians had provided intelligence, sanctuary, and logistical support while others had fought against the British.\n\nThroughout all of this, the British were nervous about a French and native invasion. As a result of native raids supported by the French some British settlers left their settlements (see Raid on Dartmouth (1751)). As a result of the military buildup at Chignecto, as part of the larger coordinated effort of the French and Indian War, the Governor of Massachusetts, William Shirley planned to take Fort Beausejour. Shirley's intelligence fermented the idea that the only way of saving Massachusetts was to attack Beauséjour.\n\nIn 1750, the Governor of New France Jacques-Pierre de la Jonquière heard that the English were building a fort in the region of Acadia. This fort later became Fort Lawrence. In response, the French decided to build Fort Beauséjour. The building of the fort began in 1751 and the plans created by a military engineer named Jacau de Fiedmont, who became a lieutenant in 1752. Fiedmont was responsible for the construction of the fort as well as for the plans of its defence. The fort was supposed to be strong enough to withstand bombardment, but Fort Beauséjour was not completely finished in 1755, for multiple reasons. To begin with, the fort's priest Abbé Le Loutre decided to reallocate manpower to an irrigation project. Also, Louis du Chambon de Vergor, the military commander at Fort Beauséjour in 1754, was more concerned with keeping the money for himself and was therefore not putting the resources to use strengthening the defences of Fort Beauséjour. Jacau de Fiedmont's journal, The Siege of Beauséjour in 1755: A Journal of the Attack on Beauséjour, puts emphasis on the point that if the fortifications would have been completed by the beginning of the siege, the Fort would have had higher resistance against bombardment which would have increased the morale of the French and Acadian defenders. Fiedmont continually insisted on working on the defences because of the fort's weaknesses, yet this work was never completed.\n\nAnother important figure at Fort Beauséjour at this time was Thomas Pichon, who having originally studied medicine in France, was the Commander's secretary at Fort Beauséjour. When Fort Beauséjour was affected by an epidemic of food poisoning, Pichon traveled to Fort Lawrence to discuss his medical notes with the English surgeon. The conclusion was that a poisonous herb was being used in food, instead of the parsley the French thought they were using. From this, Pichon became friendly and on good terms with the English at Fort Lawrence, visiting the fort regularly as he felt that people did not recognize his value at Fort Beauséjour. Pichon did not trust either Commander Vergor or the priest Abbé Le Loutre who, while underneath Vergor in the hierarchy, was the real figure in charge. Pichon eventually met the commander at Fort Lawrence, Captain George Scott, and was hired as a spy. Pichon stated that he agreed to become a spy because he believed that the British nation was superior to the French nation, but it is more likely that he wanted monetary gain and despised his superiors at Fort Beauséjour. For a year preceding the Siege of Beauséjour, Pichon gave crucial military information such as maps and battle plans to the English. (Some Acadians also worked as spies for the British.) After the events of 1755, Thomas Pichon began his new life as Thomas Tyrell, a subject of King George II. Later in his life Pichon came to regret his treason against the French.\n\nRecruitment for an attack on Beauséjour was done by Colonel Shirley of Massachusetts. He was able to gather 2000 men, who would be led by Colonel Winslow, Lieutenant-Colonel George Scott, and Robert Monckton. The expedition left Boston on 22 May 1755, and arrived at Fort Lawrence on 2 June, where an additional 400 men joined the expedition. The English expedition then started moving towards Fort Beauséjour on 4 June. In the meantime, Vergor received news of the impending attack, and started to put defence measures into place. He first issued a call to arms to the surrounding Acadian population, who answered it begrudgingly. The Acadians asked their governor to threaten them, in order to be protected from execution for treason from the English. Fort Beauséjour had a maximum of a thousand men to defend it. At the same time, Vergor sent letters to Québec, Louisbourg, as well as settlements on the St. John river and on the Islands of St. John for help. He also sent a letter to Fort Gaspereau, which was located the closest to Fort Beauséjour. While Vergor was technically in charge of the fort, it was Jacau de Fiedmont who coordinated all of the defence plans and preparations for the attack. He was well aware that the only way Beauséjour would survive the siege would be by strengthening its defences. He was therefore insistent that the extra work be done before the English arrived. Other preparations included destroying roads and bridges.\n\nThe first confrontation between the French settlers and soldiers of Fort Beauséjour and the English took place on 4 June at the Missaguash River. A total of 400 French, Acadian, and Indian men, faced off against British soldiers in battle formation. It was clear from the start that the Acadians were not good fighters and lacked fighting spirit and motivation, which would have given the English a strong sense of Fort Beauséjour's weaknesses, lack of ability, and deficiency of courage. After the confrontation, it was said that the English suffered a loss of eighty men, but this was most likely a fabricated number to boost the already low morale of the Acadians, as their aim was bad. The English started rebuilding the bridge over the Missaguash River which Vergor had destroyed under fire, and suffered no casualties.\n\nThe night of 4 June, Vergor continued to put into place defence mechanisms, this time setting all of the surrounding buildings, shops, and homes on fire. This did nothing to improve the worsening morale of the Acadians, as these were their homes. Vergor, Abbé le Loutre, and Fiedmont were doing anything they could to improve the morale of the Acadians and of the soldiers. Vergor emphasizes the coming help from Louisbourg. Fiedmont also worried about the level of motivation of the Acadians, as he desperately needed them to work in order to continue to fortify the defenses. The few men he found who were willing to work were not nearly enough.\n\nOn 7 and 8 June, Native allies of the French had captured an English officer called Hay, and brought him to Fort Beauséjour as a prisoner, as well as an English deserter. The English officer made clear to the officers at Fort Beauséjour that the English had a very strong force and heavy artillery. On 9 June, intense rain gave the Acadians yet another perfect excuse not to work on strengthening the defences, but no such excuse was used by the English, who continued to build their trenches and prepare to start the siege. On 11 June, Fiedmont tried again to motivate the Acadians to finish the defences but no to avail. On 12 June, an officer by the name of Vannes left with 180 men to attack Lieutenant Colonel Scott, but came back later that night without ever having fired a single shot. The entire situation definitely did not help raise the morale of his fellow officers and soldiers. The English started bombing Beauséjour on the 13 June, with artillery that was much stronger than anything Beauséjour had. The men at Fort Beauséjour were rapidly losing what little morale they had left, and many Acadians were simply deserting.\n\nOn the 14 June, Vergor received news that the port of Louisbourg was being blocked by the English, and could therefore not send help. As the general morale was already at its ultimate low, Vergor decided to keep this news secret. However, his valet, with whose wife Vergor was having an affair, overheard and spread the news. The next day, all of the Acadians and soldiers had completely lost any hope and morale they may have had left, and started pushing for capitulation. In fact, upon hearing this news, eighty men deserted Beauséjour. Desertion was quickly becoming such a problem that orders had to be put in place in order to forbid the men from speaking out about deserting.\n\nMany Acadians who hadn't participated in the fighting were becoming increasingly worried that they would be captured and sentenced to death by the English. Beauséjour continued to be bombed until the 16 June, when one bomb in particular hit the officer's mess, killing a few French officers as well as the English prisoner Hay, who was the only Englishman to lose his life in the siege. The white flag of surrender was then raised, and the capitulation signed on 16 June 1755. The written capitulation included clauses which protected the Acadians, dictated what the English could take in terms of material goods from Beauséjour, and stated that the French could not bear arms in America for the next six months.\n\nFort Beauséjour was taken possession by the English at 7:30 p.m. in the evening of 16 June. The English offered Fort Gaspereau the same conditions, which were immediately accepted and signed. Immediately after the Battle of Fort Beauséjour (1755), Robert Monckton sent a detachment under the command of John Rous to take Fort Menagoueche. De Boishebert knew that he faced a superior force so he burned the fort and retreated up the river to undertake guerrilla warfare. The destruction of Fort Menagoueche left Louisbourg as the last French fort in Acadia. Boishebert made his first strike in the Battle of Petitcodiac.\n\nThe capture of Fort Beauséjour was a deciding factor in relations between the British Empire and the Acadian population of Nova Scotia. For decades Britain had been struggling to extract an oath of allegiance from the Acadians, who maintained that the \"conventions of 1730\" had secured their neutrality in all future Anglo-French conflicts. Such refusal, combined with French colonists' repeated attempts to incite rebellion among their fellow French-speakers, left British officials—especially Governor Charles Lawrence—increasingly wary of an attack from within.\n\nThe battle of Fort Beauséjour sealed the Acadians' fate both militarily and politically. With the fort's capture the French Catholics lost their only overland escape route to the mainland. Having also conceded their guns to Lawrence, the colonials were left \"at the mercy of their British overlords.\" The British, meanwhile, discovered that several Acadians had participated in the defense of Beauséjour. Lawrence had enough evidence of some Acadians continuing to breach neutrality that he and the Council decided to solve the \"festering Acadian problem\" once and for all. On 31 July 1755, he ordered the forcible removal the Acadian population from the colony.\n\nHistorians have debated the Empire's probable plans for Acadia prior to the taking of Beauséjour. By refusing to swear an oath of allegiance, Acadians had long resisted assimilation into a British Protestant mainstream. Lawrence's letters reveal a marked hostility toward the Acadians by 1754, at which point he was planning with Massachusetts Governor William Shirley to draw British battalions into Nova Scotia. As with many previous governors, Lawrence and Shirley had often discussed the possibility of removing the Acadians, but, before 1755, lacked the means for such measures. If not for General Edward Braddock's humiliating defeat that same year, Lawrence might have extended British control well beyond Acadia, eliminating the perceived need for mass deportation.\n\nFort Beauséjour was renamed Fort Cumberland by the British. It quickly became a major hub of Acadian expulsion, but saw little military activity during the rest of the Seven Years' War. The fort would face another siege with the 1776 Battle of Fort Cumberland during the American Revolution.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2071604", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2071604", "title": "Pinkster", "text": "Pinkster\n\nPinkster is a spring festival, taking place in late May or early June. The name is a variation of the Dutch word \"Pinksteren\", meaning \"Pentecost\". \"Pinkster\" in English almost always refers to the festivals held by African Americans (both free and slave) in the Northeastern United States, particularly in the early 19th century. To the Dutch, Pinkster was a religious holiday, a chance to rest, gather and celebrate religious services like baptisms and confirmations. For their African slaves, Pinkster was a time free from work and a chance to gather and catch up with family and friends.\nPentecost is a Christian feast falling on the seventh Sunday after Easter, in remembrance of the descent of the Holy Spirit, in the guise of flames, upon the apostles at the \"Feast of the Harvest\" (Ex. 23:16), also known as Whitsunday, enabling the apostles to spread the news of Christ in all languages, (glossolalia or the \"gift of tongues\") (Acts 2).\nPinksteren was also a celebration of the change of the seasons and of spring renewal. Various customs are intended to invoke the growth and fertility of fields and pastures. These include, for example, setting up Pentecost trees (\"pinksterkrone\"), that have the same origin as the maypoles. In many places inhabitants decorate village fountains with flowers and birch branches to which they attach colorful ribbons and chains of colored eggs.\n\nDutch colonists and settlers in present-day New York State and New Jersey brought the celebration of Pinkster to North America in the 17th century. However, by the 19th century, Pinkster had evolved into a primarily African-American holiday, celebrated by slaves and free blacks, and liberally seasoned with African culture and traditions.\n\nIn contrast to the Southern plantations, the great majority of Northern farm families owned few slaves. With the less hospitable climate and less hospitable natives, farms in the north were much smaller; therefore, (except in the larger cities, once they grew) Africans were fewer and farther apart. Family members were sold down the road to other families. Pinkster was a chance for the Africans to meet up and catch up with family and friends, to taste some temporary independence, and a chance to make and spend a little money of their own. It also provided the opportunity to share, express and pass on African culture and tradition, especially to those African Americans born in North America.\n\nIn New York, families traveled from the outlying areas into New York City or Albany, which remained a largely Dutch city into the early 19th century. There they could meet up with the significantly larger population of slaves and African freemen. By the mid-18th century, celebrations in New York and Brooklyn attracted very large gatherings. African Americans sold berries, herbs, sassafras bark, beverages, and oysters, and they used the money they earned at the Pinkster festival.\n\nPinkster was celebrated over several days. The Dutch observed Pinkster by attending church services and holding important church functions such as baptisms and confirmations. Neighbors, freed from work, visited with one another while the children painted eggs in vibrant colours and indulged in sweets like gingerbread.\n\nAfricans and Dutch enjoyed drinking, games, dance and music. Sellers decorated their stalls and carts with greenery and flowers, especially azaleas, which were associated with Pentecost, and Dutch sellers would hire skillful African dancers to attract attention to their stalls. Their dances were combinations of African and European steps and elements, creating new dances that were precursors to modern tap and break dancing.\nThe slaves used the opportunity of Pinkster to take jabs at whites, mimicking and ridiculing, very subtly of course, some of white culture and habits through drama, speeches, storytelling and song.\n\n\"'Pinkster Day' was in Africa a religious day, partly pagan and partly Christian like our Christmas day. Many of the old Colored people, then in Albany, were born in Africa and would dance their wild dances and sing in their native language.\" In Albany, \"'Pinkster' festivities took place usually in May, and lasted an entire week. It was…the Carnival of the African Race, in which they indulged in unrestrained merriment and revelry.\" \"The dancing music was peculiar. The main instrument was a sort of 'kettle-drum,' a wooden article called an eel-pot, with a sheepskin drawn tightly over one end.\"\n\nDuring the late 18th and early 19th centuries, the festival was presided over by a \"King\", who was himself a slave. The crowning of the Pinkster King recalled elections of leaders in some African cultures of Northeastern North America, investing respected members of the slave community with symbolic power over the whole community and honor within the slave community. This kind of celebration, inverting rank, recalls West African and European traditions like Boxing Day and Mardi Gras. This tradition has its roots in the Pentecost celebrations in the Kingdom of Kongo under the reign of Afonso I of Kongo.\n\nOne well-known \"king\" in Albany was \"Charley of Pinkster Hill\", the \"King of the Blacks.\" Charley was born in Angola, said to be of royal blood, and became the servant of Volkert P. Douw, a wealthy merchant. \"King Charles\" dressed in the costume of a British Brigadier, a long scarlet coat with gold lace and yellow buckskin accessories, and a three-cornered hat. Charley and his followers, decorated with \"pinkster blummies\" (azaleas), led a parade up Albany's State Street. Following the parade \"the negroes made merry with games and feasting, all paying homage to the king, who was held in awe and reverence as an African prince. In the evening there was a grand dance, led by Charles and some sable beauty.\"\n\nPinkster as an African-American celebration reached its height in New York between 1790 and 1810. Before the holiday, temporary shelters were built, frequently based on styles imitating African shelters. The festival could continue for three to four days, including sports, dance, and music. The highlight was the Toto or the Guinea dance, performed to the beating of drums.\n\nWhile Enslaved Africans no doubt looked forward to Pinkster for the break from their daily drudgery and the socializing, it does not minimize the horrors of their Enslavement.\n\nSome time between 1811 and 1813 despite or perhaps because of its popularity, the city of Albany, New York passed a city ordinance banning the drinking and dancing associated with Pinkster. Whites were concerned that the congregation and socialization of large groups of African Americans could provide them with the opportunity to plot or plan revolution. Some historians believe the council wanted to eliminate Pinkster because it didn't appeal to the burgeoning middle class, pointing to the fact that the law was eventually overturned, which would contradict the motivation of preventing uprisings. This law was only repealed in 2011.\n\nAlbert James Williams Myers, professor of Black Studies at the State University of New York at New Paltz remarks, \"I think that political officials in Albany and elsewhere within New York felt that since Pinkster was a gathering for Africans that perhaps it could lead to a revolt and so I think it was really fear of the possibility that something like this could happen that we have to bring it to an end. So for all intents and purposes Pinkster is a memory, at least the way it was celebrated along the Hudson before 1811.\" \n\nSince the 1970s, efforts have been made to resurrect Pinkster in New York, such as at Philipsburg Manor House, an 18th-century living history museum located in Sleepy Hollow, New York, once the central location for milling and mercantile operations in the Hudson Valley. Every Spring, Philipsburg Manor recreates an authentic celebration of Pinkster in North America, combining both Dutch and African traditions. In Albany Pinksterfest has been incorporated into the city's annual Tulip Festival, celebrated on Mother's Day.\n\nPinkster is still recognized as an official holiday in The Netherlands, though many of the early types of celebrations are no longer in fashion, rendering the long weekend more just a basic holiday for all.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2071605", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2071605", "title": "Heaven and Hell (Black Sabbath song)", "text": "Heaven and Hell (Black Sabbath song)\n\n\"Heaven and Hell\" is the title track of Black Sabbath's ninth studio album. The music was written mainly by guitarist Tony Iommi, but – as with almost all Sabbath albums – credit is given to the entire band. The lyrics were written entirely by then newcomer Ronnie James Dio.\n\nThe song has been performed by several bands of which Iommi and Dio were members including Black Sabbath, Dio, and Heaven & Hell.\n\nKeyboardist Geoff Nicholls, who was a session keyboard player during the recording of the album, is said to have been responsible for this song's bassline. The bassline closely resembles that of \"Mainline Riders\" by Quartz, of which Nicholls was a former member. Geezer Butler was not available during initial recording of the song in late 1979.\n\nPerformed live by Black Sabbath, Dio and Heaven & Hell, the song was often stretched out with an extended guitar solo, audience participation, ad-libbed lyrics, or additional lyrics regarding angelic and demonic apparitions and personal judgment.\n\nMany later Sabbath lineups included this song in live sets, during which it was variously sung by Ian Gillan, Glenn Hughes, Ray Gillen, and Tony Martin. An official live recording, featuring Martin on vocals, featured on 1995's \"Cross Purposes Live\". Judas Priest frontman Rob Halford sang the song with Sabbath on 14 and 15 November 1992, when he filled in at two concerts.\n\n\"Heaven and Hell\" was ranked No. 11 in Martin Popoff's book \"The Top 500 Heavy Metal Songs of All Time\". Popoff compiled the book by asking thousands of fans, musicians, and journalists to nominated their favourite metal songs. Almost 18,000 individual votes were tallied and entered into a database from which the final rankings were derived.\n\nThe song was named the 81st best hard rock song of all time by VH1. It was ranked the eighth best Black Sabbath song by Rock - Das Gesamtwerk der größten Rock-Acts im Check.\n\nThe song's intro was used during \"The Freddie Mercury Tribute Concert\" to introduce Tony Iommi.\n\nIn an interview for VH1's \"Heavy: The Story of Metal\", Dio stated that the song is about the ability of each human being to choose between doing good and doing evil; essentially, that each person has \"heaven and hell\" inside themselves. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "2071614", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2071614", "title": "Texas's 18th congressional district", "text": "Texas's 18th congressional district\n\nTexas's 18th congressional district of the United States House of Representatives includes much of inner city Houston and the surrounding area. It has been the Downtown Houston district since 1972. The current Representative from the 18th district is Sheila Jackson Lee.\n\nIt was held by Barbara Jordan, the first black woman elected to Congress from the South (in 1972), who was praised by many for her powerful presence in that body, and in particular, for her oratory skills.\n\nSince the district was moved to Houston in 1972, it has voted for a Democrat in every presidential election. The district gave George McGovern 69% in 1972 and Walter Mondale 72% in 1984.\n\nIn the TV series \"The West Wing\", Texas's 18th congressional district was represented by fictional Democratic presidential candidate Matt Santos.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2071615", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2071615", "title": "Ruby Falls", "text": "Ruby Falls\n\nRuby Falls is a series of underground cascading waterfalls totaling in Lookout Mountain, near Chattanooga, Tennessee, in the United States. \n\nAbout 200 to 240 million years ago (in the Carboniferous Period, at the end of the Paleozoic Era), the eastern Tennessee area was covered with a shallow sea, the sediments of which eventually formed limestone rock. About 200 million years ago, this area was uplifted, forming Lookout Mountain and nearby ridges. Slightly acidic groundwater running through cracks in the limestone slowly dissolved the relatively soluble rock, causing narrow cracks to widen into passages. This process, called chemical weathering, formed various caves to form inside Lookout Mountain.\n\nAmong them were Lookout Mountain Cave, which opened to the outside, and Ruby Falls Cave, which did not. The two were unconnected until developers joined them to create Lookout Mountain Caverns. Ruby Falls Cave is the upper of the two and contains a variety of geological formations and curiosities that Lookout Mountain Cave does not have.\n\nRuby Falls Cave features many of the more well-known types of cave formations (or speleothems) including stalactites and stalagmites, columns, drapery, and flowstone. The limestone in which the cave is formed is still relatively horizontal, just as it was deposited below sea level. \n\nThe Falls are located at the end of the main passage of Ruby Falls Cave, in a large vertical shaft. The stream, 1,120 feet underground, is fed both by rainwater and natural springs. It collects in a pool in the cave floor and then continues through the mountain until finally joining the Tennessee River at the base of Lookout Mountain.\n\nRuby Falls Cave, unlike Lookout Mountain Cave, had no natural openings and could not be entered until the 20th century; it therefore does not have the various artifacts which are often associated with caves in the southeastern United States. In 1905 the natural entrance to Lookout Mountain Cave was closed during the construction of a railway tunnel. In the 1920s a chemist and cave enthusiast named Leo Lambert thought that he could re-open the cave as a tourist attraction, and formed a company to do so. He planned to make an opening farther up the mountain than the original opening and transport tourists to the cave via an elevator. For this purpose, his company purchased land on the side of Lookout Mountain above Lookout Mountain Cave and in 1928 began to drill through the limestone. In doing so, they discovered a small passageway about 18 inches high and four feet wide. Exploring this opening, Lambert discovered the formerly hidden Ruby Falls Cave and its waterfall. On his next trip to visit the cave, Lambert took his wife Ruby, and told her that he would name the falls after her.\n\nAfter the discovery of the cave housing Ruby Falls the tunnelers kept digging to locate the original cave they were searching for, the Lookout Mountain caverns, which they reached 1,120 feet underground. On December 30, 1929 the Lookout Mountain caverns were open to the public, and by the following year in June the Ruby Falls cave was expanded and opened as well. By 1935 the lower of the two caves was blocked off due to Ruby Falls being the far more popular of the two caves.\n\nIn 1954, the pathway around the basin was cut in order to allow tourists a better view of the falls. This began the tour-related quip regarding not drinking the falls' water. Though pure and thus safe to drink, it has large concentrations of magnesium from the strata of the mountain, which makes it a natural laxative.\n\nIn 1975, the secondary exit from the falls to the base of the mountain was cut. This was to comply with recreation regulations in Tennessee. The secondary exit is used in the event that the main shaft elevator fails. This secondary exit was used for the popular Ruby Falls Haunted Cavern until 2017 when the event was renamed Dread Hollow and was moved to a new location. The haunted attraction is open to the public from late September, through October.\n\nIn April 2007, the National Speleological Society (NSS) published \"Caves of Chattanooga\" by Larry E. Matthews. Chapter 3, \"Ruby Falls Cave\", covers the history of Ruby Falls Cave from its discovery in 1928 through 2007 (includes 23 illustrations). Chapter 1, \"Lookout Mountain Cave\", covers the cave Leo Lambert was drilling for when he accidentally discovered Ruby Falls Cave.\n\nLambert decided to open both caves to the public, although Lookout Mountain Cave was closed in 1935 since it was not very popular with tourists, who were much more impressed with the upper cave. Public tours began in 1930. Electric lights were installed in the cave, making it one of the first commercial caves to be so outfitted. Motorists travelling on I-75 in the 1970s and 1980s were subjected to dozens - maybe hundreds - of billboards along their route with the words \"SEE RUBY FALLS\" beginning hundreds of miles north and south of the falls itself. Ruby Falls remains a staple of Chattanooga tourism, operating daily. Ruby Falls is owned by the Steiner family of Chattanooga, Tennessee.\n\nRuby Falls and the larger Lookout Mountain Caverns complex have been designated a National Historic Landmark. It is often associated with the nearby Rock City attraction, which lies atop Lookout Mountain.\n\nJohnny Cash and Roy Orbison co-wrote a song with the title \"See Ruby Fall\" in the mid to late 1960s, a reference to the barn roof advertising slogan \"See Ruby Falls\" ubiquitous throughout the southern United States in the mid 20th Century.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2071617", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2071617", "title": "Glider (EP)", "text": "Glider (EP)\n\nGlider is an EP by My Bloody Valentine, released in April 1990 by Creation Records. The EP was also the group's first release on the Sire Records label in the USA. Containing the lead single \"Soon\", which featured Shields' \"glide guitar\" technique, the EP peaked at number 2 on the UK Indie Chart and the band toured in summer 1990 to support its release. \n\nAn alternate mix of \"Soon\" was later included on the \"Loveless\" album.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2071629", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2071629", "title": "Southern Provinces", "text": "Southern Provinces\n\nThe Southern Provinces or Moroccan Sahara are the terms used by the Moroccan government for Western Sahara. These two official Moroccan denominations explicitly include all of Western Sahara, which spans three of country's 12 top-level administrative regions (although only one region lies entirely within Western Sahara). A frequent use of the term \"Southern Provinces\" is found for example in Moroccan state television (weather forecasts, displayed maps on the news, government statements, etc.).\n\nThe Moroccan government controls and administers roughly four-fifths of Western Sahara (the part west of the Moroccan Wall), while the rest makes up the Free Zone held by the Sahrawi Arab Democratic Republic) and all the oceanic coasts of Western Sahara. Government and private companies exploit coastal areas for fishing and the land areas for phosphate mining. The Polisario Front controls the remaining fifth, which is isolated from the ocean, mostly empty of any population, dry, and unfit for conventional urbanization or any basic economic activity.\n\nThe two thirds of Western Sahara that are controlled by Morocco are treated by the government as normal Moroccan territory. The government conducts various economic and social development programs and includes these \"Southern Provinces\" in the national budget of government funding, national sport competitions, education programs, and national parliamentary elections. Following the Green March and the Madrid Accords signed with Spain and Mauritania in 1975, Morocco took control of Saguia el-Hamra, and the northern part of Río de Oro, while Mauritania took control of the remaining part of Río de Oro, renamed as Tiris al-Gharbiyya.\n\nA locally based Saharawi national liberation movement, the Polisario Front launched a guerrilla war, with the crucial financial and logistical backing of Algeria and Libya, aiming to win independence of the territory under the \"Sahrawi Arab Democratic Republic\" (SADR). Following bloody clashes with the Polisario troops (SPLA) and deteriorating ties with Algeria, Mauritania pulled out in 1979 and gave up its share in the Western Sahara in order to avoid further complicated conflicts with the Sahrawi Republic, Algeria, and Morocco. Morocco then seized the opportunity and took control of the remaining part of Río de Oro as well, which had been recognized by the Moroccan regime as Mauritanian a few years earlier.\n\nSince a United Nations-sponsored ceasefire agreement in 1991, about two thirds of the territory is administered by Morocco, including all the seacoasts, due to the construction of the Moroccan Wall. The Polisario Front controls most of the remainder, which is almost unpopulated. Polisario's army is considered incapable of covering the vast one-third of Western Sahara, east of the Moroccan military berm. Moreover, most of Polisario's army is thought to be concentrated in the Tinduf area inside Algeria, safe from the long arm of Morocco's superior artillery and air force.\n\nThe ceasefire line corresponds to the route of the Moroccan Wall (the military berm). Both sides claim the territory of Western Sahara in its entirety. The Sahrawi Arab Democratic Republic had been recognized by 84 nations, and is a full member of the African Union, but not of the UN. Moroccan territorial integrity is implicitly recognized by the Arab League with strong reservations from Algeria and Syria.\n\nAdministratively, Morocco divided the territory under its control into administrative units (\"wilayas\"). Flags and coats of arms were created for the three wilayas of Boujdour, Smara and Laayoune. There were further changes in the territories in 1983, with the area becoming four wilayas through the addition of Dakhla. In 1990 Wadi al-Dhahab (Río de Oro) was added.\n\nMorocco has assigned a special satellite TV channel for the \"Southern Provinces\", called Laayoun TV.\n\nFollowing the 1975 Green March, the Moroccan state has sponsored settlement schemes enticing thousands of Moroccans to move into the Moroccan-occupied part of Western Sahara (80% of the territory). By 2015, it was estimated that Moroccan settlers made up at least two thirds of the 500,000 inhabitants. In addition to guaranteeing a right of return for the Sahrawi refugees, the Sahrawi government in exile has indicated a willingness to offer Sahrawi citizenship to Moroccan settlers and their descendants in a future independent state.\n"}
{"id": "2071644", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2071644", "title": "I-beam", "text": "I-beam\n\nAn I-beam, also known as H-beam (for universal column, UC), w-beam (for \"wide flange\"), universal beam (UB), rolled steel joist (RSJ), or double-T (especially in Polish, Bulgarian, Spanish, Italian and German), is a beam with an or -shaped cross-section. The horizontal elements of the are flanges, and the vertical element is the \"web\". I-beams are usually made of structural steel and are used in construction and civil engineering.\n\nThe web resists shear forces, while the flanges resist most of the bending moment experienced by the beam. The Euler-Bernoulli beam equation shows that the I-shaped section is a very efficient form for carrying both bending and shear loads in the plane of the web. On the other hand, the cross-section has a reduced capacity in the transverse direction, and is also inefficient in carrying torsion, for which hollow structural sections are often preferred.\n\nThe method of producing an I-beam, as rolled from a single piece of steel, was patented by Alphonse Halbou of the company \"Forges de la Providence\" in 1849.\n\nBethlehem Steel was a leading supplier of rolled structural steel of various cross-sections in American bridge and skyscraper work of the mid-twentieth century. Today, rolled cross-sections have been partially displaced in such work by fabricated cross-sections.\n\nThere are two standard I-beam forms:\n\nI-beams are commonly made of structural steel but may also be formed from aluminium or other materials. A common type of I-beam is the \"rolled steel joist\" (RSJ)—sometimes incorrectly rendered as \"reinforced steel joist\". British and European standards also specify Universal Beams (UBs) and Universal Columns (UCs). These sections have parallel flanges, as opposed to the varying thickness of RSJ flanges which are seldom now rolled in the UK. Parallel flanges are easier to connect to and do away with the need for tapering washers. UCs have equal or near-equal width and depth and are more suited to being oriented vertically to carry axial load such as columns in multi-storey construction, while UBs are significantly deeper than they are wide are more suited to carrying bending load such as beam elements in floors.\n\nI-joists—I-beams engineered from wood with fiberboard and/or laminated veneer lumber—are also becoming increasingly popular in construction, especially residential, as they are both lighter and less prone to warping than solid wooden joists. However, there has been some concern as to their rapid loss of strength in a fire if unprotected.\n\nI-beams are widely used in the construction industry and are available in a variety of standard sizes. Tables are available to allow easy selection of a suitable steel I-beam size for a given applied load. I-beams may be used both as beams and as columns.\n\nI-beams may be used both on their own, or acting compositely with another material, typically concrete. Design may be governed by any of the following criteria:\n\nA beam under bending sees high stresses along the axial fibers that are farthest from the neutral axis. To prevent failure, most of the material in the beam must be located in these regions. Comparatively little material is needed in the area close to the neutral axis. This observation is the basis of the I-beam cross-section; the neutral axis runs along the center of the web which can be relatively thin and most of the material can be concentrated in the flanges.\n\nThe ideal beam is the one with the least cross-sectional area (and hence requiring the least material) needed to achieve a given section modulus. Since the section modulus depends on the value of the moment of inertia, an efficient beam must have most of its material located as far from the neutral axis as possible. The farther a given amount of material is from the neutral axis, the larger is the section modulus and hence a larger bending moment can be resisted.\n\nWhen designing a symmetric I-beam to resist stresses due to bending the usual starting point is the required section modulus. If the allowable stress is formula_1 and the maximum expected bending moment is formula_2, then the required section modulus is given by\nwhere formula_4 is the moment of inertia of the beam cross-section and formula_5 is the distance of the top of the beam from the neutral axis (see beam theory for more details).\n\nFor a beam of cross-sectional area formula_6 and height formula_7, the ideal cross-section would have half the area at a distance formula_8 above the cross-section and the other half at a distance formula_8 below the cross-section. For this cross-section\nHowever, these ideal conditions can never be achieved because material is needed in the web for physical reasons, including to resist buckling. For wide-flange beams, the section modulus is approximately\nwhich is superior to that achieved by rectangular beams and circular beams.\n\nThough I-beams are excellent for unidirectional bending in a plane parallel to the web, they do not perform as well in bidirectional bending. These beams also show little resistance to twisting and undergo sectional warping under torsional loading. For torsion dominated problems, box beams and other types of stiff sections are used in preference to the I-beam.\n\nIn the United States, the most commonly mentioned I-beam is the wide-flange (W) shape. These beams have flanges in which the planes are nearly parallel. Other I-beams include American Standard (designated S) shapes, in which flange surfaces are not parallel, and H-piles (designated HP), which are typically used as pile foundations. Wide-flange shapes are available in grade ASTM A992, which has generally replaced the older ASTM grades A572 and A36. Ranges of yield strength:\n\nLike most steel products, I-beams often contain some recycled content.\n\nThe American Institute of Steel Construction (AISC) publishes the Steel Construction Manual for designing structures of various shapes. It documents the common approaches, Allowable Stress Design (ASD) and Load and Resistance Factor Design (LRFD), (starting with 13th ed.) to create such designs.\n\nThe following standards define the shape and tolerances of I-beam steel sections:\n\n\n\n\nCellular beams are the modern version of the traditional \"castellated beam\" which results in a beam approximately 40–60% deeper than its parent section. The exact finished depth, cell diameter and cell spacing are flexible. A cellular beam is up to 1.5 times stronger than its parent section and is therefore utilized to create efficient large span constructions.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2071649", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2071649", "title": "Lawrence Samuels", "text": "Lawrence Samuels\n\nLawrence 'Law Dogg' Samuels (born May 1, 1970) is an arena football coach and former wide receiver/linebacker. He played his college football at the Livingston University, and was an AFL wide receiver/linebacker from 1994 to 2010. He received both his Bachelor of Science degree in industrial technology and Master of Science degree in education from The University of West Alabama. He was head coach of the Tampa Bay Storm of the Arena Football League (AFL) from 2014 to 2016.\n\nBorn in Mobile, Alabama, Samuels attended Shaw High School in Mobile. Samuels was a basketball player in high school, but was lured to the football field after seeing most of his childhood friends join the Shaw team.\n\nSamuels made his AFL debut in 1994 with the Tampa Bay Storm, racking up 247 receptions through the 2000 season for over 3,120 yards in his first tenure with the Storm.\n\nIn 2001, Samuels left the Storm and played the season with the New Jersey Gladiators, catching 65 passes (a career high at the time) for 742 yards, just short of his 844-yard career high receiving season he recorded the year before with Tampa Bay.\n\nAfter a single season in New Jersey, Samuels returned to Tampa, where he finished his playing career. From 2003-2007, Samuels notched 1,000+ yards receiving in 4 of 5 seasons, including back-to-back-to-back 1,100 yard+ seasons in 2005, 2006, and 2007. Was named MVP and Ironman of ArenaBowl XVII.\n\nIn 2007, after 5 losses to begin the season, Samuels was again named to the AFL's All-Ironman Team after leading the Storm to a #3 seed in the playoffs. 100+ catches, 1,000+ yards, and 100+ touchdowns also helped Samuels earn the honor.\n\nOn June 15, 2008, Samuels became the first receiver in AFL history to record 1,000 career receptions. \n\nOn August 10, 2013, Samuels was inducted into the AFL Hall of Fame.\n\nIn 2002 and 2003, he was an assistant coach and wide receivers coach at Central High School in Brooksville, Florida.\n\nHe was the offensive coordinator and receivers coach for the Wharton High School Wildcats during the 2005 and 2006 seasons.\n\nIn 2011, Samuels was named the offensive coordinator of the Storm, working with one of his former coaches, Dave Ewart.\n\nEwart was fired in early August 2013, and on September 5, 2013, Samuels was promoted to head coach of the Storm. Samuels and the Storm mutually agreed to part ways in August 2016.\n\nSamuels's brother, Chris Samuels, was a six-time Pro-Bowler in the National Football League (NFL). He and his wife, Kelli, have two daughters.\n\n"}
{"id": "2071657", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2071657", "title": "Michael David Irving Gass", "text": "Michael David Irving Gass\n\nSir Michael David Irving Gass (; 24 April 1916 – 27 February 1983) was the penultimate High Commissioner for the Western Pacific, Colonial Secretary of Hong Kong from 1965 until 1969, and the acting Governor of Hong Kong during the Hong Kong 1967 Leftist riots.\n\nBorn in Wareham, Gass was the eldest son of George Irving Gass and Norah Elizabeth Mustard. Gass was educated at King's School, Bruton, and then later obtained degrees at both Queens' College, Cambridge and Oxford University. After university he entered the Colonial Administration Service. His first appointment was to the Gold Coast in 1939. During World War II Gass entered the Army and achieved the rank of Major, he served in East Africa and Burma with the Gold Coast Regiment of the Royal West African Frontier Force (1939–1945); he was twice mentioned in despatches.\n\nAfter the war he returned to the Service, spending three years in Ashanti and two in Ghana before being posted in 1958 to the West Pacific High Commission as Chief Secretary.\n\nFrom then until his retirement in 1973 he remained in the Far East, notably in Hong Kong where he was Colonial Secretary and Acting Governor intermittently between 1965 and 1969. In the colonial secretary's tenure, he and Ronald Holmes and Jack Cater and other government officials had to deal with riots in 1967 against British colonial rule. During the disorder, Governor Sir David Trench happened to be absent from Hong Kong and all of a sudden there was no one fully in command of the government. As a result, Gass became acting-Governor, and therefore it was Holmes and Gass who were in charge in the crisis. During the riots, he took a tough stance against the activists, to effectively control the situation, but has also become one of the main targets of attack leftist camp vocal opposition.\n\nHe became High Commissioner for the Western Pacific on 12 February 1969.\n\nWhen he returned to England, Gass served as a Member of Somerset County Council (1977–1981).\n\nGass was appointed Commander of the Order of St Michael and St George in the 1960 Birthday Honours and was promoted to Knight Commander of Order of St Michael and St George in the 1969 New Year Honours.\n\nGass married Elizabeth Acland-Hood in 1975. They had no children.\n"}
{"id": "2071664", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2071664", "title": "Cary Stayner", "text": "Cary Stayner\n\nCary Anthony Stayner (born August 13, 1961) is an American serial killer and the older brother of kidnapping victim Steven Stayner. He was convicted of the murders of four women between February and July 1999: Carole Sund, her teenage daughter Juli Sund and their teenage traveling companion Silvina Pelosso; and Yosemite Institute naturalist Joie Ruth Armstrong. The murders occurred in Mariposa County, California, near Yosemite National Park. Stayner was sentenced to death for the four murders, and is still on death row at San Quentin Penitentiary in California.\n\nCary Stayner was born and raised in Merced, California. His younger brother, Steven Stayner, was kidnapped by child molester Kenneth Parnell in 1972, when Cary was 11, and held captive for more than seven years before escaping and being reunited with his family. Stayner later said that he felt neglected while his parents grieved over the loss of Steven.\n\nWhen Steven escaped from Parnell and returned home in 1980, he received massive media attention. A true crime book and TV movie, both titled \"I Know My First Name is Steven\", were made about the ordeal. Steven died in a motorcycle accident in 1989. The following year Stayner's uncle Jesse, with whom he was living at the time, was murdered. Stayner later claimed that his uncle molested him at the same period as when Steven was kidnapped.\n\nStayner is reported to have attempted suicide in 1991, and was arrested in 1997 for possession of marijuana and methamphetamine, although these charges were eventually dropped.\n\nIn 1997, Stayner was hired as a handyman at the Cedar Lodge motel in El Portal, California, just outside the Highway 140 entrance to Yosemite National Park. Between February and July 1999, he murdered two women and two teenagers: 42-year-old Carole Sund, her daughter, 15-year-old Juli Sund, Juli’s friend, 16-year-old Argentine exchange student Silvina Pelosso, and Yosemite Institute employee Joie Ruth Armstrong, a 26-year old naturalist. \n\nThe first two victims, Sund and Pelosso, were found in the trunk of the charred remains of Sund's Pontiac rental car. The bodies were burned beyond recognition and were identified using dental records. A note was sent to police with a hand-drawn map indicating the location of the third victim, Sund's daughter Juli. The top of the note read, \"We had fun with this one.\" Investigators went to the location depicted on the map and found the remains of Juli, whose throat had been cut.\n\nDetectives began interviewing employees of the Cedar Lodge motel where the first three victims had been staying just before their deaths. One of those employees was Stayner, but he was not considered a suspect at that point because he had no criminal history and remained calm during the police interview.\n\nWhen the decapitated body of Joie Ruth Armstrong was found, eyewitnesses said they saw a blue 1979 International Scout parked outside the cabin where she was staying. Detectives traced this vehicle to Stayner, which led to him becoming the prime suspect in the case. FBI agents John Boles and Jeff Rinek found Stayner staying at the Laguna del Sol nudist resort in Wilton, where he was arrested and taken to Sacramento for questioning. During his interrogation, Stayner shocked the agents when he confessed not only to Armstrong’s decapitation, but to the murders of Pelosso and the Sunds, and the sending of the map for finding Juli Sund's body as well. His vehicle yielded evidence proving his link to Armstrong.\n\nStayner claimed after his arrest that he had fantasized about murdering women since he was seven years old, long before the abduction of his brother.\n\nStayner pleaded not guilty by reason of insanity. His lawyers claimed that the Stayner family had a history of sexual abuse and mental illness, manifesting itself not only in the murders, but also his obsessive-compulsive disorder and his request to be provided with child pornography in return for his confession. Dr. Jose Arturo Silva testified that Stayner had obsessive-compulsive disorder, mild autism, and paraphilia. He was nevertheless found sane and convicted of four counts of first degree murder by a jury on August 27, 2002.\n\nIn 2002, during the penalty phase of his trial, Stayner was sentenced to death and thereafter entered housing in the Adjustment Center on death row at San Quentin Penitentiary in California. Stayner remains on death row as of September 2019 though there have been no executions in California since a 2006 court ruling finding flaws in the administration of capital punishment in the state.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2071666", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2071666", "title": "Riemann's differential equation", "text": "Riemann's differential equation\n\nIn mathematics, Riemann's differential equation, named after Bernhard Riemann, is a generalization of the hypergeometric differential equation, allowing the regular singular points (RSPs) to occur anywhere on the Riemann sphere, rather than merely at 0, 1, and formula_1. The equation is also known as the Papperitz equation. \n\nThe hypergeometric differential equation is a second-order linear differential equation which has three regular singular points, 0, 1 and formula_1. That equation admits two linearly independent solutions; near a singularity formula_3, the solutions take the form formula_4, where formula_5 is a local variable, and formula_6 is locally holomorphic with formula_7. The real number formula_8 is called the exponent of the solution at formula_3. Let \"α\", \"β\" and \"γ\" be the exponents of one solution at 0, 1 and formula_1 respectively; and let \"α&apos;\", \"β&apos;\" and \"γ&apos;\" be those of the other. Then\nBy applying suitable changes of variable, it is possible to transform the hypergeometric equation: Applying Möbius transformations will adjust the positions of the RSPs, while other transformations (see below) can change the exponents at the RSPs, subject to the exponents adding up to 1.\n\nThe differential equation is given by\n\nThe regular singular points are , , and . The exponents of the solutions at these RSPs are, respectively, , , and . As before, the exponents are subject to the condition\n\nThe solutions are denoted by the \"Riemann P-symbol\" (also known as the \"Papperitz symbol\")\n\nThe standard hypergeometric function may be expressed as\n\nThe P-functions obey a number of identities; one of them allows a general P-function to be expressed in terms of the hypergeometric function. It is\n\nIn other words, one may write the solutions in terms of the hypergeometric function as\n\nThe full complement of Kummer's 24 solutions may be obtained in this way; see the article hypergeometric differential equation for a treatment of Kummer's solutions.\n\nThe P-function possesses a simple symmetry under the action of fractional linear transformations known as Möbius transformations (that are the conformal remappings of the Riemann sphere), or equivalently, under the action of the group . Given arbitrary complex numbers , , , such that , define the quantities\n\nand\n\nthen one has the simple relation\n\nexpressing the symmetry.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2071671", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2071671", "title": "Whitford (provincial electoral district)", "text": "Whitford (provincial electoral district)\n\nWhitford was a provincial electoral district in Alberta, Canada. The district was created in 1913 out of the southwest part of the Pakan district and the north part of Vegreville.\n\nIn 1940 the district was split between Redwater, Willingdon and Vegreville.\n\nThe district was named after the northwest town of Whitford, Alberta.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2071672", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2071672", "title": "Sabu Dastagir", "text": "Sabu Dastagir\n\nSabu Dastagir (born Selar Sabu; 27 January 1924 – 2 December 1963) was an Indian film actor who later gained United States citizenship. He was credited under the name Sabu and is primarily known for his work in films during the 1930s–1940s in Britain and America. He was inducted into the Hollywood Walk of Fame in 1960.\n\nBorn in 1924 in Karapur, Mysore, Kingdom of Mysore, then a Princely State of British India, and raised as a Muslim, Sabu was the son of an Indian \"mahout\" (elephant rider). While most reference books list his full name as \"Sabu Dastagir\" (which was the name he used legally), research by journalist Philip Leibfried suggests that his full name was in fact Selar Sabu. His brother Shaik Dastagir (whose name Leibfried suggests was the source of confusion surrounding Sabu's full name) managed his career. \n\nIn 1960, Shaik was shot to death at his home in a botched robbery. The perpetrator, 18-year-old Jimmy E. Shields, was a former employee at the brothers' furniture store. He was convicted of involuntary manslaughter and sentenced to 1 to 10 years in prison.\n\nWhen he was 13, Sabu was discovered by documentary film-maker Robert Flaherty, who cast him in the role of an elephant driver in the 1937 British film \"Elephant Boy\". This was adapted from \"Toomai of the Elephants\", a story by Rudyard Kipling. In 1938 producer Alexander Korda commissioned A. E. W. Mason to write \"The Drum\" as a starring vehicle for the young actor.\n\nSabu is perhaps best known for his role as Abu in the 1940 British film \"The Thief of Bagdad\". Director Michael Powell said that Sabu had a \"wonderful grace\" about him. In 1942 Sabu played another role based on a Kipling story, namely Mowgli in \"Jungle Book\" directed by Zoltan Korda, which was shot entirely in California. He starred alongside Maria Montez and Jon Hall in three films for Universal Pictures: \"Arabian Nights\" (1942), \"White Savage\" (1943) and \"Cobra Woman\" (1944).\n\nAfter becoming an American citizen in 1944, Sabu joined the United States Army Air Forces and served as a tail gunner and ball turret gunner on B-24 Liberators. He flew several dozen missions with the 370th Bombardment Squadron of the 307th Bomb Group in the Pacific, and was awarded the Distinguished Flying Cross for his valor and bravery.\n\nHis career declined after World War II as he was unable to secure equivalent roles in Hollywood that British films had offered. He occasionally did gain significant parts, such as his supporting role in the British film \"Black Narcissus\" (1947). Through most of the 1950s he starred in largely unsuccessful European films. In 1952, he starred in the Harringay Circus with an elephant act. \n\nHe was considered for the role of Birju in Mehboob Khan's 1957 film \"Mother India\" which would have marked his debut in Hindi films but he was denied a work permit and the role ended up going to Sunil Dutt. Sabu never got to appear in a film made in his native country.\n\nIn 1963, he made a comeback to Hollywood with a supporting role in \"Rampage\" opposite Robert Mitchum. He played another supporting role alongside Brian Keith in the Disney film \"A Tiger Walks\". This would turn out to be his final role as he died three months before the film was released.\n\nOn 19 October 1948, Sabu married little-known actress Marilyn Cooper (whose only film part, as Princess Tara in \"Song of India\" in 1949, was not credited), with whom he had two children. Their marriage lasted until his death.\nTheir son Paul Sabu established the rock band Sabu in the 1980s, and their daughter Jasmine Sabu was an animal trainer on various films; she died in 2001.\n\nSabu was the subject of a paternity suit. A dancer whom he had appeared with in \"Black Narcissus\", Brenda Marian Julier, alleged that he was the father of her daughter Michaela, born in 1948. At the time of the trial, in October 1950, Julier had married a Frank Ernst. The jury found in favor of Sabu by a vote of 9 to 3. However, in March 1952, an appeals court reversed the verdict and ordered a new trial. It found that the trial judge's jury instructions were erroneous and prejudicial, and that Sabu's attorney had effectively put Julier on trial.\n\nThe day the 2nd trial was scheduled to begin, in July 1953, Sabu settled the case without admitting paternity. He agreed to defray Julier's costs, set up a trust fund, and pay monthly support until the child reached 21. At that time, Ernst stated his intent to adopt the girl.\n\nIn November 1950, a fire destroyed the 2nd story of his Los Angeles home. Arthur E. Wall and Andre Perez were arrested for arson shortly afterward; Perez pleaded guilty in July 1951. He revealed that he was asked to set the fire by Wall, Sabu's friend, who told him the actor needed the insurance money. Sabu's insurer, Northwestern Mutual, had originally paid out his claim, but sued him in November 1952 after learning about the arson.\n\nOn 2 December 1963, Sabu died suddenly in Chatsworth, California, of a heart attack, a month before his 40th birthday. He is interred at the Forest Lawn – Hollywood Hills Cemetery. His wife said in a television interview that two days before his death, during a routine medical check, his doctor told him: \"If all my patients were as healthy as you, I would be out of a job\".\n\nNotes\nBibliography\n\n"}
{"id": "2071688", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2071688", "title": "Let's Do It, Let's Fall in Love", "text": "Let's Do It, Let's Fall in Love\n\n\"Let's Do It, Let's Fall in Love\" (also known as \"Let's Do It (Let's Fall in Love)\" or simply \"Let's Do It\") is a popular song written in 1928 by Cole Porter. It was introduced in Porter's first Broadway success, the musical \"Paris\" (1928) by French chanteuse Irène Bordoni for whom Porter had written the musical as a starring vehicle.\n\nBordoni's husband and \"Paris\" producer Ray Goetz convinced Porter to give Broadway another try with this show. The song was later used in the English production of \"Wake Up and Dream\" (1929) and was used as the title theme music in the 1933 Hollywood movie, \"Grand Slam\" starring Loretta Young and Paul Lukas. In 1960 it was also included in the film version of Cole Porter's \"Can-Can\".\n\nThe first of Porter's \"list songs\", it features a string of suggestive and droll comparisons and examples, preposterous pairings and double entendres, dropping famous names and events, drawing from highbrow and popular culture. Porter was a strong admirer of the Savoy Operas of Gilbert & Sullivan, many of whose stage works featured similar comic list songs.\n\nThe first refrain covers human ethnic groups, the second refrain birds, the third refrain marine life, the fourth refrain insects and centipedes, and the fifth refrain non-human mammals.\n\nOne commentator saw the phrase \"Let's do \"it\"\" as a euphemistic reference to a proposition for sexual intercourse. According to this argument, \"Let's do it\" was a pioneer pop song to declare openly \"sex is fun\". According to it, several suggestive lines include a couplet from verse 4: \"Moths in your rugs do it, What's the use of moth-balls?\" and \"Folks in Siam do it, Think of Siamese twins\" (verse 1) and \"Why ask if shad do it? Waiter, bring me shad roe\" (verse 3) and \"Sweet guinea-pigs do it, Buy a couple and wait\" (verse 5).\n\nThe nature of the song is such that it has lent itself over the years to the regular addition of contemporary or topical stanzas. For example, in 1955 the lines \"Even Liberace, we assume, does it,\" \"Ernest Hemingway could -\"just\"- do it\" and many more were added by Noël Coward in his Las Vegas cabaret performance of the song, in which he replaced all of Porter's lyrics with his own.\n\nThe song has been revived many times since 1928, although usually with only a limited portion of the original lyrics. A punk rock version performed by Joan Jett and Paul Westerberg was used as the theme song in the 1995 movie \"Tank Girl\", and later in a more classical version in a musical revue number within the film. In the revue, the song is at first performed by stage actress Ann Magnuson, but is taken over by star Lori Petty after she places duct tape over Magnuson's mouth. It was originally recorded with Joan Jett and Greg Graffin, but Atlantic Records did not want them using Graffin so they deleted his voice and recorded Westerberg's. Joan Jett and Greg Graffin's version of \"Let's Do It\" was eventually released in 2000 on the compilation CD \"Laguna Tunes\" (Blackheart Records).\n\nThe White Stripes' song \"Forever for Her (Is Over for Me)\", from their 2005 album \"Get Behind Me Satan\", borrows lyrics and themes from the song. Brazilian singers Chico Buarque and Elza Soares recorded a Portuguese adaptation by Carlos Rennó, \"Façamos - Vamos Amar\", on Buarque's 2002 album \"Duetos\". Scottish singer Shirley Manson of Garbage incorporated lyrics from the song into Garbage's performance of their song \"Vow\" at Bizarre festival in 1996.\n\nThe song is featured prominently in Woody Allen's 2011 film \"Midnight in Paris\". Actor Yves Heck played Cole Porter in the movie.\n\nIn Porter's publication from 1928, the opening lines for the chorus carried three derogatory racial references: Chinks, Japs, and Laps.\n\nThe original was:\nChinks do it, Japs do it,\nup in Lapland little Laps do it...\nThe original line can be heard in several early recordings of the song, such as a recording made by the Dorsey Brothers & their Orchestra (featuring a vocal by a young Bing Crosby), Rudy Vallée, Paul Whiteman And His Orchestra, all in 1928, and a version of the song by the singer and well-known Broadway star Mary Martin (with Ray Sinatra's orchestra), recorded in 1944. Another example is Billie Holiday, in 1941. Peggy Lee with the Benny Goodman orchestra recorded a version in 1941 with these lyrics.\n\nPorter changed the opening to the refrain: \"Birds do it, bees do it\" when he realized that the line was offensive.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2071689", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2071689", "title": "Texas's 19th congressional district", "text": "Texas's 19th congressional district\n\nTexas's 19th congressional district of the United States House of Representatives includes the upper midwestern portion of the state of Texas The district includes portions of the State from Lubbock to Abilene. The current Representative from the 19th district is Republican Jodey Arrington.\n\nThe border runs along the western boundary with New Mexico, and runs along county borders to include far reaching cities. The area is predominantly rural, with the exceptions of Abilene and Lubbock, and includes many state parks, ranches, and farms.\n\nThis is one of the most conservative districts in Texas and the nation. It has not supported a Democratic presidential candidate since 1964. Republicans have held the seat since 1985. In the last three decades, a Democrat has only won 40 percent of the vote in this district twice, in 1984 and 2004.\n\nMuch of this region continued to elect conservative Democrats to local offices and the Texas Legislature until 1994. Since the mid-1990s, however, Republicans have dominated every level of government. There are virtually no elected Democrats left above the county level, and Republicans usually win most races by 70 percent or more of the vote.\n\nThe district voted 77% for George W. Bush in 2004 and 71% for John McCain in 2008.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2071699", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2071699", "title": "Blowhole (anatomy)", "text": "Blowhole (anatomy)\n\nIn cetology, the study of whales and other cetaceans, a blowhole is the hole at the top of the head through which the animal breathes air. In baleen whales, these are in pairs. It is homologous with the nostril of other mammals, and evolved via gradual movement of the nostrils to the top of the head. As whales reach the water surface to breathe, they forcefully expel air through the blowhole. The exhalation is released into the comparably lower-pressure, colder atmosphere, and any water vapor condenses. This spray, known as the \"blow\", is often visible from far away as a white splash, which can also be caused by water resting on top of the blowhole.\n\nAir sacs just below the blowhole allow whales to produce sounds for communication and, for toothed whales, echolocation. These air sacs are filled with air, which is then released again to produce sound in a similar fashion to releasing air from a balloon. When whales dive under water their nasal plug covers the nasal passage to the blowhole. The muscles controlling the nasal plug are relaxed during this time, but when the whale comes up for air these muscles contract and allow for the blowhole to be opened and the process of exhalation and inhalation to occur.\n\nBaleen whales have two blowholes positioned in a V-shape while toothed whales have only one blowhole. The blowhole of a sperm whale, a toothed whale, is located left of centre in the frontal area of the snout, and is actually its left nostril, while the right nostril lacks an opening to the surface and its nasal passage is otherwise well developed.\n\nThe trachea only connects to the blowhole, and the animal cannot breathe through its mouth. Because of this, there is no risk of food accidentally ending up in the animal's lungs, so whales have no gag reflex.\n\n"}
{"id": "2071706", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2071706", "title": "Robin and Marian", "text": "Robin and Marian\n\nRobin and Marian is a 1976 British-American romance and adventure film from Columbia Pictures, shot in Panavision and Technicolor, that was directed by Richard Lester and written by James Goldman, based on the legend of Robin Hood. The film stars Sean Connery as Robin Hood, Audrey Hepburn as Lady Marian, Nicol Williamson as Little John, Robert Shaw as the Sheriff of Nottingham, and Richard Harris as Richard the Lionheart. It also features comedian Ronnie Barker in a rare film role as Friar Tuck. \"Robin and Marian\" was filmed in Zamora, Spain and in Artajona, Urbasa, Quinto Real and Orgi, all small medieval villages in Navarre. It marked Hepburn's return to the screen after an eight-year absence.\n\nLester made \"Robin and Marian\" amid a series of period pieces, including \"The Three Musketeers\" (1973). The original music score was composed by John Barry. The film originally was titled \"The Death of Robin Hood\" but was changed by Columbia Pictures to be more marketable, and perhaps give equal billing to Hepburn.\n\nAn aging Robin Hood is a trusted captain fighting for King Richard the Lionheart in France, the Crusades long over. Richard orders him to take a castle that is rumoured to hold a gold statue. Discovering that it is defended by a solitary, one-eyed old man who is sheltering women and children, and being told that the statue is worthless stone, Robin and his right-hand man, Little John, refuse to attack. King Richard, angry at their insubordination, orders the pair's execution and the castle attacked, but is wounded with an arrow by the old man. Richard has the helpless residents massacred, with the exception of the old man, because Richard likes his eye. The King offers to let Robin beg for his life. When Robin refuses, Richard draws his sword, but having been wounded, lacks the strength to strike him and falls to the floor. Robin helps the dying king and, moved by his loyalty, Richard frees Robin and Little John.\n\nRobin and Little John return to England and are reunited with old friends Will Scarlet and Friar Tuck in Sherwood Forest. He hears that his exploits have become legendary. When Robin casually inquires about Maid Marian, they tell him she is still alive and where she lives. When he goes to see her, she finds him as impossible as ever, while he discovers that she has become an abbess. He learns that his old nemesis, the Sheriff of Nottingham, has ordered her arrest in response to the King's order to expel senior leaders of the Roman Catholic Church from England.\n\nWhen the Sheriff comes to arrest Marian, Marian wants no trouble, but Robin rescues her against her will, striking Sir Ranulf, the Sheriff's arrogant guest, in the process. He also later rescues the nuns, who have been locked in the Sheriff's castle. Ignoring the Sheriff's warnings, Sir Ranulf pursues Robin into the forest. His men are ambushed and a number killed by arrows; Sir Ranulf is left unharmed only because Robin orders him spared. When the news of Robin's return spreads, old comrades and new recruits rally once more to him. Sir Ranulf asks King John for 200 soldiers to deal with Robin.\n\nThe Sheriff waits in the fields beyond the Forest, knowing Robin will be unable to resist indefinitely the temptation to attack, despite the open terrain, which is unfavourable for Robin's untrained and greatly outnumbered men against the King's trained soldiers. When Robin does, he proposes that he and the Sheriff fight by single combat to settle the issue, despite the protests of Sir Ranulf. Although Robin appears to be the stronger at the start of the fight, it becomes clear that the Sheriff is more than a match for him. Eventually the Sheriff has the wounded Robin at his mercy and demands his surrender. Refusing, Robin manages to kill the Sheriff with the last of his strength. Led by Sir Ranulf, the soldiers attack and scatter Robin's ragtag band, many of whom are captured or killed. Will Scarlet and Friar Tuck are captured but Little John manages to kill Sir Ranulf. John and Marian take Robin to her abbey, where she keeps her medicine.\n\nRobin believes he will recover to win future battles. Little John stands guard outside while Marian tends to Robin's wounds. Marian prepares a draught of medicine and drinks some herself before giving it to Robin. He drinks it and notes that the pain has gone away and his legs have gone numb. Realizing that she has poisoned them both, he cries out for Little John. However, he comes to understand that Marian has acted out of love because he would never be the same man again. She tells him:\n\n\"I love you. More than all you know. I love you more than children. More than fields I've planted with my hands. I love you more than morning prayers or peace or food to eat. I love you more than sunlight, more than flesh or joy, or one more day. I love you ... more than God.\"\n\nRobin and Marian try to touch each other's hands as Little John crashes through the door and weeps at Robin's bedside. Robin asks Little John for his bow and shoots an arrow from his deathbed through the open window, and tells him to bury them both where it lands. The arrow soars out of the window into the distance. Apples are seen decaying on the windowsill.\n\nThe film generally received positive reviews by critics on its release. It currently holds a 73% positive rating on Rotten Tomatoes, based on 33 reviews.\n\nRoger Ebert was positive towards Connery and Hepburn as Robin and Marian, although he was uncertain about \"history repeating itself\" in regard to the plot. According to Ebert, \"What prevents the movie from really losing its way, though, are the performances of Sean Connery and Audrey Hepburn in the title roles. No matter what the director and the writer may think, Connery and Hepburn seem to have arrived at a tacit understanding between themselves about their characters. They glow. They really do seem in love. And they project as marvelously complex, fond, tender people; the passage of 20 years has given them grace and wisdom.\" He also approved of the film's cinematography in comparison to early films of the genre, noting that, \"Lester photographs them with more restraint than he might have used 10 years ago. His active camera is replaced here by a visual tempo more suited to bittersweet nostalgia. He photographs Sherwood Forest and its characters with a nice off-hand realism that's better than the pretentious solemnity we sometimes get in historical pictures\".\n\nThe film is recognized by American Film Institute in these lists:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2071715", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2071715", "title": "Paul Petzoldt", "text": "Paul Petzoldt\n\nPaul Kiesow Petzoldt (January 16, 1908 – October 6, 1999) was one of America's most accomplished mountaineers. He is perhaps best known for establishing the National Outdoor Leadership School in 1965. Paul made his first ascent of the Grand Teton in 1924 at the age of 16, becoming the youngest person at the time to have done so. In 1938 Paul Petzoldt was a member of the first American team to attempt a climb on K2. For the climb he did not use assisted oxygen; he learned to use rhythmic breathing. He and Dan Bryant, from New Zealand, were the first climbers ever to traverse the Matterhorn twice in one day.\n\nUnfortunately, Petzoldt was forced to leave India under a cloud in 1939, following his direct part in the killing of fellow American, Dr. Julian P. M. Johnson, the writer famous for descriptions of the Sant Mat spiritual path, based in the Punjab at Beas. Johnson's books include \"The Path of the Masters,\" and \"With a Great Master in India.\"\n\nDuring World War II Petzoldt served in the U.S. Army's 10th Mountain Division fighting on the Italian Front.\n\nPetzoldt's other accomplishments in the outdoors are also considered major advances among wilderness enthusiasts. Before the establishment of NOLS, he had a hand in creating a Colorado addition to the Outward Bound program as well as the first guide service in the Tetons. Noted in his introduction to \"The New Wilderness Handbook\", his experience in NOLS, Outward Bound and love of the wilderness, evolved into the Wilderness Education Association. WEA courses, certification and knowledge are still helping many advocates of the environment learn ways to have low-impact adventures in the environment.\nAmong the early instructors in Petzoldt's Outward Bound programs was Vince Lee.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2071717", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2071717", "title": "Snapper Carr", "text": "Snapper Carr\n\nLucas \"Snapper\" Carr is a fictional character appearing in American comic books published by DC Comics. The character was created by Gardner Fox (writer) and Mike Sekowsky (penciller), and made his first appearance in \"The Brave and the Bold\" in February 1960. From 1960 to 1969, Snapper Carr appeared as a supporting character to the Justice League of America, a superhero team. The character occasionally appeared in comics featuring the Justice League from 1969 to 1989, when the \"Invasion!\" limited-series comic book gave him superpowers. \n\nSnapper was associated with a new superhero team, The Blasters, in various comics until 1993, when he lost his powers and became a main character in the \"Hourman\" comic book. After the cancellation of \"Hourman\" in April 2001, he became a main character in the \"Young Justice\" comic book beginning in December 2001. \"Young Justice\" was cancelled in May 2003, and he became associated with the governmental organization Checkmate, a role revealed when the character played a small but important role in the 2007-2008 limited series comic book \"52 Aftermath: The Four Horsemen\". The character made major appearances in \"Final Crisis: Resist\" in December 2008 and \"Justice League of America 80-Page Giant\" in November 2009.\n\nIn 1959, after the successful revival of Flash and Green Lantern, DC Comics editor Julius Schwartz decided to update the Justice Society of America using a new group of heroes under the name Justice League of America (JLA). According to Schwartz, DC Comics Executive Editor Whitney Ellsworth not only insisted that a teenager be a member of the Justice League but also that this teenager be hip. Ellsworth wanted the new superhero team to tap into the emerging and economically powerful youth culture, and specifically told Schwartz to have the character emulate the hip-talking, leather jacket-wearing, finger-snapping \"Kookie\" Kookson character on the popular television series \"77 Sunset Strip\". The teenager had to be a \"civilian\" (i.e., non-superhero). A hip version of an existing teenage superhero, such as Robin, Supergirl, or existing teenage \"civilian\" such as Jimmy Olsen was ruled out, as these characters would tend to over-emphasize the hero with whom they were already associated. To preserve the \"team\" nature of the new comic book, therefore, a \"neutral\" civilian character had to be created.\n\nEllsworth specifically coined the name \"Snapper Carr\", the character's first name indicating his habit of snapping his fingers when excited or making a point. Snapper's given name of Lucas was not revealed until 1978.\n\nSnapper Carr made his first appearance, alongside the first appearance of the JLA, in the comic book \"The Brave and the Bold\" #28, released December 29, 1959, but with a cover date of February–March 1960.\n\nSnapper Carr was not intended to be a superhero, but rather a supporting character for the Justice League. Because of the critical role he played in the League's first adventure, he was formally made an \"honorary member\" of the JLA, and was often referred to as the team's mascot. At the end of the first adventure, Snapper received a belt with a signal device embedded in the buckle, with which he can summon members of the JLA. In keeping with his \"hip\" character, Justice League members later rebuilt a hot rod car so that it could fly and whisk Snapper to JLA meetings.\n\nAs written by Gardner Fox, Snapper Carr had the most distinctive personality of all the members of the Justice League. Fox's writing focused on action, not character, and the dialogue he gave his superheroes was so bland as to be interchangeable among the characters. Snapper not only had the most distinctive means of speaking (with his extreme hipster slang), but he had the most clearly written and individualist character of all the recurring characters in the comic book. Within a few years, Fox got rid of the hipster slang and had Snapper speak in a more mainstream way, which had the side-effect of giving the character no discernible personality.\n\nSnapper's parents are identified in \"The Brave and the Bold\" #28 as Mr. and Mrs. John Carr. Two years later, readers learn in 1961 that he has a younger brother, Jimmy Carr. Snapper Carr was given a girlfriend, Midge, in \"Justice League of America\" Vol. 1 #7 (November 1961). Snapper was also shown in 1974 to have a sister, Janet. In 1998, readers learned that Snapper had an uncle, Simon Carr, who played a major role in the founding of the Justice League. A year later, Snapper mentioned in \"Hourman\" #1 that he has a brother nicknamed \"Spitter\" Carr (for his habit of spitting). (It is unclear if Spitter and Jimmy are the same person, or if Snapper was merely being sarcastic.)\n\nIn \"The Brave and the Bold\" #28, the Justice League of America faces the threat of Starro, a giant alien starfish with mind-control powers. Snapper Carr, who is spreading lime on his family's lawn, is unaffected by Starro when the alien takes mental control of the population of Happy Harbor, Rhode Island. Members of the Justice League realize that Starro can be incapacitated using lime, and the alien is defeated. Comic book historian Ramzi Fawaz has argued that this adventure is a critical one in the development of the modern comic book. Not only does it mark the beginning of the superhero who identifies as a defender of the world rather than a nation, it marks the first time that a world-destroying (rather than nation-destroying) threat was depicted in comics. Snapper Carr's inclusion was also important. Whereas pre-World War II social norms had emphasized family connections as the most important relationships in a young person's life, the Justice League offered a new kind of relationship, based solely on \"ethical commitments to the world\", which could supplant the family. Snapper also represented a new egalitarian future, one in which youth could be accepted alongside older adults rather than patronized or excluded. For example, Snapper's first year as an honorary member of the JLA coincided with his senior year of high school. In \"Man, Thy Name Is—Brother!\", three League members donate their time to help Snapper write a paper about brotherhood.\n\nIn the 1985–1986 crossover \"Crisis on Infinite Earths\", DC Comics rebooted its fictional universe and the back-stories of nearly all its characters. This required retellings of many of origin stories, including that of the Justice League of America. The first adventures of the Justice League, and that of Snapper Carr, were retold in the 12-issue maxi-series comic book \"JLA: Year One\". The first several issues of the maxi-series involved the alien race known as the Appellaxians, which had first appeared in \"Justice League of America\" Vol. 1 #9 (February 1962). In the fictional character chronology, this story occurs before and shortly after \"The Brave and the Bold\" #28, but in the publication history of the character it is printed in 1998. In the story, the Appellaxians conspired with a new criminal organization, Locus, to take over Earth. Snapper's uncle, Simon Carr, made his first appearance in the second issue, and in the third issue readers learned that Simon is the contact person for an ultra-wealthy individual (later revealed to be Oliver Queen) who wishes to financially support the Justice League in its mission. Simon introduced the League to college student and genius inventor Ted Kord (who is also the superhero Blue Beetle), who provided them with some technology, and to his nephew, Snapper. The adventure with Starro took place between \"JLA: Year One\" issues #3 and #4, and Snapper played a critical role in issue #9 in alerting the League to the Appellaxian attack on Earth. In issue #10, he deduced that his uncle had been possessed by the Appellaxian leader, and had the League defeat Simon and then free him from alien control.\n\nAnother Snapper Carr story appeared in 2001, but in the fictional character chronology, the story occurred some time during his honorary membership in the Justice League. This time, Snapper assists the Atom in building equipment and running software programs to fight the villain Chronos.\n\nGardner Fox left \"Justice League of America\" with issue #65, and Dennis O'Neil took over scripting duties. By this time, the Snapper Carr character was immensely unpopular. O'Neil felt Snapper was outdated and no longer fit with the Justice League. He considered two options: Letting the character disappear without explanation, or writing the character out of the book. O'Neil decided on the latter, even if it seemed abrupt.\n\nBy the time the story \"Snapper Carr—Super Traitor!\" appeared, the Snapper Carr character had not been present in any Justice League of America stories for some time. The story begins with Snapper shown to be upset by the fact that people are interested in him only because of what he knows about the Justice League, and not because he is a hero in his own right. He is confronted by John Dough, \"the most average man in America\", who wants to rid the world of superheroes. Snapper helps Dough kidnap Batman, and addresses a public rally condemning superheroes. The crowd riots, and the Justice League members (except for new member Black Canary) lose control of their powers. After a fake Batman attacks people attending a congressional hearing into causes of the riot, Snapper resigns his honorary membership in the Justice League. When the League returns to its Secret Sanctuary (located in a seaside cave near Happy Harbor), they're attacked by Dough—who turns out to be the Joker. Joker reveals that Snapper told \"John Dough\" the location of the League's Secret Sanctuary. The League captures the Joker, but Snapper has departed.\n\nAlthough the Secret Sanctuary had been compromised seven times before, the JLA now decided to abandon its \"Secret Sanctuary\" and build a new headquarters, the Justice League Satellite. It occupied this orbital hideout in February 1970.\n\n\"Snapper Carr—Super Traitor!\" was the last Joker story for four years, and the last time the Silver Age Joker was seen in print. A much darker, more Gothic Joker later appeared in \"Batman\" #251, and is the first appearance of the modern Joker. This story also arguably marked the end of the Silver Age version of the Justice League of America as well. Although Snapper Carr was, in later comic book appearances, shown to have made money by writing a memoir about his time with the League, he was also depicted as feeling immense shame for having been tricked by the Joker into betraying the team.\n\nSnapper's role in the Justice League was a varied one. In many early adventures, he often (and unintentionally) provided information or scientific clues which enabled the League to solve mysteries or defeat enemies. For example, in the team's third published adventure, \"Case of the Stolen Super Powers!\", several important zoo specimens have gone missing. Snapper mentions a few facts about long-lived creatures that he's incorporating into a term paper. Members of the JLA realize that the missing animals were all long-lived. This enables them to deduce the plans of Professor Ivo (who is trying to create an immortality serum) and defeat his android, Amazo.\n\nUsually, Snapper was depicted on \"monitor duty\", using the JLA computers and satellites to monitor national and world events for trouble to which the heroes could respond. Later, he was depicted as being a journalist, reporting on the League's activities and providing the \"official\" record of their exploits, as well as overseeing the JLA's mail handling and processing and responding to fans and admirers. Throughout the comic book series \"JLA: Year One\", Snapper was also depicted as a mechanic and I.T. worker, overseeing the installation of a great deal of technology in the Secret Sanctuary and maintaining the hideout's machinery.\n\nSnapper Carr was almost \"universally disliked\" by readers during the character's 1960 to 1969 run. Comic book historian Michael Eury, however, has argued that many readers later came to appreciate what the character brought to the comic book.\n\nIn the character's fictional biography, Snapper Carr made a number of appearances between 1969 and 1989.\n\nHis first appearance came in 1972, a story in which the JLA meets with the Justice Society of America. Snapper is invited to attend, but is too ashamed by his betrayal of the League to do so.\n\nHis second appearance came in 1974, when \"Justice League of America\" writer Len Wein decided to have Snapper and his family get kidnapped by a mentally ill man calling himself . Anakronus claims to be a supervillain who has attacked the Justice League numerous times, but Snapper knows that the man has never tangled with the League before. Snapper succeeds in having Anakronus tell his (rather lengthy) stories about how he destroyed the League. This prevents the man from killing the Carr family for several hours. Members of the JLA show up and easily apprehend Anakronus.\n\nThe Snapper Carr character was depicted as a supervillain in 1977.\n\nThe Key was a villain who had brainwashed Snapper in 1965, and induced him to poison the JLA's food. In 1968, the Key implanted a post-hypnotic suggestion in the members of the JLA, which forced them to stay in their headquarters for one hour. At the end of that time, they would kill one another. The Key planned for Snapper to kill Superman with a kryptonite ray-gun. The Key battled the Justice League again in 1974, attempting to blow up the city of St. Louis, Missouri, but Snapper Carr was not present for this event (having resigned from the JLA five years earlier).\n\nThe Key's 1977 involvement with Snapper Carr came in the story \"The Face of the Star-Tsar!\" Doctor Light, a long-time JLA foe, attempted to access the JLA Satellite. Mark Shaw, the former villainous Manhunter now in a new guise as the heroic Privateer, tried to stop him but was defeated. The JLA arrived and Light fled, only to run into a new villain—the Star-Tsar. When the JLA caught up to the two villains, the Star-Tsar fled to the city of Washington, D.C., and attacked an embassy there. The JLA rushed to the nation's capital and apprehended the Star-Tsar's henchmen, but they could not locate the villain himself. They did, however, find Snapper Carr lurking nearby. The JLA then rushed off to Doctor Light's underwater lair in a lake in New York City's Central Park. Anticipating their arrival, Doctor Light trapped the heroes with a device that phased them out of our dimension. In a surprising turn of events, the Star-Tsar helped the Justice League escape before fleeing himself. Trapped in his own hideout by the JLA, Doctor Light blew a hole in the wall and escaped again. Leaving the villain's lair, the JLA discovered the unconscious Star-Tsar, who had been knocked out by debris from the blast. They unmasked him, only to discover that the Star-Tsar was Snapper Carr. \n\nThe story continued in \"The Key—Or Not The Key\", with Snapper/Star-Tsar freed by Star-Tsar henchmen. Several League members trace the henchmen's flying getaway vehicles to the Star-Tsar's lair. However, they are swiftly captured by the Key, who survived his last encounter with the Justice League back in 1974. Meanwhile, in Happy Harbor, other JLA members try to talk to Snapper Carr's family in an attempt to understand why Snapper would have turned to crime. Janet Carr bitterly tells the heroes that Snapper was unable to attend college or find employment because of his past association with the Justice League, and had been living a life of misery and poverty. As Janet spoke to them, the Star-Tsar attacked Happy Harbor. But after seeing Janet, he broke off his attack and fled. The JLA members followed the Star-Tsar to the Key's hideout, but Snapper—dressed as the Star-Tsar—tried to warn them that they were falling into a trap. A second Star-Tsar appeared and incapacitated everyone. Later, this second Star-Tsar set off bombs in Washington, D.C., and threatened President Jimmy Carter with more explosions if he did not pay a ransom. In the Key's hideout, Snapper found himself imprisoned alongside the other JLAers. He told them how the Key found him, destitute and depressed, and offered to supply him with weapons and money if he attacked the JLA. Desperate to feel good about himself, Snapper agreed to participate in the Key's plan. Snapper said the Key, disguised as the Star-Tsar, must have attacked the embassy in Washington. Feeling remorse for attacking his friends, Snapper decided to expose the Key by attacking Happy Harbor (knowing full well that the JLA would easily track him). The JLA soon freed themselves, and discovered that the Key had suffered a horrible accident that left him with a doll-sized body but normal-sized head. The heroes deduced that since the Key could not run in his robotic, humanoid body, there must be a third Star-Tsar. The Red Tornado then exposed Mark Shaw as the third Star-Tsar. At the end of the story, Superman says he will not send Snapper Carr to jail, and has something else in mind for him.\n\nThe Snapper Carr character made a number of appearances in \"The Superman Family\" comic book from 1978 to 1982. Superman gets Snapper at job at S.T.A.R. Labs, the fictional nonprofit research corporation devoted to creating high-tech weapons and prisons to handle various supervillain and alien menaces. Snapper surreptitiously stole the wreck of a Kryptonian space-sled in the story \"Birthright of Power!\", and briefly appeared in the story \"Kandor vs. Supergirl\" as a witness at the trial of Supergirl. He helped defend her in the follow-on story by gathering letters of recommendation from Justice League members, and then was hired as an assistant by Supergirl's foster father, Fred Danvers. Three issues later, he made a brief appearance in the Supergirl story \"What Goes Up Can't Come Down\" and its conclusion \"The Gravity War\". At the end of \"Nightmare in New Athens\", Snapper is shown to have used the space-sled to fix a Superboy robot, but a disembodied intelligence takes control of the android. In \"The Screamin' Demon\", readers learn that student teacher Paul French has tried to wipe the memories of his criminal past by developing a \"transistorized brain\". Somehow, it all went wrong, and while he slept his unconscious mind seized control of the robot. (Supergirl briefly battled the robot before Paul woke.)\n\nThe Snapper Carr character also played a role in the resignation of Green Arrow from the JLA. The story, which is told in flashback, depicted Black Canary and Green Arrow investigating an explosion at the Star City Museum. They were attacked by the Star-Tsar, felled, and hospitalized. Snapper Carr, who just happened to be in Star City, arrives at the hospital to tell them that his Star-Tsar suit was stolen from the Metropolis police by an astronomer named Richard Rigel, who was working on technology powered by starlight. Green Arrow manages to stop the new Star-Tsar by deducing where he will attack next, but not before blundering members of the JLA almost allow the villain to kill thousands of people. In disgust at the JLA's conduct, Green Arrow resigned from the Justice League.\n\nWriter Gerry Conway brought Snapper Carr back to the Justice League for the comic book's 200th issue. A post-hypnotic suggestion makes the League's original seven members try to reassemble the seven Appellaxian meteorites from the 1962 adventure and use them to clone new Appellaxians who will initiate a second invasion of Earth. Snapper Carr waits with superhero Firestorm aboard the JLA Satellite, while the other heroes successfully battle the aliens.\n\nThe Snapper Carr character appeared again in 1999 in the comic book \"Legends of the DC Universe\". In the fictional character chronology, this story occurs some time after Green Arrow's 1980 resignation from the Justice League, but before Green Arrow rejoins the League in 1982. In this story (\"Critical Mass Stages 1-5\"/\"Critical Mass Stages 6-16\"), Snapper witnesses five JLA members growing to monstrous size. He believes this is a side-effect of a long-ago attack by a minor villain named Packrat. Snapper finds Green Arrow, who locates Packrat's shrink ray and restores the heroes to their correct size. As Snapper departs, Green Arrow tells the boy that he needs to forgive himself.\n\nIn 1989, DC Comics published a three-issue limited series titled \"Invasion!\" The Dominators, an alien race usually seen in the Legion of Super-Heroes comics, decide to invade Earth to learn the secret of the metagene—a gene that can give certain human beings superpowers. In the first issue of \"Invasion!\", it is revealed that thousands of Earthlings have been kidnapped and taken to the Dominator homeworld, where they are forced to run a gauntlet of horrific, deadly traps and experiments known as \"the Blaster\". Six humans, including Snapper Carr, survive the Blaster, an indication that they have the metagene. Indeed, the Blaster itself forces the metagene in each person to manifest, and Snapper gains the ability to teleport whenever he snaps his fingers. In the third issue, these six new heroes are transferred to Starlag, the Dominator prison-world. There, they meet up with the extraterrestrial superhero team the Omega Men. They also meet Brainiac 2 and his super-team, the Licensed Extra-Governmental Interstellar Operatives Network (L.E.G.I.O.N.). Together, the three groups break out of Starlag and flee aboard a shuttle piloted by the feline alien, Churljenkins. They run into a superhero task force led by Superman, and assist in the invasion of the Dominator homeworld. There, they discover a cure for the Dominators' \"gene bomb\" (a device which accelerates metagene activity and destabilizes superpowers, ending with the death of the person with the metagene). Snapper and his group, now called the Blasters, return to Earth while Churljenkins joins the Omega Men and flies off into space.\n\nThe Snapper Carr character next appeared in a one-off comic, \"Blasters\". The story in this comic book begins with Snapper Carr in an alien insane asylum. Snapper had decided to keep his eyes open during a teleport, to see what occurs. Unfortunately, he witnessed an eternity of time passing, and was driven temporarily insane. The reader also learns that each of the Blasters has had trouble adjusting to their new superpowers, and are also incarcerated in the asylum. Snapper escapes by teleporting directly to Churljenkins' ship, which had broken down on an alien world. Churljenkins restores Snapper's sanity, and the two of them repair the ship and flee—stranding the Omega Men. They learn that the Dominators have destroyed Churljenkins' home planet, so they return to Earth. On the journey there, they discover that the Spider Guild (an alien race of humanoid arachnids) has created a weapons depot near Earth. Snapper breaks the Blasters out of the hospital, and the team destroys the depot.\n\nThe Snapper Carr character next appeared in the comic book \"Valor\". The planet Daxam had helped the Dominators invade Earth, but were convinced by Superman to switch sides. Daxamites, a sub-species of Kryptonian, also gain superpowers under a yellow sun, and this vast army of supermen helped turn the tide and save Earth. The father of Lar Gand (later named Mon-el) died during this battle. Deciding to honor his father, Lar Gand becomes a superhero, joins L.E.G.I.O.N., and meets Superman—who gives him the name Valor. Snapper Carr's involvement in the Valor story begins after Valor is accidentally imprisoned on Starlag II, a Dominator prison-world with a red sun. Valor signals for help, and his artificial intelligence unit sends for the Blasters. By this time, the Blasters had a number of adventures (none of them depicted in the comic book, just mentioned by the characters) which had turned out poorly, and were about to disband. While rescuing Valor, the team accidentally releases the energy being known as The Unimaginable. Valor and the Blasters battle The Unimaginable, and Valor escapes Starlag II. The Blasters, however, become trapped there.\n\nSome time thereafter, Snapper Carr and the Blasters are able to escape Starlag II, but Snapper becomes separated from his friends. (Their escape, and how Snapper became separated from them, is not depicted in any comic.) In stories first published in 2000, but occurring in the character's chronology at a point after the adventure with Valor, Snapper finds himself being pursued by the Khunds, an aggressive alien race from the Legion of Super-Heroes comic books. Snapper is captured, and his fingers are locked together to prevent him from teleporting. Snapper mulls over his past, and concludes that he has always been a disappointment—first to the Justice League, then to the Blasters. The Khunds torture Snapper, then cut off his hands—depriving him of the ability to teleport. (Snapper Carr later tells Hourman that this is the worst moment in his life.) At some point soon thereafter, Snapper Carr is reunited with Brainiac 2 on the planet Cairn, where Brainiac gives him new hands. Unfortunately, Snapper still cannot teleport.\n\nThe character of Snapper Carr is a main character in the \"Hourman\" comic book, which was published from April 1999 to April 2001. Throughout the comic book's run, a running gag depicts Snapper wearing a series of T-shirts, each emblazoned with a different superhero's logo or uniform colors. In this comic book, Hourman III is an android from the 853rd century. He was built by Tyler ChemoRobotics, a company founded by Hourman II (Rick Tyler) in the late 20th century. Hourman III traveled permanently to the 20th century, which is the one place he believed he could grow and evolve as a lifeform. He joined the Justice League, and at one point accessed all of Batman's memories of the League. These memories made Hourman III realize that Snapper Carr would be a good \"humanity coach\". The reader learns that, after having his hands restored, Snapper returned to Earth. He married and was divorced by a young woman named Bethany Lee (whose mother is the Happy Harbor chief of police). Snapper is depicted spending most of his time at a trendy if run-down Happy Harbor coffeehouse, the Mad Yak Café, and caring for his pet cat, whom he has named Starro.\n\nThroughout the run of \"Hourman\", Snapper is subjected to a wide range of horrors and bad experiences. Snapper is turned into an android by Amazo after Amazo gains the ability to not just capture a person's super-powers but their humanity as well. Starro is injured, and Hourman reverses the \"humanization\" effect. In a tie-in to the \"Day of Judgment\" cross-over and one-off, Snapper fantasizes about two alternative futures—one in which he never betrays the Justice League and becomes a super-hero, and one in which he betrays them and becomes a washed-up alcoholic. Snapper is able to deduce that demons are harassing him and his friends, causing these fantasies, and he not only gets rid of the demons but convinces one of them to reject evil and become good by (feeding it cheesecake). Shortly thereafter, Snapper Carr and his friends are accidentally trapped aboard Hourman's timeship for months, nearly going insane. After being freed, Snapper is kidnapped by demons and tortured for several days, but is freed by Hourman. Snapper is shown suffering from severe depression after this experience. Hourman asks Snapper to tell him about his time with the Justice League, and in flashback Snapper relates the events of \"Justice League of America\" #77. The reader learns that Snapper regrets quitting the Justice League, and that Bethany divorced him because Snapper felt he wasn't good enough for her. Hourman says that Snapper fights for the common man, and that's what people like about him. This lifts Snapper out of his depression. Amazo returns and appears to kill Snapper Carr. The reader learns, however, that Snapper is not dead but back in time, caught in a loop where he is forced to relive the loss of his hands over and over. Hourman merges his body with Amazo's, and is able to retrieve Snapper from the time-loop. Realizing he's learned as much about being human as he can, Hourman decides to return to the 853rd century. He takes Snapper and his other friends aboard the timeship for some travel and fun, but Hourman suddenly vanishes from the craft and it crashes on an asteroid. After a few days pass, Hourman returns to the timeship, drops Snapper and his friends off at Happy Harbor, and leaves.\n\nThe character of Snapper Carr next has a major recurring role in the comic book \"Young Justice\". The T-shirt running gag begun in \"Hourman\" continues in \"Young Justice\".\n\nYoung Justice is a group of superheroes composed of teenagers and young adults. Initially, the group was mentored by the Red Tornado. However, in \"Young Justice\" #38, the super-fast hero known as Impulse (Bart Allen) decides to leave the group to live a life away from super-heroics. Robin (Tim Drake) resigns, too, feeling no one trusts him. Wonder Girl (Cassie Sandsmark) asks Red Tornado for help, and he persuades Snapper Carr to provide daily oversight of the group. Snapper Carr appears irregularly over the remaining publication history of \"Young Justice\". He appeared in issues #39, #40, and #41, but not in issues #42, #43, #44, or #45. Snapper reappeared in issues #46 and #47, but wasn't in issue #48. He returned in issue #49, did not appear in issue #50, and returned again in issue #51. Snapper Carr appeared in the remaining issues of \"Young Justice\", which ended its publication run with issue #55.\n\nDuring and after Snapper Carr's run in \"Young Justice\", the character appeared in cameos three times in other comic books. The first appearance was when he attended Green Arrow's funeral. The second appearance showed him hanging out with the Justice League during a meeting with the Avengers from Marvel Comics. The third appearance was when he attended Green Arrow's wedding to Black Canary. In this last outing, Snapper's invitation to the wedding is stolen and restolen by a host of villains, but Snapper manages to attend the event all the same.\n\nDC Comics rebooted their comic universe in 1985 and 1986 in the crossover event \"Crisis on Infinite Earths\", again in \"\" in 1994, again in \"Infinite Crisis\" in 2005 and 2006, again in \"Final Crisis\" in 2008, and yet again in \"Flashpoint\" and \"The New 52\" in 2011. The initial reboot was intended to resolve continuity problems which had crept into the DC Comics universe over the past 50 years, and the subsequent reboots were to correct problems created by \"Crisis on Infinite Earths\" (although, in some cases, they worsened them).\n\nDuring the build-up to \"Infinite Crisis\", DC Comics published a limited series titled \"Identity Crisis\". Batman is surprised to discover that many supervillains have gained access to the JLA Satellite, the Justice League Watchtower (a base on the moon), and (after the Watchtower's destruction) the new JLA Satellite. Worse, many villains have learned the secret identity of a wide range of heroes. Zatanna, a sorceress and Justice League member, has (with the consent of nearly all members of the League) been wiping the memories of these villains. Batman, who opposed this decision, also had his memories wiped. In May 2005, comic book readers learn that Batman has designed and constructed an artificial intelligence and placed it aboard a satellite called Brother MK I, nicknamed \"Brother Eye\". The purpose of Brother Eye is to keep track of superhero activities in case Batman's memories are wiped again. Unfortunately, the hero-turned-villain Alexander Luthor, Jr. gives the satellite sentience and Maxwell Lord, leader of the government agency Checkmate, takes control of it. Lord secretly alters millions of people around the globe with Checkmate technology, turning them into \"Observational Metahuman Activity Constructs\" (OMACs)—superpowered creatures which will do Lord's bidding. Brother Eye frames Wonder Woman for Lord's death and then unleashes a quarter million OMACs against the world's heroes. Brother Eye is eventually defeated, although hundreds of thousands of people still have OMAC technology within their bodies.\n\nIt is later revealed the Snapper Carr joined Checkmate during the OMAC crisis.\n\nThe \"Infinite Crisis\" crossover event that concluded in 2006 was immediately followed by a major DC Comics event known as \"One Year Later\". \"One Year Later\" was designed to explore the major continuity changes created by \"Infinite Crisis\". With Superman and Batman apparently dead and Wonder Woman retired, \"One Year Later\" also examined how the world coped without its three biggest superheroes. It was followed chronologically by \"52\", a one-comic-a-week publication that covered the \"missing year\" between the end of \"Infinite Crisis\" and \"One Year Later\". In the fictional timeline of the DC Comics universe, \"52\" came between \"Infinite Crisis\" and \"One Year Later\".\n\n\"52\" included several one-off and limited series comic books. One of these limited series was the six-part comic book \"52: Aftermath\". \"52\" had established the existence of the Science Squad, a group of supervillain mad scientists based in the nation of Oolong Island (which is ruled by evil superscientist Veronica Cale). The Science Squad unleashes the Four Horsemen of Apokolips—Yurrd (famine), Rogga (war), Zorrm (pestilence), and Azraeuz (death). These bioengineered beings were created specifically to attack the Black Marvel Family, rulers of the Middle Eastern nation of Kahndaq. In \"52\" #43 through #50 and expanded upon in the four issues of the limited series \"World War III\", Black Adam's lover, the superheroine Isis, dies after being infected by Zorrm, and Yurrd eats her brother, Osiris. Black Adam goes mad with rage and grief and announces he will kill every single human being on the planet. He then commits genocide, murdering all the people in the fictional Middle Eastern nation of Bialya (where he believes the Four Horsemen originated). After being briefly imprisoned by the Science Squad, Black Adam is freed by his friend Atom Smasher (who mistakenly doesn't believe Black Adam capable of genocide) and slaughters hundreds of thousands of people in Italy and China. Black Adam is finally stopped by Captain Marvel.\n\nThe Four Horsemen are not dead, however. They return almost immediately in a new limited series comic book, \"52 Aftermath: The Four Horsemen\", which began publication in November 2007 (six months after the events of \"52\" and \"World War III\"). In this story, the spirits of the bioengineered beings survived their destruction by Black Adam and fled to the former nation of Bialya, where millions of bodies lay unburied. Veronica Cale (hoping to regain control of the beings) secretly gives them \"morphogenetic technology\" to make their bodies more adaptable to Earth and less capable of being destroyed. Superman, Batman, and Wonder Woman arrive in Bialya in time to see the Four Horsemen constructing new bodies from the millions of corpses lying around them. The Snapper Carr character appears at the end of the second issue, where he is shown monitoring the three heroes for Checkmate. Snapper reveals himself to the heroes in the third issue, and explains that he not only joined Checkmate during the OMAC crisis but has been secretly monitoring the Justice League's activities since the dissolution of Young Justice. Superman is angered by this and demands an end to Snapper's spying, but Batman argues that Snapper can help in case the battle against the Four Horsemen does not go well. Things don't go well, and Superman rescues Batman and Snapper from an advancing army of zombies resurrected by Azraeuz. Superman is infected by Zorrm, and Batman voices concern for him. Snapper Carr blithely tells him that \"Clark can take care of himself\", and Batman slaps him for pretending an over-friendly familiarity with a hero he barely knows. In the fourth issue of the limited series, Mister Terrific, one of the four heads of Checkmate, arrives on Oolong Island. He teleports Snapper, Superman, and Batman out of Bialya and to Oolong Island, where he tells the heroes that the Science Squad is alarmed that the Four Horsemen remain out of their control. The villains, he says, are now attempting to build a device to contain them, and Checkmate is assisting that effort. Snapper is present when Batman, Superman, and Wonder Woman defeat the Four Horsemen, and is left behind on the island by the heroes when they leave.\n\nFrom 2007 to 2008, DC Comics published the \"Death of the New Gods\" eight-issue limited series. In this comic book, all of the New Gods are killed, the planets New Genesis and Apokolips merge, and the Fourth World dimension ceases to exist in favor of a new \"Fifth World\" dimension.\n\nIn May 2007, even as \"52\" was still being published, DC Comics began publishing the 52-issue, one-comic-per-week \"Countdown\" comic book (later known as \"Countdown to Final Crisis\"). It premiered with issue #51 (issues were numbered in reverse order), changed its name to \"Countdown to Final Crisis\" midway through its publication run, and concluded with \"DC Universe\" #0 (also known as \"Countdown to Final Crisis\" #0). This set in motion yet another reboot of the DC Comics universe, \"Final Crisis.\" There was a seven-issue \"Final Crisis\" limited series, six crossover stories, a one-off, and 10 \"Final Crisis\" spin-off titles (some of them one-shots, some of them limited series).\n\nThe \"Final Crisis\" event storyline begins with Darkseid's death, and his spirit and the spirit of all the Apokoliptian New Gods falling to Earth. This somehow creates a quantum singularity that will consume all creation. The supervillain Libra, who became a New God after his 1974 battle with the Justice League and somehow escaped the death of the New Gods, seizes control of a large number of nations and organizations on Earth on behalf of Darkseid. Darkseid obtains a new body, and releases the Anti-Life Equation (a metaphysical virus which allows Darkseid to control the mind of anyone it infects). After a month, nearly all the people of Earth are under Darkseid's control. So are most superheroes and supervillains, whom Darkseid organizes into a terrorist unit called \"Justifiers\". Darkseid is eventually defeated, and the universe rebooted by Superman (using a Miracle Machine from the 31st century).\n\nThe one-off publication \"Final Crisis: Resist\" features Snapper Carr. It begins the same day the Anti-Life Equation is released, and the events in the story take place over the next few days. In the book's opening pages, Snapper is shown to be at Checkmate's headquarters in Antarctica. While nearly all Checkmate staff, heroes, and villains are infected with Anti-Life, a few barricade themselves inside the compound, which is protected by force fields. Snapper, whose teleportation abilities have now remanifested (how is not explained in the story), spends the first few days after the release of Anti-Life teleporting around the globe disrupting Darkseid's hold on various scientific organizations. But supplies are almost nonexistent at the Checkmate base. After several days, Snapper teleports to France to seek food for the Checkmate hold-outs. He is attacked by the Anti-Life-infected hero Firehawk, but the supervillain Cheetah knocks Firehawk unconscious. A few days later, Snapper teleports to a hospital in the United States to find medical supplies. He is sickened to see children being infected with Anti-Life. He discovers Cheetah in an empty medical ward of the hospital, bandaging an injury. Cheetah reacts to Snapper's presence by seducing him, and they make love. Cheetah tells Snapper she is impressed by his physical endowment and love-making skills. Their post-coital interlude is interrupted by the Justifier Gorilla Grodd. Snapper teleports himself and Cheetah to Checkmate headquarters, but the strain of teleporting another person (which he is doing for the first time) burns out his teleportation power. The one-off comic book ends with Mister Terrific activating OMACs worldwide to help defeat Darkseid. The final panels of the publication show Snapper leading a charge of OMACs, Mister Terrific, Cheetah, and the remaining Checkmate staff in a charge out of the bunker.\n\nThe last appearance of the Snapper Carr character (as of 2015) occurred in 2009 in \"Justice League of America 80-Page Giant\".\n\nIn this story, Snapper Carr is biding his time at the Secret Sanctuary in Happy Harbor, and summons Cheetah for some romance and perhaps sex. Their tryst is interrupted by the appearance of the supervillain known as Time Commander (who had recently battled Hourman II). Time Commander claims that his grandmother is about to be born today, and that the supervillain Epoch (formerly known as the Lord of Time, and an old JLA enemy) wants to kill the infant so that Time Commander will never be born. Epoch, he says, is already in the hospital and searching for the child. Furthermore, Epoch is also trying to kill the Justice League by attacking them when they were children. Time Commander has already scattered the JLA through time in an attempt to stop Epoch from carrying out his plans. (If the Justice League never survives infancy, they will not form the League and Snapper Carr will not be around to help Time Commander.) Most of the issue follows the adventures of six teams, composed of one or more League members, as they try to stop Epoch at various points in the past. At the end of the issue, Snapper persuades Cheetah to help by distracting Epoch so Snapper can teleport into the hospital, grab Epoch, and then teleport himself and Epoch back outside. Having done so, Snapper then grabs Epoch's \"time gauntlet\" and teleports to the side of the Time Commander—with Epoch's forearm and hand in his grasp. (The re-emergence of Snapper's teleportation powers is not explained in the story.) With Epoch's technology (and limb) stolen, the attack in the past ceases. The JLA reappear and quickly subdue Epoch. Cheetah, Snapper, and Time Commander bid goodbye to the newborn grandmother in the hospital, and Time Commander takes Epoch to the Timepoint (a frozen moment in time that serves as a prison). In the story's final panels, Cheetah reveals that the baby isn't Time Commander's grandmother (a fact she can sense using her fertility powers). Snapper realizes he's been duped: The Time Commander merely wanted to distract Snapper so that he could steal Hourman's hourglass-shaped time-travel device from the JLA trophy case.\n\nSnapper Carr makes an appearance in the 2019 run of \"Dial H for Hero\". The H-Dial (which can turn a person into a wide range of super-powered beings) is found by Miguel Montez. The H-Dial proves to be addictive, so that anyone who has used it in the past now craves to possess and use it. The mysterious villain Mister Thunderbolt is one of these seeking the device. Miguel and his friend, Summer Pickens, arrive at the Justice League's Detroit headquarters and meet Snapper Carr, who is managing robotic doubles of the Justice League. As Snapper Carr tries to contact the Hall of Justice, Mister Thunderbolt programs the robots to attack Miguel, Summer, and Snapper. Using the H-Dial, Summer transforms into Chimp Change, Snapper turns into Alien Ice Cream Man, and Miguel turns into Lil' Miguelito. As Chimp Change and Alien Ice Cream Man subdue the robots, Mister Thunderbolt tricks Miguel into dialing \"S\" for Sockamagee. This releases Mister Thunderbolt from his prison. Summer and Snapper return to normal. Mister Thunderbolt disappears into a dimensional portal, and Miguel follows him. With Snapper still unable to contact the Hall of Justice, Summer borrows the Supermobile and flies to Metropolis to find Superman.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2071750", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2071750", "title": "Texas's 20th congressional district", "text": "Texas's 20th congressional district\n\nTexas's 20th congressional district of the United States House of Representatives includes the western half of San Antonio and Bexar County in Texas. The district is heavily Latino/Hispanic (predominantly of Mexican descent), as is the surrounding area. Charlie Gonzalez, who represented the district from 1999 to 2013 after succeeding his father, Henry B. Gonzalez, did not seek re-election in the 2012 United States House of Representatives elections. State representative Joaquin Castro, the Democratic nominee to replace Gonzalez, defeated David Rosa, the Republican nominee, in the race for Texas's 20th district on November 6, 2012. His term began on January 3, 2013.\n\nThe 20th is a heavily Democratic district; it has not supported a Republican for president since 1956. In 1972, this was one of two congressional districts in the state of Texas to vote for George McGovern (the other being the 18th district in Houston). In 1984, this district gave Walter Mondale 59% of its vote.\n\nDemocratic challenger Joaquin Castro defeated Republican challenger David Rosa in the race for Texas's 20th district on November 6, 2012. Prior to being elected, Castro served as a state representative of the Texas House from the state's 125th District.\n\nDemocrat Joaquin Castro defeated Libertarian challenger Jeffrey Blunt in the race for Texas's 20th district on November 4, 2014.\n\nDemocratic incumbent Joaquin Castro defeated Libertarian challenger Jeffrey Blunt and Green Party candidate Paul Pipkin in the race for Texas's 20th district on November 8, 2016.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2071751", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2071751", "title": "Swervedriver", "text": "Swervedriver\n\nSwervedriver are an English alternative rock band formed in Oxford in 1989 around core members Adam Franklin and Jimmy Hartridge. Between 1989 and 1998, the band released four studio albums and numerous EPs and singles despite a considerable flux of members, managers, and record labels. By 1993 the band’s lineup had settled with Franklin on vocals/guitar, Hartridge on guitar, Jez Hindmarsh on drums, and Steve George on bass. They had emerged with a heavier rock sound than their shoegaze contemporaries, and over the next five years it evolved to include elements of psychedelia, classic pop, and indie rock.\n\nRecord label issues and waning interest within the group led to their split at the end of 1998. A decade later, Swervedriver reunited and toured periodically over the next five years, releasing their first new material in fifteen years with the 2013 single \"Deep Wound\". They have since released two full-length albums, \"I Wasn't Born to Lose You\" in 2015 and \"Future Ruins\" in 2019, with touring stand-ins drummer Mikey Jones and bassist Mick Quinn permanently joining the band.\n\nSwervedriver have their roots in Oxford when schoolmates and aspiring guitarists Franklin and Hartridge along with Franklin's older brother and vocalist, Graham, and drummer Paddy Pulzer formed the band Shake Appeal in 1984. In 1987, bass player Adrian \"Adi\" Vines, from Yorkshire, joined the band, and the following year they released their solitary single \"Gimme Fever\" through Notown Records. Shake Appeal were influenced by late '60s garage rock bands like The Stooges and MC5, drawing similar influences from the sights and sounds of the British Leyland car factory Franklin and Hartridge walked past every day on the way to school. When influence turned to emulation, the members felt they needed to develop a sound of their own. They had meanwhile turned their attention to American alternative rock acts Hüsker Dü, Sonic Youth, and Dinosaur Jr., and subsequently were inspired \"to push out the boundaries of electric guitar within a pop format.\"\n\nIn 1989, after Shake Appeal disbanded, Adam Franklin composed the songs \"Volcano Trash\", \"Afterglow\", and \"Son of Mustang Ford\" (which would become Swerverdriver's first single). The former band mates were impressed with his work and assembled at Union Street Studios in Oxford to record a demo, with Adam Franklin shifting to lead vocals and his brother singing backup. Soon thereafter, Graham Franklin and Pulzer left the band to pursue other musical interests. Growing tired of the local scene, the group had decided to head to London, and there they met drummer and Edinburgh-native Graham Bonnar, formerly of the post-punk band The Shattered Family. Before leaving Oxford, they had handed their demo to Mark Gardener of local band Ride, who in turn passed it on to Alan McGee of Creation Records. McGee signed them almost immediately after listening to the tape (while driving around downtown Los Angeles in the back of a limousine) and Swervedriver was born.\n\nInstead of debuting with a full-length album, Swervedriver released a series of four-track EPs over the span of a year, subscribing to the popular trend in the early '90s. \"If you had 4 songs ready-ish, you would record them there and then and put them all out ASAP. No such thing as 'saving songs for the album' back then,\" explained Hartridge. The tracks were recorded at The Greenhouse & Falconer Studios in London and were all produced by the band. Swervedriver's debut offering, \"Son of Mustang Ford\", was released on 16 July 1990 and included the song \"Kill the Superheroes\", one of Franklin's first attempts at writing in an alternate tuning. Franklin stated in \"NME\", \"\"Son of Mustang Ford\" was based on the \"Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas\" idea – driving around, out of your box, over America's landscapes.\" The EP was characterized as \"a chromium-plated piece of automobile romanticism.\" The group launched the release with an appearance on the John Peel BBC Radio 1 show on 31 July 1990, performing a select B-side from each of their three debut EPs along with the song \"Over\" (which would not see an official release for 15 years). The release of \"Rave Down\", the second EP in the series, followed in November. Mary Anne Hobbs called its title track \"a cyclone of wild, swollen riff machinery that sounds like it's been played with dislocated shoulder joints.\" Both EPs received favorable reviews and their title singles made their way into the UK indie and metal charts. However, mainstream British music press soon shifted their focus to bands who fit easier into the shoegazer mould. The group began gaining popularity in the United States, and in early 1991 Swervedriver signed with American label A&M Records and went on their first US tour, a brief run of shows in support of Ned's Atomic Dustbin that kicked off at the Marquee in New York City. On 22 July 1991, their third EP, \"Sandblasted\", was released with the title single reaching number 67 on the UK chart and being described as \"a head-on collision between guitars raging for chaos.\"\n\nSwervedriver released their debut album, \"Raise\", on 30 September 1991. It was recorded at The Greenhouse & Falconer Studios and produced by the band, like their prior EPs, and included the title tracks from all three. Regarding the group's overriding fascination with everything automotive, Franklin had said, \"the car thing came from twisting around rock 'n' roll imagery. Chuck Berry used to sing about cars. T. Rex used to sing about cars, and being in the car is just a good place to hear music.\" The album was praised as \"incurably romantic, [getting] its rocks off\" as one of the \"truly great albums made this year\" and charted 44th in the UK. Swervedriver toured the UK extensively in support of the album and was invited to a second BBC Radio 1 session on 23 November 1991. Producer Alan Moulder, who had worked with fellow Creation acts The Jesus and Mary Chain and My Bloody Valentine, introduced himself to Franklin at a bar at the University of North London's ULU music venue with the interest of working together. Moulder met the band at Greenhouse studios and there they recorded \"Never Lose That Feeling\", Swervedriver's fourth EP, which featured the \"Raise\" outtake \"The Watchmakers Hands\" and the track \"Scrawl and Scream\", a slowed-down reworking of \"Afterglow\".\nSwervedriver then embarked on a proper headlining tour of North America with American indie rock act Poster Children opening. On 6 February 1992, while waiting to cross the Canada–US border for a show in Toronto, Bonnar left the tour bus to \"go get a sandwich\" and did not come back. Despite having fully intended to complete the tour, artistic differences between band members made it impossible for him to continue. After he spoke to Hartridge, Bonnar told him he wanted out of the band. Dan Davis from Run Westy Run filled in for the next five dates, and then tour manager Phil Ames called on Danny Ingram from Washington, D.C. band Strange Boutique to finish the tour. The group, with Ingram in tow, returned to the US in April 1992 to support A&M label mates Monster Magnet and Soundgarden and then performed a short stint in Japan. Before departing on their second leg, they had mixed \"Never Lose That Feeling\" which was released on 18 May 1992; the Moulder production would be Swervedriver's final release with the original lineup. Hartridge viewed the title track's riff as \"a bit of a bridge between \"Raise\" and \"Mezcal Head\" in some ways\" and the song would reach number 62 on the UK charts. Using footage from their first leg of touring, A&M representatives Jeff Suhy and Scott Carter produced the video \"On the Road with Swervedriver: A Rockumentary\", which also featured interviews and the music videos for \"Son of Mustang Ford\" and \"Sandblasted\", and released it on 14 May 1992. Just as they started to experience a rise in success, Swervedriver would hit another roadblock—in addition to them losing their manager, following a performance at the Hultsfred Festival in Sweden on 8 August 1992, Vines left to form heavy metal-oriented Skyscraper. Having already suffered the loss of Bonnar, the loss of Vines, whom some considered the face of the band, led music press to believe it would be difficult, if not impossible, for the band to sustain their momentum.\n\nUltimately all that remained of the band according to Franklin was, \"myself, Jimmy Hartridge and some effects pedals\", though Moulder still anticipated producing a full-length Swervedriver album. Franklin and Hartridge laid the groundwork for a new album at EMI's demoing studio near Oxford Street in London, and while recording newly written \"Duress\" with producer Marc Waterman, he introduced them to Jeremy \"Jez\" Hindmarsh, ex-drummer of the London band 5:30. (Waterman had produced their first album.) Later that night, Hindmarsh approached the duo at The Murray Arms bar in Camden Town and pitched them his services, including use of his 16-track studio equipment. They accepted and Swervedriver had their new drummer. The group got to work on recording their new album first at Playground rehearsal studios in Camden and then Trident 2 studios in Strutton Ground in Westminster, with Franklin and Hartridge splitting bass duties. Swervedriver would still need a bassist when the show hit the road, and Franklin would encounter him at another bar in Camden. About meeting Essex-native Steve George, Franklin recalled, \"He actually came up to me and said, 'You’re the guy from Swervedriver. You need a bass player. I’m your man.'\"\n\nOn 12 August 1993, the band released their second album, \"Mezcal Head\", produced by Alan Moulder and Swervedriver. Franklin and Hartridge credited Moulder for making the album sound \"big and clear\" and doing \"way more for us than we had hoped for.\" The album debuted at number 55 in the UK and was critically acclaimed—\"NME\" asserted, \"you are defied not to sit back, ride its massive cadences, revel in its classical form and sleek lines, and... fall helplessly in love.\" Later reviews praised it \"combined the best elements of shoegazing with grunge and even American indie rock\" and \"really is the lost classic of the shoegaze movement.\" Its first single, \"Duel\", garnered both \"NME's\" and \"Melody Maker's\" \"Single of the Week\" and hit number 60 on the UK chart (their highest charting single to date). The band shot two videos for the single: a self-produced snowboarding excursion at Mount Hood and a big-budget MTV effort set in downtown Los Angeles, which included new bassist George. Swervedriver set off touring for the album in the UK and then moved to North America in late 1993 to join Shudder to Think and The Smashing Pumpkins, solidifying a strong American following in the process.\nIn early 1994 the album's second single, \"Last Train to Satansville\", was released. Critics and fans alike were drawn to Hindmarsh's deeper, harder-hitting drumming and Franklin's stream-of-consciousness narrative, describing it as \"the height of alt-rock badassery ... with a monster guitar riff and chunky rhythm\" and a \"menacing spaghetti western bite.\" The single, along with \"Duel\", would be featured with songs from other A&M artists in the video game \"Road Rash\" for the 3DO system. Meanwhile, the group continued touring with fellow Creation act Medicine in Europe, Australia, and Japan. Later that year Swervedriver would put out their first single with George on bass, the \"limited edition export series, deleted on day of release\" 8-track recording, \"My Zephyr\", on boutique label The Flower Shop.\n\nSwervedriver's third album, \"Ejector Seat Reservation\", was recorded primarily at Church Studios and Konk Studios in Crouch End, North London and again produced by the band and Alan Moulder. Aside from themes of fatalism and flight working their way into its composition, \"for some reason we were wanting to reverse the notion of being the band with the American references in our songs and so some very British reference points appeared in the lyrics,\" explained Franklin. The band had a dispute with McGee over picking the album's launching single—they thought \"The Other Jesus\" was the obvious choice but McGee overrode them, selecting \"Last Day on Earth\" in an attempt to capitalize on the current trend perpetuated by Britpop bands like Oasis of featuring strings and acoustic guitars. Initial promo pressings of the record including the additional track \"It's All Happening Now\" had to be withdrawn after permission to use lyrics lifted from Bob Dylan's \"It's All Over Now, Baby Blue\" was denied. (They would later be given away to fan club members.) These incidents would prove to be just a precursor to the group's album woes, however. Realizing a vanishing return on their investment, American label A&M cut the band's funding, telling them the album would not fit into their release schedule for another year and a half. In response, the group requested to be released from their contract. With its loss of the band's licensing to A&M (approximately $350,000 per album), an already financially troubled Creation released \"Ejector Seat Reservation\" domestically on 15 July 1995 but dropped the band a week later. Subsequently, it received no promotional support (aside from a few small ads) and would remain unreleased in North America.\n\"Ejector Seat Reservation\" did get some press in mainland Europe (specifically France and Germany) and received significant support from licensee Sony Music in Australia, including an invitation for the group to tour the country at the end of the year, but that did not prevent it from becoming Swervedriver's poorest selling album. Despite its lack of commercial success, critics have considered \"Ejector Seat Reservation\" to be the band's highest achievement. Andy Kellman of AllMusic crowned it their \"most cohesive and concise record, best experienced in whole,\" which \"Swervedriver effortlessly committed ... as if they had it in them all along.\" \"Magnet\" magazine's Gil Gershman complimented it as the \"work of artists enjoying a towering creative high\" that \"should have topped every chart and won legions over to the Swervedriver cause.\" With the addition of George's deep grooves to the mix, melodic efforts like \"The Birds\", \"How Does It Feel to Look Like Candy?\", and \"Last Day on Earth\" saw Swervedriver branching out from their metallic roots and demonstrating their expanding influences in the likes of Elvis Costello, Burt Bacharach, and T. Rex.\n\nSwervedriver appeared to rebound when they signed a three-album deal with DGC Records (a subsidiary of Geffen Records) in early 1996. Originally, the first album in the deal was to be an American release of \"Ejector Seat Reservation\"; the band had attempted to talk A&M into relinquishing them the rights, but after news of their talks with Geffen was publicized on the Internet, A&M had come back with an exorbitant price for its sale (to avoid the same missed opportunity after previously dropped Soul Asylum hit it big with 1992's \"Grave Dancers Union\"). With their advance, they finished building their own recording studio, Bad Earth in Farringdon, and instead began work on a new record for the label. Over the next year, the group would record \"99th Dream\" with Moulder at the helm, this time taking a more simple, laid-back approach than with previous productions. They scaled back from 48-track to 24-track recording, condensing the layering of guitar in the process, and employed more full-ensemble straight live track, partly with the mindset of making it easier to play the guitar lines live. During that time, the band also put out a pair of self-produced boutique label seven-inch singles, including the double split \"Why Say Yeah\" with indie collaboration act Sophia. DGC distributed promotional copies of the album and scheduled a release date of 7 May 1997. Meanwhile, in December 1996 Swervedriver went back into the studio and re-recorded the album track \"These Times,\" citing their growing dislike for the original's faster-paced, Oasis-like sound and a bad experience with one of the label's reps during mixing. Three and a half weeks before \"99th Dream\" was due to be released, DGC dismissed the band's A&R representative, Jody Kurilla, in a corporate downsizing and three hours later terminated their contract (though they would not impede the record's future release). Considering the recent break with their third label in two years, Hindmarsh stated, \"Someone from A&M once told us that it takes four or five listens to a Swervedriver album to see whether you like it or not, and in this marketplace, unless you can hit immediately it's not going to register with people.\"\nStill determined to get the album out, Swervedriver forwent signing with one of two other interested major labels and instead opted for independent label Zero Hour Records out of New York. They officially released \"99th Dream\", their fourth album, on 24 February 1998. The band also formed their own label, Sonic Wave Discs (SWD), and on 10 August 1998 issued the album in the UK. About the album's progression to a more indie rock style, Franklin told \"The Star-Ledger\", \"It wasn't a conscious decision. [It was] just the way it was going – concise little pop songs, bossa nova beats and such.\" He continued, \"I've always liked the idea that you don't always know where it's coming from... [The lyrics are] all about time. It's all over the place. I didn't put too much thought into it, which may be good. You're fueling more from the subconscious that way.\" In an interview for \"Mean Street\" magazine, Hindmarsh mentioned, \"There's a track called 'She Weaves a Tender Trap.' That's like a one-take, all-four-of-us thing, and it has a lot more air in it, a lot more space. Whereas in the past, we used to try and fill every single hole. That song sort of defines a change in the way we're thinking. I think we're headed that way, to leave space to let the music breathe a little bit.\"\n\nReviews of the album were mixed, mainly around the band's shift from the heavier, multi-layered composition of previous releases to a more acoustic, song-based sound that at times seemed disjointed. \"Though the weakest of Swervedriver's four long-players of the '90s, \"99th Dream\" still shimmers and sizzles like the work of shamefully few bands of the time,\" asserted Andy Kellman of AllMusic. Tom Sinclair of \"Entertainment Weekly\" concurred: \"The sheer heaviness of the old Swervies is much missed, but even on cruise control the band has a singular intensity, not to mention a sharp sense of songcraft.\" Proponents of the release maintained it \"mixes the tempos up with equal parts 'Brit' to 'rock,' blending into a nice mix\" and \"never makes grandiose rock and roll promises, only to let the listener down later.\" Yet, not all reviews were favorable; \"NME\" lambasted the effort as an attempt \"to bung some lazy-eyed melody swoons, Mexican twangs and comatose rock-outs over the trademark billowing whale flatulence,\" and \"Drop-D Magazine\" opined, \"The slow, druggy pace and fascination with their own weird noises work against them.\"\n\nSwervedriver would spend the rest of the year touring extensively for the album. The band performed a promo gig opening for Hum on 26 February 1998 at Irving Plaza in New York and kicked off a North American stint in late May with acts such as Sianspheric, The Dandy Warhols, and Beck. The tour swung to the UK at the end of July, and discussions started within the band about a break: \"it cropped up – 'Is this fun? Are we having fun doing this?' I guess we kind of weren’t,\" spoke Franklin in a 2011 interview. They ultimately decided to keep going until the end of the year, honoring their touring commitments, and then according to Franklin, \"take a bit of a time out... although it did seem like the end, to me.\" The group returned to the US to headline a nine-show club tour in the Northeast; they immediately followed with a wide-ranging Australian tour opening for Powderfinger, with their last show taking place at Bootleg Brewery in Margaret River near Perth on 13 December 1998.\n\nThat year also saw the release of two more works through Swervedriver's personal label. The EP \"Space Travel, Rock 'n' Roll\", released on 10 February 1998 as an Australian single, showcased Hindmarsh's first experimentation with looping. The 6 July 1998 single \"Wrong Treats\" (\"These Times\" in Australia) would be the band's last offering before their ultimate hiatus and featured the instrumental \"Homeless Homecoming\", a recording begun during a soundcheck at the Metro Club in Sydney, and a cover of T. Rex's \"Château in Virginia Waters\".\n\nIn addition to being burned out from the rest of their tour, the band members were growing tired of the encompassing drug scene at their studio space and had entertained selling Bad Earth Studio to Ash before the building lease ran out on them. As they closed down the studio and moved their gear out, the reality of an indefinite hiatus sunk in. Franklin embarked on a solo career that would come to rival his previous band's creative output, first as the experimental electronic pop/folk group Toshack Highway, whose releases ranged from six-piece ensemble works to four-track bedroom recordings, and then as a more traditionally guitar-driven solo artist, continuing to this day as Adam Franklin & Bolts of Melody. Hartridge went on to establish a distribution company. Hindmarsh turned to managing bands full-time under Badearth management, which he founded in March 1998, eventually contracting with Scottish rock band Terra Diablo.\n\nIn the beginning of 2005, the group convened in a collaboration with Castle Music to decide on songs for a retrospective. \"Juggernaut Rides '89–'98\" compiled 33 tracks remastered from the original DATs (almost half of which being non-album tracks) and was released on 14 March 2005. The two-CD anthology featured four previously unreleased songs, including Shake Appeal's \"Son of Mustang Ford\" demo from 1989 and the remainder of Swervedriver's 1998 recordings, \"Just Sometimes\" and the orchestral string accompanied \"Neon Lights Glow\". Regarding the production effort for \"Juggernaut Rides\", Franklin told \"Tape Op\" magazine, \"Me and Jimmy sat there [during the remastering] and said, 'Wow this is pretty great.' You do forget things about the various tracks,\" and said to Australia's \"The Vine\", \"I quite like the fact that it’s not chronologically laid out, so you just jump straight into the middle.\" Reviews touted it as \"Swervedriver's beautiful corpse\" and asserted that it \"proves they were so much more than just another underachieving T-shirt band.\"\n\nThe following year on 24 November 2006, Hindmarsh published the autobiographical book \"Rider\" (Lulu.com self-publishing), which chronicles his experiences and observations on the road touring from 1992 to 1998 with Swervedriver. Meanwhile, Franklin had begun an indie rock collaboration with Interpol drummer Sam Fogarino under what would become the moniker Magnetic Morning. At the time, Franklin held little optimism for a Swervedriver reunion as they were all deep in individual pursuits but by mid 2007 had changed his outlook, referring positively to the successful 2004 reunion of the Pixies during an interview promoting his first release as a solo artist, \"Bolts of Melody\". The former band mates would get together with serious intentions shortly thereafter, when the idea resurfaced in a phone conversation between Franklin and Hartridge in early October 2007; on 19 October 2007, they officially announced that Swervedriver would reunite for a 2008 international tour. Hindmarsh confirmed the news on the band's discussion forum the following day: \"Yep – it's true. Your enthusiasm & passion for the band over these past years has been truly awe-inspiring. Humbling in fact.\" Franklin released the following statement on 6 November 2007 about the band getting back together:\n\nSwervedriver kicked off their reunion tour on 27 April 2008 at the Coachella Valley Music and Arts Festival in Indio, California and continued through North America for the next two months. The band then performed a pair of shows in Great Britain at the Scala London and King Tut's Wah Wah Hut in Glasgow on 16 and 18 September 2008, respectively. On the heels of the tour's success, remastered and extended editions of \"Raise\", \"Mezcal Head\", and \"Ejector Seat Reservation\" were reissued in the UK by Sony BMG on 13 October 2008. The special edition Digipaks contained four rare album-era bonus tracks and a 16-page booklet with expanded artwork and liner notes written by Franklin and Hartridge. Label collaboration Second Motion Records/Hi-Speed Soul licensed the \"Raise\" and \"Mezcal Head\" reissues and released them to American audiences on 20 January 2009.\n\nSwervedriver would go on to conduct a series of mini-tours over a year-and-a-half span (working around Franklin's busy solo career) beginning in late 2009 with another short stint in the UK. This first mini-tour culminated at the three-day All Tomorrow's Parties music festival at Butlin's holiday camp in Minehead from 4–6 December 2009, in which they shared a lineup with the likes of My Bloody Valentine, Sonic Youth, Buzzcocks, and Bob Mould. They regrouped a year later, this time reuniting with original drummer Bonnar, for two Scandinavian gigs in early November 2010 followed by a four-show trip to Australia in February 2011, attending the Perth International Arts Festival on 20 February 2011. In mid-June 2011, the band hit the three major US cities and Toronto with Mikey Jones of Bolts of Melody and Brooklyn dream pop act Heaven filling in for Bonnar, who was unavailable.\n\nIn preparation for an early 2012 American tour, Swervedriver appeared on \"Late Night with Jimmy Fallon\" on 26 March 2012, performing their debut single \"Son of Mustang Ford\" and premiering the song \"Deep Wound\", their first new material in 14 years, which was mixed and engineered by Albert Di Fiore. The tour went on for the next two weeks (with Jones again on drums), during which the band conducted a four-song studio session for KEXP 90.3 FM in Seattle on 4 April 2012, again playing \"Deep Wound\".\n\nIn June 2013, the band announced a five-date tour in Australia for late September–early October 2013 during which they would be performing \"Raise\" in its entirety along with \"old and new highlights\". The following month they recorded \"Deep Wound\" and on 20 August 2013 announced the single's release through Tym Records, scheduling a release date of 26 September 2013 to coincide with the start of the mini-tour. A limited number of purple seven-inch singles were made available for presale and limited edition red and yellow singles were sold during the tour.\n\nAt the conclusion of their \"\"Raise\"\" mini-tour, Swervedriver began recording material for a new album at Birdland Studios in Melbourne and then continued work at Konk Studios over the first half of 2014. The band took a break from recording to reprise a one-off \"\"Raise\"\" show at The Garage in Highbury, London on 4 April 2014. On 7 January 2015, the band announced that their new album, titled \"I Wasn't Born to Lose You\", would be released on 3 March 2015 through the Cobraside record label. The first single off the album, \"Setting Sun\", was released on 13 January 2015. When Steve George was unable to perform at some of the band's March 2015 US shows, Mick Quinn formerly of Supergrass acted as a fill-in bassist. As of 2018, Quinn is listed as a permanent member on Swervedriver's website and 2019 album, \"Future Ruins\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2071757", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2071757", "title": "A Cruel Angel's Thesis", "text": "A Cruel Angel's Thesis\n\nAccording to the liner notes to the album \"Refrain of Evangelion\", director Hideaki Anno had originally wanted to use a piece of classical music as the opening, but due to concern that this might confuse the anime viewership, a decision was made to use a more upbeat J-pop song instead.\n\nLyricist , commissioned to write the song, recalled that she completed \"\"Zankoku na tenshi no tēze\"\" in 2 hours by browsing the idea proposal for the anime and watching incomplete clips of the first two unaired episodes in fast mode. She had been given specific instructions by the producer to make the wording sophisticated and \"philosophical\". She reveals she got inspiration for the title from the manga \"A Cruel God Reigns\".\n\nThe production for the song was handled by of the King Records label. The original song included a male chorus, which was cut at director Hideaki Anno's request in order to \"emphasize maternal affection\".\n\nTwo instrumental versions of the song, arranged by series composer Shirō Sagisu are played in the finale episode, \"Take care of yourself.\" These are \"The Heady Feeling of Freedom\" and \"Good, or Don't Be\", scored for violin, piano, and guitar. \"The Heady Feeling of Freedom\" is a somber and reflective piece for bowed strings and guitar, while \"Good, or Don't Be\" is played to a light piano and guitar tone. Both are considerably different in feel from the more hard driving original. A similar, but sparser, version can also be heard during the intermission between the two parts of \"\".\n\nIn 2009, the original vocalist Takahashi recorded a new single, which included a remake of both this song and \"Fly Me to the Moon\", the series ending theme, to tie in with the theatrical release of the second \"Rebuild of Evangelion\" film.\n\nIn June 2018, King Records released a new HD music video of the song on YouTube.\n\nIn a survey by TV Asahi that was used to determine the results of a list of the 100 unforgettable anime theme songs, \"A Cruel Angel's Thesis\" made it to #55. In a later survey on a similar program on TV Asahi, it was included as the #18 song amongst anime released during the 1990s.\n\nIn 2011, the song won first place in JASRAC's annual awards for \"its continued royalties from online sales, pachinko and pachislo (pachinko parlor slot machine) games, karaoke, and other venues in 2010 — 15 years after its debut.\" The song was in the top 10 karaoke selections in 2009, 2010, and 2011.\n\nAll of the songs have ranked in the top 25 of the Oricon Weekly Charts after they had been released. The original version of the single (paired with another song by Takahashi) stayed on the charts for 22 weeks, peaking at #27. However, the version paired with 's rendition of \"Fly Me to the Moon\" remained on the charts for 61 weeks after its release, and peaked at #17. When this version of the single was re-released in 2003, it remained on the charts for 41 weeks, peaking at #9. Takahashi's \"2009 VERSION\" release stayed on the charts for 14 weeks, peaking at #22.\n\nOver the years, the song has become a hit on digital download stores. In February 2014, it received a Million certification from the Recording Industry Association of Japan, for more than a million copies sold through cellphone and PC download platforms.\n\nThe Ashinoko Skyline, a private toll road in the city of Hakone plays A Cruel Angel's Thesis when driven over at a constant speed. The music is created from the vehicle's tires due to specially built tarmac surface.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nSince the song's initial release, many artists have covered the song. Heavy metal cover bands Animetal and EIZO Japan included the track on their albums \"Animetal Marathon V\" and \"EIZO Japan 2\" respectively. Versions by cast members Megumi Hayashibara (Rei Ayanami), Yūko Miyamura (Asuka Langley Soryu), Kotono Mitsuishi (Misato Katsuragi), and Megumi Ogata (Shinji Ikari) exist on various soundtracks and solo albums from the voice actors. Masami Okui included a cover on her cover album \"Masami Kobushi\", and otaku tarento Shoko Nakagawa has a cover version on her first anime theme cover album \"Shoko-tan Cover: Anison ni Koi o Shite.\". A trance remix is included on the Exit Trance album \"Exit Trance Presents R25 Speed Anime Trance Best 2\", sung by \"MAKI\". m.o.v.e also has a cover version of the song in their album \"anim.o.v.e 02 .\"\n\nSeveral dance cover remixes have appeared on the \"Dancemania\" compilations.\n\n! scope=\"row\"| Japan (RIAJ)\n! scope=\"row\"| Japan (RIAJ)\n! scope=\"row\"| Japan (RIAJ)\n! scope=\"row\"| Japan (RIAJ)\n! scope=\"row\"| Japan (RIAJ)\n! scope=\"row\"| Japan (RIAJ)\n! scope=\"row\"| Japan (RIAJ)\n! scope=\"row\"| Japan (RIAJ)\n\n"}
{"id": "2071765", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2071765", "title": "Visual arts education", "text": "Visual arts education\n\nVisual arts education is the area of learning that is based upon only the kind of art that one can see, visual arts—drawing, painting, sculpture, printmaking, and design in jewelry, pottery, weaving, fabrics, etc. and design applied to more practical fields such as commercial graphics and home furnishings. Contemporary topics include photography, video, film, design, and computer art. Art education may focus on students creating art, on learning to criticize or appreciate art, or some combination of the two.\n\nArt is often taught through drawing, painting, sculpture, installation, and mark making. Drawing is viewed as an empirical activity which involves seeing, interpreting and discovering appropriate marks to reproduce an observed phenomenon. Drawing instruction has been a component of formal education in the West since the Hellenistic period. In East Asia, arts education for nonprofessional artists typically focused on brushwork; calligraphy was numbered among the Six Arts of gentlemen in the Chinese Zhou Dynasty, and calligraphy and Chinese painting were numbered among the Four Arts of scholar-officials in imperial China.\n\nAn alternative approach to art education involves an emphasis on imagination, both in interpreting and creating art. It is also about experimentation and purposeful play and linking their art to conceptual messages and personal experiences. Alternative approaches, such as visual culture and issue-based approaches in which students explore societal and personal issues through art, also inform art education today.\n\nProminent curricular models for art education include:\n\nIn addition, especially in higher education in the liberal arts tradition, art is often taught as \"art appreciation\", a subject for aesthetic criticism rather than direct engagement.\n\nSome studies show that strong art education programs have demonstrated increased student performance in other academic areas, due to art activities' exercising their brains' right hemispheres and delateralizing their thinking. Also see Betty Edwards' \"Drawing on the Right Side of the Brain\".\n\nArt education is not limited to formal educational institutions. Some professional artists provide private or semi-private instruction in their own studios. This may take the form of an apprenticeship in which the student learns from a professional artist while assisting the artist with their work. One form of this teaching style is the Atelier Method as exemplified by Gustave Moreau who taught Picasso, Braque and many other artists.\n\nHistorically art was taught in Europe via the atelier method system where artists took on apprentices who learned their trade in much the same way as that of guilds such as the stonemasons or goldsmiths. During their free time formal training took place in art workshops or, more often, in homes or alone outside. It was in these ateliers that artists learned the craft through apprenticeship to masters, a relationship that was controlled by guild statutes. Florentine contracts dating from the late 13th century state that the master was expected to clothe and feed the apprentice, who was called upon to be a faithful servant in return. An apprentice often paid the master during the early years of his education; assuming the apprenticeship was productive, the student would be compensated later in his training. Northern European workshops featured similar terms.\n\nInitially, learning to draw was a priority in this system. Michelangelo recommended that a young painter spend a year on drawing alone, then six years grinding colors, preparing panels and using gold leaf, during which time the study of drawing would continue. Another six years would be required to master fresco and tempera painting.\n\nHistorically, design has had some precedence over the fine arts with schools of design being established all over Europe in the 18th century. These examples of skill and values from the early European art inspired later generations, including the Colonists of early America.\n\nIndividuals who employ cultural appropriation have the ability to produce works of considerable aesthetic merit. Using properties of art from different cultures such as decoration or emulation of creative process can foster a greater understanding and appreciation of crafts from different cultures. This technique can be appreciated in the production of African or Native-American mask making projects, where students emulate technique and explore new material use and construction methods which esteem those practices of different cultures.\n\nLeading country in the development of the arts in Latin America, in 1875 created the National Society of the Stimulus of the Arts, founded by painters Eduardo Schiaffino, Eduardo Sívori, and other artists. Their guild was rechartered as the National Academy of Fine Arts in 1905 and, in 1923, on the initiative of painter and academic Ernesto de la Cárcova, as a department in the University of Buenos Aires, the Superior Art School of the Nation. Currently, the leading educational organization for the arts in the country is the UNA Universidad Nacional de las Artes.\n\nAustralian Universities which have Visual / Fine Art departments or courses within their institutions have moved from Studio Based teaching models, associated with Art Schools, to more integrated theoretical / practical emphasis. University of Western Australia has moved from a master's degree with theoretical emphasis to a theoretical BA Art degree.\n\nStudio based teaching initiatives integrating contextual and media elements have been implemented as part of a national Studio Teaching Project supported by the Australian Learning and Teaching Council (ALTC) since 2007.\n\nThe first modern art school in Egypt was opened in 1908 as the Cairo College of Fine Arts. These early art schools largely taught the Western aesthetic traditions. As a result, after independence there was an effort to incorporate Egyptian and Middle Eastern traditions into art and art appreciation courses. However, the process was slow; students at Cairo College of Fine Arts were not able to major in non-European art history until 1999.\n\nArt schools were established in Italy as early as the 13th century, starting with a painting school in Venice founded by a Greek painter named Theophanes around 1200.\n\nThe Dutch Art Teachers Association (Nederlandse Vereniging voor Tekenonderwijs) was founded in 1880 and began to publish a monthly magazine in 1884. Since the late 20th century, the growing diversity of Dutch society has made Dutch art and art education increasingly multicultural.\n\nFormal art education emerged in the United Kingdom in the early 19th century, motivated in part by a desire to match the quality of design work being done in France. The model initially adopted was that of the German commercial schools. Prince Albert was particularly influential in the creation of schools of Art in the UK.\n\nCurrently in the UK, the art curriculum is prescribed by the government's National Curriculum except in public or fee paying schools. Prince Charles has created The Prince's Drawing School in Hoxton to preserve the teaching of academic drawing.\n\nThe study of art appreciation in America began with the Artists of Today Movement in the late 19th century and began to fade at the end of the 1920s. Picture study was an important part of the art education curriculum. Attention to the aesthetics in classrooms led to public interest in beautifying the school, home, and community, which was known as “Art in Daily Living”. The idea was to bring culture to the child to change the parents. The picture study movement died out at the end of the 1920s as a result of new ideas regarding learning art appreciation through studio work became more popular in the United States.\n\nAmerican educational philosopher and school reformer John Dewey was influential in broadening access to art education in the United States in the late 19th and early 20th century.\n\nSince World War II, artist training has moved to elementary schools, and contemporary art has become an increasingly academic and intellectual field. Prior to World War II an artist did not usually need a college degree. Since that time the Bachelor of Fine Arts and then the Master of Fine Arts became recommended degrees to be a professional artist, facilitated by the passage of the G.I. Bill in 1944, which sent a wave of World War II veterans off to school, art school included. University art departments quickly expanded. American artists who might once have studied at bohemian, craft-intensive schools like the Art Students League, Black Mountain College, or the Hans Hofmann School of Art in Greenwich Village; began enrolling at universities instead. By the 60s, The School of Visual Arts, Pratt Institute, and Cooper Union in New York City and other art schools across the country like the Kansas City Art Institute, the San Francisco Art Institute, the School of the Art Institute of Chicago, the School of the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, Princeton and Yale had become one of the first art academies. This trend spread from the United States around the world.\n\nEnrollment in art classes at the high school level peaked in the late 1960s—early 1970s. With No Child Left Behind (NCLB) (which retains the arts as part of the \"daily life\", but does not require reporting or assessment data on this area) there has been additional decline of arts education in American public schools. The United States Department of Education now awards Arts in Education Model Development and Dissemination grants to support organizations with art expertise in their development of artistic curricula. After 2010, an estimate of 25% of the nation's public high schools will end all art programs. Various \"ed-tech\" companies like Kadenze and edX have attempted to mitigate this loss through online arts education.\n\nNational organizations promoting arts education include Americans for the Arts including \"Art. Ask For More.\", its national arts education public awareness campaign; Association for the Advancement of Arts Education; Arts Education Partnership.;\n\nProfessional organizations for art educators include the National Art Education Association, which publishes the practitioner-friendly journal \"Art Education\" and the research journal \"Studies in Art Education\"; USSEA (the United States Society for Education through Art) and InSEA (the International Society for Education through Art).\n\nEducation through the visual arts is an important and effective influence in allowing students, from an early age, to comprehend and implement the foundational democratic process emphasized within the United States societal structure.\n\nOlivia Gude, the 2009 recipient of the National Art Education Association’s Lowenfeld Lecture Scholarship, spoke about the numerous ways in which art education is instrumental in forming an informed self- and world-aware citizen. She asserts that:\n\nArt education was combined with special education even before there were reforms to create special accommodations for children with special needs in typical classrooms. When it comes to art, art therapists are often used to connect with students with special needs. However, some art therapists pull students out of the classroom, causing them to fall behind in their other schoolwork such as math, English, and science. Because of this, art therapy is reserved for students who do not have much chance for long-term improvements, but rather short-term developmental skills, or for those who seek to increase their all-round capabilities.\n\nSpecial educator Jean Lokerson and art educator Amelia Jones wrote that “the art room is a place where learning disabilities can turn into learning assets.” Special needs students often come out of their shells and get enthusiastic about creating. Art is also a way that special educators teach their students fundamentals that they may not even realize.\n\nThere are ongoing studies that continue to prove that art and special education go hand in hand. Testing continues to prove that art in any classroom, but especially special education classrooms causes students to be motivated, enthusiastic, and in some cases, even promote learning in other subject areas.\n\nThe domain of art education is broadening to include a wider range of visual and popular culture. Current trends in scholarship employ postmodern and visual culture approaches to art education, consider effects of globalism on the production and interpretation of images and focus renewed interest on issues of creativity. Within the NAEA, research and publications are being geared toward issues of learning, community, advocacy, research and knowledge. Since 2016, the Art Education Research Institute (AERI) has held an annual symposium that supports critical, systematic, empirical, and theoretical research and scholarship that addresses key intellectual and practical issues in the field of art education. AERI seeks to promote a broad range of rigorous research practices and methodologies drawn from the arts, humanities, and social sciences to improve inquiry related to teaching and learning in and through the visual arts.\n\nA/r/t/ography is a method of inquiring about one’s teaching practice within an art classroom (Irwin & Springgay, 2008). It integrates theory into teaching practice and sees the class as a living organism which is susceptible to change (Irwin & Springgay,2008). Rita Irwin and Stephanie Springgay (2008), Art Education theorists and faculty at the University of British Columbia explain that a/r/t/ography focuses on the in-between of art-making, researching and teaching and is perceived as not an environment or object but as a process of learning for the teacher and their students. \n\nIrwin, R. L. & Springgay, S. (2008). A/r/tography as practice-based research. In Stephanie\nSpringgay, Rita L. Irwin, Carl Leggo & Peter Gouzouasis (Eds.). Being with A/r/tography\n(pp. xiii–xxvii). Rotterdam, The Netherlands: Sense Publishers. Reprinted with permission\nof Sense Publishers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2071770", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2071770", "title": "Remote Control (The Clash song)", "text": "Remote Control (The Clash song)\n\n\"Remote Control\" is a song by The Clash, featured on their debut album, and is written against oppression and conformity.\n\nThe song was written by Mick Jones after the disastrous Anarchy Tour and contains pointed observations about the civic hall bureaucrats who had cancelled concerts, the police, big business and especially record companies. The song mentions a 'meeting in Mayfair' which is thought to refer to the EMI shareholders' meeting held on 7 December 1976, which effectively withdrew all support for the Anarchy Tour. Also alluded to in the song are the 'old-boy' peerage networks and hapless politicians.\n\nWriting for the A.V. Club, Jason Heller said that the song \"imagines a deliberately, dramatically exaggerated England circa 1977, one where urban claustrophobia, totalitarian authority, and a robotic kind of daily routine\".\n\nThe band virtually disowned the song, following their record label CBS's decision to release the song as a single without consulting the band. The band had already told \"Melody Maker\" magazine that their next single would be \"Janie Jones\", and were irate that CBS had undermined them and made a decision to release \"Remote Control\" instead without the band's permission. To the band, the song became a symbol of everything they were fighting against. The incident was referred to in the first lines of a later song, \"Complete Control\", which is on the 1979 US release of the album:\n\nThe B-side is a mono live version of \"London's Burning\".\n\nThe band re-recorded the song in early summer 1979 during rehearsals for \"London Calling\", at Vanilla Studios in Vauxhall. This version was eventually released in 2004, on the second disc of the \"London Calling: 25th Anniversary Legacy Edition\", known as \"The Vanilla Tapes\". In the liner notes, Mick Jones is quoted as saying: \n\n"}
{"id": "2071780", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2071780", "title": "Alpha-Bits", "text": "Alpha-Bits\n\nAlpha-Bits, also known as Frosted Alpha-Bits, is a breakfast cereal made by Post Foods, which contains frosted alphabet-shaped multi-grain (whole-grain oat and corn flour) cereal bits. Post Cereals also started producing Marshmallow Alpha-Bits in 1990.\n\nAlpha-Bits cereal was invented by a father of seven named Thomas M. Quigley who worked for Post Cereals. The cereal was introduced in 1958 and was taken off the market in 2006. However, Alpha-Bits reappeared for sale in January 2008 with a new formulation, touting \"0% Sugar!\" as a \"Limited Edition\" cereal. The old recipe was reintroduced later in 2008. The cereal was substantially reformulated in 2017, with the \"new and improved\" Alpha-Bits having larger shapes than its predecessor.\n\nMarshmallow Alpha-Bits, introduced in 1990, contained frosted alphabet-shaped corn cereal bits and marshmallows. This variation of the original Alpha-Bits cereal contained marshmallow vowels: pink A's, yellow E's, purple I's, orange O's, green U's, and, later, blue Y's. Over time, the marshmallows underwent changes such as super-swirls and splits in their colors. Beginning in 2004, Marshmallow Alpha-Bits began disappearing from various markets, before finally being discontinued altogether in 2011.\n\nMarshmallow Alpha-Bits were invented by a small-time entrepreneur named Andrew R. Miller and his cousin Andrew W. Peterson, the latter of whom was a chef at a local restaurant in upstate New York. The pair sold the idea to Post in 1989. \n\nIn August 2005, Post Cereals introduced sugar-free Alpha-Bits cereal .\n\nIn some regions, such as the southeast, Marshmallow Alpha-Bits were removed from shelves by 2000.\n\nOne of the first characters to ever advertise the cereal was \"Ruff and Reddy\" in 1957. Alvin and the Chipmunks were also early pitchers for Alpha-Bits, as Post's then-parent General Foods was the sponsor of \"The Alvin Show\" for its sole season beginning in 1961.\n\nBeginning in 1964, the mascot for Alpha-Bits was a postman, possibly a pun on \"Post Man\" named Loveable Truly, who was originally voiced by insult comic Jack E. Leonard in a Southern accent. Loveable Truly was also a character in the 1960s cartoon show \"Linus the Lionhearted\" on CBS, along with other Post Cereals mascots at the time (including Sugar Bear of Golden Crisp, then called Sugar Crisp).\n\nSince then, mascots have included the Alpha-Bits Wizard, who appeared near children in kitchens.\n\nIn Canada, the last Alpha-Bits mascot was Alpha, a computer who \"makes bits\". As of 2014, he has been discontinued. The Canadian Alpha at first resembled IBM PCs, but recent versions resemble a 2006 iMac.\n\nIn the 1980s there was yet another mascot named Alfie the Alpha-Bits Cereal Wonder Dog. Michael Jackson and The Jackson 5 starred in a series of Alpha-Bits musical TV commercials in 1973. In the 1990s the mascots are the anthropomorphic cereal bits.\n\nPost Alpha-Bits cereal was also a sponsor of \"Arthur\" on PBS. The TV show \"Super Why!\" currently mascots and endorses this cereal.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2071781", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2071781", "title": "The Gumball Rally", "text": "The Gumball Rally\n\nThe Gumball Rally is a 1976 American comedy film directed and co-written by Charles Bail, a former stunt coordinator also known as Chuck Bail, about an illicit coast-to-coast road race. It was inspired by the Cannonball Baker Sea-To-Shining-Sea Memorial Trophy Dash run by Brock Yates, which inspired several other films, including \"Cannonball\" (1976), \"Cannonball Run\" (1981), and \"Speed Zone\" (1989), as well as an actual event, the American Gumball Rally and Gumball 3000 international race.\n\nMichael Bannon (Michael Sarrazin), a wealthy but bored businessman and candymaker, issues the code word \"Gumball\" to his fellow automobile enthusiasts, who gather in a garage in New York City to embark on a coast-to-coast race \"with no catalytic converter and no 55-mile-per-hour speed limit,\" in the shortest amount of time. There is only one rule: \"There \"are\" no rules.\"\n\nTheir longtime nemesis, LAPD Lieutenant Roscoe (Normann Burton), also learns of the race (no explanation of how he learns of it is provided). Most of the film is devoted to the adventures of the various driving teams and Roscoe's ineffectual attempts to apprehend them.\n\nA number of running gags ensue – the Jaguar that will not start; the silent Lapchik's (Harvey Jason) numerous mishaps; Italian race driver Franco Bertollini's (Raúl Juliá) frequent detours to seduce beautiful women – as well as some stunts and driving sequences. The race ends at the \"Queen Mary\" in Long Beach, California where the finishers celebrate their adventures and the defeated Roscoe sulks off to one side – until a fleet of police cars and tow trucks, summoned by Roscoe, arrive to impound the Gumball vehicles. Roscoe had contrived to see to it that all of them were guaranteed to be illegally parked once the post-race party in the parking lot ran past 11 PM.\n\nBannon congratulates Roscoe on his final victory (final because Roscoe, who has been after Bannon and Smith since they were in high school, has reached mandatory retirement age) and again utters the command \"Gumball\" to initiate a race back to New York. Lapchik finished last and crashed in the water.\n\n\n\nMost of the filming took place in Arizona. Opening scenes of the race were filmed in downtown New York City early on a Sunday morning on closed roads (including Broadway and Park Avenue.) The George Washington Bridge and Lincoln Tunnel was used for the exit from New York into New Jersey. The final duel between the Cobra and Ferrari was filmed at (and in) the Los Angeles River and the closing scene was shot at the \"Queen Mary\" in Long Beach. Additional filming was done in the City of Orange, specifically around the circle or Plaza area (approximately 1:07 - 1:10)\n\nThe spirit of the Gumball Rally has inspired road rally enthusiasts to create local versions of the Gumball in individual states. There are annual Gumball Rallies in Michigan, Florida, and California. The rules of these races are more stratified than the movie, and speeding or demented driving is discouraged. But anyone who can afford the comparatively modest entry fee and acquire sponsors can enter any sort of vehicle in the competition. Like a road rally, the state Gumballers have to pass through checkpoints over the course of the race, which runs for an entire weekend. There is an elaborate formula not known to the competitors for determining the winner of the Rally. Part of the Rally's mission seems to be to promote state attractions and businesses, but the idea still seems to be having a great deal of fun while doing so.\n\nAn international version of the Gumball called the Gumball 3000 was created by a Briton, Maximillion Cooper, as a 3000-mile race through multiple countries. How one enters and what the rules may be are not clear, though it appears checkpoints are involved. However, most of the drivers appear to be celebrities of various sorts, and the entry fees are rumored to be substantial. The Rally often partners with charities such as the Wounded Warrior Project as a fundraising event. The one thing that the Gumball 3000 has in common with the original Gumball Rally is that any sort of vehicle can be entered. Past entries have included a Blower Bentley, a 1965 Aston Martin DB5, a Winnebago RV, and an ex-New York Police Department Ford Crown Victoria in NYPD livery. Prizes are awarded for best time, most original car, for special actions during the race, and to whoever best exemplifies the good-hearted spirit of the event, the coveted \"Gumball Spirit Trophy.\"\n\nIn the United States, a similar event is held under the name American Gumball Rally and is usually confined to the borders of the state in which the event is held. The founder Randy Kolher, is a Detroit Motorcity native who wanted to host event to bring people together. Much like the Gumball 3000, the American Gumball Rally has vehicles from varying manufacturers, with no set limits. Entry fees are much more affordable, yet the fun level is equally set for entry level to seasoned participants. This rally has remained open to individual, as well as corporate sponsors, and has quickly gained a cult following. With safety being a top priority of the founder, The American Gumball Rally has also gained the unofficial support of the state authorities, as the rally likes to Set the example for having fun while also following the rules of the road. StreetCulture.US founder on Instagram and Youtube G.E. Spencer has been a big promoter of the rally as well as its growth since his participation in 2016, sharing the rally's availability with fellow auto enthusiasts at cruise ins and car meets all over the east coast.\n\nIn 2010, a rally similar in concept to the Gumball 3000 but confined to the State of Texas called the Texas Outlaw Run was conducted. As of 2013, it has not been repeated.\n\nAt Disneyland and Disney World, once a year Disney fans hold what is called the MiceChat Gumball Rally. The objective is simple: to ride as many rides in Disneyland as possible in a single day. The winning teams are presented with medals and have bragging rights forever after; and the grand prize is a gumball machine topped by Cinderella's Castle, obviously inspired by the movie's Gumball Trophy.\n\nAs noted above, \"The Gumball Rally\" ushered in a subgenre of road-race films, many of them starring a younger Burt Reynolds, one of whose more popular films, \"Smokey and the Bandit\", spawned a still-ongoing yearly rally event called The Bandit Run.\n\n"}
{"id": "2071784", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2071784", "title": "Shakespearean dance", "text": "Shakespearean dance\n\nShakespearean Dance refers to dancing in the time and plays of William Shakespeare and his contemporaries.\n\nThere are references to dances such as the galliard or sinkapace, volta, coranto, pavane, and canario, and stage directions indicate dancing in many plays including \"Romeo and Juliet\", \"Much Ado About Nothing\", \"Twelfth Night, or What You Will\", \"Macbeth\", and \"As You Like It\". Terms like 'measure' and 'foot it' can also refer to dancing, and dance is often woven into the plot as part of a masque or masquerade ball, especially in plays by John Marston.\n\nThere is no known dancing instruction manual for English dances of Shakespeare's time, but there are descriptions of almains and the measures in the Inns of Court manuscripts (see Payne), mentions of Morris dance in church court and civic records (see Forrest), and large sections of dancing in court masques (see Ravelhofer and Welsford). Other dances referred to in English Renaissance plays such as the galliard, pavane, and volta are described in French and Italian dancing manuals by Thoinot Arbeau and Fabritio Caroso among others. Some of the country dances Shakespeare mentions appear in John Playford's \"The English Dancing Master\" (1651), but Playford's choreographies probably differ from the versions performed on the Shakespearean stage.\n\nJigs often followed performances of plays in late sixteenth- and early seventeenth-century England, but we know very little about the actual steps of this dance (see Baskerville).\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2071789", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2071789", "title": "Luzerner Zeitung", "text": "Luzerner Zeitung\n\nLuzerner Zeitung (LZ) is a Swiss German-language daily newspaper, published in Lucerne.\n\n\"Luzerner Zeitung\" was created in 1996 through the merger of \"Luzerner Zeitung\" (\"LZ\") and \"Luzerner Neuste Nachrichten\" (\"LNN\"). \"Luzerner Zeitung\" (1991–1996) had replaced the two daily newspapers \"Luzerner Tagblatt\" and \"Vaterland\". The paper is owned by AG für die Neue Zürcher Zeitung which also owns \"Neue Zürcher Zeitung\" and \"St. Galler Tagblatt\". Its editor-in-chief is Thomas Bornhauser.\n\nThe newspaper is published in six regional editions:\n\nIn 1997 \"Neue Luzerner Zeitung\" had a circulation of 131,761 copies. Its circulation was 133,000 copies in 2003. According to WEMF AG, , the newspaper had a certified distribution of 134,526 copies and a readership of 290,000. The 2006 circulation of the paper was 131,004 copies. It was 127,244 copies in 2009.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2071798", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2071798", "title": "Get Your Own Back", "text": "Get Your Own Back\n\nGet Your Own Back is a British children's television game show created by Brian Marshall. Each episode staged a contest between teams of children – attempting to score as many points as possible – and their respective adults – attempting to make tasks as difficult as possible for their child contestants – playing a variety of games. The winning child earns a right to get revenge on the adult by ejecting them into a tank of gunge; adult contestants in the show are somewhat embarrassing, for a variety of reasons, to their child counterparts.\n\nAiring on BBC One's children's television block, it ran from 26 September 1991 to 1 January 2004, and was hosted by Dave Benson Phillips. Lisa Brockwell also presented the final three series of the show alongside Phillips, and Peter Simon served the role of voice over in 1995.\n\nThe show consisted of two teams (the first series had three), each comprising one child contestant and a parent/relative/older sibling/teacher/celebrity who in the child's eyes had committed some sort of crime that they wanted to seek revenge for. These 'crimes' were usually trivial, such as singing badly or asking the child to tidy their room.\n\nDave and the audience always showed bias against the adults by booing the oppressed as much as possible. The games were always designed to make things difficult or unpleasant for the adults. They often had them dressed in embarrassing costumes.\n\nThroughout every series the final round was called the \"Gunk Dunk\", where the losing adult was always thrown into a pool of colourful, messy gunge.\n\nThe first series theme and studio was that of a basic cartoony house. This is also the only series with three teams (red, blue and green), and it was also the only series with a green team.\n\nIn round 1, called \"Brain Box\", the adults played a game where they scored points by answering questions from a topic the child chose using a carnival game. Round 2 was called \"Chumps Challenge\", where the remaining adults played another game (either a video game, an obstacle race with the child, or a karaoke performance). The loser of this round (scores did not carry over from the Brain Box round) went to the final round, the Gunk Dunk.\n\nIn the Gunk Dunk, the theme was a small cartoony dungeon with a yellow and black colour scheme, and the adult and child sat over a bubbling cauldron. The adult would get the child dunked into the cauldron if they answered five correct answers in under 45 seconds without using answers beginning with a particular letter (which all questions had obvious answers to). Failure (or eventually otherwise, despite Dave's assurance that winning would spare them) resulted in the adult being dropped in.\n\nThe 1992 series was the first of the fairground themed shows, The number of teams was reduced to two (red and yellow). Brain Box was played again as the first round, with the Chumps Challenge round always being an obstacle race. This time the adult's scores in the rounds were added together. The winning adult got the \"key to freedom\" and left clean, with the loser being sent to the Gunk Dunk.\n\nThe Gunk Dunk in this era had a darker ghost train theme, and had the same game as the original, but the child got gunged in the booth where the lever was rather the gunk dunk itself. The adult sat over a gunge tank, and would be thrown in regardless of whether they won or not, despite Dave stating otherwise.\n\nIn series 4, a third puzzle round called \"Puzzle Time\" (either a maze or 3-D jigsaw) was played as well, where the adult and child in opposite colours played together to win points for the adult. This series had 2 \"knock-down bonus\" rounds added after the first 2 rounds, where the child played games to deduct the adult's scores.\n\nIn 1995, the teams were changed to red and blue. There was also a change where the child with the highest score (instead of the adult like previously) got to put the adult into the Gunk Dunk. This time, the Gunk Dunk matched the lighter fairground theme and was no longer hidden in another part of the studio.\n\nThe Gunk Dunk game also changed in 1995 as the grown up would be asked three questions, with a different colour of slime being poured over them for each wrong answer. However, they were always thrown into the tank regardless.\n\nIn 1996 the show received a complete makeover and had a production upgrade as the show was pulling in successful ratings for CBBC. The fairground theme used since 1992 was replaced with a stadium theme along with new music and logo to match the \"Cool Britannia\" era of the 1990s. This series also changed the colours of the teams to yellow and blue.\n\nFive rounds were played before the Gunk Dunk, with round 5 usually being a double points round. The Gunk Dunk was changed so adults were moved further from the gunge for each answer they got wrong, making their drop feature more tense.\n\nIn 2000, the winning child was given an opportunity to win a grand prize by picking between two switches, with the other releasing gunge on them and not receiving the prize.\n\nPrior to filming of Series 9, the show held a contest where children submitted games ideas to be used on the show. One winning game idea was chosen for each episode of the series to be played. The child with the winning selection was invited into the studio to explain their game idea to Dave, who also awarded each contest winner a small bonus prize. Dave would also select some honourable mentions each episode and explain their game ideas.\n\nLisa Brockwell was introduced as a co-host. The number of rounds before the Gunk Dunk was reduced to four, but changed back to five rounds in the final series.\n\nThe Gunk Dunk was changed so that both adults sat above the gunge tank with the winning child from the games being given a one notch head start (or, if the winning margin was 60 points or more, a two notch head start). If the scores were tied, no head start was awarded. Dave would ask the children some questions on the buzzer and every question that was answered correctly allowed the child to move their adult up one notch. The first child who got their adult to the fifth and highest notch got to gunge their adult by pulling a lever next to them.\n\n"}
{"id": "2071804", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2071804", "title": "Mel Ignatow", "text": "Mel Ignatow\n\nMelvin Henry Ignatow (March 26, 1938 – September 1, 2008) was a resident of Louisville, Kentucky, U.S., who was tried for the murder of his former girlfriend, Brenda Sue Schaefer, in 1988. The case was controversial because Ignatow was acquitted of the charge and he later admitted killing Schaefer. Under the legal principle of double jeopardy, however, Ignatow could not be tried a second time for the murder. He was, instead, convicted and jailed for several instances of perjury in his grand jury testimony for the case.\n\nIgnatow and Brenda Schaefer had been in a relationship for two years at the time of the murder. Ignatow knew that Schaefer, who had complained that he was abusive, was planning to break off the involvement. He asked a former girlfriend, Mary Ann Shore, to help him plan and carry out the murder. They spent several weeks making extensive preparations. Shore testified they had \"scream tested\" her house and dug a grave in the woods behind it.\n\nOn September 23, 1988, Schaefer met Ignatow to return some jewelry of his that she had in her possession. Instead, Ignatow took Schaefer to Shore's house, where he pulled a gun on Schaefer and locked her in the house. Schaefer was blindfolded, gagged, and bound. Ignatow forced Schaefer to strip, photographed her in suggestive positions, raped, sodomized and beat her before killing her with chloroform. Shore took pictures while Ignatow raped and tortured Schaefer and assisted Ignatow in covering up the murder. They buried her behind Shore's house. He took Schaefer's jewelry and the exposed film.\n\nAfter Schaefer's disappearance, police quickly suspected Ignatow, but were unable to locate any witnesses or physical evidence linking him to Schaefer's disappearance, or even to locate Schaefer's body. In search for any lead that could let them move forward with the case, police invited Ignatow to clear his name by testifying before a grand jury. There, he mentioned Shore's name, bringing her into the investigation for the first time. The police interviewed Shore, who eventually confessed to helping plan the murder, and to taking pictures of Ignatow as he tortured and abused Schaefer. Shore also led the investigators to the grave site, where Schaefer's badly decomposed body had been buried for over a year. The autopsy showed she had been abused, but any DNA evidence, from blood and semen, had decomposed.\n\nThe investigators convinced Shore to wear a wire, by promising only to charge her with tampering with evidence. In the surveillance, Shore told Ignatow that the FBI was hounding her and she was afraid the property behind her house was being sold and developed. He was on tape berating her for letting the FBI \"rattle\" her and told her he didn't care if they dug up the whole property because \"that place we dug is not shallow.\"\n\nBased on this recording, prosecutors charged Ignatow with murder in 1991. The trial was moved outside the Louisville/Jefferson County area, to Kenton County where far less publicity had been generated. In one section of the recorded conversation between Ignatow and Shore, in which Ignatow stated, \"That place we dug is not shallow. Beside that one area right by where that site is does not have any trees by it,\" the jury decided that Ignatow said \"safe,\" not \"site,\" as police believed. This led the jurors to conclude that the discussion involved a buried safe. Furthermore, Shore, the prosecution's star witness, wore a tiny miniskirt to court and laughed during her testimony, undermining her credibility in the eyes of the jury. The defense argued that Shore, not Ignatow, had killed Schaefer.\n\nThe jury acquitted Ignatow. The judge was so embarrassed by the verdict that he took the unusual step of writing a letter of apology to the Schaefer family. Schaefer's parents died before the trial began. According to some family and friends, their deaths were premature due to the heartbreak and stress of Schaefer's murder.\n\nSix months after Ignatow's acquittal, a carpetlayer working in Ignatow's old house, which had been sold to fund his defense, pulled up a length of carpet in a hallway. Under it he found a floor vent containing a plastic bag, taped to hold it inside the vent. Inside the bag was the jewelry Schaefer had taken with her on the night of her disappearance, and three rolls of undeveloped film. When developed, the film showed Ignatow torturing and raping Schaefer, just as Shore had described. Ignatow's face was not in the pictures, but body hair patterns and moles matched him perfectly.\n\nIgnatow was brought to trial for perjury based on his grand jury testimony. Knowing that he could not be retried for the murder because of double jeopardy, Ignatow confessed in court at his perjury trial. He turned to Schaefer's brothers in court and said that he had killed her, but claimed that she had died peacefully.\n\nIgnatow served five years of an eight-year sentence for perjury. The state later prosecuted him on perjury charges for testimony he gave in a case against Schaefer's employer for threatening to kill Ignatow if he did not reveal where Schaefer was. He was sentenced to nine years for that perjury charge. Ignatow was released from prison for the second time in December 2006. He returned to Louisville, living in a home four miles from the house where he murdered Schaefer.\n\nAuthor Bob Hill wrote a book on the case called \"Double Jeopardy\", which became a bestseller and provoked widespread interest in the case. MSNBC and CourtTV also produced television documentaries on the case.\n\nBrenda Sue Schaefer is buried in her family's plot in Cave Hill Cemetery in Louisville.\n\nOn September 1, 2008, Ignatow was found dead in his home. He was 70 years old. An autopsy determined that Ignatow died from an accidental fall that lacerated his head or his arm, and that he had eventually bled to death. The neighbor who found his body stated that \"It just looked like he had fell... and he tried to go to the kitchen, and there was a blood trail that way, and then it looked like he tried to make it to his room, before he made it to his room, that's where they found his body at.\"\n\nIgnatow's neighbor also described him as \"a sick and elderly man, alone and struggling for help when he apparently stumbled to his death. I used to hear him all night, asking for Jesus to come get him, because he was in a lot of pain.\" Ignatow's son admits, \"He will probably go down as one of the most hated men in Louisville... Maybe it'll just put it to rest, that we all don't have to keep dealing with this over and over. That's what I hope.\"\n\nThe television series \"American Justice\" aired the death of Brenda Schaefer titled \"Getting Away with Murder\", season 9, episode 7 original air date March 15, 2000.\n"}
{"id": "2071836", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2071836", "title": "Siege of Fort William Henry", "text": "Siege of Fort William Henry\n\nThe Siege of Fort William Henry was conducted in August 1757 by French General Louis-Joseph de Montcalm against the British-held Fort William Henry. The fort, located at the southern end of Lake George, on the frontier between the British Province of New York and the French Province of Canada, was garrisoned by a poorly supported force of British regulars and provincial militia led by Lieutenant Colonel George Monro. After several days of bombardment, Monro surrendered to Montcalm, whose force included nearly 2,000 Indians from various tribes. The terms of surrender included the withdrawal of the garrison to Fort Edward, with specific terms that the French military protect the British from the Indians as they withdrew from the area.\n\nIn one of the most notorious incidents of the French and Indian War, Montcalm's Indian allies violated the agreed terms of surrender and attacked the British column, which had been deprived of ammunition, as it left the fort. They killed and scalped many soldiers, took as captives women, children, servants, and slaves, and slaughtered sick and wounded prisoners. Early accounts of the events called it a massacre and implied that as many as 1,500 people were killed, although it is unlikely more than 200 people (less than 10% of the British fighting strength) were actually killed in the massacre.\n\nThe exact role of Montcalm and other French leaders in encouraging or defending against the actions of their allies, and the total number of casualties incurred as a result of their actions, is a subject of historical debate. The memory of the killings influenced the actions of British military leaders, especially those of British General Jeffery Amherst, for the remainder of the war.\n\nThe French and Indian War started in 1754 over territorial disputes between the North American colonies of France and Great Britain in areas that are now western Pennsylvania and upstate New York. The first few years of the war had not gone particularly well for the British. A major expedition by General Edward Braddock in 1755 ended in disaster, and British military leaders were unable to mount any campaigns the following year. In a major setback, a French and Indian army led by General Louis-Joseph de Montcalm captured the garrison and destroyed fortifications in the Battle of Fort Oswego in August 1756. In July 1756 the Earl of Loudoun arrived to take command of the British forces in North America, replacing William Shirley, who had temporarily assumed command after Braddock's death.\n\nLoudoun's plan for the 1757 campaign was submitted to the government in London in September 1756, and was focused on a single expedition aimed at the heart of New France, the city of Quebec. It called for a purely defensive postures along the frontier with New France, including the contested corridor of the Hudson River and Lake Champlain between Albany, New York and Montreal. Following the Battle of Lake George in 1755, the French had begun construction of Fort Carillon (now known as Fort Ticonderoga) near the southern end of Lake Champlain, while the British had built Fort William Henry at the southern end of Lake George, and Fort Edward on the Hudson River, about south of Fort William Henry. The area between William Henry and Carillon was a wilderness dominated by Lake George that historian Ian Steele described as \"a military waterway that left opposing cannons only a few days apart.\"\nLoudoun's plan depended on the expedition's timely arrival at Quebec, so that French troops would not have the opportunity to move against targets on the frontier, and would instead be needed to defend the heartland of the province of Canada along the Saint Lawrence River. However, political turmoil in London over the progress of the Seven Years' War both in North America and in Europe resulted in a change of power, with William Pitt the Elder rising to take control over military matters. Loudoun consequently did not receive any feedback from London on his proposed campaign until March 1757. Before this feedback arrived he developed plans for the expedition to Quebec, and worked with the provincial governors of the Thirteen Colonies to develop plans for a coordinated defence of the frontier, including the allotment of militia quotas to each province.\n\nWhen William Pitt's instructions finally reached Loudoun in March 1757, they called for the expedition to first target Louisbourg on the Atlantic coast of Île Royale, now known as Cape Breton Island. Although this did not materially affect the planning of the expedition, it was to have significant consequences on the frontier. The French forces on the Saint Lawrence would be too far from Louisbourg to support it, and would consequently be free to act elsewhere. Loudoun assigned his best troops to the Louisbourg expedition, and placed Brigadier General Daniel Webb in command of the New York frontier. He was given about 2,000 regulars, primarily from the 35th and 60th (Royal American) Regiments. The provinces were to supply Webb with about 5,000 militia.\n\nFollowing the success of his 1756 assault on Fort Oswego, Montcalm had been seeking an opportunity to deal with the British position at Fort William Henry, since it provided the British with a launching point for attacks against Fort Carillon (now known as Fort Ticonderoga). He was initially hesitant to commit his limited resources against Fort William Henry without knowing more about the disposition of British forces. Intelligence provided by spies in London arrived in the spring, indicating that the British target was probably Louisbourg. This suggested that troop levels on the British side of the frontier might be low enough to make an attack on Fort William Henry feasible. This idea was further supported after the French questioned deserters and captives taken during periodic scouting and raiding expeditions that both sides conducted, including one resulting in the January Battle on Snowshoes.\n\nAs early as December 1756, New France's governor, the Marquis de Vaudreuil, began the process of recruiting Indians for the following summer's campaign. Fueled by stories circulated by Indian participants in the capture of Oswego, this drive was highly successful, drawing nearly 1,000 warriors from the \"Pays d'en Haut\" (the more remote regions of New France) to Montreal by June 1757. Another 800 Indians were recruited from tribes that lived closer to the Saint Lawrence.\n\nFort William Henry, built in the fall of 1755, was a roughly square fortification with bastions on the corners, in a design that was intended to repel Indian attacks but was not necessarily sufficient to withstand attack from an enemy that had artillery. Its walls were thick, with log facings surrounding an earthen filling. Inside the fort were wooden barracks two stories high, built around the parade ground. Its magazine was in the northeast bastion, and its hospital was located in the southeast bastion. The fort was surrounded on three sides by a dry moat, with the fourth side sloping down to the lake. The only access to the fort was by a bridge across the moat. The fort was capable of housing only four to five hundred men; additional troops were quartered in an entrenched camp southeast of the fort, near the site of the 1755 Battle of Lake George.\n\nDuring the winter of 1756–57, Fort William Henry was garrisoned by several hundred men from the 44th Foot under Major Will Eyre. In March 1757 the French sent an army of 1,500 to attack the fort under the command of the governor's brother, Pierre de Rigaud. Composed primarily of colonial troupes de la marine, militia, and Indians, and without heavy weapons, they besieged the fort for four days, destroying outbuildings and many watercraft before retreating. Eyre and his men were replaced by Lieutenant Colonel George Monro and the 35th Foot in the spring. Monro established his headquarters in the entrenched camp, where most of his men were located.\n\nThe Indians that assembled at Montreal were sent south to Fort Carillon, where they joined the French regiments of Béarn and Royal Roussillon under François-Charles de Bourlamaque, and those of La Sarre, Guyenne, Languedoc, and la Reine under François de Gaston, Chevalier de Lévis. Combined with the troupes de la marine, militia companies, and the arriving Indians, the force accumulated at Carillon amounted to 8,000 men.\nWhile at Carillon, the French leadership had difficulty controlling the behaviour of its Indian allies. Although they did stop one group from forcing a British prisoner to run the gantlet, a group of Ottawas were not stopped when it was observed that they were ritually cannibalizing another prisoner. French authorities were also frustrated in their ability to limit the Indians' taking of more than their allotted share of rations. Montcalm's aide, Louis Antoine de Bougainville, observed that attempts to curb this activity would have resulted in the loss of some of these forces. In another prelude of things to come, many prisoners were taken on 23 July in the Battle of Sabbath Day Point, some of whom were also ritually cannibalized before Montcalm managed to convince the Indians instead to send the captives to Montreal to be sold as slaves.\n\nWebb, who commanded the area from his base at Fort Edward, received intelligence in April that the French were accumulating resources and troops at Carillon. News of continued French activity arrived with a captive taken in mid-July. Following an attack by Joseph Marin de la Malgue on a work crew near Fort Edward on 23 July, Webb travelled to Fort William Henry with a party of Connecticut rangers led by Major Israel Putnam, and sent a detachment of them onto the lake for reconnaissance. They returned with word that Indians were encamped on islands in the lake about from the fort. Swearing Putnam and his rangers to secrecy, Webb returned to Fort Edward, and on 2 August sent Lieutenant Colonel John Young with 200 regulars and 800 Massachusetts militia to reinforce the garrison at William Henry. This raised the size of the garrison to about 2,500, although several hundred of these were ill, some with smallpox.\n\nWhile Montcalm's Indian allies had already begun to move south, his advance force of French troops departed from Carillon on 30 July under Lévis' command, travelling overland along Lake George's western shore because the expedition did not have enough boats to carry the entire force. Montcalm and the remaining forces sailed the next day, and met with Lévis for the night at Ganaouske Bay. The next night, Lévis camped just from Fort William Henry, with Montcalm not far behind. Early on the morning of 3 August, Lévis and the Canadians blocked the road between Edward and William Henry, skirmishing with the recently arrived Massachusetts militia. Montcalm summoned Monro to surrender at 11:00 am. Monro refused, and sent messengers south to Fort Edward, indicating the dire nature of the situation and requesting reinforcements. Webb, feeling threatened by Lévis, refused to send any of his estimated 1,600 men north, since they were all that stood between the French and Albany. He wrote to Monro on 4 August that he should negotiate the best terms possible; this communication was intercepted and delivered to Montcalm.\n\nMontcalm, in the meantime, ordered Bourlamaque to begin siege operations. The French opened trenches to the northwest of the fort with the objective of bringing their artillery to bear against the fort's northwest bastion. On 5 August, French guns began firing on the fort from , a spectacle the large Indian contingent relished. The next day a second battery opened fire from further along the same trench, creating a crossfire. The effect of the garrison's return fire was limited to driving French guards from the trenches, and some of the fort's guns either were dismounted or burst owing to the stress of use. On 7 August, Montcalm sent Bougainville to the fort under a truce flag to deliver the intercepted dispatch. By then the fort's walls had been breached, many of its guns were useless, and the garrison had taken many casualties. After another day of bombardment by the French, during which their trenches approached another , Monro raised the white flag to open negotiations.\n\nThe terms of surrender were that the British and their camp followers would be allowed to withdraw, under French escort, to Fort Edward, with the full honours of war, on condition that they refrain from fighting for 18 months. They were allowed to keep their muskets and a single symbolic cannon, but no ammunition. In addition, British authorities were to release French prisoners within three months.\n\nMontcalm, before agreeing to these terms, tried to make sure that his Indian allies understood them, and that the chiefs would undertake to restrain their men. This process was complicated by the diversity within the Indian camp, which included some warriors who spoke languages not understood by any European present. The British garrison was then evacuated from the fort to the entrenched camp, and Monro was quartered in the French camp. The Indians then entered the fort and plundered it, butchering some of the wounded and sick that the British had left behind. The French guards posted around the entrenched camp were only somewhat successful at keeping the Indians out of that area, and it took much effort to prevent plunder and scalping there. Montcalm and Monro initially planned to march the prisoners south the following morning, but after seeing the Indian bloodlust, decided to attempt the march that night. When the Indians became aware that the British were getting ready to move, many of them massed around the camp, causing the leaders to call off the march until morning.\n\nThe next morning, even before the British column began to form up for the march to Fort Edward, the Indians renewed attacks on the largely defenceless British. At 5 am, Indians entered huts in the fort housing wounded British who were supposed to be under the care of French doctors, and killed and scalped them. Monro complained that the terms of capitulation had been violated, but his contingent was forced to surrender some of its baggage in order to be able even to begin the march. As they marched off, they were harassed by the swarming Indians, who snatched at them, grabbing for weapons and clothing, and pulling away with force those that resisted their actions, including many of the women, children, servants and slaves. As the last of the men left the encampment, a war whoop sounded, and a contingent of Abenaki warriors seized several men at the rear of the column.\nAlthough Montcalm and other French officers attempted to stop further attacks, others did not, and some explicitly refused to provide further protection to the British. At this point, the column dissolved, as some tried to escape the Indian onslaught, while others actively tried to defend themselves. Massachusetts Colonel Joseph Frye reported that he was stripped of much of his clothing and repeatedly threatened. He fled into the woods, and did not reach Fort Edward until 12 August.\n\nEstimates of the numbers killed, wounded, and taken captive during this time vary widely. Ian Steele has compiled estimates ranging from 200 to 1,500. His detailed reconstruction of the siege and its aftermath indicates that the final tally of British missing and dead ranges from 69 to 184, at most 7.5% of the 2,308 who surrendered.\n\nOn the afternoon after the massacre, most of the Indians left, heading back to their homes. Montcalm was able to secure the release of 500 captives they had taken, but they still took with them another 200. The French remained at the site for several days, destroying what remained of the British works before leaving on 18 August and returning to Fort Carillon. For unknown reasons, Montcalm decided not to follow up his victory with an attack on Fort Edward. Many reasons have been proposed justifying his decision, including the departure of many (but not all) of the Indians, a shortage of provisions, the lack of draft animals to assist in the portage to the Hudson, and the need for the Canadian militia to return home in time to participate in the harvest.\n\nWord of the French movements had reached the influential British Indian agent William Johnson on 1 August. Unlike Webb, he acted with haste, and arrived at Fort Edward on 6 August with 1,500 militia and 150 Indians. In a move that infuriated Johnson, Webb refused to allow him to advance toward Fort William Henry, apparently believing a French deserter's report that the French army was 11,000 men strong, and that any attempt at relief was futile given the available forces.\n\nOn 14 August, Montcalm wrote letters to Loudoun and Webb, apologising for the behaviour of the Indians, but also attempting to justify it. Many captives that were taken to Montreal by the Indians were also eventually repatriated through prisoner exchanges negotiated by Governor Vaudreuil. On 27 September a small British fleet left Quebec, carrying paroled or exchanged prisoners taken in a variety of actions including those at Fort William Henry and Oswego. When the fleet arrived at Halifax, about 300 people captured at Fort William Henry were returned to the colonies. The fleet continued to Europe, where a few more former captives were released; some of these also eventually returned to the colonies.\n\nGeneral Webb was recalled because of his actions; William Johnson wrote that Webb was \"the only Englishman [I] ever knew who was a coward.\" Lord Loudoun was also recalled, although this occurred primarily because of the failure of the Louisbourg expedition. Colonel Monro died in November 1757, of apoplexy that some historians have suggested was caused by anger over Webb's failure to support him.\n\nLord Loudoun, upset over the event, delayed implementing the release of French prisoners promised as part of the terms of surrender. General James Abercrombie, who succeeded Loudoun as commander-in-chief, was asked by paroled members of the 35th Foot to void the agreement so that they would be free to serve in 1758; this he did, and they went on to serve under Jeffery Amherst in his successful British expedition against Louisbourg in 1758. Amherst, who also presided over the surrender of Montreal in 1760, refused the surrendering garrisons at Louisbourg and Montreal the normal honours of war, due in part to the French failure to uphold the terms of capitulation in this action.\n\nThe British (and later Americans) never rebuilt anything on the site of Fort William Henry, which lay in ruins for about 200 years. In the 1950s, excavation at the site eventually led to the reconstruction of Fort William Henry as a tourist destination for the town of Lake George.\n\nMany colonial accounts of the time focused on the plundering perpetrated by the Indians, and the fact that those who resisted them were killed, using words like \"massacre\" even though casualty numbers were uncertain. The later releases of captives did not receive the same level of press coverage. The events of the battle and subsequent killings were depicted in the 1826 novel \"The Last of the Mohicans\" by James Fenimore Cooper and in film adaptations of the book. Cooper's description of the events contains numerous inaccuracies, but his work, and the sometimes lurid descriptions of the event by early historians like Benson Lossing and Francis Parkman, led to the belief that many more people died than actually did. Lossing wrote that \"fifteen hundred [people] were butchered or carried into hopeless captivity\", when many more were captured than killed, and even many of those captured were eventually freed.\nHistorians disagree on where to assign responsibility for the Indian actions. Francis Jennings contends that Montcalm anticipated what was going to happen, deliberately ignored it when it did happen, and stepped in only after the atrocities were well under way. In his opinion, the account by Bougainville, who left for Montreal on the night of 9 August and was not present at the massacre, was written as a whitewash to protect Montcalm. Parkman is more vigorous in his defence of Montcalm, claiming that he and other French officers did what they could to prevent atrocities, but were powerless to stop the onslaught.\n\nIan Steele notes that two primary accounts dominate much of the historical record. The first is the record compiled by Montcalm, including the terms of surrender and his letters to Webb and Loudoun, which received wide publication in the colonies (both French and British) and in Europe. The second was the 1778 publication of a book by Jonathan Carver, an explorer who served in the Massachusetts militia and was present at the siege. According to Steele, Carver originated, without any supporting analysis or justification, the idea that as many as 1,500 people had been \"killed or made prisoner\" in his widely popular work. Yale College president Timothy Dwight, in a history published posthumously in 1822, apparently coined the phrase \"massacre at Fort William Henry\", based on Carver's work; his book and Carver's were likely influences on Cooper, and tended to fault Montcalm for the Indian transgressions. Steele himself adopts a more nuanced view of the underlying cause of the massacre. Montcalm and the French leaders repeatedly promised the Indians opportunities for the glory and trophies of war, including plunder, scalping, and the taking of captives. In the aftermath of the Battle of Sabbath Day Point, captives taken were ransomed, meaning the Indians had no visible trophies. The terms of surrender at Fort William Henry effectively denied the Indians appreciable opportunities for plunder: the war provisions were claimed by the French army, and personal effects of the British were to stay with them, leaving nothing for the Indians. According to Steele, this decision bred resentment, as it appeared that the French were conspiring with their enemies (the British) against their friends (the Indians), leaving them without any promised war trophies.\n\nAccording to historian William Nester, many tribal nations were present during the siege. Some were represented by only a few individual warriors. Some individuals were thought to have traveled to join the French, coming from as far away as the Mississippi River and Hudson Bay. Nester proposed that some of the atrocities, which included the murder and scalping of sick individuals and the digging up of bodies for plunder and scalping, resulted in many Indians becoming infected with smallpox, which they then carried into their communities. The devastation wrought by the disease in the following years had a notable effect on Indian participation in the French campaigns of the following years. The tribes that Nester lists are:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2071855", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2071855", "title": "TTX Company", "text": "TTX Company\n\nTTX Company (formerly TrailerTrain) is a provider of railcars and related freight car management services to the North American rail industry. TTX's pool of railcars – over 165,000 cars and intermodal wells – supports shippers in the intermodal, automotive, paper & forest, metals, machinery, wind energy and other markets where flatcars, boxcars and gondolas are required. Owned by a number of large North American railroads, TTX's pools allow members to share capacity to reduce costs and risk.\n\nTTX was founded in 1955 by the Pennsylvania Railroad and the Norfolk and Western Railway, and Rail-Trailer Corporation. Pennsylvania Railroad employees - 6,000 in total - entered possible names in a drawing for the new company, and the name \"Trailer Train\" won. TrailerTrain's original goals were to standardize TOFC railcar practices, foster the growth of transportation, provide its members with the best available equipment at the lowest cost, and keep its members abreast of new developments. In 1991, the company changed its company name from TrailerTrain to TTX.\n\nTTX operates under pooling authority granted by the Surface Transportation Board (STB). The flatcar pool was first approved in 1974 and then reauthorized in 1989, 1994, 2004 and most recently on October 1, 2014 for a 15-year term.\n\nTTX's railcar fleet consists mainly of flatcars, autoracks, boxcars and gondolas. Half of the fleet is dedicated to flatcars and intermodal wells, with a quarter dedicated to auto racks for hauling finished vehicles. The remaining quarter of the pool includes boxcars, gondolas and specialized flatcars to carry a wide variety of general merchandise commodities. TTX provides standardized car types and re-purposes idle assets to serve a dynamic marketplace.\n\nThe fleet is maintained through a network of independent repair facilities, TTX owned Field Maintenance Operations (FMOs) located at intermodal terminals throughout North America and TTX-owned heavy repair shops located in Jacksonville, FL, North Augusta, SC, Waterford, MI and Mira Loma, CA.\n\nTTX is privately owned by North America's railroads and functions as the industry's railcar cooperative. The nine major railroads listed below all own shares of the company with a voting member from each railroad making up the TTX Board of Directors.\nBetween 1991 and 2008, the company used a yellow and black logo with speedlines connecting the two T's and an X.\n\nIn March 2008, the company released a new logo, colored Tuscan red in honor of one of the founding railroads, the Pennsylvania Railroad. \n"}
{"id": "2071858", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2071858", "title": "Exclusion clause", "text": "Exclusion clause\n\nAn exclusion clause is a term in a contract that seeks to restrict the rights of the parties to the contract.\n\nTraditionally, the district courts have sought to limit the operation of exclusion clauses. In addition to numerous common law rules limiting their operation, in England and Wales Consumer Contracts Regulations 1999. The Unfair Contract Terms Act 1977 applies to all contracts, but the Unfair Terms in Consumer Contracts Regulations 1999, unlike the common law rules, do differentiate between contracts between businesses and contracts between business and consumer, so the law seems to explicitly recognize the greater possibility of exploitation of the consumer by businesses.\n\nThere are various methods by which a party may seek to exclude or mitigate liability by use of a contractual term:\n\n\nThe courts have traditionally held that exclusion clauses only operate if they are actually part of the contract. There seem to be three methods of incorporation:\n\n\nFor an exclusion clause to operate, it must cover the breach (assuming there actually is a breach of contract). If there is, then the type of liability arising is also important. Generally, there are two varieties of liability: strict liability (liability arising due to a state of affairs without the party at breach necessarily being at fault) and liability for negligence (liability arising due to fault).\n\nThe courts have a tendency of requiring the party relying on the clause to have drafted it properly so that it exempts them from the liability arising, and if any ambiguity is present, the courts usually interpret it strictly against the party relying on the clause.\n\nAs espoused in \"Darlington Futures Ltd v Delco Australia Pty Ltd\", the meaning of an exclusion clause is construed in its ordinary and natural meaning in the context. Although we construe the meaning much like any other ordinary clause in the contract, we need to examine the clause in light of the contract as a whole. Exclusion clauses should not be subject to a strained construction in order to reduce the ambit of their operation. The judge in \"R&B Customs Brokers Co Ltd v United Dominions Trust Ltd\" refused to allow an exemption clause, of which did cover the nature of the implied term, on the grounds that it did not make specific and explicit reference to that term.\n\nIf, after attempting to construe an exclusion clause (or indeed any other contractual term) in accord with its ordinary and natural meaning of the words, there is still ambiguity then (if the clause was imposed by one party upon the other without negotiation) the contra proferentem rule applies. Essentially this means that the clause will be construed against the interests of the person who proposed its inclusion. that is to say, \"contra\" (against) the \"proferens\" (proposer).\n\nIn terms of negligence, the courts have taken the approach that it is unlikely that someone would enter into a contract that allows the other party to evade fault based liability. As a result, if a party wishes exempt his liability for negligence, he must make sure that the other parties understand that. The decision in \"Canada SS Lines Ltd v. The King\" held that:\n\nIn Australia, the \"four corners rule\" has been adopted in preference over the idea of a \"fundamental breach\". The court will presume that parties to a contract will not exclude liability for losses arising from acts not authorised under the contract. However, if acts of negligence occur during authorised acts, then the exclusion clauses shall still apply;\n\nIf the contract is for the carriage of goods, if the path is deviated from what was agreed, any exclusion clauses no longer apply.\n\nIn Australia, exclusion clauses have been recognised as valid by the High Court. They do not apply in cases of deliberate breach.\n\nEven if terms included in a contract are deemed to be exclusion or exemption clauses, various jurisdictions have enacted statutory controls, to limit the their effect. In Australia, ACL, Section 64 limits exclusion clauses from rendering them from being ineffective against the guarantees of the same act. In the United Kingdom, the Unfair Contract Terms Act 1977 renders many exemption clauses ineffective. The Unfair Terms in Consumer Contracts Regulations 1999 provide further protection for consumers.\n\n16. See also, \"Darlington Futures v Delco Aus\" [1986] HCA 82 \n"}
{"id": "2071860", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2071860", "title": "Pump It", "text": "Pump It\n\n\"Pump It\" is a 2005 song by The Black Eyed Peas. It was released as the fourth and final single from The Black Eyed Peas' 2005 album \"Monkey Business\". This song was also remixed for the deluxe edition of the group's fifth studio album \"The E.N.D\" as \"Pump It Harder\". \"Pump It\" heavily incorporates music from Dick Dale's 1962 surf version of \"Misirlou\" (known for being featured in the 1994 Quentin Tarantino film \"Pulp Fiction\").\n\n\"I was in Brazil doing some CD,\" The Black Eyed Peas member will.i.am recalls. \"I came across this compilation [disk] and I thought it was one thing but it turned out to be something else. The Dick Dale song \"Miserlou\" [sic] was on it. At first, I was angry this isn't what I wanted to buy,\" he laughs. \"But then, really, that song is hot. I said, 'We should do a song like this.' I jump-started the computer and made some beats on the train. Then we had to fly to Tokyo and I tightened up the beat on the plane. Then I recorded vocals in this park in Tokyo, and that's how we recorded the song 'Pump It'.\"\n\nThe music video for \"Pump It\" features The Black Eyed Peas competing and fighting with a gang of unidentified people in a basement. It is the second highest viewed video by The Black Eyed Peas only surpassed by \"The Time (Dirty Bit)\".\n\nBefore the single was officially released, the song peaked at number 82 on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 in June 2005. This was mainly based on digital download strength due to exposure in the Best Buy ads. After its official airplay release, it peaked at number 18 in March 2006. The single was released to stores in the United States on February 14, 2006 and in the United Kingdom on March 13, 2006. \n\nThis single, compared to other \"Monkey Business\" singles' performance on US charts, is the lowest ranking single from the album.\n\nThe song reached higher spots on charts in other countries. In New Zealand, \"Pump It\" debuted at number 19 on March 13, 2006. It jumped to number 2 the following week, where it peaked. It became their 4th consecutive top 5 hit from \"Monkey Business\" in this country, after \"Don't Phunk With My Heart\" and \"My Humps\" reached number 1, and \"Don't Lie\" peaking at number 5. Also, it is their 9th consecutive top 10 hit, after all of their singles from \"Elephunk\" reached the top 10, (including #1's \"Where Is The Love?\" and \"Shut Up!\". and earlier single \"Request + Line\", which peaked at number 10. Amazingly, this expanded to 11 top 10 hits for the band with the release of the 3 consecutive top 3 singles \"Boom Boom Pow\" (#2), \" I Gotta Feeling\" (#1) and \"Meet Me Halfway\" (#3) from the future album \"The E.N.D\". The streak broke when next single \"Rock That Body\" only managed to peak at number 16. They then had another 3 consecutive top 10 hits with \"The Time (Dirty Bit)\" (another #1 hit in the country), \"Just Can't Get Enough\" (#4), and \"Don't Stop The Party\" (#9) from the 2010 album \"The Beginning\". In Australia, the song peaked at number 6. The song was also popular in the United Kingdom, becoming their 8th hit single there. \"Pump It\" peaked at number 3 on the UK Singles Chart - only 5 sales behind the #2 song that week \"It's Chico Time\", matching the chart success of previous single \"My Humps\". It was the first song ever to make the UK Top 40 on sales of downloads alone.\n\nThe song is included in the video game \"Just Dance 3\", as well as part of a soundtrack in \"Little Man\". It can be heard in \"\", during the lasagna making scene.\n\n"}
{"id": "2071863", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2071863", "title": "Jesús Mendoza", "text": "Jesús Mendoza\n\nJosé de Jesús Mendoza Magaña (born January 10, 1979 in Mexico City) is a Mexican association football striker.\n\nMendoza debuted in the Verano 1997 season with León against Cruz Azul. Mendoza did not receive much playing time until the Invierno 1998 season. For the Invierno 1999 season, Mendoza was transferred to Chivas de Guadalajara. Mendoza played two seasons with Chivas in which he made 33 appearances and scored 10 goals.\n\nWhen the Invierno 2000 season came, Mendoza was sold to bitter rival Club América. Mendoza won the first championship in his career in the Verano 2002 season with America. Mendoza was sent to Monterrey before the Clausra 2003 season started. Despite playing infrequently during the Clausura 2003, Mendoza won the second championship of his career, this time with Monterrey.\n\nMendoza was sent back to America for the Apertura 2003 season and has not left since. Mendoza won his third championship during the Clausura 2005 with America. Prior to the Apertura 2005 season, Mendoza was transferred to San Luis F.C..\n\n"}
{"id": "2071873", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2071873", "title": "Texas's 21st congressional district", "text": "Texas's 21st congressional district\n\nTexas's 21st congressional district of the United States House of Representatives serves the area north of San Antonio and a significant portion of Austin in the state of Texas. The current Representative from the 21st district is Chip Roy.\n\nIn the case of \"League of United Latin American Citizens v. Perry\", 548 U. S. 399 (2006), the U.S. Supreme Court ruled that the configuration of Texas' 15th, 21st, 23rd, 25th and 28th congressional districts as drawn by the Texas Legislature violated the National Voting Rights Act of 1965. Replacement district boundaries for the 2006 election were subsequently issued for the five districts by the local federal district court, and on election day in November, these five districts had open primaries, with a candidate being elected if he or she received over 50 percent of the vote, and runoff elections in December to decide elections in which no candidate gained an absolute majority in November.\n\nIn the 2006 election, Lamar Smith defeated veteran and college administrator John Courage with 60% of the vote.\n\nIn the 2010 election, Lamar Smith defeated Lainey Melnick with 68.9 percent of the vote. Melnick, an Austin real estate broker, officially filed papers with the Federal Election Commission on June 23, 2009 to become a candidate.\n\nIncumbent Lamar Smith faced five challengers in the 2012 general election on November 6, 2012: Candace Duval (Dem), John-Henry Liberty (Lib), Fidel Castillo (Grn), Bill Stout (Grn), and Carlos Pena (Ind).\n\nLamar Smith did not run for reelection in 2018.\n\nOn the Republican side, 18 candidates competed in the March 6 primary, in which no one received a majority. The first- and second-place finishers were, respectively, attorney Chip Roy, who served as chief of staff to Sen. Ted Cruz (R-Tex.) and senior advisor to Texas Gov. Rick Perry (R), and Matt McCall, owner of a business providing human tissue for American military hospitals. Roy and McCall advanced to a May 22 runoff, which Roy won with 52.7% of the vote.\n\nOn the Democratic side, four candidates ran to replace Smith: Joseph Kopser, entrepreneur and Army veteran; Derrick Crowe, activist; Elliott McFadden, executive director of Austin B-cycle; and Mary Street Wilson, pastor. No one received a majority in the March 6 primary, so the top two finishers, Wilson and Kopser, advanced to a runoff on May 22. Kopser flipped the primary result in the runoff against Wilson, winning the nomination with 58% of the vote.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2071878", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2071878", "title": "H.323 Gatekeeper", "text": "H.323 Gatekeeper\n\nA H.323 Gatekeeper serves the purpose of Call Admission Control and translation services from E.164 IDs (commonly a phone number) to IP addresses in an H.323 telephony network. Gatekeepers can be combined with a gateway function to proxy H.323 calls and are sometimes referred to as Session Border Controllers. A gatekeeper can also deny access or limit the number of simultaneous connections to prevent network congestion.\n\nH.323 endpoints are not required to register with a gatekeeper to be able to place point to point calls, but they are essential for any serious H.323 network to control call prefix routing and link capacities among other functions.\n\nA typical H.323 Gatekeeper call flow for a successful call may look like:-\n\n\nThe gatekeeper allows calls to be placed either:\nDirectly between endpoints (Direct Endpoint Model), or\nRoute the call signaling through itself (Gatekeeper Routed Model).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2071879", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2071879", "title": "Honorius of Thebes", "text": "Honorius of Thebes\n\nHonorius of Thebes, a possibly mythical character from the Middle Ages, is said to have authored \"The Sworn Book of Honorius\", although the first printed manuscript of this work did not appear until 1629. Considerable mystery still exists about the identity of Honorius, both Pope Honorius I and Pope Honorius III have been linked to the character. Honorius of Thebes is also claimed to be the creator of the Theban alphabet, in Heinrich Cornelius Agrippa's \"De Occulta Philosophia\" (1531) and Johannes Trithemius's \"Polygraphia\" (1518).\n\nAccording to the \"Sworn Book of Honorius\", he is supposed to be \"the son of Euclid, master of the Thebians\". But the book delivers no source to whom this might be. Probably Thebes in Greece is intended.\n"}
{"id": "2071881", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2071881", "title": "Srinivasan Keshav", "text": "Srinivasan Keshav\n\nSrinivasan Keshav is the Robert Sansom Professor of Computer Science at the University of Cambridge, with effect from 1 October 2019.\n\nAfter undergraduate studies at the Indian Institute of Technology, Delhi in 1986, he received his PhD in 1991 from the University of California, Berkeley, with a thesis entitled \"Congestion Control in Computer Networks\". His advisor was Domenico Ferrari. He then joined the research staff at Bell Labs; while at Bell Labs, he also had visiting faculty positions at IIT Delhi and Columbia University. In 1996 he became an associate professor at Cornell University; he then left academia in 1999 to co-found Ensim Corporation. In 2003, he joined the faculty at the University of Waterloo, where he held a Canada Research Chair in Tetherless Computing from 2004 to 2014 and a Cisco Systems Chair in Smart Grid from 2012 to 2017.\n\nHe is the inventor, along with his students at the University of Waterloo, of KioskNet, a system for providing internet access in impoverished countries. He has been co-director of the Information Systems and Science for Energy (ISS4E) Laboratory at the University of Waterloo since 2010. At the University of Cambridge, Prof. Keshav continues to work on research and teach in areas related to sustainable energy.\n\nKeshav is the author of a textbook on computer networks, \"An Engineering Approach to Computer Networking\". In 2012, he wrote Mathematical Foundations of Computer Networking.\n\nKeshav was the Editor of \"Computer Communication Review\" from 2008 to 2013 and the Chair of ACM SIGCOMM from 2013 to 2017.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2071883", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2071883", "title": "Ramon Rivero (animator)", "text": "Ramon Rivero (animator)\n\nRamon Rivero is an animation director, digital puppeteer and computer animator best known for his work on the 2001 film \"\".\n\nBorn in Mexico, he started his animation career in the 1980s as puppeteer, puppet maker and set designer for the TV show Titeradas, screened in the Channel 13 Yucatán, under the direction and mentorship of ,\n\nRamon moved to New Zealand in the late 1980s where he was Nominated for Best Performance in a Supporting Role \"at the 1990 New Zealand Film Awards\" for his work as a supervising puppeteer on the 1989 Peter Jackson film \"Meet the Feebles\", He also was the supervising puppeteer on Jackson's 1992 film \"Braindead\".\n\nMr Rivero later followed Jackson to Weta Digital, where he worked for four years. At Weta, he worked as lead performance animator on the special effects team for \"\", using digital puppetry to help Andy Serkis portray the character Gollum and to help create the troll which attacks the protagonists in the mines of Moria.\n\nIn 2007 he worked as Animation Director for the TV series Freefonix.\n\n"}
{"id": "2071884", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2071884", "title": "Members of the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly, 2005–2008", "text": "Members of the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly, 2005–2008\n\nThis is a list of members of the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly from 2005 to 2008:\n\n"}
{"id": "2071894", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2071894", "title": "Ken Hale", "text": "Ken Hale\n\nKen Hale is the name of:\n\n"}
{"id": "2071897", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2071897", "title": "Kay Adams", "text": "Kay Adams\n\nKay or Kaye Adams may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2071899", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2071899", "title": "Xiphactinus", "text": "Xiphactinus\n\nXiphactinus (from Latin and Greek for \"sword-ray\") is an extinct genus of large () predatory marine bony fish that lived during the Late Cretaceous (Albian to Maastrichtian). When alive, the fish would have resembled a gargantuan, fanged tarpon (to which it was, however, not related). The species \"Portheus molossus\" described by Cope is a junior synonym of \"X. audax\". Skeletal remains of \"Xiphactinus\" have come from the Carlile Shale and Greenhorn Limestone of Kansas (where the first \"Xiphactinus\" fossil was discovered during the 1850s in the Niobrara Chalk), and Cretaceous formations all over the East Coast (most notably Georgia, Alabama, North Carolina, and New Jersey) in the United States, as well as Europe, Australia, the Kanguk and Ashville Formations of Canada, and La Luna Formation of Venezuela.\n\nSpecies of \"Xiphactinus\" were voracious predatory fish. At least a dozen specimens of \"X. audax\" have been collected with the remains of large, undigested or partially digested prey in their stomachs. In particular, one fossil specimen was collected by George F. Sternberg with another, nearly perfectly preserved long ichthyodectid \"Gillicus arcuatus\" inside of it. The larger fish apparently died soon after eating its prey, most likely owing to the smaller prey's struggling and rupturing an organ as it was being swallowed. This fossil can be seen at the Sternberg Museum of Natural History in Hays, Kansas.\n\nLike many other species in the Late Cretaceous oceans, a dead or injured individual was likely to be scavenged by sharks (\"Cretoxyrhina\" and \"Squalicorax\"). The remains of a \"Xiphactinus\" were found within a large specimen of \"Cretoxyrhina\" collected by Charles H. Sternberg. The specimen is on display at the University of Kansas Museum of Natural History.\n\nVirtually nothing is known about the larval or juvenile stages. The smallest fossil specimen of \"X. audax\" consists of a tooth bearing premaxilla and lower jaws of an individual estimated to be about long.\n\nThe species and all other ichthyodectids became extinct near the end of the Late Cretaceous – see Cretaceous–Paleogene extinction event.\n\nAn incomplete skull of what may be a new species of \"Xiphactinus\" was found in 2002 in the Czech Republic, in a small town called Šachov next to Borohrádek city, by 16-year-old student Michal Matějka.\n\nIn July 2010 the bones of a \"Xiphactinus\" were discovered near Morden, Manitoba, Canada. The specimen was about long and was found with the flipper of a mosasaur between its jaws.\n\nIn 1982, a former Baptist minister, Carl Baugh, began excavations on the limestone beds of the Paluxy River, near Glen Rose, Texas, famous for its dinosaur tracks. Some of the tracks resembled human footprints and had been proclaimed since 1900 as evidence that dinosaurs and modern humans had once lived alongside one another. Scientists' investigations found the supposed human footprints to be \"forms of elongate dinosaur tracks, while others were selectively highlighted erosional markings, and still others (on loose blocks) probable carvings.\" While excavating, he found a solitary \"Y-shaped\" fossil that he informally called \"Unicerosaurus\". In a 1987 popular article, John Armstrong described the fossil as a \"Y-shaped petrified bone that appears to be the neural spine from a huge fish like the \"Portheus\" of Niobrara Chalk\" that Baugh's museum \"declared to be the forehead horn of a newly discovered dinosaur genus\". The museum's exhibit told visitors that the \"horn\" belonged to \"the unicorn of Job 38, one of three dinosaurs mentioned in Scripture; the others being behemoth and leviathan of Job 40 and 41\", and that the horn was able to fold back like the blade of a jack knife. Although some Young Earth Creationists shared Baugh's interpretations of the biblical Behemoth and Leviathan, Baugh's claims were not taken seriously either by Christian organizations or the scientific community.\n\nIn October 2010, Kansas House Rep. Tom Sloan (R-Lawrence) announced that he would introduce legislation to make \"Xiphactinus audax\", a.k.a. the \"X-fish\", the state fossil of Kansas.\n\n"}
{"id": "2071900", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2071900", "title": "Causal dynamical triangulation", "text": "Causal dynamical triangulation\n\nCausal dynamical triangulation (abbreviated as CDT) theorized by Renate Loll, Jan Ambjørn and Jerzy Jurkiewicz, and popularized by Fotini Markopoulou and Lee Smolin, is an approach to quantum gravity that like loop quantum gravity is background independent. \n\nThis means that it does not assume any pre-existing arena (dimensional space), but rather attempts to show how the spacetime fabric itself evolves. \n\nThe Loops '05 conference, hosted by many loop quantum gravity theorists, included several presentations which discussed CDT in great depth, and revealed it to be a pivotal insight for theorists. It has sparked considerable interest as it appears to have a good semi-classical description. At large scales, it re-creates the familiar 4-dimensional spacetime, but it shows spacetime to be 2-d near the Planck scale, and reveals a fractal structure on slices of constant time. These interesting results agree with the findings of Lauscher and Reuter, who use an approach called Quantum Einstein Gravity, and with other recent theoretical work. A brief article appeared in the February 2007 issue of \"Scientific American\", which gives an overview of the theory, explained why some physicists are excited about it, and put it in historical perspective. The same publication gives CDT, and its primary authors, a feature article in its July 2008 issue.\n\nNear the Planck scale, the structure of spacetime itself is supposed to be constantly changing due to quantum fluctuations and topological fluctuations. CDT theory uses a triangulation process which varies dynamically and follows deterministic rules, to map out how this can evolve into dimensional spaces similar to that of our universe.\n\nThe results of researchers suggest that this is a good way to model the early universe, and describe its evolution. Using a structure called a simplex, it divides spacetime into tiny triangular sections. A simplex is the multidimensional analogue of a triangle [2-simplex]; a 3-simplex is usually called a tetrahedron, while the 4-simplex, which is the basic building block in this theory, is also known as the pentachoron. Each simplex is geometrically flat, but simplices can be \"glued\" together in a variety of ways to create curved spacetimes, where previous attempts at triangulation of quantum spaces have produced jumbled universes with far too many dimensions, or minimal universes with too few.\n\nCDT avoids this problem by allowing only those configurations in which the timelines of all joined edges of simplices agree.\n\nCDT is a modification of quantum Regge calculus where spacetime is discretized by approximating it with a piecewise linear manifold in a process called triangulation. In this process, a \"d\"-dimensional spacetime is considered as formed by space slices that are labeled by a discrete time variable \"t\". Each space slice is approximated by a simplicial manifold composed by regular (\"d\" − 1)-dimensional simplices and the connection between these slices is made by a piecewise linear manifold of \"d\"-simplices. In place of a smooth manifold there is a network of triangulation nodes, where space is locally flat (within each simplex) but globally curved, as with the individual faces and the overall surface of a geodesic dome. The line segments which make up each triangle can represent either a space-like or time-like extent, depending on whether they lie on a given time slice, or connect a vertex at time \"t\" with one at time \"t\" + 1. The crucial development is that the network of simplices is constrained to evolve in a way that preserves causality. This allows a path integral to be calculated non-perturbatively, by summation of all possible (allowed) configurations of the simplices, and correspondingly, of all possible spatial geometries.\n\nSimply put, each individual simplex is like a building block of spacetime, but the edges that have a time arrow must agree in direction, wherever the edges are joined. This rule preserves causality, a feature missing from previous \"triangulation\" theories. When simplexes are joined in this way, the complex evolves in an orderly fashion, and eventually creates the observed framework of dimensions. CDT builds upon the earlier work of Barrett and Crane, and Baez and Barret, but by introducing the causality constraint as a fundamental rule (influencing the process from the very start), Loll, Ambjørn, and Jurkiewicz created something different.\n\nCDT derives the observed nature and properties of spacetime from a small set of assumptions, without adjusting factors. The idea of deriving what is observed from first principles is very attractive to physicists. CDT models the character of spacetime both in the ultra-microscopic realm near the Planck scale, and at the scale of the cosmos, so CDT may provide insights into the nature of reality.\n\nEvaluation of the observable implications of CDT relies heavily on Monte Carlo simulation by computer. Some feel that this makes CDT an inelegant quantum gravity theory. Also, it has been argued that discrete time-slicing may not accurately reproduce all possible modes of a dynamical system. However, research by Markopoulou and Smolin demonstrates that the cause for those concerns may be limited. Therefore, many physicists still regard this line of reasoning as promising.\n\nCDT has some similarities with loop quantum gravity, especially with its spin foam formulations. For example, the Lorentzian Barrett–Crane model is essentially a non-perturbative prescription for computing path integrals, just like CDT. There are important differences, however. Spin foam formulations of quantum gravity use different degrees of freedom and different Lagrangians. For example, in CDT, the distance, or \"the interval\", between any two points in a given triangulation can be calculated exactly (triangulations are eigenstates of the distance operator). This is not true for spin foams or loop quantum gravity in general.\n\nAnother approach to quantum gravity that is closely related to causal dynamical triangulation is called causal sets. Both CDT and causal sets attempt to model the spacetime with a discrete causal structure. The main difference between the two is that the causal set approach is relatively general, whereas CDT assumes a more specific relationship between the lattice of spacetime events and geometry. Consequently, the Lagrangian of CDT is constrained by the initial assumptions to the extent that it can be written down explicitly and analyzed (see, for example, hep-th/0505154, page 5), whereas there is more freedom in how one might write down an action for causal-set theory.\n\n\nEarly papers on the subject: \n\n"}
{"id": "2071913", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2071913", "title": "Wood Mountain Regional Park", "text": "Wood Mountain Regional Park\n\nWood Mountain Regional Park is a conservation area in its natural state set aside for recreation located in southern area of Saskatchewan, Canada on Highway 18. Within the park are Rodeo Ranch Museum, Homestead museum, Sitting Bull monument, Ball Diamonds, campsites, play area, concessions, swimming pool, hiking and bicycling trails. This is a local park administered by local funding.\n\nThe North West Mountain Police were sent to the Wood Mountain area to establish the Queen's Law in the frontier west of early Canada. It was the 1870s, and Sitting Bull had led his large Sioux tribe away from The Little Big Horn after defeating Custer's incursion upon their native land. The Canadian government was concerned that the Sioux would cause problems, and charged Walsh of the NWMP with maintaining control of what amounted to Canada's first attempted peace keeping mission. Walsh succeeded, as he and Sitting Bull became close friends over the years, and there were never any serious problems caused by the Native American settlers. Members of the tribe remain in the Wood Mountain area to this day, including several families who live on the Wood Mountain First Nations reserve.\n\nIn 1890 the Wood Mountain Stampede was established, and it became an annual event held even through the World War years of 1914-1918 and 1939–1945, which has allowed it to attain the title of the longest-running annual rodeo in Canada. It is held each year, the second weekend in July.\n\nThe Rodeo Ranch Museum features exhibits about the cowboys and ranchers who settled the area in the 1880s. Exhibits include photographs, pioneer, rodeo and Western artifacts.\n\nAlso known as Wood Mountain Post Provincial Park, the Historic Park is a partially restored 1870s post of the North-West Mounted Police (NWMP). The two post buildings include displays about the history of the NWMP and its activities in the area, as well as the history of the Sioux tribe members and its chief medicine man, Sitting Bull, who came to the area after the 1876 Battle of the Little Bighorn.\n\nA monument to Sitting Bull is located on a hill in the Regional Park.\n\nThe Historic Park is administered by the provincial parks board and tourism, and is located near the Regional Park at .\n\nWood Mountain is a large area just east of the East Block of the Grasslands National Park in southern Saskatchewan, which covers hundreds of square kilometers. Wood Mountain is a Mountain in the Grasslands National Park of Canada located at . Whereas Wood Mountain Creek is located at 15-6-3-W3 or and is in actuality a river.\n\nWood Mountain Game Preserve is located at .\n\nThe village of Wood Mountain is located in south central Saskatchewan, Canada. The village is located at 8-5-3-W3 or . The current population is 20 as of June 2005.\n\nThe Wood Mountain First Nation 160 Reserve is located approximately 5 kilometers southwest of the village at 26-4-4-W3 or , one fluent Lakota language speakers remains in the community.\n\n"}
{"id": "2071918", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2071918", "title": "Texas's 22nd congressional district", "text": "Texas's 22nd congressional district\n\nTexas's 22nd congressional district of the United States House of Representatives covers a largely suburban south-central portion of the metropolitan area. The district includes the majority of Fort Bend County, including most of the cities of Sugar Land, Missouri City, Rosenberg, Needville and the county seat of Richmond as well as the county's share of the largely unincorporated Greater Katy area west of Houston. In addition, the district also contains portions of northern Brazoria County, including Pearland and Alvin, as well as a small portion of southeast Harris County centered on Friendswood.\n\nThe district is represented by Republican Pete Olson, who was elected in 2008 over one-term incumbent Democrat Nick Lampson. Before 2006, the district had been represented by former House Majority Leader Tom DeLay since 1985, and before that, former Congressman and three-time presidential candidate Ron Paul briefly in 1976 and again from 1979 to 1985. In 2006, 52% of poll respondents identified as Republicans, 32% as Democrats, and 16% as independents.\n\nThe district was originally created in 1958, replacing the abolished at-large district represented by Democrat Martin Dies, Jr. from 1953 to 1959. At the time, each of Texas's 254 counties were represented by one member of Congress. The new district made history with its placement in Harris County, home to the city of Houston and previously represented in its entirely by Democrat Albert Thomas in the state's 8th congressional district, making Harris the first county in Texas since World War II to be divided into more than one congressional district.\n\nThe new 22nd district, largely made up of suburban territory outside of Houston along with southern portions of the city itself, was won by Democrat Robert R. Casey, a former Harris County Judge (a post equivalent to that of a county executive in Texas). The 8th and 22nd districts were separated by a boundary consisting roughly of what is now U.S. 290, the western and southern portions of Loop 610, and the portion of Buffalo Bayou east of downtown Houston including the Houston Ship Channel. All points south of this boundary were in the 22nd, while the remainder was in the 8th. These boundaries would remain effective until the 1964 elections.\n\nAfter a federal court in Houston ruled Texas' congressional redistricting practices as unconstitutional in \"Bush v. Martin\", effective with the 1966 elections, Harris County was realigned into three separate congressional districts — the existing 8th and 22nd districts, plus the newly realigned 7th district on the west side of Houston and Harris County. The new 7th would elect former Harris County Republican Party chairman (and future President) George H. W. Bush, while Casey's 22nd district was made the most compact of the three, stretching from southwest Houston to southeast Harris County, including Pasadena and Clear Lake City, and also encompassing the Johnson Space Center. The district was not realigned until following the 1970 Census.\n\nBeginning with the 1972 elections, the 22nd district lost some largely African-American portions to the newly realigned, majority African-American 18th district (which would elect Democrat Barbara Jordan), while other areas along the Houston Ship Channel went to the 8th district, now represented by Democrat Bob Eckhardt and primarily concentrated in north Houston.\n\nThose areas were replaced by rapidly growing Fort Bend and Brazoria counties, home to growing Republican constituencies of white upper-middle-class families — natives and transplants alike — moving to jobs in Houston's growing energy sector, as well as at the Johnson Space Center and the Texas Medical Center, and drawn to affordable housing and top-rated schools in the area's burgeoning master-planned communities. A mid-decade redistricting in 1974 added southern Waller County, with a similar character to Fort Bend and Brazoria. As with most growing exurban areas in the Southern United States, these new areas also had large blocs of conservative white Democrats disenchanted with their party's support for restoration of civil rights promoted by the administration of Lyndon B. Johnson and the national Democratic Party. While Casey continued to win reelection in 1972 and 1974 without significant opposition, his resignation following his appointment to the Federal Maritime Commission in 1976, combined with increased suburban growth in the aforementioned counties, opened the door for a Republican upset in the special election that followed.\n\nMonths after Casey's resignation, on April 3, 1976, Republican Ron Paul, a physician and Air Force veteran who had moved from the Pittsburgh area in the previous decade with his wife and settled in Brazoria County, won a special election to fill the remainder of Casey's unexpired term. While Paul lost the general election later that year to Democratic State Senator Bob Gammage by fewer than 300 votes, in 1978 he defeated Gammage in a rematch by a 1,200-vote margin, coinciding with the election of Bill Clements as Texas' first Republican Governor since Reconstruction. In 1980, Paul would go on to win a second term, defeating Democratic attorney Mike Andrews, a former Harris County prosecutor, by a narrow margin.\n\nFollowing the 1980 Census, rapid growth in the Houston area resulted in most of the Harris County portion of the 22nd being transferred to the new 25th congressional district, which Andrews won in 1982 and would hold for six terms before pursuing an unsuccessful run for the Democratic nomination for U.S. Senate in 1994. The redistricting left Paul with a district comprising three major portions, all of which were strongly Republican. These included:\n\n\nThis configuration would remain in effect for the remainder of the 1980s, including the first four terms of Republican Tom DeLay's tenure, as Paul unsuccessfully sought the Republican nomination for the United States Senate in 1984 against eventual winner Phil Gramm. DeLay would serve as President of the conservative Republican Study Committee and became a Republican Whip while representing this configuration of the district.\n\nFollowing the 1990 Census, the 22nd district was redrawn to take in all of Fort Bend County, all of Brazoria County save for its western and southern edges, and a small portion of southwest Houston in Harris County around the Alief, Westchase and Sharpstown areas. The district was further realigned after the 2000 Census, taking effect after the 2002 elections, when DeLay was re-elected and became House Majority Leader. The district maintained its share of both Fort Bend and Brazoria counties (save for Fort Bend's share of the city of Houston), while also gaining a large portion of southeast Harris County, including portions of Clear Lake City, Pasadena, La Porte, Deer Park and Seabrook.\n\nIn 2003, following the Republican takeover of the Texas House of Representatives, the Texas Legislature engineered a mid-decade redistricting. The 22nd lost its share of Brazoria County except for Pearland, as well as communities on Fort Bend County's northern and western edges, to the 14th district. That district was now represented by Paul, who was elected and returned to Congress in 1997 after a 12-year absence. The 22nd district now included Pearland, almost all of southeast Harris County, including the Johnson Space Center, and a largely working-class western portion of Galveston County, including Santa Fe and La Marque, in addition to much of DeLay's political base in Sugar Land, Missouri City, Rosenberg and surrounding areas. The district would remain unchanged through the rest of the decade, but changed its incumbent three times after Tom DeLay resigned on June 9, 2006 in the wake of corruption allegations related to the 2003 redistricting.\n\nAs the result of a special election on November 7, 2006 to fill DeLay's vacant congressional seat, Republican Shelley Sekula-Gibbs filled the remainder of DeLay's term in late 2006, having lost the general election to Democrat Nick Lampson in a bizarre set of circumstances. Lampson had previously represented Texas's 9th congressional district, based in Beaumont and Galveston, before the 2003 redistricting resulted in that district being renumbered as the 2nd district and pushed into heavily Republican northern Houston. Lampson was defeated in the 2004 election Republican Harris County district court judge Ted Poe. Ahead of the 2006 election, Lampson moved to Stafford, where his grandparents had settled after they immigrated from Italy. Additionally, the 22nd included a large slice of his former base; he'd previously represented much of the Galveston County portion of the district, as well as the area around the Johnson Space Center. Lampson benefited from Sekula-Gibbs being forced to run a write-in campaign, as DeLay had resigned one month after winning a contentious Republican primary against three challengers (one of whom won over 20 percent of the vote, but not enough to overcome DeLay's vote of over 60 percent). After one term and despite a vigorous campaign, Lampson lost the seat to Republican Pete Olson in 2008, who has held the seat ever since, often winning with double-digit margins. However in 2018, Olson won a sixth term in a surprisingly close race fueled by Democratic coattails (mostly involving straight ticket voting) from the Senate campaign of El Paso congressman Beto O'Rourke, who won Fort Bend County and narrowly lost the 22nd district in his unsuccessful (albeit close) bid against incumbent Republican Ted Cruz.\n\nSince 2013, the district has included most of Fort Bend County, save for most of the communities of Stafford, Mission Bend, Fresno, northern Missouri City and the Fort Bend Houston \"super neighborhood\" in far southwest Houston. Also within the district lie northern parts of Brazoria County, including Pearland and Alvin, and portions of southeast Houston and Harris County running along Interstate 45 south of the Sam Houston Tollway. The affluent residents of the district tends to vote strongly Republican and has an average median household income of $82,899 as of the 2012 American Community Survey. It is the wealthiest congressional district in Texas and also a diverse district with sizable minority constituencies, who are educated and of the professional class.\n\nMitt Romney won the district with 62% of the vote in 2012, with Republicans holding the overwhelming majority of elected offices in the district. The district also voted for Donald Trump in 2016 despite Hillary Clinton becoming the first Democrat to carry Fort Bend County since 1964. Democratic strength within the district is largely concentrated in heavily Hispanic communities in Rosenberg, along with some parts of Missouri City, where the African-American population exceeds one-third, and western precincts in Pearland; these favored Barack Obama with around 50-60% of the vote. But these voting blocs are outnumbered by large blocs of suburban Republican voters in much of the district, including groups of moderate-leaning ethnic Asian voters centered on Sugar Land, along with some conservative-leaning Hispanic and African-American voters in more affluent parts of the district. Still, due to Fort Bend County's recent status as a classic suburban \"swing county\" in state and national politics, as well as Democratic gains at the local level in the 2018 elections, many observers speculate that this district is likely to be competitive in future elections.\n\nIncumbent Democrat Robert R. Casey defeated ob/gyn Ron Paul, a delegate to the Texas Republican convention; Democrats won 1974 heavily.\n\nWhen President Gerald Ford appointed Casey to head the Federal Maritime Commission, Paul won a 1976 special election to fill the empty seat, against Democrat Robert Gammage; Paul was sworn in on April 3. Paul had decided to enter politics on August 15, 1971, when President Richard Nixon closed the \"gold window\" by implementing the U.S. dollar's complete departure from the gold standard.\n\nPaul was the first Republican elected from the area since Reconstruction, and the first from the state since Bill Guill was elected from the 14th congressional district in 1950. He led the Texas Reagan delegation at the national Republican convention. His successful campaign against Gammage surprised local Democrats, who had expected to retain the seat easily following the Watergate scandal of President Richard Nixon. Gammage underestimated Paul's support among local women.\n\nGammage defeated Paul some months later in the general election, by fewer than 300votes (0.2%).\n\nPaul defeated Gammage in a 1978 rematch.\n\nPaul won a new term in 1980.\n\nPaul won a new term in 1982.\n\nIn 1984, Paul chose to run for the U.S. Senate instead of re-election to the House. He was succeeded by former state representative Tom DeLay.\n\nOn January 2, 2006, Nick Lampson, a Jefferson County tax assessor-collector, filed as a Democrat to challenge incumbent Tom DeLay for the 2006 general election. Lampson had represented the adjacent until DeLay engineered the 2003 Texas redistricting, after which Lampson lost his seat to Republican Ted Poe in 2004.\n\nDeLay won the Republican primary on March 7, 2006, taking 62% of the vote in the four-way race. It was DeLay's weakest showing in a primary election, which prompted questions about whether he could win the general election. On April 3, 2006, three days after his former aide Tony Rudy pleaded guilty to various charges of corruption relating to the Jack Abramoff scandal, DeLay announced that he would withdraw from the race.\n\nUnder Texas law, it was too late for the Republican Party to select another candidate for the 2006 general election. DeLay announced on August 8, 2006 that he would withdraw in order to allow the party to organize a campaign for a write-in candidate. Texas Governor Rick Perry announced on August 29, 2006 that a special election would take place for the remainder of DeLay's term (November 2006 to January 2007).\n\nThe Texas Republican Party supported Houston City Councilwoman Shelley Sekula-Gibbs as their write-in candidate. Lampson chose not to run in the special election. Sekula-Gibbs won and was sworn in on November 13, 2006. She represented the district for the remaining few weeks of the 109th United States Congress. Sekula-Gibbs promised to fix health care, taxes, and immigration.\n\nDue to DeLay's late announcement, no Republican was listed on the ballot for the two-year term that began in January 2007.\n\nThe special election was held concurrently with the general election on November 7, 2006. Voters cast votes twice on that date, once for the special election, once for the general election. This arrangement ensured that Sekula-Gibbs's name appeared on a November 7 ballot.\n\nLampson won the general election was sworn in on January 4, 2007.\n\nIn addition to Sekula-Gibbs, the following candidates ran in the Republican primary:\n\nPete Olson and Nick Lampson faced each other in 2008 general election, a faced each other in 2008 general electionlong with John Wieder, Libertarian, Vietnam veteran, retired businessman, and community volunteer.\n\nPete Olson won the general election on November 4, 2008, and was sworn into office in January 2009.\n\nIn 2010, Olson defeated Kesha Rogers, a LaRouche Movement supporter, in the general election on November 2, 2010.\n\nTwo-term Republican incumbent Pete Olson sought re-election. He was challenged in the primary by conservative newspaper columnist Barbara Carlson, ultimately winning 76 percent of the vote.\n\nKesha Rogers, a political activist with ties to the Lyndon LaRouche movement, won the Democratic Party's nomination by 103 votes. Rogers was the party's candidate in 2010 as well, and was disavowed by some local Democrats for her controversial platform, which included impeaching President Obama and colonizing outer space.\n\nDon Cook ran as the Green Party candidate.\n\nThe incumbent, Republican Pete Olson, represented the district since 2009. Democrats Frank Briscoe and Mark Gibson ran for their party's nomination; Briscoe won with 53.18% of the vote. Libertarian Rob Lapham ran in the election. Olson was reelected with 66.55% of the vote.\n\nThe incumbent, Republican Pete Olson, represented the district since 2009. Democrats Mark Gibson, who lost in his party's primary in 2014, and A. R. Hassan ran for their party's nomination; Gibson won the Democratic nomination this time, with 76.16% of the vote. Olson was reelected with 59.52% of the vote.\n\nAs of 2019, there are 4 people currently living who formerly represented Texas' 22nd congressional district.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2071919", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2071919", "title": "Kaye Adams", "text": "Kaye Adams\n\nKaye Adams (born 28 December 1962) is a Scottish television presenter and journalist, best known for being one of four anchors on ITV topical discussion show \"Loose Women\" from 1999 to 2006 and again from 2013 in which she left to become a regular panellist on Channel 5's daily morning show The Wright Stuff from 2007 until 2012. \n\nShe hosts the morning show on BBC Radio Scotland weekdays from 9am to 12pm.\n\nAdams attended Grange Middle school in Grangemouth and Grangemouth High before moving to the fee-paying St George's School, Edinburgh and the University of Edinburgh, from which she graduated with an MA Honours in Economics and Politics.\n\nAdams started her media career as a graduate trainee at Central Television, concentrating on political and news journalism - her first coup was a one-hour interview with Margaret Thatcher. For the next few years, Adams remained focused on hard news when in early 1988 moved to Scottish Television's nightly news programme, \"Scotland Today\". She was one of the first journalists on the scene of the Lockerbie disaster in 1988. In 1992, a chance opportunity to host a discussion show for Scottish Television after its original anchor Sheena McDonald left, set her off on a different path. \"Scottish Women\" ran for six years under Adams chair (1993–99), and won a number of awards and marked the start of Adams' career as a talk show host.\n\nIn March 2010, Adams joined BBC Radio Scotland to become the host of daily phone-in programme, \"Call Kaye\". The show ended in 2015, and was then replaced by the launch of \"The Kaye Adams Show\", which runs every weekday from 9am to 12pm. Kaye is often covered for by a guest host, particularly on a Friday, due to her work on \"Loose Women\".\n\nAdams has been a columnist for the \"Daily Record\". \n\nSince her original success with \"Scottish Women\", Adams has presented \"ITV Weekend Live\", three series of \"Central Weekend Live\" with Nicky Campbell and John Stapleton; \"Esther\", latterly \"Kaye\" for BBC Two; and \"Pride and Prejudice\" for BBC Scotland. Adams co-presented the last ever \"This Morning\" before Richard and Judy left, while in 2002 she was \"This Morning's\" daily live anchor from Australia, reporting on the first series of \"I'm a Celebrity, Get Me Out of Here!\". She has also appeared on Lily Savage's Blankety Blank.\n\nBetween 1999 and 2006, Adams anchored the ITV talk show, \"Loose Women\" where, combined with the rest of the female panel, she created a popular and engaging mix of topical issues and entertainment. On 5 November 2013, Adams returned to the panel in rotation with Carol Vorderman and Andrea McLean. In January 2014, former Loose Woman Ruth Langsford returned to co-anchor the programme with Adams, Vorderman and McLean in rotation. Vorderman left the show in July 2014.\n\nAdams has also presented a daytime show called \"The People Versus\". as well as appearing as a panellist and latterly as chair of \"Have I Got News for You\".\n\nBetween 2007 and 2010, Adams regularly guest hosted and was a panellist on the Channel 5 panel show \"The Wright Stuff\".\n\nIn late 2008, Adams narrated a six-part documentary series \"The Merchant Navy\" on STV.\n\nOn 26 May 2009, Adams returned to STV, more than 20 years after her first appearance on the station, as a guest co-host on the lifestyle programme \"The Hour\" with Stephen Jardine. Adams presented four shows. In August of that year, Adams joined a long team of reporters on \"The One Show\".\n\nHaving reported on the Lockerbie bombing in 1988 for STV, Adams narrated a special documentary, \"The Lockerbie Bomber: Sent Home to Die\" for the Scottish television channel which aired on 9 August 2010. The programme examined the Lockerbie bomber's conviction and the renewed controversy over the Scottish Government's decision to send him home to Libya on compassionate grounds a year earlier.\n\nSince 2011, she has guest presented Channel 5's \"LIVE with...\" programme.\n\nIn 2013, Adams co-hosted the daytime chat show \"Sunday Scoop\" with Nadia Sawalha.\n\nBoth Nadia Sawalha and Kaye Adams are represented by Nicola Ibison of Ibison Talent Group who acts as both their agent and management. Adams and Nadia Sawalha released a cookery book in 2018 called \"Nadia & Kaye: Disaster Chef\".\n\nAdams has been involved in controversy over the anti-Conservative tone of a programme she made for the BBC's \"The One Show\" and a similar intervention on Twitter from her holiday home in Tuscany in August 2011 regarding Boris Johnson and private education.\n\nAdams is a Scottish origin co-patron of Kindred, a Scottish-based charity supporting families of young people with disabilities and mental health issues. \n\n"}
{"id": "2071926", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2071926", "title": "Taposa", "text": "Taposa\n\nTaposa was an American Indian tribe located in the south of the United States, originating from the area that is now the state of Mississippi. Their earliest known location was on Yazoo River, near the Chakchiuma and Chickasaw tribes.\n\nThe original meaning of the name \"Taposa\" has been lost.\n"}
{"id": "2071928", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2071928", "title": "Chandelas of Jejakabhukti", "text": "Chandelas of Jejakabhukti\n\nThe Chandelas of Jejakabhukti were a royal dynasty in Central India. They ruled much of the Bundelkhand region (then called \"Jejakabhukti\") between the 9th and the 13th centuries.\n\nThe Chandelas initially ruled as feudatories of the Gurjara-Pratiharas of Kanyakubja (Kannauj). The 10th century Chandela ruler Yashovarman became practically independent, although he continued to acknowledge the Pratihara suzerainty. By the time of his successor Dhanga, the Chandelas had become a sovereign power. Their power rose and declined as they fought battles with the neighbouring dynasties, especially the Paramaras of Malwa and the Kalachuris of Tripuri. From the 11th century onwards, the Chandelas faced raids by the northern Muslim dynasties, including the Ghaznavids and the Ghurids. The Chandela power effectively ended around the beginning of the 13th century, following Chahamana and Ghurid invasions.\n\nThe Chandelas are well known for their art and architecture, most notably for the temples at their original capital Khajuraho. They also commissioned a number of temples, water bodies, palaces and forts at other places, including their strongholds of Ajaigarh, Kalinjar and their later capital Mahoba.\n\nThe origin of the Chandelas is obscured by mythical legends. The epigraphic records of the dynasty, as well as contemporary texts such as \"Balabhadra-vilasa\" and \"Prabodha-chandrodaya\", suggest that the Chandelas belonged to the legendary Lunar dynasty (\"Chandravansha\"). A 954 CE Khajuraho inscription states that the dynasty's first king Nannuka was a descendant of sage Chandratreya, who was a son of Atri. A 1002 CE Khajuraho inscription gives a slightly different account, in which Chandratreya is mentioned as a son of Indu (the Moon) and a grandson of Atri. The 1195 CE Baghari inscription and the 1260 CE Ajaygadh inscription contain similar mythical accounts. The \"Balabhadra-vilasa\" also names Atri among the ancestors of the Chandelas. Another Khajuraho inscription describes the Chandela king Dhanga as a member of the Vrishni clan of the Yadavas (who also claimed to be part of the Lunar dynasty).\n\nThe later medieval texts include Chandelas among the 36 Rajput clans. These include \"Mahoba-Khanda\", \"Varna Ratnakara\", \"Prithviraj Raso\" and \"Kumarapala-charita\". The \"Mahoba-Khanda\" legend of the dynasty's origin goes like this: Hemaraja, a priest of the Gaharwar king of Benares, had a beautiful daughter named Hemavati. Once, while Hemavati was bathing in a pond, the moon god Chandra saw her and made love to her. Hemavati was worried about the dishonour of being an unwed mother, but Chandra assured her that their son would become a great king. This child was the dynasty's progenitor Chandravarma. Chandra presented him with a philosopher's stone and taught him politics. The dynasty's own records do not mention Hemavati, Hemaraja or Indrajit. Such legends appear to be later bardic inventions. In general, the \"Mahoba-Khanda\" is a historically unreliable text.\n\nBritish indologist V. A. Smith theorized that the Chandelas were of either Bhar or Gond origin. Some other scholars including R. C. Majumdar also supported this theory. The Chandelas worshipped Maniya, a tribal goddess, whose temples are located at Mahoba and Maniyagadh. Besides, they have been associated with places that are also associated with Bhars and Gonds. Also, Rani Durgavati, whose family claimed Chandela descent married a Gond chief of Garha-Mandla. Historian R. K. Dikshit does not find these arguments convincing: he argues that Maniya was not a tribal deity. Also, the dynasty's association with Gond territory is not necessarily indicative of a common descent: the dynasty's progenitor may have been posted as a governor in these territories. Finally, Durgavati's marriage to a Gond chief can be dismissed as a one-off case.\n\nThe Chandelas were originally vassals of the Gurjara-Pratiharas. Nannuka (r. c. 831-845 CE), the founder of the dynasty, was the ruler of a small kingdom centered around Khajuraho.\n\nAccording to the Chandela inscriptions, Nannuka's successor Vakpati defeated several enemies. Vakpati's sons Jayashakti (Jeja) and Vijayashakti (Vija) consolidated the Chandela power. According to a Mahoba inscription, the Chandela territory was named \"Jejakabhukti\" after the Jayashakti. Vijayashakti's successor Rahila is credited with several military victories in eulogistic inscriptions. Rahila's son Harsha played an important role in restoring the rule of the Pratihara king Mahipala, possibly after a Rashtrakuta invasion or after Mahiapala's conflict with his step-brother Bhoja II.\n\nHarsha's son Yashovarman (r. c. 925-950 CE) continued to acknowledge the Pratihara suzerainty, but became practically independent. He conquered the important fortress of Kalanjara. A 953-954 CE Khajuraho inscription credits him with several other military successes, including against Gaudas (identified with the Palas), the Khasas, the Chedis (the Kalachuris of Tripuri), the Kosalas (possibly the Somavamshis), the Mithila (possibly a small tributary ruler), Malavas (identified with the Paramaras), the Kurus, the Kashmiris and the Gurjaras. These claims appear to be exaggerated, as similar claims of extensive conquests in northern India are also found in the records of the other contemporary kings such as the Kalachuri king Yuva-Raja and the Rashtrakuta king Krishna III. Yashovarman's reign marked the beginning of the famous Chandela-era art and architecture. He commissioned the Lakshmana Temple at Khajuraho.\n\nUnlike the earlier Chandela inscriptions, the records of Yashovarman's successor Dhanga (r. c. 950-999 CE) do not mention any Pratihara overlord. This indicates that Dhanga formally established the Chandela sovereignty. A Khajuraho inscription claims that the rulers of Kosala, Kratha (part of Vidarbha region), Kuntala, and Simhala listened humbly to the commands of Dhanga's officers. It also claims that the wives of the kings of Andhra, Anga, Kanchi and Raḍha resided in his prisons as a result of his success in wars. These appear to be eulogistic exaggerations by a court poet, but suggest that Dhanga did undertake extensive military campaigns. Like his predecessor, Dhanga also commissioned a magnificent temple at Khajuraho, which is identified as the Vishvanatha Temple.\n\nDhanga's successor Ganda appears to have retained the territory he inherited. His son Vidyadhara killed the Pratihara king of Kannauj (possibly Rajyapala) for fleeing his capital instead of fighting the Ghaznavid invader Mahmud of Ghazni. Mahmud later invaded Vidyadhara's kingdom; according to the Muslim invaders, this conflict ended with Vidyadhara paying tribute to Mahmud. Vidyadhara is noted for having commissioned the Kandariya Mahadeva Temple.\n\nThe Chandela art and architecture reached its zenith during this period. The Lakshmana Temple (c. 930–950 CE), the Vishvanatha Temple (c. 999-1002 CE) and the Kandariya Mahadeva Temple (c. 1030 CE) were constructed during the reigns of Yashovarman, Dhanga and Vidyadhara respectively. These Nagara-style temples are representative of the most fully developed style at Khajuraho.\n\nBy the end of Vidyadhara's reign, the Ghaznavid invasions had weakened the Chandela kingdom. Taking advantage of this, the Kalachuri king Gangeya-deva conquered eastern parts of the kingdom. Chandela inscriptions suggest that Vidyadhara's successor Vijayapala (r. c. 1035-1050 CE) defeated Gangeya in a battle. However, the Chandela power started declining during the Vijayapala's reign. The Kachchhapaghatas of Gwalior probably gave up their allegiance to the Chandelas during this period.\n\nVijayapala's elder son Devavavarman was subjugated by Gangeya's son Lakshmi-Karna. His younger brother Kirttivarman resurrected the Chandela power by defeating Lakshmi-Karna. Kirtivarman's son Sallakshanavarman achieved military successes against the Paramaras and the Kalachuris, possibly by raiding their territories. A Mau inscription suggests that he also conducted successful campaigns in the Antarvedi region (the Ganga-Yamuna doab). His son Jayavarman was of religious temperament and abdicated the throne after being tired of governance.\n\nJayavarman appears to have died heirless, as he was succeeded by his uncle Prithvivarman, the younger son of Kirttivarman. The Chandela inscriptions do not ascribe any military achievements to him; it appears that he was focused on maintaining the existing Chandela territories without adopting an aggressive expansionist policy.\n\nBy the time Prithvivarman's son Madanavarman (r. c. 1128–1165 CE) ascended the throne, the neighbouring Kalachuri and Paramara kingdoms had been weakened by enemy invasions. Taking advantage of this situation, Madanavarman defeated the Kalachuri king Gaya-Karna, and possibly annexed the northern part of the Baghelkhand region. However, the Chandelas lost this territory to Gaya-Karna's successor Narasimha. Madanavarman also captured the territory on the western periphery of the Paramara kingdom, around Bhilsa (Vidisha). This probably happened during the reign of the Paramara king Yashovarman or his son Jayavarman. Once again, the Chandelas could not retain the newly annexed territory for long, and the region was recaptured by Yashovarman's son Lakshmivarman.\n\nJayasimha Siddharaja, the Chaulukya king of Gujarat, also invaded the Paramara territory, which was located between the Chandela and the Chaulukya kingdoms. This brought him in conflict with Madanavarman. The result of this conflict appears to have been inconclusive, as records of both the kingdoms claim victory. A Kalanjara inscription suggests that Madanavarman defeated Jayasimha. On the other hand, the various chronicles of Gujarat claim that Jayasimha either defeated Madanavarman or extracted a tribute from him. Madanavarman maintained friendly relations with his northern neighbours, the Gahadavalas.\n\nMadanavarman's son Yashovarman II either did not rule, or ruled for a very short time. Madanavarman's grandson Paramardi-deva was the last powerful Chandela king.\n\nParamardi (reigned c. 1165-1203 CE) ascended the Chandela throne at a young age. While the early years of his reign were peaceful, around 1182-1183 CE, the Chahamana ruler Prithviraj Chauhan invaded the Chandela kingdom. According to the medieval legendary ballads, Prithviraj's army lost its way after a surprise attack by Turkic forces, and unknowingly camped at the Chandela capital Mahoba. This led to a brief conflict between the Chandelas and the Chauhans, before Prithviraj left for Delhi. Sometime later, Prithviraj invaded the Chandela kingdom and sacked Mahoba. Paramardi cowardly took shelter in the Kalanjara fort. The Chandela force, led by Alha, Udal and other generals, was defeated in this battle. According to the various ballads, Paramardi either committed suicide out of shame or retired to Gaya.\n\nPrithviraj Chauhan's raid of Mahoba is corroborated by his Madanpur stone inscriptions. However, there are several instances of historical inaccuracies in the bardic legends. For example, it is known that Paramardi did not retire or die immediately after the Chauhan victory. He restored the Chandela power, and ruled as a sovereign until around 1202-1203 CE, when the Ghurid governor of Delhi invaded the Chandela kingdom. According to \"Taj-ul-Maasir\", a chronicle of the Delhi Sultanate, Paramardi surrendered to the Delhi forces. He promised to pay tribute to the Sultan, but died before he could keep this promise. His dewan offered some resistance to the invading forces, but was ultimately subdued. The 16th century historian Firishta states that Paramardi was assassinated by his own minister, who disagreed with the king's decision to surrender to the Delhi forces.\n\nThe Chandela power did not fully recover from their defeat against the Delhi forces. Paramardi was succeeded by Trailokyavarman, Viravarman and Bhojavarman. The next ruler Hammiravarman (r. c. 1288-1311 CE) did not use the imperial title Maharajadhiraja, which indicates that the Chandela king had a lower status by his time. The Chandela power continued to decline because of the rising Muslim influence, as well as the rise of other local dynasties, such as the Bundelas, the Baghelas and the Khangars.\n\nHammiravarman was succeeded by Viravarman II, whose titles do not indicate a high political status. One minor branch of the family continued ruling Kalanjara: its ruler was killed by Sher Shah Suri's army in 1545 CE. Another minor branch ruled at Mahoba: Durgavati, one of its princesses married into the Gond royal family of Mandla. Some other ruling families also claimed Chandela descent (see Chandel).\n\nThe Chandelas are well known for their art and architecture. They commissioned a number of temples, water bodies, palaces and forts at various places. The most famous example of their cultural achievements are the Hindu and Jain temples at Khajuraho. Three other important Chandela strongholds were Jayapura-Durga (modern Ajaigarh), Kalanjara (modern Kalinjar) and Mahotsava-Nagara (modern Mahoba).\n\nOther smaller Chandela sites include Chandpur, Deogarh, Dudahi, Kakadeo and Madanpur.\n\n<mapframe text=\"Chandela territory, as indicated by the find spots of inscriptions issued during the Chandela reign\" width=\"400\" height=\"400\" zoom=\"5\" longitude=\"80.5\" latitude=\"25.5\">\n</mapframe>\nBased on epigraphic records, the historians have come up with the following list of Chandela rulers of Jejākabhukti (IAST names in brackets):\n\n"}
{"id": "2071930", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2071930", "title": "Laser guns", "text": "Laser guns\n\nLaser guns describe guns converted from their regular ammunition to using lasers to hit reflective targets. These have been used in clay shooting and were suggested for use in the Modern pentathlon at the 2012 Summer Olympics after a successful trial at the 2010 Summer Youth Olympics in Singapore.\nUse of these laser guns opens up new venues for gun sports because of the increased levels of safety. Although more powerful guns that pose a danger do exist \n\n\n"}
{"id": "2071932", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2071932", "title": "Phosphoric acids and phosphates", "text": "Phosphoric acids and phosphates\n\nA phosphoric acid, in the general sense, is a phosphorus oxoacid in which each phosphorus atom is in the oxidation state +5, and is bonded to four oxygen atoms, one of them through a double bond, arranged as the corners of a tetrahedron. Two or more of these tetrahedra may be connected by shared single-bonded oxygens, forming linear or branched chains, cycles, or more complex structures. The single-bonded oxygen atoms that are not shared are completed with acidic hydrogen atoms. The general formula of a phosphoric acid is HPO, where \"n\" is the number of phosphorus atoms and \"x\" is the number of fundamental cycles in the molecule's structure, between 0 and (\"n\"+2)/2. \n\nRemoval of protons from \"k\" hydroxyl groups –OH leaves anions generically called phosphates (if \"k\" = \"n\"−2\"x\"+2) or hydrogen phosphates (if \"k\" is between 1 and \"n\"−2\"x\"+1), with general formula [HPO]. The fully dissociated anion (\"k\" = \"n\"−2\"x\"+2) has formula [PO] is The term is also used in organic chemistry for the functional groups that result when or more of the hydrogens are replaced by bonds to other groups.\n\nThese acids, together with their salts and esters, include some of the best-known compounds of phosphorus, of high importance in biochemistry, mineralogy, agriculture, pharmacy, chemical industry, and chemical research.\n\nThe simplest and most commonly encountered of the phosphoric acids is orthophosphoric acid, HPO. Indeed, the term phosphoric acid often means this compound specifically (and this is also the current IUPAC nomenclature).\n\nTwo or more orthophosphoric acid molecules can be joined by condensation into larger molecules by elimination of water. Condensation of a few units yields the so-called oligophosphoric acids, while larger molecules are called polyphosphoric acids. (However, the distinction between the two terms is not well defined.)\n\nFor example, pyrophosphoric, tripolyphosphoric, and tetrapolyphosphoric acids can be obtained by the reactions\n\nThe \"backbone\" of a polyphosphoric acid molecule is a chain of alternating P and O atoms. Each extra orthophosphoric unit that is condensed adds 1 extra H (hydrogen) atom, 1 extra P (phosphorus) atom, and 3 extra O (oxygen) atoms. The general formula of a polyphosphoric acid is or HO(–P(O)(OH)–O–)H. \n\nPolyphosphoric acids are used in organic synthesis for cyclizations and acylations.\n\nCondensation between two –OH units of the same molecule, on the other hand, eliminates two hydrogen atoms and one oxygen atom, creating a cycle, as in the formation of trimetaphosphoric acid:\n\nThe general formula of a phosphoric acid is HPO, where \"n\" is the number of phosphorus atoms and \"x\" is the number of fundamental cycles in the molecule's structure; that is, the minimum number of bonds that would have to be broken to eliminate all cycles.\n\nThe limiting case of internal condensation, where all oxygen atoms are shared and there are no hydrogen atoms (\"x\" = (\"n\"+2)/2) would a anhydride PO, such as phosphorus pentoxide .\nRemoval of the hydrogen atoms as protons turns a phosphoric acid into a phosphate anion. Partial removal yields various hydrogen phosphate anions.\n\nThe anions of orthophosphoric acid are orthophosphate , hydrogen phosphate , and dihydrogen phosphate \n\nDissociation of pyrophosphoric acid generates four anions, , where the charge \"k\" ranges from 1 to 4. The last one is pyrophosphate . The pyrophosphates are mostly water-soluble. \n\nLikewise, tripolyphosphoric acid yields at least five anions , where \"k\" ranges from 1 to 5, including tripolyphosphate . Tetrapolyphosphoric acid yields at least six anions, including tetrapolyphosphate . And so on. Note that each extra phosphoric unit adds one extra P atom, three extra oxygen atoms, and either one extra hydrogen atom or an extra negative charge. \n\nBranched polyphosphoric acids give similarly branched polyphosphate anions. The simplest example of this is triphosphono phosphate and its partially dissociated versions.\n\nThe general formula for such (non-cyclic) polyphosphate anions, linear or branched, is , where the charge \"k\" may vary from 1 to \"n\"+2. Generally in an aqueous solution, the degree or percentage of dissociation depends on the pH of the solution. \n\nThe phosphoric acid units can be bonded together in rings (cyclic structures) forming metaphosphoric acid molecules. The simplest such compound is trimetaphosphoric acid or cyclo-triphosphoric acid having the formula HPO. Its structure is shown in the illustration. Since the ends are condensed, its formula has one less HO (water) than tripolyphosphoric acid. What are commonly called trimetaphosphates actually have a mixture of ring sizes. A general formula for such cyclic compounds is (HPO) where x = number of phosphoric units in the molecule. The hypothetical monomer monometaphosphoric acid (HPO), which would be valence isoelectronic with nitric acid, is not known to exist.\n\nWhen these metaphosphoric acids lose their hydrogens as H, cyclic anions called metaphosphates are formed. An example of a compound with such an anion is sodium hexametaphosphate (NaPO), used as a sequestrant and a food additive.\n\nThese phosphoric acids series are generally water-soluble considering the polarity of the molecules. Ammonium and alkali phosphates are also quite soluble in water. The alkaline earth salts start becoming less soluble and phosphate salts of various other metals are even less soluble. \nIn aqueous solutions (solutions of water), water gradually (over the course of hours) hydrolyzes polyphosphates into smaller phosphates and finally into ortho-phosphate, given enough water. Higher temperature or acidic conditions can speed up the hydrolysis reactions considerably.\n\nConversely, polyphosphoric acids or polyphosphates are often formed by dehydrating a phosphoric acid solution; in other words, removing water from it often by heating and evaporating the water off.\n\nOrtho-, pyro-, and tripolyphosphate compounds have been commonly used in detergents (i. e. cleaners) formulations. For example, see Sodium tripolyphosphate. Sometimes pyrophosphate, tripolyphosphate, tetrapolyphosphate, etc. are called diphosphate, triphosphate, tetraphosphate, etc., especially when they are part of phosphate esters in biochemistry. They are also used for scale and corrosion control by potable water providers. As a corrosion inhibitor, polyphosphates work by forming a protective film on the interior surface of pipes.\n\nThe -OH groups in phosphoric acids can also condense with the hydroxyl groups of alcohols to form phosphate esters. Since orthophosphoric acid has three -OH groups, it can esterify with one, two, or three alcohol molecules to form a mono-, di-, or triester. See the general structure image of an ortho- (or mono-) phosphate ester below on the left, where any of the R groups can be a hydrogen or an organic radical. Pyro- (or di-) phosphate esters and tripoly- (or tri-) phosphate esters, etc. are also possible. Any -OH groups on the phosphates in these ester molecules may lose H ions to form anions, again depending on the pH in a solution. In the biochemistry of living organisms, there are many kinds of (mono)phosphate, diphosphate, and triphosphate compounds (essentially esters), many of which play a significant role in metabolism such as adenosine diphosphate (ADP) and triphosphate (ATP).\n\n"}
{"id": "2071935", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2071935", "title": "Hsin Ping", "text": "Hsin Ping\n\nHsin Ping () (30 June 1938 - 7 April 1995) was the fourth and fifth abbot of Fo Guang Shan and the dharma heir to Hsing Yun, founder of Fo Guang Shan.\n\nVenerable Hsin Ping entered the Buddhist sangha in 1963. Hsin Ping went on to receive the precepts under Master Tao Yuan of Hai Hui Temple in Keelung in 1963, and went on to attend Shou Shan Buddhist College and the Chinese Buddhist Research Institute at Fo Guang Shan. For lengths of time during the earliest days of Fo Guang Shan, Hsin Ping was stationed in the construction quarters. In 1973, he became first in line of Fo Guang Shan's order of precedence.\n\nIn April 1995, Hsin Ping died suddenly after suffering from illness. A portion of his ashes are interred in the United States at the Buddhist columbarium at Rose Hills in California, the rest are in the Longevity Memorial Park in Fo Guang Shan.\n\nThe Venerable Hsin Ting served the rest of Hsin Ping's term until 1997, when he was elected head abbot.\n"}
{"id": "2071938", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2071938", "title": "Seven Natural Wonders", "text": "Seven Natural Wonders\n\nSeven Natural Wonders is a television series that was broadcast on BBC Two from 3 May to 20 June 2005. The programme takes an area of England each week and, from votes by the people living in that area, shows the 'seven natural wonders' of that area in a programme.\n\nThe programmes were:\n\nThe series covered eight regions of England, having originated as a 'local' television project.\n\nThere was also a series, looking at a similar selection of 'man-made' wonders for each of eleven regions of England.\n\n"}
{"id": "2071962", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2071962", "title": "Little cuckoo", "text": "Little cuckoo\n\nThe little cuckoo (\"Coccycua minuta\") is a species of bird in the cuckoo family (Cuculidae) from South America and Panama. It was formerly placed in the genus \"Piaya\", but was moved to the reinstated genus \"Coccycua\" following the discovery that its closest living relatives are a couple species traditionally placed in \"Coccyzus\" or \"Micrococcyx\", rather than the other members of \"Piaya\".\n\nThis species is about long and weighs . The adult is mainly chestnut brown, with a greyish lower belly, browner tail and white tips to the tail feathers. The bill is yellow, short, and decurved; the iris of the eyes is red. Immature birds are dark brown with a black bill and no white tail tips. It is smaller and the throat is darker than in the squirrel cuckoo.\n\nThe little cuckoo makes harsh \"chek\" and \"kak\" calls.\n\nThis small cuckoo occurs from Panama and Trinidad south through Colombia to Bolivia, Peru and Brazil; in Ecuador, it has been recorded as high up as ASL. The little cuckoo is found in mangrove swamps, and scrubby woodland near water. It is generally believed to be an all-year resident, but its irregular occurrence in some areas has led to speculations that it undertakes seasonal short-distance migrations. Fairly widely distributed and not particularly rare, it is not considered a threatened species by the IUCN.\n\nThis is a shy species which tends to keep to cover as it forages in low branches for insects and other arthropods. The female lays two white eggs in a deep cup nest in a tree or bamboo. Like most American cuckoos, it incubates the eggs itself.\n\n"}
{"id": "2071963", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2071963", "title": "Apostolic Church (denomination)", "text": "Apostolic Church (denomination)\n\nThe Apostolic Church is a Christian denomination and Pentecostal movement that arose from the Welsh Revival. The term \"Apostolic\" represents the denomination's belief that church government is to be exercised through the New Testament ministry of apostles (working in conjunction with New Testament prophets) in order to experience the same kind of leadership as that exercised by the original apostles who followed Christ. Gaining world-wide attention in the 1904–1905 Welsh Revival, it seeks to stand for first-century Christianity in its faith, practices, and government.\n\nIn 1911, William Oliver Hutchinson founded the Apostolic Faith Church denomination, in Bournemouth, England. \n\nOn 8 January 1916, Daniel Powell Williams and a number of the Welsh assemblies separated from Hutchinson and the Apostolic Faith Church over doctrinal matters, creating the Apostolic Church in Wales (ACW). Since 1916, the two groups have developed along very different doctrinal paths.\n\nIn 1917 a second group centred on Birmingham affiliated to the ACW. The following year the Burning Bush Pentecostal Congregation in Glasgow, came into co-operation with the ACW but remained independent. In the same year, a group using the name \"Apostolic Church\" in Hereford also came into co-operation with the ACW.\n\nIn 1920, Ben Fisher, who was the leader of an independent Pentecostal congregation in Belfast, Northern Ireland, invited Williams to minister in his church. The group then affiliated to the ACW becoming their first mission field.\n\nH V Chanter was the leader of the Apostolic Church of God (ACG); a large group of Pentecostal congregations headquartered in Bradford. During 1921, Chanter attended the Christmas convention of the ACW in Pen-y-groes, Carmarthenshire. A prophetic word given in Bradford directed the leaders to invite the Welsh leaders to join them for a meeting. They met 1922, with another wider meeting arranged for Easter. At the Easter convention, leaders from most of the ACW congregations and those affiliated with them met in Bradford.\n\nThe 1922 Easter meeting in Bradford was the beginning of the Apostolic Church. Four main groups attended: the Apostolic Church in Wales; the Burning Bush congregation; the Apostolic Church in Hereford; and the Apostolic Church of God. A prophetic word directed them to form an administrative union: Pen-y-groes was to be the administrative centre; Glasgow, the financial centre; and Bradford the missionary centre.\n\nIn 2016, the denomination had 15 million members in 90 countries. \n\nThe Apostolic Church views the Scriptures as the supreme authority and understands them to be the inerrant Word of God. The soteriology of the Apostolic Church is neither uniformly Reformed nor Arminian. Ecclesiology has taken a prominent place in the theology of the movement. The Church is defined as the Body of Christ and the headship of Christ is given prominence. Christ is seen to express his headship through the ascension ministries of apostles, prophets, evangelists, pastors and teachers. \n\nIts theological beliefs are summarised in its confession of faith, known as the \"Tenets\", which read as follows:\n\nThe Constitution of the Apostolic Church in the United Kingdom states that \"These Tenets shall forever be the doctrinal standard of the Apostolic Church and shall not be subject to change in any way whatsoever.\"\n\nAblaze UK (formerly The International Apostolic Convention) has taken place annually over the first week in August since 1916. Until 2002 it was held in Pen-y-groes, Carmarthenshire. From 2003 to 2011 it was held in Swansea, and from 2012 the convention has taken place in Cheltenham.\n\nPen-y-groes is the site of the Apostolic Church School of Ministry (founded as the Apostolic Church International Bible School in 1933), the oldest Pentecostal college in Great Britain. The College is currently closed and the facilities are now being used by a Korean Church as a Bible College. It has also been used as a rehab centre for Teen Challenge.\n\nThere are now also Bible Schools in eleven other countries.\n\nEquippers Churches, and Activate Churches form significant networks of churches within The ACTS Churches New Zealand Movement (formerly the Apostolic Church of New Zealand) that is currently under the leadership of Ps Sam Monk. Equippers Churches form a global network of local churches, with individual churches in New Zealand, Tonga, Germany, Switzerland, the United Kingdom, Philippines, the United States and Italy. The Equippers Church network comes under the leadership of Ps Sam and Kathy Monk. Activate Churches is another network within ACTS churches led by Ps Sheridyn and Jan Rodgers based in Hamilton.\n\nIn the past the standard hymnal of the Apostolic Church has been the Redemption Hymnal, which was produced by a joint committee from the Apostolic Church, the Elim Pentecostal Church, and the Assemblies of God in Great Britain and Ireland. \"Molwch Dduw\" was the hymnal used in Welsh language Apostolic assemblies and contained many hymns by D.P. Williams and other early Apostolic figures. Another hymnal, \"Hymns at the Holy Table\", was produced by Ian MacPherson for use in the Apostolic Church and other British Pentecostal assemblies at the Breaking of Bread. Chorus books, such as \"Gospel Quintet Choruses\", \"Gates of Praise\", and \"Glorious Vision Melodies\", were also frequently published during the course of the 20th Century.\n\n"}
{"id": "2071970", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2071970", "title": "Noocracy", "text": "Noocracy\n\nNoocracy ( or ), or \"aristocracy of the wise\", as originally defined by Plato, is a system of governance where decision making is in the hands of philosophers, similar to his idea of Philosopher kings. The idea was further expanded upon by geologist Vladimir Vernadsky, and philosophers (who attended Vernadsky's lectures) Pierre Teilhard de Chardin and Édouard Le Roy, and their concept of the Noosphere.\n\nThe word itself is derived from Greek \"nous\", Gen. \"noos\" () meaning \"mind\" or \"intellect\", and \"kratos\" (), \"authority\" or \"power\".\n\nOne of the first attempts to implement such a political system was perhaps Pythagoras' \"city of the wise\" that he planned to build in Italy together with his followers, the order of \"mathematikoi\". In modern history, similar concepts were introduced by Vladimir Vernadsky, who did not use this term, but the term \"noosphere\".\n\nAs defined by Plato, noocracy is considered to be the future political system for the entire human race, replacing democracy (\"the authority of the crowd\") and other forms of government.\n\nMikhail Epstein defined noocracy as \"the thinking matter increases its mass in nature and geo- and biosphere grow into noosphere, the future of the humanity can be envisioned as noocracy—that is the power of the collective brain rather than separate individuals representing certain social groups or society as whole\".\n\nSupporters of the noocratic theory mainly depart from the empirical evidence that most voters in modern democracies are largely ignorant, misinformed and irrational. Therefore, \"one person one vote\" mechanism proposed by democracy cannot be used to produce efficient policy outcomes, for which the transfer of power to a smaller, informed and rational group would be more appropriate. The irrationality of voters inherent in democracies can be explained by two major behavioral and cognitive patterns. Firstly, most of the voters think that the marginal contribution of their vote will not make a difference on election outcomes; therefore, they do not find it useful to inform themselves on political matters. In other terms, due to the required time and effort of acquiring new information, voters rationally prefer to remain ignorant. Moreover, it has been shown that most citizens process political information in deeply biased, partisan, motivated ways rather than in dispassionate, rational ways. This psychological phenomenon causes voters to strongly identify themselves with a certain political group, specifically find evidence to support arguments aligning with their preferred ideological inclinations, and eventually vote with a high level of bias.\n\nIrrational political behaviors of voters prevent them from making calculated choices and opting for the right policy proposals. On the other hand, many political experiments have shown that as voters get more informed, they tend to support better policies, demonstrating that acquisition of information has a direct impact on rational voting. For example, Martin Gilens notes in his research that low-income democrats tend to have more intolerant thoughts pertinent to LGBT rights, whereas high-income democrats have the opposite preferences. Moreover, supporters of noocracy see a greater danger in the fact that politicians will actually prefer to implement the policy decisions of citizens to win elections and stabilize their power, without paying particular attention to the content and further outcomes of these policies. In democracies, the problem is thus not only that voters are prone to make bad policy decisions, but also that politicians are incentivized to implement these policies due to personal benefits. Therefore, noocrats argue that it makes sense to limit the voting power of citizens in order to prevent bad policy outcomes. Noocracy has still a code of conduct to pursue philanthropy like initiatives.\n\nAccording to noocrats, given the complex nature of political decisions, it is not reasonable to assume that a citizen would have the necessary knowledge to decide on means to achieve their political aims. In general, political actions require a lot of social scientific knowledge from various fields, such as economics, sociology, international relations, and public policy; however, an ordinary voter is hardly specialized enough in any of those fields to make the optimal decision. To address this issue, Christiano proposes a ruling system based on division of political labor, in which citizens set the agenda for political discussions and determine the aims of the society, whereas legislators are in charge of deciding on the means to achieve these aims. For noocrats, transferring the decision-making mechanism to a body of specifically trained, specialized and experienced body is expected to result in superior and more efficient policy outcomes. Recent economic success of some countries that have a sort of noocratic ruling element provides basis for this particular argument in favor of noocracy.\n\nFor instance, Singapore has a political system that favors meritocracy; the path to government in Singapore is structured in such a way that only those with above-average skills are identified with strict university-entrance exams, recruiting processes, etc., and then rigorously trained to be able to devise best the solutions that benefit the entire society. In the words of country’s founding father, Lee Kuan Yew, Singapore is a society based on effort and merit, not wealth or privilege depending on birth. This system primarily works due to citizens’ belief that political leaders tend to have a better understanding of country’s long-term plans than themselves; therefore, as they see positive policy outcomes, they tend to go along with the system, rather than complain about the meritocratic dimensions. For example, most citizens praise their government in Singapore, stating that it managed to transform Singapore from a third world country to a developed economy, and that it successfully fostered loyalty in its citizens towards the country and gave birth to a unique concept of Singaporean citizenship despite a great level of ethnic diversity. In order to develop further Singapore’s technocratic system, some thinkers, like Parag Khanna, have proposed for the country to adapt a model of direct technocracy, demanding citizen input in essential matters through online polls, referenda, etc., and asking for a committee of experts to analyze this data to determine the best course of action.\n\nNoocracies, like technocracies, have been criticized for meritocratic failings, such as upholding of a non-egalitarian aristocratic ruling class. Others have upheld more democratic ideals as better epistemic models of law and policy. Noocracy criticisms come in multiple forms, two of which are those focused on the efficacy of noocracies and the political viability of them.\n\nCriticisms of noocracy in all its forms – including technocracy, meritocracy, and epistocracy (the focus of Jason Brennan's oft-cited book) – range from support of direct democracy instead to proposed alterations to our consideration of representation in democracy. Professor Hélène Landemore, while arguing for representatives to effectively enact legislation important to the polity, criticizes conceptions of representation that aim especially to remove the people from the process of making decisions, and thereby nullify their political power. Noocracy, especially as it is conceived in Jason Brennan's \"Against Democracy\", aims specifically to separate the people from the decision on the basis of the immensely superior knowledge of officials who will presumably make superior decisions to laypeople.\n\nJason Brennan's epistocracy, specifically, is at odds with democracy and with certain criteria for democracies that theorists have proposed. Robert Dahl's \"Polyarchy\" sets out certain rules for democracies that govern many people and the rights that the citizens must be granted. His demand that the government not discriminatorily heed the preferences of full members of the polity is abridged by Brennan's \"restricted suffrage\" and \"plural voting\" schemes of epistocracy. In the eighth chapter of his book, Brennan posits a system of graduated voting power that gives people more votes based on established levels of education achieved, with the amount of additional votes granted to a hypothetical citizen increasing at each level, from turning sixteen to completing high school, a bachelor's degree, a master's degree, and so forth. Dahl wrote, however, that any democracy that rules over a large group of people must accept and validate \"alternative sources of information.\" Granting the full powers of citizenship based on a system like formal education attainment does not account for the other ways that people can consume information, is the commonly cited argument, and still eschews consideration for the uneducated within a group.\n\nNoocracy also receives criticism for its claims to efficiency. Brennan writes that one of the many reasons that common people cannot be trusted to make decisions for the state is because reasoning is commonly motivated, and, therefore, people decide what policies to support based on their connection to those proposing and supporting the measures, not based on what's most effective. He contrasts real people with the ultra-reasonable vulcan that he mentions throughout the book. That vulcan reflects Plato's philosopher king and, in a more realistic sense, the academic elites whom Michael Yong satirized in his essay \"The Rise of the Meritocracy\". Modern political theorists don't necessarily denounce a biased viewpoint in politics, however, though those biases are not written about as they are commonly considered. Professor Landemore utilizes the existence of cognitive diversity to argue that any group of people that represents great diversity in their approaches to problem-solving (cognition) is more likely to succeed than groups that do not. She further illustrates her point by employing the example of a New Haven task force made up of private citizens of many careers, politicians, and police who needed to reduce crime on a bridge without lighting, and they all used different aspects of their experiences to discover the solution that was to install solar lamps on the bridge. That solution has proven effective, with not a single mugging reported there since the lamp installation as of November 2010. Her argument lies mainly in the refutation of noocratic principles, for they do not utilize the increased problem solving skill of a diverse pool, when the political system because as debate between elites alone, and not a debate between the whole polity.\n\nTo some theorists, noocracy is built on a fantasy that will uphold current structures of elite power, while maintaining its inefficacy. Writing for the \"New Yorker\", Caleb Crain notes that there's little to say that the vulcans that Brennan exalt actually exist. Crain mentions a study that appears in Brennan's book that shows that even those who have proven that they have superb skills in mathematics do not employ those skills if their use threatens their already-held political belief. While Brennan utilized that study to demonstrate how deeply rooted political tribalism is in all people, Crain drew on this study to question the very nature of an epistocratic body that can make policy with a greater regard to knowledge and truth than the ordinary citizen can. The only way to correct for that seems, to many, to be to widen the circle of deliberation (as discussed above) because policy decisions that were made with more input and approval from the people last longer and even garner the agreement of the experts. To further illustrate that experts, too, are flawed, Cairn enumerates some of the expert-endorsed political decisions that he has deemed failures in recent years: \"invading Iraq, having a single European currency, grinding subprime mortgages into the sausage known as collateralized debt obligations.\"\n\nWith the contention around the reasoning for those political decisions, political theorist David Estlund posited what he considered to be one of the prime arguments against epistocracy – bias in choosing voters. His fear was that the method by which voters, and voters' quantity of votes, was chosen might be biased in a way that people had not been able to identify and could not, therefore, rectify. Even the aspects of the modes of selecting voters that are known cause many theorists concern, as both Brennan and Cairn note that the majority of poor black women would be excluded from the enfranchised polity and risk seeing their needs represented even less than they currently are.\n\nProponents of democracy attempt to show that noocracy is intrinsically unjust on two dimensions, stating its unfairness and bad results. The former states that since people with different income levels and education backgrounds have unequal access to information, the epistocratic legislative body will be naturally composed of citizens with higher economic status, and thus fail to equally represent different demographics of the society. The latter argument is about the policy outcomes; since there will be a demographic overrepresentation and underrepresentation in the noocratic body, the system will produce unjust outcomes, favoring the demographically advantaged group. Brennan defends noocracy against these two criticisms, presenting a rationale for the system.\n\nAs a rejection of the unfairness argument put forward by democrats, Brennan argues that the voting electorate in modern democracies is also demographically disproportionate; based on empirical studies, it has been demonstrated that voters coming from privileged background, such as white, middle aged, higher-income men, tend to vote at a higher rate than other demographic groups. Although de jure every group has same right to vote under \"one person one vote\" assumption, de facto practices show that privileged people have more influence on election results. As a result, the representatives will not match the demographics of the society either, for which democracy seems to be unjust in practice. With the right of type of noocracy, the unfairness effect can actually be minimized; for instance, enfranchisement lottery, in which a legislative electorate is selected at random by lottery, and then incentivized to become competent to address political issues, illustrates a fair representation methodology thanks to its randomness.\n\nTo refute the latter claim, Brennan states that voters do not vote selfishly; in other terms, the advantaged group does not attempt to undermine the interests of the minority group. Therefore, the worry that noocratic bodies that are demographically more skewed towards the advantaged group make decisions in favor of the advantaged one fails. According to Brennan, noocracy can serve in a way that improves the welfare of the overall community, rather than certain individuals.\n\n"}
{"id": "2071978", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2071978", "title": "Chandel", "text": "Chandel\n\nChandel may refer to:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2071991", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2071991", "title": "Chuck Behler", "text": "Chuck Behler\n\nCharles Conrad \"Chuck\" Behler (; born June 13, 1965) is an American musician who played drums for the heavy metal band Megadeth from 1987 through 1989, recording the album \"So Far, So Good… So What!\" with the group in 1988. He also appeared in the 1988 rockumentary \"\".\n\nBandleader Dave Mustaine knew Behler because Gar Samuelson, the previous drummer for the band, used Behler as his drum tech. Behler eventually was fired by Mustaine for being a cocaine addict and gave up his place in Megadeth to his own drum tech, Nick Menza.\n\nBefore Megadeth, Behler was a member of The Meanies and Sinclair, among other groups.\n\nIn an interview with Shawn Drover, Shawn stated that Chuck lives in the Detroit area, and attends Megadeth shows whenever they are in the area.\n\nHe is currently a member of Motor City Freaks.\n\n"}
{"id": "2072000", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2072000", "title": "Texas's 23rd congressional district", "text": "Texas's 23rd congressional district\n\nTexas's 23rd congressional district stretches across the southwestern portion of Texas. It is a majority Hispanic district and has been represented by Republican Will Hurd since 2015.\n\nThe district runs along the majority of Texas's border with Mexico, just north of the Rio Grande. While it encompasses numerous county seats and a few towns of regional economic importance, the district is predominantly rural. It stretches from western San Antonio to just outside El Paso. Its large size is due to its low population density—one of the lowest in the country. It encompasses all of Big Bend National Park and Big Bend Ranch State Park. Major economic activities in the district include farming, ranching, oil and mineral extraction, recreation, manufacturing, and tourism.\n\nAs of the 2000 census, the district contained 651,620 people. Of these, 41% are non-Hispanic white, 55.1% Hispanic regardless of race, 2% non-Hispanic black, and 2.2% other. The district's population is 74.6% urban. Per capita Income for the district is $18,692. The district has a 6.5% unemployment rate. Of the employed, 71.8% is private, 19.4% government, and 8.4% self-employed. Major industries include Retail trade, Education services, Health Care, and Manufacturing. 222,012 households are within the district, with an average of 2.8 persons per household.\n\nThis district was created in 1967, following passage of the Voting Rights Act of 1965. In addition, it followed the case of \"Wesberry v. Sanders,\" resulting in Texas' previous congressional map being tossed out. Democrats held the district until 1993.\n\nFollowing the 1990 census, in 1992, the Texas Legislature created the new , mostly from the eastern portion of the 23rd. In the process, the legislature left a heavily Republican section of western San Antonio in the 23rd. Republican Henry Bonilla beat 4-term incumbent Albert Bustamante to take the seat in 1992.\n\nAlthough the 23rd leaned slightly Democratic on paper, Bonilla had a very conservative voting record. Largely because of his popularity in San Antonio, he did not face a credible challenger until 2002, when the former Democratic Texas Secretary of State, Henry Cuellar, came within 2 points of unseating him.\n\nDuring the 2003 Texas redistricting, the Republican-controlled Texas Legislature shifted most of Laredo, which had been one of the bases of the 23rd from the beginning, into the . Several heavily Republican suburbs in the Texas Hill Country north of San Antonio were shifted into the 23rd district, all but ensuring Bonilla of a seventh term.\n\nOn June 28, 2006, the U.S. Supreme Court, in \"League of United Latin American Citizens v. Perry\" ruled that the 23rd district violated the Voting Rights Act of 1965. The case turned on the fact that the 23rd district was a protected majority-Hispanic district. If the 23rd were redrawn to put Hispanics in a minority, a new majority-Hispanic district had to be created. Although Hispanics made up 55 percent of the old 23rd's population, they comprised only 46 percent of the new 23rd's voting-age U.S. citizen population. Therefore, the Court said, the new 23rd was not a true majority-minority district. The Court found that the new Austin-to-McAllen 25th district was not compact enough to be an acceptable replacement. The Court ruled that the legislature had violated the rights of Hispanic voters.\n\nAs a result, on August 4, 2006, a three-judge panel announced replacement district boundaries for the 2006 election in the 23rd district. Due to the 23rd's size, nearly every district along the El Paso-San Antonio corridor had to be redrawn as well.\n\nIn the change, the new 23rd lost many of the heavily Republican areas given to it in 2003, as well as the rest of Laredo. It received a large portion of south San Antonio, which was heavily Democratic. Four other districts were affected: the 28th (represented by Democrat Henry Cuellar), 25th (Democrat Lloyd Doggett), (Democrat Ruben Hinojosa) and (Republican Lamar S. Smith). As a result, on November 7, 2006 (the day of the general election), these five districts held open primaries, called a \"jungle primary.\" If no candidate were to receive as much as 50% of the vote, a runoff election in December would decide the seat.\n\nIn the 23rd, the incumbent Bonilla had two significant opponents, both Democrats: the Vietnam War veteran Rick Bolanos and Ciro Rodriguez, the former Congressman of the 28th district. In the Spring, Bolanos won the now moot 23rd district Democratic primary. Rodriguez lost a primary challenge to Cuellar in the 28th district, which was also vacated. The redrawing placed Rodriguez' home, along with most of his old base, into the 23rd district. Other candidates in the special election were: Albert Uresti, the retired San Antonio Fire Department district chief and brother of the state Senator Carlos Uresti; Lukin Gilliland, a rancher and businessman from Alamo Heights; Adrian De Leon, the owner of a truck stop in Carrizo Springs; and August Beltran of San Antonio. Craig T. Stephens, an independent candidate, also filed to run.\n\nRick Bolanos dropped out of the race on October 19, 2006 and endorsed fellow Democrat Lukin Gilliland.\n\nOn November 7, 2006, Henry Bonilla received significantly more votes than any of his challengers, but did not receive 50% of the votes cast. Though none of the Democratic candidates came close to Bonilla individually, as a whole the six Democratic candidates received slightly more votes than Bonilla, the only Republican candidate. However, neither party received more than 50% of the vote because of a third party candidate.\n\nA runoff election was held on December 12, 2006 between Bonilla and Rodriguez, and Rodriguez won.\n\nThe National Republican Congressional Committee targeted Texas' 23rd congressional district to try to regain it, and strongly supported the Republican campaign financially. Francisco \"Quico\" Canseco, a San Antonio businessman, became the Republican nominee for the district after defeating Will Hurd, Robert Lowry, Joseph Mack Gould, and Michael Kueber in the Republican primary. Canseco won the General Election on November 2, 2010, defeating the incumbent, and took office on January 3, 2011.\n\nDemocratic challenger Pete Gallego defeated Republican incumbent Quico Canseco in the race for Texas' 23rd district on November 6, 2012. Since 1991, Gallego had represented the 74th state house district, which is the nation's largest United States-Mexico border district. At one time or another, Gallego had represented nearly all of the central portion of the congressional district.\n\nCanseco conceded the race on November 9.\n\nRepublican challenger Will Hurd defeated Democratic incumbent Pete Gallego in the race for Texas' 23rd district on November 4, 2014, making this the third consecutive election in which partisan control of the seat switched.\n\nRepublican incumbent Will Hurd defeated Democratic challenger Pete Gallego in the race for Texas' 23rd district on November 8, 2016.\n\nFor a third consecutive time, Republican incumbent Will Hurd won by a margin less than 1,000 votes to newcomer Gina Ortiz Jones in the race for Texas' 23rd district on November 6, 2018.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2072011", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2072011", "title": "Ilford County High School", "text": "Ilford County High School\n\nIlford County High School (often abbreviated to ICHS) is a selective secondary grammar school for boys located in the town of Barkingside of the London Borough of Redbridge. It was formerly called \"Park High Grade School\" and as a result old boys are referred to as Old Parkonians.\n\nICHS is a four-form entry school, each form comprising up to 30 pupils. Originally one of a number of selective schools in the London Borough of Redbridge, ICHS was retained in 1973 as the only boys’ selective school in the borough. Admission at 11+ takes place through tests administered by the borough as local education authority. There is also opportunity for admission at 16+, directly into the sixth form, but the majority of places each year are taken up by existing students of the lower school. \n\nThe school was founded in 1901 in Balfour Road, Ilford as \"Park Higher Grade School\", before moving to its present site on Fremantle Road, Barkingside in 1935. The ground floor of the original building in Balfour Road is today used as an annexe for the adjoining Christchurch Primary School, and the remainder of the building as Redbridge Teachers' Centre.\n\nAlthough there once existed several selective grammar schools in the area, by 1973 it remained the only boys' selective school in Redbridge. The girls' section split off in 1929 to a new site in Cranbrook Road, where the school was known as \"Ilford County High School for Girls\". Following the conversion of the girls' school to being part of a co-educational school (Valentines High School), Woodford County High School (WCHS) is now seen as the \"sister school\". In recent times, it has become the \"partner school\" of Trinity Catholic High School and Ilford Jewish Primary School.\n\nIn 2004/5, there were 843 pupils, including 245 in the sixth form, and 88 members of staff, including 63 teachers. The Headmaster, from 1993, was Mr S I Devereux who retired in December 2009. From January 2010 to 18 April 2010 Mrs Carole Jordan (Deputy Head) became Acting Head Teacher. On 19 April 2010, Mr Michael Capon officially became the new Headmaster of Ilford County High School. He was previously Deputy Headteacher of St Martins School, Brentwood. Mr Capon retired from the school in July 2014 after four years of service to the school. He was succeeded by Mrs Rebecca Drysdale as Acting Head Teacher at first, while her position of Deputy Head was accepted on an acting basis by Mrs Foucher and Mr Streatfield. Mrs Drysdale is the second female acting head teacher in Ilford County High School's history. On 28 April 2015 Mrs Drysdale's appointment to the post was confirmed by the governors as substantive. Mrs Foucher and Mr Streatfield were appointed substantive Deputy Headteachers following interviews held on 12 June 2015.\n\nThe Old Parkonians Association was founded as an association of former pupils of the Ilford County High School. Today, the association performs a dual role, as \"landlord\" of the facilities at the Oakfield Playing Fields and parent body for the affiliated Sports Clubs, and as a social hub for former pupils of the School. \n\nThe association has two affiliated sports clubs; the Old Parkonians Football Club & the Oakfield Parkonians Cricket Club.\n\nOld Parkonians FC currently has nine senior teams, all of which compete in the Southern Amateur League. In the 2011/12 season OPFC became the first club to simultaneously hold the Senior (1st XI), Junior (2nd XI) and Minor (3rd XI) Old Boys cups. \n\nIn Summer 2014 the football club created a youth section called the Young Parkonians Football Club. There are currently Under 13's and Under 16's teams competing in the Echo Junior Football League with plans to add more youth teams in future years.\n\nThe Cricket Club, now open to all, still retains strong links with the School, providing coaching during the winter and playing the annual Centenary Trophy match against the School 1st XI each year. The Cricket Club fields 5 XIs in the Shepherd Neame Essex League, an occasional 6th XI on Saturdays, and teams playing friendlies on Sundays, as well as running a Colts section.\n\nThe school has published a magazine since its foundation entitled \"Chronicles\", often showcasing students' poems and artwork, in addition to news. Prior to 2007, Chronicles had always been published in book format and distributed to students throughout the school. However, this was discontinued in 2007, and was replaced by an online-only version.\n\n\"Focus\" is a school newspaper written by a group of lower school pupils. The first edition was released in 2010 and all editions are available to view on the school website. The newspaper discusses on-going school issues and other topics of interest to pupils.\n\n\"STEM\" was a termly periodical, formed and edited by a team of sixth form students which published articles on science-orientated subjects. The periodical was distributed during the 2015 academic year and remains available to view on the school website\n\nConstruction of a new Sports Hall was completed in November 2006 and was opened by former pupil Sir Trevor Brooking. The Sports Hall provides access to gym equipment, a swimming pool and a large sports hall.\n\nThe Learning Resource Centre (Library) also came into action in October. \n\nIn 2014, the Sixth Form Suite was constructed, purpose made for KS5 students to use as a learning environment outside of the LRC which is used by all years. The block is constructed in the location of the old Economics and Business class, which has since been housed elsewhere in the school. The Sixth Form Suite also houses the offices for the Head of Sixth Form & Deputy Heads of Sixth Form.\n\nOn 1 June 2015 work was started to refurbish the canteen, and the canteen was ready for use for the students by the start of new school year. In August 2015 on the construction of a new science and technology block, with additional sixth form facilities, preparatory to expansion of the main school to six forms of entry commencing with the Year 7 intake in September 2016. Work initially got delayed due to planning permission going through with the sister school, Woodford County High School. In September 2015, construction commenced for the expansion of the school, while the school maintained normal functionality. The new building was finally available to students September 2017, and has been in use ever since.\n\nNotable ex-pupils include:\n"}
{"id": "2072017", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2072017", "title": "Jacob Druckman", "text": "Jacob Druckman\n\nJacob Raphael Druckman (June 26, 1928 – May 24, 1996) was an American composer born in Philadelphia. A graduate of the Juilliard School, Druckman studied with Vincent Persichetti, Peter Mennin, and Bernard Wagenaar. In 1949 and 1950 he studied with Aaron Copland at Tanglewood and later continued his studies at the École Normale de Musique in Paris (1954–55). He worked extensively with electronic music, in addition to a number of works for orchestra or for small ensembles. In 1972 he won the Pulitzer Prize for his first large orchestral work, \"Windows\". He was composer-in-residence of the New York Philharmonic from 1982 until 1985. Druckman taught at Juilliard, The Aspen Music Festival, Tanglewood, Brooklyn College, Bard College, and Yale University, among other appointments. He is Connecticut's State Composer Laureate.\n\nDruckman died of lung cancer at age 67. His music is published by Boosey & Hawkes. He is the father of percussionist Daniel Druckman.\n\nNotable musicians who have recorded his works include David Zinman, Wolfgang Sawallisch, Zubin Mehta, Leonard Slatkin, Dawn Upshaw, Jan DeGaetani, Dorian Wind Quintet, the Orpheus Chamber Orchestra, and the American Brass Quintet.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2072019", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2072019", "title": "Carbonyl sulfide", "text": "Carbonyl sulfide\n\nCarbonyl sulfide is the chemical compound with the linear formula OCS. Normally written as COS as a chemical formula that does not imply its structure, it is a colourless flammable gas with an unpleasant odor. It is a linear molecule consisting of a carbonyl group double bonded to a sulfur atom. Carbonyl sulfide can be considered to be intermediate between carbon dioxide and carbon disulfide, both of which are valence isoelectronic with it.\n\nCarbonyl sulfide decomposes in the presence of humidity and bases to carbon dioxide and hydrogen sulfide.\n\nThis compound is found to catalyze the formation of peptides from amino acids. This finding is an extension of the Miller–Urey experiment and it is suggested that carbonyl sulfide played a significant role in the origin of life.\n\nCarbonyl sulfide is the most abundant sulfur compound naturally present in the atmosphere, at , because it is emitted from oceans, volcanoes and deep sea vents. As such, it is a significant compound in the global sulfur cycle. Measurements on the Antarctica ice cores and from air trapped in snow above glaciers (firn air) have provided a detailed picture of OCS concentrations from 1640 to the present day and allow an understanding of the relative importance of anthropogenic and non-anthropogenic sources of this gas to the atmosphere. Some carbonyl sulfide that is transported into the stratospheric sulfate layer is oxidized to sulfuric acid. Sulfuric acid forms particulate which affects energy balance due to light scattering. The long atmospheric lifetime of COS makes it the major source of stratospheric sulfate, though sulfur dioxide from volcanic activity can be significant too. Carbonyl sulfide is also removed from the atmosphere by terrestrial vegetation by enzymes associated with the uptake of carbon dioxide during photosynthesis, and by hydrolysis in ocean waters. Loss processes, such as these, limit the persistence (or lifetime) of a molecule of COS in the atmosphere to a few years.\n\nThe largest man-made sources of carbonyl sulfide release include its primary use as a chemical intermediate and as a byproduct of carbon disulfide production; however, it is also released from automobiles and their tire wear, coal-fired power plants, coking ovens, biomass combustion, fish processing, combustion of refuse and plastics, petroleum manufacture, and manufacture of synthetic fibers, starch, and rubber. The average total worldwide release of carbonyl sulfide to the atmosphere has been estimated at about 3 million tons/year, of which less than one third was related to human activity. It is also a significant sulfur-containing impurity in synthesis gas.\n\nCarbonyl sulfide is present in foodstuffs, such as cheese and prepared vegetables of the cabbage family. Traces of COS are naturally present in grains and seeds in the range of 0.05–0.1 mg·kg.\n\nCarbonyl sulfide has been observed in the interstellar medium (see also List of molecules in interstellar space), in comet 67P and in the atmosphere of Venus, where, because of the difficulty of producing COS inorganically, it is considered a possible indicator of life.\n\nCarbonyl sulfide is used as an intermediate in the production of thiocarbamate herbicides. Carbonyl sulfide is a potential alternative fumigant to methyl bromide and phosphine. In some cases, however, residues on the grain result in flavours that are unacceptable to consumers, e.g. barley used for brewing. Carbonyl sulfide is readily converted to the gaseous signaling molecule hydrogen sulfide by carbonic anhydrase enzymes in plants and mammals. Because of this chemistry, the release of carbonyl sulfide from small organic molecules has been identified as a strategy for delivering hydrogen sulfide in different biological contexts. In ecosystem science, carbonyl sulfide is increasingly often being used to describe the rate of the photosynthesis.\n\nCarbonyl sulfide was first described in 1841, but was apparently mischaracterized as a mixture of carbon dioxide and hydrogen sulfide. Carl von Than first characterized the substance in 1867. It forms when carbon monoxide reacts with molten sulfur. This reaction reverses above . A laboratory synthesis entails the reaction potassium thiocyanate and sulfuric acid. The resulting gas contains significant amounts of byproducts and requires purification.\n\nHydrolysis of isothiocyanates in hydrochloric acid solution also affords COS.\n\nAs of 1994, limited information existed on the acute toxicity of carbonyl sulfide in humans and in animals. High concentrations (>1000 ppm) can cause sudden collapse, convulsions, and death from respiratory paralysis. Occasional fatalities have been reported, practically without local irritation or olfactory warning. In tests with rats, 50% animals died when exposed to of COS for 90 minutes, or at for 9 minutes. Limited studies with laboratory animals also suggest that continued inhalation of low concentrations (~50 ppm for up to 12 weeks) does not affect the lungs or the heart.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2072046", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2072046", "title": "Texas's 24th congressional district", "text": "Texas's 24th congressional district\n\nTexas's 24th congressional district of the United States House of Representatives covers much of the suburban area in between Fort Worth and Dallas in the state of Texas. The district centers along the Dallas-Tarrant county line, and includes the southeastern corner of Denton County as well.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2072053", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2072053", "title": "The Truth About Forever", "text": "The Truth About Forever\n\nThe Truth About Forever is Sarah Dessen's sixth novel. It was published in hardcover on May 11, 2004 and in paperback on April 6, 2006. In 2006 the audiobook adaptation of \"The Truth About Forever\" was one of the Young Adult Library Services Association's selected picks for that year.\n\nMacy is still recovering from the sudden loss of her father. Since he died during one of their habitual morning runs, Macy gives up running and keeps all of her feelings to herself. This results in her being unable to comfort her mother. Her boyfriend, Jason, is currently away at Brain Camp. When Macy attempts to communicate with him about her unhappiness with her coworkers at the library. At the end of one of their e-mails she tells him that she loves him, he replies and thinks it would be for the best if they took a break until he returns in August. Upset and hurt, Macy goes for a ride and sees a van for Wish Catering, which catered her mother's party. She applies for a job, which she gets. Macy enjoys this new job and her new coworkers. There she meets the artistic Wes, who she later discovers lost his mother to cancer and attended reform school for breaking and entering. During this time Macy's older sister begins to renovate their father's beach house despite reluctance from the other family members (mainly from her mother). Her mother refuses to talk to Macy about the sudden death of her husband, Macy's father; therefore she proceeds to put all of her time into her work.\n\nMacy attends a party with some of her coworkers, where a drunk, former friend from the track team reveals to Macy's friends Wes, Kristy, Bert, and Monica that she had to witness her father's death. Ignoring this information, everybody returns to the party. There, she bonds with coworker Kristy, who advises her to enjoy her life because forever keeps changing. Later Wes and Macy end up stranded together after their catering van runs out of gas, where Macy opens up to Wes about all of the issues in her life during a game of \"Truth\". They continue to play the game later during work, where Macy discovers that he is also in an \"on break\" relationship with a girl named Becky.\n\nAs Macy and Wes grow closer together, Macy's mother advises against the job and any possible relationship with Wes after Macy misses one of her mother's parties due to the birth of Avery, Delia's daughter. Macy later ends up deciding to confess to Wes that she cares about him, but sees him with Becky (Wes's girlfriend) and ends up heart-broken again. Her mother has Macy helping her with preparations for a party, but eventually has to have Wish Catering assist her. It is during this time that Macy succeeds in being able to comfort her mother. Macy realizes that there's more to life than just sticking to the rules and trying to please everyone around her. She realizes that she's the only one in control of her future. Macy gets together with Wes.\n\nCritical reception to \"The Truth About Forever\" has been positive, with The Celebrity Cafe giving the book 4.5 stars and the Star Telegram calling it \"eternally inspiring\". Publishers Weekly and Teen Ink also praised the book, with Teen Ink writing that it was a \"must read\" for summer reading lists. The Otago Daily Times stated that although not all of the characters were as fully developed as the main characters, they enjoyed the book overall. Kirkus Reviews criticized the plot as \"too conventional\" but wrote that \"the Wish team is lovable, the romance clicks, and readers will be entertained\". Of the audiobook, AudioFile Magazine cited narrator Stina Nielsen's \"appealing tone and cadence\" as a highlight.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2072054", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2072054", "title": "TCP global synchronization", "text": "TCP global synchronization\n\nTCP global synchronization in computer networks can happen to\nTCP/IP flows during periods\nof congestion because each sender will reduce their transmission rate at the same\ntime when packet loss occurs.\n\nRouters on the Internet normally have packet queues, to allow them to hold packets when the network is busy, rather than discarding them.\n\nBecause routers have limited resources, the size of these queues is also limited. The simplest technique to limit queue size is known as tail drop. The queue is allowed to fill to its maximum size, and then any new packets are simply discarded, until there is space in the queue again.\n\nThis causes problems when used on TCP/IP routers handling multiple TCP streams, especially when bursty traffic is present. While the network is stable, the queue is constantly full, and there are no problems except that the full queue results in high latency. However, the introduction of a sudden burst of traffic may cause large numbers of established, steady streams to lose packets simultaneously. \n\nTCP has automatic recovery from dropped packets, which it interprets as congestion on the network (which is usually correct). The sender reduces its sending rate for a certain amount of time, and then tries to find out if the network is no longer congested by increasing the rate again subject to a ramp-up. This is known as the slow-start algorithm.\n\nAlmost all the senders will use the same time delay before increasing their rates. When these delays expire, at the same time, all the senders will send additional packets, the router queue will again overflow, more packets will be dropped, the senders will all back off for a fixed delay... ad infinitum; compare with the thundering herd problem.\n\nThis pattern of each sender decreasing and increasing transmission rates at the same time as other senders is referred to as \"global synchronization\" and leads to inefficient use of bandwidth, due to the large numbers of dropped packets, which must be retransmitted, and because the senders have a reduced sending rate, compared to the stable state, while they are backed-off, following each loss.\n\nThis problem has been the subject of much research. The consensus appears to be that the tail drop algorithm is the leading cause of the problem, and other queue size management algorithms such as Random Early Detection (RED) and Weighted RED will reduce the likelihood of global synchronization, as well as keeping queue sizes down in the face of heavy load and bursty traffic.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2072057", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2072057", "title": "David Akers-Jones", "text": "David Akers-Jones\n\nSir David Akers-Jones (; 14 April 1927 – 30 September 2019) was a British colonial administrator. He was the Chief Secretary of Hong Kong from 1985 to 1987, and was briefly Acting Governor of Hong Kong.\n\nBorn David Akers Jones ('Akers' being adopted as part of his surname later), he was son of Walter George Jones, manager of a brick and tile factory at Worthing, West Sussex, and Dorothy (née Akers), a schoolteacher. He was educated at Worthing High School and Brasenose College, Oxford (MA).\n\nAkers-Jones arrived in Hong Kong in 1957, after serving three years in the Malayan Civil Service and joined the Hong Kong Government in the summer of 1957. During his long career, Akers-Jones served in many important posts in the Government of Hong Kong, including Principal Assistant Colonial Secretary, Secretary for the New Territories, which was later retitled \"The Secretary for City and New Territories Administration\". He was instrumental in turning small villages into \"new towns\" in the New Territories teeming with factories and apartment blocks to resettle slum-dwellers from the hillsides of Hong Kong Island.\n\nHe was also Secretary for District Administration, Secretary for Home Affairs and Chief Secretary.\n\nAfter the sudden death of Sir Edward Youde, Akers-Jones became Acting Governor of Hong Kong from December 1986 to April 1987. After retiring from the post of Chief Secretary in 1987, he became Special Assistant to Governor Lord Wilson of Tillyorn for six months. He was later Chairman of the Hong Kong Housing Authority, from 1987 to 1992.\n\nIn the years leading up to the transfer of sovereignty from the UK to the People's Republic of China (PRC) in 1997, Akers-Jones was appointed as a Hong Kong Affairs Advisor to the Central Government of the PRC, from 1992 to 1997, after he relinquished chairmanship of the Hong Kong Housing Authority, having served a five-year term.\n\nSir David Akers-Jones retired and lived quietly in Hong Kong. He and his wife bought the dilapidated secluded villa \"Dragon View\", in Sham Tseng, for HK$1.5 million. The couple renovated it and worked extensively on the garden. They were served with a compulsory purchase order on 19 October 2000 when it was decided to go ahead with a road widening project. He is thought to have obtained at least $30 million in compensation.\n\nIn 2005, Akers-Jones briefly emerged from retirement to defend, before Hong Kong's Legislative Council, his role in zoning the Discovery Bay resort project on Lantau in the 1970s. Developers were allowed to build there with the stipulation that it would become a resort but most of the units were later converted into luxury housing. He was involved in the original zoning decision enabling development, as the then Secretary for the New Territories. With Hong Kong Disneyland subsequently opening nearby and property prices having skyrocketed as a result, suspicions about the fact that the original zoning plan was never enforced have again come to the fore. Akers-Jones criticised the decision to call on an elderly man to testify about events 30 years earlier. He revealed that colonial officials had abruptly changed the zoning of the Discovery Bay project, and gave it to new developers because they feared it would fall into the hands of the former Soviet Union.\n\nAkers-Jones criticised Hong Kong's post-colonial government for continuing a policy of maintaining high property prices, its lack of urban planning, and frequently ill-conceived plans to reclaim land in Victoria Harbour.\n\nAkers-Jones advocated converting the Election Committee into a committee which would nominate suitable candidates for the post of chief executive for election by the public. He further believed in preserving functional constituencies but that they should be turned into an upper house in a bicameral legislature instead of abolishing them.\n\nIn later life, Akers-Jones penned occasional letters to the \"South China Morning Post\" and wrote occasional columns there and at \"The Standard\". In 2004, he published a volume of reminiscences, entitled \"Feeling the Stones\".\n\nAkers-Jones was honorary chairman of the Bridge to China foundation, or Wu Zhi Qiao, which is a charitable, non-profit organisation based in Hong Kong dedicated to building footbridges in rural mainland China. It was established in 2005 as a collaborative effort between the Chinese University of Hong Kong, the Hong Kong Polytechnic University, and Xi'an Jiaotong University to build a single footbridge across the Po River in Gansu province. The foundation ultimately formed partnerships with 17 universities in China, Hong Kong, and the United States.\n\nHe was a vice-president of the Hong Kong Girl Guides Association. He was a founder and the honorary president of the local chapter of Outward Bound. He was vice-patron and honorary life president of the Hong Kong Football Association.\n\nAkers-Jones was a trustee and vice-president of the Worldwide Fund for Nature Hong Kong and chairman of the Jackie Chan Charitable Foundation\n\nAkers-Jones was chairman of Operation Smile China Medical Mission and president of the English-Speaking Union (Hong Kong). He was honorary advisor to Musicus Society.\n\nIn 2014, Akers-Jones founded Invotech, a do-tank to spread innovation and technology in Hong Kong.\n\nIn 1951, Akers-Jones married Jane, daughter of Royal Navy Captain Sir Frank Todd Spickernell, KBE, CB, CVO, DSO, and maternal granddaughter of Sir Delves Louis Broughton, 10th Baronet. Jane Akers-Jones was appointed MBE in 1988. They had a son and a daughter.\n\nAkers-Jones died from colorectal cancer at Queen Elizabeth Hospital on 30 September 2019 at age 92. His wife Jane had died in 2002.\n\n"}
{"id": "2072065", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2072065", "title": "Andreas Kisser", "text": "Andreas Kisser\n\nAndreas Rudolf Kisser (; born August 24, 1968) is a Brazilian musician, songwriter and producer. He is most known for being the lead guitarist for the metal band Sepultura. He has been featured on every Sepultura release since their second album, \"Schizophrenia\". Additionally, Kisser has also been involved in other bands such as the rock supergroup Hail!, Sexoturica and, more recently, De La Tierra.\n\nKisser was born in São Bernardo do Campo, a municipality in São Paulo to a Slovene mother, from Maribor, Slovenia, and a German father. His father was a mechanical engineer and his mother was a teacher and amateur artist. At an early age, Kisser showed an interest in music.\n\nHe was 10 when he started to listen to his parents' records of the Beatles, Roberto Carlos and Tonico & Tinoco. He received his first acoustic guitar from his grandmother and later won a second guitar at a game of Bingo. In his early adolescence, Kisser started to play acoustic guitar first learning basic chords from the Brazilian popular music repertoire and later on classical pieces. A friend then introduced Kisser to hard rock with bands like Queen and Kiss which had a great influence on him. In 1983, he went to see Kiss live in São Paulo and his father took him to Rock In Rio in 1985 to see AC/DC. Kisser eventually got his first electric guitar, a Giannini-Supersonic, and an overdrive pedal. Kisser's first guitar was purchased for him by his mother. Some of his major influences consisted then of Eric Clapton, Jimi Hendrix, Steve Howe, Tony Iommi, Ritchie Blackmore, Jimmy Page and Randy Rhoads.\n\nKisser started performing in 1984 in a three-piece band called Esfinge, which he formed with school friends and where he played guitar and sang. The band played essentially covers of heavy metal bands such as Black Sabbath, Ozzy Osbourne, Iron Maiden, Venom and Metallica. Two years later the band renamed itself Pestilence and, in 1987, recorded a demo called \"Slaves of Pain\". The songs on the demo were afterwards reused by Sepultura in their albums \"Schizophrenia\" and \"Beneath the Remains\". Pestilence was, however, short-lived and ultimately split up.\n\nIn 1987, Kisser met the members of Sepultura and went to see the band play live while he was on a vacation trip to Belo Horizonte. On the day of the concert he joined the band as an improvised roadie for vocalist/guitarist Max Cavalera. He also jammed with the members during the intermissions. Following the departure of original lead guitarist Jairo Guedes, Kisser auditioned for the position of lead guitarist. The same year he performed with the band for the first time in Caruaru, Pernambuco and recorded the album \"Schizophrenia\". His involvement in Sepultura helped shape the band's evolving sound. Max Cavalera said of him:\n\nOn Schizophrenia and Beneath the Remains, Kisser co-wrote the lyrics with Max, whereas the whole band wrote the music. For Arise and thereafter Kisser began to write songs of his own. Kisser has also occasionally provided backing vocals both live and on the records. He also fronted the band in 1996, at the Castle Donington Monsters of Rock festival, when Max Cavalera was forced to absent himself in order to attend the funeral of his stepson Dana Wells.\n\nKisser is also a member of the metal tribute band Hail!. That band's rotating cast of members include Tim \"Ripper\" Owens, Paul Bostaph, David Ellefson, Mike Portnoy, Jimmy DeGrasso, Phil Demmel and Roy Mayorga. Hail! Was formed in the late 2008 by Ellefson and music manager Mark Abbattista. The band's original lineup, which consisted of DeGrasso, Ellefson, Kisser and Owens, started a series of concerts in 2009 in Chile. The band then toured Europe and played an exclusive concert in Lebanon. In 2010, Hail! went on a second European tour and played a number of US shows with the following line-up: Andreas Kisser, Tim \"Ripper\" Owens, Paul Bostaph and James LoMenzo.\n\nIn December 2012, Kisser formed the Latin American supergroup De La Tierra with Alex González of Maná, Andrés Giménez of A.N.I.M.A.L. and Sr. Flavio of Los Fabulosos Cadillacs. The band first released a teaser and a number of behind-the-scene footages of the recording before releasing their debut single \"Maldita Historia\" in 2013.\n\nKisser worked on three Brazilian movie soundtracks. For No Coração dos Deuses (\"In the Heart of Gods\"), a 1999 drama film, he worked on the score with Igor Cavalera and Mike Patton. The soundtrack was recorded at the Estudio ION in São Paulo in June 1998 and produced by André Moraes. In 2001 Kisser worked alongside Tony Bellotto, Eduardo de Queirós, Charles Gavin on the score of the award-winning crime film \"Bellini and the Sphynx\". Kisser collaborated again on the soundtrack for the 2008 sequel \"Bellini and the Devil\".\n\nIn August 2009, Kisser released his solo debut album entitled \"Hubris I & II\". When not active with Sepultura Kisser experimented musical ideas, wrote and recorded demo material, some of which had been gestating for 15 years prior to the album's release. In 2007, he uploaded a few short videos of the recording process through his YouTube account. It finally took Kisser 6 years to complete the album during which he handled a great part of the production duties himself. In the months following the release Kisser played a few shows in Brazil to promote the album and took part in a music video shoot for the song \"Em Busca Do Ouro\". The album was eventually nominated at the 2010 Latin Grammys in the \"Best Brazilian Rock Album\" category.\n\nKisser worked on various musical projects. Between 1995 and 1996 Kisser recorded a number of demo tracks with Jason Newsted and Tom Hunting under different monikers. For the first project the trio recorded three demo tracks under the name Sexoturica which later became part of the compilation album IR8 vs. Sexoturica. For the second project, called Quarteto da Pinga and which included Robb Flynn, they recorded two tracks and a cover. In 1996 Kisser renewed his collaboration with Newsted on another project called Godswallop which included Carl Coletti on drums and Sofia Ramos on vocals.\n\nFurthermore, Kisser has made multiple guest appearances on other bands' albums, providing additional (lead) guitar and/or vocal accompaniment. He has been featured on the album of bands such as Asesino, Astafix, Biohazard, Burning in Hell, Claustrofobia, Korzus, Krusader, Nailbomb, Ratos de Porão and . In 2005, Kisser took part in the recording of the Roadrunner United album. He played guitar on the tracks \"The Enemy\", \"Baptized in the Redemption\", and \"No Mas Control\". He also played at the 25th Anniversary Concert. In 2008 Kisser worked on a Brazilian Beatles tribute album Álbum Branco, which was recorded at the Bavini Studio in São Paulo. He played guitar on the tracks Piggies and Helter Skelter.\n\nBeside his work as musician, Kisser has been involved in projects as producer. In 1992 Kisser co-produced Hammerhead's album Shadow of a Time to Be. In 2004 he recorded three songs for the Brazilian rock band Sayowa which appeared on the band's debut album Treme Terra. The same year he helped produce Necromancia's album Check Mate and provided additional guitar and backing vocal on the album's title track Greed Up To Kill. In 2006 he produced Sayowa's second Album. The album was also co-produced by the band itself and Stanley Soares.\n\nIn 1992, Kisser unsuccessfully auditioned for the temporary position of rhythm guitarist of Metallica, as a temporary replacement of James Hetfield, who had suffered severe burns on his left hand and arm during a live show in Montreal. Kisser had been recommended to Metallica through Phil Rind of Sacred Reich who was well acquainted with Jason Newsted.\n\nIn 2008, he took part in the Scorpions Humanity World Tour in Mexico and Brazil as a guest musician, recording the \"Amazônia - Live in the Jungle\" DVD.\n\nIn 2011, Kisser replaced Anthrax guitarist Scott Ian for some European tour dates (July 2–16), including the Big 4 Sonisphere Festival shows in Gothenburg, Sweden as well as Knebworth, UK and Amneville, France, as Ian and his wife Pearl Aday were expecting the birth of their first child.\n\nKisser played a few concerts with Brazilian Beatles cover band Clube Big Beatles in The Cavern Club in Liverpool and, in August 2012, was given his own brick in the Cavern Club's wall of fame. He thus became the first Brazilian to have one, and the first modern metal guitarist to be honoured in that way.\n\nKisser currently uses Fender, Jackson and Seizi guitars. He has been endorsing Fender guitars since 2002 and Seizi guitars since 2011. Seizi guitars is currently in the process of releasing a signature model. Throughout his career Kisser has used a number of guitars from different companies. In 2001/2002 he endorsed the Squier Stagemaster/Showmaster Deluxe V4 neck-through model. When he started with Sepultura he used an Ibanez guitar. Later he acquired a Charvel Model 2 and Jackson Randy Rhoads which he used extensively and continues to use on recordings. In the 1990s Kisser also used and endorsed ESP and Fernandes guitars. His guitars are tuned to D standard and Bb standard. When touring he takes four guitars with him, two for each tuning. Kisser has a collection of about 40 guitars including:\n\n\nFor amplification, Kisser uses a Mesa Boogie Triaxis preamplifier which he runs through two amplifier heads and two to four 4x12 cabinets. He endorses Mesa Boogie and Meteoro amplifiers, a Brazilian company that released his signature amplifier models. Before switching to Mesa Boogie, Kisser used an ADA MP-1 MIDI Preamplifier and Marshall amplifiers.\n\n\nKisser uses a MXR Carbon Copy and his signature Cry Baby Wah for effects when playing live. He endorses Dunlop Manufacturing, SG strings and Zoom.\n\n\nA detailed gear diagram of Andreas Kisser's 2004 Sepultura guitar rig is well-documented.\n\nHe is currently married to Patricia Perissinotto Kisser, and has three children: Giulia (born in 1995), Yohan (born in 1997), and Enzo (born in 2005). A football fan, he is a supporter of São Paulo Futebol Clube. Aside from his musical career, Kisser has also participated in a number of extra activities. In 2010, he wrote a weekly column for Yahoo! Brasil Music and since January 2013, he has been hosting his own radio show with his son Yohan. The show is called Pegadas de Andreas Kisser (\"Footsteps of Andreas Kisser\") and is aired on the Brazilian radio station 89FM Rádio Rock.''\n\nPestilence\nSepultura\nQuarteto da Pinga\nSexoturica\nSolo albums\n\nThe AK Corral\nDie Apokalyptischen Reiter\nAsesino\nAstafix\nBiohazard\nBurning in Hell\nClaustrofobia\nClutch\nKorzus\nKrusader\nMetal Allegiance\nNailbomb\nNecromancia\nOs Paralamas do Sucesso\nRatos de Porão\nRoadrunner United\nSallaberry\nScorpions\n\nTitãs\nVarious\n"}
{"id": "2072067", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2072067", "title": "Jairo Guedz", "text": "Jairo Guedz\n\nJairo Guedz (born as Jairo Guedes Braga November 25, 1968) is a Brazilian guitarist and bassist. He was the lead guitar player of the heavy metal band Sepultura from 1985 to 1987 and was part of the short lived project Guerrilha alongside Igor and Max Cavalera and Sílvio SDN of Mutilator. He also played with The Mist, Overdose, Eminence. He currently plays bass in a Metallica tribute band called Metallica Cover Brazil, and guitar in The Southern Blacklist. Beside being a musician, Guedz designs figurines, runs an atelier and teaches miniature figure painting. He now lives in Belo Horizonte and has two sons, Igor and Érico Braga.\n\nGuedz was born in November 25, 1968 in João Monlevade, a municipality in the state of Minas Gerais. He got into music at the age of 10, listening to records of Elvis Presley and from there his musical interest lead him to explore hard rock and heavy metal. His musical idols include Serge Gainsbourg, Leonard Cohen, James Hetfield and Lou Reed. Guedz started playing music at the age of 15, inspired by bands like Motörhead, Slayer, Voivod, Sacrifice, Possessed and Celtic Frost.\n\nIn 1985 Guedz met the Cavalera brothers during a concert in Belo Horizonte. Guedz was then invited to attend a rehearsal session of Sepultura. He got the opportunity to play with the members and ended up joining the band. His recorded output with the band includes the 1985 EP \"Bestial Devastation\" and the 1986 first full-length \"Morbid Visions\". When playing with Sepultura he used the alias \"Tormentor\" and on occasion, \"Jairo T.\" In 1987 Guedz decided to leave Sepultura while the band was already writing music for the album Schizophrenia. He was replaced a week later by Andreas Kisser. In later interviews he cited a number of reasons for his departure, one of which that he was \"looking for something different\", musically speaking. To this days Guedz remains on very good terms with the former and current members of Sepultura and regularly joins them on stage to perform one or several songs from Morbid Visions. In 2005 he appeared on Sepultura's live DVD, \"Live in São Paulo\", playing the songs Necromancer and Troops of Doom and in 2012 he joined Cavalera Conspiracy on stage at the Music Hall in Belo Horizonte and performed the song Troops of Doom with the band.\n\nIn 1989 Guedz joined the thrash metal band The Mist as a substitute for the guitarists Reinaldo \"Cavalão\" Bedran and Roberto \"Beto\" Lima. He took part in the recording of the band's second album The Hangman Tree which came out in 1991 and enjoyed a fair amount of success in Brazil. In the same year, the band was offered a record deal from the British record label Music For Nations but turned it down, a decision Guedz later admitted to regret. After the departure of the singer, Vladimir Korg, The Mist carried on as a three piece and recorded in 1993 the EP Ashes to Ashes, Dust to Dust. In 1995 the band released the album Gottverlassen and embarked on the No Gods Tour where they played a series of headline shows and a number of opening shows for Kreator. In 1997 the remaining members decided to put an end to The Mist. Meanwhile, Guedz was invited by Overdose to fill in for their guitarist Sérgio Cicohvicz and went on tour with the band in Europe and America, opening for Mercyful Fate.\n\nIn 1999 Guedz became the bassist for the death groove metal band Eminence which was formed in 1995 by guitarist Alan Wallace Bello. During the 6 years that Guedz stayed in the band they recorded the full-lengths Chaotic System and Humanology and toured extensively in Europe and South-America. In 2006 Eminence announced Guedz' departure citing \"personal reasons\" and \"scheduling conflicts.\"\n\nEminence\nGuerrilha\nSepultura\nThe Mist\n\n"}
{"id": "2072082", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2072082", "title": "Senior Cambridge", "text": "Senior Cambridge\n\nThe Senior Cambridge examinations were General Certificate of Education examinations held in Pakistan, Malaysia, Singapore, India, and Jamaica. They were preceded by the Junior Cambridge and Preliminary Cambridge examinations.\n\nThe first school in Delhi to offer the Senior Cambridge examination was the Cambridge School at Daryaganj. After 1972, the Senior Cambridge examinations were largely superseded by the Indian Certificate of Secondary Education (ICSE) and the Indian School Certificate (ISC) examinations conducted by the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE), an autonomous body established in 1958.\n\nDuring the Japanese occupation of Malaysia in World War II, pupils who sat their Senior Cambridge examinations at some schools in 1941 had to wait until 1946 to learn their results. It was replaced with the Sijil Tinggi Persekolahan Malaysia during the late 1970s.\n\nAt its independence from British India in 1947, Pakistan inherited a number of schools that offered Senior Cambridge examinations. But one of the first schools to offer Senior Cambridge was Cathedral School Hall Road Lahore. Since then, the number of schools with a Senior Cambridge curriculum expanded greatly, and Cambridge schools are prominent among the premier educational institutions of Pakistan.\n\nPrior to the introduction of the O Levels examinations by UCLES, students sat for the Senior Cambridge examinations at the end of their four-year secondary school studies. This is equivalent to the General Certificate of Secondary Education (or GCSE) in England. The Higher School Certificate (HSC) examinations were replaced by A Levels (roughly equivalent to the present British \"sixth form\") in 1973.\n\nAt the Victoria Institution in 1933, the following list of school textbooks was issued to pupils preparing to study for the Senior Cambridge examinations:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2072095", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2072095", "title": "The Best of Testament", "text": "The Best of Testament\n\nThe Best of Testament is a compilation released by Testament in 1996.\n\n"}
{"id": "2072108", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2072108", "title": "Scott Community College", "text": "Scott Community College\n\nScott Community College is a community college in Riverdale, Iowa, near Bettendorf, and is part of the Eastern Iowa Community Colleges that also includes Clinton Community College and Muscatine Community College.\nScott Community College (or SCC, as it is known by students and faculty) became an entity in July 1966, the same year legislation in the Iowa General Assembly created the state's 15 community college districts, one of those being the Eastern Iowa Community College District. Offices were in downtown Bettendorf. \n\nSCC traces its ancestry to the former Davenport Area Technical School, a technical and vocational school administered by the Davenport School District; and Palmer Junior College, that offered two-year liberal arts programs. \n\nSCC's first term was Fall 1966, with tuition $150 per semester, or $10 per class for part-time students. More courses of study were added to the old Davenport Area Trade School's list of offerings, including auto body and repair, secretarial and clerical, and drafting. \nThe main campus on Belmont Road in Riverdale opened in 1969. (The college has a Bettendorf mailing address but is, technically, located in the small town of Riverdale.) The campus was erected on land once owned by Alcoa. At first, the campus housed technology programs, but soon expanded to offer liberal arts/college transfer programs. The SCC campus was expanded in 1987 and again in the mid-1990s. \n\nThe college now includes a number of locations in addition to its main campus. The Blong Technology Center is located near Interstate 80 in Davenport. The colleges West Davenport Center was opened in 2012 delivering adult and continuing education classes. The estate of V.O. and Elizabeth Figge donated the Kahl Building in Davenport to the college in 1994. After renovations, it became the school's urban campus. In January 2018 the urban campus moved into the former First Federal Savings and Loan Association and First Midwest Bank buildings. In addition, the college offers a wide variety of online courses in cooperation with the Iowa Community College Online Consortium. \n\nOn February 5, 2007 the Eastern Iowa Community Colleges unveiled plans to turn the grounds of the former Wacky Waters Adventure Park, located near Interstate 80 in Davenport, into the Midwest Center for Public Safety Training to \"serve as a unique training ground for firefighters\".\n\nIn 1967, SCC's enrollment was just over 300 students. By 1989, the number ballooned to nearly 3,300. SCC's Fall 2014 enrollment was 4,634. \n\nThe college offers intercollegiate sports in men's and women's soccer and cross country. The teams are known as the Eagles. \n\nScott offer both Pre-University and technical courses, in which the pre-university courses takes up four semesters which is two years total, enough for an Associate Degree, leading for the students to attend a university, usually one in the state of Iowa or Western Illinois University at their campus setting in Moline. The technical courses not just carried Associate as well but also a Certificate, 30 credits per semester.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2072114", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2072114", "title": "Little Criminals", "text": "Little Criminals\n\nLittle Criminals is a 1977 album by Randy Newman. Like most of Newman's work, the album eschews traditional pop-music themes (\"I'll Be Home\" is the only love song on the album) in favor of musical story-telling, often featuring quirky characters and cynical views. The first song on the album – \"Short People\" – became a hit single in its own right. The album itself peaked at #9 on the US \"Billboard\" 200 chart, Newman's highest-charting album to date.\n\nSome of the instrumental work and backing vocals on the album are performed by members of the Eagles. In particular, Glenn Frey played guitar on two tracks, Joe Walsh played guitar on three tracks, and Don Henley and Tim Schmit sang background vocals on one track each. Frey and J. D. Souther, who had earlier been the duo Longbranch Pennywhistle, sang background vocals on three tracks.\n\nNewman wrote, conducted and played keyboards on all tracks. Synthesizers were programmed by Michael Boddicker.\n\nIn September 1977 the British music magazine \"NME\" published the following interview with Newman talking sardonically about his then new release: \"There's one song about a child murderer,\" Newman deadpans. \"That's fairly optimistic. Maybe. There's one called 'Jolly Coppers on Parade' which isn't an absolutely anti-police song. Maybe it's even a fascist song. I didn't notice at the time. There's also one about me as a cowboy called 'Rider in the Rain'. I think it's ridiculous. The Eagles are on there. That's what's good about it. There's also this song 'Short People'. It's purely a joke. I like other ones on the album better but the audiences go for that one.\"\n\nIt placed 8th in the 1977 Pazz & Jop Critics Poll, and in 2000 it was voted number 468 in Colin Larkin's \"All Time Top 1000 Albums\". \n\nThe song \"Baltimore\" was covered by Nina Simone, Nils Lofgren, The Tamlins, David Gray, Billy Mackenzie, Lianne La Havas, Jazmine Sullivan, Mink Stole, Coldfinger and Nedric Nedo. \"In Germany Before the War\" was covered by British band Diesel Park West on their covers album \"God Only Knows\" in 1992. The song \"I'll Be Home\", meanwhile, had been written by Newman years previously, and was originally recorded in 1970 by Harry Nilsson on his album \"Nilsson Sings Newman\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2072120", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2072120", "title": "Gregory Currie", "text": "Gregory Currie\n\nGregory Currie, FAHA () is a British philosopher and academic. He is Professor of Philosophy at the University of York.\n\nCurrie was educated at the London School of Economics and the University of California, Berkeley. His first posts were in Australia, at the University of Sydney, and in New Zealand, at the University of Otago. He was Professor of Philosophy and Head of the School of Arts at Flinders University, Adelaide. Until September 2013 he was Professor of Philosophy and Director of Research in Humanities at the University of Nottingham; he is currently Professor of Philosophy at the University of York. He is a Past President of the Australasian Association of Philosophy.\n\nCurrie is the Executive Editor of \"Mind and Language\", an Associate Editor of the Australasian Journal of Philosophy, a Past Fellow of St John's College, Oxford, and has held visiting positions at Clare Hall, Cambridge, the London School of Economics, the Institute for Advanced Study, Australian National University, the University of Maryland, College Park and the University of St Andrews.\n\nHis research currently focuses on the arts, imagination, the nature of delusions, and the role of narrative in our thinking. He is working on a book focusing on the value of literature.\n\nIn July 2019, Currie was elected a Fellow of the British Academy (FBA), the United Kingdom's national academy for the humanities and social sciences. He is also a Fellow of the Australian Academy of Humanities (FAHA).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2072133", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2072133", "title": "Keith Cooke", "text": "Keith Cooke\n\nKeith Cooke Hirabayashi (born September 17, 1959; also known as Keith H. Cooke and sometimes credited as Keith Cooke Hirabayashi) is an American martial artist, actor and an occasional stuntman.\n\nCooke has trained in wushu, taekwondo and karate. His awards include being named \"Competitor of the Year\" by \"Black Belt\" magazine in 1985, and five grand champion titles at the U.S. World and U.S. Open Karate tournaments. He is best known for his appearance as Reptile in the video-game movie of \"Mortal Kombat\". He appeared as the younger Sub-Zero in the sequel, \"\".\n\nHe played a leading role in the 1995 science fiction/martial arts thriller \"Heatseeker\", a follow-up to the 1988 Cynthia Rothrock and Richard Norton vehicle \"China O'Brien\" in which he also appeared. He also appeared in the 1997 Chris Farley comedy \"Beverly Hills Ninja\", which starred fellow \"Mortal Kombat\" actor Robin Shou.Their previous role was referenced directly when, during their fight scene, music from \"Mortal Kombat\" begins to play. His mother is American and his late father, Richard Hirabayashi, was Japanese American.\n\nCooke now runs his own martial arts studio.\n\n"}
{"id": "2072136", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2072136", "title": "Lee Lapin", "text": "Lee Lapin\n\nLee Lapin, 1948–2009, was a popular surveillance and espionage author, best known for his offbeat, grammatically questionable, yet information-rich instructional book series, \"How to Get Anything On Anybody\". The series is published by Paladin Press, is now in its third revision, and is frequently included in library collections across North America.\n\nLapin reportedly lived on a small island off the coast of Marin County, California where, for relaxation, he raised wolves.\n\nLee Lapin was the nom de plume of Scott French. He died January 11, 2009, at the home of his son in Colorado.\n\n"}
{"id": "2072146", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2072146", "title": "Gung Ye", "text": "Gung Ye\n\nGung Ye (c. 869 - 24 July 918, ruled 901–918) was the king of the short-lived Hugoguryeo (901–918) (see Later Three Kingdoms) on the Korean peninsula. Although he was a member of the Silla royal family, he became a victim of the power struggle among the royal family members during the late 9th century. He became a rebel leader against the unpopular Silla government, which almost abandoned the affairs of their subjects for the struggle for power among royal family members.\n\nThe exact date of Gung Ye's birth is unknown, but records assume that he was a son of King Gyeongmun; his mother is said to be a beloved lady of the court.\n\nAccording to legend, Gung Ye was born on the traditional holiday of Dano. The royal seer prophesied that a baby born on Dano would bring disaster to the nation, and the court officials and royal family members urged to the king to get rid of the infant. So the king ordered his servants to kill him. However, when the troops rushed to the residence of Gung Ye's mother, she threw her baby from the second floor, with her maid hiding in nearby bushes to catch the baby. Although her plot tricked the soldiers, the maid had accidentally poked the left eye of the baby, causing Gung Ye to lose one eye. She hid Gung Ye and raised him secretly; when she died, Gung Ye became a Buddhist monk at Sedalsa (세달사), a Buddhist temple.\n\nAt the time, the monarch of Silla was Queen Jinseong (Gung Ye's half sister), who was the third and the last female head of state in Korean history (the other two being: Queen Seondeok of Silla and Jindeok of Silla). Queen Jinseong was a powerless ruler and the government was largely corrupted by interventions of royal family members and rampant bribery among members of the royal court. The corrupt government continuously exploited the peasants and farmers, and after a year of famine, massively raised taxes in 889 which led to many revolts and rebellions. Local aristocrats, called \"hojok\" (hangul:호족, hanja:豪族) emerged as de facto rulers of many provinces, with the attention of government concentrated on suppression of rebellion and their own power struggles. Among the rebel leaders and local aristocrats, Gi Hwon and Yang Gil gained the most power.\n\nGung Ye first joined the troops of Gi Hwon in 891 but left shortly after as Gi Hwon did not fully trust him. Gung Ye joined Yang Gil's rebellion force in 892, and became leading general of the rebel forces by defeating the local Silla army and other rebel groups. Most local aristocrats of Myeongju and Paeseo, including Wang Gun, submitted to his force, making him even more powerful than his master Yang Gil. Silla, after nearly a millennium as a centralized kingdom was quickly declining, and Gung Ye instigated his own rebellion in present-day Kaesŏng in 898. After turning against his master, Yang Gil, he eventually defeated and subjugated him and other local lords in central Korea to proclaim himself king of Hugoguryeo in 901.With his rival Gyeon Hwon's Hubaekje taking control of the peninsula's southwest, he opened up the Later Three Kingdoms period of Korean History, a reference to the so-called Three Kingdoms period of Korea, several centuries earlier.\n\nGung Ye changed the country's name to Majin in 904, and moved the capital to Cheorwon in the following year. Since Cheorwon was a fortress located in a mountainous area, he moved people from the populous city of Cheongju and expanded his rule into the Chungcheong region, taking control of almost two-thirds of the land once controlled by Silla. In the same year Gung Ye took over Pyeongyang and called for total destruction of the state of Silla.\n\nSearching for a better way to unite his citizens, he wanted a more potent unifying theology. Therefore, around 905, he turned to religion. He decided what was needed to unite people under his power was religious faith, and using his previous occupation as a Buddhist monk, he referred to himself as Maitreya Buddha, who came to the world to guide and save the suffering people from all hardship. He changed the name of his kingdom to Taebong in 911. \n\nIn his later days, it is recorded that Gung Ye started to suffer from paranoia. He accused many arbitrarily of treason and sentenced anyone who opposed him to death, including Kang, one of his wives, and his two sons. As a result, in 918 four of his own top generals – Hong Yu (hangul:홍유, hanja:洪儒), Bae Hyeongyeong (hangul:배현경, hanja:裵玄慶), Sin Sung-gyeom and Bok Jigyeom (hangul:복지겸, hanja:卜智謙) – overthrew Taebong and enthroned Wang Geon, one of Gung Ye's followers and the previous chief minister, of his nation, as king. Gung Ye is said to have escaped the palace, but was killed shortly thereafter either by a soldier or by peasants who mistook him for a thief.\n\nSoon thereafter, the Goryeo dynasty was proclaimed, and Wang Geon went on to defeat the rivaling Silla and Hubaekje to reunite the three kingdoms in 936.\n\nSome historians present a theory that states that Gung Ye was, in fact, a direct descendant of Go Anseung, who had been the ruler of Goguryeo-Guk, which had been a failed Goguryeo revival state. Records of Silla reported that Go Anseung was given the surname of the Silla Royal Family, \"Kim.\" Therefore, Gung Ye's commonly known origin as a prince of Silla was right in a way, but Gung Ye being a son of a king of Silla may have not been true.\n\nEven though Gung Ye was not able to keep his rule and achieve the reunification of the Korean peninsula under his rule, many scholars today are attempting to review the true character of Gung Ye. Historical records regarding Gung Ye are negative, since many historians during the Goryeo Dynasty tried to justify the coup by Wang Geon that dethroned Gung Ye, in order to give legitimacy to the dynasty. However, even after the founding of Goryeo, many people rejected the rule of Wang Geon and rebelled against the newly formed dynasty; some even voluntarily defected to Gyeon Hwon's Hubaekje. It can be assumed that many people, even after the coup that crowned Wang Geon, favored the rule of Gung Ye and that he was not a total despot as described in history. Some scholars explain Gung Ye's self-proclamation as Buddha as an attempt to strengthen his power, since he, as a royal family member of Silla, had no influence over powerful local landlords and merchants, so he tried to use the power of religion in order to keep his rule, which did not prove to be effective.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2072168", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2072168", "title": "List of formations of the United States Army", "text": "List of formations of the United States Army\n\nThis is a list of historical formations of the United States Army.\nUnits still in existence are in bold.\n\nFor specific eras:\n\n\n\nAirborne, armored, and infantry are grouped separately. The numbering system for the airborne corps is a continuation of the infantry numbering system.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2072187", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2072187", "title": "Flag and coat of arms of Perlis", "text": "Flag and coat of arms of Perlis\n\nThe flag and the coat of arms of Perlis are state symbols of Perlis, a state in Malaysia. centering on Perlis' monarch and agricultural activities, its flag and arms are similar in symbolisation as the state symbols of Kedah, which it neighbours.\n\nThe flag of Perlis consists of a horizontal bicoloured flag with equally proportionate bands of yellow on the upper half and dark blue on the lower half, sharing a similar design only to the flag of Pahang. The yellow band represents the Raja of Perlis, while the blue represents the people; with the yellow band over the blue band, the flag attempts to signify the close relationship forged between the Raja and the people of Perlis. The flag is intended to be produced with a flag proportion of 1:2; a past variant of the flag following a 2:3 proportion, however, is also known.\n\nThe flag is similar to the flag of Ukraine, but has a reversed arrangement of colours with darker shades of blue and yellow as well as a different flag ratio.\n\nThe Raja of Perlis flies his own Royal Standard, consisting of only a yellow flag with the state's coat of arms in green. The yellow, like the Royal Standard of the Yang di-Pertuan Agong and Perlis' state flag, represents royalty, while the emblem identifies the Standard with Perlis' Raja.\n\nA plain white flag with \"Perlis\" written in Jawi was previously used as the monarch's Royal Standard.\n\nThe coat of arms of Perlis, significantly different from the state flag, is illustrated in green and yellow, and consists of only two heraldic elements, a shield and a wreath, which nearly envelops the shield. Details of the arm's heraldic elements are as followed:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2072188", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2072188", "title": "Owen Chase", "text": "Owen Chase\n\nOwen Chase (October 7, 1797 – March 7, 1869) was first mate of the whaler \"Essex\", which a sperm whale rammed and sank on 20 November 1820. Chase wrote about the incident in \"Narrative of the Most Extraordinary and Distressing Shipwreck of the Whale-Ship Essex\". This book, published in 1821, would inspire Herman Melville to write \"Moby-Dick\". Chase was born in Nantucket, Massachusetts, the son of Phebe (Meader) and Judah Chase.\n\nAs first mate of \"Essex,\" 21-year-old Owen Chase left Nantucket on August 12, 1819 on a two-and-a-half-year whaling voyage. On the morning of November 20, 1820, a sperm whale (alleged to be around ), twice rammed \"Essex\", sinking her west of South America. The closest known islands, the Marquesas, were more than to the west and the captain of \"Essex\", George Pollard, intended to make for them but the crew, led by Chase, feared the islands might be inhabited by cannibals and voted to make for South America. Unable to sail against the trade winds, the boats had to sail south for before they could use the Westerlies to turn towards South America, which would still lie another to the east.\n\nOf the 21 men in three whale boats who began the journey, eight survived: three who chose to remain on a barely habitable island and five in two boats who attempted to reach South America and who were forced to resort to cannibalism to remain alive.\n\nAlong with three other survivors of \"Essex,\" Chase returned to Nantucket on \"Eagle\" on June 11, 1821 to find he had a 14-month-old daughter he had never seen named Phoebe. An account of the homecoming was later published in a magazine. A large crowd had gathered at the docks to see the survivors arrive and as they disembarked, had parted without a sound. The survivors walked alone to their homes without a word being spoken.\n\nWithin four months and with the help of a ghostwriter, he completed an account of the disaster, the \"Narrative of the Most Extraordinary and Distressing Shipwreck of the Whale-Ship Essex\"; this was used by Herman Melville as one of the inspirations for his novel \"Moby-Dick\".\n\nIn December 1821 Chase signed on as first mate on the whaler \"Florida\" which sailed on December 20 from New Bedford, Massachusetts, the crew list contains the only extant physical description of Chase; 24 years old, five feet 10 inches, dark complexioned and brown haired. After whaling in the same area where the \"Essex\" sank, the vessel returned to New Bedford on November 26, 1823. Chase was again greeted by a daughter he had never seen, 18-month-old Lydia. On September 14, 1824 a son William was born and Chase's wife Peggy died two weeks later. Nine months later Chase married Nancy Joy, the widow of Matthew Joy who was the first of the \"Essex\" survivors to die. Two months later Chase sailed again, as captain of the \"Winslow.\" The \"Winslow\" fished the Japan grounds before continuing east to dock briefly in San Francisco before sailing for the Pacific ground and finally returning to New Bedford on June 20, 1827. In mid-August \"Winslow\" set sail for the Brazil Banks but was badly damaged in a severe storm south of the Canary Islands that also sank two whaling ships and damaged three more. The ship was forced to return to New Bedford where it took nine months to repair. The ship sailed for the Pacific grounds in mid July 1828, returning early July 1830.\n\nRelatively wealthy from his successful whaling voyages, Chase now stayed in Nantucket for two years to supervise the construction at the Brant Point shipyards of his own whaler, the \"Charles Carrol\" which sailed on October 10, 1832 for a three and a half year voyage. Nine months into the voyage, Chase's wife gave birth to a daughter named Adeline. Nancy Chase died several weeks later. Chase's brother Joseph, captain of \"Catherine,\" was told of the tragedy several months later and passed the news on to Chase when they met in the Pacific ground in August 1834.\n\n\"Charles Carrol\" returned to Nantucket in March 1836 and on April 5 Chase married Eunice Chadwick. In August, Chase departed on another three and a half year whaling voyage. Sixteen months later Eunice gave birth to Charles. Herman Melville wrote of the news in his copy of Chase's narrative:\"For, while I was in the \"Acushnet\" we heard from some whaleship that we spoke, that the captain of the \"Charles Carrol\" - that is Owen Chase - had recently received letters from home, informing him of the certain infidelity of his wife, the mother of several children, one of them being the lad of sixteen, whom I alluded to as giving me a copy of his father's narrative to read. We also heard that this receipt of this news had told most heavily upon Chase, & and that he was of the deepest gloom.\" We know from the ship's log that \"Charles Carrol\" met the whaler \"Hero\" in the grounds, the captain of which was Reuben Joy, brother of Matthew Joy from \"Essex\", and that the two vessels remained together for the unusually long time of two months. It is speculated that it was Joy who passed on the news to Chase. \"Charles Carrol\" docked at Holmes Hole on February 15, 1840 where Chase left the ship and travelled to Nantucket. There he filed for divorce on February 18, which was granted on July 7.\n\nTwo months after the divorce was finalized, Chase married for the fourth and final time to Susan Coffin Chase. He never sailed again. Memories of the harrowing ordeal haunted Chase. He suffered terrible headaches and nightmares. Later in his life, Chase began hiding food in the attic of his Nantucket house on Orange Street and was eventually institutionalized. He remained there for an estimated 8 years and was subsequently released.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2072189", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2072189", "title": "Gina Philips", "text": "Gina Philips\n\nGina Philips (née Consolo; born May 10, 1970) is an American actress. She had recurring roles on David E. Kelley's \"Ally McBeal\", as Sandy Hingle, and \"Boston Public\", as Jenna Miller. She starred as Patricia \"Trish\" Jenner in the 2001 horror film \"Jeepers Creepers\", and reprised her role in a cameo in \"Jeepers Creepers 3\", released in 2017.\n\nPhilips was born in Miami Beach, Florida. She attended the University of Pennsylvania but dropped out halfway through her senior year, in order to pursue acting. However, they allowed her to walk through graduation with the rest of her graduating class since she was only one class shy. Philips is known for her recurring roles on David E. Kelley's \"Ally McBeal\" as Sandy Hingle and \"Boston Public\" as Jenna Miller. She has also made guest appearances on \"\", \"Sliders\", \"ER\", \"\", \"Medium\" and \"Monk\".\n\nPhilips landed her first supporting film role in \"\". It aired on the Fox Network on March 7, 1995. In 1996, Philips had a small role in \"Unforgivable\" as Tammy, the daughter of an abusive father. The film premiered on April 30, 1996, on CBS, and received little to no critical acclaim. In 1997, Philips played her first lead role in \"Born Into Exile\" as Holly, a 14-year-old runaway.\n\nIn 2001, Philips was cast as a lead in the 2001 horror film \"Jeepers Creepers\". The film received mixed reviews from critics. In 2003, Philips was originally going to appear again as Trish Jenner in \"Jeepers Creepers 2\", as the plot was about her character and Patricia Belcher's character hunting down The Creeper, but the plot changed considerably during script rewrites, with Philips turning down what had become a minor role.\nHer next film was the American comedy-drama \"The Anarchist Cookbook\", which received mostly negative reviews.\n\nIn 2004, she starred in the low budget horror films \"Dead & Breakfast\" and \"Jennifer's Shadow\". In 2006, Philips again played a lead in a low-budget horror film, \"Ring Around the Rosie\" as a young woman plagued by horrible visions and dreams of tragic past events while spending time at her grandparents' secluded summerhouse. The next year she starred in the horror film \"The Sickhouse\" and the Lifetime television film \"My Baby Is Missing\". The film was released as a DVD under the title \"Stolen Innocence\" on 7 January 2010.\n\nIn 2011, she began work on the Jennifer Lynch film \"Chained\" (previously titled \"Rabbit\") a Canadian psychological thriller filmed in Regina, Saskatchewan and released in 2012.\n\nShe reprised her previous role, in a brief cameo, in the third \"Jeepers Creepers\" film, \"Jeepers Creepers 3\". Shooting began in Louisiana in February 2017, and the film was released in September of that year.\n"}
{"id": "2072193", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2072193", "title": "The Supermen Lovers", "text": "The Supermen Lovers\n\nThe Supermen Lovers is the stage name of French composer and electronic music producer Guillaume Atlan (), born in Paris on 9 February 1975. Following his 2001 hit single \"Starlight\", Atlan was nominated at the French contest Victoires de la Musique in 2002, and at the 2001 MTV Europe Music Awards for Best French Artist.\n\nAtlan was born in Paris. His mother was a social worker and his father was a doctor and the drummer of the music band Mose. At the age of 8, he started studying solfège piano at the Francis Poulenc conservatory. His training lasted eight years. He released his first electronic album on UK label Cyclo under the name of \"School\", a duet which he took up with Stéphane Bejean-Lebenson. The title track, \"Ain't no Love\" was remixed by Larry Heard in 1999.\n\nIn 1999 Atlan opened his first label, Lafessé records, starting to produce house music under the name of Stan de Mareuil. In 2000, he started his \"The Supermen Lovers\" project in tribute to the Johnny Guitar Watson track \"Superman Lover\". After the release of \"Marathon Man,\" released on his own label, Atlan composed Starlight. Mani Hoffman joined him on this project, singing and co-writing its lyrics with Atlan. Backing vocals were provided by Onili. The track contains a sample of \"East Coast – The Rock\" composed by Charlie Wallert.\n\nAtlan released his first album, \"The Player\" on BMG in 2001. The single \"Starlight\" charted at number 2 in France and in the U.K. and also charted highly in Belgium, Australia, Germany, Spain, and Italy. After several EPs, released between 2001 and 2004, his second album \"Boys in The Wood\" was released at the end of 2004.\n\nIn 2008, Atlan met Rick Bailey of the band Delegation. Bailey asked Atlan to produce a new version of the hit track \"You & I.\" Following the meeting, Atlan decided to work on a new album, in collaboration with 1980s funk artists including Bailey, and Norma Jean Wright from Chic. In collaboration with La Tebwa records, his third album, \"Between The Ages\" was launched in November 2011. There was some positive critical reaction to the tracks \"Say No More,\" \"C'est Bon,\" and \"Take a Chance\". The tracks were remixed by artists such as Todd Edwards, Chloe and Aka Aka.\n\nIn January 2011, Atlan changed the musical direction of \"The Supermen Lovers\", mixing synthesizers, guitars, sequencers and brass ensemble. He was also asked to remix tracks Jupiter, Andy, Spiller and S'Express. In 2013, he created a new label, Word Up Records, on which he released \"Absolute Disco EP\" (2016), \"Walking on the moon EP\" (2017), and \"Clock Sucker EP (2018)\".\n\nStudio albums\n\nEPs\n\nSoundtracks\n\nSingles\n\nRemix\n\n"}
{"id": "2072195", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2072195", "title": "Tom Freund", "text": "Tom Freund\n\nTom Freund is an American singer-songwriter and multi-instrumentalist. Freund's music consists of elements of folk rock, americana and alternative rock. Freund met Ben Harper when he was attending Pitzer College in Claremont, California. In 1992 the duo released an album, \"Pleasure and Pain\". Not long after, he joined the alternative country group The Silos as their bassist, and moved to Austin, Texas. He released his debut solo album, \"North American Long Weekend\", in 1998 and has released albums on his own Surf Road Records since 2000. While releasing his own music, Tom has also contributed to albums by artists including Graham Parker, Mandy Moore, and Josh Kelley. Some of his work, including \"Copper Moon\", appeared on the TV program \"One Tree Hill\", while other songs have appeared on Dawson's Creek and Parenthood.\n\nTom attended Horace Mann School, Fiorello H. LaGuardia High School and Greenwich High School. During high school, Tom was a member of the jazz ensemble as an upright bass player. He was also a member of the prestigious Tri-State McDonald's High School Jazz Ensemble, which landed him an audition with Elizabeth Swados. Swados was impressed by his musical talents and cast Tom in her 1987 production of \"Swing\" as a part of the Next Wave festival at BAM. In the production, Tom played guitar, upright bass and sang both a solo number and as a member of the ensemble. After graduating high school, Freund immediately became involved in the Off Broadway theater scene while taking classes at Columbia University. During this time, Tom was also playing clubs in New York City and doing some TV music work. In 1991, Tom enrolled at Pitzer College. Through a mutual friend, Freund met Ben Harper. The two formed a duo and in 1992 released a record on Cardas Records entitled \"Pleasure and Pain\".\n\nThe limited-release of \"Pleasure And Pain\" in 1992 helped launch both Freund and Harper's careers. Harper signed a record deal with Virgin Records while Freund spent several years playing bass with acclaimed roots-rock band The Silos. In 1998, Freund released his solo debut, \"North American Long Weekend\", on the Mercury subsidiary Red Ant Records. The record received an avalanche of critical accolades, most notably in The New York Times in which Ann Powers called it an \"unexpected gem\" and ranked it #3 in her year-end best-of poll.\n\nFollowing the release of \"North American Long Weekend\", Freund alternated between recording and touring behind his own discs, playing upright bass, electric bass guitar, and mandolin with the likes of British pub-rock great Graham Parker and rising groove-soul sensation Brett Dennen. During this time, Freund became a favorite of NPR's Weekend Edition and performed live on Morning Becomes Eclectic in 2000.\n\nIn 2007, Freund released \"Hug Trees\", a children's record, \"born out of a father finding himself composing songs for and with his daughter.\" The album consists of 11 tracks and featured collaborations with Abra Moore, Brett Dennen and Victoria Williams. The record also contains an eco-friendly motif and encourages kids to go outside and enjoy nature. Freund found influence for the funky \"Freezedance\" in the work of James Brown. In regards to the album, Freund said, \"I've been writing and making music for a long time. Becoming a father just added a beautiful new layer to the whole experience for me. On \"Hug Trees\", my daughter Delilah is my co-producer, my audience, my muse. We created these songs together over the last couple of years. It was very natural to just go ahead and make a record.\"\n\nA summer tour with Ben Harper helped rekindle the old friends' collaborative spirits, which led to Harper getting involved as producer of \"Collapsible Plans\", Freund's fifth full-length album. The album, released in 2008, also featured piano and vocal contributions from Jackson Browne on two tracks. In regards to the record, Freund has commented, \"I wanted to make a record for a long time that really felt like 'a time and a place,' the way records used to be made.\" The song \"Collapsible Plans (Sugar)\" was performed live on Last Call With Carson Daly in January 2009.\n\nIn 2011, Tom released \"The Edge of Venice\" via Surf Road Records. The album was produced by John Alagia (who had previously work with the likes of John Mayer, Jason Mraz, and Dave Matthews Band) and featured nine new songs. \"The Edge of Venice\" was released in the wake of Freund's \"Fit To Screen\" EP, whose songs were featured on NBC's Parenthood. In 2012, Freund appeared in Judd Apatow's film, This Is 40.\n\n\"Two Moons\", Tom's seventh studio record, was released in June 2014. In producing and co-engineering the album, Freund drew upon folk, rock, jazz and other roots sources for an urbane Americana sound. The 11 track album includes collaborations with Ben Harper and Serena Ryder.The record was successfully funded through a PledgeMusic campaign. Although admitting to having some trepidations about going the crowd-sourcing route, Freund wound up a believer. \"I'm very endeared by the Pledge experience,\" he confesses. \"It showed me that people wanted to engage in it. That was moving for me and got me excited.\"\n\nTo promote his album \"Two Moons\" Tom Freund toured in October and November 2014 in Europe as solo headliner (Switzerland, Germany, Denmark, Czech Republic and The Netherlands) and then subsequently opened for Brett Dennen in London, Amsterdam, Barcelona, and Madrid\n\nIn 2015 Tom Freund opened three dates in the UK (London, Manchester, Birmingham) for Ben Harper.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2072196", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2072196", "title": "Southeast Michigan", "text": "Southeast Michigan\n\nSoutheast Michigan, also called Southeastern Michigan, is a region in the Lower Peninsula of the U.S. state of Michigan that is home to a majority of the state's businesses and industries as well as slightly over half of the state's population, most of whom are concentrated in Metro Detroit.\n\nIt is bordered in the northeast by Lake St. Clair, to the south-east Lake Erie, and the Detroit River which connects these two lakes.\n\n\nOther important cities within the core counties of Oakland, Macomb, and Wayne:\n\n\nSome cities are considered within Southeast Michigan, while also being a part of another region or metropolitan area. The following cities tend to identify themselves separately from Southeast Michigan and are isolated from the core counties of Oakland, Macomb, and Wayne.\n\n\n\"See Also:\" Metro Detroit\n\nWith 4,488,335 people in 2010, Metro Detroit was the tenth largest metropolitan area in the United States, while Ann Arbor's metropolitan area ranked 141st with 341,847. Metropolitan areas of Southeast Michigan, and parts of the Thumb and Flint/Tri-Cities, are grouped together by the U.S. Census Bureau with Detroit-Warren-Livonia MSA in a wider nine-county region designated the Detroit–Ann Arbor–Flint Combined Statistical Area (CSA) with a population of 5,428,000.\n\n\nDenotes member counties of the Southeast Michigan Council of Governments (SEMCOG)\n\n\nThe main economic activity is manufacturing cars. Major manufacturing cities are Warren, Sterling Heights, Dearborn (Henry Ford's childhood home) and Detroit, also called \"Motor City\" or \"Motown\". Other economic activities include banking and other service industries. Most people in Livingston, Macomb, Monroe, Oakland, Washtenaw, and Wayne Counties live in urban areas. In the recent years, urban sprawl has affected the areas of Canton, Commerce, Chesterfield, and Clinton townships. The metropolitan area is also home to some of the highest ranked hospitals and medical centers, Such as the Detroit Medical Center(DMC), Henry Ford Hospital, Beaumont Hospital, and the University of Michigan hospital in Ann Arbor.\n\nSEMCOG Commuter Rail is a proposed regional rail link between Ann Arbor and Detroit.\n\nThe Detroit Metro Airport is the busiest in the area with the opening of the McNamara terminal and the now completed North Terminal. The airport is located in Romulus.\n\nManufacturing and service industries have replaced agriculture for the most part. In rural areas of Saint Clair County, Monroe, and Livingston Counties still grow crops such as corn, sugar beets, soy beans, other types of beans, and fruits. Romeo and northern Macomb County is well known for its apple and peach orchards.\n\nMost major Detroit radio stations, such as WJR and WWJ, can be heard in most or all of southeastern Michigan. Port Huron, Howell, Ann Arbor/Ypsilanti, Adrian, and Monroe are also served by their own locally-originating stations. National Public Radio is broadcast locally from Ann Arbor on Michigan Radio WUOM 91.7 FM and from Detroit on WDET-FM 101.9 FM.\n\nMajor television stations include: WJBK Fox 2 (Fox), WXYZ 7 Action News (ABC), WDIV Local 4 (NBC), WWJ-TV channel 62 (CBS) and WKBD channel 50 (CW).\n\nNewspaper\n\nDaily editions of the \"Detroit Free Press\" and \"The Detroit News\" are available throughout the area.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2072213", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2072213", "title": "Human Genetic Diversity: Lewontin's Fallacy", "text": "Human Genetic Diversity: Lewontin's Fallacy\n\n\"Human Genetic Diversity: Lewontin's Fallacy\" is a 2003 paper by A. W. F. Edwards. He criticises an argument first made in Richard Lewontin's 1972 article \"The Apportionment of Human Diversity\", which argued that division of humanity into races is taxonomically invalid. Edwards' paper is reprinted, commented upon by experts such as Noah Rosenberg, and given further context in an interview with philosopher of science Rasmus Grønfeldt Winther in a recent anthology. Edwards' critique is discussed in a number of academic and popular science books, with varying degrees of support.\n\nIn the 1972 study \"The Apportionment of Human Diversity\", Richard Lewontin performed a fixation index (\"F\") statistical analysis using 17 markers, including blood group proteins, from individuals across classically defined \"races\" (Caucasian, African, Mongoloid, South Asian Aborigines, Amerinds, Oceanians, and Australian Aborigines). He found that the majority of the total genetic variation between humans (i.e., of the 0.1% of DNA that varies between individuals), 85.4%, is found within populations, 8.3% of the variation is found between populations within a \"race\", and only 6.3% was found to account for the racial classification. Numerous later studies have confirmed his findings. Based on this analysis, Lewontin concluded, \"Since such racial classification is now seen to be of virtually no genetic or taxonomic significance either, no justification can be offered for its continuance.\"\n\nThis argument has been cited as evidence that racial categories are biologically meaningless, and that behavioral differences between groups cannot have any genetic underpinnings. One example is the \"Statement on 'Race'\" published by the American Anthropological Association in 1998, which rejected the existence of races as unambiguous, clearly demarcated, biologically distinct groups.\n\nEdwards argued that while Lewontin's statements on variability are correct when examining the frequency of different alleles (variants of a particular gene) at an individual locus (the location of a particular gene) between individuals, it is nonetheless possible to classify individuals into different racial groups with an accuracy that approaches 100 percent when one takes into account the frequency of the alleles at several loci at the same time. This happens because differences in the frequency of alleles at different loci are correlated across populations—the alleles that are more frequent in a population at two or more loci are correlated when we consider the two populations simultaneously. Or in other words, the frequency of the alleles tends to cluster differently for different populations.\n\nIn Edwards' words, \"most of the information that distinguishes populations is hidden in the correlation structure of the data.\" These relationships can be extracted using commonly used ordination and cluster analysis techniques. Edwards argued that, even if the probability of misclassifying an individual based on the frequency of alleles at a single locus is as high as 30 percent (as Lewontin reported in 1972), the misclassification probability becomes close to zero if enough loci are studied.\n\nEdwards' paper stated that the underlying logic was discussed in the early years of the 20th century. Edwards wrote that he and Luigi Luca Cavalli-Sforza had presented a contrasting analysis to Lewontin's, using very similar data, already at the 1963 International Congress of Genetics. Lewontin participated in the conference but did not refer to this in his later paper. Edwards argued that Lewontin used his analysis to attack human classification in science for social reasons.\n\nEvolutionary biologist Richard Dawkins discusses genetic variation across human races in his book \"The Ancestor's Tale\". In the chapter \"The Grasshopper's Tale\", he characterizes the genetic variation between races as a very small fraction of the total human genetic variation, but he disagrees with Lewontin's conclusions about taxonomy, writing, \"However small the racial partition of the total variation may be, if such racial characteristics as there are highly correlate with other racial characteristics, they are by definition informative, and therefore of taxonomic significance.\" Neven Sesardic has argued that, unbeknownst to Edwards, Jeffry B. Mitton already made the same argument about Lewontin's claim in two articles published in \"The American Naturalist\" in the late 1970s.\nSimilarly, biological anthropologist Jonathan Marks agrees with Edwards that correlations between geographical areas and genetics obviously exist in human populations, but goes on to note that \"What is unclear is what this has to do with 'race' as that term has been used through much in the twentieth century—the mere fact that we can find groups to be different and can reliably allot people to them is trivial. Again, the point of the theory of race was to discover large clusters of people that are principally homogeneous within and heterogeneous between, contrasting groups. Lewontin's analysis shows that such groups do not exist in the human species, and Edwards' critique does not contradict that interpretation.\"\n\nThe view that, while geographic clustering of biological traits does exist, this does not lend biological validity to racial groups, was proposed by several evolutionary anthropologists and geneticists prior to the publication of Edwards critique of Lewontin.\n\nIn the 2007 paper \"Genetic Similarities Within and Between Human Populations\", Witherspoon \"et al.\" attempt to answer the question, \"How often is a pair of individuals from one population genetically more dissimilar than two individuals chosen from two different populations?\". The answer depends on the number of polymorphisms used to define that dissimilarity, and the populations being compared. When they analysed three geographically distinct populations (European, African and East Asian) and measured genetic similarity over many thousands of loci, the answer to their question was \"never\". However, measuring similarity using smaller numbers of loci yielded substantial overlap between these populations. Rates of between-population similarity also increased when geographically intermediate and admixed populations were included in the analysis.\n\nWitherspoon \"et al.\" conclude that, \"Since an individual's geographic ancestry can often be inferred from his or her genetic makeup, knowledge of one's population of origin should allow some inferences about individual genotypes. To the extent that phenotypically important genetic variation resembles the variation studied here, we may extrapolate from genotypic to phenotypic patterns. [...] However, the typical frequencies of alleles responsible for common complex diseases remain unknown. The fact that, given enough genetic data, individuals can be correctly assigned to their populations of origin is compatible with the observation that most human genetic variation is found within populations, not between them. It is also compatible with our finding that, even when the most distinct populations are considered and hundreds of loci are used, individuals are frequently more similar to members of other populations than to members of their own population. Thus, caution should be used when using geographic or genetic ancestry to make inferences about individual phenotypes\", and warn that, \"A final complication arises when racial classifications are used as proxies for geographic ancestry. Although many concepts of race are correlated with geographic ancestry, the two are not interchangeable, and relying on racial classifications will reduce predictive power still further.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2072223", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2072223", "title": "Mezame No Hakobune", "text": "Mezame No Hakobune\n\n, aka Open Your Mind (international title), is a 2005 three-act musical drama presented on a multidisplay IMAX-like theme theater mixing CG-animated video with live-action footage directed by Japanese filmmaker Mamoru Oshii.\n\nAn OVA compilation version, renamed Open Your Mind: Special Edition, was available in limited quantities only at the Aichi Expo souvenir shop until it was re-released at the end of the expo as a \"Complete Edition\" which included a \"Making of\" bonus DVD and a color booklet.\n\n\"Open Your Mind\" was created for the World Exposition 2005's (\" Expo 2005 Aichi Japan\") \"Mountain of Dreams\" (, \"Yume miru yama\") pavilion. The theme theater had a capacity of 200 viewers and the facility was named \"Floor Plasma Multi MultiDisplay System\" and used 99 screens. The show was available for six months, from March until September 2005, with a new 10 minutes episode released bimonthly.\n\nThe theater was designed as a shrine with each side of the floor screens surrounded by four rows of full sized standing Ku-Nu clones. Above the 139 dog-headed generals hovered the Pan doll appearing in the movie. The goddess was surrounded by silk curtains and the doll footage featured in the \"Intermission: Pan\" scene was shot in the theater.\n\nViewers were divided in two groups with 30 tickets available for the floor (aka \"arena\", ) while the remaining 170 viewers had to go to the second level (known as the \"slope\" ).\n\nThe visual part consisted of a two level multidisplay. The first part was a floor panel linking ninety-six 50\" plasma screens. It was suitable for 1:33 video which could be individually displayed by each monitor or as a synchronized 10 m x 9 m large screen. It was made of a horizontal row of 8 monitors and a vertical row of 12 monitors, which gave a 90m² floor screen and was the world's largest.\n\nThe second part of the facility was a panoramic 3-widescreen 180° multidisplay broadcasting 16:9 footages. Pictures and light effects were also projected on the ceiling, made from eight silk curtains, or the 5 meter acrylic egg-shapped (, \"tamago\") screen.\n\nThe movie score composer Kenji Kawai chose three kinds of music to illustrate the show. One part was made of synthesizer-based new-age pieces, similar to Mike Oldfield's Tubular Bells, the other themes are typically Japanese. One was based on the use of taiko, the folkloric drums backing Noh polyphonic chants sung by a chorus of seven women — This is Kawai's signature since Mamoru Oshii's critically acclaimed and cult \"anime\" feature film, \"Ghost In The Shell\". The other was the remaining meditative part combining Zen music with the soundtrack's natural audio effects.\n\nDue to the technical limitations of video formats the original 360°, bipolar, multidisplay system was reduced to a straight and flat projection which reduces the three dimensional experience and immersion felt in the pavilion version.\n\nThe Special Edition allows a better visibility of the overall film which was reduced in the pavilion due to viewers walking on the floor screen monitor and slope viewers standing in front of the wall widescreens. A benefit of the single screen projection is the removal of the mosaic effect, on the main screen, due to the PNP (Plasma Network System) architecture.\n\nThe soundtrack of the OVA editions is available in both stereo and DD5.1 multichannel versions — the latter being more faithful to the 6.1 channel surround sound original format.\n\nThe tale is of mixed genres, from Science-Fiction to Ecology and through Mythology to Fantasy. It is a three-act musical drama concept with a prologue and epilogue, both named \"intermission\", by Kenji Kawai who is the composer of the score. The characters' introduction and drama is narrated through the lyrics of the opera-like Noh chanted recitation, which is self referred to as \"utai\" () within the movie.\n\nThe plot of \"Open Your Mind\" follows the extra–terrestrial origin of life coming from outerspace as six deities (\"Intermission\" act), evolving into water (\"Sho-ho\") who then emerge into the air (\"Hyakkin\") and to the ground (\"Ku-nu\"). Each of these creatures rules one of the six elements of the \"godai\" philosophy — Earth, Water, Fire, Wind (referred to as \"kaze\" in the Hyakkin chant), Sky and Consciousness (referred to as \"Awakening\" in the movie's title).\n\n\n\"Open Your Mind\" starts as a kind of space journey and exploration of a foreign planet by an advanced civilization. The time is unexplained: it could be an offworld intelligence form visiting our planet, or it could be future human travellers visiting a remote galaxy.\n\nAlso it could be a fabricated dream, \"à la\" \"Soylent Green\", experienced by one of our descendants willing to learn how precious and beautiful the Earth was in its prime and experienced through a chronological and geographical exploration of the planet. Dreams are a classic theme in Oshii's production including \"Urusei Yatsura: Beautiful Dreamer\" and \"The Red Spectacles\". The pavilion concept's name \"Mountain of Dreams\" is probably not a coincidence.\n\nAccording to the theory, agreed by Oshii (), that the futuristic projection of Science Fiction is nothing more than a metaphorous description of the present and current society, just like Montesquieu (in \"Persian Letters\") and Voltaire (in \"L'Ingénu\") implicitly describing -criticizing- their own country through the eyes of a foreign character or civilization, this work could be viewed as a warning (or \"Awakening\") to preserve our, current, highly menaced, biosphere and ecosystem before it is too late. This film was presented at the World Exposition hence its universal message and collective matter.\n\nThe original title \"\"Ark of Awakening\"\" (Mezame no hakobune), is a double reference to the Bible's \"Noah's Ark\" and to Buddha, which means \"awakened\". In this perspective the movie can be interpreted as a futuristic, post-flood, returning trip to Earth on board an ark ship with the featured creatures being part of the breeding stock of saved animals. \"Vis-à-vis\" the amount of religious references being Shinto (animist presentation of nature as a living power, lyrics about \"kami\", \"kagami\" or \"mikoto\"), Buddhism (mandala, music, \"zen\" blue shaded photography, animal headed anthropomorph beings), the Bible (Noah's Ark, Great Flood, Genesis) or the Greek mythology (Centaur, Chimera), and connecting them with the depiction of fantasy ancient or future- races that are the mysterious creatures, this work could also be regarded as a mythological tale of Creation (or Genesis), in the likes of Stanley Kubrick's \"\".\n\nThis introduction begins with the Buddhist representation of the cosmos through mandala shaped cogwheels emitting a mechanical clockwork sound. The following sequence is set in space with a liquid planet soon entered by six shining globes (the Riki-Shou sent by Pan) moving at fast speed and coming from each side of the screen.\n\nThis first live-action scene is set in a foggy forest (which is also an Element in the \"gogyō\" philosophy), inhabited by a group of three mysterious anthropomorph creatures. They are standing still, silent, glowing in their shining white togas, they look like some kind of anthropomorph gods of Buddhist mythology. They are the Riki-Shou, the animal headed generals, sent by Pan. The creature standing in front of the trio is Ku-Nu, the dog face Riki-Shou, on his right is Hyakkin, the eagle faced, while on his left stands Sho-Ho, the fish head general. The action is seen in first person view through the eyes of an untold character which makes the viewer the main character of this story. After a while the viewer leaves the woods and the following acts will introduce the Riki-Shou, one after the other, starting with Sho-Ho. This forest scene will follow and end in the last part of the movie which is set after the Ku-Nu act.\n\nThis unnarrated introduction is wrapped with sounds of nature and Buddhist music that is in homage to Kawai's previous score on the prologue of Oshii's \"Patlabor 2: the Movie\" which takes place in a Cambodian forest and features a giant Buddha statue.\n\n(\"Sho-ho: Mizu no kioku\", lit. \"Sho-ho: Remembrance of water\"\n\"Open Your Mind\" episode available from March 25 until May 24, 2005.\n\"Open Your Mind\" episode available from May 25 until July 24, 2005.\n\nThis act features sequences with a moving crosshair appearing on top of the 3-panel panoramic screen and locking onto flying creatures that explode in a myriad of polygons when fired upon. This presentation is close to the principle opening stage of the \"Panzer Dragoon\" 1995 classic and revolutionary Fantasy/SF 3D shooting game which had a similar use of a 180° screen, dragon back flights, shooting of fantasy flying creatures through a similar crossair and was packed with a New Age score. Mamoru Oshii is an enthusiast gamer playing games such as \"Wizardry\" and \"Virtua Fighter\". In 2001 he envisioned a \"living by the game concept\" in the live-action film \"Avalon\".\nlit. \"Dog Being: Remembrance of Seedling\"\n\"Open Your Mind\" episode available from July 25 until September 25, 2005.\n\nIn this concluding act the viewer gets answers about the origins and nature of the mysterious creatures met in the forest. These were made through scienctific achievements as the civilization was actually human and used nanomachines to modify DNA sections in order to create new hybrid beings; the anthropomorph animals.\n\nKu-nu features a controversial sequence morphing human newborns with puppies. The shock comes less from the creation of a human-dog hybrid race through genetical modifications than from the explicit visual presentation of human and dog newborns as equals through morphing.\n\nFor both ethic, philosophical and religious concerns human genetic manipulations such as cloning are forbidden and a touchy subject, or sometimes a taboo matter, in many countries in Europe and North America while not so in other parts of the globe.\n\nEven though the conception of dog has evolved since Descartes' perception and depiction of animals as just \"mechanical beings\", toward the modern recognition of a more complex nature as argued by the animal rights theory, there is a mostly Western conceptual difference between animals and humans, hence an established hierarchy that means dogs are still considered in some human societies as food, disposable, caged, experimental subjects or used in military warfare such as the mine-dogs (\"hundminen\"). On other hand, according to modern philosophers, the psychoanalyst Françoise Dolto and some psychologists such as Didier Pleux the baby figure has become the only remaining holy figure of agnostic societies which sums up the concept of \"\"l'Enfant-Roi\"\" or \"\"enfant Roi\"\" (French for \"Boy King\" literally \"Child King\"). The 20th century saw the rise and crowning of the Child King which became apparent through various protection measures such as the abolition of child work, the creation of various child care and protection associations, and even the international Convention on the Rights of the Child created in 1989 and applied the following year.\n\nIn 1995 Mamoru Oshii invited viewers of \"Ghost in the Shell\" to open their mind and think about a new social and legal status for autonomous, evolved Artificial Intelligence creatures. Now, ten years later, his \"Ark of Awakening\" work evokes a similar reflection about genetically modified beings and by extension to the status of animals.\n\nThis second filmed part shows the theater as the silk curtains opens to reveal Pan. The last scene is a return to the now deserted forest.\n\nThe pavilion included an \"Open Your Mind\" souvenir shop selling figures, books, keyholders, pamphlets, posters, soundtrack CD and the limited premium DVD \"Special Edition\".\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\"\"I decided to take this offer because I wanted to work on something other than films.I am waiting to get the final products for display, the images to show on the monitors from the vendors.\"...\"Everything should be completed no later than the end of this year.\"...\"I created the concept of the entire project and I supervised all the designs. I did basically the same thing that a director would do to make a film.\"\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2072225", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2072225", "title": "Charles M. Conlon", "text": "Charles M. Conlon\n\nCharles Martin Conlon (November, 1868 – 1945) was an American photographer born in Albany, New York who grew up in the neighboring city of Troy.\n\nConlon started his career working for New York City newspapers in the early 1900s, as a proof-reader, and took up landscape photography as a hobby. New York Evening Telegram editor John B. Foster, who also produced the annual \"Spalding Base Ball Guide\", asked Conlon to take photographs of the players for the well known annual. Conlon later wrote in The Sporting News that \"“'[Foster] came to know about my hobby—taking pictures. He said to me one day, ‘Charley, they need pictures of ball players for the Guide, and there is no reason why you can’t take pictures of the players, as well as landscapes. It will be a good pickup for you, and it will be something for a day off.’”\" \n\nConlon used a Graflex View camera and large format glass plate negatives before switching to film, in all he created at least 30,000 images over his career that spanned 1904-1941. Most of his archive consisted of thousands of portraits of major league baseball players, however his most famous photo is a fortunate action shot of Ty Cobb sliding into third base at Hilltop Park in 1910, upending the fielder, Jimmy Austin. This photo, and many of his images, of baseball's early stars are instantly recognizable, due to having been frequently reprinted over the years and the subject of several books, trading cards and documentaries. The Cobb photo is considered the first \"action\" sports photo.\n\nOn July 23, 1910, Conlon snapped an action photo of Cobb sliding into third . For publication, the original photo was cropped on the right, taking away almost half of the image. That is the version everyone saw until \"Baseball's Golden Age: The Photographs of Charles M. Conlon\" was published in 1993. The excised portion is included and shows more of the right-side bleachers, as well as the left arm of the third base coach.\n\nConlon was actually on the field, being a common practice of the day, \"behind third base, under the hood of a large, tripod-supported Graflex camera\". He was positioned to the outfield side of the third base coach's box, in foul territory. Cobb was on second. New York third baseman Jimmy Austin was playing in for a possible sacrifice bunt. Cobb took off for third, directly toward Conlon, but the batter did not get the bunt down. Austin backpedaled to take the throw from the catcher. Cobb tipped Austin over and the catcher's throw sailed away into left field. Presumably Cobb could have gotten up and scored, but the book does not elaborate.\n\nInitially, there was an issue on whether Conlon got the shot or not. He changed plates, just to be safe, because he did not remember if he had squeezed the shutter bulb or not, and he knew it had potential to be a great shot. It turned out that he had, it was, and baseball had one of its most iconic images.\n\nConlon however did not see much of a financial reward from his most famous image. In 1937, Conlon estimated he had received more than 1,000 royalty payments for the famous image, however these all ranged from only a dime to 50 cents. Many of his most famous photos now sell for five figures.\n\nConlon destroyed possibly thousands of his original glass plate negatives to clear space in his small home, stating in 1937 \"\"Some years ago, I found that my plates were running me out of the house, so I destroyed hundreds of them. Perhaps it was a mistake, but where would I have kept them? It is possible that had we had a Cooperstown museum at the time, they would have found a haven there.\"\n\nConlon retired to his hometown of Troy and died in 1945, predeceased by his wife and having no children or siblings.\n\nAfter his death the famous archive of 8,300 negatives, less than one third of the total number of images he created, was owned by The Sporting News before it was sold in 2010 to disgraced North Little Rock, Arkansas collector and businessman John Rogers. Rogers was arrested on multiple charges including fraud surrounding sports memorabilia and several newspaper and famous photographers archives, including the Conlon Collection, in 2016 after his home and office was raided in 2013. In December 2015 a Arkansas judge ruled the negatives could be sold to pay off some of the millions of dollars in debt owed by Rogers. The archive, now consisting of 7,462 negatives with no record of where the missing negatives went while in Rogers possession, was sold by Heritage Auctions for $1,792,500. Rogers is also being sued by several newspapers and the family of George Burke for fraud as thousands of original negatives from several archives have come up missing.\n\n"}
{"id": "2072230", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2072230", "title": "Australian Aboriginal sign languages", "text": "Australian Aboriginal sign languages\n\nMany Australian Aboriginal cultures have or traditionally had a manually coded language, a signed counterpart of their oral language. This appears to be connected with various speech taboos between certain kin or at particular times, such as during a mourning period for women or during initiation ceremonies for men, as was also the case with Caucasian Sign Language but not Plains Indian Sign Language, which did not involve speech taboo, or deaf sign languages, which are not encodings of oral language. There is some similarity between neighboring groups and some contact pidgin similar to Plains Indian Sign Language in the American Great Plains. \n\nSign languages appear to be most developed in areas with the most extensive speech taboos: the central desert (particularly among the Warlpiri and Warumungu), and western Cape York. Complex gestural systems have also been reported in the southern, central, and western desert regions, the Gulf of Carpentaria (including north-east Arnhem Land and the Tiwi Islands), some Torres Strait Islands, and the southern regions of the Fitzmaurice and Kimberley areas. Evidence for sign languages elsewhere is slim, but they have been noted as far south as the south coast (Jaralde Sign Language) and there are even some accounts from the first few years of the 20th century of the use of sign by people from the south west coast. However, many of the codes are now extinct, and very few accounts have recorded any detail.\n\nReports on the status of deaf members of such Aboriginal communities differ, with some writers lauding the inclusion of deaf people in mainstream cultural life, while others indicate that deaf people do not learn the sign language and, like other deaf people isolated in hearing cultures, develop a simple system of home sign to communicate with their immediate family. However, an Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander dialect of Auslan exists in Far North Queensland (extending from Yarrabah to Cape York), which is heavily influenced by the indigenous sign languages and gestural systems of the region.\n\nSign languages were noted in north Queensland as early as 1908 (Roth). Early research into indigenous sign was done by the American linguist La Mont West, and later, in more depth, by English linguist Adam Kendon.\n\nKendon (1988) lists the following languages:\n\n\nMiriwoong Sign Language is also a developed or perhaps highly developed language.\n\nWith the decline of aboriginal oral and signed languages, an increase in communication between communities and migration of people to Cairns, an indigenous sign language has developed in far northern Queensland, based on mainland and Torres Strait sign languages such as Umpila Sign Language.\n\n"}
{"id": "2072244", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2072244", "title": "C73", "text": "C73\n\nC73 or C-73 may refer to :\n"}
{"id": "2072251", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2072251", "title": "401st Brigade", "text": "401st Brigade\n\nThe 401st \"Iron Tracks\" Brigade (, \"Ikvot HaBarzel\") is an Armored Brigade in the 162nd Division of the Israeli Defence Forces (IDF). Since August 2016 it is commanded by Colonel Ohad Nagma.\n\nEstablished in 1966, 401 Brigade is one of the youngest brigades of the IDF. It took its current form in 1985. \nThe brigade was initially composed of the 46th and 195th Armored Battalions and the 52nd and 34th Infantry Battalions, which were eventually converted to armor. The 34th Battalion was eventually disbanded and re-established in 1988 as an anti-tank battalion, later designated as the 94th \"Duchifat\" (, hoopoe) Mechanized Infantry Battalion. In 2002 it was returned to the brigade, and in 2005 was transferred to the Judea and Samaria Territorial Division.\n\nThe brigade was formed by expanding and splitting the 14th Armored Brigade together with which they held the 160 kilometer long Suez Canal defensive line in Sinai. The brigade was the first to be equipped with American \"Patton\" M60 tanks.\n\nAlong with the 188th Brigade on the Golan Heights the brigade suffered heavy losses in the early days of the war. the 195th Battalion אדם Adam belonged to the brigade in the war.\n\nThe brigade was re-formed and returned to Sinai to continue much the same manner as it did before the war, it was included in the evacuation of Sinai under the Camp David peace agreement with Egypt, moving to the lower Jordan Valley. \nIn 1981 195th Battalion was transferred to the 500th Armored Brigade, although a year later the brigade received the 9th Battalion.\n\nIn the war the brigade took part as a part of the Eastern Corps through the Lebanon ridge. One of the brigade's battalions took part in the Sultan Yaakub engagement, making it all the way to the Beirut-Damascus highway.\n\nThe brigade alternated between varied infantry missions in the West Bank, mainly in the Jordan Valley, with tank missions in the Security Zone in south Lebanon.\n\nSince 2000 the brigade has been serving in the Israeli occupied territories, doing mostly infantry and police duty. It has been re-equipping with Israeli-made Merkava tanks to replace the Magach.\n\nIn July 2006, when the 2006 Lebanon War broke, the 401st Brigade was among the first units to travel up north into battle. The brigade fought mostly in the Eastern zone, by the villages of Markabeh, Bint Jbeil and the Salooky Valley. The 401st Brigade lost 12 of its soldiers in battle, with four killed after their Puma armored engineering vehicle was struck; dozens were injured.\n\nIn 2009, the brigade played a vital role in the Operation Cast Lead. The brigade entered the Gaza Strip through the Netzarim Corridor and kept up its advance until it had reached the coast, effectively cutting the strip in half.\n\nAfter the operation the brigade resumed training.\n\nThe Merkava Mk. IVm tanks of 401st Brigade (IDF) killed between 120-130 Hamas militants during the ground fighting phase of Operation Protective Edge, according to the IDF.\n\n"}
{"id": "2072252", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2072252", "title": "Swedish Canadians", "text": "Swedish Canadians\n\nSwedish Canadians () are Canadian citizens of Swedish ancestry or Swedes who emigrated to and reside in Canada. The Swedish Canadian community in Canada numbers 330,000. The vast majority of them reside west of Lake Superior, primarily in Winnipeg, Calgary, Edmonton and Vancouver. Toronto is the most popular settlement spot for newcomers. Despite having an influential presence and distinctive cultural bond, only 14,000 Canadian persons of Swedish descent speak Swedish.\n\nA few Swedes trickled into Canada even before it became a country in 1867, but the first real wave of immigration began in the late 1890s and ended with the onset of the First World War in 1914. Included in this group were a significant number of farmers who had settled first in the United States.\n\nThe first Swede, Jacob Fahlström, arrived in Canada in 1809, as an employee of the Hudson's Bay Company. He was succeeded in 1812 by another Swedish man, who was accompanied by two other men from Norway and Ireland to populate the Red River Colony in lower Manitoba. A much more substantive wave of Swedish settlers immigrated to Canada from the United States between 1868 and 1914, as land for farming became more and more scarce in America. Crop failures in their home country between 1866 and 1868 encouraged a similar exodus from Sweden.\n\nThe second and largest wave, which came during the 1920s, endured both the depression of the 1930s and the Second World War 1939–45. The third wave, although not as numerous, has been steady since the 1950s.\n\nThe immigrant pattern in Canada differs slightly from their counterpart in the United States. Whereas the majority of the earlier Swedish immigrants in America are from south-central Sweden, a significant portion of the Swedish immigrants in Canada are from the Stockholm region and Northern Sweden.\n\nAs the economic situation improved after the Second World War, the overall emigration rate of Sweden slowed down considerably. Very much like recent Swedish emigrants found in other parts of the world, many of the newcomers are connected with Swedish companies, and do not intend to remain in the country permanently.\n\nMost Swedes settled in western Canada, from northern Ontario to British Columbia. There were only a handful of strictly Swedish communities, the earliest being Scandinavia, Manitoba, in 1885 and Stockholm, Saskatchewan, in 1886. The Census of Canada shows that Swedish immigrants could be found scattered throughout every province and territory, with pockets in rural areas and in some towns and cities.\n\nWinnipeg acted as the Swedish capital of Canada until the 1940s when Vancouver took over this title. A significant number of Swedes live in Calgary and Edmonton and their environs, but the Toronto area is home to the largest concentration of newcomers, where it has one of the largest concentration of Swedish business in North America.\n\nMore than 175 places' names in Canada are of Swedish origin, which include Uppsala (Ontario), Stockholm (Saskatchewan) and Thorsby (Alberta).\n\nSwedish Canadian population by province and territory in Canada in 2011:\nAssimilation was considered by most Swedes as a primary goal to succeed. Early immigrants made every effort to master the English language while supporting a fairly large number of Swedish-language newspapers, including two weeklies. The only Swedish magazine in North America today, the \"Swedish Press\", is published in Vancouver.\n\nSwedes are accustomed to four distinct seasons. Although Sweden is located quite far north (in the Western Hemisphere it would lie in the middle of Hudson Bay), the Gulf Stream keeps Sweden significantly more temperate than would be expected. The reason that so many Swedes settled on the prairies, despite the very different landscape and significantly colder winters, was the availability of land.\n\nNoteworthy Canadians of Swedish origin include former NHL Hockey star Daniel Alfredsson, who is originally from Sweden but has lived in Canada since playing 19 years for the Ottawa Senators, and he eventually acquired Canadian citizenship in September 2016; Canadian Senator Pamela Wallin; Judge Tom Berger, who headed the Mackenzie Valley Pipeline inquiry; architect Arthur Erickson, who designed Roy Thomson Hall in Toronto and the Canadian Embassy in Washington, D.C.; singer-songwriter and recording artist Michael Saxell; Harry Strom, who was the premier of Alberta (1968–1971); naturalist Louise de Kiriline Lawrence, who was the most prolific contributor to the \"Audubon\"; and Ralph Gustafson, who won the Governor General's Award for poetry in 1974.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2072253", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2072253", "title": "Conservation parks of New Zealand", "text": "Conservation parks of New Zealand\n\nConservation park is a type of specially protected status for land held by the Crown in New Zealand for conservation purposes. The status is set up under the Conservation Act 1987 and the parks are administered by the Department of Conservation (DoC).\n\nA conservation park may consist of multiple conservation units – DoC defines a conservation unit as \"a standard grouping of parcels of land which is used in the Department’s National Land Register\". As of 31 March 2005, the conservation parks consisted of 51 conservation units, covering an area of 1,541,281 hectares.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2072258", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2072258", "title": "Meta-Chloroperoxybenzoic acid", "text": "Meta-Chloroperoxybenzoic acid\n\nmeta\"-Chloroperoxybenzoic acid (mCPBA or m\"CPBA) is a peroxycarboxylic acid. A white solid, it is used widely as an oxidant in organic synthesis. mCPBA is often preferred to other peroxy acids because of its relative ease of handling. mCPBA is a strong oxidizing agent that may cause fire upon contact with flammable material.\n\nmCPBA can be prepared by reacting m-Chlorobenzoyl chloride with a basic solution of hydrogen peroxide, followed by acidification.\n\nIt is sold commercially as a shelf-stable mixture that is less than 72% mCPBA, with the balance made up of \"m\"-chlorobenzoic acid (10%) and water. The peroxyacid can be purified by washing the commercial material with a solution buffered at pH = 7.5. Peroxyacids are generally slightly less acidic than their carboxylic acid counterparts, so one can extract the acid impurity by careful control of pH. The purified material is reasonably stable against decomposition if stored at low temperatures in a plastic container.\n\nIn reactions where the exact amount of mCPBA must be controlled, a sample can be titrated to determine the exact amount of active oxidant.\n\nThe main areas of use are the conversion of ketones to esters (Baeyer-Villiger oxidation), epoxidation of alkenes (Prilezhaev reaction), conversion of silyl enol ethers to silyl α-hydroxy ketones (Rubottom oxidation), oxidation of sulfides to sulfoxides and sulfones, and oxidation of amines to produce amine oxides. The following scheme shows the epoxidation of cyclohexene with mCPBA.\n\nThe epoxidation mechanism is concerted: the \"cis\" or \"trans\" geometry of the alkene starting material is retained in the epoxide ring of the product. The transition state of the Prilezhaev reaction is given below:\n\nThe geometry of the transition state, with the peracid bisecting the C-C double bond, allows the two primary frontier orbital interactions to occur: π (HOMO) to σ* (LUMO) and n (HOMO, regarded as a filled p orbital on a sp hybridized oxygen) to π* (LUMO), corresponding, in arrow-pushing terms, to formation of one C-O bond and cleavage of the O-O bond and formation of the other C-O bond and cleavage of the C=C π bond.\n"}
{"id": "2072260", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2072260", "title": "Jeong Yakyong", "text": "Jeong Yakyong\n\nJeong Yakyong / Jung Yak-Yong (5 August 1762 – 7 April 1836), often simply known as ‘Dasan’ (茶山, one of his ‘ho’ / pen-names meaning ‘the mountain of tea’), was born on the 16th day of the 6th lunar month, 1762, in Gwangju county, Gyeonggi province, and died there on the 22nd day of the 2nd lunar month, 1836. He was one of the greatest thinkers of the later Joseon period, wrote highly influential books about philosophy, science and theories of government, held significant administrative positions, was a close confidant of King Jeongjo (ruled 1776-1800), and was noted as a poet. His philosophical position is often identified with the Silhak (practical learning) school, and his concerns are better seen as explorations of Neo-Confucian themes. He spent 18 years in exile in Gangjin, South Jeolla province, from 1801 until 1818, on account of his membership of the Southerners (Nam-in) faction, and also because of the Catholic faith of his elder brother. His clan originated in Naju, South Jeolla Province. At birth he was given the courtesy title (初字 choja) Gwi’nong (歸農), and later he was also known by the ja Miyong (美鏞) and Songbu (頌甫)美庸); among his ho (號, pen-names) were Saam (俟菴), Tagong (籜翁), Taesu (苔叟), Jahadoin (紫霞道人), Cheolmasanin (鐵馬山人), Dasan (茶山), Yeoyudang (與猶堂, the name of his house), and Mundo (文度, his name as a poet). Korean Catholics sometimes claim that he was baptized with the name John Baptist, but there is no documentary proof of this.\n\nDasan's father was Jeong Jae-won (丁載遠, 1730–1792). His eldest brother Yak-hyeon (若鉉, 1751–1821) was the son of a first wife, while Jeong Yak-jong (若鍾, 1760–1801), Yak-jeon (若銓, 1758–1816), and Yakyong were the sons of their father's second wife, Suk-in (淑人, 1730–1770) from the Haenam Yun 尹 family. There was one daughter from this second marriage. Four other daughters were later born of a third marriage.\n\nDasan's father's family traced their descent back to Jeong Ja-geup (丁子伋, 1423–1487) who in 1460 first took a government position under King Sejo. Eight further generations then followed his example. Jeong Si-yun (丁時潤, 1646–1713) and his second son Do-bok (道復, 1666–1720) were the last of the line, since the Southerners’ faction to which the family belonged lost power in 1694. Si-yun retired to a house in Mahyeon-ri to the east of Seoul (now known as Namyangju) in 1699, which was to be Dasan's birthplace. His eldest son, Do-tae (道泰) lived there and was Dasan's direct ancestor. The Southerners remained excluded from official positions until a brief period that began during the reign of King Jeongjo, when Dasan's father was appointed magistrate of Jinju county, thanks to his strong links with the powerful Chae Je-gong (蔡濟恭, 1720–99), who rose until he was appointed third state councillor in 1788. In 1762, the execution of Crown Prince Sado by his father the king so shocked Jeong Jae-won that he withdrew from official life and returned to his home in Mahyeon-ri. This explains the courtesy name Gwi’nong (‘back to farming’) his father gave Dasan, who was born in the same year. As a result, Dasan grew up receiving intense intellectual training from his now unoccupied father.\n\nThe source of Dasan's intellectual interests can be traced to the influence of the great scholar Udam Jeong Si-han (愚潭 丁時翰, 1625–1707) of the same clan, who taught Jeong Si-yun briefly and was then the main teacher of Dasan's ancestor Jeong Do-tae as well as his brother Do-je (1675–1729). One of the most significant thinkers in the next generation was the philosopher-scholar Seongho Yi Ik (星湖 李瀷, 1681–1763) and he saw Udam as the authentic heir of Toegye Yi Hwang (退溪 李滉, 1501–1570). Jeong Do-je transmitted the teachings of Udam to the next generations of the family and so they were passed to Dasan's father and Dasan himself.\n\nSimilarly, Dasan's mother was descended from the family of the famous Southerner scholar-poet Gosan Yun Seon-do (孤山 尹善道, 1587–1671). Yun's great-grandson Gongjae Yun Du-seo (恭齋 尹斗緖, 1668–1715), well known for his skills as a painter, was Dasan's maternal great-grandfather. He and his elder brother were close to Seongho Yi Ik and his brothers, and are credited with reviving the study of the Six Classics, as well as the thought of Toegye.\n\nBy the age of 11, Dasan's mother was impressed by his powers of observation. By the age of 9 he had composed a small collection of poems. In 1776, Dasan was married to Hong Hwabo of the Pungsan Hong clan, the daughter of a royal secretary; in that year he moved to Seoul, where his father received an appointment in the Board of Taxation after the accession of King Jeongjo. When he was 15, Dasan was introduced to the writings of Seongho Yi Ik by one of his descendants, Yi Ga-Hwan (李家煥, 1742–1801) and his brother-in-law Yi Seung-hun (李承薰, 1756–1801) and he was deeply impressed, resolving to devote his life to similar studies.\nIn 1783, Dasan passed the chinsagwa (literary licentiate examination), which allowed him to enter the Seonggyungwan (national Confucian academy).\n\nIn 1784 the king was deeply impressed by the “objectivity” of Dasan's replies to a set of questions he had formulated. This was the start of an increasingly close relationship between the king and Dasan. After the promotion of Chae Je-gong in 1788, Dasan took top place in the \"daegwa\" (higher civil service exam) in 1789 and was offered a position in the Office of Royal Decrees, together with 5 other members of the Southerner faction. This alarmed members of the opposing ‘Old Doctrine’ faction, who soon realized the extent to which the Southerners were being influenced, not only by the Practical Learning introduced to China from Europe, but by Roman Catholicism itself.\n\nIn 1784, Yi Byeok (李蘗, 1754–1786), a scholar who had participated in meetings to study books about the Western (European) Learning, starting in 1777, talked with Dasan about the new religion for the first time in 1784 and gave him a book about it. Whatever his own response may have been, and there is no proof that he ever received baptism, Dasan's immediate family was deeply involved in the origins of the madholic community. His older sister was married to Yi Seung-hun, the Korean who was first baptized as a Catholic in Beijing in 1784 and played a leading role in the early years of the Church's growth. The oldest of Jeong Jae-won's sons, Yak-hyeon, was married to a sister of Yi Byeok. Another daughter, from a third marriage, later married Hwang Sa-yeong (1775–1801), author of the notorious Silk Letter. Dasan's older brother, Jeong Yak-jong (Augustinus) was the leader of the first Catholic community and one of the first victims of the purge launched against Southerners, but especially against Catholics, in 1801, after the sudden death of King Jeongjo.\n\nIn 1789, Yun Ji-chung, one of the first baptized and a cousin to Dasan on his mother's side, had gone to Beijing and received confirmation. Rome had forbidden Catholics to perform ancestral rituals and this was now being strictly applied by the Portuguese Franciscan bishop of Beijing Alexandre de Gouvea. When his mother died in 1791, Yun therefore refused to perform the usual Confucian ceremonies; this became public knowledge, he was accused of impiety and was executed. Some Koreans who had at first been sympathetic, horrified by the Church's rejection of hallowed traditions, turned away. Jeong Yakyong may well have been among them.\n\nDasan was particularly interested in civil engineering and in 1792 the king, impressed by a pontoon bridge he had designed, asked him to design and supervise the construction of the walls for the Hwaseong Fortress (modern Suwon), which surrounded the palace where the king would live when he visited the new tomb he had constructed for his father. Dasan produced radically new techniques and structures, drawing on European, Chinese and Japanese sources. In 1794, after several promotions, the king appointed him as secret envoy to Gyeongi province, investigating reports of corruption.\n\nDasan's most important task in 1795, the 60th anniversary of the birth of Crown Prince Sado, was to help the King decide on a new honorary title for his father. This was a fraught enterprise, the Prince's supporters were members of what was called the Expediency subfaction while his main enemies were members of the Principle subfaction. The Southerners were strong supporters of the King's wish to honor Sado highly and the King was more than grateful. However, he then found it prudent to send Dasan away from court for a time, appointing him to be superintendent of the post station at Geumjeong, South Pyeongan province.\n\nHere, he provided clear proof of his rejection of Catholicism by doing everything possible to persuade the Catholics working there to renounce their faith, and in particular to perform ancestral rites. Almost certainly, it was the Catholics’ rejection of Confucian ritual that had turned him against them. In 1796, he was brought back to Seoul and promoted but his many enemies continued to accuse him of supporting the pro-western Catholics and he preferred to take up a position as county magistrate at Goksan in Hwanghae province.\n\nIn 1799 he even withdrew to his family home but was summoned back to Seoul by the king in 1800.\n\nIn the summer of 1800, King Jeongjo died suddenly. The new king, King Sunjo, was still only a child of 11 and power fell into the hands of the widow of King Yeongjo, often known as Queen Dowager Kim or Queen Jeongsun. Her family belonged to the factions opposed to the reformist, often Catholic, Nam-in group and she had been completely powerless during Jeongjo's reign. She at once launched an attack on the Catholics, who were denounced as traitors and enemies of the state. Jeong Yak-jong was the head of the Catholic community, he was one of the first to be arrested and executed, together with Yi Seung-hun, in the spring of 1801. His eldest son, Jeong Cheol-sang, died then too, executed a month after his father.\n\nSince he was Jeong Yak-jong's younger brother, Jeong Yakyong was sent into exile for some months in Janggi fortress in what is now Pohang, having been found after interrogation with torture not to be a Catholic believer. That might have been that, but what brought Yakyong to Gangjin, where he was forced to spend eighteen years, was the event that served as the final nail in the coffin of the early Catholic community, the Silk Letter Incident. Hwang Sa-yeong, married to one of Dasan's younger sisters, hid in a cave during the persecutions and in October 1801 he finished writing a long letter to the bishop of Beijing, giving a detailed account of the recent events, asking him to bring pressure on the Korean authorities to allow freedom of religion and, disastrously, begging him to ask the Western nations to send a large army to overthrow the Joseon dynasty so that Korea would be subject to China, where Catholicism was permitted. The man carrying this letter, written on a roll of silk wrapped round his body, was intercepted and the Korean authorities made full use of it to show that Catholics were by definition enemies of the state.\n\nThe persecution was intensified and if it had not been very clear that Jeong Yakyong and Jeong Yak-jeon were in no sense Catholic believers, they would surely have been executed. Instead they were sent into exile together, parting ways at Naju, from where Jeong Yak-jeon journeyed on to the island of Heuksando, Yakyong taking the Gangjin road. His exile began in the last days of 1801, on the 23rd day of the eleventh lunar month, the 28th of December in the solar calendar. On that day, he arrived in Gangjin, South Jeolla Province. The newly arrived exile had little or no money and no friends, he found shelter in the back room of a poor, rundown tavern kept by a widow, outside the East Gate of the walled township of Gangjin, and there he lived until 1805. He called his room “Sauijae” (room of four obligations: clear thinking, serious appearance, quiet talking, sincere actions).\n\nBy 1805, much had changed in Seoul. Dowager Queen Kim had died and the young king had come of age and quickly put an end to the violence against Catholics. Three hundred had been killed and many of the rest were exiled or scattered, or had stopped practicing. Jeong Yakyong was free to move about the Gangjin area and in the spring of 1805 he walked up the hill as far as Baeknyeon-sa Temple, where he met the Venerable Hyejang, the newly arrived monk in charge of the temple, who was about ten years younger than himself. They talked and it seems that Hyejang only realized who his visitor was as he was leaving. That night he forced him to stay with him and asked to learn the I Ching from him. They quickly became close companions.\n\nLater the same year, Hyejang enabled Dasan to move out of the tavern and for nearly a year he lived in Boeun Sanbang, a small hermitage at the nearby Goseong-sa temple, which was under Hyejang's control. Finally, in the spring of 1808 he was able to take up residence in a house belonging to a distant relative of his mother, on the slopes of a hill overlooking Gangjin and its bay. It was a simple house, with a thatched roof, but it was there that the exile spent the remaining ten years of his exile, until the autumn of 1818. This is the site now known as “Dasan Chodang.” The hill behind the house was known locally as Da-san (tea-mountain) and that was to become the name by which our exile is best known today, Dasan. Here he could teach students who lodged in a building close to his, forming a close-knit community, and he could write. In his study he accumulated a library of over a thousand books.\n\nDuring his exile he is said to have written 500 volumes. This needs qualifying, since one “work” might fill nearly 50 volumes of the standard size, but he certainly wrote a vast quantity, some 14,000 pages, mainly in order to set out clearly a fundamental reform program for governing the country correctly according to Confucian ideals. During the years of exile he concentrated first on the \"Book of Changes\" (Yi Ching), writing in 1805 the \"Chuyeoksajeon\". A reflection on the Classic of Poetry followed in 1809. He wrote on politics, ethics, economy, natural sciences, medicine and music. After his return from exile, Dasan published his most important works: on jurisprudence \"Heumheumsinseo\" (1819); on linguistics \"Aeongakbi\" (1819); on diplomacy \"Sadekoryesanbo\" (1820); on the art of governing \"Mongminsimseo\" and on administration \"Gyeongsesiryeong\" (1822).\n\nDasan remained in exile in Gangjin until 1818, when he was allowed to return to his family home near Seoul. Attempts to bring him back into government service were blocked by factional politics. He used Yeoyudang as his final pen-name, it was the name of the family home where he lived quietly, near the Han River, until he died in 1836, on his sixtieth wedding anniversary. The main sources for his biography are the two versions of his own ‘epitaph,’ \"Jachan myojimyeong\", and a chronological biography \"Saam seonsaeng yeonbo\" composed by his great-grandson Jeong Gyu-yeong using no longer extant records.\n\nJeong Yakyong had been living in Gangjin for several years when the Ven. Hyejang arrived from Daeheung-sa temple to take charge of Paengnyeon-sa. During those years, spent in a poor inn with very little money, Dasan's health had suffered from the low nutritional value of his food. He suffered from chronic digestive problems. Dasan and Hyejang first met on the 17th day of the 4th month, 1805, not long after Hyejang's arrival. Only a few days after, Dasan sent a poem to Hyejang requesting some tea leaves from the hill above the temple; it is dated in the 4th month of 1805, very soon after their meeting.\n\nThis poem makes it clear that Dasan already knew the medicinal value of tea and implies that he knew how to prepare the leaves for drinking. It has often been claimed that Dasan learned about tea from Hyejang but this and a series of other poems exchanged between them suggests that in fact Hyejang and other monks in the region learned how to make a kind of caked tea from Dasan.\n\nThis would make him the main origin of the ensuing spread of interest in tea. In 1809, the Ven. Cho-ui from the same Daeheung-sa temple came to visit Dasan in Gangjin and spent a number of months studying with him there. Again, it seems more than likely that Cho-ui first learned about tea from Dasan, and adopted his very specific, rather archaic way of preparing caked tea. After that, it was the Ven. Cho-ui who, during his visit to Seoul in 1830, shared his tea with a number of scholars. Among them, some poems were written and shared to celebrate the newly discovered drink, in particular the \"Preface and Poem of Southern Tea\" (南茶幷序) by Geumryeong Bak Yeong-bo.\n\nAfter this, Cho-ui became especially close to Chusa Kim Jeong-hui, who visited him several times bringing him gifts of tea during his exile in Jeju Island in the 1740s. A letter about Dasan's method of making caked tea has survived, dated 1830, that Dasan sent to Yi Si-Heon 李時憲 (1803–1860), the youngest pupil taught by him during his 18 years of exile in Gangjin: “It is essential to steam the picked leaves three times and dry them three times, before grinding them very finely. Next that should be thoroughly mixed with water from a rocky spring and pounded like clay into a dense paste that is shaped into small cakes. Only then is it good to drink.”\n\nJeong is well-known above all for his work in synthesizing the Neo-Confucian thought of the middle Joseon dynasty. In the process, he wrote widely in various fields including law, political theory, and the Korean Confucian classics. He sought to return Korean Confucian scholarship to a direct connection with the original thought of Confucius. He called this return to the classics \"Susa\" learning (수사, 洙泗), a reference to the two rivers that flowed through Confucius' homeland.\n\nJeong published a number of books over various areas, including his best-known \"Mokminsimseo\" (목민심서, 牧民心書, The Mind of Governing the People). Although he was deeply concerned about the problem of poverty during that time, Jeong deeply pondered the issue of poverty and raised questions about the role of government officials. He believed that the government and bureaucrats could and should play a major role in solving the problem of poverty. Dasan stressed the importance of the governor's administering the people with integrity and in a fair manner. According to him, the government was the ruling entity to render aid and favor to the people while the people were the subject of the government's sympathy and rule.\n\nIn the service of this idea, Jeong criticized the philosophers of his time for engaging in both fruitless etymological scholarship and pursuing philosophical theory for their own sake. He argued that scholarship should be re-focused on more important concerns such as music, ritual, and law. This was not only an intellectual but also a political assertion: he argued that the gwageo examinations by which people qualified for royal service should be reformed to focus on these concerns.\n\nYe philosophy takes up a large portion of the writings of Jeong Yakyong. As demonstrated by the fact that the original title of \"Gyeongse Yupyo\" (경세유표, 經世遺表, Design for Good Government), a flagship work of his which presents a blueprint of state management, was \"Bangnye Chobon\" (Draft for the Country's Rites), Jeong uses the concept of \"Ye\" extensively to represent what he aims to achieve with his thought. He focuses this concept on his notion of good government and later extended and branched into his works of classical studies and natural sciences.\n\nDasan's theory of Korean-style sacrificial rites (제사, 祭祀) shows his socio-political concern seeking for the rule of virtue and righteous government. He intended to motivate people into making everyday practices of the human imperatives and to revitalize effectively the traditional society of the late period of Joseon dynasty which had its basis upon Ye (禮, Confucian order). In \"Mokminsimseo\", Dasan formulates the cognitive process of ritual practice focussing on sacrificial rites as follows.\n\n1) The cognition of the ritual object raises the intentional movement of mind/heart toward the ritual object in the cognitive process.\n\n2) The intentionality of mind and heart entails reverence and purification in the ritual process. Ritual practice is significant through sincerity (성, 誠) and seriousness (경, 敬). From the perspective of the cognitive science of religion, Dasan's theory relates cognition with intentional piety in the cognitive process, and combines intentional piety and reverence/purification in ritual practice. Dasan intended to regulate the excessive ritual practices of the literati and restrict popular licentious cults (음사, 淫祀) in accordance with his cognitive formula. From his point of view, Confucianist's ritual conceptions were improper or impractical, and popular licentious cults were impious and overly enthusiastic. In order to solve these problems, He redefined Zhi Hsi's concept of seriousness as attentive concentration of convergent piety into the concept of prudential reverence as intentional pietism. Zhi Hsi's concept of seriousness contains apophatic mysticism like Zen Buddhist Quietism (정, 靜) by mediation, but Dasan's concept of reverence is inclined towards Cataphatic activism by contemplation.\n\nLand reform was an important issue for the Silhak reformers, and Dasan elaborated upon Yu Hyŏngwŏn's land reform proposals. Rather than central state ownership, Dasan proposed a \"village land system,\" in which the village would hold its land in common and farm the land as a whole, while the products of the land would be divided based on the amount of labor contributed.\n\nProfessor Ogawa Haruhisa of Nishogakusha University in Tokyo is very impressed by Dasan:\n\n“In addition to egalitarian ideas, Chông Yag-yong Dasan provided something precious that had been lost at that time. He has these elements that we must learn and revive in these modern times. He formed his philosophy despite his sufferings in exile. I think he will be of interest to contemporary scholars for a long time.”\n\nProfessor Peng Lin at Qinghua University, Beijing teaches the Chinese classics and has a special interest in Dasan's study of rituals. He published in the 1980s research papers on Dasan in the Sônggyun’gwan Journal of East Asian Studies:\n\n“Dasan devoted great efforts in studying rites, to understanding and bringing recognition to traditional culture. I believe that Dasan’s study of rites is highly unique. He studied all the three fields in the study of ritual and this was not common even among Chinese scholars. Many can achieve only partial understanding even after a lifetime study, but Dasan studied all the ritual fields and his research is truly astounding. He wanted to create an ideal society by starting with what already existed. This shows Dasan’s humanistic interest and that intrigues me.”\n\nProfessor Don Baker at the Asia Center of the University of British Columbia, Canada, is interested in Dasan for his role as an intellectual in a period of transition:\n\n“I think that in the twenty-first century we still need to adopt Dasan’s spirit, what I call moral pragmatism. He was a very pragmatic man. He looked at problems and said ‘how can we solve them’. But also he always kept his moral values at the front. We often have in society a material progress for the sake of material progress. Dasan wanted a material progress but a progress that creates a more moral society, therefore I call it moral pragmatism and I think that we still need such spirit today.\"\n\nThere is in Korea a revival of Jeong Yakyong's thought never seen before on that scale for any Korean philosopher. In the not distant past one could hear doubts about even the existence of a Korean philosophy. Since the liberation of Korea in 1945 Western philosophy has prevailed and philosophy departments in most Korean universities teach mainly European modern philosophy. Therefore, Dasan is of great importance as he was able to be enthusiastic for modern Western ideas but remained deeply committed to the depth of Confucianism. He was not defending a tradition for its own sake but wanted to keep the precious values of the early Chinese period because it was a foundation for man and society.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2072266", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2072266", "title": "Hsin Pei", "text": "Hsin Pei\n\nHsin Pei (; born March 13, 1970) was the seventh and eighth term abbot and director of the Fo Guang Shan, an international Chinese Buddhist order based in Taiwan. The youngest abbot ever elected to the order, Hsin Pei was elected by the members of Fo Guang Shan worldwide in 2004 and succeeded retiring abbot Hsin Ting in 2005. As abbot of the Order, Hsin Pei is the second highest monastic in the order, and is second in line to the position of head teacher. His term ended in March 2013. Hsin Pei currently resides in the United States in order to improve his English.\n"}
{"id": "2072269", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2072269", "title": "Carbonel series", "text": "Carbonel series\n\nCarbonel is a children's book series by Barbara Sleigh, first published by Puffin Books from 1955 to 1978. Also published in the US by Bobbs-Merrill from 1955. It has three novels, first \"\" and two sequels, \"The Kingdom of Carbonel\" (Puffin, 1961) and \"Carbonel and Calidor: Being the Further Adventures of a Royal Cat\" (Kestrel Books, 1978), and was based on the old British folk tale \"The King of the Cats\". The first edition of \"Carbonel\" was illustrated by V. H. Drummond, that of \"Kingdom\" by D. M. Leonard, and that of \"Carbonel and Calidor\" by Charles Front. \"Carbonel\" was named a Book of the Month by \"Young Elizabethan\" magazine, as a \"most sensible, it-could-easily-have-happened fairy story\".\n\nThe plot concerns a girl named Rosemary who buys a broom and a cat from an untidy woman in the marketplace. When the cat starts talking to her she learns that she has encountered a witch, selling up to start a new career. Moreover, the cat, Carbonel, just happens to be King of the Cats, presumed missing by his subjects ever since the witch Mrs. Cantrip abducted him. Unfortunately, he can't return to his throne until the enslavement spell Mrs. Cantrip cast on him is undone - so Rosemary, together with her friend John, have to learn a little witchcraft and to track down Mrs. Cantrip for her at-best ambivalent help.\n\nThe first two books are more closely linked than the third. Carbonel has been said to have few real cat characteristics: he is more like Edith Nesbit's Psammead in \"Five Children and It\" (1902), speaking \"with the voice of tart and faintly impatient adulthood\".\n\nCats (albeit non-speaking ones) are also central to Sleigh's stand-alone novel \"No One Must Know\" (1962), about children hiding a cat and her kittens from a landlord who has banned pets.\n\nAnother novel of Sleigh's suitable for the age group is \"The Snowball\" (1969).\n\n"}
{"id": "2072272", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2072272", "title": "Danny Clinch", "text": "Danny Clinch\n\nDanny Clinch is a photographer and film director who was born in Toms River, New Jersey in 1964. He graduated from Toms River High School East in 1982 and after attending Ocean County College, he attended the New England School of Photography, a two-year institution located in Boston, MA.\n\nClinch began his career as an intern for Annie Leibovitz, and went on to photograph the likes of Bob Dylan, Johnny Cash, Bruce Springsteen, Tupac Shakur, The Smashing Pumpkins, Blind Melon, Dave Matthews Band, Phish, Nicole Atkins, and Björk. His \"unobtrusive\" style, according to his bio, is one of the features that Clinch's photographic subjects enjoy.\n\nClinch's photographs have appeared in publications throughout the world, including \"Vanity Fair\", \"Spin\", \"The New Yorker\", \"The New York Times\", and \"Rolling Stone\". Clinch has presented his work in numerous galleries and published three books: Discovery Inn, When the Iron Bird Flies, Still Moving, and, his most recent, Motor Drive. \nIn February 2016, Danny was featured on 60 minutes.\n\nIn 2003, Clinch founded the film company Three on the Tree Productions, based in New York City. He is also among the 43 noted photographers invited to donate a print to \"FOCUS: an auction of the finest photography to benefit City Harvest...\" The fund-raiser on September 18, 2008 supports City Harvest, a food collection bank in New York City. \n\nClinch directed a concert DVD documenting Pearl Jam's 2006 tour of Italy entitled \"Immagine in Cornice\" which was released in 2007. In 2013 he directed the video for the band's single \"Mind Your Manners\". He also directed the DVD portion of Springsteen's \"Devils & Dust\" DVD box-set.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2072281", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2072281", "title": "Ionic radius", "text": "Ionic radius\n\n\"Ionic radius\", \"r\", is the radius of an atom's ion in ionic crystals structure. Although neither atoms nor ions have sharp boundaries, they are sometimes treated as if they were hard spheres with radii such that the sum of ionic radii of the cation and anion gives the distance between the ions in a crystal lattice. Ionic radii are typically given in units of either picometers (pm) or angstroms (Å), with 1 Å = 100 pm. Typical values range from 31 pm (0.3 Å) to over 200 pm (2 Å).\n\nThe concept can be extended to solvated ions in liquid solutions taking into consideration the solvation shell.\n\nIons may be larger or smaller than the neutral atom, depending on the ion's electric charge. When an atom loses an electron to form a cation, the other electrons are more attracted to the nucleus, and the radius of the ion gets smaller. Similarly, when an electron is added to an atom, forming an anion, the added electron increases the size of the electron cloud by interelectronic repulsion.\n\nThe ionic radius is not a fixed property of a given ion, but varies with coordination number, spin state and other parameters. Nevertheless, ionic radius values are sufficiently transferable to allow periodic trends to be recognized. As with other types of atomic radius, ionic radii increase on descending a group. Ionic size (for the same ion) also increases with increasing coordination number, and an ion in a high-spin state will be larger than the same ion in a low-spin state. In general, ionic radius decreases with increasing positive charge and increases with increasing negative charge.\n\nAn \"anomalous\" ionic radius in a crystal is often a sign of significant covalent character in the bonding. No bond is \"completely\" ionic, and some supposedly \"ionic\" compounds, especially of the transition metals, are particularly covalent in character. This is illustrated by the unit cell parameters for sodium and silver halides in the table. On the basis of the fluorides, one would say that Ag is larger than Na, but on the basis of the chlorides and bromides the opposite appears to be true. This is because the greater covalent character of the bonds in AgCl and AgBr reduces the bond length and hence the apparent ionic radius of Ag, an effect which is not present in the halides of the more electropositive sodium, nor in silver fluoride in which the fluoride ion is relatively unpolarizable.\n\nThe distance between two ions in an ionic crystal can be determined by X-ray crystallography, which gives the lengths of the sides of the unit cell of a crystal. For example, the length of each edge of the unit cell of sodium chloride is found to be 564.02 pm. Each edge of the unit cell of sodium chloride may be considered to have the atoms arranged as Na∙∙∙Cl∙∙∙Na, so the edge is twice the Na-Cl separation. Therefore, the distance between the Na and Cl ions is half of 564.02 pm, which is 282.01 pm. However, although X-ray crystallography gives the distance between ions, it doesn't indicate where the boundary is between those ions, so it doesn't directly give ionic radii.\nLandé estimated ionic radii by considering crystals in which the anion and cation have a large difference in size, such as LiI. The lithium ions are so much smaller than the iodide ions that the lithium fits into holes within the crystal lattice, allowing the iodide ions to touch. That is, the distance between two neighboring iodides in the crystal is assumed to be twice the radius of the iodide ion, which was deduced to be 214 pm. This value can be used to determine other radii. For example, the inter-ionic distance in RbI is 356 pm, giving 142 pm for the ionic radius of Rb. In this way values for the radii of 8 ions were determined.\n\nWasastjerna estimated ionic radii by considering the relative volumes of ions as determined from electrical polarizability as determined by measurements of refractive index. These results were extended by Victor Goldschmidt. Both Wasastjerna and Goldschmidt used a value of 132 pm for the O ion.\n\nPauling used effective nuclear charge to proportion the distance between ions into anionic and a cationic radii. His data gives the O ion a radius of 140 pm.\n\nA major review of crystallographic data led to the publication of revised ionic radii by Shannon. Shannon gives different radii for different coordination numbers, and for high and low spin states of the ions. To be consistent with Pauling's radii, Shannon has used a value of \"r\"(O) = 140 pm; data using that value are referred to as \"effective\" ionic radii. However, Shannon also includes data based on \"r\"(O) = 126 pm; data using that value are referred to as \"crystal\" ionic radii. Shannon states that \"it is felt that crystal radii correspond more closely to the physical size of ions in a solid.\" The two sets of data are listed in the two tables below.\n\nFor many compounds, the model of ions as hard spheres does not reproduce the distance between ions, formula_1, to the accuracy with which it can be measured in crystals. One approach to improving the calculated accuracy is to model ions as \"soft spheres\" that overlap in the crystal. Because the ions overlap, their separation in the crystal will be less than the sum of their soft-sphere radii.\nThe relation between soft-sphere ionic radii, formula_2 and formula_3, and formula_1, is given by\n\nformula_5,\n\nwhere formula_6 is an exponent that varies with the type of crystal structure. In the hard-sphere model, formula_6 would be 1, giving formula_8. \nIn the soft-sphere model, formula_6 has a value between 1 and 2. \nFor example, for crystals of group 1 halides with the sodium chloride structure, a value of 1.6667 gives good agreement with experiment. \nSome soft-sphere ionic radii are in the table. \nThese radii are larger than the crystal radii given above (Li, 90 pm; Cl, 167 pm). Inter-ionic separations calculated with these radii give remarkably good agreement with experimental values. Some data are given in the table. Curiously, no theoretical justification for the equation containing formula_6 has been given.\n\nThe concept of ionic radii is based on the assumption of a spherical ion shape. However, from a group-theoretical point of view the assumption is only justified for ions that reside on high-symmetry crystal lattice sites like Na and Cl in halite or Zn and S in sphalerite. A clear distinction can be made, when the point symmetry group of the respective lattice site is considered, which are the cubic groups \"O\" and \"T\" in NaCl and ZnS. For ions on lower-symmetry sites significant deviations of their electron density from a spherical shape may occur. This holds in particular for ions on lattice sites of polar symmetry, which are the crystallographic point groups \"C\", \"C\", \"C\" or \"C\", \"n\" = 2, 3, 4 or 6. A thorough analysis of the bonding geometry was recently carried out for pyrite-type compounds, where monovalent chalcogen ions reside on \"C\" lattice sites. It was found that chalcogen ions have to be modeled by ellipsoidal charge distributions with different radii along the symmetry axis and perpendicular to it.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2072291", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2072291", "title": "Timeline of music in the United States", "text": "Timeline of music in the United States\n\nThis is a timeline of music in the United States. It is divided into several parts.\n\n"}
{"id": "2072293", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2072293", "title": "Kathleen Lockhart", "text": "Kathleen Lockhart\n\nKathleen Lockhart (née Arthur; 9 August 1894 – 18 February 1978) was a British-American actress.\n\nOn August 9, 1894, Lockhart was born as Kathleen Arthur in Southsea, Hampshire, England.\n\nLockhart's entertainment career began on the stage in Britain.\n\nLockhart appear on stage and in Hollywood films for almost forty years. Lockhart has more than 30 film credits.\n\nLockhart and her husband, Gene, occasionally starred opposite each other, most notably as Mr. and Mrs. Bob Cratchit in \"A Christmas Carol\" (1938). Lockhart's daughter, June Lockhart also appeared with them in that film, portraying their daughter. \n\nAfter 1957, Lockhart retired from acting and made no more film appearances, except for a small role in \"The Purple Gang\" (1960).\n\nLockhart has a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame at 6241 Hollywood Boulevard.\n\nIn 1924, Lockhart immigrated to the United States.\nLockhart's husband was Gene Lockhart (died 1957), an actor. Lockhart had a daughter June Lockhart. Lockhart's granddaughter is Anne Lockhart.\n\nOn February 18, 1978, Lockhart died in Los Angeles, California following a long illness.\nLockhart is buried at Holy Cross Cemetery in Culver City, California.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2072308", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2072308", "title": "Whitten Oval", "text": "Whitten Oval\n\nWhitten Oval (currently also known as Victoria University Whitten Oval) is a stadium in the inner-western suburbs of Melbourne, Victoria, Australia, located at 417 Barkly Street, West Footscray. It is the training and administrative headquarters of the Western Bulldogs Football Club, which competes in the Australian Football League (AFL), and the home ground of its women's and reserves teams which compete in AFL Women's (AFLW) and the Victorian Football League (VFL) respectively.\n\nFormerly known as the Western Oval, it was renamed in honour of Ted Whitten, a former player, captain and coach for the club. A statue of Whitten was also erected at the entrance of the oval.\n\nThe Whitten Oval is the centrepiece of a reserve that, from 1860, was a stone quarry used by the railways. In 1866, the quarry was turned into a reserve that included botanical gardens. Other former quarries within the City of Footscray that were turned into public gardens in this era include the Yarraville Reserve, which is the site of the current Yarraville Oval, off Williamstown Road; the Yarraville Gardens, off Hyde Street; and Footscray Park, which fronts the Maribyrnong River.\n\nIn 1879, after moving from ground to ground, the local council granted the local football club permission to use the Western Reserve as their home ground. In 1883, the Footscray Football Club was formed. A year later, the club began hosting games in the botanical gardens. While the gardens became known as the David Spurling Reserve, the oval within the gardens became the Western Oval.\n\nFootscray used Western Oval as its home ground almost continuously until 1997. It was absent from the ground only in 1942, when it was commandeered by military personnel during World War II; during that season, Footscray played its home games at the nearby Yarraville Oval, which was vacant because the VFA, in which the regular tenant Yarraville Football Club competed, was in recess. In 1943, the club returned to Western Oval.\n\nIn 1955, the ground record attendance was set for the oval when 42,354 turned out on 9 July to see then-defending premiers Footscray defeat Collingwood by six points in Round 12, 1955.\n\nIn 1965, Footscray considered leaving Western Oval, and made an application to the City of Sunshine for a lease at the new football ground it was developing at Skinner Reserve, approximately 3 km west in Braybrook; the Sunshine Council ultimately rejected the application, as it would have required the breaking of an agreement it already had with the VFA's Sunshine Football Club.\n\nIn 1983, struggling VFA Division 2 club Yarraville played its home games at Western Oval on Sundays. This was the only season of the arrangement, as the club folded before the 1984 season.\n\nIn 1994, the struggling Fitzroy Football Club began playing its home matches at the Western Oval, sharing the venue with Footscray, as it sought a better financial arrangement than it had received at its previous home Princes Park.\n\nIn 1995, the oval was renamed the Whitten Oval, after the death of the football club's favourite son, Ted Whitten. The driveway leading from Barkly Street to the car park behind the oval was named Whitten Avenue.\n\nIn 1996, the Footscray Football Club attempted to get an injunction against the Fitzroy Football Club merging with any other club in the AFL, claiming such a move would break Fitzroy's 20 year lease to play their home games at Whitten Oval. The court dismissed the claim, saying damages rather than an injunction should have been sought.\n\nFollowing Fitzroy's merger with Brisbane after the 1996 AFL season, the Western Bulldogs moved their primary home ground for matches from Whitten Oval to Optus Oval in Carlton, with the club still scheduled to play two home matches at Whitten Oval. However, prior to their Round 1 encounter with Fremantle, the ground was condemned and the Fremantle match was moved to Optus Oval. Eventually the Western Bulldogs announced their intention to no longer play AFL matches at Whitten Oval, instead playing home games at Optus Oval until moving to Docklands stadium from the 2000 season. A farewell premiership match was staged at the venue in Round 21, 1997 before a crowd of 26,704; the Bulldogs 12.14 (86) defeated 10.8 (68). After moving home matches away from the venue, the Bulldogs retain a training and administrative base at the venue.\n\nThe ground also ceased to be a used as a regular cricket venue at the end of 1996. Until December 1996, it was the home of the Footscray Cricket Club, which played in the Victorian district/premier cricket competition; from 1997, the club moved to the Mervyn G. Hughes Oval in northern Footscray.\n\nAfter the appointment of Campbell Rose as Chief Executive of the football club in 2002, discussions commenced on a redevelopment of Whitten Oval. In September 2004, the club secured a deal for a $19.5m redevelopment, with contributions from the Federal Government ($8.0m), Western Bulldogs Forever Foundation ($5.5m), State Government ($3.0m), AFL ($1.5m) and the City of Maribyrnong ($1.0m). Construction commenced in 2005, and was completed in 2009. The renovated ground includes a 120 place childcare centre, a conference and convention centre and a state-of-the-art sports, medical, and health care centre for the Bulldogs to use as a training base.\n\nIn 2014, the ground started hosting home matches for the Western Bulldogs' reserves team, known as Footscray, which competes in the Victorian Football League. The ground has hosted matches for the club's AFL Women's team since 2017.\n\nA-League soccer team Western United held a match at the venue against Adelaide United on 26 January 2020. Adelaide won the match 4–3 in front of a crowd of 5,988.\n\nFifteen Canary Island date palm trees line the footpath north of the oval, facing Barkly Street. Three Canary Island pine trees are behind these palms. To the west of the oval, between the car park and Hocking Street, there are two more palms.\n\nOf the 15 palms that line the reserve's northern border, 10 are south of the entrance to Whitten Avenue and five are north of the entrance. Behind the palms, to the north of the entrance, is the Lions Club of Footscray Memorial Playground.\n\nThe stadium had a crowd capacity of up to 25,000.\n\nThe ground was known for being particularly long and narrow with deep squarish pockets, and for the wild wind which often bellowed over the ground, particularly at the Geelong Road end. These reasons, most specifically the wind, meant that the Western Oval was the site of many abnormally low scoring games, inaccurate scoring tallies and games in which more than 80% of all scoring was kicked to one end. The ground developed a demographic of the \"ground visiting sides hated to play at\", with passionate Bulldog supporters and its distinctive playing conditions making it an arduous task to leave with a win.\n\nIn a game illustrating the worst that the Western Oval wind could offer, Footscray defeated Fitzroy in a close game, 14.9 (93) to 13.7 (85), in Round 10, 1964 – of the total of 178 points scored in the game, only 7 were scored against the wind. When Footscray played Fitzroy in Round 17, 1927, only 6 of 173 points were kicked against the wind. In 1948's Footscray versus Geelong game, only 2 of the 58 scoring shots were made into the wind. The wind was so fierce that when the Geelong full-back, Bruce Morrison, kicked the ball off after Footscray had scored a behind, the ball floated back over his head and went through the goals. The goal umpire signalled a \"forced behind\". While these are extreme examples, it was common to see no more than two or three goals kicked into the wind, while 14 or 15 would be scored at the other end.\n\nPost-use as a VFL/AFL stadium, the Whitten Oval is now primarily used as the training ground for the Western Bulldogs.\n\nA number of local community groups, schools and sporting organisations utilise the ground; particularly because of its close proximity to the Melbourne CBD and local transport. The ground also plays host to a variety of commercially-oriented tenancies, including retail (The Western Bulldogs merchandise shop, Bulldogs Central) and health (Physioplus Footscray). It also headquarters the WMR (Western Metropolitan Region) division of DEECD, which oversees all government schools in Melbourne's West.\n\nThe Victorian Women's Football League (VWFL) utilises the ground for games and finals. A local Rec Footy competition, the Western Bulldogs Family Day and a host of other community activities throughout the year mean the oval is constantly used.\n\nA-League side Western United play some home matches at the ground.\n\nThe oval is serviced by West Footscray railway station and local bus lines.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2072320", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2072320", "title": "South Indian Education Society High School", "text": "South Indian Education Society High School\n\nS.I.E.S. High School, Matunga (Mumbai) is one of Mumbai's oldest and premier educational institutions. It is a co-educational English medium school, affiliated to Maharashtra Secondary School Certificate (SSC) Board, reputed for its high academic service, discipline and efficient management. The school is recognized by the Municipal Corporation of Greater Mumbai for primary education and Government of Maharashtra (and follows the SSC syllabus). The institution caters to the educational needs of all students irrespective of caste, creed or religion right from the Pre-Primary level to the Secondary level.\n\nIn a meeting of the South Indian Association on 27 December 1931, it was resolved to form a body called the South Indian Education Society to work for the cause of the education of children in Mumbai and its suburbs. The society was registered on 21 April 1932, and a Primary School was started with six students in a rented garage on 6 June 1932. The first principal of the school was P.V. Parameshwar Iyer. By the end of the first year the strength grew to 97 and the school moved to a larger premise. In the following years a plot of ground at the foot of the steps of King's Circle Station was acquired, and gradually the nucleus of the present large building of the High School was set up there and enlarged, and completed in March 1954, by which time it had 4200 students, and was one of the largest schools in the city.\n\nIt is a co-educational English medium school, reputed for its high academic service, discipline and efficient management. The school is recognized by the Municipal Corporation and Government of Maharashtra (and follows the SSC syllabus). The institution caters to the educational needs of all students irrespective of caste, creed or religion right from the Pre-Primary level to the Secondary level. The Pre-Primary section presently houses 500 students, has adopted the Shishu Pahel methodology, a child motivational programme to impart quality education. The Primary sections, which has a strength of 1339 students is governed by the rules and regulations of the BMC (Private Primary Schools). It strictly follows the Grant-in-Code Book which lays down the statutory requirements.\n\nThe school is affordable by the poorest students with minimal yearly fees, and free education for girls up to the fifth standard (grade). The school is located close to the King's Circle railway station and is thus accessible by walk to people living in Matunga, Wadala, Sion, Dadar and C.G.S. colony (Antop Hill).\n\nThe Pre-Primary Section of the school, which follows the Shishu Pahel Methodology plans various programmes like festivals, competitions, field trips, thematic exhibitions and other activities to expose the tiny tots to our great unique Indian Culture. The School is proud to have reigning Champs at Zonal level and State levels who have won prizes every year in sports activities. School also celebrates days of national importance, with due reverence to kindle the fire of patriotism and to kindle the harmony and peace with great zeal and fervour.\n\nThe Cultural Department organises a week-long cultural festival \"Prerna\" which is a conglomeration of all cultural events that are usually spread throughout the year. The following competitions are planned for this occasion; Carnatic Music, Mehendi, Light Music, Rangoli, Group Dance, Monologues, Group Singing, Fancy Dance, Ad-mad, Dramatisation and Mimicry. The Science club organises various educative programmes with the objective of infusing scientific fervour and a spirit of inquiry in the minds of children, while Art circles gives an opportunity for our students to find expression to their talents in painting, drawing, music and dance. For those with a flair for drawing, the art teachers organise special classes and coach students to participate in the Elementary and Intermediate Grade Examination conducted by the Maharashtra Govt. Competitions like 'best out of waste', 'rakhi making', 'greeting cards', 'salad decoration', 'flower arrangement' and 'rangoli' are also organised.\n\nSIES High School believes \"education\" to be helpful in the democratic reconstruction of the Indian society, and hence aims in training the students to be both, a good professional and a sober, rational and discriminating citizen. The management and the staff are determined to make every effort to deepen and broaden the concept of education by enlarging its scope, to include, along with formal instruction, many co-curricular activities and thus help to develop an integrated human personality of the students.\n\nOn 24 February 2008, the year of the Platinum Jubilee of the school, the batch of students that joined the school in its Silver Jubilee year—1958—and passed out in 1969, held their \"golden reunion\"—the first reunion of its kind by any batch of the school.\n\nThe Platinum Jubilee celebrations were held at SIES Nerul on 15 August 2008. Dr. A. P. J. Abdul Kalam, then President of India, present as a guest, inaugurated SIES Education Assistance Trust(SEAT), set up to provide financial assistance to deserving needy students and also honored 75 alumni of SIES who had distinguished themselves. The list includes Dr. Krishnaswami Kasturirangan, former Chairman ISRO; P. S. Narayanaswamy D.G.P. Maharashtra (Retd.), Sridhar Ranganathan (Yahoo! and Shankar Mahadevan Academy), Ms. A. Ananthalakshmi, Shobha Iyer (Basketball—India) singers Hariharan, Shankar Mahadevan, Aruna Sairam, Bombay Sisters, Ganesh-Kumaresh, Shreya Ghoshal, Naresh Iyer.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2072335", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2072335", "title": "Lambeosaurus", "text": "Lambeosaurus\n\nLambeosaurus ( ; meaning \"Lambe's lizard\") is a genus of hadrosaurid dinosaur that lived about 75 million years ago, in the Late Cretaceous period (Campanian) of North America. This bipedal/quadrupedal, herbivorous dinosaur is known for its distinctive hollow cranial crest, which in the best-known species resembled a hatchet. Several possible species have been named, from Canada, the United States, and Mexico, but only the two Canadian species are currently recognized as valid.\n\nMaterial relevant to the genus was first named by Lawrence Lambe in 1902. Over twenty years later, the modern name was coined in 1923 by William Parks, in honour of Lambe, based on better preserved specimens. The genus has a complicated taxonomic history, in part because small-bodied crested hadrosaurids now recognized as juveniles were once thought to belong to their own genera and species. Currently, the various skulls assigned to the type species \"L. lambei\" are interpreted as showing age differences and sexual dimorphism. \"Lambeosaurus\" was closely related to the better known \"Corythosaurus\", which is found in slightly older rocks, as well as the less well-known genera \"Hypacrosaurus\" and \"Olorotitan\". All had unusual crests, which are now generally assumed to have served social functions like noisemaking and recognition.\n\n\"Lambeosaurus\" has a complicated taxonomic history, beginning in 1902 with Lawrence Lambe's naming of hadrosaurid limb material and other bones (originally GSC 419) from Alberta as \"Trachodon marginatus\". In the same publication \"Trachodon altidens\", a left upper jaw (GSC 1092) from the Dinosaur Park Formation was also described by Lambe. In the same volume, Henry Fairfield Osborn suggested \"T. altidens\" could belong to a new genus, which he labelled \"Didanodon\" without further discussion.\n\nPaleontologists began finding better remains of hadrosaurids from the same rocks in the 1910s, in what is now known as the late Campanian-age (Upper Cretaceous) Dinosaur Park Formation. Lambe assigned two new skulls to \"T. marginatus\", and based on the new information, coined the genus \"Stephanosaurus\" for the species in 1914. Unfortunately, there was very little to associate the skulls with the scrappy earlier \"marginatus\" material, so in 1923 William Parks proposed a new genus and species for the skulls, with both generic and specific names honoring Lambe (who had died four years earlier): \"Lambeosaurus lambei\" (type specimen NMC 2869, originally GSC 2869). In the same publication, this species was made the type genus of the new subfamily Lambeosaurinae, as a replacement for the pre-existed Stephanosaurinae.\n\nAlthough the early workers in Alberta did not recognize it at the time, they were finding the remains of juvenile \"Lambeosaurus\" as well. These fossils of small-bodied crested duckbills were interpreted as adults of a distinct lineage of hadrosaurids, the subfamily Cheneosaurinae. In 1920, William Diller Matthew used the name \"Procheneosaurus\" (no species name) in a brief mention of a skeleton at the American Museum of Natural History, from the Dinosaur Park Formation (AMNH 5340). Parks believed that the procedure and description were inadequate for the name to be considered valid, and to address the situation, he coined the genus \"Tetragonosaurus\". Into this genus he placed the type species \"T. praeceps\" (based on ROM 3577) and a second species \"T. erectofrons\" (based on ROM 3578) for small skulls from the Dinosaur Park Formation, and assigned Matthew's \"Procheneosaurus\" skeleton to \"T. praeceps\". Charles M. Sternberg followed in 1935 by adding the slightly larger \"T. cranibrevis\", based on GSC (now NMC) 8633.\n\nThe use of \"Tetragonosaurus\" was rejected by Richard Swann Lull in favor of \"Procheneosaurus\". Lull requested that the name \"Tetragonosaurus\" be suppressed in favor of \"Procheneosaurus\", which was granted, and \"Procheneosaurus\" received official approval from the ICZN as a conserved name. In 1942 he and Wright transferred the \"Tetragonosaurus\" species and, tentatively, \"Trachodon\" \"altidens\", to \"Procheneosaurus\", with \"P. praeceps\" serving as the type species. This usage was generally followed until 1975, when Peter Dodson proposed all three species were actually juveniles of \"Lambeosaurus\".\n\n\"\"Procheneosaurus\"\" \"convincens\", from the Late Cretaceous of Kazakhstan, is known from a nearly complete skeleton missing only the snout and end of the tail. It was named by A. K. Rozhdestvensky in 1968. It has at times been considered synonymous with \"Jaxartosaurus aralensis\", or deserving of its own genus. Bell and Brink (2013) made \"P.\" \"convincens\" the type species of the new genus \"Kazaklambia\".\n\nThe \"cheneosaurines\" weren't the only crested duckbills being studied and named in the early 1900s. It was then the accepted practice to name genera and species for what is now seen as more likely individual variation, variation due to age or sex, or distortion from fossilization. Three more species were named during this period that relate to \"Lambeosaurus\", all in 1935. Sternberg, in the same paper as \"T. cranibrevis\", named a skull and partial skeleton (GSC-8705, now NMC—8705) \"L. magnicristatum\" (corrected in 1937 to \"magnicristatus\"), and a smaller skull (GSC—8705, now NMC—8703) \"L. clavinitialis\", with a less prominent crest and reduced spine pointing from the back. Parks contributed \"Corythosaurus frontalis\", based on skull GSC 5853 (now ROM 869), which differed from the well-known tall, straight, rounded crest of other specimens of \"Corythosaurus\" by having a low crest cocked forward.\n\nNew specimens were not described for many years following the activity of the early 1900s. In 1964 John Ostrom noted that an old species named by Othniel Charles Marsh, \"Hadrosaurus paucidens\", based on USNM 5457, a partial maxilla and squamosal from the Judith River Formation of Fergus County, Montana, was probably a specimen of \"Lambeosaurus\".\n\nIn 1975, Peter Dodson, examining why there should be so many species and genera of lambeosaurine duckbills within such a short geological time frame and small area, published the results of a morphometric study in which he measured dozens of skulls. He found that many of the species had been based on remains that were better interpreted as juveniles or different sexes, something touched on but largely ignored in older literature. For \"Lambeosaurus\", he found that \"L. clavinitialis\" was probably the female of \"L. lambei\", and \"Corythosaurus frontalis\" and \"Procheneosaurus praeceps\" were probably its juveniles. \"L. magnicristatus\" was different enough to warrant its own species. He interpreted \"Procheneosaurus cranibrevis\" and \"P. erectofrons\" as juvenile corythosaurs. However, restudy of the \"Procheneosaurus\"/\"Tetragonosaurus\" remains indicates that within species, assignments had become confused, and the type specimen of \"P. cranibrevis\" was a \"Lambeosaurus\" juvenile, whereas others were \"Corythosaurus\", based on the distinctive form of the contact of the nasal bone with the premaxilla.\n\nDodson's model would become widely accepted, and two species of \"Lambeosaurus\" are regularly recognized today, with a third sometimes accepted. \"L. lambei\" (Parks, 1923) is known from at least 17 individuals, with seven skulls and partial skeletons and around ten isolated skulls. \"L. clavinitialis\" (C.M. Sternberg, 1935), \"Corythosaurus frontalis\" (Parks, 1935), and \"Procheneosaurus praeceps\" (Parks, 1931) are all still regarded as synonyms of \"L. lambei\" in recent reviews. Some palaeontologists suggest that \"L. clavinitialis\" skulls without the backward spine may represent \"L. magnicristatus\" individuals instead,; this was rejected in the 2007 redescription of \"L. magnicristatus\".\n\nThe second species, \"L. magnicristatus\" (C.M. Sternberg, 1935) is only definitely known from two specimens, both with skulls. Unfortunately, the majority of the articulated skeleton of the type specimen has been lost. Many of the bones were extensively damaged by water while in storage and were discarded before description; other portions of this skeleton have also been lost. Its remains come from slightly younger rocks than \"L. lambei\". The specific name is derived from the Latin \"magnus\" \"large\" and \"cristatus\" \"crested\", referring to its bony crest. Additionally, Jack Horner has identified fragmentary lambeosaurine jaws from the Bearpaw Formation of Montana as possibly belonging to \"L. magnicristatus\"; these represent the first lambeosaurine remains from marine rocks.\n\nOther less accepted species have been discussed in the 21st century. \"Lambeosaurus paucidens\" (named by Marsh 1889 and referred to \"Lambeosaurus\" in 1964) is generally regarded as a dubious name and was listed as \"Hadrosaurus paucidens\" in a 2004 review, although at least one author, Donald F. Glut, has accepted it as a species of \"Lambeosaurus\". In this case, the specific epithet is derived from the Latin \"pauci-\" \"few\" and \"dens\" \"tooth\". The irregularities of \"Procheneosaurus cranibrevis\", and the identity of the type as a juvenile lambeosaur, were recognized in 2005. Finally, \"Didanodon \"altidens\"\" has been assigned without comment to \"Lambeosaurus\" in two 21st Century reviews.\n\nDuring the late 1970s, Bill Morris was studying giant lambeosaurine remains from Baja California. He named them \"L.\"? \"laticaudus\" in 1981 (type specimen LACM 17715). Morris used a question mark in his work because no complete crest had been found for his species, and without it a definitive assignment could not be made. From what was known of the skull, he considered it to be most like \"Lambeosaurus\". He interpreted this species as water-bound, due to features like its size, its tall and narrow tail (interpreted as a swimming adaptation), and weak hip articulations, as well as a healed broken thigh bone that he thought would have been too much of a handicap for a terrestrial animal to have survived long enough to heal. This species was later (2012) assigned to the new genus \"Magnapaulia\".\n\n\"Lambeosaurus\", best known through \"L. lambei\", was quite similar to \"Corythosaurus\" in everything but the form of the head adornment. Compared to \"Corythosaurus\", the crest of \"Lambeosaurus\" was shifted forward, and the hollow nasal passages within were at the front of the crest and stacked vertically. It also can be differentiated from \"Corythosaurus\" by its lack of forking nasal processes making up part of the sides of the crest, which is the only way to tell juveniles of the two genera apart, as the crests took on their distinctive forms as the animals aged.\n\n\"Lambeosaurus\" was like other hadrosaurids, and could move on both two legs and all fours, as shown by footprints of related animals. It had a long tail stiffened by ossified tendons that prevented it from drooping. The hands had four fingers, lacking the innermost finger of the generalized five-fingered tetrapod hand, while the second, third, and fourth fingers were bunched together and bore hooves, suggesting the animal could have used the hands for support. The fifth finger was free and could be used to manipulate objects. Each foot had only the three central toes.\n\nThe most distinctive feature, the crest, was different in the two well-known species. In \"L. lambei\", it had a hatchet-like shape when the dinosaur was full-grown, and was somewhat shorter and more rounded in specimens interpreted as females. The \"hatchet blade\" projected in front of the eyes, and the \"handle\" was a solid bony rod that jutted out over the back of the skull. The \"hatchet blade\" had two sections: the uppermost portion was a thin bony \"coxcomb\" that grew out relatively late in life, when an individual neared adulthood; and the lower portion held hollow spaces that were continuations of the nasal passages. In \"L. magnicristatus\", the \"handle\" was greatly reduced, and the \"blade\" expanded, forming a tall, exaggerated pompadour-like crest. This crest is damaged in the best overall specimen, and only the front half remains.\n\nThe Canadian species of \"Lambeosaurus\" appear to have been similar in size to \"Corythosaurus\", and thus around long. Impressions of the scales are known for several specimens; a specimen now assigned to \"L. lambei\" had a thin skin with uniform, polygonal scutes distributed in no particular order on the neck, torso, and tail. Similar scalation is known from the neck, forelimb, and foot of a specimen of \"L. magnicristatus\".\n\n\"Lambeosaurus\" is the type genus of the Lambeosaurinae, the subfamily of hadrosaurids that had hollow skull crests. Among the lambeosaurines, it is closely related to similar dinosaurs such as \"Corythosaurus\" and \"Hypacrosaurus\", with little separating them but crest form. The relationships among these dinosaur genera are difficult to pick out. Some early classifications placed these genera in the tribe Corythosaurini, which was found by David Evans and Robert Reisz to include \"Lambeosaurus\" as the sister taxon to a clade made up of \"Corythosaurus\", \"Hypacrosaurus\", and the Russian genus \"Olorotitan\"; these lambeosaurines, with \"Nipponosaurus\". However, later researchers pointed out that due to the rules of priority set forth by the ICZN, any tribe containing \"Lambeosaurus\" is properly named Lambeosaurini, and that therefore the name \"Corythosaurini\" is a junior synonym. The following cladogram illustrating the relationships of \"Lambeosaurus\" and its close relatives was recovered in a 2012 phylogenetic analysis by Albert Prieto-Márquez, Luis M. Chiappe and Shantanu H. Joshi.\n\nAs a hadrosaurid, \"Lambeosaurus\" was a large bipedal/quadrupedal herbivore, eating plants with a sophisticated skull that permitted a grinding motion analogous to mammalian chewing. Its teeth were continually replaced and were packed into dental batteries that each contained hundreds of teeth, only a relative handful of which were in use at any time. It used its beak to crop plant material, which was held in the jaws by a cheek-like organ. Feeding would have been from the ground up to around above. As noted by Bob Bakker, lambeosaurines have narrower beaks than hadrosaurines, implying that \"Lambeosaurus\" and its relatives could feed more selectively than their broad-beaked, crestless counterparts.\n\nLike other lambeosaurines such as \"Parasaurolophus\" and \"Corythosaurus\", \"Lambeosaurus\" had a distinctive crest on the top of its head. Its nasal cavity ran back through this crest, making it mostly hollow. Many suggestions have been made for the function or functions of the crest, including housing salt glands, improving the sense of smell, use as a snorkel or air trap, acting as a resonating chamber for making sounds, or being a method for different species or different sexes of the same species to recognize each other. Social functions such as noisemaking and recognition have become the most widely accepted of the various hypotheses.\n\nThe large size of hadrosaurid eye sockets and the presence of sclerotic rings in the eyes imply acute vision and diurnal habits, evidence that sight was important to these animals. The hadrosaurid sense of hearing also appears to be strong. There is at least one example, in the related \"Corythosaurus\", of a slender stapes (reptilian ear bone) in place, which combined with a large space for an eardrum implies a sensitive middle ear, and the hadrosaurid lagena is elongate like a crocodilian's. This indicates that the auditory portion of the inner ear was well-developed. If used as a noisemaker, the crest could also have provided recognizable differences for different species or sexes, because the differing layouts of the nasal passages corresponding to the different crest shapes would have produced intrinsically different sounds.\n\n\"Lambeosaurus lambei\" and \"L. magnicristatus\", from the Dinosaur Park Formation, were members of a diverse and well-documented fauna of prehistoric animals that included such well-known dinosaurs as the horned \"Centrosaurus\", \"Styracosaurus\", and \"Chasmosaurus\", fellow duckbills \"Prosaurolophus\", \"Gryposaurus\", \"Corythosaurus\", and \"Parasaurolophus\", tyrannosaurid \"Gorgosaurus\", and armored \"Edmontonia\" and \"Euoplocephalus\". The Dinosaur Park Formation is interpreted as a low-relief setting of rivers and floodplains that became more swampy and influenced by marine conditions over time as the Western Interior Seaway transgressed westward. The climate was warmer than present-day Alberta, without frost, but with wetter and drier seasons. Conifers were apparently the dominant canopy plants, with an understory of ferns, tree ferns, and angiosperms. The anatomically similar \"L. lambei\", \"L. magnicristatus\", and \"Corythosaurus\" were separated by time within the formation, based on stratigraphy. \"Corythosaurus\" fossils are known from the lower two-thirds of the Formation, \"L. lambei\" fossils are present in the upper third, and \"L. magnicristatus\" remains are rare and present only at the very top, where the marine influence was greater.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2072341", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2072341", "title": "Chittorgarh", "text": "Chittorgarh\n\nChittorgarh (also Chittor or Chittaurgarh) is a major city in Rajasthan state of western India. It lies on the Berach River, a tributary of the Banas, and is the administrative headquarters of Chittorgarh District and a former capital of the Sisodia Rajput Dynasty of Mewar. The city of Chittaurgarh is located on the banks of river Gambhiri and Berach.\n\nChittorgarh is home to the Chittor Fort, the largest fort in India and Asia. It was the site of three major sieges (1303, 1535, and 1567–1568) by Muslim invaders, and its Hindu rulers fought fiercely to maintain their independence. On more than one occasion, when faced with a certain defeat, the men fought to death while the women committed suicide by jauhar (mass self-immolation). Chittor also has been a land of worship for Meera, It is also known for Panna Dai.\n\nOriginally called Chitrakuta, the Chittor Fort is said to have been built by Chitranga, a king of the maurya ( mori ) clan .\n\nThe Guhila (Gahlot) ruler Bappa Rawal is said to have captured the fort in either 728 CE or 734 CE. However, some historians doubt the historicity of this legend, arguing that the Guhilas did not control Chittor before the reign of the later ruler Allata.\n\nIn 1303, the Delhi Sultanate ruler Alauddin Khilji defeated the Guhila king Ratnasimha, and captured the fort. The fort was later captured by Hammir Singh, a king of the Sisodia branch of the Guhilas. Chittor gained prominence during the period of his successors, which included Rana Kumbha and Rana Sanga. In 1535, Bahadur Shah of Gujarat besieged and conquered the fort. After he was driven away by the Mughal emperor Humayun, the fort was given back to Sisodias by him.\n\nIn 1567–68, the Mughal emperor Akbar besieged and captured the fort and it was under Mughal control until the British Indian Empire.\n\nChittorgarh is located at . It has an average elevation of 394 metres (1292 ft).Chittorgarh is located in the southern part of the state of Rajasthan, in the northwestern part of India.It is located beside a high hill near the Gambheri River.Chittorgarh is located between 23° 32' and 25° 13' north latitudes and between 74° 12' and 75° 49' east longitudes in the southeastern part of Rajasthan state.The district encompasses 10,856 square km (3.17 per cent of the Rajasthan State) area of land.\n\nThe completed Golden Quadrilateral highway system passes through Chittorgarh, connecting it to much of the rest of India. The East-West Corridor (Express Highway) also crosses it. Chittorgarh is situated on National Highway No. 76 & 79. National Highway 76 connects to Kota with a driving time of 2 hours.\n\nChittaurgarh Junction is a busy junction of Western Railway of Indian Railways, Ratlam Division. It has direct rail links with all major Indian cities including Ajmer, Udaipur, Jaipur, Delhi, Mumbai, Hyderabad, Kolkata, Pune, chennai, rameswaram, Yeshwantpur, Ahmadabad, Surat, Indore, Ratlam, Gwalior, Bhopal, Nagpur, Bilaspur, and Kota, Mysore.\n\nChittorgarh is well connected to all parts of India by roads. The Golden Quadrilateral Road Project and North-South-East-West corridor expressways pass through Chittorgarh City. The bus stand (bus depot) of Chittorgarh is located between the old and new cities. There are good bus services (private as well as state-owned) available for Delhi, Mumbai, Ahmedabad, Ajmer, Bundi, Kota, Udaipur, and other major cities.\n\nRajasthan Roadways (RSRTC) provides a service for visiting areas around Chittorgarh. Rajasthan Roadways also has premier services called Pink Line, Silver line and Sleeper Coaches (Grey Line).\n\nThe nearest airport is Udaipur (Dabok Airport). The airport is located 70 kilometers from Chittorgarh and linked by daily air service from New Delhi, Jaipur, Jodhpur, Ahmedabad, Chennai, and Mumbai.\n\nThe Chittor Fort seated on a 180-metre hill, covers an expanse of . It was constructed by the Mauryans in the 7th century AD. There is also a belief that it was constructed by Bhima of the Pancha Pandavas. This fort was the citadel of many great Indian warriors such as Gora, Badal, Rana Kumbha, Maharana Pratap, Jaimal, Patta, etc.\n\nKalika Mata Temple was originally built in the 8th century for Sun God and was later converted to a temple for mother Goddess, Kali in the 14th century. During the festival days of Navaratri, fairs are organised and pilgrims from different places come here to pay obeisance at the temple.\n\nVijay Stambha, is a huge nine storey tower which was built by Maharana Kumbha to commemorate his victory over the rulers of Malwa and Gujarat in 1440. The tower is high and stands on a high base. There are sculptures and carvings on the exterior walls of the tower. The tower is visible from any section of the town below. And for reaching tower top one have to climb 157 steps, one can take great view of the surroundings. The inside walls of the tower are carved with images of Gods, weapons, etc.\n\nKirti Stambh (Tower of Fame) is a 22-metre-high (72 ft) tower built in 12th-century.Kirti Stambh is built inside Chittorgarh fort. It is dedicated to Rishabha, the first Tirthankara of Jainism. It was built by a merchant and is decorated with figures form the Jain pantheon.It is a seven storied pillar which was built by Biherwal Mahajan Sanaya of Digambar Jain sect during 12th century AD. On its four corners are engraved idols of Shri Adinathji in Digambar style which each are five feet (about 1.5meters) high and elsewhere are engraved several small idols consecrated to Jain lineage of deities.\n\nRana Kumbha's Palace is near the Vijay Stambh. This is the birthplace of Maharana Udai Singh, the founder of Udaipur. His life was saved by the heroic act of the maid Panna Dhay, who replaced her son in place of the prince, with the result that her son was killed by Banbir. She carried the prince away to safety in a fruit basket. Rani Meera Bai also lived in this palace. This is the place where Rani Padmini committed jauhar with the other ladies in one of the underground cellars.\n\nAccording to legend, Rani Padmini's Palace is from which the Delhi Sultanate ruler Alauddin Khalji was allowed to watch a reflection of the Rani by replacing the mirror at such an angle that even if he turned back he could not see the room. Khalji had been warned by the Rani's husband Rawal Ratan Singh that if he turned back they would cut his neck. \n\nThe legendary Maharana Pratap was a true patriot who initiated the first war of independence. Maharana was born on May 9, 1540, in Kumbhalgarh in Rajsamand district of Rajasthan to Maharana Udai Singh II and Rani Jaivanta Bai Songara. Maharana Pratap has gained amazing respect and honor as he is seen as an epitome of valor, heroism, pride, patriotism and the spirit of independence. His birth anniversary (Maharana Pratap Jayanti) is celebrated as full-fledged festival every year on the 3rd day of Jyestha Shukla phase.\n\nSpecial puja and processions are held in his remembrance on Maharana Pratap Jayanti day everywhere. Several cultural programs such as debate are also organized.\n\nMeera Bai (1498–1547) was a devout follower of Lord Krishna. Meera Bai was one of the foremost exponents of the Prema Bhakti (Divine Love) and an inspired poet. Mira Bai was a Rajput princess who lived in the north Indian state of Rajasthan. Meera was Rajput princess born in about 1498 in Metra, Rajasthan. Her father, Ratan Singh, was the youngest son of Rao Duda, ruler of Merta, and son of Rao Duda ruler and founder of Jodhpur. Ratan Singh belonged to the Rathore clan. She was married to Bhoj Raj, ruler of Chittor.\n\nMeera Smrithi Sansathan (Meera Memorial Trust) along with the Chittorgarh district officials organise Meera Mahotsav every year on Sharad Purnima day (On Mirabai's birth anniversary) for 3 days. Many famous musicians and singers get together to sing bhajans in this celebration. The 3 days celebration also features puja's, discussions, dances, fireworks.\n\nTeej is one of the major festivals in Chittorgarh which is celebrated with great enthusiasm. Teej is the festival of swings. It marks the advent of the monsoon month of Shravan (August). The monsoon rains fall on the parched land and the pleasing scent of the wet soil rises into the air. Swings are hung from trees and decorated with flowers. Young girls and women dressed in green clothes sing songs in celebration of the advent of the monsoon. This festival is dedicated to the Goddess Parvati, commemorating her union with Lord Shiva. Goddess Parvati is worshipped by seekers of conjugal bliss and happiness.\n\nThe Gangaur Festival is the colourful and most important local festival of Rajasthan and is observed throughout the State with great fervour and devotion by womenfolk who worship Gauri, the consort of Lord Shiva during July–August. Gan is a synonym for Shiva and Gaur which stands for Gauri or Parvati who symbolises \"saubhagya\" (marital bliss). Gauri is the embodiment of perfection and conjugal love which is why the unmarried women worship her for being blessed with good husbands, while married women do so for the welfare, health and long life of their spouses and happy married life.\n\nThe fort and the city of Chittorgarh host the biggest Rajput festival called the \"Jauhar Mela\". It takes place annually on the anniversary of one of the jauhars, but no specific name has been given to it. It is generally believed that it commemorates Padmini's jauhar, which is most famous. This festival is held primarily to commemorate the bravery of Rajput ancestors and all three jauhars which happened at Chittorgarh Fort. A huge number of Rajputs, which include the descendants of most of the princely families, hold a procession to celebrate the Jauhar. It has also become a forum to air one's views on the current political situation in the country.\n\nRang Teras is a popular tribal fest of Mewar celebrated on the 13th moon night of the month of Chaitra. A big colorful fair and huge gathering of tribal to rejoice the harvest of wheat has been celebrating Rang Teras is customary since 15th century. It is a thanksgiving festival of farmers. Farmers pay their honor to Mother Earth for providing them food for next year.\n\nChanderiya Lead-Zinc Smelter is one of the largest zinc-lead smelting complexes in the world. Its current metal production capacity is 610,000 tonnes per annum (525,000 tonnes per annum of zinc and 85,000 tonnes per annum of lead). In the year ended March 2013, Chanderiya produced 443,000 MT of zinc and 60,000 MT of lead. The main products are special high grade (SHG) zinc, continuous galvanizing grade (CGG) zinc, prime western (PW) zinc and pure lead. It also produces a number of valuable by-products including silver and cadmium.\n\n"}
{"id": "2072352", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2072352", "title": "Liberation War Museum", "text": "Liberation War Museum\n\nThe Liberation War Museum ( \"Muktijuddho Jadughôr\") is a museum in Sher-e-Bangla Nagar, Dhaka, the capital of Bangladesh, which commemorates the Bangladesh Liberation War that led to the independence of Bangladesh from Pakistan.\n\nThe Liberation War Museum began under the initiative of an eight-person board of trustees as a means of preserving the memory of the 1971 Liberation War. The trustees sought donations from the general public to fund the museum and for the general public to come forward with artifacts to be displayed artifacts from the war, including personal belongings, weapons and human remains, as well as creating an archive of documents and personal histories related to the war. Over the years the museum collected more than 21,000 artifacts (as of 2016), with some as exhibits on display in the museum and many more stored in its archives. The museum describes itself as \"the outcome of a citizens' effort\" due to the crowd-funded nature of the museum (which is independent of the Govt. of Bangladesh) and the collective contribution of the general public to the museum's collection.\n\nDue to a lack of space it was only possible to display a fraction of the collected artifacts at the original premises, so it was decided that a bigger, more modern premises was required. In 2009, an architectural contest was held for the new design of the museum, with architects Tanzim Hasan Salim and Naheed Farzana winning the first prize for their designs. In 2013 land was acquired in Agargaon for the new building and construction began. The new premises of the Liberation War Museum were officially opened on 16 April 2017. The new building provided much more space with 3500 square meters of gallery space.\n\n\"Note:\" These paragraphs relate specifically to the galleries of the older (pre-2017) premises.\n\nThe galleries begin with coverage of the early history of Bangladesh and the Indian independence movement against British Raj in Bengal. A major section records the events of the Language Movement for the recognition of the Bengali language in Pakistan, which is regarded as the beginning of the movement for Bangladesh's independence. Several galleries highlight the building sectional conflict between West Pakistan and Bangladesh (then East Pakistan), the rise of Bengali nationalist leader Sheikh Mujibur Rahman and the events of 1971, when the postponement by Pakistan's military ruler Gen. Yahya Khan of the convening of the National Assembly of Pakistan, in which Sheikh Mujib's Awami League had won a majority, led to the call for the independence of Bangladesh.\n\nThe coverage of the liberation war includes the training and operations of the Mukti Bahini, the guerrilla army built by the Awami League to resist Pakistani forces. Several galleries focus on the genocide carried out by the Pakistani army against the Bengali population, with Operation Searchlight targeting Bengali intellectuals, students, Hindus and Awami League leaders, and the humanitarian crisis created with the pouring of an estimated ten million refugees into neighbouring India.\n\nThe coverage of the war continues to India's support for the Mukti Bahini and its subsequent direct intervention with the outbreak of the Indo-Pakistani War of 1971, which led to the surrender of all Pakistani forces in Bangladesh on 16 December 1971.\n\nThe galleries display the weapons used by the Mukti Bahini, personal effects of many Mukti Bahini fighters and civilian victims of the atrocities committed by Pakistani forces, many donated by their families after the conflict. Also displayed are remains of human skulls and bones retrieved from mass graves of civilians killed by Pakistani forces.\n\nThe museum is involved in a number of outreach and reachout programs. These includes programs working with schools to educate the youth about the Liberation War as well as regular conferences and seminars within the museum premises.\nThe museum also supported for varied art and cultural events. Commissioned artworks and collaborated artist art projects.\nUnder the patronage of the museum, it had several art exhibitions including a Photographic exhibition on the “Liberation War : Towards 25th Anniversary” held at ‘ La Galerie’ in Dhaka[March, 1995], published a Photographic album containing 100 historic photographs portraying the Liberation struggle of Bangali people from the beginning (British Period) ending with the establishment of Bangladesh. The format of this album was such that it could be mounted anywhere for an exhibition [December, 1994], commissioned and collaborated (along with EMK center Dhaka) the war related art project of artist Firoz Mahmud's \"Sucker wfp21\" project [March, 2016] among many others.\n\nIn 2006 the museum was fitted with modern audiovisual and exhibition equipment as a donation from the Japanese government to help preserve the culture and heritage of Bangladesh's independence movement. The museum is an institutional member of the American Alliance of Museums. It is also a founder member of the International Coalition of Historic Site Museums of Conscience.\n\nThe eight person board of trustees of the museum include: Aly Zaker, Asaduzzaman Noor, Sara Zaker, Dr. Sarwar Ali, Mofidul Hoque, Ziauddin Tariq Ali, Rabiul Hussain and H. Akku Chowdhury.\n\n"}
{"id": "2072357", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2072357", "title": "Manuka Oval", "text": "Manuka Oval\n\nManuka Oval (branded UNSW Canberra Oval for Greater Western Sydney Giants home games in the Australian Football League) is a sporting venue in Canberra, the capital of Australia. It is located in Griffith, in the area of that suburb known as Manuka. Manuka Oval has a seating capacity of 13,550 people and an overall capacity of 16,000 people, although this is lower for some sports depending on the configuration used. The area on which the ground is situated has been used for sport since the early 20th century, but was only enclosed in 1929. It has since undergone several redevelopments, most recently beginning in 2011.\n\nCurrently, Manuka Oval is primarily used for cricket (during the summer months) and Australian rules football (during the winter months). The ground was previously also used for rugby league and rugby union matches, but there are now more suitable venues in Canberra for those sports. As a cricket ground, Manuka Oval is the home venue for the ACT Comets (men's) and the ACT Meteors (women's) teams, and has also hosted a number of international matches, including at the 1992 and 2015 World Cups. As an Australian rules football ground, Manuka Oval's primary tenant is the Eastlake Football Club, which plays in the North East Australian Football League (NEAFL). Australian Football League (AFL) games are played at the ground on a semi-regular basis. The Greater Western Sydney Giants have used the oval as a secondary home ground since the club entered the AFL in 2012 and AFL Women's in 2017. Other AFL clubs had previously hosted games at the venue, most notably the North Melbourne Football Club from 1998 to 2006.\n\nThe oval was originally a park officially known as \"Manuka Circle Park\", however by the end of the 1920s it was known as Manuka Oval. The park and nearby shopping centre were named after the \"Leptospermum scoparium\"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s Māori name, Manuka. There was a push for the park to become an enclosed oval starting in 1926 by various sports groups. Work began on Manuka Oval to erect a fence, along with other improvements made in 1929. The field had previously been used to casually play rugby league and Australian rules football. The first cricket pitch was played on in April 1930. The Bradman Pavilion, the oval's main stand, was constructed in 1962 in honour of Sir Donald Bradman. The Robert Menzies Stand and the Bob Hawke Stand were constructed in 1987 and 1992 respectively and were named after the first two Australian Prime Ministers to bring international cricket teams to Canberra to play against the Prime Minister's XI. In 2004, Manuka Oval celebrated the 75th anniversary of its formal establishment.\n\nManuka Oval had a $4.3million upgrade starting from the second half of 2011, which included 4,300 additional temporary seats for the venue, new media and corporate facilities, upgrades to the Hawke and Bradman stands' covering and upgrades to entry facilities.<ref name=\"11/12Budget\"></ref> Floodlights were installed at the ground in late 2012 to allow sport to be played at the venue at night, and were first used on 29 January 2013 for a day-night cricket match between the West Indies and the Prime Minister's XI.\n\nThe first cricket match to be played at the oval was on Easter Monday, 13 April 1930. The Prime Minister's XI is played at the oval annually. It was started by Robert Menzies in 1951, and there were six more matches up to 1965 in his term as Prime Minister. The match was brought back in 1984 by Bob Hawke and has been played annually since. In 1992, the ground hosted its first One Day International (ODI) match between South Africa and Zimbabwe as part of the 1992 Cricket World Cup, but otherwise remained largely unused for top level cricket.\n\nIn 2015, the ground hosted three One Day International (ODI) matches between Bangladesh and Afghanistan, West Indies and Zimbabwe, South Africa and Ireland as part of the 2015 Cricket World Cup.\n\nThe ground is home to the Canberra Comets, who played in the Mercantile Mutual Cup from the 1997–98 season to the 1999–2000 season; the team now plays in the Futures League.\n\nManuka Oval held its second ODI, and its first as part of a normal international tour, on 12 February 2008 between India and Sri Lanka in the Australian tri-series; and it hosted its first international match featuring Australia on 6 February 2013, in which Australia defeated the West Indies by 39 runs. Top level domestic cricket also returned to the ground from 2011–12, with the New South Wales Blues for three seasons playing a Sheffield Shield and Ryobi One Day Cup match each season; and, the ground hosted the 2013/14 Sheffield Shield final, because the Sydney Cricket Ground was unavailable due to a Major League Baseball series.\n\nThe venue sought to host its first Test match in the year 2013 to celebrate the 100th anniversary of the establishment of the city of Canberra, however, the request was not granted.\n\nThe ground hosted the final of the 2014–15 T20 Big Bash on 28 January 2015. The first regular season BBL game was held on 24 January 2018 when the Sydney Thunder hosted the Melbourne Renegades. The first WBBL game at the venue was held on the same day.\n\nIn April 2018, it was confirmed that the Manuka Oval would host its first ever Test match in February 2019. The first test match was held on 1 February 2019 between Australia and Sri Lanka, where four Australian batsmen made centuries.\n\nManuka Oval was the home ground of the Manuka Football Club, an Australian Capital Territory Football League club, from 1928 to 1991, when it merged with the Eastlake Football Club. The merged club, which retained the Eastlake name, continues to play home games at Manuka Oval, both in AFL Canberra competitions and in the North East Australian Football League (NEAFL).\n\nThe oval has served as an occasional venue for Australian Football League matches since 1998, and a permanent home venue since 2012.\n\nBetween 1998 and 2006, the North Melbourne Football Club, hosted a total of eighteen matches at the venue, playing three games per season from 2001 onwards. Brent Harvey was the only player to have played all 18 AFL games featuring the Kangaroos played at Manuka Oval.\n\nFrom 2007 until 2009, the Melbourne Demons and the Western Bulldogs each played a home match against the Sydney Swans at the venue; the Bulldogs continued this arrangement in 2010 and 2011.\n\nSince 2012, the newly established Greater Western Sydney Giants have played three home-and-away matches and one pre-season match at the ground each year. The club's first ever AFL win, against the Gold Coast Suns in Round 7, 2012, took place at this venue. The record crowd for the ground was set when 14,974 attended for the match between the Giants and Richmond, a game the Giants won by 88 points holding Richmond to their lowest score, 3.5 (23). The women's team also plays one home-and-away match at Manuka Oval during the AFL Women's season; their opponents in the 2017 and 2018 matches played in Canberra were, on both occasions, the . Manuka Oval also hosts the home matches of the Belconnen Magpies and Eastlake Demons in the North East Australian Football League competition as well as all eastern conference finals.\n\nFor three seasons beginning with the 2013 AFL season, Manuka Oval was branded as StarTrack Oval Canberra during Australian rules football matches. The naming rights deal expired in early 2016. Since 2017 the venue has commercially been known as the UNSW Canberra Oval.\n\nAs of 2019, Jeremy Cameron holds the record for the most AFL goals kicked at Manuka Oval, kicking 49 goals.\n\nThe second game of the 1948 Great Britain Lions tour was played at the Oval as the touring side beat the Group 8 Rugby League representative side 45–12. During the 1951 French rugby league tour of Australia and New Zealand, Les Chanticleers played a game at the oval against a Monaro side that attracted approximately 5,000 spectators. Manuka Oval hosted one National Rugby League game on 29 May 2001 with the Canberra Raiders moving their game to the ground because of a clash with the ACT Brumbies.\n\nThe Canberra Kookaburras (rugby union) played their home games at Manuka Oval when they competed in the Sydney competition from 1995 until they were excluded from the competition in 2000. The Kookaburras rugby union team rejoined the top Sydney competition in 2004 as the Canberra Vikings however opted to play their home games at Viking Park instead. The Canberra Vikings did make a return to Manuka Oval in 2007 for the Australian Rugby Championship and played three of their four home games at the ground. The other game was played at Canberra Stadium. However the competition was scrapped by the Australian Rugby Union at the end of the year.\n\nManuka Oval has also previously hosted boxing and wrestling. In the inaugural year of the National Soccer League in 1977, Canberra City played its home games at Manuka Oval, but moved to the newly built Bruce Stadium in 1978. Hockey was also played at Manuka Oval until the National Hockey Centre was built.\n\nA two-storey curator's residence is attached to the oval. It was built in the 1930s in the style typically used by the Federal Capital Commission. The trees that circle the oval include cypress, poplar, oak and elm trees, many of which were planted in the 1920s. The Jack Fingleton Scoreboard, originally located at the Melbourne Cricket Ground (MCG), dates to 1901. When an electronic scoreboard was installed at the MCG in the early 1980s, the old scoreboard was relocated to Manuka Oval. The scoreboard is named after Jack Fingleton, an Australian opening batsman, political correspondent in Canberra, and prolific author, who had died shortly before the board's relocation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2072393", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2072393", "title": "Win-win game", "text": "Win-win game\n\nIn game theory, a win–win game is an interaction from which all participants can profit in some way. In conflict resolution, a win–win strategy is a collaborative strategy and conflict resolution process that aims to accommodate all participants. In economics, it is a voluntary transaction where both parties gain wealth, as in the double thank-you of capitalism.\n\n\nGroup-dynamics win–win games have been increasingly popular since the end of the Vietnam war and have been successfully applied to all levels of society.\n\nGroup-dynamics win–win games emphasize the importance of cooperation, fun, sharing, caring and overall group success in contrast to domination, egoistic behavior and personal gain. All players are treated as equally important and valuable. Win–win games often also carry an ethical message of caring for the environment and a holistic approach to life and society. Win–win games are a powerful tool to give people self-confidence and a \"we\" experience, especially when they have suffered from emotional isolation.\n\nAn example would be a game where all players try to carry a huge \"earth ball\" (a ball several meters in diameter) over their heads while negotiating an obstacle course. This is a typical example of a win–win game for several reasons:\n\nThere are also mathematical win–win games, the mathematical term being non-zero-sum games. Such games are often simply represented by a matrix of payouts.\n\n"}
{"id": "2072398", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2072398", "title": "Hauerite", "text": "Hauerite\n\nHauerite is a manganese sulfide mineral with the chemical formula MnS. It forms reddish brown or black octahedral crystals with the pyrite structure and it is usually found associated with the sulfides of other transition metals such as rambergite. It occurs in low temperature, sulfur rich environments associated with solfataras and salt deposits in association with native sulfur, realgar, gypsum and calcite.\n\nIt was discovered in Austro-Hungarian Monarchy in Kalinka (now Vígľašská Huta-Kalinka village) sulfur desposit near Detva in what is now Slovakia in 1846 and named after the Austrian geologists, Joseph Ritter von Hauer (1778–1863) and Franz Ritter von Hauer (1822–1899).\n\nUnder high pressure conditions (P>11 GPa), Hauerite undergoes a large collapse in unit cell volume (22 %) driven by a spin-state transition.\n"}
{"id": "2072405", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2072405", "title": "Anticipating", "text": "Anticipating\n\n\"Anticipating\" is a song recorded by American singer Britney Spears for her self-titled third studio album, \"Britney\" (2001). It was written by Spears alongside the song's producers Brian Kierulf and Josh Schwartz. The song was released on June 21, 2002, by Jive Records, as the fifth single from the album, exclusive to France. \"Anticipating\" is a disco and dance-pop song, influenced by R&B. Lyrically, the song is about friendship and camaraderie between women. It was met with critical praise, with reviewers complimenting its lyrics and comparing it to the 1980s compositions of Madonna, Rick Astley and Janet Jackson's \"All for You\".\n\n\"Anticipating\" achieved minor commercial success, peaking at number 38 on the French Singles Chart. The song was promoted with a performance in the Dream Within a Dream Tour (2001–2002), where Spears wore a patched denim skirt and danced in front of giant crayon drawings. An accompanying music video, directed by Marty Callner, consisted of the performance from \"Britney Spears Live from Las Vegas\". \"Anticipating\" was also promoted in a commercial Spears filmed for Toyota Vios.\n\nDuring the Oops!... I Did It Again Tour (2000), Spears revealed she felt inspired by hip hop artists such as Jay-Z and The Neptunes and wanted to create a record with a funkier sound. In February 2001, Spears signed a $7–8 million promotional deal with Pepsi, and released another book co-written with her mother, entitled \"A Mother's Gift\". On the same month, Spears started to record material for her third studio album, with \"Anticipating\" being recorded at Rusk Sound Studios in Los Angeles, California, the DOJO in Jackson, New Jersey, Sound on Sound Studios and Battery Studios in New York City. The song was written by Spears, Brian Kierulf and Josh Schwartz while produced by Kierulf and Schwartz. It was also mixed at Battery Studios by Stephen George. Audio engineering was done by Aaron Kaplan, Rich Tapper, Jill Tengan and Charles McCrorey. Nile Rodgers played the guitar. Bass guitar and programming was done by Kierulf. Background vocals were provided by Spears and Jennifer Karr. Her third studio album, \"Britney\", was released in November 2001. In an interview with the \"Daily Record\", Spears commented on the track, saying, \"It's just a fun song that I wrote. It's just like being with your girlfriends and just dancing. I think this track also has a very Seventies' feel to it.\" It was released as the fourth single from the album on June 21, 2002 in France.\n\n\"Anticipating\" is a dance-pop that lasts for three minutes and 16 seconds. Corey Moss of MTV noted the song also has a 1970s disco sound, while Joan Anderman of \"The Boston Globe\" compared it to early Madonna tracks such as \"Holiday\" (1983). Glenn Gamboa of \"Newsday\" compared the song to Janet Jackson's \"All for You\", calling it \"pleasant, shimmering R&B-styled pop\". According to the sheetmusic published at musicnotes.com by Universal Music Publishing Group, the song is composed in the key of F major and is set in time signature of common time with a tempo of 112 beats per minute. Spears vocal range spans from the low-key of F to the high-note of A. The song has a basic sequence of B(9)–C–Dm7–B(9) as its chord progression. Lyrically, it talks about friendship and camaraderie between women. During the bridge, Spears sings, \"Gotta really let me know if you want me / You gotta turn me on and make me feel sexy\". During the time of the album's release, her official site stated that \"the girl-power anthem 'Anticipating' proves that Britney is, now more than ever, a force to be reckoned with.\"\n\n\"Anticipating\" received general acclaim from music critics. Jane Stevenson of Jam! called \"Anticipating\" the strongest track in the album. \"Yale Daily News\" writer Catherine Halaby called it a \"fun, cutesy disco ballad\". Nikki Tranker of PopMatters said it \"offers Britney’s fans something a little different with a simple tune beautifully underlined by a well-executed ‘70s disco sound\". Jim Farber of the \"Daily News\" while reviewing the Dream Within a Dream Tour named it along with \"Stronger\", \"[two] girl-power anthems\". Katie Perone of the \"Loyola Greyhound\" said \"[it] is a fun, bubbly song that probably would have had great success on \"Oops!\"\". Barry Walters of \"Rolling Stone\" stated the song is \"a euphoric Rick Astley flashback, [where] she emotes without framing her vocals in Nickelodeon-schooled theatricality\". In a list compiled by Sam Lanksy of \"PopCrush\", \"Anticipating\" was ranked eight in a list of Spears' best songs. In the album review, David Browne of \"Entertainment Weekly\" criticized \"Anticipating\" along with \"Bombastic Love\" for \"[relying] on enervated formulas\". On July 26, 2002, the song entered at number 46 in the French Singles Chart. The following week, it peaked at number 38. \"Anticipating\" spent a total of 13 weeks on the chart.\n\nThe song was performed at the Dream Within a Dream Tour. The performance began with a video interlude of Spears talking to her dancers. She then appeared onstage, wearing a patched denim skirt. The set was made of giant coloring book drawings of houses and cars. After the second chorus, she invited the audience to sing along with her. At the end of the song, she briefly talked to the audience before taking off the skirt and top to perform \"I'm a Slave 4 U\". Shaheem Reid of MTV noted that during the opening night of the tour in Columbus, Ohio, \"Britney must've forgotten that the disco-era throwback cut was brand spanking new, because she kept encouraging everyone to sing along to the chorus [...] Although the crowd clapped and bobbed to the beat, Britney had to go this one alone vocally\". The music video, directed by Marty Callner, consisted of footage of the tour performance from \"Britney Spears Live from Las Vegas\". Several effects were added, including a glittering ball and the name of the song appearing on the screen. The song was also promoted in a commercial Spears filmed for Toyota Vios.\n\n\n\nCredits adapted from \"Britney\"s liner notes.\n\nTechnical\n\nPersonnel\n"}
{"id": "2072415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2072415", "title": "St. Martin's Press", "text": "St. Martin's Press\n\nSt. Martin's Press is a book publisher headquartered in Manhattan, New York City, in the Equitable Building. St. Martin's Press is considered one of the largest English-language publishers bringing to the public some 700 titles a year under eight imprints.\n\nThe imprints include St. Martin's Press (mainstream and bestseller books), St. Martin's Griffin (mainstream paperback books, including science fiction and romance), Minotaur (mystery, suspense, and thrillers), Picador (specialty books), Thomas Dunne Books (suspense and mainstream), and All Points Books (politics).\n\nSt. Martin's Press's current editor in chief is George Witte.\n\nMacmillan Publishers of the UK founded St. Martin's in 1952 and named it after St Martin's Lane in London, where Macmillan Publishers was headquartered. St. Martin's acquired Tor-Forge Books (science fiction, fantasy, and thrillers). In 1995, Macmillan was sold to Holtzbrinck Publishers, LLC, a group of publishing companies held by Verlagsgruppe Georg von Holtzbrinck, a family owned publishing concern based in Stuttgart, Germany, which also owns publishing houses including Farrar, Straus and Giroux (of mostly literary fiction), Holt Publishers (literary non-fiction).\n\nAuthors published by St. Martin's include Sherrilyn Kenyon, M. K. Asante, Charlotte Bingham, John Bingham, Dan Brown, Barbara Taylor Bradford, Ken Bruen, Augusten Burroughs, Stephen J. Cannell, Blaize Clement, Ben Coes, Jackie Collins, Jennifer Crusie, Charles Cumming, Emily A. Duncan, Janet Evanovich, Diane Fanning, Julian Fellowes, Amanda Filipacchi, Joseph Finder, Lauren Fix, Frederick Forsyth, Brigitte Gabriel, Kim Gruenenfelder, James Herriot, L. Ron Hubbard, Murry Hope, Simon Kernick, Lisa Kleypas, Robert Ludlum, Jay Baron Nicorvo, Robert Pagliarini, Gayle Lynds, Joseph Olshan, Michael Palmer, Robin Pilcher, Patrick Quinlan, Cathy Scott, Susan Arnout Smith, Wilbur Smith, Erica Spindler, Alisa Valdes-Rodriguez, Shannon Delany, Jeff Hertzberg, Ryan Nerz, Darryl Wimberley, and Bernie Sanders. It also publishes the \"New York Times\" crossword puzzle books.\n\nIts textbook division, Bedford-St. Martin's, was founded in 1981. In 1984, St. Martin's became the first major trade-book publisher to release its hardcover books by its in-house mass-market paperback company, St. Martin's Mass Market Paperback Co., Inc.\n\n"}
{"id": "2072416", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2072416", "title": "Bangladesh National Museum", "text": "Bangladesh National Museum\n\nThe Bangladesh National Museum (), is the national museum of Bangladesh. The museum is well organized and displays have been housed chronologically in several departments like department of ethnography and decorative art, department of history and classical art, department of natural history, and department of contemporary and world civilization. The museum also has a rich conservation laboratory. Nalini Kanta Bhattasali served as the first curator of the museum during 1914–1947.\nBangladesh National Museum was originally established on 20 March 1913, albeit under another name (the Dhaka Museum), and formally inaugurated on 7 August 1913 by Thomas Gibson-Carmichael, 1st Baron Carmichael, the governor of Bengal. In July 1915 it was handed over to the Naib-Nazim of Dhaka. Bangladesh National Museum was formed through the incorporation of Dhaka museum and it was made the national museum of Bangladesh on 17 November 1983. It is located at Shahbag, Dhaka.\n\nThe ground floor consists of some old guns at the entrance and the hall where the people book their tickets or assemble to hear the history of the museum. The hall leads to a grand staircase. Beside the hall, there is a smaller room which also acts like the hall (it is also used by the guides to tell the visitors about the history) and a simple staircase.\n\nThe 1st floor is divided into 22 rooms.\n\nThe first room displays a large map showing the map of Bangladesh and its 64 districts.\n\nThe 2nd room consists of an under going work of a large statue of a royal Bengal tiger.\n\nThese rooms consist of natural beauties found in Bangladesh. In one of the room there is showcase of a tongue of a whale.\n\nThe other rooms contain some historic relics of Bengal up to 1900. There is a room which shows the different boats used by the rural people.\n\nThe 2nd floor consists of photos of famous people and showcases the Bangladesh Liberation War and the Language Movement of 1952. There are posters used in the war, a torture machine and much more. There are also two libraries.\n\nThe 3rd floor consists of pictures of international politicians, artists, scientists, famous pictures and four international galleries - Chinese, Korean, Iranian and Swiss.\n\n"}
{"id": "2072429", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2072429", "title": "Shan", "text": "Shan\n\nShan may refer to:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2072431", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2072431", "title": "Willmore energy", "text": "Willmore energy\n\nIn differential geometry, the Willmore energy is a quantitative measure of how much a given surface deviates from a round sphere. Mathematically, the Willmore energy of a smooth closed surface embedded in three-dimensional Euclidean space is defined to be the integral of the square of the mean curvature minus the Gaussian curvature. It is named after the English geometer Thomas Willmore.\n\nExpressed symbolically, the Willmore energy of \"S\" is:\n\nwhere formula_2 is the mean curvature, formula_3 is the Gaussian curvature, and \"dA\" is the area form of \"S\". For a closed surface, by the Gauss–Bonnet theorem, the integral of the Gaussian curvature may be computed in terms of the Euler characteristic formula_4 of the surface, so\n\nwhich is a topological invariant and thus independent of the particular embedding in formula_6 that was chosen. Thus the Willmore energy can be expressed as\n\nAn alternative, but equivalent, formula is\n\nwhere formula_9 and formula_10 are the principal curvatures of the surface.\n\nThe Willmore energy is always greater than or equal to zero. A round sphere has zero Willmore energy.\n\nThe Willmore energy can be considered a functional on the space of embeddings of a given surface, in the sense of the calculus of variations, and one can vary the embedding of a surface, while leaving it topologically unaltered.\n\nA basic problem in the calculus of variations is to find the critical points and minima of a functional.\n\nFor a given topological space, this is equivalent to finding the critical points of the function\nsince the Euler characteristic is constant.\n\nOne can find (local) minima for the Willmore energy by gradient descent, which in this context is called Willmore flow.\n\nFor embeddings of the sphere in 3-space, the critical points have been classified: they are all conformal transforms of minimal surfaces, the round sphere is the minimum, and all other critical values are integers greater than or equal to 4formula_12. They are called Willmore surfaces.\n\nThe Willmore flow is the geometric flow corresponding to the Willmore energy;\nit is an formula_13-gradient flow.\n\nwhere \"H\" stands for the mean curvature of the manifold formula_15.\n\nFlow lines satisfy the differential equation:\nwhere formula_17 is a point belonging to the surface.\n\nThis flow leads to an evolution problem in differential geometry: the surface formula_15 is evolving \nin time to follow variations of steepest descent of the energy. Like surface diffusion it is a fourth-order \nflow, since the variation of the energy contains fourth derivatives.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2072435", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2072435", "title": "Hausmannite", "text": "Hausmannite\n\nHausmannite is a complex oxide of manganese containing both di- and tri-valent manganese. The formula can be represented as MnMnO. It belongs to the spinel group and forms tetragonal crystals. Hausmannite is a brown to black metallic mineral with Mohs hardness of 5.5 and a specific gravity of 4.8.\n\nThe type locality is Oehrenstock (Öhrenstock), Ilmenau, Thuringian Forest, Thuringia, Germany, where it was first described in 1813. Locations include Batesville, Arkansas, US; Ilfeld, Germany; Langban, Sweden; and the Ural Mountains, Russia. High quality samples have been found in South Africa and Namibia where it is associated with other manganese oxides, pyrolusite and psilomelane and the iron-manganese mineral bixbyite. Wilhelm Haidinger (1827) named it in honour of Johann Friedrich Ludwig Hausmann (1782–1859), Professor of Mineralogy, University of Göttingen, Germany.\n"}
{"id": "2072437", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2072437", "title": "Eriogonum inflatum", "text": "Eriogonum inflatum\n\nEriogonum inflatum, the desert trumpet, is a perennial plant of the family Polygonaceae. The plant possesses very small yellow or pink flowers and an inflated stem just below branching segments. Eriogonum: from the Greek \"erion\", \"wool\", and \"gonu\", \"joint or knee\", in reference to the hairy or woolly joints of some of the species of the genus, but not particularly \"inflatum\". It is found in the Mojave Desert and other deserts.\n\nThe swelling of the stems was assumed to have been influenced by the presence of gall insects, most notably of the genus \"Odynerus\". The female wasp produces a small hole on the inflated portion of the desert trumpet, packs the cavity with larvae and lays her eggs upon them, providing a food source, and a protected environment for the offspring. Irritation caused by this process was said to have enlarged the cavity over time. Recently, research performed by a world authority on the genus \"Eriogonum\", Dr. J. L. Reveal of the University of Maryland, College Park, revealed the swollen stem of \"Eriogonum inflatum\" is due to high concentrations of carbon dioxide in the solid stem and seems to be related to gas regulation.\n\nSome insects utilize the swollen stem as a larder, but the inflation is \"not\" caused by the larval feeding of gall insects.\n\nIt is known that some Native American tribes that once inhabited the surrounding areas of the Las Vegas Valley (most commonly Paiute) would remove the stalk of \"E. inflatum\" at the base, and then cut the inflated bulb in half, producing a makeshift pipe. A mixture of Indian tobacco and mistletoe would be smoked primarily for leisure purposes.\n\nThis plant makes a brief appearance in \"\", in Season 3, episode 1, at around the 3 minute 47 second mark, when the character \"Neelix\" is shown to be looking at a picked specimen.\n\n"}
{"id": "2072440", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2072440", "title": "Kolbotn IL", "text": "Kolbotn IL\n\nKolbotn Idrettslag is a sports club from Kolbotn, Norway. Since 1960, the club has been organized in semi-autonomous sub-sections. The club runs basketball, amateur wrestling, association football, sport gymnastics, disabled sports, handball, orienteering, competitive swimming and volleyball.\n\nCurrently (2005), these sections exist:\n\n\nOver the years, the club and its members have also been active in:\n\n\nKullebunden Idrætsklub was founded in 1915 with Normand Nilsen as its first chairman. The club later changed its name to Kolbotn Idrettsklubb (KIK). Kolbotn Arbeideridrettslag (Kolbotn AIL) was founded in 1924. In 1934 the speedskaters broke away from KIK and started Kolbotn Skøyteklubb with Wilhelm Berthelsen as chairman. In 1946 the three clubs, Kolbotn Idrettsklubb, Kolbotn Arbeideridrettslag, and Kolbotn Skøyteklubb merged and took the new name Kolbotn Idrettslag (aka Kolbotn I.L.). In 1985, Hellerasten Volleyball Klubb was included in Kolbotn I.L.\n\nIn 1925 Roald Amundsen, the famous polar explorer, was appointed honorable member of the club.\n\nThe club is probably best known for its eminent wrestlers. Kolbotn wrestlers had a very good period in the 1940s and again in the early 1980s to the mid-1990s. The most notable results were two Olympic gold medals by Jon Rønningen.\n\nKolbotn I.L. started Handball in 1940 and the Handball section had its golden years in the early 1980s as they won the National league in 1983 and 1984.\n\nKolbotn Volleyball won the National league in 1984 (as Hellerasten), and 1986. In 1992, Kolbotn Volleyball won both the National league and the National championship.\n\nKolbotn Football has had a very capable women’s team, in the last several years winning the elite Toppserien league in 2002, 2005, and 2006 and the national Cup championship in 2007. In 2009 Dan Eggen, former Norwegian international player, joined as the team's chief trainer.\n\n"}
{"id": "2072457", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2072457", "title": "Leontodon", "text": "Leontodon\n\nLeontodon is a genus of plants in the dandelion tribe within the sunflower family (Compositae), commonly known as hawkbits.\n\nTheir English name derives from the mediaeval belief that hawks ate the plant to improve their eyesight. Although originally only native to Eurasia and North Africa, some species have since become established in other countries, including the United States and New Zealand.\n\nRecent research has shown that the genus \"Leontodon\" in the traditional delimitation is polyphyletic. Therefore, the former \"Leontodon\" subgenus \"Oporinia\" was raised to generic level. According to the nomenclatural rules the name \"Scorzoneroides\" has priority at generic level and therefore, the members of \"Leontodon\" subgenus \"Oporinia\" were transferred to the re-erected genus \"Scorzoneroides\".\n\nSeeds of \"Leontodon\" species are an important food source for certain bird species.\n\nIn Crete, the species \"Leontodon tuberosus\" which is called ('), (') or (\"\") has its roots eaten raw and its leaves eaten steamed.\n\nThe genus \"Leontodon\" s.str. (i.e. excluding the members of the resurrected genus \"Scorzoneroides\") is a rich source of hypocretenolides, unique guaiane type sesquiterpene lactones with a 12,5-lactone ring instead of the usual 12,6 lactone ring.\n\nPhenolics found in \"Leontodon\" include luteolin type flavonoids and caffeoyl quinic acid derivatives such as chlorogenic acid and 3,5-dicaffeoylquinic acid. Moreover, \"Leontodon\" species contain the caffeoyl tartaric acid derivatives caffeoyl tartaric acid and cichoric acid.\n\n"}
{"id": "2072460", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2072460", "title": "Boy bishop", "text": "Boy bishop\n\nBoy bishop was a name given to a custom very widespread in the Middle Ages, whereby a boy was chosen, for example among cathedral choristers, to parody the real bishop, commonly on the feast of Holy Innocents. This custom was linked with others, such as that of the Feast of Fools and the Feast of Asses.\n\nIn England the boy bishop was elected on 6 December, the feast of Saint Nicholas, the patron of children, and his authority lasted till Holy Innocents' day (28 December). The real Bishop would, symbolically, step down at the \"deposuit potentes de sede\" of the Magnificat (\"he hath put down the mighty from their seat\"), and the boy would take his seat at \"et exaltavit humiles\" (\"and hath exalted the humble and meek\").\n\nAfter the election, the boy was dressed in full bishop's robes with mitre and crozier and, attended by comrades dressed as priests, made a circuit of the town blessing the people. Typically the chosen boy and his colleagues took possession of the cathedral and performed all the ceremonies and offices, except Mass. Originally, it seems, confined to the cathedrals, the custom spread to many parishes.\n\nNotwithstanding the intervention of various Church authorities (see Feast of Fools), the popularity of the custom made it resilient. In England it was abolished by Henry VIII in 1542, revived by Mary I in 1552 and finally abolished by Elizabeth I. On the continent of Europe it survived longest in Germany, in the so-called , said to have been founded by Gregory IV. The custom has given rise to some popular misconceptions, however, one of which is the traditional misidentification of a miniature episcopal tomb effigy at Salisbury as a boy bishop: this is more likely to commemorate a secondary burial (heart or viscera) of a real bishop.\n\nThere have been some recent revivals both in the English-speaking world and on the continent. Most famous perhaps is that of Hereford, revived in 1973 for a special children's service, with full and traditional ceremonies following annually since 1982. The Boy Bishop preaches a sermon and leads prayers at various Diocesan Advent services. A single revival took place in 1959 at St. George's Parish Church, Stockport. Such ceremonies are now also found at Westminster Cathedral, Salisbury Cathedral, and a number of parish churches throughout England, including All Saints' Church, Northampton, Claines, Worcestershire, and also St Christopher's Parish Church, Bournemouth, (early 1950s), where the Boy Bishop was installed on St Christopher's Day, (July 25), and 'reigned' for one year, preaching and 'presiding' at youth events. The market town of Alcester, Warwickshire has its very own St Nicholas night complete with the Boy Bishop on 6 December each year. \n\nThe custom was likewise revived in Burgos, Spain, where the boy-bishop feast had been extremely popular before the cathedral choir was closed in the 1930s. After its re-establishment, the boy bishop was revived in 1987, and has since been celebrated every year. Other Spanish cities such as Palencia also hold the ceremony, and that carried on in the Monastery of Montserrat by L'Escolania is especially renowned. The festival was also revived in Chavagnes International College, a Catholic boarding school in France.\n\nIn the United States, one of the first adoptions of the custom took place in 1979 at the Cathedral of All Saints (Episcopal) in Albany, New York, as part of an annual medieval fair held in the great Gothic-revival style church.\n\nIn December 2009, a teenage girl from Wellingborough England was appointed Britain's first girl bishop at All Saints Church in the town.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2072461", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2072461", "title": "NLZ", "text": "NLZ\n\nNLZ can refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2072466", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2072466", "title": "Barton MacLane", "text": "Barton MacLane\n\nBarton MacLane (December 25, 1902 – January 1, 1969) was an American actor, playwright, and screenwriter. Although he appeared in many classic films from the 1930s through the 1960s, he became \nbest-known for his role as General Martin Peterson on the 1960s NBC television comedy series \"I Dream of Jeannie\", with Barbara Eden and Larry Hagman.\n\nMacLane was born in Columbia, South Carolina, on Christmas Day, 1902. He attended Wesleyan University in Middletown, Connecticut, where he excelled at American football. His first movie role, in \"The Quarterback\" (1926), was a result of his athletic ability. He then attended the American Academy of Dramatic Arts.\n\nHe made his Broadway debut in 1927, playing the assistant district attorney in Bayard Veiller's \"The Trial of Mary Dugan\". He then performed in the 1928 Broadway production of \"Gods of the Lightning\" and was part of the original cast of \"Subway Express\" as Officer Mulvaney in 1929. He appeared in the Marx Brothers' 1929 film debut \"The Cocoanuts\". MacLane made his first credited film appearance in the 1931 romantic drama \"His Woman\". The following year, he wrote the play \"Rendezvous\", which he sold to Arthur Hopkins. The play was performed on Broadway, with MacLane in a featured role.\n\nThe success of \"Rendezvous\" landed MacLane a contract with Warner Bros. and brought him to the attention of several renowned film directors, including Fritz Lang, Michael Curtiz, and William Keighley. As a result, throughout the remainder of the 1930s, MacLane was highly active in film, with major supporting roles in such productions as \"The Case of the Curious Bride\", \"G Men\", \"The Prince and the Pauper\", and Lang's \"You Only Live Once\" and \"You and Me\". He also played the role of detective Steve McBride, opposite Glenda Farrell in seven of the nine films featuring the fictional newspaper reporter Torchy Blane.\n\nDuring the 1930s and 1940s, MacLane worked alongside Humphrey Bogart in several films. He played Lieutenant Dundy opposite Bogart's Sam Spade in \"The Maltese Falcon\", writer/director John Huston's acclaimed film noir based upon Dashiell Hammett's novel. MacLane again collaborated with both Bogart and Huston on the Academy Award-winning 1948 adventure film \"The Treasure of the Sierra Madre\".\n\nMacLane's many other film credits during the 1940s include \"The Big Street\", Victor Fleming's \"Dr. Jekyll and Mr Hyde\", Fritz Lang's \"Western Union\", Reginald Le Borg's \"The Mummy's Ghost\", and Frank Borzage's \"The Spanish Main\". He also appeared in two \"Tarzan\" films starring Johnny Weissmuller, \"Tarzan and the Amazons\" and \"Tarzan and the Huntress\". Some of MacLane's films during the 1950s include \"Kiss Tomorrow Goodbye\", \"The Glenn Miller Story\", and \"Three Violent People\". In 1955 MacLane appeared as Jim Mablett in the movie \"Foxfire\" co-starring \"Jane Russell\".\n\nAs he was the regular heavy and bad guy, juveniles started using the term \"Don't give me that Barton MacLane\", if they felt justly or unjustly being turned off by adults or authorities, e.g. cops, teachers and so on.\n\nIn the 1950s, MacLane began to appear regularly on television. Between 1953 and 1967, he guest starred on such programs as \"Conflict\", \"Lux Video Theatre\", \"Westinghouse Desilu Playhouse\", \"Laramie\", \"The Monkees\", and \"Gunsmoke\". In 1958 he played Sen. Harriman Baylor in the \"Perry Mason\" episode, \"The Case of the Foot-Loose Doll\". In 1960 he played Eugene Norris, Perry's friend and small-town sheriff, in \"The Case of the Violent Village\". In 1964 he played Archer Osmond in \"The Case of the Ruinous Road\".\n\nDuring the 1960-1961 television season, MacLane was a series regular on twenty-seven episodes of NBC's western, \"Outlaws\", in which he played Marshal Frank Caine. His last feature film was \"Buckskin\" (1968).\n\nIn 1965, MacLane was cast in the recurring role of General Martin Peterson on \"I Dream of Jeannie\". He appeared in 35 episodes of the series between 1965 and 1969. Three of MacLane's episodes were aired after his death in January 1969. His character was replaced on later episodes of the series by General Winfield Schaeffer, portrayed by Vinton Hayworth, until his death in 1970. Coincidentally, Hayworth also died before all episodes featuring his character were broadcast.\n\nMaclane played several musical instruments, including the violin, piano, and guitar. In 1939, MacLane married actress Charlotte Wynters. From the 1940s until his death, he maintained a cattle ranch in eastern Madera County, California, where he made his home when he was not acting. He adopted a daughter.\n\nMacLane died of double pneumonia at age 66 on New Year's Day, 1969, at Saint John's Health Center in Santa Monica, California. He had been admitted two weeks prior to his death.\n\nMacLane was buried in Valhalla Memorial Park Cemetery.\n\nFor his contribution to the television industry, MacLane has a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame at 6719 Hollywood Boulevard.\n\n"}
{"id": "2072467", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2072467", "title": "Forlì", "text": "Forlì\n\nForlì ( , ; ; ) is a \"comune\" (municipality) and city in Emilia-Romagna, Northern Italy, and is the capital of the province of Forlì-Cesena. It is the central city of Romagna.\n\nThe city is situated along the Via Emilia, to the right of the Montone river, and is an important agricultural centre. The city hosts some of Italy's culturally and artistically significant landmarks; it is also notable as the birthplace of painters Melozzo da Forlì and Marco Palmezzano, humanist historian Flavio Biondo, physicians Geronimo Mercuriali and Giovanni Battista Morgagni. The University Campus of Forlì (part of the University of Bologna) is specialized in Economics, Engineering, Political Sciences as well as the Advanced school of Modern Languages for Interpreters and Translators (SSLMIT).\n\nThe climate of the area is humid subtropical (\"Cfa\" in the Köppen climate classification) with Mediterranean features, fairly mitigated by the relative closeness of the city to the sea.\n\nForlì is characterized by hot and sunny summers, with temperatures that can exceed and even reach during the hottest weeks of the year.\n\nWinters are cool and moist, with frequent fog. Occasionally the warm Sirocco wind blows from the south, bringing warmer temperatures for brief periods.\n\nThe surroundings of Forlì have been inhabited since the Paleolithic: a site, Ca' Belvedere of Monte Poggiolo, has revealed thousands of chipped flints in strata dated 800,000 years before the present era, which indicates a flint-knapping industry producing sharp-edged tools in a pre-Acheulean phase of the Paleolithic.\n\nForlì was founded after the Roman conquest of the remaining Gallic villages, about the time the Via Aemilia was built. With no clear evidence, the exact date this occurred is still under debate, though some historians believe that the first settlement of the ancient Roman Forum was built in approximately 188 BC by consul Gaius Livius Salinator (the same that fought Hasdrubal Barca and vanquished him at the banks of the Metaurus River in 207 BC), who gave it the Latin name \"Forum Livii\", meaning \"the place of the gens Livia\". Others argue the town may have been founded later, during the time of Julius Caesar. In 88 BC, the city was destroyed during the civil wars of Gaius Marius and Sulla, but later rebuilt by the praetor Livius Clodius.\n\nAfter the collapse of the Western Roman Empire, the city was incorporated into the realms of Odoacer and of the Ostrogothic Kingdom. From the end of the 6th century to 751, Forlì was an outlying part of the Byzantine power in Italy known as the Exarchate of Ravenna. During this time the Germanic Lombards repeatedly took the city – in 665, 728, and 742. It was finally incorporated with the Papal States in 757, as part of the Donation of Pepin.\n\nBy the 9th century the commune had taken control from its bishops, and Forlì was established as an independent Italian city-state, alongside the other communes that signalled the first revival of urban life in Italy. Forlì became a republic for the first time in 889. At this time the city was allied with the Ghibelline factions in the medieval struggles between the Guelphs and Ghibellines, partly as a means of preserving its independence – and the city supported all the Holy Roman Emperors in their campaigns in Italy.\n\nLocal competition was involved in the loyalties: in 1241, during Frederick II's struggles with Pope Gregory IX the people of Forlì offered their support to Frederick II during the capture of the rival city, Faenza, and in gratitude, they were granted an addition to their coat-of-arms -the Hohenstaufen eagle.\n\nWith the collapse of Hohenstaufen power in 1257, imperial lieutenant Guido I da Montefeltro was forced to take refuge in Forlì, the only remaining Ghibelline stronghold in Italy. He accepted the position of \"capitano del popolo\" (\"Captain of the People\") and led Forlì to notable victories: against the Bolognesi at the Ponte di San Proculo, on 15 June 1275; against a Guelph allied force, including Florentine troops, at Civitella on 14 November 1276; and at Forlì itself against a powerful French contingent sent by Pope Martin IV, on 15 May 1282, in a battle cited by Dante Alighieri (who was hosted in the city in 1303 by Scarpetta Ordelaffi), \"Inferno\" 27. In 1282, Forlì's forces were led by Guido da Montefeltro, while the French were under Jean d'Eppe. The astrologer Guido Bonatti (advisor of Emperor Frederick II) was one of his advisors.\n\nThe following year the city's exhausted Senate was forced to cede to papal power and asked Guido to take his leave. The commune soon submitted to a local \"condottiere\" rather than accept a representative of direct papal control, and Simone Mestaguerra had himself proclaimed \"Lord of Forlì\". He did not succeed in leaving the new signory peacefully to an heir, however, and Forlì passed to Maghinardo Pagano, then to Uguccione della Faggiuola (1297), and to others, until in 1302 the Ordelaffi came into power.\n\nLocal factions with papal support ousted the family in 1327–29 and again in 1359–75, and at other turns of events the bishops were expelled by the Ordelaffi. Until the Renaissance the Ordelaffi strived to maintain the possession of the city and its countryside, especially against Papal attempts to assert back their authority. Often civil wars between members of the family occurred. They also fought as condottieri for other states to earn themselves money to protect or embellish Forlì.\nThe most renowned of the Ordelaffi was Pino III, who held the Signiory of Forlì from 1466 to 1480. Pino was a ruthless lord; nevertheless he enriched the city with new walls and buildings and was a sponsor of the arts. When he died aged 40, under suspicion of poisoning, the situation of Forlì was weakened as factions of Ordelaffi fought one another, until Pope Sixtus IV claimed the signory for his nephew Girolamo Riario. Riario was married to Caterina Sforza, the indomitable \"Lady of Forlì\" whose name is associated with the city's last independent history. Forlì was seized in 1488 by the Visconti and in 1499 by Cesare Borgia, after whose death it became more directly subject to the pope than ever before (apart from a short-lived return of the Ordelaffi in 1503–1504).\nIn June 1796, during the French Revolution, Jacobin French troops entered the city — with Napoleon arriving on 4 February 1797. The French General recruited local officials and soldiers, resulting in political turmoil between 1820 and 1830, with risings in 1821 —including the revolutionary movement of the Carbonari in 1831 and 1848. Napoléon Louis Bonaparte, Napoleon I's nephew who was involved with the Carbonari, died there in 1831.\n\nIn the 19th century, Forlì was part of the Italian unification (or \"the Risorgimento\"), a political and social movement that agglomerated the different states of the Italian Peninsula into the single state of Italy. The citizens of Forlì were particularly inspired by military figure Giuseppe Garibaldi, who at this time was a commander. However, the city and its farmers had difficulty adapting to agrarian reform under the unification, thus lending rise to republican and socialist parties.\n\nForlì participated considerably during World War I, resulting in it being awarded the \"\" gold medal. Afterwards in the 1920s, Benito Mussolini became actively involved in the local politics, before becoming dictator of Italy — a situation that remained for 20 years before the start of World War II. The war left the city with destroyed monuments and artistic losses, such as the , which included frescoes by Melozzo da Forlì. After the war, however, the city experienced a quick economic recovery, entering a new stage of democratic life.\n\nForlì is a prosperous agricultural and industrial centre, with manufacture primarily focused on silk, rayon, clothing, machinery, metals, and household appliances. In the city also has seat the Ferretti Group, one of the most famous producers of yachtes.\n\nForlì is the location of various buildings of architectural, artistic and historical significance, that include frescoes as part of their decorations. At the heart of the city sits the Piazza Aurelio Saffi, which includes a statue of Italian politician Aurelio Saffi – who was an important figure in the radical republican current within the Risorgimento movement, headed by Giuseppe Mazzini in the 19th century. The Piazza Saffi also includes the Abbey of San Mercuriale (named after Saint Mercurialis, a bishop of the city who died in the 5th century), which is the main religious building in the city; and contains the famed Sepulchre of Barbara Manfredi. Also of note is the Dominican Church of San Giacomo Apostolo; better known as the Church of San Domenico – a late medieval church built in the 13th century in the southern part of the town.\n\nOther medieval buildings include the Rocca di Ravaldino, a fortress enlarged in the 14th century by the Ordelaffi and Gil de Albornoz, and later in the 15th century.\n\nThe city hosts the Palazzo Hercolani, with decorations dating from the 19th century; containing the artwork \"La Beata Vergine del Fuoco con i Santi Mercuriale, Pellegrino, Marcolino e Valeriano\" by Italian painter . The is a civic building which was frescoed by Adolfo de Carolis in the 20th century.\n\nForlì has parks located in \"green\" areas, including the Parco della Resistenza (\"Resistance Park\") city park, and the Parco di Via Dragoni – which provides performance facilities alongside standard amenities. The Teatro Diego Fabbri is a theatre which opened in September 2000.\n\nThe most well-known painter of the \"comune\" was Melozzo da Forlì, who worked in Rome and other Italian cities during the brief years of the High Renaissance. Other Forlivese painters were: Ansuino da Forlì, Marco Palmezzano, Francesco Menzocchi, and Livio Agresti. Together, they formed the Forlì painting school. Carlo Cignani was not born in Forlì (but near Forlì), but painted important works there.\n\nOther notable Forlivese people are:\n\nForlì is divided into territorial subdivisions, or \"Frazione\".\n\nVillafranca di Forlì is a hamlet which a dependency of the municipality of Forlì, located on the north side of the main town, and spans over a territory sided on the west side by the River Montone. The hamlet was the birthplace of Benito Mussolini's mother, Rosa.\n\nAn aerodrome, with a runway approximately long and wide, is close to the hamlet; it is used as a landing field for ULM and R/C model aircraft. It is the seat of the Flight School \"Ali Soccorso\" belonging to the Civil Defence.\n\nThis recreational aerodrome is complementary to Forlì's main airport, south of the city.\n\nForlì railway station is on the Bologna–Ancona line. Opened for use in 1926, it replaced the original station, which had been in use since 1861. The passenger building of the original station still stands, about west of the present station.\n\nForlì Airport was closed on 29 March 2013 due to bankruptcy of the company that ran it. The nearest airports operated by commercial airlines are currently Federico Fellini International Airport near Rimini and Bologna Guglielmo Marconi Airport near Bologna.\n\nForlì is twinned with:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2072472", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2072472", "title": "Principal curvature", "text": "Principal curvature\n\nIn differential geometry, the two principal curvatures at a given point of a surface are the eigenvalues of the shape operator at the point. They measure how the surface bends by different amounts in different directions at that point.\n\nAt each point \"p\" of a differentiable surface in 3-dimensional Euclidean space one may choose a unit normal vector. A normal plane at \"p\" is one that contains the normal vector, and will therefore also contain a unique direction tangent to the surface and cut the surface in a plane curve, called normal section. This curve will in general have different curvatures for different normal planes at \"p\". The principal curvatures at \"p\", denoted \"k\" and \"k\", are the maximum and minimum values of this curvature.\n\nHere the curvature of a curve is by definition the reciprocal of the radius of the osculating circle. The curvature is taken to be positive if the curve turns in the same direction as the surface's chosen normal, and otherwise negative. The directions in the normal plane where the curvature takes its maximum and minimum values are always perpendicular, if \"k\" does not equal \"k\", a result of Euler (1760), and are called principal directions. From a modern perspective, this theorem follows from the spectral theorem because these directions are as the principal axes of a symmetric tensor—the second fundamental form. A systematic analysis of the principal curvatures and principal directions was undertaken by Gaston Darboux, using Darboux frames.\n\nThe product \"k\"\"k\" of the two principal curvatures is the Gaussian curvature, \"K\", and the average (\"k\" + \"k\")/2 is the mean curvature, \"H\".\n\nIf at least one of the principal curvatures is zero at every point, then the Gaussian curvature will be 0 and the surface is a developable surface. For a minimal surface, the mean curvature is zero at every point.\n\nLet \"M\" be a surface in Euclidean space with second fundamental form formula_1. Fix a point \"p\"∈\"M\", and an orthonormal basis \"X\", \"X\" of tangent vectors at \"p\". Then the principal curvatures are the eigenvalues of the symmetric matrix\n\nIf \"X\" and \"X\" are selected so that the matrix formula_3 is a diagonal matrix, then they are called the principal directions. If the surface is oriented, then one often requires that the pair (\"X\", \"X\") be positively oriented with respect to the given orientation.\n\nWithout reference to a particular orthonormal basis, the principal curvatures are the eigenvalues of the shape operator, and the principal directions are its eigenvectors.\n\nFor hypersurfaces in higher-dimensional Euclidean spaces, the principal curvatures may be defined in a directly analogous fashion. The principal curvatures are the eigenvalues of the matrix of the second fundamental form formula_4 in an orthonormal basis of the tangent space. The principal directions are the corresponding eigenvectors.\n\nSimilarly, if \"M\" is a hypersurface in a Riemannian manifold \"N\", then the principal curvatures are the eigenvalues of its second-fundamental form. If \"k\", ..., \"k\" are the \"n\" principal curvatures at a point \"p\" ∈ \"M\" and \"X\", ..., \"X\" are corresponding orthonormal eigenvectors (principal directions), then the sectional curvature of \"M\" at \"p\" is given by\nfor all formula_6 with formula_7.\n\n\nThe lines of curvature or curvature lines are curves which are always tangent to a principal direction (they are integral curves for the principal direction fields). There will be two lines of curvature through each non-umbilic point and the lines will cross at right angles.\n\nIn the vicinity of an umbilic the lines of curvature typically form one of three configurations star, lemon and monstar (derived from \"lemon-star\"). These points are also called Darbouxian Umbilics, in honor of \nGaston Darboux, the first to make a systematic study in Vol. 4, p 455, of his Leçons (1896).\n\nIn these figures, the red curves are the lines of curvature for one family of principal directions, and the blue curves for the other.\n\nWhen a line of curvature has a local extremum of the same principal curvature then the curve has a ridge point. These ridge points form curves on the surface called ridges. The ridge curves pass through the umbilics. For the star pattern either 3 or 1 ridge line pass through the umbilic, for the monstar and lemon only one ridge passes through.\n\nPrincipal curvature directions along with the surface normal, define a 3D orientation frame at a surface point. For example, in case of a cylindrical surface, by physically touching or visually observing, we know that along one specific direction the surface is flat (parallel to the axis of the cylinder) and hence take note of the orientation of the surface. The implication of such an orientation frame at each surface point means any rotation of the surfaces over time can be determined simply by considering the change in the corresponding orientation frames. This has resulted in single surface point motion estimation and segmentation algorithms in computer vision.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2072504", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2072504", "title": "Schongau, Lucerne", "text": "Schongau, Lucerne\n\nSchongau is a municipality in the district of Hochdorf in the canton of Lucerne in Switzerland.\n\nSchongau is located in the Seetal valley.\n\nThe municipality has an area of . Of this area, 70.4% is used for agricultural purposes, while 26.1% is forested. Of the rest of the land, 3.5% is settled (buildings or roads) and the remainder (0.1%) is non-productive (rivers, glaciers or mountains). , 26.08% of the total land area was forested. Of the agricultural land, 65.41% is used for farming or pastures, while 4.98% is used for orchards or vine crops. Of the settled areas, 2.01% is covered with buildings, 0.08% is industrial, 0.32% is parks or greenbelts and 1.04% is transportation infrastructure. All the unproductive areas are unproductive flowing water (rivers).\n\nSchongau has a population () of 848, of which 3.1% are foreign nationals. Over the last 10 years the population has grown at a rate of 13.1%. Most of the population () speaks German (97.3%), with Albanian being second most common ( 1.1%) and Serbo-Croatian being third ( 0.5%).\n\nIn the 2007 election the most popular party was the SVP which received 38% of the vote. The next three most popular parties were the CVP (33.9%), the FDP (17.6%) and the Green Party (5.6%).\n\nThe age distribution in Schongau is; 253 people or 29.7% of the population is 0–19 years old. 199 people or 23.4% are 20–39 years old, and 285 people or 33.5% are 40–64 years old. The senior population distribution is 86 people or 10.1% are 65–79 years old, 28 or 3.3% are 80–89 years old and 1 people or 0.1% of the population are 90+ years old. \n\nIn Schongau about 64.8% of the population (between age 25-64) have completed either non-mandatory upper secondary education or additional higher education (either university or a \"Fachhochschule\"). \n\nSchongau has an unemployment rate of 0.77%. , there were 170 people employed in the primary economic sector and about 66 businesses involved in this sector. 110 people are employed in the secondary sector and there are 10 businesses in this sector. 63 people are employed in the tertiary sector, with 20 businesses in this sector. 49.9% of the population of the municipality were employed in some capacity. At the same time, females made up 37.1% of the workforce.\n\n"}
{"id": "2072506", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2072506", "title": "Schongau, Bavaria", "text": "Schongau, Bavaria\n\nSchongau is a town in Bavaria, near the Alps. It is located along the Lech, between Landsberg am Lech and Füssen. It has about 12,000 inhabitants. Schongau has a well-preserved old wall around the center.\n\nThe origin of Schongau is the current Altenstadt (lit.: old town). A large number of the inhabitants moved only a few kilometres into a new settlement founded on the Lech and took the name Schongau with them in the 13th century. The hillside was far better situated to defend it. The town of Schongau is located very close to the former Roman road to Augsburg, Via Claudia Augusta (47 AD) and has its name from the Romans. In the Middle Ages, it was an important hub and an commercial centre on route Verona-Augsburg-Nuremberg and at salt road from Berchtesgadener Land into the Allgäu.\nLechrain, populated by the Alemanni, was under the rule of the Swabian Welfs until the 12 century. After the death of Welf VI in 1191, the Welf territories in Swabia changed in to the hands to the Hohenstaufen. Emperor Frederick Barbarossa gave it to the Hohenstaufen. When the last Staufer ruler Conradin had moved to Italy in 1267 to defend his power against Charles of Anjou, his ally Duke Ludwig II of Bavaria unexpectedly denied his help and demanded the payment of debts, which is why Konradin had to give away a large part of his possessions as the Duke of Swabia (called the Konradinian donation). In this way, the Bavarian dukes of Wittelsbach, who were ambitious to extend their influence into the Alamannian settlements up to Lech and came to rule the Lechrain in 1268.\nEmperor Ludwig the Bavarian had given Schongau the right to mint in 1331. Duke Christoph der Starke liked to stay in the city. Christophstrasse is named after him in the historic centre of the town. On 22 May 1493, a devastating fire destroyed large parts of the Oberstadt (upper town) and the ducal palace; it was not until 1514 that reconstruction was completed. Schongau was involved several times in martial conflicts and was often a transit camp of friendly and hostile troops.\n\nThrough trade and the diligence of its citizens, Schongau experienced a period of prosperity until the time of the discovery of America, which resulted in relocation of the great trade routes. As a result, the city became so poor that significant buildings such as the castle and the balehouse were partially decayed or demolished. After the Second World War, the city and the surrounding area gained a considerable number of residents due to refugees and developed into a district with relatively low unemployment due to the prosperous middle class.\n\nThe city had the first railroad connection with the railway line Landsberg am Lech to Schongau on 16 November 1886. The railway connection in the direction of Weilheim was opened on January 12, 1917, by the section from Peissenberg to Schongau on the railway line Weilheim-Schongau. The railway line Kaufbeuren-Schongau existed from 1923 to 1977, it was built because of mining in Peiting.\n\nSchongau used to be a county of the same name. Due to the Bavarian district reform in 1972, it merged with the Weilheim district into today's Weilheim-Schongau county. In the town are still some institutions from the county authority, and the name Altlandkreis Schongau (lit.: old county Schongau) is still occasionally used.\n\nSchongau and the nearby area is the setting of the Oliver Pötzsch novel \"The Hangman's Daughter\".\n\n\nSince May 1, 2014, the mayor of Schongau is Falk Sluyterman van Langeweyde (SPD). He was elected in March 2014 with 50,3% of the votes.\n\nHis predecessor was Karl-Heinz Gerbl (SPD); he was in office from 2008–2014.\n\n"}
{"id": "2072509", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2072509", "title": "Qusayr 'Amra", "text": "Qusayr 'Amra\n\nQusayr 'Amra or Quseir Amra, \"lit.\" \"small qasr of 'Amra\", sometimes also named Qasr Amra ( / ALA-LC: \"Qaṣr ‘Amrah\"), is the best-known of the desert castles located in present-day eastern Jordan. It was built some time between 723 and 743, by Walid Ibn Yazid, the future Umayyad caliph Walid II, whose dominance of the region was rising at the time. It is considered one of the most important examples of early Islamic art and architecture.\n\nThe building is actually the remnant of a larger complex that included an actual castle, meant as a royal retreat, without any military function, of which only the foundation remains. What stands today is a small country cabin. It is most notable for the frescoes that remain mainly on the ceilings inside, which depict, among others, a group of rulers, hunting scenes, dancing scenes containing naked women, working craftsmen, the recently discovered \"cycle of Jonah\", and, above one bath chamber, the first known representation of heaven on a hemispherical surface, where the mirror-image of the constellations is accompanied by the figures of the zodiac. This has led to the designation of Qusayr 'Amra as a UNESCO World Heritage Site.\n\nThat status, and its location along Jordan's major east–west highway, relatively close to Amman, have made it a frequent tourist destination.\n\nQasr Amra is on the north side of Jordan's Highway 40, roughly from Amman and southwest of Al-Azraq.\n\nIt is currently within a large area fenced off in barbed wire. An unpaved parking lot is located at the southeast corner, just off the road. A small visitor's center collects admission fees. The castle is located in the west of the enclosed area, below a small rise.\nTraces of stone walls used to enclose the site suggest it was part of a complex; there are remains of a castle which could have temporarily housed a garrison of soldiers.\n\nJust to the southeast of the building is a well deep, and traces of the animal-driven lifting mechanism and a dam have been found as well.\n\nThe architecture of the reception-hall-cum-bathhouse is identical to that of Hammam al-Sarah, also in Jordan, except the latter was erected using finely-cut limestone ashlars (based on the Late Roman architectural tradition), while Amra's bath was erected using rough masonry held together by gypsum-lime mortar (based on the Sasanian architectural tradition).\n\nIt is a low building made from limestone and basalt. The northern block, two stories high, features a triple-vaulted ceiling over the main entrance on the east facade. The western wings feature smaller vaults or domes.\n\nToday, Qasr Amra is in a poorer condition than the other desert castles such as Qasr Kharana, with graffiti damaging some frescoes. However, conservation work is underway supported by World Monuments Fund, the Istituto Superiore per la Conservazione ed il Restauro, and Jordan's Department of Antiquities.\n\nOne of the six kings depicted is King Roderick of Spain, whose short reign (710-712) was taken to indicate the date of the image, and possibly the building, to around 710. Therefore, for a long time researchers believed that sitting caliph Walid I was the builder and primary user of Qasr Amra, until doubts arose, making specialists believe that one of two princes who later became caliph themselves, Walid or Yazid, were the more likely candidates for that role. The discovery of an inscription during work in 2012 has indeed allowed to date the structure to the two decades between 723 and 743, when it was commissioned by Walid Ibn Yazid, crown prince under caliph Hisham and his successor for a short reign as caliph in 743-744.\n\nBoth princes spent long periods of time away from Damascus, the Umayyad seat, before assuming the throne. Walid was known to indulge in the sort of sybaritic activities depicted on the frescoes, particularly sitting on the edge of pools listening to music or poetry. One time he was entertained by performers dressed as stars and constellations, suggesting a connection to the sky painting in the caldarium. Yazid's mother was a Persian princess, suggesting a familiarity with that culture, and he too was known for similar pleasure-seeking.\n\nKey considerations in placement of the desert castles centered on access and proximity to the ancient routes running north from Arabia to Syria. A major route ran from the Arabian city of Tayma via Wadi Sirhan toward the plain of Balqa in Jordan and accounts for the location of Qusayr Amra and other similar fortifications such as Qasr Al-Kharanah and Qasr al-tuba. \n\nThe abandoned structure was re-discovered by Alois Musil in 1898, with the frescoes made famous in drawings by the Austrian artist Alphons Leopold Mielich for Musil's book. In the late 1970s a Spanish team restored the frescoes. The castle was made a UNESCO World Heritage Site in 1985 under criteria i), iii), and iv) (\"masterpiece of human creative genius\", \"unique or at least exceptional testimony to a cultural tradition\" and \"an outstanding example of a type of building, architectural or technological ensemble or landscape which illustrates a significant stage in human history\").\n\nQasr Amra is most notable for the frescoes on the inside walls.\n\nFresco of Caliph Al Walid II\n\nThe main entry vault has scenes of hunting, fruit and wine consumption, and naked women. Some of the animals shown are not abundant in the region but were more commonly found in Persia, suggesting some influence from that area. One surface depicts the construction of the building. Near the base of one wall a haloed king is shown on a throne. An adjoining section, now in Berlin's Pergamon Museum, shows attendants as well as a boat in waters abundant with fish and fowl.\n\nAn image known as the \"six kings\" depicts the Umayyad caliph and the rulers of realms near and far. Based on details and inscriptions in the image, four of the depicted kings are identified as the Byzantine Emperor, the Visigothic king Roderic, the Sassanid Persian Shah, and the Negus of Ethiopia. The last one was for a long time unidentified, speculated to be the Turkish, Chinese, or Indian ruler, and now known to represent the emperor of China. Its intent was unclear. The Greek word ΝΙΚΗ \"nike\", meaning victory, were discovered nearby, suggesting that the \"six kings\" image was meant to suggest the caliph's supremacy over his enemies. Another possible interpretation is that the six figures are depicted in supplication, presumably towards the Caliph who would be seated in the hall.\n\nThe frescoes in all rooms but the \"caldarium\" reflect the advice of contemporary Arab physicians. They believed that baths drained the spirits of the bathers, and that to revive \"the three vital principles in the body, the animal, the spiritual and the natural,\" the bath's walls should be covered with pictures of activities like hunting, of lovers, and of gardens and palm trees.\n\nThe \"apodyterium\", or changing room, is decorated with scenes of animals engaging in human activities, particularly performing music. One ambiguous image has an angel gazing down on a shrouded human form. It has often been thought to be a death scene, but some other interpretations have suggested the shroud covers a pair of lovers. Three blackened faces on the ceiling have been thought to represent the stages of life. Christians in the area believe the middle figure is Jesus Christ.\n\nOn the walls and ceiling of the \"tepidarium\", or warm bath, are scenes of plants and trees similar to those in the mosaic at the Umayyad Mosque in Damascus. They are interspersed with naked females in various poses, some bathing a child.\n\nThe \"caldarium\" or hot bath's hemispheric dome has a representation of the heavens in which the zodiac is depicted, among 35 separate identifiable constellations. It is believed to be the earliest image of the night sky painted on anything other than a flat surface. The radii emerge not from the dome's center but, accurately, from the north celestial pole. The angle of the zodiac is depicted accurately as well. The only error discernible in the surviving artwork is the counterclockwise order of the stars, which suggests the image was copied from one on a flat surface.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2072525", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2072525", "title": "Pump Boys and Dinettes", "text": "Pump Boys and Dinettes\n\nPump Boys and Dinettes is a musical written by a performance group of the same name. The group, Pump Boys and Dinettes, consists of John Foley, Mark Hardwick, Debra Monk, Cass Morgan, John Schimmel and Jim Wann. The members additionally directed and starred in the Broadway production.\n\nThe musical was created by two friends who worked at The Cattleman restaurant in New York City, dramatizing their experiences there. It started as a two-man act, and then expanded. As Jim Wann, the show's principal author and composer recalled in 2010,\nThe musical premiered on Broadway on February 4, 1982 at the Princess Theatre and closed on June 18, 1983, after 573 performances. The cast featured Debra Monk, Cass Morgan, John Foley, Mark Hardwick and John Schimmel. It had premiered at the Chelsea West Side Arts Theatre in 1981, moving to the Colonnades Theatre (Greenwich Village) in October 1981.\n\nThe show played in London's West End at the Piccadilly Theatre from September 20, 1984 to June 8, 1985 and transferred to the Albery Theatre from June 11, 1985 to September 2, 1985. The production starred, amongst others, Paul Jones, Clodagh Rodgers, Joe Brown, Brian Protheroe, Carlene Carter and Kiki Dee.\n\nThe show played for many years in Chicago at the Apollo Theatre on Lincoln Avenue.\n\nA 1983 touring version of the show featured former pop star Nicolette Larson. Larson's performance in the show was well-received, and it began a brief foray into country music for her.\n\nIn July 16-19 2014, the show was revived for five performances at New York City Center as part of the \"Encores! Off-Center\" program. The cast featured Hunter Foster, Mamie Parris, Randy Redd, Katie Thompson and Jordan Dean.\n\nOn July 22, 2018 the original cast (save Mark Hardwick, who died in 1991) performed two full-score concert versions of the show at Feinstein's/54 Below in Manhattan. \n\nThe musical tells the story of four men (L.M., Jackson, Jim and Eddie) who work at a gas station and two waitresses (sisters Prudie and Rhetta Cupp) at the \"Double Cupp Diner,\" a dinette, located somewhere between Frog Level and Smyrna, North Carolina. The music is mostly from the country rock/pop music genres. They perform on guitars, piano, bass and kitchen utensils.\n\nThe original cast album was released by CBS Records in the U.S. Its recording of \"The Night Dolly Parton Was Almost Mine\" reached number 67 on the Hot Country Songs charts.\n\n\"Pump Boys and Dinettes On Television\" was a pilot episode for a series adaptation of the show featuring the Broadway cast and appearances by Ron Carey and Tanya Tucker. It aired on NBC on August 15, 1983, but a series was never ordered.\n\"Lyrics and music by Jim Wann (unless otherwise noted)\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2072528", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2072528", "title": "Benjamin Rumsey", "text": "Benjamin Rumsey\n\nBenjamin Rumsey (October 6, 1734 – March 7, 1808) was an American jurist from Joppa, Maryland. He served as a delegate for Maryland in the Continental Congress in 1776 and 1777. He served for over twenty-five years, beginning in 1778 until his retirement in 1806 as the first the chief judge of the Maryland Court of Appeals. His record of longevity still stands today. \n\nBenjamin Rumsey was born at Bohemia Manor in Cecil County Province of Maryland. After attending Princeton, he read law and was admitted to the bar. He settled in Joppa about 1768 and lived there the rest of his life.\n\nRumsey was first elected to Maryland's lower house in 1771 as a member for Cecil County. After Harford County was formed in 1773, he represented it. He also represented the county in the Maryland conventions held between 1774 and 1776. Maryland sent him as a delegate to the Continental Congress in 1776 and 1777.\n\nWhen a new state superior court (the Maryland Court of Appeals) was created in 1778, Benjamin Rumsey was appointed as its first chief justice. He held that post until his retirement in 1806. He died at home in Joppa in 1808 and is buried in the Old St. John's Church Cemetery there.\n"}
{"id": "2072536", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2072536", "title": "Anthony Greaves", "text": "Anthony Greaves\n\nAnthony Greaves is the name of:\n\n"}
{"id": "2072539", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2072539", "title": "Robert Picht", "text": "Robert Picht\n\nRobert Picht (27 September 1937 in Berlin; 24 September 2008 in Hinterzarten) was a German academic. \n\nSon of Professor Georg Picht and his wife Edith Axenfeld, Robert Picht studied sociology and Romance studies at the universities of Munich, Frankfurt am Main, Hamburg, Paris, Madrid and Freiburg. \nIn 1964 he obtained a Magister Artium degree in French literature in Hamburg. At the Sorbonne in 1972, he passed the exam to earn a Dr. phil. In 1990 he was appointed professor of sociology at the University of Hagen.\n\nFrom 1965 to 1972 he served at the office of the German Academic Exchange Service (DAAD) in Paris. During this time he was also a lecturer for German language and politics at the Institut d’Etudes Politiques and Ecole Nationale d’Administration in Paris.\n\nFor 30 years, from 1972 to 2002, he took the position of director at the Franco-German Institute in Ludwigsburg. \nHe also served as Vice President and Chairman of the Executive Committee of the European Cultural Foundation in Amsterdam from 1976 to 1995.\n\nHe was rector ad interim of the College of Europe from 2002 to 2003 and vice-rector of the College of Europe campus in Natolin (Warsaw) from 2004 to 2007 (ad interim 2004-2005), focusing his scholarly attention on Europe in a globalising world order.\n\n"}
{"id": "2072541", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2072541", "title": "Keith Knight (cartoonist)", "text": "Keith Knight (cartoonist)\n\nKeith Edgar Knight Jr. (born August 24, 1966) is an American cartoonist and musician known for his comic strips \"The K Chronicles\", \"(Th)ink\", and \"The Knight Life\". While his work is humorous and universal in appeal, he also often deals with political, social, and racial issues.\n\nKnight was born in Malden, Massachusetts, and raised in the Boston area. Previously a resident of San Francisco, in 2007 he moved to Los Angeles. He is now based in the Research Triangle area of North Carolina.\n\nHe is married to German-born illustrator Kerstin Konietzka-Knight, and they have two children; they appear as characters in \"The K Chronicles\" and \"The Knight Life.\" (The timeline of \"The Knight Life\" is about two years behind \"The K Chronicles.\") Knight often pokes gentle fun at his wife's mangling of English idioms. Their first son is not referred to by name, but is sometimes referred to as \"The Unbearable Cuteness of Being.\"\n\nKnight's regular feature \"The K Chronicles\", launched in the early 1990s, appears in various outlets, including Daily Kos, and previously appeared in the \"San Francisco Examiner\", while \"(th)ink\" is published on several newspapers and websites, especially African-American sites. A syndicated daily strip, \"The Knight Life\", was launched in 2008. Knight is also the artist for two strips appearing in \"Mad\": \"Father O'Flannity's Hot Tub Confessions\" and \"Bully Baby\".\n\nIn the March 14, 2012, strip of \"The K Chronicles\", Knight announced he was working on a graphic novel about his brief (1984–1985) career as a professional Michael Jackson impersonator. The book will be entitled \"I Was a Teenage Michael Jackson Impersonator\".\n\nKnight also appeared in The Marginal Prophets, a hip-hop band.\n\nKnight has become a public speaker, with comic strip slideshows addressing racial illiteracy, police brutality and the role it has played since the early years of the United States.\n\nIn November 2018 it was announced that Hulu would be producing a half-hour sitcom, titled \"Woke\", based on \"The K Chronicles\" and events from Knight's life. The show will be co-written by Knight; actor Lamorne Morris will be playing Knight.\n\nIn 2007, \"The K Chronicles\" won the Harvey Kurtzman Award for Best Syndicated Comic Strip. The other nominees were \"\", \"Doonesbury\", \"Maakies\", and \"Mutts\".\n\n\"The K Chronicles\" has won the Glyph Awards Best Comic Strip multiple times, including 2006, 2007, 2009, and 2010.\n\nIn 2010, Knight was presented with an Inkpot Award for career achievement at the San Diego Comic-Con.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2072553", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2072553", "title": "Oświęcim Synagogue", "text": "Oświęcim Synagogue\n\nThe Oświęcim Synagogue, also called the Auschwitz Synagogue, is the only active synagogue in the town of Oświęcim, Poland. The formal, as well as pre-war, name of the synagogue is \"Khevre Loymdei Mishnayos\" (English translation: Association of Those Who Study Mishna). It is now part of the Auschwitz Jewish Center, which includes a Jewish Museum, a cafe in the house of Syzmon Kleuger and an education center.\n\nThe Oświęcim synagogue was the first building restored to the Jewish community under the Polish government’s post-Communism law governing the restitution of Jewish communal property seized by German occupiers during World War II, and retained by the post-war Communist government. The building was claimed by, and is now owned by, the Jewish community of nearby Bielsko-Biala.\n\nThe synagogue was built circa 1913. During World War II, the Nazis demolished its interior and used the building as a munitions depot. After the end of war, a small group of Jewish survivors restored the synagogue to its proper function. However, the custodians soon left Poland and the synagogue ceased to operate.\n\nIn the 1970s, under communist Poland, the empty building was used as a carpet warehouse. The synagogue reopened on September 11, 2000, completely restored to its pre-war condition by the Auschwitz Jewish Center Foundation of New York, at the cost of one million dollars. It is an active synagogue used for prayers by groups and individuals visiting Auschwitz. The adjoining house was purchased by the foundation and turned into a contemporary museum called the Auschwitz Jewish Center (Żydowskie Centrum Edukacyjne). It depicts the life of Jews in pre-war Oświęcim. Both the synagogue and the Jewish center are affiliated with the Museum of Jewish Heritage in New York.\nPresently at the Synagogue, there is an Auschwitz Jewish Center, a museum and a cultural center, focused on Jewish heritage, reconciliation through art and intercultural dialogue.\n\nThe house of Szymon Kluger forms part of the complex that includes the synagogue. It now houses a cafe. The last native Jew of Oświęcim died in 2000. His death in 2000 brought to an end the old Jewish community of Oświęcim.\n\nAt the time of the Nazi invasion, more than half the population of Oświęcim was Jewish. The community was over 400 years old and there were then more than 20 synagogues in the city. The Auschwitz synagogue was not the most important synagogue in Oświęcim. The better known and bigger Great Synagogue of Oświęcim was destroyed by the Nazis on November 29, 1939, and its remains were demolished.\n\n"}
{"id": "2072565", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2072565", "title": "Soft ball", "text": "Soft ball\n\nSoft ball or softball can refer to:\n"}
{"id": "2072569", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2072569", "title": "Cinderella complex", "text": "Cinderella complex\n\nThe Cinderella complex was first described by Colette Dowling, who wrote a book on women's fear of independence – an unconscious desire to be taken care of by others. The complex is said to become more apparent as a person grows older.\n\nThe complex is named after the fairy tale character Cinderella. It is based on the idea of femininity portrayed in that story, where a woman is beautiful, graceful, polite, supportive, hardworking, independent, and maligned by the females of her society, but she is not capable of changing her situations with her own actions and must be helped by an outside force, usually a male (i.e., the Prince).\n\nThis phenomenon or syndrome becomes particularly significant with regard to the question of why women may choose to stay in dysfunctional relationships.\n\nOthers point to Ronald Fairbairn's concept of mature dependency, to challenge cultural disparagement of dependency in favor of an ideal of isolated independence. Carol Gilligan's championship of a web of connections as a feminist goal, rather than the solitary male hero, is also invoked to defend the Cinderella complex's tendency to define the self in terms of a mate/settled relationship.\n\nIn 1955, the term \"Cinderella complex\" was already used by British writer Agatha Christie in her detective story Hickory Dickory Dock. The student of psychology, Colin McNabb, diagnoses a Cinderella complex with Celia Austin. And in 1960 Osbert Sitwell published the comedy \"The Cinderella Complex\".\n\nIn the movie \"Tootsie\", Teri Garr tells Dustin Hoffman during their break-up at the end of the movie, \"I read the Cinderella Complex, I know I'm responsible for my own orgasm! I don't care, I just don't like being lied to!\" \n\nIn the TV series \"Police Squad!\" episode 4 \"Revenge and Remorse\", Joyce Brothers gets advice from the shoe shine man Johnny about how to treat the Cinderella Complex: \"Tell them to get in touch with their unconscious feelings and to share in the growth process with their partner\"\n\nIt is also mentioned in Netflix's \"Sex Education\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2072592", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2072592", "title": "Boris Brott", "text": "Boris Brott\n\nBoris Brott, (born March 14, 1944) is a Canadian conductor and motivational speaker. He is one of the most internationally recognized Canadian conductors, having conducted on stages around the world, including Carnegie Hall and Covent Garden. He is known for his innovative methods of introducing classical music to new audiences. Over his career, he has commissioned, performed and recorded a wide variety of Canadian works.\n\nBrott is the founder and artistic director of the National Academy Orchestra of Canada and the Brott Music Festival, both based in Hamilton, Ontario. He is the founding Music Director and Conductor Laureate of the New West Symphony in Los Angeles, and Artistic Director and Conductor of the McGill Chamber Orchestra in Montreal. He is a former Principal Youth and Family conductor with the National Arts Centre Orchestra in Ottawa, where he continues to conduct family and education concerts.\n\nBoris Jeremiah Brott was born Montreal in 1944 to violinist and composer Alexander Brott and cellist Lotte Brott. He is the brother of cellist Denis Brott. He studied violin with his father, and performed at the age of five with the Montreal Symphony Orchestra at a young peoples' matinee. He took courses at the Conservatoire de musique du Québec à Montréal and the McGill Conservatory, and in 1956 studied conducting at the summer school of Pierre Monteux, who engaged him as assistant for concerts in Europe. He next studied with Igor Markevitch and won first prize at the 1958 Pan-American conducting competition. In 1959, at the age of 15, he founded the Philharmonic Youth Orchestra of Montreal and led it in his conducting debut in that city.\n\nIn June 1962, Brott won third prize at the Liverpool Competition. He served 1963-5 as Walter Susskind's assistant conductor with the Toronto Symphony Orchestra and then embarked on a career in England as conductor of the Northern Sinfonia at Newcastle upon Tyne (1964-8). He made several tours with this chamber orchestra, among which was one in Canada, which included concerts at Expo 67.\n\nFrom 1964 to 1967, Brott was principal conductor for the touring company of the Royal Ballet Covent Garden. During the 1965-6 season at Covent Garden he conducted the Royal Ballet's first production at that theatre of Stravinsky's The Soldier's Tale (1966) and toured the production in Britain. He won first prize and a gold medal at the sixth Dimitri Mitropoulos International Music Competition in 1968 and served 1968-9 as assistant conductor to Leonard Bernstein, with the New York Philharmonic Orchestra.\n\nBrott was named one of Canada's Outstanding Young Men in 1969 and 1973 by the Junior Chamber of Commerce. In 1972 Brott was appointed conductor of the BBC Welsh Orchestra.\n\nBrott directed the Lakehead Symphony Orchestra (Thunder Bay Symphony Orchestra) between 1967 and 1972 and the Regina Symphony Orchestra from 1971 to 1973.\n\nFrom 1969 to 1990 Brott was artistic director and conductor of the Hamilton Philharmonic Orchestra, which grew from an amateur ensemble to a professional one with a 42-week season and 16,000 subscribers. The orchestra also gave birth to the quintet Canadian Brass. Brott and the HPO were in the news when they performed in the middle of a steel factory blast furnace in Hamilton's industrial core at Dofasco Inc.- now Arcelor Mittal. A charismatic maestro, Brott included visual elements, ballet dancers, Shakespearean actors, film, rock groups, even astronauts to the stages of classical music concerts.\n\nIn 1975, Brott assumed directorship of the CBC Winnipeg Orchestra. In 1977 he had made his opera debut, conducting Donizetti's Daughter of the Regiment for the COC. Brott later directed Opera Hamilton and guest-conducted with the Canadian Opera Company and Sadler's Wells Opera.\n\nBrott served as the Principal Youth and Family conductor with the National Arts Centre Orchestra in Ottawa. From 1982 to 1985 he was artistic director of Symphony Nova Scotia. He led the Ontario Place Pops Orchestra 1983-1991.\n\nIn 1988, he founded the Brott Music Festival, which has since become Canada's largest orchestral music festival. It is a major cultural event in Hamilton and surrounding areas for the months of July and August. From that, he created the National Academy Orchestra of Canada, recognized in 1999 as a National School by the Department of Canadian Heritage. The NAO pairs music graduates pursuing a career with professional musicians from North American orchestras in a mentor-apprentice relationship. It is Canada's only professional training orchestra and has graduated about 1,000 musicians.\n\nBrott studied law at the University of Western Ontario 1992-5, and in 1995 began giving motivational seminars to Fortune 500 companies using symphonic music as a metaphor. Brott has produced, conducted, or hosted a large number of television and radio programs for the CBC, and the BBC and ITV in the UK, and recorded with various orchestras for CBC, Mercury, Pro-Arte and Sony Classical.\n\nBrott became the first music director of the New West Symphony, California, in 1995, and was later named Conductor Laureate.\n\nBrott embarked on a guest conducting schedule at Italy's opera halls, including the Teatro Petruzzelli, the Arena di Verona and the Teatro Giuseppe Verdi in Trieste. In 2000, he conducted the first performance of Bernstein's Mass in Vatican City for an audience which included the late Pope John Paul II. In 2002, he took over leadership of the McGill Chamber Orchestra.\n\nIn 2011 Brott was named Principal Guest Conductor of the historic Petruzzelli Theatre in Bari, Italy.\n\nAs of 2018, Brott continues to direct the National Academy Orchestra of Canada and the Brott Music Festival in Hamilton, to conduct the McGill Chamber Orchestra in Montreal, and to conduct performances for children with the National Arts Centre Orchestra in Ottawa.\n\nIn 1986, Brott was made an Officer of the Order of Canada. In 2006, he was made a member of the Order of Ontario.\n\nIn May, 2006 he was voted one of the top five Greatest Hamiltonians of all time by Hamilton Spectator readers. In 2007, he was given the Lifetime Achievement Award by Tourism Hamilton and was also awarded Canada's National Child Day award in Ottawa for introducing classical music to over a million schoolchildren over his career to date. Also in 2007, he received the City of Hamilton Lifetime Achievement Arts Award.\n\nBrott is married to author and attorney Ardyth Webster Brott and has three children. He makes his permanent home in Hamilton, Ontario.\n\n"}
{"id": "2072600", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2072600", "title": "Mini-Cassette", "text": "Mini-Cassette\n\nThe Mini-Cassette, often written minicassette, is a magnetic tape audio cassette format introduced by Philips in 1967. It is used primarily in dictation machines and was also employed as a data storage for the Philips P2000 home computer. Unlike the Compact Cassette, also designed by Philips, and the later Microcassette, introduced by Olympus, the Mini-Cassette does not use a capstan drive system; instead, the tape is propelled past the tape head by the reels. This is mechanically simple and allows the cassette to be made smaller and easier to use, but produces a system unsuited to any task other than voice recording, as the tape speed is not constant (averaging 2.4 cm/s) and prone to wow and flutter. However, the lack of a capstan and a pinch roller drive means that the tape is well-suited to being repeatedly shuttled forward and backward short distances as compared to microcassettes, leading to the Mini-Cassette's use in the first generations of telephone answering machines, and continuing use in the niche markets of dictation and transcription, where fidelity is not critical, but robustness of storage is, and where analog media remained in use long after digital media had been introduced.\nThe Mini-Cassette could be played in a compact cassette player with the use of an adapter.\n\nIn 1980 Philips release several recorder models (MDCR220, LDB4401, LDB4051, etc.) that encoded and read digital audio on standard mini-cassettes . A computer model (the Philips P2000) also used the mini-cassette as a digital medium and provided automatic management of the drive, including search, space and directory management, fast-forward and rewind.\n\nA very similar (but incompatible) cassette format was produced by Hewlett-Packard and Verbatim (the HP82176A Mini Data Cassette) for data storage in their HP82161A tape drive, which, like other minicassettes, did not use a capstan.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2072609", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2072609", "title": "Tempozan Ferris Wheel", "text": "Tempozan Ferris Wheel\n\nTempozan Ferris Wheel is located in Osaka, Japan, at Tempozan Harbor Village, next to Osaka Aquarium Kaiyukan, one of the largest aquariums in the world. The wheel has a height of and diameter of .\n\nTempozan Ferris Wheel opened to the public on July 12, 1997, and was then the tallest Ferris wheel in the world. During the 17-minute ride it offers a view of Osaka Bay and surrounding areas, including Mount Ikoma to the east, Akashi Kaikyō Bridge to the west, Kansai International Airport to the south, and the Rokko Mountains to the north.\n\nThe wheel has colored lights that provide a weather forecast for the next day. Orange lights indicate a sunny day, green lights a cloudy day and blue lights indicate rain.\n\nThe Daikanransha Ferris wheel at Palette Town in Odaiba, Tokyo, which opened in 1999, has the same diameter as Tempozan, but 2.5 metres more in total height. Sky Dream Fukuoka opened in 2002 and has a diameter of 112 metres and a total height of 120 metres, but ceased operating in September 2009. The Diamond and Flower Ferris Wheel at Kasai Rinkai Park, east of Tokyo, opened in 2001 and has a diameter of 111 metres and a height of 117 metres.\n"}
{"id": "2072616", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2072616", "title": "Neuroprosthetics", "text": "Neuroprosthetics\n\nNeuroprosthetics (also called neural prosthetics) is a discipline related to neuroscience and biomedical engineering concerned with developing neural prostheses. They are sometimes contrasted with a brain–computer interface, which connects the brain to a computer rather than a device meant to replace missing biological functionality.\n\nNeural prostheses are a series of devices that can substitute a motor, sensory or cognitive modality that might have been damaged as a result of an injury or a disease. Cochlear implants provide an example of such devices. These devices substitute the functions performed by the eardrum and stapes while simulating the frequency analysis performed in the cochlea. A microphone on an external unit gathers the sound and processes it; the processed signal is then transferred to an implanted unit that stimulates the auditory nerve through a microelectrode array. Through the replacement or augmentation of damaged senses, these devices intend to improve the quality of life for those with disabilities.\n\nThese implantable devices are also commonly used in animal experimentation as a tool to aid neuroscientists in developing a greater understanding of the brain and its functioning. By wirelessly monitoring the brain's electrical signals sent out by electrodes implanted in the subject's brain, the subject can be studied without the device affecting the results.\n\nAccurately probing and recording the electrical signals in the brain would help better understand the relationship among a local population of neurons that are responsible for a specific function.\n\nNeural implants are designed to be as small as possible in order to be minimally invasive, particularly in areas surrounding the brain, eyes or cochlea. These implants typically communicate with their prosthetic counterparts wirelessly. Additionally, power is currently received through wireless power transmission through the skin. The tissue surrounding the implant is usually highly sensitive to temperature rise, meaning that power consumption must be minimal in order to prevent tissue damage.\n\nThe neuroprosthetic currently undergoing the most widespread use is the cochlear implant, with over 300,000 in use worldwide .\n\nThe first known cochlear implant was created in 1957. Other milestones include the first motor prosthesis for foot drop in hemiplegia in 1961, the first auditory brainstem implant in 1977 and a peripheral nerve bridge implanted into the spinal cord of an adult rat in 1981. In 1988, the lumbar anterior root implant and functional electrical stimulation (FES) facilitated standing and walking, respectively, for a group of paraplegics.\n\nRegarding the development of electrodes implanted in the brain, an early difficulty was reliably locating the electrodes, originally done by inserting the electrodes with needles and breaking off the needles at the desired depth. Recent systems utilize more advanced probes, such as those used in deep brain stimulation to alleviate the symptoms of Parkinson's disease. The problem with either approach is that the brain floats free in the skull while the probe does not, and relatively minor impacts, such as a low speed car accident, are potentially damaging. Some researchers, such as Kensall Wise at the University of Michigan, have proposed tethering 'electrodes to be mounted on the exterior surface of the brain' to the inner surface of the skull. However, even if successful, tethering would not resolve the problem in devices meant to be inserted deep into the brain, such as in the case of deep brain stimulation (DBS).\n\nA visual prosthesis can create a sense of image by electrically stimulating neurons in the visual system. A camera would wirelessly transmit to an implant, the implant would map the image across an array of electrodes. The array of electrodes has to effectively stimulate 600-1000 locations, stimulating these optic neurons in the retina thus will create an image. The stimulation can also be done anywhere along the optic signal's path way. The optical nerve can be stimulated in order to create an image, or the visual cortex can be stimulated, although clinical tests have proven most successful for retinal implants.\n\nA visual prosthesis system consists of an external (or implantable) imaging system which acquires and processes the video. Power and data will be transmitted to the implant wirelessly by the external unit. The implant uses the received power/data to convert the digital data to an analog output which will be delivered to the nerve via micro electrodes.\n\nPhotoreceptors are the specialized neurons that convert photons into electrical signals. They are part of the retina, a multilayer neural structure about 200 um thick that lines the back of the eye. The processed signal is sent to the brain through the optical nerve. If any part of this pathway is damaged blindness can occur.\n\nBlindness can result from damage to the optical pathway (cornea, aqueous humor, crystalline lens, and vitreous). This can happen as a result of accident or disease. The two most common retinal degenerative diseases that result in blindness secondary to photoreceptor loss is age related macular degeneration (AMD) and retinitis pigmentosa (RP).\n\nThe first clinical trial of a permanently implanted retinal prosthesis was a device with a passive microphotodiode array with 3500 elements. This trial was implemented at Optobionics, Inc., in 2000. In 2002, Second Sight Medical Products, Inc. (Sylmar, CA) began a trial with a prototype epiretinal implant with 16 electrodes. The subjects were six individuals with bare light perception secondary to RP. The subjects demonstrated their ability to distinguish between three common objects (plate, cup, and knife) at levels statistically above chance. An active sub retinal device developed by Retina Implant GMbH (Reutlingen, Germany) began clinical trials in 2006. An IC with 1500 microphotodiodes was implanted under the retina. The microphotodiodes serve to modulate current pulses based on the amount of light incident on the photo diode.\n\nThe seminal experimental work towards the development of visual prostheses was done by cortical stimulation using a grid of large surface electrodes. In 1968 Giles Brindley implanted an 80 electrode device on the visual cortical surface of a 52-year-old blind woman. As a result of the stimulation the patient was able to see phosphenes in 40 different positions of the visual field. This experiment showed that an implanted electrical stimulator device could restore some degree of vision. Recent efforts in visual cortex prosthesis have evaluated efficacy of visual cortex stimulation in a non-human primate. In this experiment after a training and mapping process the monkey is able to perform the same visual saccade task with both light and electrical stimulation.\n\nThe requirements for a high resolution retinal prosthesis should follow from the needs and desires of blind individuals who will benefit from the device. Interactions with these patients indicate that mobility without a cane, face recognition and reading are the main necessary enabling capabilities.\n\nThe results and implications of fully functional visual prostheses are exciting. However, the challenges are grave. In order for a good quality image to be mapped in the retina a high number of micro-scale electrode arrays are needed. Also, the image quality is dependent on how much information can be sent over the wireless link. Also this high amount of information must be received and processed by the implant without much power dissipation which can damage the tissue. The size of the implant is also of great concern. Any implant would be preferred to be minimally invasive.\n\nWith this new technology, several scientists, including Karen Moxon at Drexel, John Chapin at SUNY, and Miguel Nicolelis at Duke University, started research on the design of a sophisticated visual prosthesis. Other scientists have disagreed with the focus of their research, arguing that the basic research and design of the densely populated microscopic wire was not sophisticated enough to proceed.\n\nCochlear implants (CIs), auditory brain stem implants (ABIs), and auditory midbrain implants (AMIs) are the three main categories for auditory prostheses. CI electrode arrays are implanted in the cochlea, ABI electrode arrays stimulate the cochlear nucleus complex in the lower brain stem, and AMIs stimulates auditory neurons in the inferior colliculus. Cochlear implants have been very successful among these three categories. Today the Advanced Bionics Corporation, the Cochlear Corporation and the Med-El Corporation are the major commercial providers of cochlea implants.\n\nIn contrast to traditional hearing aids that amplify sound and send it through the external ear, cochlear implants acquire and process the sound and convert it into electrical energy for subsequent delivery to the auditory nerve. The microphone of the CI system receives sound from the external environment and sends it to processor. The processor digitizes the sound and filters it into separate frequency bands that are sent to the appropriate tonotonic region in the cochlea that approximately corresponds to those frequencies.\n\nIn 1957, French researchers A. Djourno and C. Eyries, with the help of D. Kayser, provided the first detailed description of directly stimulation the auditory nerve in a human subject. The individuals described hearing chirping sounds during simulation. In 1972, the first portable cochlear implant system in an adult was implanted at the House Ear Clinic. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) formally approved the marketing of the House-3M cochlear implant in November 1984.\n\nImproved performance on cochlear implant not only depends on understanding the physical and biophysical limitations of implant stimulation but also on an understanding of the brain's pattern processing requirements. Modern signal processing represents the most important speech information while also providing the brain the pattern recognition information that it needs. Pattern recognition in the brain is more effective than algorithmic preprocessing at identifying important features in speech. A combination of engineering, signal processing, biophysics, and cognitive neuroscience was necessary to produce the right balance of technology to maximize the performance of auditory prosthesis.\n\nCochlear implants have been also used to allow acquiring of spoken language development in congenitally deaf children, with remarkable success in early implantations (before 2–4 years of life have been reached). There have been about 80,000 children implanted worldwide.\n\nThe concept of combining simultaneous electric-acoustic stimulation (EAS) for the purposes of better hearing was first described by C. von Ilberg and J. Kiefer, from the Universitätsklinik Frankfurt, Germany, in 1999. That same year the first EAS patient was implanted. Since the early 2000s FDA has been involved in a clinical trial of device termed the \"Hybrid\" by Cochlear Corporation. This trial is aimed at examining the usefulness of cochlea implantation in patients with residual low-frequency hearing. The \"Hybrid\" utilizes a shorter electrode than the standard cochlea implant, since the electrode is shorter it stimulates the basil region of the cochlea and hence the high-frequency tonotopic region. In theory these devices would benefit patients with significant low-frequency residual hearing who have lost perception in the speech frequency range and hence have decreased discrimination scores.\n\nFor producing sound see Speech synthesis.\n\nThe SCS (Spinal Cord Stimulator) device has two main components: an electrode and a generator. The technical goal of SCS for neuropathic pain is to mask the area of a patient's pain with a stimulation induced tingling, known as \"paresthesia\", because this overlap is necessary (but not sufficient) to achieve pain relief. Paresthesia coverage depends upon which afferent nerves are stimulated. The most easily recruited by a dorsal midline electrode, close to the pial surface of spinal cord, are the large dorsal column afferents, which produce broad paresthesia covering segments caudally.\n\nIn ancient times the electrogenic fish was used as a shocker to subside pain. Healers had developed specific and detailed techniques to exploit the generative qualities of the fish to treat various types of pain, including headache. Because of the awkwardness of using a living shock generator, a fair level of skill was required to deliver the therapy to the target for the proper amount of time. (Including keeping the fish alive as long as possible)\nElectro analgesia was the first deliberate application of electricity. By the nineteenth century, most western physicians were offering their patients electrotherapy delivered by portable generator. In the mid-1960s, however, three things converged to ensure the future of electro stimulation.\n\n\nThe design options for electrodes include their size, shape, arrangement, number, and assignment of contacts and how the electrode is implanted.\nThe design option for the pulse generator include the power source, target anatomic placement location, current or voltage source, pulse rate, pulse width, and number of independent channels.\nProgramming options are very numerous (a four-contact electrode offers 50 functional bipolar combinations). The current devices use computerized equipment to find the best options for use. This reprogramming option compensates for postural changes, electrode migration, changes in pain location, and suboptimal electrode placement.\n\nDevices which support the function of autonomous nervous system include the implant for bladder control. In the somatic nervous system attempts to aid conscious control of movement include Functional electrical stimulation and the lumbar anterior root stimulator.\n\nWhere a spinal cord lesion leads to paraplegia, patients have difficulty emptying their bladders and this can cause infection. From 1969 onwards Brindley developed the sacral anterior root stimulator, with successful human trials from the early 1980s onwards. This device is implanted over the sacral anterior root ganglia of the spinal cord; controlled by an external transmitter, it delivers intermittent stimulation which improves bladder emptying. It also assists in defecation and enables male patients to have a sustained full erection.\n\nThe related procedure of sacral nerve stimulation is for the control of incontinence in able-bodied patients.\n\nResearchers are currently investigating and building motor neuroprosthetics that will help restore movement and the ability to communicate with the outside world to persons with motor disabilities such as tetraplegia or amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. Research has found that the striatum plays a crucial role in motor sensory learning. This was demonstrated by an experiment in which lab rats' firing rates of the striatum was recorded at higher rates after performing a task consecutively.\n\nTo capture electrical signals from the brain, scientists have developed microelectrode arrays smaller than a square centimeter that can be implanted in the skull to record electrical activity, transducing recorded information through a thin cable. After decades of research in monkeys, neuroscientists have been able to decode neuronal signals into movements. Completing the translation, researchers have built interfaces that allow patients to move computer cursors, and they are beginning to build robotic limbs and exoskeletons that patients can control by thinking about movement.\n\nThe technology behind motor neuroprostheses is still in its infancy. Investigators and study participants continue to experiment with different ways of using the prostheses. Having a patient think about clenching a fist, for example, produces a different result than having him or her think about tapping a finger. The filters used in the prostheses are also being fine-tuned, and in the future, doctors hope to create an implant capable of transmitting signals from inside the skull wirelessly, as opposed to through a cable.\n\nPrior to these advancements, Philip Kennedy (Emory and Georgia Tech) had an operable if somewhat primitive system which allowed an individual with paralysis to spell words by modulating their brain activity. Kennedy's device used two neurotrophic electrodes: the first was implanted in an intact motor cortical region (e.g. finger representation area) and was used to move a cursor among a group of letters. The second was implanted in a different motor region and was used to indicate the selection.\n\nDevelopments continue in replacing lost arms with cybernetic replacements by using nerves normally connected to the pectoralis muscles. These arms allow a slightly limited range of motion, and reportedly are slated to feature sensors for detecting pressure and temperature.\n\nDr. Todd Kuiken at Northwestern University and Rehabilitation Institute of Chicago has developed a method called targeted reinnervation for an amputee to control motorized prosthetic devices and to regain sensory feedback.\n\nIn 2002 a Multielectrode array of 100 electrodes, which now forms the sensor part of a Braingate, was implanted directly into the median nerve fibers of scientist Kevin Warwick. The recorded signals were used to control a robot arm developed by Warwick's colleague, Peter Kyberd and was able to mimic the actions of Warwick's own arm. Additionally, a form of sensory feedback was provided via the implant by passing small electrical currents into the nerve. This caused a contraction of the first lumbrical muscle of the hand and it was this movement that was perceived.\n\nIn June 2014, Juliano Pinto, a paraplegic athlete, performed the ceremonial first kick at the 2014 FIFA World Cup using a powered exoskeleton with a brain interface. The exoskeleton was developed by the Walk Again Project at the laboratory of Miguel Nicolelis, funded by the government of Brazil. Nicolelis says that feedback from replacement limbs (for example, information about the pressure experienced by a prosthetic foot touching the ground) is necessary for balance. He has found that as long as people can see the limbs being controlled by a brain interface move at the same time as issuing the command to do so, with repeated use the brain will assimilate the externally powered limb and it will start to perceive it (in terms of position awareness and feedback) as part of the body.\n\nThe MIT Biomechatronics Group has designed a novel amputation paradigm that enables biological muscles and myoelectric prostheses to interface neurally with high reliability. This surgical paradigm, termed the agonist-antagonist myoneural interface (AMI), provides the user with the ability to sense and control their prosthetic limb as an extension of their own body, rather than using a prosthetic that merely resembles an appendage. In a normal agonist-antagonist muscle pair relationship (e.g. bicep-tricep), when the agonist muscle contracts, the antagonist muscle is stretched, and vice versa, providing one with the knowledge of the position of one's limb without even having to look at it. During a standard amputation, agonist-antagonist muscles (e.g. bicep-tricep) are isolated from each other, preventing the ability to have the dynamic contract-extend mechanism that generates sensory feedback. Therefore, current amputees have no way of feeling the physical environment their prosthetic limb encounters. Moreover, with the current amputation surgery which has been in place for over 200 years, 1/3 patients undergo revision surgeries due to pain in their stumps.\n\nAn AMI is composed of two muscles that originally shared an agonist-antagonist relationship. During the amputation surgery, these two muscles are mechanically linked together within the amputated stump. One AMI muscle pair can be created for each joint degree of freedom in a patient in order to establish control and sensation of multiple prosthetic joints. In preliminary testing of this new neural interface, patients with an AMI have demonstrated and reported greater control over the prosthesis. Additionally, more naturally reflexive behavior during stair walking was observed compared to subjects with a traditional amputation. An AMI can also be constructed through the combination of two devascularized muscle grafts. These muscle grafts (or flaps) are spare muscle that is denervated (detached from original nerves) and removed from one part of the body to be re-innervated by severed nerves found in the limb to be amputated. Through the use of regenerated muscle flaps, AMIs can be created for patients with muscle tissue that has experienced extreme atrophy or damage or for patients who are undergoing revision of an amputated limb for reasons such as neuroma pain, bone spurs, etc.\n\nAccurate characterization of the nonlinear input/output (I/O) parameters of the normally functioning tissue to be replaced is paramount to designing a prosthetic that mimics normal biologic synaptic signals. Mathematical modeling of these signals is a complex task \"because of the nonlinear dynamics inherent in the cellular/molecular mechanisms comprising neurons and their synaptic connections\". The output of nearly all brain neurons are dependent on which post-synaptic inputs are active and in what order the inputs are received. (spatial and temporal properties, respectively).\n\nOnce the I/O parameters are modeled mathematically, integrated circuits are designed to mimic the normal biologic signals. For the prosthetic to perform like normal tissue, it must process the input signals, a process known as transformation, in the same way as normal tissue.\n\nImplantable devices must be very small to be implanted directly in the brain, roughly the size of a quarter. One of the example of microimplantable electrode array is the Utah array.\n\nWireless controlling devices can be mounted outside of the skull and should be smaller than a pager.\n\nPower consumption drives battery size. Optimization of the implanted circuits reduces power needs. Implanted devices currently need on-board power sources. Once the battery runs out, surgery is needed to replace the unit. Longer battery life correlates to fewer surgeries needed to replace batteries. One option that could be used to recharge implant batteries without surgery or wires is being used in powered toothbrushes. These devices make use of inductive coupling to recharge batteries. Another strategy is to convert electromagnetic energy into electrical energy, as in radio-frequency identification tags.\n\nCognitive prostheses are implanted directly in the brain, so biocompatibility is a very important obstacle to overcome.\nMaterials used in the housing of the device, the electrode material (such as iridium oxide), and electrode insulation must be chosen for long term implantation. Subject to Standards: ISO 14708-3 2008-11-15, Implants for Surgery - Active implantable medical devices Part 3: Implantable neurostimulators.\n\nCrossing the blood–brain barrier can introduce pathogens or other materials that may cause an immune response. The brain has its own immune system that acts differently from the immune system of the rest of the body.\n\nQuestions to answer: How does this affect material choice? Does the brain have unique phages that act differently and may affect materials thought to be biocompatible in other areas of the body?\n\nWireless Transmission is being developed to allow continuous recording of neuronal signals of individuals in their daily life. This allows physicians and clinicians to capture more data, ensuring that short term events like epileptic seizures can be recorded, allowing better treatment and characterization of neural disease.\n\nA small, light weight device has been developed that allows constant recording of primate brain neurons at Stanford University. This technology also enables neuroscientists to study the brain outside of the controlled environment of a lab.\n\nMethods of data transmission must be robust and secure. Neurosecurity is a new issue. Makers of cognitive implants must prevent unwanted downloading of information or thoughts from and uploading of detrimental data to the device that may interrupt function.\n\nImplantation of the device presents many problems. First, the correct presynaptic inputs must be wired to the correct postsynaptic inputs on the device. Secondly, the outputs from the device must be targeted correctly on the desired tissue. Thirdly, the brain must learn how to use the implant. Various studies in brain plasticity suggest that this may be possible through exercises designed with proper motivation.\n\nLocal field potentials (LFPs) are electrophysiological signals that are related to the sum of all dendritic synaptic activity within a volume of tissue. Recent studies suggest goals and expected value are high-level cognitive functions that can be used for neural cognitive prostheses.\nAlso, Rice University scientists have discovered a new method to tune the light-induced vibrations of nanoparticles through slight alterations to the surface to which the particles are attached. According to the university, the discovery could lead to new applications of photonics from molecular sensing to wireless communications. They used ultrafast laser pulses to induce the atoms in gold nanodisks to vibrate.\n\nOne hurdle to overcome is the long term implantation of electrodes. If the electrodes are moved by physical shock or the brain moves in relation to electrode position, the electrodes could be recording different nerves. Adjustment to electrodes is necessary to maintain an optimal signal. Individually adjusting multi electrode arrays is a very tedious and time consuming process. Development of automatically adjusting electrodes would mitigate this problem. Anderson's group is currently collaborating with Yu-Chong Tai's lab and the Burdick lab (all at Caltech) to make such a system that uses electrolysis-based actuators to independently adjust electrodes in a chronically implanted array of electrodes.\n\nImage-guided surgery is used to precisely position brain implants.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2072620", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2072620", "title": "Natalvar", "text": "Natalvar\n\nThe word Natalvar in Tamil means 'The ones who rule the country'. This is the name given to the Santror by Thirumal according to Ayyavazhi mythology.\n\n"}
{"id": "2072627", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2072627", "title": "Bardejov", "text": "Bardejov\n\nBardejov (; , , , , ) is a town in North-Eastern Slovakia. It is situated in the Šariš region on a floodplain terrace of the Topľa River, in the hills of the Beskyd Mountains. It exhibits numerous cultural monuments in its completely intact medieval town center. The town is one of UNESCO's World Heritage Sites and currently maintains a population of about 32,000 inhabitants.\n\nThere are two theories about the origin of the name. According to one theory, the name town comes from the Hungarian word \"\"bárd\"\" (), which indicated an amount of forested territory which could be chopped down by one man in one day. In the Hungarian name (Bártfa), the \"\"fa\"\" (English: \"tree\") suffix came later, and it also changed the last letter of \"\"bárd\"\" to \"\"bárt\"\", for easier pronunciation.\n\nAnother theory derives the name from a Christian personal name \"Barděj\", \"Barduj\" (abbreviated forms of Bartholomew) with common Slavic possessive suffix \"-ov\". This theory is supported by the first recorded form of the name – \"Bardujef\" (1241). The motivation by the personal name is supported also by the presence of the suffix preserved in later Polish or Slovak sources.\n\nThe territory of present-day Bardejov has attracted settlers since the Stone Age. However, the first written reference to the town dates back to the 1240s, when monks from Bardejov complained to King Béla IV about a violation of the town's borders by Prešov. By that time, the important church of Sv. Aegidius (St. Giles) had already been built. Heavily fortified in the 14th century, the town became a center of trade with Poland. More than 50 guilds controlled the flourishing economy. Bardejov gained the status of a royal town in 1376, later becoming a free royal town. The town’s golden age ended in the 16th century, when several wars, pandemics, and other disasters plagued the country.\n\nBeginning in the first quarter of the 18th century, the situation began to improve. Slovaks and Hasidic Jews came into Bardejov in large numbers. By the end of the century, the population of the town had regained the level of the 16th century. The burghers' houses were rebuilt or modified in keeping with current architectural fashion. A Jewish quarter with a synagogue, slaughterhouse, and ritual baths developed in the north-western suburbs. New churches and bridges were built, as well.\n\nDuring the Reformation, Michal Radašin was called as town pastor.\n\nDespite further fires in the last quarter of the 19th century, the town continued to thrive, thanks to major industrialization projects in the region. In 1893, a railway was opened connecting Presov to Bardejov. However, it declined again following the establishment of the first Czechoslovak Republic and became a backward farming region. World War II saw a worsening in the economic situation, though little damage from bombardment. Bardejov was taken by Soviet troops of the 1st Guards Army on 20 January 1945.\n\nIn 1950, Bardejov was declared a protected city core and extensive restoration of its cultural heritage began. These efforts culminated in Bardejov receiving the European Gold Medal by the International Board of Trustees in Hamburg in 1986 – the first town in Czechoslovakia to receive the award. On November 20, 2000, Bardejov was selected by UNESCO as one of its World Heritage Sites, recognized for its Jewish Suburbia and historic town center. In November 2010, the city marked the 10th anniversary of its inscription on the UNESCO World Heritage list.\n\nToday, Bardejov is known mainly for its authentic old town square, which due to extensive restoration and preservation of its Medieval, Renaissance, and Gothic architecture has made Bardejov a popular tourist destination. The town draws on its rich heritage to further develop cultural traditions, such as an annual trade fair and the Roland Games (commemorating its medieval past).\n\nLike many European small towns, Bardejov maintained a strong Jewish population before World War II and the Holocaust, as well as a German-speaking population which was expelled after 1945, although a small number of German speakers remains.\n\nIn March 2006, the Bardejov Jewish Preservation Committee was founded as a non-profit organization by Emil Fish, a survivor of Bergen-Belsen concentration camp who was born in Bardejov. In July 2005, Mr. Fish returned to Bardejov with his wife and son for the first time since 1949. His response to the disrepair and dilapidation of the synagogues and the Jewish cemetery was a resolve to restore and preserve these properties. The committee is composed of Bardejov survivors, their descendants and friends, and others interested in commemorating the vanishing Jewish communities of Eastern Europe. Today, the committee's stated mission is to: \"restore the Jewish properties of Bardejov, Slovakia\"; \"build awareness of the cultural and historical significance of Jewish life in Bardejov and Slovakia\"; and \"advance knowledge of Jewish ancestry and heritage.\"\n\nBardejov is dominated by the monumental Church of St. Aegidius (Giles), mentioned for the first time in 1247. A three nave basilica with multiple chapels was completed in 1464. It hosts eleven precious Gothic winged altars with panel paintings. The central square (Slovak: \"Radničné námestie\"), which used to be the town’s medieval marketplace, is surrounded by well-preserved Gothic and Renaissance burghers’ houses as well as the basilica.\n\nOne of the most interesting buildings is the town hall, built in 1505. The lower part was built in the Gothic style, while the upper part was finished in the Renaissance style. This was the headquarters of the city council and also the center of the town's economic, social, and cultural life. In 1903, the town hall was adapted to serve as Šariš County Museum (Sárosi múzeum), now known as the Šariš Museum Bardejov, one of the oldest and the biggest museums in Slovakia.\n\nThe fortification system and town walls date from the 14th and 15th centuries and are listed by the European Fund of Cultural Heritage as one of the most elaborate and best preserved medieval fortifications in Slovakia.\n\nAbout north of Bardejov is the spa town \"Bardejovské Kúpele\". The therapeutic mineral water springs are claimed to be beneficial to people with oncological, blood circulation, and digestive tract problems. It also hosts an open-air museum of folk architecture (\"skansen\"). The spa has played host to a number of dignitaries, including Marie Louise, Duchess of Parma (the wife of Napoleon Bonaparte), Tsar Alexander I of Russia and Empress Elisabeth of Austria-Hungary.\n\nThe town consists of the following boroughs:\n\nBardejov has a population of 33,020 (as of December 31, 2010). According to the 2001 census, 91.3% of inhabitants were Slovaks, 2.6% Romani, 2.5% Rusyns, and 1.4% Ukrainians. The religious make-up was 63.2% Roman Catholics, 16.9% Greek Catholics, 7.6% Lutherans and 4.3% Eastern Orthodox. \n\nBy the 1910 census, it had 2,571 Slovak, 2,179 Hungarian and 1,617 German inhabitants.\n\nJews lived in the town for about 300 years. By the 1920s Jews made up 34% of the total population of Bardejov. In 1942, when Slovakia was under the influence of Nazi Germany, more than 3,000 Jews from Bardejov were deported to concentration camps, where most were murdered. Bardejov is now a \"town without Jews.\"\nThe town was the northest Hungarian majority settlement until the Ottoman wars near the Polish border.\n\n\nBardejov is twinned with:\n\n\nThe records for genealogical research are available at the state archive \"Statny Archiv in Presov, Slovakia\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2072629", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2072629", "title": "Qu Qiubai", "text": "Qu Qiubai\n\nQu Qiubai (; 29 January 1899 – 18 June 1935) was a leader of the Communist Party of China in the late 1920s. He was born in Changzhou, Jiangsu, China.\n\nQu was born in Changzhou, Jiangsu. His family lived in Tianxiang Lou () located on Qingguo Lane (). Qu's father, Qu Shiwei (), was born in a family that was once powerful. He was good at painting and fencing and acquired much medical knowledge, but had no interest in politics and business. Qu's mother, Jin Xuan (), the daughter of an elite government official, was skilled in poetry. Qu had five brothers and one sister, he being the eldest. When Qu was young, his family lived in his uncle's house and was supported financially by relatives. Though Qu's father took a job as teacher, he was not able to support his family due to his addiction to opium. In 1915, Qu's mother, overcome by her life's mounting difficulties and debts, committed suicide.\n\nIn 1916, Qu went to Hankou and entered Wuchang Foreign Language School to learn English with the support of his cousin. In the spring of 1917, Qu went to Beijing to apply for a job, but did not pass the general civil service examination. Not having enough money to pay for a regular university tuition, Qu enrolled in the newly established Russian Language Institute under the Chinese Ministry of Foreign Affairs (), since it did not require payment of fee. The institute also offered a stipend and promised him a job upon graduation.\n\nQu worked hard in the language institute, learning both French and Russian and spending his spare time studying Buddhist philosophy and classical Chinese. Both were his interests cultivated since childhood, as well as the works of Bertrand Russell whose discussion of physics and perception was to Qu similar to the teachings of Buddhism.\n\nHis earliest contacts with revolutionary circles came when he participated in discussions of Marxist analysis hosted by Li Dazhao at Beijing University, who was the campus' head librarian. The future communist leader and chairman of China Mao Zedong was also present at these meetings. Qu later took a job as a journalist for a Beijing newspaper \"Morning News\" () and was sent to Moscow as a correspondent, even though this would jeopardise a career in the civil service which his earlier training had prepared him for. Qu was one of the first Chinese to report from Moscow about life in Russia during and after the Bolshevik Revolution, where he observed the harshness of living conditions. While in Russia, he also visited Leo Tolstoy's home at Yasnaya Polyana with Tolstoy's granddaughter Sofya, saw Lenin addressing a group of delegates, heard Feodor Chaliapin sing Alexander Pushkin's poems set to music, and witnessed Pyotr Kropotkin's funeral.\n\nIn January 1923, Qu accepted the invitation from Chen Duxiu, leader of the Communist Party of China at that time, to come back from Russia to join in his cause. After returning, Qu was responsible for the propaganda work of Communist Party of China. In 1927 after the fall of Chen Duxiu, he became acting Chairman of the Chinese Politburo and the de facto leader of the party. He organised actions such as the Guangzhou Uprising of December 11, 1927. In April 1928, Qu went to Moscow once again and worked as a delegate of the Chinese Communist Party for two years. In 1930, after being dismissed as Chinese Communist Party representative in Russia, Qu returned to China only to be also dismissed from the central leadership. This was all due to an intense argument over how the revolution should be carried out. Following his dismissal, Qu worked both as a writer and a translator in Shanghai, fought literary battles along with Mao Dun and Lu Xun and forged a profound friendship with leaders of the left-wing cultural movement.\n\nIn 1934, the situation became increasingly dangerous and Qu could not stay in Shanghai any longer, so he went to the Communists' Central Revolutionary Base Area in Ruijin, Jiangxi province. When the Red Army began the famous Long March, Qu stayed in the south to lead the bush fighting. Arrested in Changting, Fujian in 1934, Qu was sentenced to death by Kuomintang a year later. During his arrest, Qu was tortured by the KMT government, who adopted various means to induce him to capitulate, but he was persistent in his beliefs and refused. On 18 June 1935, Qu walked calmly toward the execution place, Zhongshan Park in Changting, singing \"The Internationale\", the \"Red Army Song\", and shouting \"Long live the Chinese Communist Party\", \"Long live communism\" and other slogans. After reaching Luohanling, a small hill in Zhongshan Park, Qu chose a place to sit down on the grass, smiled and nodded to the executioner, saying \"very good here!\". Qu was only 36 when he was shot dead.\n\nDuring his arrest, Qu wrote a book named \"Superfluous Words\" to express his political thinking and traced his change from a literatus to a revolutionist. The book stirred a controversy after his death.\n\nQu was heavily criticised as a \"renegade\" during the Cultural Revolution. However, the Central Committee absolved him in 1980 and today he is held in very high regard by the Chinese Communist Party. A Qu Qiubai museum stands in his native town of Changzhou. Tsi-an Hsia () describes Qu in \"The Gate of Darkness: Studies on the Leftist Literary Movement in China\" (published 1968) as \"the tenderhearted Communist\". Qu and a Russian counterpart, V.S. Kolokolov, were responsible for the early development of the Sin Wenz system of Mandarin romanization. Qu also translated The Internationale into Chinese, with his version recognised as the official one and used as the anthem of the Communist Party of China. Qu was one of the major Chinese intellectuals to emerge from the May 4th Movement, and one of early Communist Party members who established the spirit of the revolutionary movement in China. He is also widely remembered as an emotive poet.\n"}
{"id": "2072633", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2072633", "title": "Merle Allin", "text": "Merle Allin\n\nMerle Colby Allin, Jr. (born September 1, 1953) is an American professional bassist. He is the elder brother of the late punk rock singer/songwriter GG Allin.\n\nAllin played bass for three main groups that featured GG Allin: Malpractice, The AIDS Brigade and The Murder Junkies. He currently continues the Murder Junkies, his brother's last backing band, with original drummer Donald (\"Dino Sex\") Sachs, and a varying line-up of younger members.\n\nAllin is featured extensively in the documentary film \"\", by future Road Trip and \"The Hangover\" director Todd Phillips.\n\nAllin was also bass player in late 70's Boston punk group Thrills (a.k.a. City Thrills), who released several singles and were the subject of a later CD discography. He subsequently joined the band Cheater Slicks, and played bass guitar on their debut album \"On Your Knees\".\n\nIn 2016, director Sami Saif began working on a documentary film depicting the lives of Merle Allin and his mother Arleta – subsequent to the demise of their famous relative GG. The film, titled \"GG Allin: All in the Family\", debuted on Showtime on December 13, 2018.\n"}
{"id": "2072637", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2072637", "title": "2006 WTA Tour", "text": "2006 WTA Tour\n\nThe 2006 Sony Ericsson WTA Tour was the 36th season since the founding of the Women's Tennis Association. It commenced on January 2, 2006, and concluded on November 12, 2006 after 61 events.\n\nJustine Henin-Hardenne came out as the winner in a historic three-way battle for the No. 1 ranking at the season-ending WTA Tour Championships, beating out Sharapova and Mauresmo. The Belgian successfully defended her French Open title for her fifth Grand Slam title, and became the first woman since Steffi Graf in 1993 to reach the finals of all four Grand Slams and the WTA Tour Championships. Maria Sharapova won her second Grand Slam title at the U.S. Open, to add to her Wimbledon trophy from 2004. Amélie Mauresmo won her maiden Grand Slam at the Australian Open after a controversial retirement from Henin-Hardenne in the final. However, she later backed it up by winning a rematch with Henin-Hardenne in the Wimbledon final. She was the number one player in the world from March until the final event of the season.\n\nMartina Hingis also made a successful return to the Tour, beginning her comeback at the Gold Coast event in January. She finished the season at No. 6 in the world and won the Tier I title at the Internazionali BNL d'Italia in Rome.\n\nShortly before the beginning of the season former No. 1 Martina Hingis announced that she would return full-time to the tour for the start of the 2006 season, having already made an unsuccessful comeback attempt at an event in 2005.\nAmélie Mauresmo won her first Grand Slam title at the Australian Open after years of questions about her nerves and mental strength. However, her victory was marred by Henin-Hardenne's controversial retirement in the final due to stomach cramps. Defending champion Serena Williams lost in the third round to Daniela Hantuchová, with some commenting on the \"extra weight\" that she was carrying. The loss was the beginning of a season of injury struggles for the American, which saw her at one point drop out of the top 100. In the doubles tournament, Yan Zi and Zheng Jie produced a historic win for Chinese tennis by becoming the first players to win a Grand Slam of any kind for the nation. Martina Hingis won her first mixed doubles title with Mahesh Bhupathi.\n\nFollowing the Australian Open Kim Clijsters ascended to the No. 1 position after Lindsay Davenport lost her finalist points. She held it until March when she lost her Indian Wells champion points, allowing Mauresmo to return to the position. The Frenchwoman held it until the final event of the season. Mauresmo had continued her strong start to the season with titles in Paris and Antwerp. Elena Dementieva won her biggest career title to that point in Tokyo. Meanwhile, Henin-Hardenne and Nadia Petrova won the Middle Eastern events in Dubai and Doha.\n\nMaria Sharapova picked up her first title of the season in Indian Wells, beating Dementieva in the final. Svetlana Kuznetsova then won in Miami, her first Tier I title and second biggest overall, after a difficult 2005 season where she failed to back up her breakthrough in 2004 and dropped out the top 10.\n\nThe clay court season saw Hingis win in Rome for the biggest title of her comeback, but overall the period was dominated by Nadia Petrova, who went on an impressive 15-match winning streak, leading to titles in Amelia Island, Charleston and Berlin, beating Henin-Hardenne in the final of the latter. Her streak led to her being considered the favourite for the French Open title, but she suffered an injury and thus bowed out in the first round. Henin-Hardenne eventually defended her title and won her fifth Grand Slam by beating Kuznetsova in the final. Czech teenager Nicole Vaidišová made headlines by reaching her first Grand Slam semifinal with victories over Amélie Mauresmo and Venus Williams. The doubles event was won by Lisa Raymond and Samantha Stosur, while Katarina Srebotnik took home the mixed doubles trophy with Nenad Zimonjić.\n\nThe third Grand Slam of the year at Wimbledon saw all top four seeds reach the semifinals for only the fifth time in 25 years. Mauresmo and Henin advanced to the final, a rematch of their Australian Open final earlier in the season, with Mauresmo triumphant once more, becoming the first Frenchwoman in 81 years to win Wimbledon. Defending champion Venus Williams fell to Jelena Janković, making this year the first since 1999 neither Williams sister featured in the Wimbledon women's singles final. Williams did however make the mixed doubles final, losing to Vera Zvonareva who won her second Grand Slam in mixed doubles, partnering Bob Bryan. Yan Zi and Zheng Jie also won their second Grand Slam titles in the women's doubles event.\nSerena Williams, Mary Pierce, Lindsay Davenport and Nadia Petrova all returned from injuries during the summer hardcourt season. Clijsters won her fourth Stanford title, before losing to Sharapova in the final of San Diego—the Russian's first ever victory over Clijsters. Dementieva won the title in Los Angeles, beating Janković in the final. Janković's compatriot Ana Ivanovic went one further the next week in Montréal, and by winning the event over Hingis she became the U.S. Open Series champion for that year. Sharapova eventually picked up the grand prize, taking the U.S. Open title over Henin-Hardenne in the final. Janković backed up her strong result in Los Angeles with her first Grand Slam semifinal. In the doubles tournament Nathalie Dechy and Vera Zvonareva won the title in only their fourth tournament as a team. Tennis legend Martina Navratilova won the mixed doubles title and then announced her retirement from professional tennis.\n\nSharapova continued her strong results following her U.S. Open title in the fall season, winning events in Zurich and Linz. Nadia Petrova won her fifth title of the season in Stuttgart, but lost to the Russian teenager Anna Chakvetadze in the Moscow final. Kuznetsova also enjoyed a successful fall, winning titles in Bali and Beijing, beating Mauresmo in the final of the latter. Kim Clijsters returned at the end of the season, having missed her title defence at the U.S. Open, and won the smaller event in Hasselt.\n\nThe season climaxed at the WTA Tour Championships with Mauresmo, Sharapova, Henin-Hardenne, Kuznetsova, Petrova, Clijsters, Dementieva and Hingis all qualifying for the event. The tournament saw a three-way battle for the No. 1 position between Mauresmo, Sharapova and Henin-Hardenne, which was eventually decided when Henin-Hardenne beat Sharapova in the semifinal. The Belgian went on to defeat Mauresmo in the final. In the doubles event French Open champions Lisa Raymond and Samantha Stosur triumphed, consolidating their position as the year-end No. 1 in women's doubles.\n\nThe table below shows the 2006 WTA Tour schedule.\n\n\nList of players and titles won, last name alphabetically:\n\nThe following players won their first title:\n\nTitles won by nation:\n\nBelow are the 2006 WTA year-end rankings in both singles and doubles competition:\n\n"}
{"id": "2072649", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2072649", "title": "Femoral vein", "text": "Femoral vein\n\nIn the human body, the femoral vein is a blood vessel that accompanies the femoral artery in the femoral sheath. It begins at the adductor hiatus (an opening in the adductor magnus muscle) and is a continuation of the popliteal vein. It ends at the inferior margin of the inguinal ligament, where it becomes the external iliac vein. The femoral vein bears valves which are mostly bicuspid and whose number is variable between individuals and often between left and right leg.\n\n\nSeveral large veins drain into the femoral vein:\n\nOcclusion of the femoral vein can be life-threatening due to its size. For example, deep vein thrombosis of the femoral vein can cause pulmonary embolism, with a higher risk when being more proximal to the subsartorial vein. The femoral vein is often used to place central venous lines.\n\nThe practice of delivering recreational drugs intravenously using the femoral vein is relatively common amongst injecting drug users (IDUs).\n\n"}
{"id": "2072659", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2072659", "title": "Queenston Delta", "text": "Queenston Delta\n\nThe Queenston Delta is a 300-mile-wide clastic wedge of sediment deposited over what is now eastern North America during the late Ordovician period due to the erosion of mountains created during the Taconic orogeny. The wedge is thickest in a band running from New York State to Quebec and extends from the Catskill mountains to Lake Huron.\n\n"}
{"id": "2072670", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2072670", "title": "Home sign", "text": "Home sign\n\nHome sign (or kitchen sign) is a gestural communication system, often invented spontaneously by a deaf child who lacks accessible linguistic input. Home sign systems often arise in families where a deaf child is raised by hearing parents and is isolated from the Deaf community. Because the deaf child does not receive signed or spoken language input, these children are referred to as linguistic isolates .\n\nBecause home sign systems are used regularly as the child's form of communication, they develop to become more complex than simple gestures. Though not considered to be a complete language, these systems may be classified as linguistic phenomena that show similar characteristics to signed and spoken language. Home sign systems display significant degrees of internal complexity, using gestures with consistent meanings, word order, and grammatical categories. Linguists have been interested in home sign systems as insight into the human ability to generate, acquire, and process language.\n\nIn 1987, Nancy Frishberg set out a framework for identifying and describing home-based sign systems. She states that home signs differ from sign languages in that they:\n\n\nHowever, there are certain \"resilient\" properties of language whose development can proceed without guidance of a conventional language model. More recent studies of deaf children's gestural systems show systematicity and productivity. Across users, these systems tend to exhibit a stable lexicon, word order tendency, complex sentence usage, and noun-verb pairs. Gesture systems have also been shown to have the property of recursion, which allows system to be generative. Deaf children may borrow spoken language gestures, but these gestures are altered to serve as linguistic markers. As the child develops, their utterances grow in size and complexity. Adult home signers use systems that mature to display more linguistic features than the simpler systems used by child home signers.\n\nStudies of home signing children and adults show consistent pairing between the form of a gesture token and its meaning. These signs are also combined in compound gestures to create new words. The lack of bidirectionality in creation of home sign systems between the parent and child restricts the invention of signs with arbitrary meanings. The emergence of a conventionalized lexicon proceeds slower in a home sign system than in natural languages with a richer social network. Study of adult home signers in Nicaragua show that home signers use gesture to communicate about number, with cardinal number and non-cardinal number markings.\n\nHome sign systems have simple morphology. Gestures are composed of parts with a limited set of handshape forms. Hand shapes can be used in two ways: to represent a hand as it manipulates an object, or to represent the object itself. Morphophonological patterns in handshape production are more similar to conventionalized sign language handshapes than hearing individuals’ gestures. These handshapes are high in finger complexity for object handshapes and low in finger complexity for handling handshapes. Home signers also use handshape as a productive morphological marker in predicates, displaying a distinction between nominals and predicates. Study of adolescent home signers show ability to express motion events, though this strategy differs from conventional sign language. The motions of signs used in home sign systems can vary in length of path and directionality. Most of the hand shape morphemes could be found in combination with more than one motion morpheme, and vice versa.\n\nWithin an individual system, home signers show consistency in a particular word order that distinguishes the subject of the utterance. Across home sign systems there is preference for action to be utterance-final. Structural dependency, words grouped based on a hierarchical structure or pattern, has been studied in Brazilian home signers who consistently produce modifiers with the noun modified. Gestural markers for negation (side to side head shake) and \"wh\"-form questions (manual flip) show consistent meaning, use, and position. Home signers mark grammatical subjects in sentences and are able to distinguish the subject from the topic of the sentence These systems show some evidence of a prosodic system for marking phrase and utterance boundaries.\n\nHome signing children vary greatly in how often they display narrative skills; however, their narratives show similar structural patterns. This includes elaborating on basic narrative by including setting, actions, a complication, and temporal order. Hearing mothers produce co-narration with deaf children less frequently (than hearing mothers do with hearing children), and these contributions are spoken and rarely gestural.\n\nThe context of home sign system creation includes limited or no exposure to a spoken or signed language model, isolation from Deaf children and adult, and parental choices regarding communication with the deaf child. Home sign creation is a common experience of deaf children in hearing families, as approximately 75% of hearing parents do not sign and communicate with their deaf children using a small set of gestures, speaking, and lipreading. In a home with parents who are Deaf or know sign language, a child can pick up the sign language in the same way a hearing child can pick up spoken language.\n\nHome signs are a starting point for many sign languages. When a group of deaf people come together without a common sign language, they may share features of their individual home sign systems creating a village sign language that may establish itself as a complete language over time. However, home signs are rarely passed on to more than one generation, because they generally fade when the deaf child is exposed to language outside of the home.\n\nDeaf children who use home sign are distinguished from feral children who are deprived of meaningful social and linguistic interaction. Home signing children are socially integrated to an extent with lack of conventional linguistic interaction. Home sign systems have some elements of language, and children who use these systems are able to acquire a natural sign language later in school.\n\nThe deaf child is the creator of a home sign system. Mothers of adult home signers in Nicaragua were evaluated to determine their role in the development of their child's home sign system. The results of this study concluded that mothers comprehended spoken Spanish descriptions of events better than home sign descriptions, and native ASL signers performed better than mothers at understanding home sign productions. This suggests that mothers do not directly transmit home sign systems to their deaf children. Though caregivers' co-speech gestures may serve as an initial foundation for their child's home sign system, children surpass this input. Hearing caregivers typically do not share the same gestural communication system with the deaf child, using fewer gestures with less consistency and displaying different sentence-level patterns. A deaf child's gestural system is more likely to overlap with that of another home signer, including cross culturally.\n\nSocial network structure influences the development of a home sign system, impacting the conventionalization of referring expressions among members. Richly connected networks, where all participants interact with one another using the communication system, show greater and faster conventionalization. Home sign systems are typically sparsely connected networks, where the home signer communicates with each member of the network but the members do not use home sign to communicate with each other.\n\nRecent studies by Deanna Gagne and Marie Coppola of perspective taking abilities in adult home signers, reveal that home signers do not pass experimental false belief tasks despite having visual observation of social interaction. False belief understanding, integral to the development of theory of mind, requires language experience and linguistic input. Further study of these adult home signers indicates that home signers show precursor abilities for theory of mind, such as visual perspective taking. \n\nLack of conventional language for numbers has been shown to affect numerical ability. In comparison to unschooled hearing and signing deaf individuals, adult home signers do not consistently produce gestures that accurately represent cardinal values of larger sets and do not exhibit effective use of finger counting strategies. Further study indicates home signers are able to recall gestures used as nouns, verbs, and adjectives, but they show poor number recall, which worsens as number increases. \n\nSyntactic structure is similar between groups of home signers in different cultures and geographical regions, including word order preferences and complex sentence usage. For example, home sign systems of children in Turkey and America exhibit similar patterns in sentence-level structure.\n\nCertain gestures, such as pointing, head shaking, and shrugging, share similar meanings throughout cultures. Young children shake their heads to indicate negation before they express negative meanings through language. However, most young children use the head shake as an initial marker of negation, and replace it with speech or manual signs once language is acquired. Children using a home sign system don't have exposure to a structured language, and therefore don't replace the head shake with manual signs until language is acquired.\n\nHome sign systems differ across cultures in terms of gesture use by hearing caregivers. Compared to American mothers, Chinese mothers show more similarity in gesture form (handshape and motion) and syntax with systems used by their deaf children. In comparing narratives from Chinese and American deaf children, home signing children produce culturally appropriate narratives. Variability between home signers are group internal, with different individual home signers having their own set of gestures for the same type of object or predicate.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2072671", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2072671", "title": "Mascha Kaléko", "text": "Mascha Kaléko\n\nMascha Kaléko (born Golda Malka Aufen; June 7, 1907 – January 21, 1975) was a Jewish German language poet.\n\nHer family moved from Galicia to Germany after World War I.\n\nIn 1928 she married the Hebrew teacher Saul Aaron Kaléko. From 1929 on, she published poetry presenting the daily life of the common people in the newspapers \"Vossische Zeitung\" and \"Berliner Tageblatt\". In her poetry that was positively reviewed by Thomas Mann, Hermann Hesse and Alfred Polgar she captures the atmosphere of Berlin in the 1930s. She attained fame and frequented places like the \"Romanisches Café\", where the literary world met, among them Erich Kästner and Kurt Tucholsky.\n\nIn January 1933, Rowohlt published her first book with poetry \"Lyrisches Stenogrammheft\", which was soon subjected to Nazi censorship, and two years later her second book \"Das kleine Lesebuch für Grosse\" appeared, also with the publisher Rowohlt. In 1938, she managed to emigrate to the United States with her second husband, the composer Chemjo Vinaver, and their one-year-old son Steven,\nwho became a talented writer and theatre personality in adult life. Steven fell ill with pancreatitis while directing a play in Massachusetts, and died at the age of 31.\n\nWhile in the US, Mascha lived at several places (New York City and a few months in California) until settling on Minetta Street in New York City's Greenwich Village in 1942. Her fifth floor walkup apartment Minetta Street was a safe haven she always remembered fondly. \nMascha became the family's breadwinner with odd jobs, including some writing copy for advertisements. The family's hope of a possible career for Chemjo in the film industry was crushed, and they returned to New York after a brief stint in Hollywood.\nThe Schoenhof Verlag in Cambridge, MA published Kaléko's third book \"Verse für Zeitgenossen\" in 1945 (German edition in 1958 by Rowohlt Verlag).\n\nIn 1956, Kaléko returned to Berlin for the first time. Three years later she was supposed to receive the Fontane prize, which she declined since it would have been handed over by a former Nazi official.\n\nIn 1959, she moved to Jerusalem, Israel, since her husband, who was conducting research on Hassidic singing, had better working conditions there. Mascha lacked knowledge of Hebrew and was thus somewhat isolated.\n\nKaléko died in January 1975 in Zürich where she fell ill en route back to Jerusalem from a final visit in Berlin. She is buried on the Jewish cemetery \"Israelitischer Friedhof Oberer Friesenberg\".\n\nSome of her poems were published posthumously, including \"Sozusagen grundlos vergnügt\", in 1977 in the collection \"In meinen Träumen läutet es Sturm\" (In my dreams, a storm is brewing). edited by , to whom Kaléko had entrusted her unpublished writings.\n\nHer work has been compared to that of Erich Kästner and Joachim Ringelnatz, among others, but her poetic voice is unique and memorable in different ways than those of her (mostly male) contemporaries.\n\nVarious attempts have been made to translate individual poems into English. In March 2010, for the first time, a representative number of Kaléko's poems appeared in English translation in the book \"'No matter where I travel, I come to Nowhereland' - The poetry of Mascha Kaléko\" (The University of Vermont, 2010, 112 pages). The author, Andreas Nolte, has selected poems from every phase of the poet's life. His translations follow the original German texts as closely as possible in order to maintain the kalékoesque content, diction, rhythm, and rhyme. Brief introductions provide additional information on Kaléko's remarkable biography.\n\nFrom the poem \"Mein schönstes Gedicht\"\n\nFrom the poem \"Was man so braucht\" (translations: Andreas Nolte):\n\nThe poem \"Pihi\":\n (1971)\n\nPublished posthumously:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2072672", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2072672", "title": "Beyond Good and Evil (album)", "text": "Beyond Good and Evil (album)\n\nBeyond Good and Evil is the seventh studio album by English rock band The Cult. Released in 2001, it marked their first new recording in six and a half years. The record debuted at #37 on the charts in the United States, #22 in Canada, #25 in Spain.\n\nOnly one single, \"Rise\", was officially released and had a music video. The songs \"Breathe\" and \"True Believers\" were released as promotional singles but not as official singles.\n\nThis album also marked the return of Matt Sorum as The Cult's drummer. Although Sorum had previously toured with the band on the Sonic Temple tour in 1989 and 1990, this was the first time that he had recorded a studio album with the band.\n\nThe title of the record is a reference to Friedrich Nietzsche's 1886 book of the same title, and it briefly had the mock working title of \"Bring Me the Head of Dave Grohl\", referencing the frontman of Foo Fighters, and also the former drummer of Nirvana. In 2006, singer Ian Astbury claimed via the band's website that his preferred choice for the record's title was \"Demon Process\".\n\n\"My Bridges Burn\" was originally titled \"Save Me\"; \"Breathe\" originally had the slightly longer title \"Breathe (You Bastard)\" along with an overdub of keyboards after the guitar solo which was later removed; and \"Speed of Light\" went through several different titles: originally titled \"Black California\", then \"Who Plays the Devil\" before the band decided on its final title.\n\nThere are several CD acetates of early recordings of the songs later featured on \"Beyond Good and Evil\". A CD-R of demo versions of the songs leaked out, unofficially referred to as \"Unmixed, Unmastered, Unsequenced\", and a bootleg CD-R of later, but still unfinished versions of the songs are also in circulation.\n\nAll songs written by Ian Astbury and Billy Duffy, except where noted.\n\nDifferent bonus tracks were added in certain regions:\n\n13. \"Libertine\" (Bonus track - in Australia and Japan)\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2072685", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2072685", "title": "Ayotha Amirtha Gangai", "text": "Ayotha Amirtha Gangai\n\nThe Ayotha Amirtha Gangai is a mythical river found in the text Akilathirattu Ammanai, the source of Ayyavazhi mythology. Ayotha Amirtha Gangai was located in Ayotha Amirtha Vanam, the place where Thirumal, through the instrumentality of the Seven Virgins, gave birth to the Santror Makkal. The land is surrounded by Sri Rangam in the north, Mount Thirikonam in the south, Puttaapuram in the east and Poonkavu in the west.\n\n"}
{"id": "2072688", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2072688", "title": "Jane Bunnett", "text": "Jane Bunnett\n\nMary Jane Bunnett, (born October 22, 1956) is a Canadian musician and educator. A soprano saxophonist, flautist and bandleader, she is especially known for performing Afro-Cuban jazz. She travels regularly to Cuba to perform with Cuban musicians.\n\nShe changed her instruments, from pursuing her career \"as a classical pianist...at age 20 to jazz and to flute and soprano saxophone.\"\n\nBunnett founded and leads an all-female Afro-Cuban/jazz group, Maqueque. Its other members are: Dánae Olano (vocals, piano), Yissy Garcia (drums), Magdelys Savigne (vocals, batá drums, congas); Elizabeth Rodriguez (vocals, violin), and Celia Jiménez (vocals, bass). The group has won one Juno Award (Best Group Jazz Album of the Year in 2014 for its debut CD) and garnered two Grammy nominations, while Bunnett herself has won four additional Juno Awards.\n\nIn 2004, Bunnett was appointed an Officer of the Order of Canada, the highest civilian honour given in this country, granted to Canadian citizens 'for outstanding achievement and service to the country or to humanity at large.'\n\nBunnett is married to another musician, trumpeter Larry Cramer. They reside in Toronto but have traveled to Cuba for musical collaborations for more than 30 years.\n\nBunnett is also a social activist.\n\n"}
{"id": "2072690", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2072690", "title": "Josif Rajačić", "text": "Josif Rajačić\n\nJosif Rajačić (20 July 1785 – 1 December 1861; , also known as ) was a metropolitan of Sremski Karlovci, Serbian Patriarch, administrator of Serbian Vojvodina and baron.\n\nRajačić was born in Lučani, a former village near Brinje in Lika (then Habsburg Monarchy, today Croatia). He studied in Zagreb, Karlovci, Szeged and Vienna before dropping out to join the army in 1809 during the War of the Fifth Coalition. On 10 April 1810, he became a monk of the Serbian Orthodox Church in Gomirje Monastery.\n\nOn 24 June 1829 he became the Eparch of Dalmatia. On 5 July 1833 he became the Eparch of Vršac. In August 1842, he was named the Metropolitan of Karlovci.\n\nAt the May Assembly of Serbs in Sremski Karlovci in 1848, from the balcony of the Sremski Karlovci town hall, he was appointed Patriarch of the Serbs, while Stevan Šupljikac was chosen as the first Duke (Voivode) of Serbian Vojvodina. Apart from being a spiritual leader, Rajačić shared political and military leadership of Serbs at the time of war.\nHe became administrator of Serbian Vojvodina, and was head of the new Serb government (\"praviteljstvo\") of Vojvodina. Rajačić formed an alliance with the House of Habsburg after being promised autonomy for opposing the 1848 Hungarian Revolution. After the Hungarians were defeated, Rajačić was nominated civil commissioner of Vojvodina by the Austrian Empire.\n\nRajačić assisted the educational development of the Serb people in the Austrian Empire. In the time when he was metropolitan of Sremski Karlovci, many new Serbian schools were opened. He opened the Patriarchal Library and Print Works. Rajačić spent much of his energy attempting to bring Vojvodina under Serbian administration. On 5 June 1848, on the day of Josip Jelačić's inauguration as Ban of Croatia, Jelačić was appointed Ban in the Patriarch's presence due to Juraj Haulik's current absence from Zagreb.\n\nHe was decorated Order of Leopold and Order of the Iron Crown of the first class.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2072697", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2072697", "title": "Stevan Šupljikac", "text": "Stevan Šupljikac\n\nStevan Šupljikac, known simply as Vojvoda Šupljikac (; 1786 – 15 December 1848;) was a \"voivode\" (military commander) and the first Voivode of the Serbian Vojvodina, in 1848.\n\nHe was born in Petrinja, in 1786. He had a brother Jovan who was also a fighter, and a sister Anka who later married Gabriel Miletić.\n\nHe entered the Austrian army in 1805, subsequently becoming a general. Between 1806 and 1814 he was officer of the Imperial French army. During the Russian Campaign of 1812, he was awarded with the Légion d'honneur. In 1814, he again served as officer in the Austrian army, as a commander of the Ogulin regiment at Banat and Lika. He then was brigade commander under Joseph Radetzky von Radetz, after which he was awarded with the Great Cross of the Iron Crown. In 1848 he took part in the suppression of Italian rebels in the Unification of Italy.\n\nAs part of the Revolutions of 1848, the Serbs under Austria-Hungary demanded what they had in the previous century; recognition of Serbian as official language, equality of the Orthodox church as with Catholics, and annual church assembly gatherings. They met at Sremski Karlovci and Novi Sad. Several thousand Serbs met at the May Assembly in Sremski Karlovci on 1 May 1848. The delegates chose Šupljikac as \"voivode\", the civil and military commander. Josif Rajačić was elected the patriarch of the Serbs. The Serbs demanded a national unit consisting of Banat, Backa, Baranja and part of Srem, known collectively as \"Vojvodina\".\n\nDuring the revolutions, there was much fighting in Vojvodina, in June, Hungarian and Serbian bands began fighting. General Stratimirović, head of the main committee, on 10 May, urged Prince Aleksandar for assistance and asked Stevan Knićanin, a commissioner, to intercede. Knićanin was elected military commander. In June and July a large wave of volunteers from the Principality entered Vojvodina, Knićanin arrived at 25 July.\n\nHungarians were not positive to the Serbs at this time, but support came from Vienna – the new emperor Franz Joseph approved the establishment of the Serbian Vojvodina, with Šupljikac as \"Duke\". He became the supreme military commander of the Serbian national troops on 6 October. He died on 15 December, at Pančevo, he was buried in the Krušedol Monastery.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2072707", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2072707", "title": "Latina, Lazio", "text": "Latina, Lazio\n\nLatina () is the capital of the province of Latina in the Lazio region, in central Italy. , the city has 115,895 inhabitants and is the second-largest city of the region, after the national capital Rome. It was founded in 1932 under the fascist administration, as Littoria, when the area surrounding it which had been a swamp since antiquity was drained.\n\nAlthough the area was first settled by the Latins, the modern city was founded by Benito Mussolini on 30 June 1932 as Littoria, named for the fascio littorio. The city was inaugurated on 18 December of the same year. Littoria was populated with settlers coming mainly from Friuli and Veneto, who formed the so-called Venetian-Pontine community (today surviving only in some peripheral boroughs). The edifices and the monuments, mainly in rationalist style, were designed by famous architects and artists such as Marcello Piacentini, Angiolo Mazzoni and Duilio Cambellotti.\n\nIn 1934 it became a provincial capital and, after World War II, renamed Latina in 1946. With the arrival of other people mostly from Lazio itself, the original Venetian-like dialect was increasingly substituted by a form of Romanesco dialect.\n\nThe city coat of arms is a blue shield with a stylized drawing of the City Hall Clock Tower in the middle, standing on a field of green, and flanked by two stalks of wheat tied at the base with a red ribbon engraved with the motto \"\"LATINA OLIM PALUS\"\" (\"Latina, once a swamp\") in Latin. The shield is surmounted by a mural crown.\n\nThe city has some pharmaceutical, chemical industry and a strong service sector. Latina is also an important centre for agriculture (vegetables, flowers, sugar, fruit, cheese and derivates).\n\nThe former Latina nuclear power plant has been shut down and is currently undergoing decommissioning.\n\nThe frazioni of Latina are: Latina Lido, Latina Scalo, Borgo Bainsizza, Borgo Carso, Borgo Faiti, Borgo Grappa, Borgo Isonzo, Borgo Montello, Borgo Piave, Borgo Podgora, Borgo Sabotino, Borgo Santa Maria, Borgo San Michele, Chiesuola, and Tor Tre Ponti.\n\nLatina is located in the Province of Latina, part of the southern section of the region of Lazio. The city is about south of Rome The municipality borders on Aprilia, Cisterna di Latina, Nettuno, Pontinia, Sabaudia, Sermoneta and Sezze.\n\nLatina has a Mediterranean climate (Köppen climate classification \"Csa\") like most of southern Italy.\nThe Italian film \"My Brother Is an Only Child\" is set in Latina.\n\n\nLatina is twinned with:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2072716", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2072716", "title": "Steffen Iversen", "text": "Steffen Iversen\n\nSteffen Iversen (born 10 November 1976) is a Norwegian footballer who is currently player-manager for Norwegian 4th division side Trygg/Lade as a striker. He is the son of former Norway international Odd Iversen, one of Norway's most prolific goalscorers of all time.\n\nIversen began his career as an 18-year-old at Rosenborg where he won two consecutive Norwegian league championships. He moved to Tottenham Hotspur in December 1996, where he scored 64 goals in seven years, and won the League Cup. After a brief spell at Wolverhampton Wanderers, he moved back to his native Norway where he spent two years at Vålerenga and was a contributing factor to Vålerenga's first league championship in 21 years. In 2006, he moved back to Rosenborg, where he won his second consecutive league title, and after another league victory in 2010, Iversen spent 13 months at Crystal Palace, before he signed for Rosenborg for the third time in February 2012.\n\nIversen was capped 79 times for the national team, scoring 21 goals. He scored Norway's only goal in a UEFA European Football Championship when he scored the match-winning goal against Spain in the group stage of UEFA Euro 2000.\n\nSteffen Iversen was born in Oslo, when his father, Odd Iversen, was playing for Vålerenga. His family moved back to Trondheim when he was three years old, and the first club that Iversen played for was his father's club Rosenborg. He signed for Nationalkameratene at the age of seven, and the contract, dated 16 February 1984, included a clause that stated that Steffen Iversen any time could move back to Rosenborg free of charge, and was signed by his father. He later moved on to Astor before he joined Rosenborg's youth department in 1994, where he scored six goals in his debut for the reserve team.\n\nHe joined Rosenborg's first team squad in 1995, and made his debut in the first match of the season against Kongsvinger at Lerkendal on 21 April 1995. During the two season he first played at Rosenborg, he scored 18 goals in 50 matches, won two consecutive league championship and played in the Champions League. His last match in his first period for Rosenborg was the famous win against Milan at San Siro.\n\nIn December 1996, he joined Tottenham Hotspur for a fee of £2.3 million, and made his Premier League debut against Coventry City, four days after his last match for Rosenborg. He spent seven years at White Hart Lane – collecting a League Cup winners' medal in 1999, assisting Allan Nielsen's stoppage time winner. He also scored the winning goal in the semi-final against Wimbledon. He became the top scorer for the club in the 1998–99 and 1999–2000 season with 13 and 17 goals respectively. Ahead of the 2003–04 season, he signed a one-year contract with Wolverhampton Wanderers, after a long time with injury problems.\n\nIn 2004, he moved back to Norway to play for Vålerenga where he played a crucial role during the 2005 season and won his third Tippeligaen, ten years after his first. His contract ended on 31 October 2005, and for months he was a free agent. Rumours abounded of several clubs showing their interest, including Mallorca, Everton and his previous club Vålerenga. On 10 February 2006 it was, a bit surprisingly, announced that he wanted to return to his old club Rosenborg, where his joining was officially announced on 13 February 2006. In Rosenborg Iversen was the star player and Rosenborg's topscorer (18 goals) of the 2006/07 season and helped his team win the title, Iversen's fourth medal.\n\nWhen the transfer market was about to open again in the winter, the Belgian club K.R.C. Genk showed a great interest to buy him. A clause in his contract allowed him to leave the club if the new deal was signed before new year. After a lot of speculations and rumors, Iversen announced that he was staying in Rosenborg to Genk's dismay and disappointment.\n\nHe was linked to a number of English Championship clubs in the summer of 2010; including Crystal Palace, Norwich City and Ipswich Town, before provisionally signing for Crystal Palace on 1 January 2011. In his debut match for Crystal Palace, he scored against Preston after 58 minutes, giving Palace their first win in five matches. He scored two goals in 19 matches during the 13 months he played for the Eagles, before he was released by the club on 31 January 2012.\n\nIversen joined Rosenborg for the third time in his career on 15 February 2012. He signed a performance-based one-year contract, with an option for one more year, and stated that he had returned to win the league. In November 2012 he decided to retire from football.\n\nIversen was a regular for the Norway U-21 and was a major contributor for the team that earned a third place in the 1998 UEFA U-21 Championship, by scoring Norway's all three goals during the championship, including two goals in the third-place match against Netherlands U-21. In total, he played 23 matches for the U-21 team, and scored 17 goals, a record.\n\nLater the same year, he made his debut for the senior team in the UEFA Euro 2000 qualifier against Albania. He scored his first international goal on 20 May 1999 in the friendly match against Jamaica, a game Norway won 6–0.\n\nIn Norway's first match in a UEFA European Championship, Iversen scored the match-winning goal against Spain with a header. Iversen's goal is still Norway's only goal in a UEFA European Football Championship.\n\nIversen played regularly for the national team, until he in August 2008 overslept to a meeting with the squad that was to play a friendly match against Republic of Ireland on 20 August 2008 and was sent home by the national team coach Åge Hareide. Nevertheless, Iversen was called up for the next squad for the 2010 FIFA World Cup qualifier against Iceland where he scored Norway's two goals.\n\nThe UEFA Euro 2012 qualifier match against Denmark on 26 March 2011 was to be his last match for Norway. In total he achieved 79 caps – scoring 21 goals.\n\nHis agent while at Tottenham and Wolves was Christian Eidem.\n\nRosenborg\n\nTottenham Hotspur\n\nVålerenga\n\n"}
{"id": "2072717", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2072717", "title": "Institute of Psychiatry, Psychology and Neuroscience", "text": "Institute of Psychiatry, Psychology and Neuroscience\n\nThe Institute of Psychiatry, Psychology and Neuroscience (IoPPN) is a research institution dedicated to discovering what causes mental illness and diseases of the brain. In addition, its aim is to help identify new treatments for them and ways to prevent them in the first place. The IoPPN is a school of King's College London, England, previously known as the Institute of Psychiatry (IoP).\n\nThe Institute works closely with South London and Maudsley NHS Foundation Trust. Many senior academic staff also work as honorary consultants for the Trust in clinical services such as the National Psychosis Unit at Bethlem Royal Hospital.\n\nThe impact of the Institute's work was judged to be 100% 'world-leading' or 'internationally-excellent' in the Research Excellence Framework (REF 2014). The research environment of the Institute was also rated 100% 'world-leading'. King's College London was rated the second for research in Psychology, Psychiatry and Neuroscience in REF 2014. According to the 2016 \"US News Ranking\", King's College London was ranked second in the world in Psychiatry and Psychology.\n\nThe IoPPN shares a great deal of its history with the Maudsley Hospital, with which it shares the location of its main building. It was part of the original plans of Frederick Mott and Henry Maudsley—inspired by the Munich institute of Emil Kraepelin—that the hospital would include facilities for teaching and research in 1896. In 1914, London County Council agreed to establish a hospital in Denmark Hill and Mott’s plan began to take shape. The Maudsley Hospital was opened in 1923 as a result of a donation by Henry Maudsley.\n\nOriginally established as the \"Maudsley Hospital Medical School\" in 1924, it changed its name to the \"Institute of Psychiatry\" in 1948, with Aubrey Lewis appointed to the inaugural Chair of Psychiatry (which he held until his retirement in 1966). The main Institute building was opened in 1967 and contains lecture theatres, administrative offices, library and canteen.\n\nIn 1959 a group of genetic researchers led by Eliot Slater were given Medical Research Council funding to establish themselves as the 'MRC Psychiatric Genetics Unit'. Although this closed down in 1969, psychiatric genetics continued, eventually as the MRC Social, Genetic and Developmental Psychiatry Centre (SGDP Centre) which moved into new purpose-built building in 2002.\n\nIn 1997, the Institute had split from the Maudsley and become instead a school of King's College London. The Henry Wellcome building was opened in 2001 and houses most of the IoPPN's psychology department. In 2004, a new Centre for Neuroimaging Sciences (CNS) was opened which provides offices, lab space, and access to two MRI scanners for neuroimaging research. In 2014 the Institute was renamed to the Institute of Psychiatry, Psychology and Neuroscience (IoPPN), as the remit of the Institute was broadened to include all brain and behavioural sciences.\n\nThe Addictions Department specialises in research into tobacco, alcohol and opiate addiction policy and treatment. In March 2010 the addiction research unit and the sections of alcohol research, tobacco research and behavioral pharmacology were brought together to form the current The Addictions Department, also known as the National Addiction Centre (NAC).\n\nThis department provides advice in the interpretation and use of statistical techniques in psychological research. They work closely with members of the Neuroimaging section in their work using brain scanners.\n\nThe Biostatistics department opened in 1964, then as the Biometrics Unit. The department holds particular expertise in multivariate statistical methods for measurement, life-course epidemiology and the analysis of experimental, genetic and neuropsychiatric data.\n\nThe department provides both introductory and advanced training in applied statistical methodology, collaborate on studies of mental health based here and internationally, and undertake research in relevant applied methodology.\n\nThe department also hosts the UKCRN accredited King's Clinical Trials Unit which provides randomisation, data management, analysis and trial management - all of which are available to researchers across King's Health Partners. The CTU provides support to both medicinal and non-medicinal clinical trials assisting researchers in the conduct of carrying out clinical trials.\n\nThe department is dedicated to the study of developmental disorders such as ADHD, clinical depression, autism and learning difficulties. The department has close links with the Michael Rutter Centre for Children and Young People at the Maudsley Hospital which has a number of specialist services for children and adolescents.\n\nForensic Mental Health Science is the study of antisocial, violent, and criminal behaviours among people with mental disorders. The department's research focuses on antisocial behaviour as it appears in people with either major mental disorders or personality disorders. The department is closely allied to the Forensic Psychiatry Teaching Unit.\n\nResearchers in this department carry out a range of studies into diseases such as Alzheimer's disease and motor neuron disease. The Institute of Psychiatry now houses the Medical Research Council Centre for Neurodegeneration Research, where pioneering research is conducted investigating disease of the CNS. The Department of Clinical Neuroscience in Windsor Walk also contains the MRC London Neurodegenerative Disease Brain Bank.\n\nThe Centre for Neuroimaging Sciences (CNS) is a joint venture of the King's College London Institute of Psychiatry and the South London and Maudsley NHS Trust (SLAM). Completed in early 2004, the centre provides an interdisciplinary research environment.\n\nThe Clinical Neuroimaging Department, situated at the Maudsley Hospital, provides a full range of neuroradiographic imaging services, including Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI). Within the CNS, the academic Department of Neuroimaging's Major Research Facility (MRF) manages a range of MRI facilities for research studies. The Department of Neuroimaging also runs an EEG laboratory, re-launched in 2010.\n\nThe IoPPN Psychology department was founded in 1950. The department conducts research in neuropsychology, forensic psychology, and cognitive behavioural therapy. Hans Eysenck set up the UK's first qualification in clinical psychology in the department, which has now evolved into a three-year doctoral 'DClinPsych' qualification.\n\nClinically, members of the department offer expert services to the Maudsley Hospital, Bethlem Royal Hospital, King's College Hospital, Guy's Hospital and community mental health teams in the South London area. Members of the department also teach psychology to undergraduate medical students from the United Medical and Dental Schools of Guy's and St Thomas' Hospitals. Psychiatric geneticist Peter McGuffin was awarded a fellowship at the Institute.\n\nThe Department of Psychological Medicine, chaired by Professor Ulrike Schmidt, addresses many of the commonest mental disorders which affect adults including depression, anxiety, post traumatic stress disorder, eating disorders, somatoform disorders, and medically unexplained symptoms and syndromes. Its research spans basic science, experimental medicine, epidemiology and public policy. It includes the King's Centre for Military Health Research, led by the Department's former chair, Professor Simon Wessely, and is responsible for studying the psychological impacts of the 2003 Iraq War. The department also contains a programme of work on liaison psychiatry and studies the many complex interactions between mental and physical illness.\n\nThe SGDP centre is a multi-disciplinary research centre devoted to the study of the interplay between “nature” (genetics) and “nurture” (environment) as they interact in the development of complex human behaviour. Research at the SGDP acknowledges that there is no simple solution to the \"nature versus nurture\" debate; instead, expertise is combined across fields such as social epidemiology, child and adult psychiatry, developmental psychopathology, development in the family, personality traits, cognitive abilities, statistical genetics, and molecular genetics. In this way it is hoped that a greater understanding can be achieved in risk factors that might predispose an individual to depression, ADHD, or autism.\n\nThe MRC Social, Genetic and Developmental Psychiatry (SGDP) Centre was founded in 1994 by the Medical Research Council, in partnership with the Institute of Psychiatry (now a school of King’s College London).\n\nThe research in social, genetic and developmental psychiatry have already existed at the Institute of Psychiatry since its establishment in 1948. However, the streams of research were not integrated and there have even been times when genetic researchers and social psychiatrists were in a state of hostility. The intellectual warfare between nature and nurture reached its peak in the 1960s and 1970s.\n\nAubrey Lewis, who was the first Professor of Psychiatry at the Institute and the director of the MRC Social Psychiatry Research Unit (first MRC unit at the Institute), noticed that social psychiatry was a broad field that included both biological substrate of disorders and social causes. Eliot Slater, the ‘founding father’ of psychiatric genetics in the United Kingdom, was encouraged by Lewis to study genetics in 1930s. In 1959, Slater established another MRC unit at the Institute (MRC Psychiatric Genetics Unit), but the unit was closed in 1969 on Slater’s retirement. In 1984, MRC Child Psychiatry Unit was established at the Institute of Psychiatry by Michael Rutter, a member in the MRC Social Psychiatry Research Unit led by Lewis. The unit brought together experts in many overlapping fields, and the mix proved highly successful as the unit had a major impact on child psychiatric research throughout the world.\n\nThe MRC Social Psychiatry Research Unit was closed in 1993. The MRC and the Institute found that there was a need for refocusing and reintegration with other strands of research including psychiatric genetics and disorders of adult life. Rutter and David Goldberg discussed with the MRC about the establishment of an interdisciplinary research centre that could comprehensively study the interplay of nature and nurture in the development of psychiatric disorders. In 1994, MRC SGDP Centre was established in Denmark Hill, and Rutter was appointed as the first Director of the centre. The SGDP Centre has moved into its new purpose-built building in 2002.\n\nThe department is the most highly cited group of scientists working on schizophrenia and related disorders. Work focuses on integrating cognitive measures and multimodal neuroimaging techniques, with perinatal, genetic and developmental data. The central aim is to characterize the core pathophysiological dimensions of schizophrenia and bipolar disorder. The section has initiated or participated a number of such treatment studies of new atypical antipsychotics and potential mood stabilising medication and is also developing computerised and web-based applications for disease self-management.\n\nThe Maurice Wohl Clinical Neuroscience Institute is a centre for neuroscience research opened by The Princess Royal in 2015. It is one of the leading neuroscience institutes in the world. The centre is named after British philanthropist Maurice Wohl, who supported many medical projects and had a long association with King’s College London, and was funded by several philanthropic donors, organisations and King's Health Partners.\n\nThe Maurice Wohl Clinical Neuroscience Institute focuses on the development of new treatments to patients affected by neurodegenerative diseases (such as Alzheimer’s disease, Parkinson’s disease and motor neurone disease), mental disorders (depression, schizophrenia) and neurological diseases (including epilepsy and stroke), and the understanding of disease mechanisms. The research institute has 250 clinicians and research scientists from neuroimaging, neurology, psychiatry, genetics, molecular and cellular biology and drug discovery.\n\nThe current three major goals of the institute is to determine the underlying genetic and environmental risk factors for disease, to identify tests for early diagnosis and biomarkers that measure disease progression, and to develop informative cellular and animal disease models of disease to accelerate drug discovery.\n\nApproximately 70% of the IoPPN's income comes from the research it conducts. Approximately 20% is from clinical work performed for the South London and Maudsley NHS Foundation Trust. Approximately 10% of gross income is from taught courses offered to postgraduate students.\n\nSources include the government's National Institute for Health Research and Higher Education Funding Council for England, grant-giving bodies such as the Medical Research Council (UK) and the Wellcome Trust, as well as other governmental, charitable and private-sector organisations. Individual research teams secure around £130 million of funds for their projects each year. Many projects are carried out in partnership with other university and health services, charities and private companies.\n\nThe IoPPN and the pharmaceutical company Lundbeck are led one of the largest ever academic-industry collaborations in research, known as NEWMEDS - Novel Methods leading to New Medications in Depression and Schizophrenia. The project is part of the Innovative Medicines Initiative developed by the European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations and the European Commission. NEWMEDS aims to facilitate the development of new psychiatric medications by bringing top scientists and academics together in partnership with nearly every major global drug company.\n\nAnother key project is the KCL and Janssen led pre competitive public private consortium RADAR-CNS (Remote Measurement of Disease and Relapse in Central Nervous System Disorders), which uses smartphones and wearable devices to track clinical outcomes in disorders like depression, multiple sclerosis and epilepsy.\n\nAmongst notable staff of the Institute are the following:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2072724", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2072724", "title": "Adam Kendon", "text": "Adam Kendon\n\nAdam Kendon (born in London, son of Frank Kendon) is one of the world's foremost authorities on the topic of gesture. He initially focused on sign systems in Papua New Guinea and Australian Aboriginal sign languages, before developing a general framework for understanding gestures with the same kind of rigorous semiotic analysis as has been previously applied to spoken language.\n\nEducated at University of Cambridge and Oxford Universities in biology and experimental psychology, his thesis topic—communication conduct in face-to-face interaction—spelled out the interests he would pursue in subsequent decades. He is noted for his study of gesture and sign languages and how these relate to spoken language.\n\nHe was a founding editor of the journal \"GESTURE\" (published by John Benjamins of Amsterdam), along with Cornelia Müller, in 2000. He was the sole editor from 2010 to April 2017, when he was replaced by Sotaro Kita. In his role as editor of \"GESTURE\" he had been an Ex Officio member of the board of the International Society for Gesture Studies.\n\n"}
{"id": "2072725", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2072725", "title": "Alan Sunderland", "text": "Alan Sunderland\n\nAlan Sunderland (born 1 July 1953) is an English former footballer who played as a forward in the Football League for Wolverhampton Wanderers, Arsenal and Ipswich Town. He was also capped once for England.\n\nSunderland was born in Conisbrough, Yorkshire, and began his career at Wolverhampton Wanderers as an apprentice who played as a midfielder. With the Wolves he won the 1974 League Cup in a 2–1 win over Manchester City in the final at Wembley. Sunderland also went on to win the Second Division title in 1977 with the Wanderers. Altogether he made just under 200 appearances and scored a sum of 30 goals for the Midlands side.\n\nIn November 1977, he joined Arsenal for £220,000. Whilst at Highbury he switched from being within the role of a midfielder to that of a centre forward. Sunderland became a regular starter for the club, playing in the 1978 FA Cup Final, which Arsenal lost to Ipswich Town.\n\nSunderland's most famous moment came in the 1979 FA Cup Final. During the game Arsenal had gone 2–0 up against Manchester United, with goals from Brian Talbot and Frank Stapleton, and looked set for victory with only five minutes remaining. However, United scored twice in three minutes, with goals from Gordon McQueen and Sammy McIlroy, and extra time loomed. In the very last minute of the match, however, Arsenal pushed forward in a desperate counter-attack. Liam Brady fed Graham Rix on the left wing, and his cross was converted by Sunderland at the far post to make the score 3–2, and win Arsenal the cup.\n\nSunderland stayed at Arsenal for another five years, forming an impressive partnership with Frank Stapleton for two seasons. He was the club's top scorer in 1979–80 together with 1981–82, and featured in the Arsenal sides that lost the 1980 FA Cup and Cup Winners' Cup finals.\n\nHowever, after a spate of injuries and the arrivals of Tony Woodcock and Charlie Nicholas, he thus found himself out of the first team. Sunderland eventually left Arsenal after netting 92 goals from 281 appearances for the Gooners. He went on then joining Ipswich Town on loan in February 1984. He helped them to avoid relegation from the First Division, and made the move permanent later in the summer. He played for Ipswich until 1986, then had a brief stint at Irish club Derry City, before calling it a day.\n\nFollowing retirement, he opened a pub in Ipswich and became involved in the Insurance and Letting businesses. Sunderland is also the father of three children. He eventually emigrated to Malta where he coached side Birkirkara F.C. based within the town of Birkirkara.\n\nSunderland won a single England cap which came in a 2–1 friendly win over Australia in Sydney on 31 May 1980, and also represented his country at under-21 (as an over-age player), under-23 and 'B' team level.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2072726", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2072726", "title": "Finnish Workers' Sports Federation", "text": "Finnish Workers' Sports Federation\n\nThe Finnish Workers' Sports Federation (, \"TUL\", , \"AIF\") is a Finnish amateur sports organization founded in 1919. In addition to the competitive sports, TUL focuses on youth activities and youth education as well as offering activities regardless of age, gender, ethnicity or financial means. TUL is one of the member associations of the Finnish Olympic Committee.\n\nTUL is affiliated with the Central Organisation of Finnish Trade Unions as well as the Social Democratic Party of Finland and Left Alliance. It is also a member of the International Labour Sports Federation (CSIT). TUL currently has more than 280,000 members, active in 1,000 clubs in 59 different sports.\n\nAfter the 1918 Finnish Civil War, the Finnish Gymnastics and Sports Federation (SVUL) dismissed all clubs and athletes who had participated the war on the Red side. In 26 January 1919, 56 labour movement related clubs founded the new workers' sports central association Finnish Workers' Sports Federation \"(Suomen Työväen Urheiluliitto, TUL)\". During the first year, a 78 newly established clubs joined the federation, and by the end of 1919, TUL had about 10,000 members. In the next decade, the number rose up to 450 clubs with approximately 35,000 individual members.\n\nThe establishment of TUL led into a dispersion in the Finnish sports as there was no cooperation between TUL and SVUL. Both associations created their own practise and competition systems, the Finnish championship titles were decided by SVUL athletes as TUL had own championships. Also the Finnish national teams were composed of SVUL athletes only. In 1920, TUL was a founding member of the Socialist Workers' Sport International and later had also relations with the Red Sport International. Instead of the ″bourguoise″ Olympic Games, the TUL athletes participated the Workers' Olympiads and the Spartakiads. In 1921, TUL sent a team to the Workers' Sports Festival in Prague, and in September 1922, the Finnish Workers' Sports Federation football team toured Soviet Russia. This was also the first international contact for Soviet sports after the 1917 October Revolution.\n\nSince the founding of TUL, the Social Democrats and Communists struggled for power inside the federation. Finally in 1927, the Social Democrats gained majority, and TUL denied all contacts with the Soviet led Red Sport International. Eighty clubs still sent athletes to the 1928 winter and summer Spartakiads in Oslo and Moscow. This ended up to the dismiss of 80 clubs in the fall of 1929, and the Communist-led clubs established a shortly-lived central organization \" Työläisurheilun Yhtenäisyyskomitea\" \"(The Unification Committee of the Labour Sports)\", launched in December 1929.\n\nAt the same time, fascism reached foothold in the Finnish society. In 1930, the Parliament of Finland passed the anti-Communist laws, hundreds of organizations and newspapers that were considered as communist were banned. Among these organizations were 147 TUL member associations. For example, Finland's second largest sports club, Jyry Helsinki, was disbanded. The banned clubs were not able to re-organize until the end of World War II. Since 1932, TUL also lost its governmental grants for two years.\n\nDuring the 1920s and the 1930s, more than 70 top athletes defected from the TUL clubs in order to compete in the Olympics. Between 1920 and 1936, 34 former TUL athletes participated the Olympic Games, 15 of them won a total of 23 medals. Since the early 1930s, 13 former TUL footballers were selected to the Finnish national football team.\n\nAfter the 1936 Berlin Olympics, TUL and SVUL launched negotiations of cooperation as Helsinki was elected to host the 1940 Summer Olympics. Finally, in 1939 the parties signed a cooperation agreement. The TUL and SVUL athletes competed together for the first time in June 1939 as the TUL and Finnish Football Association teams played against each other at the Helsinki Olympic Stadium. The 1940 Summer Olympics were soon postponed due to the World War II, but TUL and SVUL continued their cooperation through the 1940s. In 1948, TUL athletes participated the Olympic Games for the first time, winning three medals, including one gold. The 37-year fragmented period finally came to an end in 1956, as the TUL and FA football series were merged.\n\nIn 1959, TUL split due to the internal dispute among the Social Democrats. The minority led by Emil Skog left the party, which also dispersed TUL. The Skog supporters formed the \"Työväen Urheiluseurojen Keskusliitto\" \"(The Central Organization of the Labour Sports Associations)\", which was active until 1979, although Emil Skog himself returned the party in 1964. The dispute also caused that TUL athlete were not send to the 1960 Olympics.\n\nDespite the cooperation, the political debates between TUL and SVUL survived even to the 1990s. The number of individual members in TUL peaked at 380,000 in the early 1980s. In 2001, TUL had 337,000 members.\n\nThe ″Federation Festivals″ \"(Liittojuhlat)\" were launched in 1927 and have been arranged 12 times since. The largest festival with up to 36,000 participants was held in 1946. The TUL sports academy Kisakeskus was opened in Raseborg in 1958.\n\n\nThe following athletes represented a Finnish Workers' Sports Federation's member association while winning an Olympic medal. Due to political reasons, TUL did not send athletes to the Olympics in 1920–1936 and again in 1960.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2072735", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2072735", "title": "Hawa Mahal", "text": "Hawa Mahal\n\nHawa Mahal (English translation: \"The Palace of Winds\" or \"The Palace of Breeze\") is a palace in Jaipur, India. Made with the red and pink sandstone, the palace sits on the edge of the City Palace, Jaipur, and extends to the \"Zenana\", or women's chambers.\n\nThe structure was built in 1799 by Maharaja Sawai Pratap Singh, the grandson of Maharaja Sawai Jai Singh, who was the founder of Jaipur. He was so inspired by the unique structure of Khetri Mahal that he built this grand and historical palace. It was designed by Lal Chand Ustad. Its unique five floors exterior is akin to the honeycomb of a beehive with its 953 small windows called Jharokhas decorated with intricate latticework. The original intent of the lattice design was to allow royal ladies to observe everyday life and festivals celebrated in the street below without being seen, since they had to obey the strict rules of \"purdah\", which forbade them from appearing in public without face coverings. This architectural feature also allowed cool air from the Venturi effect to pass through, thus making the whole area more pleasant during the high temperatures in summer. Many people see the Hawa Mahal from the street view and think it is the front of the palace, but in reality it is the back of that structure.\n\nIn 2006, renovation works on the Mahal were undertaken, after a gap of 50 years, to give a facelift to the monument at an estimated cost of Rs 4.568  million. The corporate sector lent a hand to preserve the historical monuments of Jaipur and the Unit Trust of India has adopted Hawa Mahal to maintain it.\nThe palace is an extended part of a huge complex. The stone-carved screens, small casements, and arched roofs are some of the features of this popular tourist spot. The monument also has delicately modeled hanging cornices.\n\nThe palace is a five-story pyramidal shaped monument that rises to about . The top three floors of the structure have the width of a single room, while the first and second floors have patios in front of them. The front elevation, as seen from the street, is like a honeycomb with small portholes. Each porthole has miniature windows and carved sandstone grills, finials and domes. It gives the appearance of a mass of semi-octagonal bays, giving the monument its unique façade. The inner face on the back side of the building consists of chambers built with pillars and corridors with minimal ornamentation, and reach up to the top floor. The interior of the Mahal has been described as \"having rooms of different coloured marbles, relieved by inlaid panels or gilding; while fountains adorn the centre of the courtyard\".\n\nLal Chand Ustad was the architect of this unique structure. Built-in red and pink colored sandstone, in keeping with the décor of the other monuments in the city, its color is a full testimony to the epithet of \"Pink City\" given to Jaipur. Its façade depicting 953 niches with intricately carved jharokhas (some are made of wood) is a stark contrast to the plain-looking rear side of the structure. Its cultural and architectural heritage is a true reflection of a fusion of Hindu Rajput architecture and Islamic Mughal architecture; the Rajput style is seen in the form of domed canopies, fluted pillars, lotus, and floral patterns, and the Islamic style as evident in its stone inlay filigree work and arches (as distinguished from its similarity with the Panch Mahal at Fatehpur Sikri).\n\nThe entry to the Hawa Mahal from the city palace side is through an imperial door. It opens into a large courtyard, which has double-storeyed buildings on three sides, with the Hawa Mahal enclosing it on the east side. An archaeological museum is also housed in this courtyard.\n\nHawa Mahal was also known as the \"chef-d'œuvre\" of Maharaja Jai Singh as it was his favourite resort because of the elegance and built-in interior of the Mahal. The cooling effect in the chambers, provided by the breeze passing through the small windows of the façade, was enhanced by the fountains provided at the center of each of the chambers.\n\nThe top two floors of the Hawa Mahal are accessed only through ramps. The Mahal is maintained by the archaeological department of the Government of Rajasthan.\n\n"}
{"id": "2072737", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2072737", "title": "Simple Symphony", "text": "Simple Symphony\n\nThe Simple Symphony, Op. 4, is a work for string orchestra or string quartet by Benjamin Britten.\nIt was written between December 1933 and February 1934 in Lowestoft, using bits of score that the composer had written for the piano as a young teenager, between 1923 and 1926. It was composed for string orchestra and received its first performance in 1934 at Stuart Hall in Norwich, with Britten conducting an amateur orchestra.\n\nThe piece is dedicated to Audrey Alston (Mrs Lincolne Sutton), Britten's viola teacher during his childhood.\nThe piece is based on eight themes which Britten wrote during his childhood (two per movement) and for which he had a particular fondness. He completed his final draft of this piece at age twenty.\n\n\nIt has four movements, each quoting themes from 2 earlier works by Britten:\n\nEight main themes appear in the symphony, with two movements, the most famous is the pizzicato. The entire pieces last about 20 minutes. The second movement is popular with mandolin players as it is pizzicato. Prominent in this popular theme is 8 notes which sound familiar as echoing the opening of \"Barwick Green\" the theme music to the long-running BBC Radio 4 everyday story of country folk, \"The Archers\", written in 1924 by Arthur Wood.\n\nIn 1944, the choreographer Walter Gore created a ballet also entitled \"Simple Symphony\" for the Ballet Rambert.\n\nMany themes of the symphony are also used for the soundtrack \"Bad Blood\" (1986) by Leos Carax. It appears in Wes Anderson's film \"Moonrise Kingdom\" (2012), which prominently features many pieces by Britten. It also appears in the first two seasons of The Marvelous Mrs. Maisel (2017-2018).\n\n"}
{"id": "2072738", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2072738", "title": "Lily Butters", "text": "Lily Butters\n\nLily Esther Butters, (1894 – June 3, 1980) was a Canadian who founded the Cecil Butters Memorial Hospital, or the Butters Centre, which cared for mentally disabled children. It was named in honour of her son, Cecil. It operated from 1947 to 1990.\n\nIn 1972, she was made an Officer of the Order of Canada.\n"}
{"id": "2072740", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2072740", "title": "Curvature collineation", "text": "Curvature collineation\n\nA curvature collineation (often abbreviated to CC) is vector field which preserves the Riemann tensor in the sense that,\n\nwhere formula_2 are the components of the Riemann tensor. The set of all smooth curvature collineations forms a Lie algebra under the Lie bracket operation (if the smoothness condition is dropped, the set of all curvature collineations need not form a Lie algebra). The Lie algebra is denoted by formula_3 and may be infinite-dimensional. Every affine vector field is a curvature collineation.\n\n"}
{"id": "2072741", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2072741", "title": "Category of small categories", "text": "Category of small categories\n\nIn mathematics, specifically in category theory, the category of small categories, denoted by Cat, is the category whose objects are all small categories and whose morphisms are functors between categories. Cat may actually be regarded as a 2-category with natural transformations serving as 2-morphisms.\n\nThe initial object of Cat is the \"empty category\" 0, which is the category of no objects and no morphisms. The terminal object is the \"terminal category\" or \"trivial category\" 1 with a single object and morphism.\n\nThe category Cat is itself a large category, and therefore not an object of itself. In order to avoid problems analogous to Russell's paradox one cannot form the “category of all categories”. But it is possible to form a quasicategory (meaning objects and morphisms merely form a conglomerate) of all categories.\n\nThe category Cat has a forgetful functor \"U\" into the quiver category Quiv:\n\nThis functor forgets the identity morphisms of a given category, and it forgets morphism compositions. The left adjoint of this functor is a functor \"F\" taking Quiv to the corresponding free categories:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2072755", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2072755", "title": "Dwapara Yukam", "text": "Dwapara Yukam\n\nAccording to Akilathirattu Ammanai the holy text of Ayyavazhi the present universe has eight aeons and we are in the seventh aeon, Kali Yukam.\n\nIn the sixth aeon called Dwapara Yukam, the fifth fragment of Kroni, the primordial personification of evil, was apportioned into hundred pieces, and made into Thuriyothanan and ninety-nine brothers to support him. The three brothers of Raman, along with Vibushanan and Sampoovan of the preceding epoch, were created as Pancha Pandavas in this aeon. In the battle drawn between the forces of Thuriyothanan and Panchapantavarkal, the wicked Thuriyothanan was killed by the later with the support of Mayon who came in the form of Krishnan. Even at the point of death Thuriyothanan refuse to repent, saying that, \"only with your cunning mind you was able to defeat me and otherwise not\". Lord Narayana then told him: You will be created with knowledge, intelligence, and artistic skills in the next Yukam, and if you do not repent in that age, that will be your eternal annihilation.\n\n"}
{"id": "2072756", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2072756", "title": "Bavarian porn", "text": "Bavarian porn\n\nBavarian porn is a campy subgenre of comic erotic cinema from Germany.\n\nThe apogee of the genre was the late 1960s and early 1970s, corresponding roughly to the chancellorship of Willy Brandt, but these films continued to be produced up to about 1980. Today they live on as staples of late night European cable and satellite channels. Among the directors working in this genre were Franz Antel (\"Liebe durch die Hintertür\", 1969; \"Das Love-Hotel in Tirol\", 1978), Franz Marischka (\"Liebesgrüße aus der Lederhose\", 1973; \"Zwei Däninnen in Lederhosen\", 1979; \"Three Lederhosen in St. Tropez\", 1980), Franz-Josef Gottlieb (\"No Sin on the Alpine Pastures\", 1974), Alois Brummer (\"Beim Jodeln juckt die Lederhose\", 1974), and Hubert Frank (\"Jagdrevier der scharfen Gemsen\", 1975). Alois Brummer was the producer of many of these films. Being the owner of two cinemas, he became interested in films and filmmaking and thought he could make a director and producer himself. After some \"Report\" movies (so-called documentaries about \"German housewives\" or \"schools for girls\", as a reaction to serious documentaries about sexual items in Germany's late 60's) he became involved in the series as mentioned above. These were mainly situated in the Alps. Director Franz Marischka got the idea by a newspaper article in 1972 about wealthy female tourists in Bavaria who tried to seduce local young men or the landlord of the inn where they were staying (and paid them for it). Marischka was inspired and set himself to make films about the subject. Therefore, the Alps were chosen as background.\n\nBavarian porn films were usually set in Bavaria (Bayern) or Tyrol (Tirol). At that time most German film studios were located in Munich. This is somewhat ironic, considering the fact that Bavaria is the culturally and socially most conservative area of Germany, and has been run by the Christian Social Union almost continuously since 1947. Not a few of those movies are of Austrian origin, since many of them take place in Tyrol.\n\nAt the time, Bavarian porn seemed outrageous and shocking to the older generation, who had been instilled with the family values of the National Socialist regime, not to mention traditional German sexual morality. To the baby-boomers who came of age after World War II, the films embodied the freedom and liberation brought about through the Sexual Revolution.\n\nToday, these films are revered more for their camp value than any ability to cause sexual arousal. Their legacy is most evident in the poppy acid-jazz soundtracks used in these films, which became popular among hipsters during the late 1990s, along with the resurgence of space age pop. Gert Wilden composed and performed many Bavarian porn soundtracks with his orchestra.\n\nSome Bavarian porn films were dubbed into English by German actors and actresses speaking English. The poor translations, \"Godzilla-style\" dub quality, and German accents elevate the camp factor of these films to a level beyond that of the German originals. Bavarian porn was released in the United States under titles such as \"Naughty Co-Eds\", \"2069: A Sex Odyssey\", and \"The Sinful Bed\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2072757", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2072757", "title": "Mountain Biking UK", "text": "Mountain Biking UK\n\nMountain Biking UK (often shortened to \"MBUK\") is a British mountain biking magazine. It is published by Immediate Media and is currently the UK's best-selling mountain bike magazine, with a circulation of 38,482 (ABC: Jan - Dec 2010). \n\n\"MBUK\" was launched in 1988 by Pacificon Ltd. Edited by Tym Manley who remained editor at large until 2009. In 2014, former-owner Future plc sold all its sport and craft titles to Immediate Media Company, including the \"MBUK\" title. The current editor is Danny Walter. There are currently 13 issues a year, and the magazine has a policy of including 'covermount' gifts such as stickers, gloves, socks and DVDs.\n\n\"MBUK\" covers all mountain biking disciplines; trials, downhill, cross-country, dirt jumping, free-riding and 4X. Future plc's readership demographics research has indicated the magazine's readership to be 95% male, with an average age of 24.5.\n\nSince 1989 \"MBUK\" has carried the ovine-based cartoon strip, \"Mint Sauce\", the tales of a mountain-biking sheep and his friends.\n\nIn July 2006 \"MBUK\" released its 200th edition. To mark the occasion, Cedric Gracia (leading French downhill and 4X racer) was guest editor.\n\nIn May 2008 \"MBUK\" released their 20th anniversary issue, issue #225. It came with eight free gifts and a fold-out front cover of Steve Peat.\n\nThe magazine along with co-sponsors such as Nike, Santa Cruz and Fox Racing operated a successful professional mountain bike team from the mid-1990s until the mid-2000s, including riders of the calibre of Steve Peat, Scott Beaumont, Rob Warner and Will Longden and competing in the UCI Mountain Bike World Cup.\n"}
{"id": "2072762", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2072762", "title": "Leirvík", "text": "Leirvík\n\nLeirvík () is a town on the Faroe Islands and was an important regional ferry harbour at the east coast of the second-largest island Eysturoy. Leirvík has 925 inhabitants (January 1, 2017).\n\nIt was the only town in the municipality of Leirvík (\"Leirvíkar kommuna\"), however on 1 January 2009, it merged with Gøtu kommuna to make the new municipality called Eysturkommuna.\n\nLeirvík is important for its fishing industry.\n\nThe Norðoyatunnilin, a submarine tunnel to Klaksvík to the east, was opened in April 2006.\n\nA district heating system pulls heat from the sea, increases the heat in a heat pump powered by electricity, and sends the heat to the large buildings in the town.\n\nArchaeological excavations have shown that the town was first settled the 9th century by the Vikings. It is said that all inhabitants died in 1349 because of the Black Death.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2072768", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2072768", "title": "The Sound Barrier", "text": "The Sound Barrier\n\nThe Sound Barrier (known in the United States as Breaking Through the Sound Barrier and Breaking the Sound Barrier) is a 1952 British aviation film directed by David Lean. It is a fictional story about attempts by aircraft designers and test pilots to break the sound barrier. It was David Lean's third and final film with his wife Ann Todd, but it was his first for Alexander Korda's London Films, following the break-up of Cineguild. \"The Sound Barrier\" stars Ralph Richardson, Ann Todd, and Nigel Patrick.\n\n\"The Sound Barrier\" was a box-office success on first release, but it has become one of the least-known of Lean's films. Following on \"In Which We Serve\" (1942), the film is another of Lean's ventures into a genre of filmmaking where impressions of documentary film are created.\n\nAfter his aircraft company's groundbreaking work on jet engine technology in the Second World War, John Ridgefield (Ralph Richardson), its wealthy owner, employs test pilot Tony Garthwaite (Nigel Patrick), a successful wartime fighter pilot to fly new jet-powered aircraft. Garthwaite is hired by Ridgefield after marrying Ridgefield's daughter, Susan (Ann Todd). Tensions between father and daughter are accentuated by Garthwaite's dangerous job of test flying. In a noteworthy illustration of the new technology, Susan accompanies Garthwaite on a ferrying assignment of a two-seater de Havilland Vampire to Cairo, Egypt, returning later the same day as passengers on a de Havilland Comet.\n\nRidgefield's plan for his new jet fighter, \"Prometheus\", has placed the company in jeopardy. The problems faced by the new jet aircraft in encountering the speed of sound, the so-called \"sound barrier\", are ever present. In an attempt to break the sound barrier, Garthwaite crashes and is killed. \n\nShocked at the death of her husband and at her father's apparently single-minded and heartless approach to the dangers his test pilots face, Susan walks out on her father and goes to live with friends Jess (Dinah Sheridan) and Philip Peel (John Justin), another company test pilot. Ridgefield later engages Peel to take on the challenge of piloting \"Prometheus\" at speeds approaching the speed of sound. In a crucial flight and at the critical moment, Peel performs a counterintuitive action (foreshadowed in the opening scene of the film) which enables him to maintain control of the aircraft and to break the sound barrier. Eventually accepting that her father did care about those whose lives were lost in tests, Susan changes her plan of moving to London and takes her young son with her back to live with Sir John.\n\nThe strong relationship to aviation history in \"The Sound Barrier\" has led to its being characterised as a \"semi-documentary\". The film pays tribute to the British effort in the historic advance in aviation of the development and final perfecting of the jet engine by Frank Whittle and Power Jets Ltd and others following.\n\nDavid Lean had begun to gather research based on media reports of jet aircraft approaching supersonic speeds, interviewing British aeronautic designers. He even managed to fly with test pilots as he produced a 300-page notebook that he turned over to dramatist Terence Rattigan. The subsequent screenplay concentrated on the newly discovered problems of flying at supersonic speeds and is also loosely based on the real-life story of aircraft designer Geoffrey de Havilland and the loss of his son. Geoffrey de Havilland, Jr. was the de Havilland company test pilot who died on 27 September 1946 attempting to fly faster than the speed of sound in the DH 108. \n\nJohn Derry, another de Havilland test pilot, has been called \"Britain's first supersonic pilot,\" because of a dive he made on 6 September 1948 in a DH 108.\n\nContrary to what is depicted in the film, the first aircraft to break the sound barrier was the rocket-powered Bell X-1 flown by Chuck Yeager of the United States Air Force in 1947. As Yeager, who was present at the US premiere, described in his first biography, \"The Sound Barrier\" was entertaining, but not that realistic – and any pilot who attempted to break the sound barrier in the manner portrayed in the film (forcing the centre stick forward to pull out of a dive) would have been killed. Because the 1947 Bell X-1 flight had not been widely publicised, many who saw \"The Sound Barrier\" thought it was a true story, and that the first supersonic flight was made by a British pilot.\n\nStudio filming was completed at Shepperton Studios, but the flying sequences were filmed at Chilbolton Aerodrome, Nether Wallop, Hampshire, under the direction of Anthony Squire. A Vickers Valetta and Avro Lancaster bomber served as camera platforms for the aerial sequences. With the assistance of the British Aircraft Constructors Association, aircraft featured in \"The Sound Barrier\" were loaned by Vickers, de Havilland and other British aerospace companies. In addition, footage of early 1950s British jet technology used in the film includes scenes of the de Havilland Comet, the world's first jet passenger airliner, the Supermarine Attacker and the de Havilland Vampire. A Supermarine 535 prototype for the later Swift (\"VV119\") featured as the experimental \"Prometheus\" jet fighter. Not unlike its screen persona, the Swift was an aircraft design that underwent particularly difficult teething problems during development.\n\nMalcolm Arnold (later knighted) composed the music score, for this, the first of his three films for David Lean. The others were \"Hobson's Choice\" (1954) and \"The Bridge on the River Kwai\" (1957).\n\n\"The Sound Barrier\", in its American title as \"Breaking the Sound Barrier,\" was reviewed by Bosley Crowther in \"The New York Times\". According to Crowther, \"this picture, which was directed and produced in England by David Lean from an uncommonly literate and sensitive original script by Terence Rattigan, is a wonderfully beautiful and thrilling comprehension of the power of jet airplanes and of the minds and emotions of the people who are involved with these miraculous machines. And it is played with consummate revelation of subtle and profound characters by a cast headed by Ralph Richardson, Nigel Patrick, and Ann Todd\".\n\nFilm historian Stephen Pendo further described the \"brilliant aerial photography. ... Along with the conventional shot of the aircraft there is some unusual creative camera work. To illustrate the passage of a plane, Lean shows only the wheat in a field being bent by air currents produced by the unseen jet. ... Even the cockpit shots are very good, with the test pilots in G-suits and goggles framed by the plexiglass and sky backgrounds.\"\n\"The Sound Barrier\" was the 12th most popular movie at the British box office in 1952, and also did well in the United States, making a comfortable profit.\n\n\nWith this film, Ralph Richardson became the first actor to win the New York Film Critics Award for Best Actor who did not receive an Oscar nomination.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2072779", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2072779", "title": "Seventeen Seventy, Queensland", "text": "Seventeen Seventy, Queensland\n\nSeventeen Seventy, also written as 1770, is a coastal town and locality in Gladstone Region, Queensland, Australia, built on the site of the second landing in Australia by James Cook and the crew of HM Bark Endeavour in May 1770 (and their first landing in what is nowadays the state of Queensland). Originally known as Round Hill – after the creek it sits on – the name was changed on 24 June 1936 after the town allotments were surveyed in 1935 to recognise the historical importance of the town. The community of Seventeen Seventy hold the re-enactment of this historic landing each year as part of the 1770 Festival held in May.\n\nAlthough the town is referred to locally as \"1770\" using numerals, the official name of the town is in words \"Seventeen Seventy\", as it is a principle of Queensland's place naming that numbers are spelled out.\n\nThe village is a tourist destination on Queensland's Discovery Coast. It is situated on a peninsula, with the Coral Sea and Bustard Bay on three sides. Agnes Water is eight kilometres (five miles) to the south. The village itself contains holiday accommodation, restaurants, general store, hotel, picnic areas with free barbecues and a small marina where daily trips depart for Lady Musgrave Island on the Great Barrier Reef, and several trips a week to Bustard Head Light Station.\n\nSeventeen Seventy can be reached by a sealed road from Bundaberg, to the south, going through Agnes Water. The town sustains a small permanent population; a significant holiday population makes it to the area to take advantage of fishing, Great Barrier Reef trips and other water activities.\n\nThe area also has four national parks. These are Deepwater, Eurimbula, Mount Colosseum, and Round Hill. These all offer wilderness camping and hiking.\n\nAt the the town of Seventeen Seventy had a population of 76 people.\n\nThe area's wildlife and vegetation have been preserved as far as possible, and this, together with the area's natural environment, and an outer surf and inner still water beach, is a tourist attraction. There are also day cruises and flights to the outer Great Barrier Reef, to nearby Lady Musgrave Island and Pancake Creek, and the nearby Bustard Head lighthouse.\n\nThe local Tourism & Commerce organisation responsible for promoting the region is Discovery Coast Tourism and Commerce.\n\nSeventeen Seventy has a number of heritage-listed sites, including:\n"}
{"id": "2072781", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2072781", "title": "Henry Goodridge", "text": "Henry Goodridge\n\nHenry Edmund Goodridge (1797, Bath – 26 October 1864) was an English architect based in Bath. He worked from the early 1820s until the 1850s, using Classical, Italianate and Gothic styles.\n\nHe was born in Bath in 1797 the son of James Goodridge, who was at that time was engaged in large speculative building projects in connection with the management of the estate of Sir William Pulteney, at Bathwick. On the advice of Thomas Telford, his father had him articled to John Lowder, then the City Architect for Bath.\n\nHaving set up his own practice, his early work consisted mostly of alterations, laying out blocks for building, and designing villas. He converted the Old Orchard Street Theatre into a Catholic church. His first important work was the enlargement of the Roman Catholic Downside College, (1821-3) near Bath, parts of which were praised by Pugin. His work there included the vaulted Gothic chapel, which was originally heavily pinnacled. In 1824 he built Christ Church at Rode Hill, also in Gothic style, and the next year he acted both as developer and architect on the \"Corridor\" in Bath.\n\nIn 1827 he finished the Cleveland Bridge over the Avon in Bath, a cast iron structure, with Doric lodges. He later built the Public Dispensary nearby, using the Ionic order. In 1829 he visited Italy, where he sketched buildings assiduously.\n\nIn 1834 he made a grand design for a church in connection with the Roman Catholic College at Prior Park. It was never carried out, and a chapel on a smaller scale was later built by J.J. Scoles. Goodridge did, however, build the processional stairway in front of the mansion, and also made some internal alterations which were obliterated by fire in 1836.\n\nHe designed the tower at Lansdown for William Beckford, who had recently sold Fonthill Abbey, and moved to a house in Lansdown Crescent in Bath. Beckford obtained designs from several London and Bath architects, including Goodridge, who was chosen after some prevarication. New designs were drawn up, and the tower completed up to the level of the block cornice in 28 working days. It was intended to be roofed at this point, but Beckford decided it should be increased in height with a belvedere, and then decided on an additional lantern. According to a brief biography of Goodridge, written by his son: In style [the tower] may be termed Greco-Italian, a style Goodridge greatly adopted, as he considered therein the purity of the Greek and the freedom of the Romanesque were best combined. After Beckford's death, the tower and grounds became a cemetery, for which Goodridge designed a gateway and wing walls in a Byzantine style.\n\nAt around this time he was employed by Beckford's son-in-law the Duke of Hamilton at Hamilton Palace, in the finishing of the grand staircase and hall, and in building the Beckford library there. He also made a design for a mausoleum, which was originally intended to be built adjoining the palace. The Duke, however, changed his mind, and decided to build it some distance away in the park. Goodridge made several designs for the new situation, but his client thought them too extravagant, and Goodridge only built the burial vaults of the new structure, the chapel above being entrusted to another architect.\n\nHe entered the competition to design the new Houses of Parliament, and was appointed to the committee to choose designs for the decoration of Parliament when an exhibition was held for the purpose at Westminster Hall.\n\nDuring the construction of the Great Western Railway through Bath, his services were secured by Brunel to purchase the land and settle the various claims. During part of his career he did a great deal of this kind of work.\n\nHis last works before his retirement were the alteration and enlargement of Ecclescrieg, Kincardineshire, for Forsyth Grant, and the Percy Chapel, Bath, (1854), another Byantine design. on which he worked with his son, A. S. Goodridge.\n\nHarvey Lonsdale Elmes and W.H. Campbell were his pupils.\n\nGoodridge maintained a financial interest in The Corridor and, a few years after the death of his widow, his will led to a family dispute which had to be resolved by the Chancery Court.\n\nHe was buried in Lansdown Cemetery, which surrounds Beckford's Tower.\n\nGoodridge's buildings in Bath include:\n\nHis designs outside Bath include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2072782", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2072782", "title": "Bill Woodson", "text": "Bill Woodson\n\nWilliam T. Woodson (July 16, 1917 – February 22, 2017) was an American voice actor, best known for his narration of the radio series \"This is Your FBI\" and the animated series \"Super Friends\" and all its spin-offs.\n\nBefore becoming a professional actor, he acted in stock theatre for nearly a decade with his first appearance in a 1928 play.\n\nIn 1943, Bill Woodson made his Broadway debut as Lowell Denton in \"Harriet\", starring Helen Hayes. He showed versatility as a performer, proving himself equally capable in classical roles such as that of Montano in the Shubert Theatre's adaptation of William Shakespeare's \"Othello\" with Paul Robeson in the lead role. From 1946-47, the actor played, what is probably his best-known stage role, Le Bret opposite Jose Ferrer as the title character in \"Cyrano de Bergerac\".\n\nHe also appeared as Tom Mackenzie in \"The Seven Year Itch\", Stephen Douglas in \"The Rivalry\" and T. Stedman Harder in \"A Moon for the Misbegotten\".\n\nIn 1947, he was among the first actors to be accepted to the first class of the newly formed Actors Studio.\n\nWoodson served as the narrator for the crime drama series \"This is Your FBI\" from 1948-53 on ABC radio.\n\nHe also voiced multiple characters on episodes of several other radio programs such as \"Suspense\", \"Inheritance\" and \"Family Theater\".\n\nWoodson had a small live-action appearance in the 1953 sci-fi film \"The Beast from 20,000 Fathoms\", as a newscaster. Another on-screen role was as Sergeant Ed Blankey on the drama television series \"This Man Dawson\". He also did some of the voice-over work on the 1960s series \"The Invaders\". In 1963-1964, he portrayed the ringmaster on the ABC drama \"The Greatest Show on Earth\". He also narrated for NFL Films.\n\nIn the 1970s, Woodson's television work included the opening narrative of \"The Odd Couple\", the narration for the pilot of \"The Life and Times of Grizzly Adams\", and a brief appearance on one episode of \"The Mary Tyler Moore Show\". In 1977-1978, he was the voice of the sheriff on \"CB Bears\" on NBC. \n\nHe was also a featured but un-credited voice-over announcer for \"WKRP In Cincinnati\". It was his voice, inviting the audience to stay tuned for the epilogue for each episode. He also did a number of voice roles in several episodes, including the pre-recorded announcer of the intro to Les Nessman's newscasts.\n\nIn 1983, the actor served as the narrator for the miniseries adaptation of Herman Wouk's novel, \"The Winds of War\", and its sequel miniseries, \"War and Remembrance\". In this capacity, he would explain to the television audience the large-scale historical events that provide the context for the storylines of the two miniseries.\n\nWilliam Woodson's legacy will be his long association with the \"Super Friends\" series, where he served as narrator and sometimes voiced additional characters. He took over the role from Ted Knight, who coincidentally had played Ted Baxter, the man Woodson's character hoped to replace during his appearance on \"The Mary Tyler Moore Show\".\n\nWoodson narrated each subsequent \"Super Friends\" episode, narrating over 100 episodes, including the 7-minute short subject episodes produced from 1980 to 1983. Perhaps his most memorable line from the series was the often-used phrase that accompanied a transition to scenes at the Super Friends' headquarters: \"\"Later, at the Hall of Justice...\"\"\n\nIn a 2011 interview, he explained that his pronunciation of the word \"super\" as \"syuper\" rather than \"sooper\", which is more usual in the U.S., was due to the criticism of his speech he had received in high school. Wishing to sound more sophisticated, he patterned his speech after that of Ronald Colman.\n\nIn addition, he also supplied the opening narration and voice for several characters on \"Battle of the Planets\", as well as playing the sinister tanner in Walt Disney's \"The Small One\". In 1981, he did the voice of J. Jonah Jameson in \"Spider-Man\" and that same year, he reprised the character on \"Spider-Man and his Amazing Friends\", where he also played Namor the Submariner and Dr. Strange in the episode \"7 Little Superheroes\". \n\nWoodson later guest-starred on \"Garfield and Friends\", \"The Jetsons\", \"Tiny Toon Adventures\" and \"Duckman\" and other shows.\n\nIn 1966, he played the Secretary of War in 3 episodes of \"F-Troop\".\n\nHe played the reporter in Stan Freberg's parody advertisement of Jacobsen Mowers, which were in actuality sheep grazing. In the satirical ad, he announced: \"Jacobsen Mowers. Faster...than sheep!\".\n\nBill Woodson was also the narrator of NFL Films' official films of Super Bowl II and he also narrated the 1967 NFL Championship Game, better known as the \"Ice Bowl\". The longtime voice of NFL Films, John Facenda, had been unavailable.\n\nIn 1994 Woodson was the voice of a television and radio advertising campaign celebrating the 30th anniversary of Pennsylvania-based Wawa convenience stores. The commercials humorously referenced 1964 events such as The Beatles' appearances on \"The Ed Sullivan Show\" and the introduction of the Ford Mustang. They were produced by Philadelphia ad agency Earle Palmer Brown & Spiro.\n\nFrom 2004-2010, Woodson, a California resident, lent his austere deep voice to a series of humorous commercials promoting the Minnesota Twins. The ads had titles such as \"The Minnesota Twins - Get to Know 'Em\", \"Every Fan Counts\", and \"This is Twins Territory\". His voice can also be heard narrating in many Disney read-alongs.\n\nIn 1959, Woodson married actress Darlene Conley. They divorced in 1966.\n\nHe died on February 22, 2017 at the age of 99.\n\n"}
{"id": "2072796", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2072796", "title": "Dally Messenger", "text": "Dally Messenger\n\nHerbert Henry Messenger, nicknamed \"Dally\" and sometimes \"The Master\" (12 April 1883 – 24 November 1959) was one of Australasia's first professional rugby footballers, recognised as one of the greatest-ever players in either code. He played for New South Wales in the very first match run by the newly created 'New South Wales Rugby Football League' which had just split away from the established New South Wales Rugby Football Union.\n\nMessenger had a stocky build, and while standing only about in height, he was a powerful runner of the ball and a solid defender. According to his peers, the centre's greatest attributes were his unpredictability and astonishing physical co-ordination, coupled with a freakish ability to kick goals from almost any part of the ground. He was a teetotaller and non-smoker during his career and other than breakfast, Messenger would rarely eat before a match.\n\nMessenger was born in the Sydney waterfront suburb of Balmain, New South Wales, and grew up in another of Sydney's waterfront suburbs, Double Bay, where his father owned a boat shed. He also spent some time living with an aunt in South Melbourne, Victoria, and he later recalled playing a game during this period which may have been \"Victorian rules football\".\n\nIn Sydney, Messenger attended Double Bay Public School in the city's eastern suburbs. It was here that he initially honed his rugby skills, while also playing cricket and indulging in his other great sporting love, sailing. Messenger worked, too, at his father's boat shed. By this juncture, he had gained the nickname of \"Dally\". It derived from a prominent politician of the 1880s, the then Attorney-General of New South Wales, William Bede Dalley, whose most conspicuous physical feature was a splendid pot belly – an anatomical augmentation that Herbert Henry Messenger happened to boast, too, when he was a small child. Fortunately, little Herbert Henry shed his pot belly as he grew older, together with the \"e\" from the spelling of his nickname.\n\nMessenger first took up competitive rugby in 1900, playing for a local rugby union club called the Warrigals in a semi-social club competition.\n\nOver the next few years Messenger continued to play with the Warrigals, persistently rejecting calls by officials of the Eastern Suburbs RUFC to move up to the higher standard of Sydney's grade competition.\n\nIn 1905 he finally began playing for Easts in the club's second-grade team, but showed sufficient promise to earn promotion to the first-grade side on two occasions that season. In that same season, he also purportedly played Australian rules football club in a number of first-grade matches in the Sydney competition.\nMessenger began the 1906 season in first grade with Easts as a 'standoff' (five-eighth). He swiftly won a following amongst the club's supporters due to his mesmeric ball skills, cheeky tricks, blistering acceleration and accurate short- and long-kicking game off either foot. Messenger moved to what would become his customary position of centre following his selection there for the New South Wales team in 1906. By the time of his Wallaby debut in 1907, he had made that position his own.\n\nIn the book \"Viewless Winds\", the 1906 representative footballer Paddy Moran wrote that Messenger's play \"was full of surprises, unorthodox, flash\" and \"directed largely by the unconscious mind\". He said that Messenger \"never became a slave to copybook practices\" because his \"instinct enabled him to see and take an opening in that operative second which is all-important\". Moran compared him to Bradman in terms of their mutual ability to instantaneously co-ordinate their bodies into the right position in apparently ample time before the ball would arrive.\n\nWhen talk of a professional rugby competition, or a \"Rugby League\", was being aired, Messenger was instantly interested by the development. He was approached by a consortium that included Test cricketer, Victor Trumper with friend J. J. Giltinan, who knew getting Messenger on board would be a major boost for the new code. He signed on with the new professional code in 1907. As the premier rugby footballer of the time, Messenger's signing is considered an integral moment in the foundation of rugby league. After he became a professional rugby league footballer, Messenger's rugby games were struck from the record books of the New South Wales Rugby Union and not restored for 100 years.\n\nMessenger played in the rebel series against a professional New Zealand team, the 'All Golds' as they were referred to, and was invited to tour England with the New Zealand professional side. It remains unclear whether this was a result of the form he showed in the series or if it had been agreed on as part of his sign-on fee with the new code. It was said, and believed as Messenger family folklore for years, that the signing of Messenger to rugby league was negotiated with Dally's mother Annie, and the promised amount for playing, at first, in three All Golds' games, was 50 pounds (based on increases in average earnings, this would be approximately £18,210 in 2015).\n\nIt was in the North of England that Messenger became more acquainted with the new game. By the completion of the tour Messenger had topped the tour aggregates by more than 100 points.\n\nOn arrival back in Australia, Dally played with the Eastern Suburbs club of the newly formed New South Wales Rugby Football League (NSWRFL), although a heavy representative schedule saw him play only a handful of matches for the club. Messenger's popularity helped showcase the new game and the NSWRFL took full advantage of this. He was selected to play in the first ever trans-Tasman test, which was the debut match of the Australia national rugby league team. In rugby league's first year, besides playing for his club, Messenger made representative appearances for Metropolis (Sydney), NSW and Australia as well as for New Zealand and, in one case, Queensland, he also represented Australasia.\nFollowing two heavy defeats, Messenger agreed to play for Queensland in a third match against New Zealand. The match ended in a 22 all draw with Messenger scoring nine of the 22 points.\nTowards the end of the 1908 season Messenger was again selected to tour England, this time with the first Kangaroos, or 'Pioneers'.\n\nHaving toured with the New Zealand professional team the previous year, Messenger was well known in the North of England and on arrival attained celebrity status. Placards bearing the words 'Messenger Will Play' were erected outside of grounds. Messenger was offered contracts by leading soccer clubs, including Glasgow Celtic, Newcastle United and Tottenham Hotspur, but refused them.\n\nMessenger captained Australia in the first two tests of the tour, missing the third through a knee injury incurred after regular field goal attempts. On tour Messenger was credited with numerous goals from the other side of half way, including one from the sideline on his own 25-yard line that appeared in earlier versions of the 'Guinness Book of World Records' as measuring over 80 yards (73m). Another from over 75 yards is mentioned in an English newspaper under the heading 'A Wonderful Kick' \".\" Quite a sensation was caused at last Saturday's football match when Mr Messenger kicked the ball from the 75 yards' mark and secured a goal...\"\n\nIn the second test Messenger is said to have scored one of the greatest individual tries ever witnessed in Test rugby league. At the end of the tour Messenger had again topped the aggregates, this time by just under 100 points.\n\nReturning home from the tour with injury and following a hectic schedule over the past few years, he elected to sit out most of the 1909 season, playing in just a few representative matches towards the end of the year. Messenger also rejected an offer to play with English club, Warrington, during the Australian off-season that year. Messenger was captain of Australia when they hosted the 1910 Great Britain Lions tourists.\nThe 1911 season has been acclaimed as Messenger's greatest. In 21 matches played he amassed a then record total of 270 points. In one interstate match for NSW he scored 32 points (from four tries and 10 goals). That record has only been equalled in recent years, with tries now being worth 4 points as opposed to 3. He amassed a total of 72 points for the three match series.\n\nRecently married Messenger stood down from the 1911–12 Kangaroo tour of Great Britain, leading his club Eastern Suburbs to its first premiership. In the semi-final that year against South Sydney Messenger scored 20 of Easts' 23 points. For each of the three consecutive seasons 1910, 1911 and 1912 he was the NSW Rugby Football League's top point scorer. In 1911 he overtook Arthur Conlin's record for the most points scored in an NSWRFL (101); Messenger's eventual total of 379 stood as the new career record until it was bettered by Harold Horder in 1918.\n\nAfter retirement from representative football, he led his side to a second premiership in 1912 and followed that with a third consecutive premiership in 1913. Easts were given permanent possession of the NSWRFL's first trophy, the Royal Agricultural Society Shield. On announcement of his retirement, the Eastern Suburbs club presented the shield to Messenger in appreciation.\n\nHe was awarded Life Membership of the New South Wales Rugby League in 1914.\n\nDally Messenger is listed on the Australian Players Register as Kangaroo No. 10.\n\nIn addition to his rugby prowess, Messenger was a talented cricketer, canoeist and sailor. After the end of his rugby league career, he ran a couple of hotels in Sydney and Manilla, New South Wales and a banana plantation in Mount Buderim, Queensland. He later worked as a carpenter in the NSW Department of Public Works.\nNone of his various business opportunities proved to be successful. In his later years, he lived in the New South Wales Rugby Leagues Club in Phillip Street. It was reported in the press that Dally Messenger had suffered a heart attack on 18 November 1959 and he died in Gunnedah six days later. His body was returned to Sydney for a large funeral and was buried on 26 November 1959 at the Eastern Suburbs Memorial Park : Anglican section FM DDD - Grave 321\n\nThe Courtney Goodwill Trophy, international rugby league's first trophy, was presented initially in 1936 and depicted Messenger, along with three other pioneering greats of the code, namely Jean Galia (France), Albert Baskiville (New Zealand) and James Lomas (Britain).\n\nThe Dally M. Medal is awarded annually to Australian rugby league's best player, as judged by an expert panel of commentators, whose votes are tallied at the conclusion of each regular playing season. A stand at the Sydney Cricket Ground has also named after Messenger, in recognition of his many outstanding games of club and representative football. In 2003 he was admitted into the Australian Rugby League Hall of Fame.\n\nIn 2004, the Royal Agricultural Society Shield held by Messenger's family became part of the National Museum of Australia collection.\n\nIn 2007, a century after he was shunned by rugby union for switching to rugby league for 180 pounds, his playing record was formally reinstated.\n\nIn February 2008, Messenger was named in a list of Australia's 100 greatest ever players (1908–2007) commissioned by the NRL / ARL to celebrate the code's Australian centenary year. Messenger went on to be named as an interchange player in Australian rugby league's \"Team of the Century\". Announced on 17 April 2008, the team was a selection panel's majority choice for each of the 13 starting positions and four interchange players.\n\nIn 2008 New South Wales announced their rugby league team of the century also, naming Messenger on the wing. If he were playing today, however, because of the increased average size of footballers, he would probably play as a (scrum-half).\n\nMessenger was immortalised in 2008 by a life-size bronze sculpture created by artist Cathy Weiszmann and erected outside the Sydney Football Stadium. The statue forms the second sculpture in an envisaged 10-part series for the Sydney Cricket Ground Trust's \"Basil Sellers Sports Sculptures Project\".\n\nJoining fellow pre-WWII greats Dave Brown and Frank Burge, Messenger was inducted as a Rugby League Immortal in 2018, along with recent greats Norm Provan and Mal Meninga.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2072805", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2072805", "title": "Vehicle registration plates of the United States Army in Germany", "text": "Vehicle registration plates of the United States Army in Germany\n\nFrom 2000 to 2006, private vehicles belonging to American Service personnel and dependent family members based in Germany carried a distinct series of German-style number plates.\n\nTheir plates carried the NATO insignia on a blue background instead of the EU stars, the USA country code, and registration numbers starting with AD, AF or HK, while numbers starting in IF on similar plates were used for official NATO vehicles of all non-German nationalities.\n\nThe plates' upper sticker showed the expiry date of the plate, rather than technical fitness as the German one does. Furthermore, unlike the German one this sticker is punched to indicate clearly the date. The lower sticker showed the text: \"Streitkräfte der Vereinigten Staaten von Amerika in Deutschland\" (Armed Forces of the USA in Germany). US-market vehicles without proper mounting brackets for European-standard plates received plates made to a small size which is in Germany normally dedicated for light motorcycles or agricultural vehicles.\n\nWhen the US forces began using this system, they chose the first two-letter codes not yet used in the German registration system, namely AD (standard size) and AF (small size). After some time they realized that AF could be easily interpreted as Armed Forces or Air Force, defeating the purpose of using German-style plates. So they discontinued issuing plates with \"AF\" and began using \"HK\" (which is now used by the German district Heidekreis) instead. For official vehicles the code \"IF\" is used with standard-size plates. By law the vehicles must carry the \"USA\" sticker since they are registered by a non-European Union country. But in this special matter this law is not enforced in Germany with US Army vehicles. When traveling outside Germany, US military laws required that USA sticker be displayed on the rear of the car. Since the change to local German plates (see below) this rule is no longer valid.\n\nIn 2005, the US Forces in Germany decided that service members' private vehicles should carry normal German plates for security reasons. Re-registering with German plates began in December 2005. Each vehicle now displays the prefix for the area where the owner registered the vehicle (i.e. Frankfurt, Bamberg, Heidelberg, Kaiserslautern or Würzburg area), just like a regular German vehicle; the only difference is that they will be exempt from German tax and safety inspections (TÜV), but since the change the vehicles have to comply with EU sound regulations, are not allowed to have their front windows tinted and have to comply with all EU safety regulations. The US vehicles do not have to comply with EU lighting and emission regulations since the US standards are different.\n\nAt the end of 2008 the US Forces started to introduce a new plate for temporary registration of vehicles (transfer plates). The small-size version with the blue strip \"USA\" and NATO insignia is in use. The red letters are in FE-style and the code follows the format \"T xx yyyyy\". The \"T\" happens to be short for either \"temporary\" or \"transfer\", but was primarily chosen because it is not used by any German registration district, therefore avoiding overlaps with actual German plates. The \"xx\" is the code for the local headquarters and \"yyyyy\" a 5-digit serial number filled with zeros if necessary. This kind of plate carries no stickers.\n"}
{"id": "2072812", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2072812", "title": "Frank (Amy Winehouse album)", "text": "Frank (Amy Winehouse album)\n\nFrank is the debut studio album by English singer and songwriter Amy Winehouse. It was released on 20 October 2003 by Island Records. Production for the album took place during 2002 to 2003 and was handled by Winehouse, Salaam Remi, Commissioner Gordon, Jimmy Hogarth and Matt Rowe. Its title alludes to the nature and tone of Winehouse's lyrics on the album, as well as one of her influences, Frank Sinatra.\n\nUpon its release, \"Frank\" received generally positive reviews from most music critics and earned Winehouse several accolades, including an Ivor Novello Award. The album has sold over one million copies in the United Kingdom and has been certified triple platinum by the British Phonographic Industry (BPI).\n\nAfter playing around with her brother's guitar, Winehouse bought her own when she was 14 and began writing music a year later. Soon after, she began working for a living, including, at one time, as an entertainment journalist for the World Entertainment News Network, in addition to singing with local group the Bolsha Band. In July 2000, she became the featured female vocalist with the National Youth Jazz Orchestra; her influences were to include Sarah Vaughan and Dinah Washington, the latter whom she was already listening to at home. \n\nWinehouse's best friend, soul singer Tyler James, sent her demo tape to an A&R executive. Winehouse signed to Simon Fuller's 19 Management in 2002 and was paid £250 a week against future earnings. While being developed by the management company, she was kept as a recording industry secret, although she was a regular jazz standards singer at the Cobden Club. Her soon-to-be A&R representative at Island Records, Darcus Beese, heard of her by accident when the manager of The Lewinson Brothers showed him some productions of his clients, which featured Winehouse as key vocalist. When he asked who the singer was, the manager told him he was not allowed to say. Having decided that he wanted to sign her, it took several months of asking around for Beese to eventually discover who the singer was. However, Winehouse had already recorded a number of songs and signed a publishing deal with EMI by this time. She formed a working relationship with producer Salaam Remi through these record publishers.\n\nBeese introduced Winehouse to his boss, Nick Gatfield, and the Island head shared his enthusiasm in signing her. Winehouse was signed to Island, as rival interest in Winehouse had started to build to include representatives of EMI and Virgin starting to make moves. Beese told HitQuarters that he felt the reason behind the excitement, over an artist who was an atypical pop star for the time, was due to a backlash against reality TV music shows, which included audiences starved for fresh, genuine young talent.\n\nIn a 2004 interview with \"The Observer\", Winehouse expressed dissatisfaction with the album, stating: \nSome things on this album make me go to a little place that's fucking bitter. I've never heard the album from start to finish. I don't have it in my house. Well, the marketing was fucked, the promotion was terrible. Everything was a shambles. It's frustrating, because you work with so many idiots—but they're nice idiots. So you can't be like, \"You're an idiot.\" They know that they're idiots.\n\nIn the liner notes for Winehouse's 2011 album \"\", producer Salaam Remi wrote about the track \"Half Time\", an outtake from the recording sessions for \"Frank\", and revealed that \"Frank\"s title refers partly to Frank Sinatra, an early influence on Winehouse.\n\n\"Frank\" was first released in the United Kingdom on 20 October 2003 through Island Records. In 2004, the album was released to European countries, including Poland and Germany, as well as being released in Canada through Universal Music Group.\nIn 2007 the album was released once again to Australia in March and the United States in November, with the latter being released via Universal Republic Records.\n\nIn 2008, the album was re-released as a deluxe edition, including an 18-track bonus disc of rare tracks, remixes, B-sides and live performances. It was first released in Germany on 9 May 2008, followed by its release in the United Kingdom on 12 May 2008 through Island Records. Over May, June and July the album was released in Australia, Canada, United States and Japan.\n\nFollowing the release of the critically acclaimed documentary film about Winehouse, \"Amy\" (2015), \"Frank\" was reissued on vinyl on 31 July 2015 by Republic Records.\n\n\"Frank\" received generally positive reviews from contemporary music critics. At Metacritic, which assigns a normalised rating out of 100 to reviews from mainstream publications, the album received an average score of 78, based on 11 reviews. AllMusic's John Bush called Winehouse \"an excellent vocalist possessing both power and subtlety\". Nate Chinen of \"The New York Times\" complimented her original lyrics and called the music a \"glossy admixture of breezy funk, dub and jazz-inflected soul\". \"The A.V. Club\"s Nathan Rabin commended its loose, organic songcraft and wrote that it \"features languid, wide-open neo-soul grooves and jazzy vamping\". Beccy Lindon of \"The Guardian\" described Winehouse's sound as \"somewhere between Nina Simone and Erykah Badu ... at once innocent and sleazy\". \"Entertainment Weekly\"s Chris Willman found its musical style reminiscent of Sade. \"MusicOMH\"s John Murphy said that her lyrics are \"commendably feisty and, as the album title suggests, frank\". Dan Cairns of \"The Times\" called \"Frank\" \"a staggeringly assured, sit-up-and-listen debut, both commercial and eclectic, accessible and uncompromising\". Robert Christgau, writing for MSN Music, was less enthusiastic and graded the album a \"dud\", indicating \"a bad record whose details rarely merit further thought.\"\n\nWinehouse was nominated for British Female Solo Artist and British Urban Act at the 2004 BRIT Awards, while \"Frank\" was shortlisted for the Mercury Music Prize that same year. The album earned Winehouse an Ivor Novello Award. In retrospective reviews for both \"Pitchfork\" and \"Rolling Stone\", critic Douglas Wolk was ambivalent towards Winehouse's themes and felt that they are relevant to her public image at the time, writing in the former review, \"in the light of her subsequent career, \"Frank\" comes off as the first chapter in the Romantic myth of the poet who feels too deeply and ends up killing herself for her audience's entertainment\". By contrast, \"PopMatters\" writer Mike Joseph felt that the album shows that Winehouse’s success is \"based on pure talent rather than good producers or gimmicks\". \"The Washington Post\"s Bill Friskics-Warren noted most of its content as \"sultry ballads and shambling neo-soul jams\", while writing that it \"more than confirms what the fuss over Winehouse – then just 19 and with a lot fewer tattoos – was originally all about... her attitude and command were already there. And then some\". The album was also included in the book \"1001 Albums You Must Hear Before You Die\". In 2019, the album was ranked 57th on \"The Guardian\"'s 100 Best Albums of the 21st Century list.\n\n\"Frank\" entered the UK Albums Chart at number 60 before climbing to number 13 in late January 2004. Following Winehouse's death on 23 July 2011, the album re-entered the UK chart at number five, before reaching a new peak position of number three the following week, with 19,811 copies sold. The album was certified triple platinum by the British Phonographic Industry (BPI) on 19 December 2008, and had sold over one million copies as of September 2014.\n\n\"Frank\" debuted at number 61 on the \"Billboard\" 200 in the United States, selling 22,000 copies in its opening week. In the wake of Winehouse's death, the album sold 8,000 copies to re-enter the chart at number 57 on the issue dated 6 August 2011. The following week, it rose to a new peak of number 33 with sales of 12,000 copies. The album had sold 315,000 copies in the US by July 2011.\n\nElsewhere, the album charted inside the top five in Austria and Poland, and the top 10 in France, Germany, Ireland, Italy, Netherlands and Portugal. In late 2011, \"Frank\" was certified double platinum by the International Federation of the Phonographic Industry (IFPI) for sales in excess of two million copies across Europe.\n\nNotes\n\nCredits adapted from the liner notes of \"Frank\".\n\nBibliography\n\n"}
{"id": "2072817", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2072817", "title": "Bob Berg", "text": "Bob Berg\n\nRobert Berg (April 7, 1951 – December 5, 2002) was an American jazz saxophonist.\n\nBerg started his musical education at the age of six when he began studying classical piano. He began playing the saxophone at the age of thirteen. He studied at the High School of Performing Arts and Juilliard before leaving school to tour. Berg was influenced by the late 1964–67 period of John Coltrane's music.\n\nA student from the hard bop school, Berg played from 1973 to 1976 with Horace Silver and from 1977 to 1983 with Cedar Walton. Berg became more widely known when he joined Miles Davis band in 1984.\nAfter leaving Davis's band in 1987, Berg released a series of solo albums and also performed and recorded frequently in a group co-led with guitarist Mike Stern. On these albums he played a more accessible style of music, mixing funk, jazz and even country music with many other diverse compositional elements to produce albums. He often played at the 7th Avenue South NYC club. He worked with Chick Corea, Steve Gadd and Eddie Gómez in a quartet. Berg's tenor saxophone sound was a synthesis of rhythm and blues players such as Junior Walker and Arnett Cobb with the lyricism, intellectual freedom and soul of Wayne Shorter, Joe Henderson and John Coltrane.\n\nBerg was killed in a traffic accident in East Hampton, New York, while driving near his home with his wife. The person who crashed into his car was driving a cement truck that skidded on ice.\n\n\nWith Tom Harrell\n\nWith Sam Jones\n\nWith Horace Silver\n\nWith Leni Stern\n\nWith Mike Stern\n\nWith Cedar Walton\n\nWith others\n\n"}
{"id": "2072822", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2072822", "title": "Members of the Australian Senate, 1993–1996", "text": "Members of the Australian Senate, 1993–1996\n\nThis is a list of members of the Australian Senate from 1993 to 1996. Half of the state senators had been elected at the March 1990 election and had terms due to finish on 30 June 1996; the other half of the state senators were elected at the March 1993 election and had terms due to finish on 30 June 1999. The territory senators were elected at the March 1993 election and their terms ended at the next federal election, which was March 1996.\n\n"}
{"id": "2072831", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2072831", "title": "Trevenna", "text": "Trevenna\n\nTrevenna is the residence of the Vice-Chancellor of the University of New England, in Armidale, New South Wales, Australia. The house was built in 1892 and is located off Trevenna Road on the western side of the main campus in Armidale. There is no public access to the property or gardens, but the gardens have been open for public viewing, on several occasions in recent years.\n\nDesigned by Canadian-born, Boston-trained architect, John Horbury Hunt (1838–1904), Trevenna was originally the home of the Wrights, a prominent New England family of graziers. It was originally built for Mrs Eliza Jane Wright. The homestead and its grounds were bequeathed to UNE as the Vice-Chancellor's residence in 1960 by Mrs Florence May Wilson.\n\nThe Vice-Chancellors who have resided at Trevenna are:\n\n\nThe house itself comprises three storeys and features an imposing main entrance on the southern side. Some of the trees in its garden, including horse chestnuts, pines and planes, date back to the 1890s when Trevenna was built. The garden is constructed on several levels. A sunken garden, complete with stone sundial and fish pond, is on one side of the house, while on the other a series of hedges encloses a private lawn. The grounds also feature a gardener's shed, the smaller Trevenna Cottage, and a clay tennis court. They also include a herb garden and orchard and numerous dry-stone walls, some of which have been overplanted with ivy hedges. A private gravel road of 300 metres, lined with pines and lamp posts on either side, leads off Trevenna Road and winds through parklands up to the house.\n\nThe front garden slopes away into a series of hedges and wide perennial borders lead the eye across the Bellevue area of the University with the city of Armidale and Mount Duval in the distance. Trevenna's gardens were the feature of a \"Woman's Weekly\" special in 1971.\n"}
{"id": "2072832", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2072832", "title": "Casimir (dinosaur)", "text": "Casimir (dinosaur)\n\nCasimir, an anthropomorphic orange dinosaur with yellow and red spots, was the main host of the French TV show \"l'Île aux enfants\", played by Yves Brunier in a costume.\n\nHe appeared for the first time on television on September 16, 1974 on French television. The show was broadcast first on FR3 before being broadcast for seven consecutive seasons on TF1. The show was cancelled on June 30, 1982.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2072846", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2072846", "title": "Jean-Jacques Burlamaqui", "text": "Jean-Jacques Burlamaqui\n\nJean-Jacques Burlamaqui (; 24 June or 13 July 1694 – 3 April 1748) was a Genevan legal and political theorist who popularised a number of ideas propounded by other thinkers.\n\nBorn in Geneva, Republic of Geneva, into a Calvinist family (descended from the wealthy 16th-century Italian merchant of Lucca executed for his Republican sentiments) who had taken refuge \"religionis causa\", he studied law and at 25 he was designated honorary professor of ethics and the law of nature at the university of Geneva. Before taking up the appointment, he travelled through France and England, and made the acquaintance of the most eminent writers of the period.\n\nOn his return he began to lecture and soon gained a wide reputation for the simplicity of his style and the precision of his views. He continued to lecture for 15 years, when he was compelled on ill health to resign. His fellow citizens at once elected him a member of the council of state, and he gained as high a reputation for his practical sagacity as he had for his theoretical knowledge. He died in Geneva.\n\nHis works were \"Principes du droit naturel\" (1747) and \"Principes du droit politique\" (1751). These have passed through many editions, and were very extensively used as textbooks. Burlamaqui's style is simple and clear, and his arrangement of the material good. His fundamental principle may be described as rational utilitarianism and represents a digest of the thoughts of like-minded theorists, particularly Richard Cumberland and Hugo Grotius.\n\nBurlamaqui's treatise \"The Principles of Natural and Politic Law\" was translated into six languages (besides the original French) in 60 editions. His vision of constitutionalism had a major influence on the American Founding Fathers: \"Early American thought also drew on ideas circulating on the Continent. The author who played the greatest part in transmitting those ideas over the Atlantic was the Swiss writer Jean-Jacques Burlamaqui, now almost forgotten, but at one time a best-selling author.\" For example, his understanding of checks and balances was much more sophisticated and practical than that of Montesquieu, in part because Burlamaqui's theory contained the seed of judicial review. He was frequently quoted or paraphrased, only sometimes attributed, in political sermons during the pre-revolutionary era. He was the first philosopher to articulate the quest for happiness as a natural right, a principle that Thomas Jefferson later restated in the Declaration of Independence.\n\nBurlamaqui's description of European countries as forming \"a kind of republic the members of which, independent but bound by common interest, come together to maintain order and liberty\" is quoted by Michel Foucault in his 1978 lectures at the Collège de France in the context of a discussion of diplomacy and the law of nations.\n"}
{"id": "2072849", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2072849", "title": "Lath", "text": "Lath\n\nA lath or slat is a thin, narrow strip of straight-grained wood used under roof shingles or tiles, on lath and plaster walls and ceilings to hold plaster, and in lattice and trellis work.\n\"Lath\" has expanded to mean any type of backing material for plaster. This includes metal wire mesh or expanded metal that is applied to a wood or metal framework as matrix over which stucco or plaster is applied, as well as wallboard products called gypsum or rock lath. Historically, reed mat was also used as a lath material. \n\nOne of the key elements of lath, whether wooden slats or wire mesh, are the openings or gaps that allow plaster or stucco to ooze behind and form a mechanical bond to the lath. This is not necessary for gypsum lath, which relies on a chemical bond.\n\nThe word is recorded from the late 13th century and is likely derived from the Old English word *, a variant of . This in turn would seem to stem from a Proto-Germanic word *\"laþþo\", from which have sprung words in many Germanic languages, e.g. Dutch , German . The root has also found its way into Romance languages, cf. Italian , French . The related German word () denotes a board, plank, sash, shutter, counter and hence also a shop.\n\nWooden-slat laths are still used today in building construction to form a base or groundwork for plaster, but modern lath and plaster applications are mostly limited to conservation projects.\n\nTiles, slates, and other coverings on roofs and walls are often fastened to laths, sometimes also called battens or slats. Such strips of wood are also employed to form lattice-work, or are used as the bars of Venetian blinds, and window shutters.\n\nLath is also used on many tobacco farms in the Connecticut Valley as a means to carry and hang the plant in barns. This is achieved by using one of two methods: hooking or spearing. A \"spear\" lath is a regular lath that is held in an upright position. A worker then mounts a spear on top and \"spears\" the tobacco onto the lath. The other form of lath is called \"hook\" lath, which has small hooks attached that allows workers to hook the stems of tobacco plants onto the lath, often between two lengths of twine attached to the lath and twisted mechanically. \n\nA lathhouse is an open structure roofed with laths in order to grow plants which need shelter from the sun. \n\nLaths were also used to fix reeds to a timber structure before plastering. \n\nIn Cape Cod, laths were used in the early 1880s for building wooden lobster traps.\n\nHistorically there were three ways of making wood lath for plaster: riven lath, accordion lath, and circular sawn lath. Riven lath was traditionally split with the grain from chestnut, oak, and similar hardwoods, or from softwoods like eastern white pine. Individual laths were riven and nailed in place. Because they are split with the grain, riven lath is stronger than later forms of lath production. Accordion laths are thin, sawn boards that are partially split with a hatchet or axe. The splits are then spread apart to form gaps for the plaster to key into. The name derived from the spreading action, which is like pulling an accordion open. After the circular saw came into use in the early 19th century, lath for plastering was sawn in sawmills and delivered to the building site.\n\nCounter-lath is a term used in roofing and plastering for a piece of wood placed perpendicular to the lath. In roofing, a counter-lath is a slight piece of timber parallel with and between common rafters to give the lath extra support, or a lath placed by eye between every two gauged ones. When plastering, sometimes a counter-lath is placed perpendicular to the lath as a fillet (a thin, narrow strip of material) to space the lath off of the surface to allow the plaster to pass through the lath and create a key.\n\nMetal lath dates from the late 19th century and is used extensively today with plaster and stucco in home and commercial construction. In addition to providing a matrix to which the stucco can adhere, metal lath adds strength and rigidity. . Metal lath can be stapled directly to studs, and is capable of bending to easily form corners and curves. Three coats of plaster are required when using metal lath.\n\nSeveral types of metal lath have been developed for a variety of applications:\n\nGypsum lath (rock lath) consists of gypsum plaster sandwiched between two sheets of absorbent paper. The finish side (to which plaster is trawled) is treated with gypsum crystals for the plaster to chemically bond to and is sometimes perforated to allow mechanical bonding.  It was commonly used in place of wood lath since it is noncombustible, easy to use, and can give better results. Gypsum board can be purchased in sheets of various sizes and screwed or nailed directly onto a building’s studs. Due to its rigidity, it is most suited for use on straight walls.\n\nGypsum board was improved in 1910 by the paper wrapping the edges and multiple variations were developed in the 1930s. Gypsum lath is available with a foil facing, which acts as a vapor barrier and heat reflector, and as a veneer base for plaster veneer.\n\nKeys are formed by plaster that oozes through the spaces or gaps between wooden lath, or the holes in metal lath, and around to the lath’s backside. This secures the plaster to the lath by creating a sort of hook. Wooden and metal lath depend on the mechanical bond created by keys to adhere the plaster to the lath.\n\nLath can be attached directly to the frame of a building, such as the studs of a timber structure. Alternatively, lath can be attached to a timber or metal frame called a furring, which is then attached to the building structure. Furrings are often used in masonry construction. Frames are also used when using lath and plaster to create decorative, curved, or ornamental work.\n\nThere are several reasons that a plaster and lath wall may fail. First, the lath itself can sometimes pull away from the frame on which it is mounted. This is generally due to the use of non-galvanized nails. The lath can also fail because of decay from moisture or insect damage. Moisture can also cause wooden lath to expand and contract, causing the plaster around it to crack.\n\nAdditionally, failure can also occur in the plaster keys. Over time, the keys can deteriorate and crack, weakening their ability to hold the plaster onto the lath. The addition of hair in plaster helps to prevent this by adding strength. Problems can also occur in the keys if they were not properly formed to begin with, which can happen when laths are set too close together for plaster to travel though. Key failure often manifests as looseness and sagging in walls or ceilings, and in worst cases can lead to plaster breakage and collapse.\n\nRepairing damaged lath and plaster walls is generally more economical than replacing it. Often, the plaster needs the repairs, and not the lath itself. As long as the lath and the first coats (brown coat) of plaster do not have any significant damage, minor cracks can simply be patched. For larger cracks, and when the brown coat is damaged, several base coats need to be applied prior to the patch coat. Metal lath can also be added to wooden lath prior to coating to add strength and increase keying.\n\nIf the backside of the lath is accessible, it is possible to create new keys where they have failed. This is most often done by conservators when one wants to maintain the original finished surface of the wall or ceiling. After bracing the failing plaster in place, a bonding agent and a plaster are applied to the back of the laths and forced through the gaps to the backside of the original plaster.\n\nLath and plaster walls have several benefits, including fire and mold resistance, soundproofing, and heat insulation. Though wooden lath can be susceptible to mold growth and decay, metal lath covered in plaster creates an environment that is inhospitable to toxic molds. Metal lath and plaster walls can be twice as resistant to fire than drywall, and are capable of achieving a two-hour fire rating with a assembly. 2 inches of plaster and lath can also achieve the same decibel rating as of drywall.\n\n"}
{"id": "2072850", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2072850", "title": "M1941 Johnson machine gun", "text": "M1941 Johnson machine gun\n\nThe M1941 Johnson Light Machine Gun, also known as the \"Johnson\" and the \"Johnny gun\", was an American recoil-operated light machine gun designed in the late 1930s by Melvin Johnson. It shared the same operating principle and many parts with the M1941 Johnson rifle and the M1947 Johnson auto carbine.\n\nThe M1941 light machine gun was designed by a Boston lawyer and Captain in the Marine Corps Reserve named Melvin Johnson Jr. His goal was to build a semi-automatic rifle that would outperform the M1 the Army had adopted. By late 1937, he had designed, built, and successfully tested both a semi-automatic rifle and a prototype light machine gun. Each shared a significant number of physical characteristics and common parts, and both operated on the principle of short recoil with a rotating bolt. He took the parts of other guns, switching them out and creating the M1941 light machine gun.\n\nJohnson's curved, single-column magazine attached to the left side of the receiver; company brochures list a 20-round magazine as standard. Additionally, the weapon could be loaded by stripper clip at the ejection port, or by single rounds fed into the breech. The rate of fire was adjustable, from 200 to 600 rounds per minute. Two versions were built: the M1941 with a wooden stock and a metal bipod, and the M1944 with a tubular steel butt and a wooden monopod.\n\nThe design intended the recoil forces to travel, along with the mass of the weapon's moving parts, in a direct line to the shoulder of the gunner. While this design minimized muzzle climb, the sights had to be placed higher above the bore.\nThe weapon has many parallels with the German FG 42. Both feed from the left side, and both fire from an open bolt while in automatic, and a closed bolt while in semi-auto. Both weapons were awkward to carry loaded, with a side-mounted magazine; the Johnson had an especially lengthy single-column magazine, and this feature tended to unbalance the weapon. Despite these similarities, there is no evidence that either weapon had any effect on the design of the other. Both weapons attempted to solve similar problems, and adopted similar solutions.\n\nPrototypes of semi-automatic rifles, 20-round magazine-fed, based on the Johnson LMG were also produced. The M1947 Johnson auto carbine is an example. A belt fed variant also existed.\n\nJohnson sold small quantities of the Johnson LMG to the U.S. Army and Marine Corps.\n\nDuring the Second World War, Special Forces within the Allies demanded a more portable, lighter, more accurate automatic rifle that provided the equivalent stopping power of the American BAR. As a result, this machine gun was adapted as the BAR replacement for commandos operating behind Axis lines. The First Special Service Force, raised jointly with men from both Canada and the United States (the famous Devil's Brigade), traded the Marine Corps 125 of the new Johnson light machine guns for plastic explosives. They were used in lieu of BARs, but as they wore out and were lost in combat they were replaced by BARs.\n\nThe Johnson LMG was used by the Philippine Army and Philippine Constabulary during World War II under the Japanese Military Occupation from 1942 to 1945 and post-war from 1945 to 1960s including during the Hukbalahap Rebellion (1946-1954) and by the Philippine Expeditionary Forces to Korea or PEFTOK (1950-1955).\n\nShortly after the 1948 Arab-Israeli War, the predecessor of the Israel Defense Forces, Haganah, developed a close copy of the Johnson LMG, the Dror, in both .303 British and 7.92×57mm Mauser. Israeli forces found the Dror prone to jam from sand and dust ingress, and the weapon was discontinued after a brief period of service. Ernesto \"Che\" Guevara notably used a Johnson in the Cuban Revolution.\n\nMelvin Johnson continued to develop small arms. In 1955, he was asked to assist Fairchild/ArmaLite in (unsuccessfully) promoting Eugene Stoner's AR-10 rifle with the U.S. Department of Defense, then with ArmaLite and Colt's Manufacturing Company as an advocate for the AR-15. Armalite relied heavily on Johnson's efforts and the AR-15 used a similar bolt design to the M1941 Johnson. The AR-15 is still produced today by numerous manufacturers, as is its derivative, the M16 rifle. One of Johnson's last postwar firearms ventures was a 5.7 mm-caliber version of the M1 carbine, aka 'the Spitfire'.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2072854", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2072854", "title": "Fraser Ayres", "text": "Fraser Ayres\n\nFraser Stuart Ayres (born 1980) is an English actor, best known for his role as Clint in the BBC comedy series \"The Smoking Room\".\n\nAyres first joined the youth core at the Haymarket Theatre in Leicester and has done other television including \"Bella and The Boys\", \"Unconditional Love\", \"London's Burning\", \"The Vice\" and \"Trail Of Guilt\". His stage work brought him Best Actor awards for his performance in \"The People Next Door\" and he has also starred in \"Ramayana\", \"Telling Tales\", \"Four and Bluebird\", \"Workers Writes\", \"Vurt\", \"Sandman\", and \"Mercury Fur\". His film work includes \"Revenger's Tragedy\", \"Intimacy\", \"It Was An Accident\", \"Speak Like A Child\", \"Dinner For Two\", \"Rage\", and \"Kevin & Perry Go Large\". He played \"Ray\" in the BBC Three drama pilot \"West 10 LDN (also known as W10 LDN)\". In 2007, Ayres appeared in \"Little Miss Jocelyn\" and in 2011, he starred in the one off BBC Christmas show, \"Lapland\". In 2015 Ayres appeared as Theo Bainbridge in the ITV series \"Midsomer Murders\" episode 17.2 \"Murder by Magic\".\n\nIn 2016, Ayres joined the cast of the Talawa Theatre Company and Royal Exchange Manchester co-production of King Lear. The Daily Telegraph praised \"\"Fraser Ayres’s chillingly sociopathic Edmund, the amoral face of an emerging, modern calculating politics\"\", \n\nDuring 2017 he was cast in the part of Rich Collis, a menacing drug dealer and money launderer, in the long-running ITV continuing drama \"Coronation Street\".\n"}
{"id": "2072855", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2072855", "title": "Decanter", "text": "Decanter\n\nA decanter is a vessel that is used to hold the decantation of a liquid (such as wine) which may contain sediment. Decanters, which have a varied shape and design, have been traditionally made from glass or crystal. Their volume is usually equivalent to one standard bottle of wine (0.75 litre). \n\nA carafe, which is also traditionally used for serving alcoholic beverages, is similar in design to a decanter but is not supplied with a stopper.\n\nThroughout the history of wine, decanters have played a significant role in the serving of wine. The vessels would be filled with wine from amphoras and brought to the table where they could be more easily handled by a single servant. \n\nThe Ancient Romans pioneered the use of glass as a material. After the fall of the Western Roman Empire, glass production became scarce causing the majority of decanters to be made of bronze, silver, gold, or earthenware. The Venetians reintroduced glass decanters during the Renaissance period and pioneered the style of a long slender neck that opens to a wide body, increasing the exposed surface area of the wine, allowing it to react with air. \n\nIn the 1730s, British glass makers introduced the stopper to limit exposure to air. Since then, there has been little change to the basic design of the decanter. \n\nAlthough conceived for wine, other alcoholic beverages, such as cognac or single malt Scotch whisky, are often stored and served in stoppered decanters. Certain cognacs and malt whiskies are sold in decanters such as the 50-year-old single malt Dalmore or the Bowmore Distillery 22 Year Old.\n\nLiquid from another vessel is poured into the decanter in order to separate a small volume of liquid, containing the sediment, from a larger volume of \"clear\" liquid, which is free of such. In the process, the sediment is left in the original vessel, and the clear liquid is transferred to the decanter. This is analogous to racking, but performed just before serving.\n\nDecanters have been used for serving wines that are laden with sediments in the original bottle. These sediments could be the result of a very old wine or one that was not filtered or clarified during the winemaking process. In most modern winemaking, the need to decant for this purpose has been significantly reduced, because many wines no longer produce a significant amount of sediment as they age.\n\nBaskets called decanting cradles, usually made of wicker or metal, are used to decant bottles that have been stored on their side without needing to turn them upright, thereby stirring up sediment. These are particularly useful in restaurants, for service of a wine ordered during a meal, but less important at home, where a bottle can be stood upright the day before.\n\nMore complicated s also exist to facilitate smoothly pouring, without disturbing sediment.\n\nAnother reason for decanting wine is to aerate it, or allow it to \"breathe\". The decanter is meant to mimic the effects of swirling the wine glass to stimulate the oxidation processes which triggers the release of more aromatic compounds. In addition it is thought to benefit the wine by smoothing some of the harsher aspects of the wine (like tannins or potential wine faults like mercaptans). \n\nMany wine writers, such as author Karen MacNeil in the book \"The Wine Bible\", advocate decanting for the purposes of aeration, especially with very tannic wines like Barolo, Bordeaux, Cabernet Sauvignon, Port, and Rhône wines while noting that decanting could be harmful for more delicate wines like Chianti and Pinot noir.\n\nHowever, the effectiveness of decanting is a topic of debate, with some wine experts such as oenologist Émile Peynaud claiming that the prolonged exposure to oxygen actually diffuses and dissipates more aroma compounds than it stimulates, in contrast to the effects of the smaller scale exposure and immediate release that swirling the wine in a drinker's glass has. \n\nIn addition it has been reported that the process of decanting over a period of a few hours does not have the effect of softening tannins. The softening of tannins occurs during the winemaking and oak aging when tannins go through a process of polymerization that can last days or weeks; decanting merely alters the perception of sulfites and other chemical compounds in the wine through oxidation, which can give some drinkers the sense of softer tannins in the wine. \n\nIn line with the view that decanting can dissipate aromas, wine expert Kerin O'Keefe prefers to let the wine evolve slowly and naturally in the bottle, by uncorking it a few hours ahead, a practice suggested by wine producers such as Bartolo Mascarello and Franco Biondi Santi. \n\nOther wine experts, such as writer Jancis Robinson, tout the aesthetic value of using a decanter, especially one with an elegant design and made with clear glass, and believe that for all but the most fragile of wines that there is not much significant damage to the wine by decanting it. A decanter can also be used to present wine anonymously.\n"}
{"id": "2072863", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2072863", "title": "Thomas Ide", "text": "Thomas Ide\n\nThomas Ranald \"Ran\" Ide, (February 20, 1919 – October 23, 1996) was a Canadian educator and the founding Chairman of TVOntario.\n\nBorn in Ottawa, he received a degree in economics and served in the Royal Canadian Air Force during World War II.\n\nIde first got involved in broadcasting while he was a teenager in Saint John, New Brunswick and had an after school job doing movie reviews at a radio station.\n\nAfter the war, he became a high school teacher in Port Arthur, Ontario and eventually became principal of Port Arthur Collegiate Institute and then, in 1965, superintendent of schools in the area.\n\nIn 1966, he was appointed director of educational television at the Ontario Ministry of Education by then Minister of Education Bill Davis. His unit bought air time from the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation and produced 150 programs in the first year. He helped create the Ontario Educational Communications Authority serving as its first chairman from 1970 to 1979. OECA launched its own television station in 1970, CICA, broadcasting from Toronto; by 1979 what had become TVOntario employed a staff of 400 and had transmitters across the province reaching 85% of Ontario's population and 88% of its schools.\n\nIde faced controversy in 1978 when he backed the production of \"The Jesus Trial\", a series in which historical scholars staged a mock trial of Jews for the murder of Christ. The series was acclaimed by theologians and academics but was criticized by the Roman Catholic archdiocese in Toronto which pressured the provincial government to cancel the series. It aired but, the next year, the government of Bill Davis cut TVO's budget for the first time.\n\nAfter retiring from TVO in 1979 Ide chaired the federal Department of Communications Research Advisory Board, the Science Council of Canada's Communications board and served as acting vice-president of planning at the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation.\n\nIn 1995, he was made an Officer of the Order of Canada. He died of leukemia in 1996. Former Premier Davis delivered a eulogy at Ide's memorial service.\n"}
{"id": "2072868", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2072868", "title": "Harrington rod", "text": "Harrington rod\n\nThe Harrington rod (or Harrington implant) is a stainless steel surgical device. Historically, this rod was implanted along the spinal column to treat, among other conditions, a lateral or coronal-plane curvature of the spine, or scoliosis. Up to one million people had Harrington rods implanted for scoliosis between the early 1960s and the late 1990s.\n\nThe Harrington implant was developed in 1953 by Paul Harrington, a professor of orthopedic surgery at Baylor College of Medicine in Houston, Texas. \n\nHarrington rods were intended to provide a means to reduce the curvature and to provide more stability to a spinal fusion. Before the Harrington rod was invented, scoliosis patients had their spines fused without any instrumentation to support it; such fusions required many months in plaster casts, and large curvatures could progress despite fusion.\n\nHarrington rod instrumentation was used to treat instability and deformity of the spine. Instability occurs when the spine no longer maintains its normal shape during movement. Such instability results in nerve damage, spinal deformities, and disabling pain. Spinal deformities may be caused by birth defects, fractures, marfan syndrome, neurofibromatosis, neuromuscular diseases, severe injuries, and tumors. By far, the most common use for the Harrington rod was in the treatment of scoliosis, for which it was invented.\n\nThe device itself was a stainless steel distraction rod fitted with hooks at both ends and a ratchet and was implanted through an extensive posterior spinal approach, the hooks being secured onto the vertebral laminae. It was used at the beginning without performing a spinal fusion but early results proved fusion as part of the procedure was mandatory, as movement of the unfused spine would cause the metal to fatigue and eventually break. The procedure required the use of a postoperative plaster cast or bracing until vertebral fusion had occurred. \n\nFlatback syndrome is a problem that develops in some patients treated with Harrington rod instrumentation, where the rod extends down into lower part of the lumbar spine. Because the Harrington cannot follow the natural lordosis of the lower back (i.e. the backwaist curve), the spine is straightened out into an unnatural position. At first, the unfused spinal segments compensate for the straightening effects, but eventually the discs degenerate and wear down. The patient then develops back pain, has difficulty standing upright, and experiences limitations when walking. Eventually, the problem requires surgery to realign the spine.\nAs exemplified by Pecina and Dapic in the European Spine Journal (February 2007), flatback syndrome is not inevitable and does not happen to every person with a low Harrington rod instrumented fusionthere are many people who have had Harrington rods for decades with no adverse effects.\n\n"}
{"id": "2072869", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2072869", "title": "One World Project", "text": "One World Project\n\nOne World Project was a musical supergroup which recorded a song for the 2004 Asian tsunami relief effort. It featured Russell Watson, Boy George, Steve Winwood, Barry Gibb, Brian Wilson, Cliff Richard, Dewey Bunnell, Gerry Beckley and Robin Gibb on vocals (in order of vocal appearance) with Jeffrey Foskett and Randell Kirsch singing harmony vocals. The others musicians and celebrities on the recording were Rick Wakeman, Kenney Jones, Gary Moore (guitar solo), Bill Wyman, Hank Linderman, Jon Anderson, Celina Cherry and Mike Read. It was accompanied by the National Children's Orchestra who were delighted to be asked to be involved in the project at only a week's notice.\n\nThe song, titled \"Grief Never Grows Old\", was recorded in January 2005 and released in February 2005, reaching #4 on the UK Singles Chart.\n"}
{"id": "2072878", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2072878", "title": "Anthony Wong", "text": "Anthony Wong\n\nAnthony Wong may refer to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2072893", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2072893", "title": "Buglife", "text": "Buglife\n\nBuglife – The Invertebrate Conservation Trust (usually referred to simply as Buglife) is a British-based nature conservation charity.\n\nIt is headquartered in Peterborough, England, off the A605 in Nene Park, Peterborough, close to Ferry Meadows railway station and \"The Granary\" Beefeater Grill. It has additional offices in Scotland and the South West of England. Its aim is to prevent invertebrate extinctions and to maintain sustainable populations of invertebrates in the United Kingdom.\n\nActivities undertaken by Buglife fall into the following areas:\n\nIn September 2011, Buglife contributed to BBC Radio 4’s \"Saving Species\" programme.\n\nIn 2015, Buglife campaigned successfully to stop a building development which had threatened the critically endangered species Nothophantes horridus (also known as the Horrid ground-weaver).\n\n"}
{"id": "2072900", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2072900", "title": "California v. Greenwood", "text": "California v. Greenwood\n\nCalifornia v. Greenwood, 486 U.S. 35 (1988), was a case in which the Supreme Court of the United States held that the Fourth Amendment does not prohibit the warrantless search and seizure of garbage left for collection outside the curtilage of a home.\n\nIn early 1984, Investigator Jenny Stracner of the Laguna Beach Police Department learned from various sources that Billy Greenwood might be selling illegal drugs out of his single-family home. In April, Stracner asked the neighborhood's regular trash collector to pick up the plastic garbage bags that Greenwood left on the curb in front of his house. In the garbage, she found evidence of drug use. She used that information to obtain a warrant to search Greenwood's home. When officers searched the house, they found cocaine and marijuana. Greenwood and Dyanne Van Houten were arrested and released on bail.\n\nIn May, another investigator again had the garbage collectors pick up the garbage bag left on the curb. The garbage again contained evidence of drugs, the police obtained another search warrant, and they found more drugs and evidence of drug trafficking in the house.\n\nThe California Superior Court dismissed the charges against Greenwood and Van Houten on the ground that unwarranted trash searches violated the U.S. Constitution's Fourth Amendment, as well as the California Constitution. The Court of Appeal affirmed. The Supreme Court of California refused to hear the appeal. The U.S. Supreme Court granted certiorari and reversed the judgment of the California Court of Appeal.\n\nBy a 6–2 vote (Justice Kennedy took no part in the case), the Court held that under the Fourth Amendment, no warrant was necessary to search the trash because Greenwood had no reasonable expectation of privacy in it. Although Greenwood had hidden the trash from view by putting it in opaque plastic bags and expected it to be on the street only a short time before it would be taken to the dump, the Court believed it to be “common knowledge” that garbage at the side of the street is “readily accessible to animals, children, scavengers, snoops, and other members of the public.” Moreover, Greenwood had left the trash there expressly so that the trash collector, a stranger, could take it. Quoting \"Katz v. United States\", the court concluded that \"[w]hat a person knowingly exposes to the public, even in his own home or office, is not a subject of Fourth Amendment protection.\"\n\nGreenwood argued that the evidence should be excluded under the California Constitution, which the California Supreme Court had interpreted to prohibit warrantless searches of garbage left at the curb (\"People v. Krivda\", 1971). However, the Constitution had been amended in 1982 by the passage of Proposition 8, also known as the \"Victims' Bill of Rights.\" One of its provisions, the Truth-in-Evidence Act, eliminated the exclusionary rule for unconstitutionally obtained evidence. The Court rejected Greenwood's claim that the amendment violated the Due Process Clause. It held that so long as the police conduct did not violate federal law, \"California could permissibly conclude that the benefits of excluding relevant evidence of criminal activity do not outweigh the costs.\"\n\nJustice Brennan reasoned that the possibility the police or other “unwelcome meddlers” might rummage through the trash bags “does not negate the expectation of privacy in their contents any more than the possibility of a burglary negates an expectation of privacy in the home.” Under \"United States v. Chadwick\", the bags could not have been searched without a warrant had Greenwood been carrying them in public. Merely leaving them on the curb for the garbage man to collect, Brennan argued, should not be found to remove that expectation of privacy, for “scrutiny of another's trash is contrary to commonly accepted notions of civilized behavior.”\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2072907", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2072907", "title": "Expressnet", "text": "Expressnet\n\nExpressnet is an interbank network connecting the ATM networks of seven major banks in the Philippines. It has the second-largest number of ATMs (largely due to the vast nationwide presence of Bank of the Philippine Islands Express Teller ATMs) and the smallest number of customers and member banks. However, its strength among the interbank networks and the ubiquity of BPI ATMs have given birth to the Expressnet motto: \"The Powerful Connection\".\n\nAt present, Expressnet has 3.5 million customers and has 2,213 ATMs operating 24 hours a day.\n\nIt has been reported that lock, stock and barrel of Expressnet has been purchased by rival interbank network BancNet. The Expressnet brand is slowly being retired as a result, and recent BPI promotional collateral no longer shows Expressnet info and membership, particularly in their new releases of BPI Express Teller cards (where BPI no longer lists itself as a member of Expressnet). Full integration of its current infrastructure to the BancNet system is expected to be completed by mid-2016.\n\nExpressnet was founded on February 14, 1986, when the ATMs of Bank of the Philippine Islands (BPI) and its subsidiary, BPI Family Savings Bank, were connected for the first time. The first Expressnet transaction was also conducted that same year.\n\nSoon thereafter, in December 1991, Landbank joined the consortium, followed by HSBC Philippines in February 1992. Banco de Oro joined in April 1995, BPI Direct Savings Bank (a BPI subsidiary), joined in 2000 and HSBC Savings Bank, an HSBC subsidiary, became the latest Expressnet member on April 1, 2001. \n\nExpressnet and another Philippine interbank network, MegaLink, formed an alliance on May 6, 1997, with the main ceremony held at Ayala Center. This meant that 2.3 million Expressnet cardholders could use their cards with MegaLink ATMs, and 2.7 million MegaLink cardholders could use their cards with Expressnet ATMs.\n\nOn July 13, 2005, Expressnet and BancNet signed a memorandum by executives of both networks. At present, all Expressnet ATMs advertise full connectivity with BancNet ATM cards and that BancNet shall maintains Expressnet's facilities.\n\nExpressnet is also known for its Express Payment System (EPS), which was at first the debit card system of the BPI Express Teller ATM card. In 2005, the network expanded to include cardholders of all Landbank E.A.S.Y. (Express Access for Savers like You) and Banco de Oro (both local and international) ATM cards.\n\nExpressnet is the primary network of the following banks listed below:\n\n\nAll Expressnet ATM cardholders and a majority of Expressnet ATMs are connected to both MegaLink and BancNet, the other Philippine interbank networks. All Expressnet cardholders can access MegaLink and BancNet-connected ATMs and vice versa.\n\nHowever, not all Expressnet ATMs are linked to MegaLink and BancNet. Prominent examples of this include Landbank and HSBC, but the BPI group and Banco de Oro are accessible to MegaLink cardholders.\n\nAn agreement was signed though between BancNet and Expressnet to interconnect. The first bank to make such an announcement about the BancNet-Expressnet tie-up was Chinabank, of which its sister bank, Banco de Oro, is a member of Expressnet.\n\nInternationally, Expressnet cardholders (excluding Landbank and local BPI and Banco de Oro cardholders) are connected to Maestro and Cirrus in the cases of BPI and Banco de Oro and PLUS. Expressnet ATMs link to the same with BDO ATMs also providing access to American Express, Japan Credit Bureau (JCB), MasterCard, VISA & Visa Electron cardholders.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2072909", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2072909", "title": "Kenneth Tomlinson", "text": "Kenneth Tomlinson\n\nKenneth Y. Tomlinson (August 3, 1944 – May 1, 2014) was an editor at \"Reader's Digest\" and American government official. He was also chairman of the Broadcasting Board of Governors, which manages Voice of America radio, and Chairman of the Board of the Corporation for Public Broadcasting, which manages funds appropriated by Congress in support of public television and radio. According to \"The New York Times\", there was an inquiry concerning possible misuse of federal money by Tomlinson. Investigators at the Corporation for Public Broadcasting said on 15 November 2005 \"that they had uncovered evidence that its former chairman had repeatedly broken federal law and the organization's own regulations in a campaign to combat what he saw as liberal bias\". According to \"The New York Times\", U.S. State Department investigators determined in 2006 that he had \"used his office to run a 'horse racing operation',\" that he \"improperly put a friend on the payroll\", that he \"repeatedly used government employees to perform personal errands\", and that he \"billed the government for more days of work than the rules permit\".\n\nTomlinson was a board member of the Corporation for Public Broadcasting, and served as chairman from September 2003 to September 2005. During his time as chairman, he pursued aggressive policies of adding conservative viewpoints to programming supported by CPB funds. An internal investigation into his acts as chairman led to his resignation in November 2005.\n\nA native of Grayson County, Virginia, Tomlinson began his career in journalism working as a reporter for the \"Richmond Times-Dispatch\" in 1965. In 1968 he joined the Washington bureau of \"Reader's Digest\". He was a correspondent in Vietnam, and co-authored the book \"P.O.W.\", a history of American prisoners of war during the Vietnam War. In 1977 and 1978, he worked out of the \"Digest's\" Paris bureau covering events in Europe, Africa, and the Middle East.\n\nIn 1975, Tomlinson married Rebecca Moore, a former congressional aide to Bill Stuckey and Sonny Montgomery. They were married for 39 years until Tomlinson's death in 2014; Mrs. Tomlinson died in 2015. They have two sons: William M. Tomlinson, 2000 graduate of Vanderbilt University and sports producer for ESPN; and Lucas Y. Tomlinson, a 2001 graduate of the United States Naval Academy and currently working as the Pentagon and State Department Producer for FOX News in Washington, D.C.\n\nIn September 1982, President Reagan nominated Tomlinson to be his fourth Director of the Voice of America (VOA), where he served through August 1984. Some of the Reagan Administration's innovations for the Voice, such as the advent of editorials extolling Administration policy, stirred opposition and fears that the broadcasts could be seen as propaganda.\n\n\"Someone complained that your editorials sound just like Ronald Reagan,\" Mr. Tomlinson said, \"and I said you're darn right and I'm proud of it. The editorials should reflect the viewpoint of the party in power.\"\n\nIn October 1986, President Reagan nominated Tomlinson to be the fourth chairman of the National Commission on Libraries and Information Science (NCLIS), where he served until May 1987.\n\nIn May 1987, President Reagan nominated Tomlinson to be a member of the Board for International Broadcasting (BIB) where he served until 1994 when the BIB was dissolved by the International Broadcasting Act of 1994 and replaced by the Broadcasting Board of Governors (BBG). Tomlinson became a close friend of Karl Rove while they served together on the BIB after President Bush nominated Rove to be a member of the BIB in 1989.\n\nFollowing his work at VOA, Tomlinson returned to \"Reader's Digest\" as managing editor in 1984. He was named executive editor in 1985 and became editor-in-chief in 1989. Tomlinson was the Virginia Press Association's \"Virginian of the Year\" in 1994 and is a member of the Virginia Communications Hall of Fame. Tomlinson retired as editor-in-chief of \"Reader's Digest\" in 1996. After moving to Virginia soon after, Tomlinson was named president and director of the National Sporting Library in Middleburg, Virginia, in 1999.\n\nTomlinson died of melanoma on May 1, 2014 at a Virginia hospital.\n\nTomlinson was appointed as chairman of the CPB board by President George W. Bush, for a two-year term, in September 2003. He embarked upon a mission to purge CPB of what he perceived as \"liberal bias\". His efforts sparked complaints of political pressure. \"Broadcasting & Cable\" magazine wrote when Tomlinson \"uses terms like 'fair and balanced' in talking about what PBS should be, it is understandably seen as code guaranteed to evoke charges of the 'Foxification' of PBS and raise alarm bells with liberals and moderates, as well as with viewers who just don't care about a political agenda at all\".\n\nTomlinson commissioned a $10,000 study into Bill Moyers' PBS program, \"Now with Bill Moyers\" without informing the board of the investigation. He also retained two Republican lobbyists to try to defeat a Congressional proposal that would have increased the representation of broadcasters on the board, again without informing the board of the contracts.\n\nThe inspector general's report issued 15 November 2005, said that Tomlinson appeared to have violated both the federal law and the corporation's own rules in raising $5 million to underwrite \"The Journal Editorial Report\", a PBS program by the editorial board of the \"Wall Street Journal\".\n\nTomlinson, in a statement distributed with the report, rejected its conclusions. He said that any suggestion that he violated his duties or the law \"is malicious and irresponsible\" and that the inspector general had opted \"for politics over good judgment\". \"Unfortunately, the Inspector General's preconceived and unjustified findings will only help to maintain the status quo and other reformers will be discouraged from seeking change\", said Tomlinson, who has repeatedly defended his decisions as part of an effort to restore balance to programming. \"Regrettably, as a result, balance and objectivity will not come soon to elements of public broadcasting\".\n\nIn April 2005, the contract of the former CPB president, Kathleen Cox, was not renewed. She was replaced by acting president Ken Feree, a Republican and former adviser to then-FCC chairman Michael Powell. Tomlinson resigned from the CPB board on November 4, 2005, after the board saw the report about his tenure by the Inspector General of the CPB, requested by House Democrats. The report described possible political influence on personnel decisions, including e-mail correspondence between Tomlinson and the White House which indicated that Tomlinson \"was strongly motivated by political considerations in filling the president/CEO position\", a position eventually filled by former Republican National Committee co-chair Patricia Harrison. Tomlinson was replaced by Cheryl Halpern. Harrison remains CPB president and CEO .\n\nIn July 2005, the State Department opened an inquiry into Tomlinson's work at the Broadcasting Board of Governors, after Representative Howard L. Berman, Representative Tom Lantos and Senator Christopher Dodd forwarded accusations of misuse of money from an employee at the board.\n\n\"The New York Times\" reported that the inquiry was pursuing accusations that Tomlinson had spent federal money for personal purposes and hired unqualified and ghost employees. It also reported that State Department investigators had seized records and e-mail from the board, including correspondence between Tomlinson and Karl Rove, one of President George W. Bush's senior advisors. Rove, an old friend of Tomlinson's, helped to secure Tomlinson's position as chairman.\n\nA summary of the year-long report, prepared by the inspector general of the State Department was released by Berman on August 29, 2006. It concludes that Tomlinson used his office at the Broadcasting Board of Governors to oversee a stable of thoroughbreds. Berman has asked that Tomlinson be removed from his position immediately in the light of the reports findings.\n\nIn the statement issued through his lawyer, Tomlinson said that he was \"proud of what I have accomplished for U.S. international broadcasting\" and that the investigation \"was inspired by partisan divisions inside the Broadcasting Board of Governors\". He implied that it was more efficient for him to work for the Corporation for Public Broadcasting at his office at the broadcasting board. About his horse racing work, he said the inspector general had concluded that it amounted to \"an average of one e-mail and two and a half minutes a day\" at the office.\n\nHe also said he spent more time on broadcasting responsibilities at his farm and residences than he spent on his horses at the office. In early September 2006, the BBG appointees voted on two resolutions related to the inspector general's report: whether to call for Tomlinson's resignation, and whether to sharply curtail his authority. Both resolutions failed in votes that split along the Governors' party lines.\n\n"}
{"id": "2072910", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2072910", "title": "Yabba", "text": "Yabba\n\nStephen Harold Gascoigne, better known as Yabba, (19 March 1878 - 8 January 1942) was an Australian sports fan, remembered as a heckler at Sydney Cricket Ground (SCG) cricket and rugby league games in the early part of the 20th century. \"Yabba\" was known for his knowledgeable witticisms shouted loudly from \"The Hill\", a grassy general admissions area of the SCG.\n\nIn Yabba's era, cricket matches were watched like tennis matches, and spectators at the SCG were much quieter than today. This is the reason Yabba's comments were so clearly heard by players and other spectators.\n\n\"The Hill\" area was replaced with seating in the early 1990s. The new area was then formally named \"Yabba's Hill\" in honour of his colourful comments, several of which have passed into cricketing folklore. In 2007 the Doug Walters Stand and \"Yabba's Hill\" were demolished to make way for the new Victor Trumper Stand. On 7 December 2008 a bronze statue of Yabba, sculpted by Cathy Weiszmann, was unveiled at the Sydney Cricket Ground in \"The Hill\" area of the new stand. It depicts Yabba in a characteristic pose, one hand acting as a megaphone, in the act of delivering one of his famous interjections.\n\nYabba was portrayed by Paul Chubb in the 1984 mini-series \"Bodyline\".\n\nSome of Yabba's best remembered insults include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2072914", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2072914", "title": "Harry Hershfield", "text": "Harry Hershfield\n\nHarry Hershfield (October 13, 1885 – December 15, 1974) was an American cartoonist, humor writer and radio personality. He was known as \"the Jewish Will Rogers\". Hershfield also was a columnist for the \"New York Daily Mirror\". His books include \"Laugh Louder, Live Longer\" and \"Now I'll Tell One\". As a comics artist he is best remembered for his newspaper comic \"Abie the Agent\".\n\nHe was born in Cedar Rapids, Iowa on October 13, 1885 to Jewish immigrants. \n\nHe studied in Chicago at the Frank Holmes School of Illustration and the Chicago Art Institute. His career began at age 14, drawing sports cartoons and his comic strip about a dog, \"Homeless Hector\", for the \"Chicago Daily News\" in 1899. He then went West, drawing for the \"San Francisco Chronicle\" by 1907. He married Sarah Jane Isdell (?-1960).\n\nIn 1909, he was hired by Arthur Brisbane to work for William Randolph Hearst's \"New York Evening Journal\". He switched to the \"New York Graphic\" where he drew \"If I'm Wrong, Sue Me!\", and when the \"Graphic\" folded, he went to the \"New York Herald Tribune\" and drew \"Meyer the Buyer\".\n\nDuring the 1930s, Hershfield was in demand as a banquet toastmaster, averaging some 200 banquets and dinners annually. \nDuring his lifetime, he was toastmaster or master of ceremonies at an estimated 16,000 events, including charity affairs, dinners and stage benefits.\n\nInvolved in a legal battle with Hearst from 1933 to 1935, Hershfield drew a Sunday half-page, \"According to Hoyle\", for the \"New York Herald-Tribune\" during those years.\n\nOn March 11, 1938, he was signed to manage the story department of MGM's cartoon studio. He later commented, \"They were so glad to welcome me, the day I arrived they gave me a farewell dinner.\"\n\nHe began radio work with a program named \"One Man's Opinion\", and soon after he brought \"Abie the Agent\" to an end during 1940, he became a well-known radio personality, telling jokes on the programs \"Stop Me If You've Heard This One\" and \"Can You Top This?\" He was a frequent guest of early television programs during the 1950s.\n\nHe died on December 15, 1974 at Saint Clare's Hospital in Manhattan.\n\nNames and dates from Holtz's \"American Newspaper Comics: An Enyclopedic Reference Guide\":\n\n\nSunday toppers for \"Abie the Agent\":\n\nRon Goulart, in \"Encyclopedia of American Comics\", described Hershfield's cartoon humor:\n\nThe character was animated for the movie \"Abie Kabibble Outwitted a Rival\" (1917).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2072920", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2072920", "title": "Hughligans", "text": "Hughligans\n\nThe Hughligans were a faction of the British Conservative Party in the early 20th century. \n\nThe name is a pun on the word hooligan and \"Hugh\", as in Lord Hugh Cecil (later Lord Quickswood), one of the faction's leaders. The Hughligans were a group of backbench Conservative MPs who were dissatisfied with the leadership of Arthur Balfour. Cecil was a younger son of Balfour's predecessor as Conservative Leader, the Marquess of Salisbury. Besides Cecil, other members were F.E. Smith, Earl Percy, Arthur Stanley, Ian Malcolm and Lord George Hamilton. Winston Churchill was also associated with the group before his departure from the Conservative Party in 1904.\n\nIn Randolph Churchill's biography of his father Winston, he commented: \"\"Later they were on occasion to be outrageous in their Parliamentary manners and the critics dubbed them the Hughligans, or Hooligans.\"\" \n\nAfter the fall of the Conservative government in 1905, the surviving Hughligans became bitter opponents of Balfour, whom they considered insufficiently militant in opposition to the Liberal government of H. H. Asquith. The Hughligans are best known for an incident in July 1911, during the conflict over reform of the House of Lords, when Cecil and Smith led an organised disruption of the House of Commons, preventing Asquith from speaking for half an hour while he stood in silence at the dispatch box. The incident deeply embarrassed Balfour, and hastened his retirement as party leader, which was Cecil's intention.\n"}
{"id": "2072923", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2072923", "title": "List of Tyne and Wear Metro stations", "text": "List of Tyne and Wear Metro stations\n\nThe following is a list of Tyne and Wear Metro stations.\n\nThe following stations were built specifically for the Tyne and Wear Metro system.\n\nThese stations were built prior to the Metro system, but have since been converted or re-built for Metro use. All except Sunderland now serve Metro trains only.\n\nThis list does not include Fawdon, Bank Foot, and Regent Centre, which are located on the sites of the former Coxlodge, Kenton, and West Gosforth stations on what was once the Ponteland Railway, but which closed to passenger traffic in 1929; Pelaw, which was added to the Metro in 1985, and which is sited to the south of the former station of that name; Northumberland Park, opened 2005, built on the approximate site of the previous Backworth station, closed in 1979; and Palmersville, added in 1985, close to the short-lived Benton Square station (which was open 1909-1915). In addition, Jesmond, Manors, and Central Station are all purpose-built underground stations that were built near to, and share names with, previous suburban stations, and South Shields is built upon a bridge closer to the town centre than the previous mainline station of that name.\n\nThere have been numerous suggestions for infill stations on the Metro since it opened, and five of these, Pelaw, Kingston Park, Palmersville, Northumberland Park and Simonside have been built and attract high patronage. Other plans that have been abandoned or are yet to be built include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2072939", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2072939", "title": "Complicity (novel)", "text": "Complicity (novel)\n\nComplicity is a novel by Scottish author Iain Banks. It was published in 1993.\n\nIts two main characters are Cameron Colley, a journalist on a Scottish newspaper called \"The Caledonian\" (which resembles \"The Scotsman\"), and a serial murderer whose identity is a mystery. The passages dealing with the journalist are written in the first person, and those dealing with the murderer in the second person, so the novel presents, in alternate chapters, an unusual example of an unreliable narrator. The events take place mostly in and around Edinburgh.\n\nColley is a \"Gonzo journalist\" with an amphetamine habit, living in Edinburgh. He also smokes cigarettes and cannabis, drinks copious amounts of alcohol, plays computer games, and has adventurous sex with a married woman, Yvonne. He regrets his addictions and misdemeanours and occasionally tries (admittedly half-heartedly) to give them up.\n\nHe reflects on his awful experience of witnessing the aftermath of the massacre at the 'Highway of Death' in the Gulf War, and covers the deployment of HMS \"Vanguard\", Britain's first Trident nuclear missile submarine.\n\nHe thinks he has a scoop when he receives anonymous phone calls about a series of mysterious deaths. Suddenly he has mysterious deaths of his own to worry about, when an editorial he wrote years before comes back to haunt him. In it, he suggested that certain named capitalist and right-wing public figures would be better hate-figures than the conventional ones of foreign leaders or domestic criminals. It seems someone is killing off the people on his list, one by one. The description of the murders (which are ingeniously sadistic) is done in a fairly detailed manner.\n\nUnder suspicion by the police, Colley finds himself involved doubly in the bizarre murders when the killer is revealed. At the end of the book, Colley is diagnosed with lung cancer (a downbeat ending omitted in the film adaptation).\n\nBanks claimed in an interview that \"Complicity\" is \"[a] bit like \"The Wasp Factory\" except without the happy ending and redeeming air of cheerfulness\".\n\nThe themes of violence and substance abuse in the book, along with the grim ending, seem to point to Banks' growing pacifism. Significant sections of the novel are written in second-person narrative.\n\nThere are scenes in the book telling of the main character's time at university. While the university isn't named the description of the locale points very strongly at this being Stirling University, where Iain Banks was himself a student.\n\nA motion picture called \"Complicity\" (or \"Retribution\" in some markets) based on the novel was filmed in 2000.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2072949", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2072949", "title": "Bitlis", "text": "Bitlis\n\nBitlis ( \"\"; ; ; \"Balales\") is a city in eastern Turkey and the capital of Bitlis Province. The city is located at an elevation of 1,545 metres, 15 km from Lake Van, in the steep-sided valley of the Bitlis River, a tributary of the Tigris. The local economy is mainly based on agricultural products which include fruits, grain and tobacco. Industry is fairly limited, and deals mainly with leatherworking, manufacture of tobacco products as well as weaving and dyeing of coarse cloth. Bitlis is connected to other urban centres by road, including Tatvan on Lake Van, 25 km to the northeast, and the cities of Muş (Mush), 100 km northwest, and Diyarbakır, 200 km to the west. The climate of Bitlis can be harsh, with long winters and heavy snowfalls. Summers are hot, and often humid. Since the local elections of March 2019, the Mayor of Bitlis is Nesrullah Tanğlay.\n\nThe origin of the name Bitlis is not known. A popular folk etymology explanation, without historical basis, is that it is derived from \"Lis/Batlis\", the name of a general said to have built Bitlis castle by the order of Alexander the Great. To Armenians, it was known as Balalesa or Baghaghesh, and later Baghesh. According to one popular Armenian folk story, on a cold, wintry day a donkey left its stable and wandered down the valley below. The donkey died of the freezing temperatures and was only discovered in the spring, once the ice had melted; thus, it received the name \"Pagh Esh\", or \"Cold Donkey.\"\n\nBaghesh was one of the most important cities of the Kingdom of Armenia's province of Aghdznik', and it served as the primary fortress of the province's canton of Salnodzor. Some medieval Armenian writers, such as Anania Shirakatsi and Vardan Areveltsi, later mention it as a part of the canton of Bznunik'. The fortress guarded the Baghesh Pass, which linked the southern reaches of the Armenian Plateau to northern Mesopotamia. The Arabs conquered Baghesh at the end of the seventh century and it eventually became the capital of the Zurārid emirs of Arzan. Because it was on an important trade route, it prospered greatly.\n\nThe next two centuries, however, marked a turbulent period in the town's history. After Bugha al-Kabir's destructive 852-855 campaign in Armenia, the Shaybanid emirs wrested control of Baghesh from the Zurārids; thereafter, in the first quarter of the tenth century, it was taken by the Kaysite emirs of Manzikert. In his 929-30 campaign against the Kaysites, the Byzantine general John Curcuas was able to capture and annex Baghesh. Following the devastation of the Arab emirs in the second half of the tenth century, a great number of Kurds settled in Baghesh and at the end of the tenth century, the city fell into the hands of the Kurdish Marwanid dynasty after breaking from Buyid rule. At the end of the eleventh century, with the collapse of Byzantine power after the Battle of Manzikert, Bitlis fell under the control of Togan Arslan, a subject of the Shah Arman (Also called Ahlatshah) dynasty based in Akhlat' after brief Dilmachoglu rule. It was also ruled by Ayyubid (1207–1231), Khwarezm Shahs (shortly rule in 1230), Sultanate of Rûm (1231–1243) and Ilkhanate (1243–1335).\n\nBitlis was a Kurdish emirate from the 13th to the 19th century. Though often subordinate to a succession of larger powers that ruled the Van region, it always maintained a measure of independence. In the 14th century its emirs, the Kurdish Rusaki family, were vassals of the Karakoyunlu and the emirate's territory also consisted of several smaller emirates: Ahlat, Mush, and Hinis. The emir of Bitlis submitted to Timur in 1394, but later helped the re-establishment of Karakoyunlu control in the region. After the collapse of the Karakoyunlu state, the Bitlis emirate disintegrated. However, in the 1470s it took the Aq Qoyunlu (White Sheep Turkomans) three successive sieges to capture Bitlis and in 1494/95 the Ruzaki recaptured the town. Armenians formed a large part of the city's population. A number of monasteries were permitted to be built by the Kurdish emirs and during the fifteenth century, Biltis flourished as a center for Armenian manuscript production.\n\nBitlis was forced to accept a Persian governor during the invasion of the Safavid Shah Ismail, but sided with the Ottoman forces as they approached the region. Its emir, Sheref, later changed his allegiance to the Persians. An Ottoman army besieged Bitlis for three months in 1531/32, but was forced to retire. Sheref was killed in battle in 1533 and his son and successor submitted to the Ottoman Empire. Mush and Hınıs were removed from the Bitlis emirate, becoming separate sanjaks but still with Ruzaki beys. A Jesuit mission was established in Bitlis in 1685. The Ruzakid Kurdish dynasty in Bitlis lasted until 1849, when an Ottoman governor evicted its last emir, Sheref Bey, who was taken to Constantinople as a prisoner. After this, Bitlis was governed by a Turkish pasha and formed the capital of a \"vilayet\" bearing its name.\n\nIn 1814 the population of Bitlis town was said to be 12,000 people - one half Muslim, the other half was constituted by Christian Armenians. By 1838 its population was said to be between 15,000 and 18,000 - two thirds Muslim, one third Armenian, and a small minority of Assyrians. In 1898 Lynch considered the population to be close to 30,000, comprising 10,000 Armenians, 300 [As]syrians, and the rest Muslim Kurds (both Alevis and Sunnis included). The Armenians had five schools for boys and three for girls. One third of the population of Bitlis was ethnic Armenian prior to World War I (1914, whereas the majority of the population was Kurdish Muslim (Alevi as well as Sunni Muslims). In 1915, during the Armenian Genocide, Turks and Kurds, led by Jevdet Bey Pasha, massacred some 15,000 Armenians in Bitlis.\n\nIn February 1916, as part of the Caucasus Campaign, Imperial Russian forces launched an offensive to capture Mush and Bitlis. Mush fell on February 16. At Bitlis, the Turkish positions were in a strong location on the outskirts of the town and could not be outflanked because of the narrowness of the valley. On the night of March 2–3, during a blizzard, the Russian 8th Caucasian Rifles advanced silently and, after several hours of hand-to-hand fighting, took the Turkish positions with 1,000 prisoners. The Turks then abandoned Bitlis, retreating towards Siirt. The Russian forces and intelligence officers found evidence of the massacres of Christians by the Kurdish and Turkish radicals in 1915.\n\nIn August 1916 the Turkish Second Army started an offensive against the Russian front in eastern Turkey. On August 2, the Ottoman 16th Corps, together with strong Kurdish irregulars' support, attacked Bitlis and Mush. Fearing encirclement General Nazarbekov, the Russian commander, abandoned Bitlis on August 5. When Mush also fell, he decided to abandon Tatvan and the whole Mush valley and retreat to Ahlat. Around 18 August, the Russians having been reinforced, were able to counter-attack. By September the Turkish offensive was stalled and then turned. Nazarbekov advanced as the Turkish forces withdrew from Tatvan and Mush, but he did not have the available forces to hold Bitlis as winter approached. The Russian February Revolution in the spring of 1917 prevented any further Russian gains.\n\nBitlis preserves more medieval and traditional architecture than any other town in eastern Turkey. They are of a high quality and are mostly constructed from locally quarried light-brown stone, sometimes called Ahlat stone.\n\nThe town contains a large number of late-medieval Islamic buildings in the form of mosques, madrassas, and tombs. Also commercial buildings such as \"Han's Caravanserais. Commissioned mostly by its local Kurdish rulers, the architectural style of these buildings is very conservative and similar to much earlier Seljuq-period structures. Important monuments include the 12th-century Ulu Mosque with its 15th-century minaret, and the Gokmeydani Medresesi and Sherefiye Mosque from the sixteenth century. Until 1915 there were five Armenian monasteries and several churches in Bitlis – only a 19th-century Armenian church survives, now used as a warehouse.\n\nBitlis is also notable for its many old houses. These are built of cut stone and are often large and impressive structures. Most have two stories, but three stories are also found. Ground floors were generally intended for storage and stables, with the residential quarters on the upper floors. Ground floor rooms have few windows, upper floors are well lit. Roofs are flat and covered with beaten clay. Unlike traditional houses in nearby Erzurum or Van, Bitlis houses do not have bay windows and balconies.\n\nBitlis has a dry-summer continental climate according to the (Köppen climate classification \"Dsa\"). Bitlis has very warm, dry summers and freezing, snowy winters.\n\nHistorically, Bitlis produced wheat, which the British, in 1920, described as being \"particularly excellent.\" However, poor trade routes in the area during the early 20th century meant that the wheat was mainly produced and used by locals. During this time, the British stated that the people of Bitlis were unable to use all of the wheat they produced, and most was \"left to rot in the underground storehouses.\"\n\n\nThe city was the home of the sixteenth century Kurdish historian, Sherefxan Bedlisi (also: \"Sharaf al-Din Bitlisi\"), author of the Sharafnameh, and who was also an appointed prince of the Persian and later Ottoman Empires.\n\nOttoman administrator and Kurdish religious scholar and author Idris-i Bitlisi is claimed to have been born in Bitlis also. He was instrumental in conquest, Ottomanization and administration of Ottoman lands from Urfa, Mardin to Egypt.\n\nSaid Nursi (Nurs, Bitlis, 1877) notable Kurdish Sunni Muslim Theologian. Writer of the Risale-i-Nur collection used as the foundation of movements such as the Nurcu in Turkey and the Gulenist movement founded by Fetullah Gulen.\n\nFuat Sezgin (Bitlis, 1924), a prominent Historian of Science, Orientalist was born in Bitlis. He is the author and editor of numerous publications. His 13-volume work Geschichte des Arabischen Schrifttums (1967-2000) is the cornerstone reference on the history of science and technology in the Islamic world. The 5-volume Natural Sciences of Islam documents the items in the Frankfurt museum. Since 1984 he has edited the Journal for the History of Arabic-Islamic Science.\n\nAmerican writer William Saroyan's parents were immigrants from Bitlis to Fresno, California. He wrote a play entitled \"Bitlis\" about his \"return\" to the city he considered his homeland, which he actually did visit in later years.\n\nKâmran İnan (Hizan, Bitlis, 1929), a well known Turkish politician, diplomat, and scholar was from Bitlis. He has written about the history of Bitlis.\n\nBitlis is twinned with:\n\n"}
{"id": "2072959", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2072959", "title": "Motor Boys", "text": "Motor Boys\n\nThe Motor Boys were the heroes of a popular series of adventure books for boys at the turn of the 20th century issued by the Stratemeyer Syndicate under the pseudonym of Clarence Young. This series was published by Cupples & Leon and was issued with dustjackets and glossy frontispiece. Howard Garis (author of the Uncle Wiggily stories) wrote many, if not all, of these stories.\n\n\n\n\nThe name of the Motor Boys' boat, \"Dartaway\", is also the name of the plane mentioned in \"The Rover Boys in the Air\" (1912).\n\n"}
{"id": "2072968", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2072968", "title": "Prudence Crandall", "text": "Prudence Crandall\n\nPrudence Crandall (September 3, 1803 – January 27, 1890) was an American schoolteacher and activist.\n\nCrandall is remembered, and is the state heroine of Connecticut, for setting up the first school for black girls (\"young Ladies and little Misses of color\") in the country. This resulted in her arrest; then violence from townspeople forced her to close the school, and she left Connecticut. \n\nWhen Crandall admitted Sarah Harris, a 20-year-old African-American female student in 1832 to her school, she had what is considered to be the first integrated classroom in the United States. Parents of the white children began to withdraw them. Prudence was a \"very obstinate girl\", according to her brother Reuben. Rather than ask the African-American student to leave, she decided that if white girls would not attend with the blacks, she would educate black girls. She was arrested and spent a night in jail. Soon the violence of the townspeople forced her to close the school and leave. Much later the Connecticut legislature, with pressure from Mark Twain, a resident of Hartford, passed a resolution honoring Crandall and providing her with a pension. Twain offered to buy her former Canterbury home for her retirement, but she declined. She died a few years later, in 1890.\n\nPrudence Crandall was born on September 3, 1803, to Pardon and Esther Carpenter Crandall, a Quaker couple who lived in Carpenter's Mills, Rhode Island. When she was about 10, her father moved the family to nearby Canterbury, Connecticut. As her father thought little of the local public school, he paid for her to attend the Black Hill Quaker School in Plainfield, east of Canterbury. Her teacher there, Rowland Greene, was opposed to slavery, and much later gave an address, published in Garrison's \"Liberator\", on the necessity of education for blacks, and commended Isaac C. Glasgow for sending two of his daughters, \"exemplary young women\", to Crandall's school for young ladies of color.\n\nWhen 22, for one year she attended the New England Yearly Meeting School, a Quaker boarding school in Providence, Rhode Island. That the school existed was due to the generosity of Moses Brown, an abolitionist and co-founder of Brown University; in 1904 the school renamed itself the Moses Brown School. After graduating, Prudence Crandall taught a school in Plainfield. She became a Baptist in 1830.\n\nIn 1831 she purchased the Elisha Payne house, with her sister Almira Crandall, to establish the Canterbury Female Boarding School, at the request of Canterbury's aristocratic residents, to educate young girls in the town. With the help of her sister and a maid, she taught about forty children in different subjects including geography, history, grammar, arithmetic, reading, and writing. As principal of the female boarding school, Prudence Crandall was deemed successful in her ability to educate young girls, and the school flourished until September 1832.\n\nAlthough Prudence Crandall grew up as a North American Quaker, she admitted that she was not acquainted with many people of color or abolitionists. She discovered the problems that plagued people of color through the abolitionist newspaper \"The Liberator\", which she learned of through her housekeeper, \"a young black lady\", whose fiancé was the son of the paper's local agent. After reading \"The Liberator\", Prudence Crandall said in an earlier account that she \"contemplated for a while, the manner in which I might best serve the people of color.\"\n\nPrudence Crandall's chance to help people of color came in the fall of 1832. Sarah Harris, the daughter of a free African-American farmer near Canterbury, asked to be accepted to the school to prepare for teaching other African Americans. Although Crandall was uncertain about whether to admit Harris, whom she liked, she consulted her Bible, which, as she told it, came open to Ecclesiastes 4:1:\nShe then admitted the girl, establishing the first integrated school in the United States. Prominent townspeople objected and placed pressure on Crandall to dismiss Harris from the school, but she refused. Although the white students in the school did not openly oppose the presence of Sarah Harris, families of the current white students removed their daughters from the school.\n\nConsequently, Crandall devoted herself to teaching African-American girls, after traveling to Boston to consult with abolitionists Samuel J. May and William Lloyd Garrison about the project. (Both were supportive, and gave her letters of introduction to prominent African Americans in locations from Providence, Rhode Island to New York. She temporarily closed the school and began directly recruiting new students of color. On March 2, 1833, Garrison published advertisements for new pupils in his newspaper \"The Liberator\". Crandall announced that on the first Monday of April 1833, she would open a school \"for the reception of young Ladies and little Misses of color, ... Terms, $25 per quarter, one half paid in advance.\" Her references including leading abolitionists Arthur Tappan, May, and Garrison.\n\nAs word of the school spread, African-American families began arranging enrollment of their daughters in Crandall's academy. On April 1, 1833, twenty African-American girls from Boston, Providence, New York, Philadelphia, and the surrounding areas in Connecticut arrived at Miss Crandall's School for Young Ladies and Little Misses of Color.\n\nLeading the reaction to Crandall's school for black girls was her neighbor, Andrew Judson, an attorney and Canterbury's leading politician, having represented it in both the Connecticut House and Senate, and would soon be Connecticut's at-large member of the U.S. House of Representatives. In the national debate that was awkwardly taking place over \"what to do\" with the freed or soon-to-be-freed slaves, Judson supported \"colonization\": sending them to (not \"back to\") Africa (see American Colonization Society). He said: \"We are not merely opposed to the establishment of that school in Canterbury; we mean there shall not be such a school set up anywhere in our State. The colored people can never rise from their menial condition in our country; they ought not to be permitted to rise here. They are an inferior race of beings, and never call or ought to be recognized as the equals of the whites.\" \"He predicted the destruction of the town if Crandall's school for colored children succeeded.\" Judson was also involved in efforts to capture David Garrison and turn him over to Southerners; there was a $10,000 reward.\n\nIn response to the new school, a committee of four prominent white men in the town, Rufus Adams, Daniel Frost Jr., Andrew Harris, and Richard Fenner, attempted to convince Crandall that her school for young women of color would be detrimental to the safety of the white people in the town of Canterbury. Frost claimed that the boarding school would encourage \"social equality and intermarriage of whites and blacks.\" To this, her response was \"Moses had a black wife.\"\n\nAt first, citizens of Canterbury protested the school and then held town meetings \"to devise and adopt such measures as would effectually avert the nuisance, or speedily abate it.\" The town response escalated into warnings, threats, and acts of violence against the school. Crandall was faced with great local opposition, and her detractors had no plans to back down.\n\nOn May 24, 1833, the Connecticut legislature passed a \"Black Law\", which prohibited a school from teaching African-American students from outside the state without town permission. In July, Crandall was arrested and placed in the county jail for one night—she refused to be bonded out, as she wished the public to know she was being jailed. (A Vermont newspaper reported it under the headline \"Shame on Connecticut\".) The next day she was released under bond to await her trial.\n\nUnder the Black Law, the townspeople refused any amenities to the students or Crandall, closing their shops and meeting houses to them, although they were welcomed at Prudence's Baptist church, in neighboring Plainfield.. Stage drivers refused to provide them with transportation, and the town doctors refused to treat them. Townspeople poisoned the school's well—its only water source—with animal feces, and prevented Crandall from obtaining water from other sources. Not only did Crandall and her students receive backlash, but her father was also insulted and threatened by the citizens of Canterbury. Although she faced extreme difficulties, Crandall continued to teach the young women of color which angered the community even further.\n\nCrandall's students also suffered. Ann Eliza Hammond, a 17-year-old student, was arrested; however, with the help of local abolitionist Samuel J. May, she was able to post a bail bond. Some $10,000 was raised through collections and donations.\n\nArthur Tappan of New York, a prominent abolitionist, donated $10,000 to hire the best lawyers to defend Crandall throughout her trials. The first opened at the Windham County Court on August 23, 1833. The case challenged the constitutionality of the Connecticut law prohibiting the education of African Americans from outside the state.\n\nThe defense argued that African Americans were citizens in other states, so, therefore, there was no reason why they should not be considered as such in Connecticut. Thus, they focused on the deprivation of the rights of African-American students under the United States Constitution. By contrast, the prosecution denied the fact that freed African-Americans were citizens in any state. The county court jury ultimately failed to reach a decision for the cases.\n\nA second trial in Superior Court decided against the school, and the case was taken to the Supreme Court of Errors (now called the Connecticut Supreme Court) on appeal in July 1834. The Connecticut high court reversed the decision of the lower court, dismissing the case on July 22 because of a procedural defect. The Black Law prohibited the education of black children from outside of Connecticut unless permission was granted by the local civil authority and town selectmen. But the prosecution's information that charged Crandall had not alleged that she had established her school without the permission of the civil authority and selectmen of Canterbury. Therefore, the Supreme Court held that the information was fatally defective because the conduct which it alleged did not constitute a crime. The Court did not address the issue of whether the citizenship of free African Americans had to be recognized in every state.\n\nThe judicial process had not stopped the operation of the Canterbury boarding school, but the townspeople's vandalism against it increased. The residents of Canterbury were so angry that the court had dismissed the case that vandals set the school on fire in January 1834, but they failed in their attempts to destroy the school. In September 9, 1834, a group of townspeople broke almost ninety window glass panes using heavy iron bars. For the safety of her students, her family and herself, Prudence Crandall closed her school on September 10, 1834.\n\nConnecticut officially repealed the Black Law in 1838.\n\nAt the suggestion of William Garrison, who raised the money from \"various antislavery societies\", Francis Alexander painted a portrait of Prudence in April 1834. She had to go to Boston for the sittings, where she \"became the center of attention at abolitionist parties and gatherings each evening. The Boston abolitionists honored her as a true heroine of the antislavery cause.\"\n\nIn August 1834, Prudence Crandall married the Rev. Calvin Philleo, a Baptist preacher in Canterbury, Connecticut. The couple moved to Massachusetts for a period of time after they fled the town of Canterbury, and they also lived in New York, Rhode Island, and Illinois. Prudence left him in 1842 after his \"deteriorating physical and mental health\" led him to be irritable and abusive. Prudence was involved in the women's suffrage movement and ran a school in LaSalle County, Illinois. It was in Illinois that Rev. Calvin Philleo died in 1874.\n\nAfter the death of her husband, Crandall relocated with her brother Hezekiah to Elk Falls, Kansas, around 1877, and it was there that her brother eventually died in 1881. A visitor of 1886, who described her as \"of almost national renown,\" with \"a host of good books in her house\", quoted her as follows:\n\nIn 1886, the state of Connecticut honored Prudence Crandall with an act by the legislature, prominently supported by the writer Mark Twain, providing her with a $400 annual pension (). Prudence Crandall died in Kansas on January 28, 1890, at the age of 86. She and her brother Hezekiah are buried in Elk Falls Cemetery.\n\nPrudence's younger brother Reuben was a physician and a botany expert. He was no abolitionist and was opposed to Prudence's efforts to educate African-American girls, and told this to her chief enemy Judson, when the latter gave him a ride.\n\nReuben, who had studied medicine at Yale and practiced for 7 years in Peekskill, New York, was arrested on August 10, 1835, in Washington, D.C., and charged with sedition and publication of abolitionist literature. He narrowly escaped being lynched. At first denied bail, it was later set so high that he could not meet it, and he was jailed for 8 months before his trial. It was the first trial for sedition in the history of the country, and being in Washington it attracted a large audience, including members of Congress and reporters. Francis Scott Key was the District of Columbia prosecuting attorney. The jury acquitted Reuben of all charges; this was a major public embarrassment for Key and ended his political career. However, Crandall had contracted tuberculosis in the jail, and died shortly afterwards.\n\nPrudence's sister Almira died in 1837. In 1838 her brother Pardon died, followed days later by her sister-in-law Clarissa, who had just given birth.\n\n\n\nTo\nMlSS CRANDALL,\nof Canterbury, Connecticut,\nThis small offering is presented,\nWith affectionate respect,\nby\nFemale Friends in Glasgow;\nIn testimony of their high admiration of that ardent benevolence, heroic fortitude, and unflinching steadfastness, In the midst of wanton and unequalled persecution, Which Almighty God hath enabled her to display, In her disinterested and noble endeavors, Destined to be crowned with honor and triumph, To introduce into the privileges, and elevate in the scale, Of social and religious life, A long injured class of Her beloved Countrywomen. \"Blessed are the merciful, for they shall obtain mercy. Blessed are ye when men shall revile you and persecute you, and shall say all manner of evil against you falsely for my sake. Rejoice and be exceeding glad, for great is your reward in heaven.\"Glasgow, February, 1851.\nIn the late 20th century, Crandall received renewed attention and honors: \n\nThe Episcopal Church (United States) remembers Crandall as a \"teacher, and prophetic witness\". There is a prayer to be recited on September 3, her birthday.\n\nThe following marker is at Osage Street and Highway 190, Elk Falls, Kansas: \nThe Linda Lear Center for Special Collections & Archives, at Connecticut College, in New London, Connecticut, has a Prudence Crandall Collection. It contains \"23 letters and one manuscript of poems by Crandall, including three letters to the abolitionist Simeon Jocelyn detailing the opposition to her school. Most of the remaining letters are to her husband, Calvin Philleo. There are also nearly three dozen manuscripts of correspondence and business records of Philleo. The remainder of the collection consists of photographs of Crandall, her family members, and their places of residence and Helen Sellers' research materials and correspondence related to her biography.\" The Lear Center has also posted a guide to other archival material of or relating to Crandall.\n\nCorrespondence with William Garrison is in his papers in the Boston Public Library.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2072970", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2072970", "title": "Enrique Urquijo", "text": "Enrique Urquijo\n\nEnrique Urquijo (15 February 1960 – 17 November 1999) was a Spanish singer, songwriter, and guitarist.\n\nBorn in Madrid, Spain, Urquijo is best known as one of three brothers in the Spanish new wave music group \"Los Secretos\" formed in 1980. Later in the career of Los Secretos, he formed his parallel band \"Los Problemas\".\n\nUrquijo died in Madrid on 17 November 1999 of a drug overdose. He is buried in the Cementerio de la Almudena in Madrid.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2072973", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2072973", "title": "Parti-coloured bat", "text": "Parti-coloured bat\n\nThe parti-coloured bat or rearmouse (\"Vespertilio murinus\") is a species of vesper bat that lives in temperate Eurasia - Central and Eastern Europe, in some parts of Western and Southern Europe and Asia. Occurs eastwards over the Caucasus and Iran into Mongolia, north-east China, Korea, Afghanistan and northern Pakistan. \n\nTheir twittering call, similar to a bird's call, are to be heard particularly in the autumn during the mating season. The parti-coloured bat has a body size of with a wingspan of , and a weight of . Its name is derived from its fur, which has two colours. Its back (dorsal side) is red to dark-brown, with silver-white-frosted hair. The ventral side is white or grey. The ears, wings and face are black or dark brown. The wings are narrow. The ears are short, broad and roundish. The highest known age is 12 years.\n\nThese bats hunt for their prey, for example mosquitoes, caddis flies and moths, with a wide range of ultrasonic sounds, but especially around 25–27 kHz. They hunt after twilight at heights of around , for example in open landscape over streams and lakes and above forests or at street lights. In cold weather, the bat may remain in its resting place.\n\nThere is not much known about the behaviour of parti-coloured bats, as they are quite rare. Female bats live in small groups, of about 50 animals, sometimes up to several hundred adult females. In Western Europe, male groups consist of about 250 animals and are found only during the spring and early summer. These bats migrate, and flights of up to were found. The furthest migration was determined at .\n\nBetween October and March, the bats hibernate. They hibernate alone, and can bear temperatures down to .\n\nFemales form maternity roosts during May and July and generally give birth to twins. After the pups are weaned, which takes less than six weeks, females leave the maternity roost. Birth of the young is in western Europe around beginning of June.\n\nThe parti-coloured bat occurs in Central and Western Europe and in Asia. Its natural habitat is mountains, steppes and forested areas, but in Western Europe, they can mainly be found in cities. The species is protected, as it is threatened by insecticides and changes in their habitat.\n"}
{"id": "2072977", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2072977", "title": "Yves Chaland", "text": "Yves Chaland\n\nYves Chaland (3 April 1957 – 18 July 1990) was a French cartoonist.\n\nDuring the 1980s, together with Luc Cornillon, Serge Clerc and Floc'h, he launched the \"Atomic style\", a stylish remake of the Marcinelle School in Franco-Belgian comics.\n\nChaland published his first strips in the fanzine \"Biblipop\" when he was 17. During his studies at the Ecole des Beaux-Arts, Saint-Etienne, he created his own fanzine, \"L'Unité de Valeur\", in 1976, with Luc Cornillon.\n\nIn 1978, he met writer/editor Jean-Pierre Dionnet, and they collaborated on features published in the Franco-Belgian comics magazines \"Métal Hurlant\" and \"Ah Nana\". These pastiches of 50s comics have been collected in the album \"Captivant\".\n\nHe then created the characters of \"Bob Fish\", \"Adolphus Claar\", \"Freddy Lombard\", and \"Le Jeune Albert\", a scamp character living in the Marolles, a working-class area of Brussels. Yves Chaland, was approached to draw an adventure of \"Spirou et Fantasio\", appearinging in half-page installments of the weekly \"Spirou\" magazine. Done in a retro 50s style similar to his influences Jijé and André Franquin, both former artists on the \"Spirou\" feature. The unfinished story has been collected in the album \" Spirou et Fantasio – Hors Série, No. 4\" (Dupuis, 2003).\n\nHe also did many advertising illustration commissions in his crisp, clean, \"retro-modern\" cartoon style.\n\nAs with many Franco-Belgian comics, Chaland's works have had limited publication in English. The complete Freddy Lombard series was released in the two volume Chaland Anthology. These were the only two released in English (in both paper and hardback, in 2003), while 4 volumes were released in French, containing his complete comic strip works for Métal Hurlant. (Chaland – L'Intégrale).\n\nA Magazine contribute to the knowledge of Chaland's artwork, \"The Journal of Freddy's friends\" is also available in English.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2072979", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2072979", "title": "Yingde", "text": "Yingde\n\nYingde (postal: Yingtak; ) is a historical city in the north of Guangdong Province, China. The city is on the Bei River, a tributary of the Pearl River. Administratively, it is part of the Qingyuan prefecture-level city.\n\nThe principal varieties of Chinese spoken are Cantonese and Hakka. Mandarin is rarely spoken except in teaching.\n\nIt is famous for its Yingde Stone and Yingdehong tea. In 1963 the British royal family popularized Yingde's black tea worldwide after offering the tea to guests at the Queen's Banquet. Yingde's tea history dates back to over 1,200 years ago. It is considered to be one of the top three places in the world to grow black tea.\n\n"}
{"id": "2072982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2072982", "title": "Hovawart", "text": "Hovawart\n\nThe Hovawart is a medium to large size German dog breed. The name of the breed means \"farm watcher\", from the Middle High German words hova (yard, farm) and wart (watchman).\n\nThe Hovawart is a medium-large dog. Male Hovawarts are and females at the withers. The weight is approximately . The correct color descriptions are black, black and gold, and blond.\nThe Hovawart is an outstanding watch dog and somewhat reserved towards strangers. They make excellent family dogs as they are completely devoted to their family. They are a working dog breed, and require a consistent and loving yet strict training and meaningful activity throughout their lives.\n\nBy 1473, Heinrich Mynsinger described the Hovawart as one of \"The Five Noble Breeds\" and among its uses listed that it was useful for tracking the robber and miscreant. This along with references to the Hovawart in German law show that it was a readily identifiable breed and held in similar esteem to that of hunting dogs.\n\nFollowing the medieval period, the popularity of the Hovawart began to decline. Newer breeds such as the German Shepherd Dog slowly replaced the Hovawart as a guard and working dog until it had almost disappeared by the beginning of the twentieth century. Around 1915 a group of enthusiasts decided to try to save the breed. Predominant in this group was the zoologist Kurt Friedrich König. They started by looking for dogs in the farms of the Black Forest region. König then started a careful breeding program using these dogs and crossed them with Kuvaszok, Newfoundlands, German Shepherd Dogs, Leonbergers, a Bernese Mountain Dog and an African hunting dog. After much work the group was rewarded in 1922 when the first Hovawart litter was entered into the German Breeding Registry. The enthusiasts continued their work and in 1937 the German Kennel Club officially recognised the Hovawart. All this work was almost undone with the outbreak of the Second World War. Because of their abilities many Hovawarts were used in the German war effort and perished. By 1945 only a few remained. Enthusiasm for the breed remained and in 1947, Otto Schramm and some fellow enthusiasts in Coburg formed a new club, the Rassezuchtverein für Hovawart-Hunde Coburg which is still in existence today. In 1964 the German Kennel Club recognised the Hovawart as the country's seventh working breed and around this time enthusiasm for the breed started to develop in other countries.\n\nThe Hovawart does exceptionally well in search and rescue, tracking and working dog activities. The females are generally lighter in build. In training and especially obedience work the trainer must keep positive reinforcement in mind all the time, as this breed is not as eager to please as many other working dog breeds: it always needs some kind of motivation. It is important to realize that the Hovawart works \"with\" people and not \"for\" people. They do have the ability to think and act independently. Their guarding instinct for example does not require any real training; it is inherent, as it is what they were bred for. The Hovawart may easily become reluctant if training is built only on punishments. \n\n"}
{"id": "2072986", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2072986", "title": "The White Stag group", "text": "The White Stag group\n\nThe White Stag Group was a group of artists centred on the painters Basil Rakoczi and Kenneth Hall.\n\nFounded in London in 1935, the group moved to Ireland in 1939 and stayed until after the Second World War where they gained Irish members like Thurloe Conolly, Paul Egestorff, Stephen Gilbert and Patrick Scott. Their group philosophy, which they called \"Subjectivist Art\", was not associated with any particular style or set belief. Instead, it encouraged an exploration of psychology and of modernist ideas. They also believed in aesthetic experimentation and aesthetics as an objective in art. Although formed in London and guided by two British born artists (Hall and Rakozci) the group has been described as \"an Irish phenomenon\" by the Irish art expert Dr. S.B. Kennedy.\n\nThe group was at the vanguard of modern artistic ideas in Ireland, were involved in the Irish Exhibition of Living Art and influenced Patrick Scott, Gerald Dillon and Louis le Brocquy. The Irish composer Brian Boydell, at that time a visual artist, was also a member of the group. The Irish Museum of Modern Art put on a White Stag retrospective during the summer of 2005.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2072994", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2072994", "title": "Licerio Gerónimo", "text": "Licerio Gerónimo\n\nLicerio Imaya Gerónimo (August 27, 1855 – January 16, 1924) was a general of the Philippine Revolutionary Forces under Emilio Aguinaldo. He is remembered in Philippine-American War annals as the opposing general to Major General Henry Ware Lawton at the Battle of San Mateo on December 19, 1899, where Lawton lost his life along with 13 other Americans. His claim to fame as the general who brought down Henry Ware Lawton is considered ironic, as Lawton had been previously credited with the capture of the Apache leader Geronimo. \n\nGerónimo was born in Sampáloc, Manila on August 27, 1855 to Graciano Geronimo, a native of Montalban, Morong Province, and Flaviana Imaya, a native of Gapan, Nueva Ecija. He was the eldest of six siblings.\n\nWhen he was nine, he lived with his grandfather in a farm in San Miguel de Mayumo, Bulacan Province. At 14, he joined his father in Montalban where he helped in farm chores. Due to poverty, Geronimo did not enjoy the benefits of formal education but he learned how to read and write with the help of a friend who taught him the alphabet.\n\nHe married twice; his first marriage to Francisca Reyes ended with her death. His second wife was Cayetana Lincaoco of San Mateo, who bore him five children. He earned a living by farming, and by working as a boatman on the Marikina and Pasig rivers, transporting passengers to and from Manila.\nGeronimo was recruited into the secret revolutionary society \"Katipunan\" by his godfather, Felix Umali, \"alguacil mayor\" of barrio Wawa, Montalban.\n\nA member of the Katipunan, Gerónimo was part of the rebel group that assaulted the San Juan del Monte gunpowder magazine on August 30, 1896, and organized forces under his command in Montalban, San Mateo, and Marikina. \n\nIn 1897, he took part in the Battle of Mount Puray, and was designated as Division General in charge of Rizal Province after the death of Andres Bonifacio. After the defeat of the Spanish, he was then appointed by General Antonio Luna as the commanding general of the third military zone of Manila, and it was in this capacity that he served in the Battle of San Mateo. It was in this battle that General Henry Ware Lawton, the highest ranking officer of the US expeditionary forces in the Philippines was killed in action. Private Mariano Bonifacio, a member of Tiradores de la Muerte, shot the lethal round that hit the general right through the lungs. \n\nBy 1900, he was appointed as the superior chief of the second and third zones of Manila, and he also held the commands of Morong and Marinduque. On March 29, 1901 Gen. Licerio Gerónimo, 6 officers, and 40 soldiers surrender at San Mateo, Manila to Col. J Milton Thompson and the 42nd Regiment of Infantry. Col Thompson informed Gen. Gerónimo of Emilio Aguinaldo's capture 6 days prior. He remained skeptical until Col. Thompson produced a newspaper headlining Aguinaldo's capture. Shortly afterwards, Gen. Licerio Gerónimo, along with his troops, took the Oath of Allegiance to the United States.\n\nGerónimo later worked for the United States and enlisted for the Philippine Constabulary on June 1, 1902 as an inspector, successfully bringing in bandits and former soldiers roaming the countryside. He was also part of the search party that brought down General Luciano San Miguel and his followers on March 27, 1903.\n\nHe left the constabulary on May 16, 1904 and returned to work his farm in Barrio San Rafael, Montalban.\n\nGerónimo died on January 16, 1924 and his remains were interred in the \"Mausoleo de los Veteranos de la Revolución\" in Manila North Cemetery, La Loma, Manila. His remains were then reinterred in the base of the Licerio Geronimo Memorial located in Rodriguez, Rizal on February 20, 1993.\n\nBarangay Geronimo and General Licerio Gerónimo Memorial National High School in Rodriguez, Rizal, and General Licerio Gerónimo Public Elementary School and a street in his hometown of Sampáloc, Manila were named in his honor.\n\nUnder House Bill No. 1341 enacted under the 17th Congress of the Philippines on February 2019, The Hilltop Rizal PNP Command in Taytay, Rizal was renamed to Camp Licerio Geronimo.\n\n"}
{"id": "2073004", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2073004", "title": "Antonis Remos", "text": "Antonis Remos\n\nAntonis Remos (, ) (born Antonios Paschalidis; ; 19 June 1970) is a Greek singer.\n\nHe was born in Düsseldorf, West Germany. Later his family moved back to their native Thessaloniki, Greece, where he finished school. During his childhood he got involved with music and learned to play the guitar.\n\nAfter many appearances in Thessaloniki, in 1995 Antonis Remos had his first live appearance in Athens. He performed live next to famous artists, such as Dimitris Mitropanos, Stefanos Korkolis and Marios Tokas. This same year he signed his first contract with Sony Music Greece, planning to release his first album. The first album which was released in 1996 and was titled after his name, became platinum in a few months. In April 1998, his second album, \"Kairos Na Pame Parakato\" (\"Time to Move On\") was released. For the first time, some of the most-prestigious Greek composers had given their songs to Antonis Remos, and for a second time in a row, the album gained platinum status.\n\nIn March 2000, Remos performed the title song of the movie \"\"I Agapi Einai Elefantas\"\" (\"Love is an elephant\") written by Minos Matsas. The soundtrack gained gold status.\n\nA CD single release followed, which was titled \"Fly with me\". It is actually a remix of the big hit \"Meine\" (Stay) having Danish artist Remee Guitar's rap-ing vocals. During winter 2000 Remos and Sakis Rouvas performed live together in Diogenis Palace.\n\nIn June 2001 he released a double live CD from a party given in Apollon Palace titled \"Mia Nihta Mono\" (\"Only for a night\"). The album gained platinum status.\n\nDuring winter 2001, Antonis Remos performed live next to Giannis Parios. A CD single was also released in 2001. In spring 2002 Remos released the new album \"Kardia Mou Min Anisiheis\" (\"Don't worry, my love\"). Its songs were written by Giorgos Theofanous. The album gained triple platinum status, becoming one of the most-popular albums through the years.\n\nDuring winter 2002, Remos performed live next to Alkistis Protopsalti. They kept performing together during the summer in Thessaloniki. They also traveled abroad, giving concerts all over Canada and the USA. In 2003, he released a new album titled \"Mia Anapnoi\" (\"A breath\"), and the songs were written once again by Giorgos Theofanous. The album gained platinum status.\n\nDuring winter 2003 Remos had live performances. He shared the stage with 5 composers, each one for 45 nights: Mimis Plessas, Giannis Spanos, Antonis Vardis, Kostas Hatzis and Giorgos Theofanous.\n\nIn the same period, Remos sang Mikis Theodorakis' songs \"\"An thymitheis to oniro mou\"\" (\"If you remember my dream\") and \"Faedra\". They were both released in a CD single and became the title song of a completely new TV series.\n\nDuring summer 2004, the Mikis Theodorakis orchestra presented the composer's music written for theatrical plays and movies, with Remos as the lead voice, along with the actors Petros Filipidis, Natassa Manisalis and Giannis Samsiaris.\nHe released a live recording of the appearances next to the 5 big composers. The album gained double platinum status. Later that winter Antonis Remos appeared live with George Dalaras, in the brand-new \"Athens Arena\". After the discovery of a scandal, Antonis Remos was forced to serve his army obligations. Because of his age, he served only for forty days.\n\nIn 2005, Antonis Remos performed live in Athens Arena for a second year in the row. This time he sang with Mihalis Hatzigiannis.\nAlso in 2005, his new album \"\"San Anemos\"\" (\"Like a wind\")was released. It was the third album with composer Giorgos Theofanous. In this album, 3 singers joined Antonis Remos in 3 different songs. The first song was with Marinella, the second song with the famous singer Giorgos Margaritis, and the third song was with the Italian artist Massimo Di Cataldo. The album gained platinum status.\nDuring winter 2006 Antonis Remos appeared live in the Athens Arena, but this time next to Marinella, a Greek singer who was restarting her live appearances.\n\nAntonis Remos celebrated his 10 years in discography by releasing a triple \"Best Of\" album with Sony BMG Greece which went platinum. In summer 2007, Remos did a tour around Greece, giving 25 sold-out concerts for the first time after 10 years. He had with him a new band from Thessaloniki named \"Onirama\". Antonis Remos and Onirama met in MAD TV's secret concert that was given in February and from that night, a new album was released. Hit songs of Antonis Remos were \"retouched\" by Onirama, gaining gold status under the title \"\"Antonis Remos in Concert feat. Onirama\"\".\n\nIn the winter of 2007 he performed for a second year with Marinella in Athens Arena. The two artists continued these performances until March 2008.\n\nAfterwards, Remos and Sakis Rouvas joined forces for a worldwide tour in Canada, the United States, Australia and Africa, from 13 March to 25 May. In winter 2008, Remos performed alone for the first time in the Athens Arena. The success was huge, and the appearances got an extension until the end of May. At the same time he released his eight studio album \"Alithies & Psemata\" (\"Truths and Lies\"). The album gained gold status immediately, and later platinum.\n\nOn 16 March, Antonis Remos began his first European tour in Brussels, Stuttgart, Frankfurt, Nuremberg, Düsseldorf, Amsterdam, the Stockholm, London, Istanbul, Belgrade, Tel Aviv. Later this summer Remos along with Emigre gave concerts throughout Greece.\n\nIn 2009 Antonis Remos presented in Athens the biggest and most impressive Live Show that Greeks have ever seen. Titled \"Night and Day\" in Athens Arena, Antonis Remos introduced a different kind of entertainment. The show was on for more than 5 months and it was a sold out every day, coming up to at least 350.000 people have visited.\n\nIn 2010 he released a new song called \"Terma i Istoria\", and presented it live through his show \"Love Stories\" in Diogenis Studio, another year of sold out appearances.\n\nAntonis Remos has travelled all around the world, people follow him in his concerts and eager for his songs. He has performed live with huge names of the international music scene, such as Julio Inglesias (Myconos 2014), Gloria Gaynor (New York & Athens 2014), Danny Brialliant (Myconos 2015), Zeljko Joksimovic (Belgrade & Athens), Gipsy Kings (Myconos 2016).\n\nHis latest album \"Spasmena kommatia tis kardias\" has already gained platinum status on the first week of release.\n\nAll the albums listed underneath were released and charted in Greece.\n\n"}
{"id": "2073008", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2073008", "title": "S. Dhanabalan", "text": "S. Dhanabalan\n\nSuppiah Dhanabalan , born 8 August 1937), also known as S. Dhanabalan, is a former Singaporean politician. He was a high-profile political leader in Singapore in the 1980s and held several cabinet positions in the 1980s and early 1990s under prime ministers Lee Kuan Yew and Goh Chok Tong.\n\nDhanabalan was born in 1937 to a Singaporean Indian family of Tamil descent. He was raised as a Hindu by his father, Arumugam Suppiah, a clerk at a naval base. But later in his life he became a devout Christian (Brethren). His mother is Gunaretnam Suppiah. He went to Victoria School; and later to University of Malaya where he earned his B.A. degree in Economics, earning a Second Class Honours (Upper Division). He was the third child and the eldest son in a Tamil family of three girls and three boys.\n\nHe joined (Ministry of Finance) as an Administrative Officer from 1960–68. During his tenure, he helped to form the Economic Development Board and DBS Bank.\n\nHe subsequently left the Civil Service and joined DBS as a Vice-President from 1968–1970. He was promoted to the position of Executive Vice-President and continue to serve from 1970–1978.\n\nIn the 1976 Singapore general election, Dhanabalan was elected as Member of Parliament for Kallang SMC, as a People's Action Party (PAP) candidate. He was promoted to a Cabinet Minister and served in various portfolios, including Foreign Affairs, Culture, Community Development, National Development and Trade and Industry.\n\nWhen Lee Kuan Yew was preparing for his successor, he identified a handful of ministers he considered suitable for the job, including Tony Tan, Ong Teng Cheong, Goh Chok Tong and Dhanabalan.\n\nIn his public account of why he chose them and what he felt were their strengths and weaknesses, Lee said his preferred successor was Tony Tan, who went on to become the 7th President of the Republic of Singapore. He felt that while the other three were all of prime ministerial calibre, each had a particular weakness: Goh was too stiff, lacking eloquence in public speaking, and Ong was too closely aligned with the Chinese-speaking masses, lacking appeal to other communities. In the case of Dhanabalan, Lee felt the 76% ethnic Chinese electorate was not yet ready for a prime minister of Indian ethnicity. Lee left the ultimate decision to the second generation ministers themselves, who went on to choose Goh.\n\n\n\n\nDhanabalan is a devout Christian (Brethren) and attends a small church in Bukit Panjang – Bukit Panjang Gospel Chapel. He is married to Christine Tan Khoon Hiap, a Chinese Singaporean of Hokkien ancestry and they have one son, Ramesh Dhanabalan, and one daughter, Shandini Dhanabalan.\n\n"}
{"id": "2073012", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2073012", "title": "Park Shin-yang", "text": "Park Shin-yang\n\nPark Shin-yang (; born November 1, 1968) is a South Korean actor.\n\nHe majored in acting at Dongguk University in South Korea and studied at the Shevkin Theater University in Russia. \n\nFrom 1996 he won a number of acting awards in South Korea.\n\nA graduate of Dongguk University and the Shevkin Theater School in Russia, Park debuted in the drama \"Yuri\" in 1996.\nHe became famous after appearing in the hit melodramas \"The Letter\" (1997) and \"A Promise\" (1998). Park earned several Best Actor prizes for his role in \"A Promise\".\n\nIn the early 2000s, Park continued to appear in major films, such as the gangster comedy, \"Hi! Dharma!\" as well as heist thriller, \"The Big Swindle\".\n\nIn 2004, he gained wide recognition as one of South Korea's lead actors with the television series \"Lovers in Paris\". With an average viewership rating of 40+% and a peak of 56.3%, \"Lovers in Paris\" became one of the most highly rated Korean dramas of all time. Park was recognized for his performance, winning the Grand Prize (Daesang) with his costar Kim Jung-eun at the SBS Drama Awards. The drama sparked many trends and parodies with entertainers mimicking Parks’ famous line “Let’s go, baby!” and \"Why can't you say it? Why can't you say that this is my man, that this is the man I love?” in variety shows.\n\nHe has also starred in television drama \"War of Money\" (2007), which was a huge ratings hit and earned him the Grand Prize for a second time at the SBS Drama Awards. The series was thus extended for 4 episodes, with the producers agreeing to pay Park a fee of per episode. However, the producers later reneged on the deal, alleging that Park tried to capitalize on the drama's high popularity by asking for too much money. Park took legal action, and in November 2009, he won the lawsuit. Consequently, the Corea Drama Production Association (CODA) banned Park from appearing in any dramas produced by members of the association for an indefinite period.\n\nMeanwhile, during the lawsuit, Park starred in the critically acclaimed historical drama \"Painter of the Wind\" (2008) alongside Moon Geun-young.\n\nAfter a three-year absence on television, the ban on Park was lifted in 2011. He then returned in the medical drama, \"Sign\" (2011).\n\nIn early 2013, Park starred in the comedy film, \"Man on the Edge\", which was a box office hit.\n\nAfter a five-year hiatus, Park made his television comeback in 2016 with KBS2's legal drama \"My Lawyer, Mr. Jo\". He is set to reprise his role in the second season of \"My Lawyer, Mr. Jo\", which will premiere in 2019.\n\nPark married Baek Hae-jin in 2002. They have a daughter, Park Seung-chae.\n\nIn 2004, the Museum of Tolstoi appointed Park as ambassador in South Korea.\n\n"}
{"id": "2073014", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2073014", "title": "Nile Clumps", "text": "Nile Clumps\n\nThe Nile Clumps are a series of tree clumps near Amesbury on Salisbury Plain in Wiltshire, England, purportedly planted to commemorate the Battle of the Nile.\n\nBetween 1 and 3 August 1798 a British fleet, under Admiral Horatio Nelson, defeated a French fleet, under François-Paul Brueys d'Aigalliers, in Aboukir Bay, in the Battle of the Nile. The French fleet consisted of thirteen ships of the line and four frigates. Nelson had fourteen ships of the line. All but four of the French ships were destroyed or captured. No British ships were lost.\n\nAfter Nelson's death at the Battle of Trafalgar, it is believed that Charles Douglas, 6th Marquess of Queensberry, a friend of Nelson's mistress, Emma Hamilton, planted clumps of beech trees on his estate near Amesbury to commemorate him. Each clump represented the location of a British or French ship at a particular point in the battle.\n\nThere may have been as many as twenty-six clumps originally, spread out over three quarters of a mile, of which some seventeen remain.\n\nSeventeen clumps remain today and are now under preservation orders. However, as beech has a natural life of some 200 years many are dying off. Many clumps are being replanted by local volunteers, each with about 200 mixed trees including beech, maple and hawthorn. Amongst the clumps that have been replanted are those for \"Swiftsure\", \"Defence\", \"L'Orient\" and \"Bellerophon\".\nThe evidence that the clumps were planted to commemorate the battle is based on local lore and a similarity between the layout of the woods and the position of ships shown in Robert Dodd's map of the battle. The UK National Maritime Museum has also suggested that the link between the Battle of the Nile and the clumps is \"quite likely\".\n\nMost of the surviving clumps stand on the north side of the A303 to the west of Amesbury and inside the Stonehenge World Heritage Site, although several used to stand south and along the course of the road. Several of the remaining clumps stand on land owned by the National Trust's Stonehenge Landscape property.\n\nOn 13 November 2003 the London Daily Mail reported that on the former Swarland Estate, near Alnwick [in North East England], once owned by Nelson's friend and agent Alexander Davison, a line of trees, viewed from above, takes on the shape of the coastline of the Nile delta. Other trees are in the positions of the British and French ships. Aerial photographs suggest that the trees may be at . Davison also erected an obelisk at Swarland. A plaque at the obelisk mentions the woods and states that they are to the west of the monument.\n\nThe Nile Clumps are sometimes incorrectly referred to as the Trafalgar Clumps. There is a separate Trafalgar Woods project to plant a total of 250,000 trees in a series of woods across the UK to commemorate the 2005 bicentenary of the Battle of Trafalgar. There will be a total of 33 clumps, each representing a ship which took part in the battle. The largest will be Victory Wood in Kent with 100,000 trees.\n\n"}
{"id": "2073015", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2073015", "title": "SS Bothnia", "text": "SS Bothnia\n\nSS \"Bothnia\" was a British steam passenger ship that sailed on the trans-Atlantic route between Liverpool and New York City or Boston. The ship was built by J & G Thomson of Clydebank, and launched on 4 March 1874 for the British & North American Royal Mail Steam Packet Company, which became the Cunard Line in 1879.\n\nConstructed with an iron hull ship, and 4,535 gross register tons, and with a length of 422 feet. She was powered by a 600 hp 2-cylinder compound steam engine, barque-rigged on three masts, and had a top speed of 12½ knots. She could carry up to 1,400 passengers, 300 in first class and 1,100 in 3rd class.\n\n\"Bothnia\" sailed on her maiden voyage from Liverpool to New York via Queenstown on 8 August 1874, and on 15 April 1885, made her first voyage from Liverpool to Boston. She was withdrawn from service in mid-1898 and then sold, and was scrapped in Marseille in 1899.\n"}
{"id": "2073030", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2073030", "title": "Tom Quest", "text": "Tom Quest\n\nTom Quest is the central character in a series of eight adventure novels for adolescent boys written by \"Lone Ranger\" series author Fran Striker. The first six novels were published by Grosset & Dunlap between 1947 and 1952. The series was later reprinted by Clover Books, when #7-8 were published. The six Grosset & Dunlap titles were issued in dust jacket; the Clover Books reprints and their two original titles have picture covers and no dust jackets. The plot of volume #8 was lifted from Striker's \"Gene Autry and the Redwood Pirates.\"\n\nTom Quest, the son of a famous scientist and explorer, finds adventure with newspaperman Whiz Walton and a gargantuan Texan named Gulliver. A double spiral symbol, designed by Tom's father, appears on the spine of the books, and sometimes figures in the plot. In the first book, Tom discovers that his father, long believed dead, may still be alive, and, in the second, Tom, Whiz, and Gulliver travel to Central America in search of him. The third and fourth books are also loosely connected, after which each book stands alone. The plots usually involve some kind of criminal activity thwarted by Tom and his pals.\n\n"}
{"id": "2073037", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2073037", "title": "River martin", "text": "River martin\n\nThe river martins form a distinctive subfamily Pseudochelidoninae within the swallow and martin bird family Hirundinidae. The two species are the African river martin \"Pseudochelidon eurystomina\", found in the Congo and Gabon, and the white-eyed river martin \"Pseudochelidon sirintarae\", known only from one site in Thailand. These are medium-sized, largely black swallows that have a light buoyant flight and feed on insects caught in the air. They appear to be more terrestrial than other swallows, frequently walking rather than perching, and the white-eyed may be crepuscular. The African species excavates nest holes in sandy ridges in rivers, while the breeding locations and habits of the Asian bird are unknown.\n\nWhen the African river martin was first discovered in the 19th century, Gustav Hartlaub thought it was a roller, and later authors either placed it in its own family, or with the woodswallows. Study of the anatomy revealed that the species was closest to the swallows and martins, but that it possessed a number of distinctive features, such as its robust legs and feet and stout bill. These indicated that it should be placed in a separate subfamily. The two river martin species are usually considered to belong to a single genus, \"Pseudochelidon\", due to their having a number of structural similarities. However, Brooke proposed that the white-eyed river martin be placed in a separate monotypic genus \"Eurochelidon\".\n\nThe African river martin has a restricted distribution; it appears to be locally numerous, although its true status has not been fully investigated. The white-eyed river martin was discovered as recently as 1969 and is only known from specimens and anecdotal evidence – no modern ornithologists have seen the species in the wild, and its breeding grounds are unknown. It may be extinct, although a possible sighting was reported in 2004.\n\nWhen a specimen of the African river martin from Gabon was first formally described by German zoologist Gustav Hartlaub in 1861, it was not initially identified as a member of the swallow and martin family. Hartlaub placed it with the rollers, and later authors either put it in its own separate family, or with the woodswallows. It was only following study of the anatomy of the species by Lowe that it was determined to be closely related to the swallows and martins, but sufficiently different that it could be placed in a separate subfamily Pseudochelidoninae.\nThe genus name \"Pseudochelidon\" comes from the Ancient Greek prefix \"ψευδο/pseudo\", \"false\", and \"χελιδων\"/\"chelidôn\", \"swallow\", reflecting its distinctiveness from the \"true\" swallows.\n\nFor many years the African river martin was the sole member of its genus and subfamily until the discovery of the white-eyed river martin, \"Pseudochelidon eurystomina\", by Thai ornithologist Kitti Thonglongya in 1968. Although some authorities follow Brooke in placing that species in a separate genus \"Eurochelidon\" due to its significant differences from the African species, it remains a member of the same subfamily. Genetic studies confirmed that the two river martins form a distinct clade from the typical swallows in the Hirundininae subfamily.\n\nThe river martins are in some ways intermediate between typical swallows and other passerines: they have stout bills, large feet and relatively strong legs, which is unusual in aerial feeders. They also have a large syrinx (vocal organ) and a different bronchial structure. The extent of their differences from other swallows and the wide geographical separation of these two martins suggest that they are relict populations of a group of species that diverged from the main swallow lineage early in its evolutionary history, and they may be the most primitive of the swallows. Like other early hirundine lineages, they nest in burrows, rather than adopted nest holes or mud nests.\n\nBoth species are medium-sized (), mainly black-plumaged swallows, unlikely to be confused with any other hirundine in their respective ranges. Adults of both species have large, blue-glossed heads, a green tinge to the body plumage, and brown wings. The sexes are similar in plumage. The white-eyed has elongated outer tail feathers, a whitish rump, a white eye and eye-ring, and a yellow bill. The African has a red eye-ring and bill and lacks a contrasting rump patch or tail streamers. The juveniles of both species are similar to the adults, but with brown heads, and young white-eyeds lack the long tail streamers of the adults.\n\nThe African river martin has a \"chee chee\" or \"cheer-cheer-cheer\" call when it is flying in flocks. It is very vocal during migration, giving harsh gull-like calls, and appears to have a jingling courtship song. No calls have been described for the white-eyed river martin.\n\nThe two members of the subfamily have geographically separate ranges. The African river martin breeds along the Congo and Ubangi rivers in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. It is migratory, wintering in coastal savannah in southern Gabon and the Republic of Congo; it has recently been discovered to nest in beach ridges and grassland in its coastal wintering areas. The white-eyed river martin is known only from its wintering site at Bueng Boraphet lake in Thailand, where it was seen between the months of November and February. It may be migratory, but its breeding grounds and habitat are unknown, although river valleys in Northern Thailand or south-western China are possibilities, as are Cambodia and Myanmar. However, doubts have been cast on whether it is actually migratory at all.\n\nThe African species' breeding habitat consists of forested rivers with islands with sandy shores for breeding. The nesting grounds of the white-eyed river martin are unknown, but if the breeding habitat resembles that of its relative, it is likely to be the forested valleys of large rivers, which can provide sandbars and islands for nesting, and woodland over which the birds can catch insect prey. The African river martin uses coastal savannah as its winter habitat. Based on its only known wintering site, the non-breeding habitat of the white-eyed is assumed to be in the vicinity of open fresh water for feeding, with reed-beds for the night-time roost.\n\nBreeding behaviour is known only for the African river martin. It nests in large colonies of up to 800 birds from December to April, when the river levels are low. Each pair excavates a long tunnel in the exposed sandbanks. The pocket at the end of the tunnel has a few twigs and leaves to serve as a nest, onto which two to four unspotted white eggs are laid. It has chasing flight displays and will walk on the ground; it also displays on the ground, but the function of this is uncertain. It rarely perches during the breeding season. Although it has been assumed that the breeding habits of the white-eyed species resemble those of the African species, distinctive differences in foot and toe morphology suggest that it might not use a burrow for nesting.\n\nThe African river martin feeds in flocks over river and forest, often far from water. It eats insects, mainly taking winged ants. The flight is strong and fast, interspersed with glides. Wintering birds regularly perch on treetops, wires and roofs. The white-eyed river martin feeds on insects, including beetles, which are caught on the wing. Given its size and unusual mouth structure, it may take larger insects than other swallows. This species is described as graceful and buoyant in flight, and, like its African relative, appears reluctant to use perches. This behaviour, together with its unusual toe-shape and the fact that mud was found on the toes of one of the first specimens, suggests that this species may be relatively terrestrial. In winter, it roosts with barn swallows in reedbeds. Pamela C. Rasmussen suggested that, given its unusually large eyes, the species might be nocturnal or crepuscular, a factor that could make it highly cryptic and thus partly explain how such a distinctive species remained undetected for so long. Although the fact that the first specimens were supposedly collected roosting at night in reed-beds might be a contraindication, it is possible that the birds might not actually have been caught at the roost; or they might be crepuscular, feeding at dawn and dusk; or they might be capable of both diurnal and nocturnal behaviour, depending on the season or local circumstances.\n\nThe white-eyed river martin was seen in Thailand in 1972, 1977 and 1980, but not definitely since. There are unconfirmed sightings from Thailand in 1986 and Cambodia in 2004. It is classified as critically endangered by the International Union for the Conservation of Nature and Natural Resources (IUCN). This designation means that a species' numbers have decreased, or will decrease, by 80% within three generations. This species may be extinct, but the IUCN will not categorise it as such until extensive targeted surveys have been conducted. Despite legal protection under Appendix 1 of the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES) agreement, it was captured by locals along with other swallows for sale as food or for release by devout Buddhists. Following its discovery by ornithologists, trappers were reported to have caught as many as 120 and sold them to the director of the Nakhon Sawan Fisheries Station who was unable to keep them alive in captivity. The small population may therefore have become non-viable.\n\nOne factor that reduces the chances of re-discovering the white-eyed martin is the drastic decline in the numbers of swallows wintering at Bueng Boraphet, its only known site, from the hundreds of thousands reported around 1970 to maximum counts of 8,000 made in the winter of 1980–1981. It is not certain whether this represents a real decline or a shift in site in response to persecution. Other potential causes for the species' decline include the disturbance of riverine sand bars, the construction of dams which flood the area upstream and alter the downstream hydrology, deforestation, and increasing conversion of its habitat to agriculture. Very few swallows now roost in the Bueng Boraphet reedbeds, preferring sugarcane plantations, and, despite searching, the white-eyed river martin has not been found in other nearby large swallow roosts. Bueng Boraphet has been declared a non-hunting area in an effort to protect the species, but surveys to find this martin have been unsuccessful. Past surveys include several at Bueng Boraphet, a 1969 survey of the Nan Yom and Wang Rivers of northern Thailand, and a 1996 survey of rivers in northern Laos. A possible unverified sighting was reported in 2004.\n\nThe total population size of the African river martin is unknown. In the late 1980s, it appeared to be common, if local, and large numbers were seen on migration in Gabon. However, it is particularly poorly known in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC), and it is unclear if there is any relationship between the birds breeding in the DRC and those breeding in coastal areas of Gabon and the Republic of Congo. A flock of 15,000 birds was seen in 1997, and a mixed flock with rosy bee-eater \"Merops malimbicus\" was estimated at 100,000 birds; nevertheless, due to the lack of detailed information, the species is classed by the IUCN as Data Deficient. In the 1950s, the species was caught and eaten in large quantities in the DRC by the local population, and this practice could be increasing. Breeding colonies in river sandbars are also liable to flooding, but thousands of birds were breeding on the grasslands east of Gamba as recently as 2005.\n\n"}
{"id": "2073042", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2073042", "title": "Arielle Dombasle", "text": "Arielle Dombasle\n\nArielle Dombasle (born April 27, 1953) is an American-born French singer, actress, director and model. Her breakthrough roles were in Éric Rohmer's \"Pauline at the Beach\" (1983) and Alain Robbe-Grillet's \"The Blue Villa\" (1995). She also starred in the 1984 miniseries \"Lace\" and its 1985 sequel \"Lace II\". Since 1978 she has released twenty-one singles and ten albums and has directed four movies.\n\nShe was born Arielle Laure Maxime Sonnery in Hartford, Connecticut, the daughter of Jean-Louis Melchior Sonnery de Fromental, a silk manufacturer, and Francion Garreau-Dombasle. She descends from French-American immigrants in Mexico under her grandfather's diplomatic tenure. The family's surname was created in 1912, when Dombasle's grandfather René Sonnery (1887–1925), an industrialist from Lyon, married Anne-Marie Berthon du Fromental. Arielle took the pseudonym \"Arielle Dombasle\" in memory of her mother who died at the age of 36. She was raised as a Roman Catholic.\n\nDombasle and her brother Gilbert were raised in Mexico by their maternal grandparents after their mother's death in 1964. She attended the Lycée Franco-Mexicain. She was also raised at Château de Chaintré, the Sonnery family estate near Mâcon, Saône-et-Loire. Her maternal grandfather, Maurice Garreau-Dombasle, was a close friend of and advisor to Charles de Gaulle and served as the French ambassador to Mexico. Her maternal grandmother was Man'ha Garreau-Dombasle (née Germaine Massenet, 1898–1999), a writer and poet who translated Rabindranath Tagore's works into French and was a longtime friend of the science fiction writer Ray Bradbury, who dedicated his 1972 novel \"The Halloween Tree\" to her.\n\nDombasle embarked on a career as an actress and singer after attending the Conservatoire International de Musique de Paris and further studies in Mexico. Dombasle has appeared in several Hollywood productions, but most of her acting work has been in French, unlike her albums which are mostly in Spanish and English. She directed four films, \"Les Pyramides Bleues\", \"Chassé-croisé\", \"Opium\" and \"Alien Crystal Palace\". She once described her own looks as \"a Crazy Horse dancing girl\".\n\nIn 2006, she released both albums \"Amor Amor\" and \"C'est si Bon\" in the USA. In September 2006, she also performed three nights in a row at the Supper Club in New York City in front of Michael Douglas, John Malkovich, Lauren Bacall, Salman Rushdie, Andrée Putman and Charlie Rose. The latter invited Arielle Dombasle to promote her albums on The Charlie Rose Show.\n\nArielle Dombasle then released several albums in France : Glamour à Mort !, Diva Latina, Arielle Dombasle by ERA and La Rivière Atlantique with French rocker Nicolas Ker.\n\nDombasle joined \"Les Grosses Têtes\", a French radio programme, in January 2016.\n\nThat same year, Arielle Dombasle released her fragrance, Le Secret d'Arielle, within Mauboussin. The promotional campaign was created by the French artist Leonardo Marcos.\n\nDombasle is the first contestant who was confirmed for the eighth season of \"Danse avec les Stars\" (French version of \"Dancing with the Stars\").\n\nIn 2018, along with Mareva Galanter, Inna Modja and Helena Noguerra, Arielle Dombasle recreated the French band Les Parisiennes.\n\nTwo years later, in 2020, Arielle Dombasle announced she would be releasing a second joint album with Nicolas Ker which is entitled Empire. The album was supposed to be released on April 24, 2020 but was postponed to June 16, 2020 due to the COVID-19 pandemic.\n\nDombasle is the third wife of writer Bernard-Henri Lévy. They married on June 19, 1993 at Saint-Paul-de-Vence on the Côte d'Azur where they have a villa. She has two stepchildren, Antonin-Balthazar Lévy and Justine Lévy, a novelist. She was previously married to Dr. Paul Albou, described by \"Vanity Fair\" as a \"playboy society dentist, 32 years her senior.\"\n\nDombasle is vegetarian. In 2016, she campaigned against abattoirs (slaughterhouses) for PETA.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2073049", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2073049", "title": "Wets and dries", "text": "Wets and dries\n\nDuring the 1980s, members of the Conservative Party in Britain who opposed some of the more hard-line policies of Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher were often referred to by their opponents as \"wets\". Thatcher coined the usage in 1979–80, with the meaning of feeble, lacking hardness, or willing to compromise with the unions. The label was especially applied to senior members of her government who were nevertheless outside Thatcher's inner circle and who expressed opposition to her strict monetarist policies designed to tackle inflation, and her cuts to public spending.\n\nHugo Young identifies the most important \"inner\" wets as Jim Prior, Peter Walker, and Sir Ian Gilmour, as well as Lord Carrington and Norman St John-Stevas. The \"outer\" wets were more fragmented and less visible. They included Francis Pym, Michael Heseltine and Lord Hailsham.\n\nGilmour was the most outspoken, delivering a lecture at Cambridge in February 1980 where he argued: \"In the Conservative view, economic liberalism à la Professor Hayek, because of its starkness and its failure to create a sense of community, is not a safeguard of political freedom but a threat to it.\"\n\nIn the 1980's Nick's Diner was started. Named in honour of Nicholas Scott, at the time a rising star of the anti-thatcher left of the party. A convivial meeting ground for Conservative MPs on the left of the party. \n\nIn retaliation to being labelled as \"wet\", Thatcher's opponents within the party began referring to her supporters as the \"dries\". \nPolicies which came to be labelled as \"dry\" included foremostly reducing public spending, cutting taxes, raising interest rates, tightly controlling the money supply, and reducing the regulatory power of the state – all policies which were closely associated with Thatcher.\n\nOutside of the Parliamentary Conservative Party, the youth sections of the Party saw increasingly bitter factional battles between \"wets\" and \"dries\". The Young Conservatives wing of the party remained in the hands of a strong \"wet\" and One Nation (Tory Reform Group) faction until 1989, whilst the Federation of Conservative Students remained in the hands of an alliance of libertarian and Monday Club supporters.\n\nHistorically, English public school sports were divided between \"wets\" - who rowed - and \"dries\" - who played cricket or rugby. Slang came to described as \"wet\" someone judged to be too weak, feeble or \"soppy\" to play field sports. Within the political context, the term was used by Thatcher's supporters as both as a noun and as an adjective to characterise people or policies which Thatcher would have considered weak or \"wet\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2073051", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2073051", "title": "Real Data Transport", "text": "Real Data Transport\n\nReal Data Transport (RDT) is a proprietary transport protocol for the actual audio-video data, developed by RealNetworks in the 1990s. It is commonly used in companion with a control protocol for streaming media like the IETF's Real Time Streaming Protocol (RTSP).\n\nA non-proprietary alternative for RDT is IETF's Real-time Transport Protocol (RTP), which is also implemented in RealNetworks players.\n\nAs reported in a 2002 book about firewalls, RDT used two unidirectional UDP connections, one for the data sent from the server to the client and another in the opposite direction for retransmission requests. The same book reported that RealNetworks' G2 server used RDT in this configuration by default. Another 2003 book reported that RDT was also seen carried over Transmission Control Protocol (TCP), as a fall-back mechanism.\n\nRDT is now included as part of the Helix Community project.\n\n"}
