{"id": "2125801", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2125801", "title": "History of the Jews in Poland before the 18th century", "text": "History of the Jews in Poland before the 18th century\n\nThe history of the Jews in Poland before the 18th century covers the period of Jewish-Polish history from its origins, roughly until the political and socio-economic circumstances leading to the dismemberment of the Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth in the second half of the 18th century by the neighbouring empires (\"see also: Partitions of Poland\").\n\nThe first Jews arrived in the territory of modern Poland in the 10th century. Travelling along the trade routes leading eastwards to Kiev and Bukhara, the Jewish merchants (who included the Radhanites) also crossed the areas of Silesia. One of them, a diplomat and merchant from the Moorish town of Tortosa in Al-Andalus, known under his Arabic name Ibrahim ibn Jakub was the first chronicler to mention the Polish state under the rule of prince Mieszko I. The first actual mention of Jews in Polish chronicles occurs in the 11th century. It appears that Jews were then living in Gniezno, at that time the capital of the Polish kingdom of Piast dynasty. Some of them were wealthy, owning Christian serfs in keeping with the feudal system of the times. The first permanent Jewish community is mentioned in 1085 by a Jewish scholar Jehuda ha Kohen in the city of Przemyśl.\n\nThe first extensive Jewish emigration from Western Europe to Poland occurred at the time of the First Crusade (1098). Under Boleslaw III of Poland (1102–1139), the Jews, encouraged by the tolerant régime of this ruler, settled throughout Poland, including over the border into Lithuanian territory as far as Kiev. Boleslaw, for his part, recognized the utility of the Jews in the development of the commercial interests of his country. The Prince of Kraków, Mieszko III the Old (1173–1202), in his endeavor to establish law and order in his domains, prohibited all violence against the Jews, particularly attacks upon them by unruly students (\"żacy\"). Boys guilty of such attacks, or their parents, were made to pay fines as heavy as those imposed for sacrilegious acts.\n\nCoins unearthed in 1872 in the Polish village of Glenbok bear Hebrew inscriptions, suggesting that Jews were in charge of the coinage in Great and Little Poland during the 12th century. These coins bear emblems having inscriptions of various characters; in some examples only the name of the king or prince being given, as, for instance, \"Prince Meshko\", while in others the surname is added, as \"Meshek the Blessed\" or \"the Just.\" Some of the coins, moreover, bear inscriptions having no direct reference to Poland, to the reigning princes, or even to the coin itself, but referring to incidents of a purely Jewish character, as, for instance, \"Rejoice, Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob\"; \"Abraham Duchs and Abraham Pech (some scholars, including Maximilian Gumplovicz and Avraham Firkovich, identified, probably erroneously, \"Pech\" with the Khazar title of Bek).\" Similar coins had been discovered elsewhere several years earlier; but, owing to their peculiar inscriptions, doubts were expressed, even by such a noted numismatist as Joachim Lelewel, as to their being coins at all. Their true nature was revealed only with the discovery of the Glenbok treasure. All the inscriptions on the coins of the 12th century are in Hebrew; and they sufficiently prove that at the time in question the Jews had already established themselves in positions of trust and prominence, and were contented with their lot.\n\n\"The Jewish coiners\", says Bershadski, \"might have been people who came to the country only occasionally, and for that special purpose.\" But there is found among the few documents dating from the second half of the 13th century a charter issued by Premysł II, successor of Boleslaw of Kalisz, confirming a previous grant of privileges whereby the Jew Rupin, son of Yoshka, is permitted to dispose of his inheritance, a hill (\"montem\") situated near the boundary of his estate of Podgozhe. It is difficult to assume that the acquisition of real estate, its transmission by inheritance, and its further cession to the \"Jewish elders of Kalisz and their entire community\" were permitted on the strength of the charter of privileges granted by Boleslaw of Kalisz to Jewish immigrants, for the charter makes no mention of a Jewish community, nor of the right of Jews to acquire landed property. \"The facts\", says Bershadski, \"made plain by the grant of Przemysł II prove that the Jews were ancient inhabitants of Poland, and that the charter of Boleslaw of Kalisz, copied almost verbally from the privileges of Ottocar of Bohemia, was merely a written approval of relations that had become gradually established, and had received the sanction of the people of the country.\" Bershadski comes to the conclusion that as early as the 13th century there existed in Poland a number of Jewish communities, the most important of which was that of Kalisz.\n\nEarly in the 13th century Jews owned land in Polish Silesia, Greater Poland and Kuyavia, including the village of Mały Tyniec. There were also established Jewish communities in Wrocław, Świdnica, Głogów, Lwówek, Płock, Kalisz, Szczecin, Gdańsk and Gniezno. It is clear that the Jewish communities must have been well-organized by then. Also, the earliest known artifact of Jewish settlement on Polish soil is a tombstone of certain David ben Sar Shalom found in Wrocław and dated \"25 av 4963\", that is August 4, 1203.\n\nFrom the various sources it is evident that at this time the Jews enjoyed undisturbed peace and prosperity in the many principalities into which the country was then divided. In the interests of commerce the reigning princes extended protection and special privileges to the Jewish settlers. With the descent of the Mongols on Polish territory (1241) the Jews in common with the other inhabitants suffered severely. Kraków was pillaged and burned, other towns were devastated, and hundreds of Poles, including many Jews, were carried into captivity. As the tide of invasion receded the Jews returned to their old homes and occupations. They formed the middle class in a country where the general population consisted of landlords (developing into szlachta, the unique Polish nobility) and peasants, and they were instrumental in promoting the commercial interests of the land. Money-lending and the farming of the different government revenues, such as those from the salt mines, the customs, etc., were their most important pursuits. The native population had not yet become permeated with the religious intolerance of western Europe, and lived at peace with the Jews.\n\nThe tolerant situation was gradually altered by the Roman Catholic Church on the one hand, and by the neighboring German states on the other. The emissaries of the Roman pontiffs came to Poland in pursuance of a fixed policy; and in their endeavors to strengthen the influence of the Catholic Church they spread teachings imbued with intolerance toward the followers of Judaism. At the same time Boleslaus V of Poland (1228–1279), encouraged the influx of German colonists. He granted to them the Magdeburg Rights, and by establishing them in the towns introduced there an element which brought with it deep-seated prejudices against the Jews.\n\nThere were, however, among the reigning princes some determined protectors of the Jewish inhabitants, who considered the presence of the latter most desirable in so far as the economic development of the country was concerned. Prominent among such rulers was Bolesław the Pious, of Kalisz, Prince of Great Poland. With the consent of the class representatives and higher officials, in 1264 he issued a General Charter of Jewish Liberties, the Statute of Kalisz, which clearly defined the position of his Jewish subjects. The charter dealt in detail with all sides of Jewish life, particularly the relations of the Jews to their Christian neighbors. The guiding principle in all its provisions was justice, while national, racial, and religious motives were entirely excluded. It granted all Jews the freedom of worship, trade and travel. Also, all Jews under the suzerainty of the duke were protected by the Voivode and killing a Jew was penalized with death and the confiscation of all the property of the murderer's family.\n\nBut while the secular authorities endeavored to regulate the relations of the Jews to the country at large in accordance with its economic needs, the clergy, inspired by the attempts of the Roman Catholic Church to establish its universal supremacy, used its influence toward separating the Jews from the body politic, aiming to exclude them, as people dangerous to the Church, from Christian society, and to place them in the position of a despised \"sect\". In 1266 an ecumenical council was held at Wrocław under the chairmanship of the papal nuncio Guido. The council introduced into the ecclesiastical statutes of Poland a number of paragraphs directed against the Jews.\n\nThe Jews were ordered to dispose as quickly as possible of real estate owned by them in the Christian quarters; they were not to appear on the streets during Church processions; they were allowed to have only a single synagogue in any one town; and they were required to wear a special cap to distinguish them from the Christians. The latter were forbidden, under penalty of excommunication, to invite Jews to feasts or other entertainments, and were forbidden also to buy meat or other provisions from Jews, for fear of being poisoned. The council furthermore confirmed the regulations under which Jews were not allowed to keep Christian servants, to lease taxes or customs duties, or to hold any public office. At the Council of Ofen held in 1279 the wearing of a red badge was prescribed for the Jews, and the foregoing provisions were reaffirmed.\n\nThough the Catholic clergy continued to spread the religious hatred, the contemporary rulers were not inclined to accept the edicts of the Church, and the Jews of Poland were for a long time allowed their rights. Władysław I the Elbow-high, who ascended the Polish throne in 1320, endeavored to establish a uniform legal code throughout the land. With the general laws he assured the Jews safety and freedom and placed them on equality with the Christians. They dressed like the Christians, wearing garments similar to those of the nobility, and, like the latter, also wore gold chains and carried swords. The king likewise framed laws for the lending of money to Christians.\n\nIn 1334, Casimir III the Great (1303–1370) amplified and expanded Boleslaw's old charter with the Wislicki Statute. Casimir was especially friendly to the Jews, and his reign is regarded as an era of great prosperity for Polish Jewry. His improved charter was even more favorable to the Jews than was Boleslaw's, insofar as it safeguarded some of their civil rights in addition to their commercial privileges. This far-sighted ruler sought to employ the town and rural populations as checks upon the growing power of the aristocracy. He regarded the Jews not simply as an association of money-lenders, but as a part of the nation, into which they were to be incorporated for the formation of a homogeneous body politic. For his attempts to uplift the masses, including the Jews, Casimir was surnamed by his contemporaries \"King of the serfs and Jews.\"\n\nNevertheless, while for the greater part of Casimir's reign the Jews of Poland enjoyed tranquility, toward its close they were subjected to persecution on account of the Black Death. Massacres occurred at Kalisz, Kraków, Głogów, and other Polish cities along the German frontier, and it is estimated that 10,000 Jews were killed. Compared with the pitiless destruction of their coreligionists in Western Europe, however, the Polish Jews did not fare badly; and the Jewish masses of Germany fled to the more hospitable lands of Poland, where the interests of the laity still remained more powerful than those of the Church.\n\nBut under Casimir's successor, Louis I of Hungary (1370–1384), the complaint became general that \"justice had disappeared from the land\". An attempt was made to deprive the Jews of the protection of the laws. Guided mainly by religious motives, Louis I persecuted them, and threatened to expel those who refused to accept Christianity. His short reign did not suffice, however, to undo the beneficent work of his predecessor; and it was not until the long reign of the Lithuanian Grand Duke and King of Poland Wladislaus II (1386–1434), that the influence of the Church in civil and national affairs increased, and the civic condition of the Jews gradually became less favorable. Nevertheless, at the beginning of Wladislaus' reign the Jews still enjoyed extensive protection of the laws.\n\nAs a result of the marriage of Władysław II Jagiełło to Jadwiga, daughter of Louis I of Hungary, Lithuania was united with the kingdom of Poland. Under his rule the first extensive persecutions of the Jews in Poland were commenced, and the king did not act to stop these events. It was said that the Jews of Poznań had induced a poor Christian woman to steal from the Dominican order \"three hosts\", which they \"desecrated\", and that when the hosts began to bleed, the Jews had thrown them into a ditch, whereupon various \"miracles\" occurred. When informed of this supposed \"desecration\", the Bishop of Poznań ordered the Jews to answer the charges. The woman accused the rabbi of Poznań of stealing the hosts, and thirteen elders of the Jewish community fell victim to the superstitious rage of the people. After long-continued torture on the rack they were all burned at the stake. In addition, a permanent fine was imposed on the Jews of Poznań, which they were required to pay annually to the Dominicans. This fine was rigorously collected until the 18th century. The persecution of the Jews was due not only to religious motives, but also to economic reasons, for the Jews had gained control of certain branches of commerce, and the burghers, jealous of their success, desired to rid themselves in one way or another of their objectionable competitors.\n\nThe same motives were responsible for the riot of Kraków, instigated by the fanatical priest Budek in 1407. The first outbreak was suppressed by the city magistrates; but it was renewed a few hours later. A vast amount of property was destroyed; many Jews were killed; and their children were baptized. In order to save their lives a number of Jews accepted Christianity. The reform movement of the Czech Hussites intensified religious fanaticism; and the resulting reactionary measures spread to Poland. The influential Polish archbishop Nicholas Tronba, after his return from the Council of Kalisz (1420), over which he had presided, induced the Polish clergy to confirm all the anti-Jewish legislation adopted at the councils of Wrocław and Ofen, and which until then had been rarely carried out. In addition to their previous disabilities, the Jews were now compelled to pay a tax for the benefit of the churches in the precincts in which they were residing, but \"in which only Christians should reside.\"\n\nIn 1423 King Wladislaus II issued an edict forbidding the Jews to lend money on notes. In his reign, as in the reign of his successor, Vladislaus III, the ancient privileges of the Jews were almost forgotten. The Jews vainly appealed to Wladislaus II for the confirmation of their old charters. The clergy successfully opposed the renewal of these privileges on the ground that they were contrary to the canonical regulations. To achieve this, the rumor was even spread that the charter claimed to have been granted to the Jews by Casimir III was a forgery, as a Catholic ruler would never have granted full civil rights to \"unbelievers.\"\n\nThe machinations of the clergy were checked by Casimir IV the Jagiellonian (1447–1492). He readily renewed the charter granted to the Jews by Casimir the Great, the original of which had been destroyed in the fire that devastated Poznań in 1447. To a Jewish deputation from the communities of Poznań, Kalisz, Sieradz, Łęczyca, Brest, and Wladislavov which applied to him for the renewal of the charter, he said in his new grant: \"We desire that the Jews, whom we protect especially for the sake of our own interests and those of the royal treasury, shall feel contented during our prosperous reign.\" In confirming all previous rights and privileges of the Jews: the freedom of residence and trade; judicial and communal autonomy; the inviolability of person and property; and protection against arbitrary accusation and attacks; the charter of Casimir IV was a determined protest against the canonical laws, which had been recently renewed for Poland by the Council of Kalisz, and for the entire Catholic world by the Diet of Basel. The charter, moreover, permitted more interaction between Jews and Christians, and freed the former from the jurisdiction of the clerical courts. Strong opposition was created by the King's liberal attitude toward the Jews, and was voiced by the leaders of the clerical party.\n\nThe repeated appeals of the clergy, and the defeat of the Polish troops by the Teutonic Knights, which the clergy openly ascribed to the \"wrath of God\" at Casimir's neglect of the interests of the Church, and his friendly attitude toward the Jews, finally induced the King to accede to the demands which had been made. In 1454 the Statutes of Nieszawa was issued, which granted many privileges to szlachta and included the abolition of the ancient privileges of the Jews \"as contrary to divine right and the law of the land.\" The triumph of the clerical forces was soon felt by the Jewish inhabitants. The populace was encouraged to attack them in many Polish cities; the Jews of Kraków were again the greatest sufferers. In the spring of 1464 the Jewish quarters of the city were devastated by a mob composed of monks, students, peasants, and the minor nobles, who were then organizing a new crusade against the Turks. More than thirty Jews were killed, and many houses were destroyed. Similar disorders occurred in Poznań and elsewhere, notwithstanding the fact that Casimir had fined the Kraków magistrates for having failed to take stringent measures for the suppression of the previous riots.\n\nThe policy of the government toward the Jews of Poland was not more tolerant under Casimir's sons and successors, John I Albert (1492–1501) and Alexander the Jagiellonian (1501–1506). John I Albert frequently found himself obliged to judge local disputes between Jewish and Christian merchants. Thus in 1493 he adjusted the conflicting claims of the Jewish merchants and the burghers of Lwów concerning the right to trade freely within the city. On the whole, however, he was not friendly to the Jews. The same may be said of Alexander the Jagiellonian, who had expelled the Jews from Grand Duchy of Lithuania in 1495. To some extent he was undoubtedly influenced in this measure by the expulsion of the Jews from Spain (1492) (the Alhambra decree), which was responsible also for the increased persecution of the Jews in Austria, Bohemia, and Germany, and thus stimulated the Jewish emigration to comparatively much more tolerant Poland. For various reasons Alexander permitted the return of the Jews in 1503, and during the period immediately preceding the Reformation the number of Jews in Poland grew rapidly on account of the anti-Jewish agitation in Germany. Indeed, Poland became the recognized haven of refuge for exiles from western Europe; and the resulting accession to the ranks of the Polish Jewry made it the cultural and spiritual center of the Jewish people. This, as has been suggested by the Jewish historian Dubnow, was rendered possible by the following conditions:\n\nThe Jews of Poland found themselves obliged to make increased efforts to strengthen their social and economic position, and to win the favor of the king and of the nobility. The conflicts of the different parties, of the merchants, the clergy, the lesser and the higher nobility, enabled the Jews to hold their own. The opposition of the Christian merchants and of the clergy was counterbalanced by the support of the nobility (szlachta), who derived certain economic benefits from the activities of the Jews. By the nihil novi constitution of 1505, sanctioned by Alexander the Jagiellonian, the Szlachta Diets were given a voice in all important national matters. On some occasions the Jewish merchants, when pressed by the lesser nobles, were afforded protection by the king, since they were an important source of royal revenue.\n\nThe most prosperous period in the life of the Polish Jews began with the reign of Sigismund I (1506–1548). In 1507 the king informed the authorities of Lwów that until further notice its Jewish citizens, in view of losses sustained by them, were to be left undisturbed in the possession of all their ancient privileges (\"Russko-Yevreiski Arkhiv,\" iii.79). His generous treatment of his physician, Jacob Isaac, whom he made a member of the nobility in 1507, testifies to his liberal views.\n\nBut while Sigismund himself was prompted by feelings of justice, his courtiers endeavored to turn to their personal advantage the conflicting interests of the different classes. Sigismund's second wife, Italian born Queen Bona, sold government positions for money; and her favorite, the Voivode (district governor) of Kraków, Piotr Kmita, accepted bribes from both sides, promising to further the interests of each at the Sejm (Polish parliament) and with the king. In 1530 the Jewish question was the subject of heated discussions at the Sejm. There were some delegates who insisted on the just treatment of the Jews. On the other hand, some went so far as to demand the expulsion of the Jews from the country, while still others wished to curtail their commercial rights. The Sejm of 1538 in Piotrków Trybunalski elaborated a series of repressive measures against the Jews, who were prohibited from engaging in the collection of taxes and from leasing estates or government revenues, \"it being against God's law that these people should hold honored positions among the Christians.\" The commercial pursuits of the Jews in the cities were placed under the control of the hostile magistrates, while in the villages Jews were forbidden to trade at all. The Sejm also revived the medieval ecclesiastical law compelling the Jews to wear a distinctive badge.\n\nSigismund II Augustus (1548–1572) followed in the main the tolerant policy of his father. He confirmed the ancient privileges of the Polish Jews, and considerably widened and strengthened the autonomy of their communities. By a decree of August 13, 1551, the Jews of Great Poland were again granted permission to elect a chief rabbi, who was to act as judge in all matters concerning their religious life. Jews refusing to acknowledge his authority were to be subject to a fine or to excommunication; and those refusing to yield to the latter might be executed after a report of the circumstances had been made to the authorities. The property of the recalcitrants was to be confiscated and turned in to the crown treasury. The chief rabbi was exempted from the authority of the voivode and other officials, while the latter were obliged to assist him in enforcing the law among the Jews.\n\nThe favorable attitude of the King and of the enlightened nobility could not prevent the growing animosity against the Jews in certain parts of the kingdom. The Reformation movement stimulated an anti-Jewish crusade by the Catholic clergy, who preached vehemently against all \"heretics\": Lutherans, Calvinists, and Jews. In 1550 the papal nuncio Alois Lipomano, who had been prominent as a persecutor of the Neo-Christians in Portugal, was delegated to Kraków to strengthen the Catholic spirit among the Polish nobility. He warned the King of the evils resulting from his tolerant attitude toward the various non-believers in the country. Seeing that the Polish nobles, among whom the Reformation had already taken strong root, paid but scant courtesy to his preachings, he initiated a blood libel in the town of Sochaczew. Sigismund pointed out that papal bulls had repeatedly asserted that all such accusations were without any foundation whatsoever; and he decreed that henceforth any Jew accused of having committed a murder for ritual purposes, or of having stolen a host, should be brought before his own court during the sessions of the Sejm. Sigismund II Augustus also granted autonomy to the Jews in the matter of communal administration and laid the foundation for the power of the \"Kahal\".\n\nIn 1569 Union of Lublin Lithuania strengthened its ties with Poland, as the previous personal union was peacefully transformed into a unique federation of Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth. The death of Sigismund Augustus (1572) and thus the termination of the Jagiellon dynasty necessitated the election of his successor by the elective body of all the nobility (szlachta). During the interregnum szlachta has passed the Warsaw Confederation act which guaranteed unprecedented religious tolerance to all citizens of the Commonwealth. Meanwhile, the neighboring states were deeply interested in the elections, each hoping to insure the choice of its own candidate. The pope was eager to assure the election of a Catholic, lest the influences of the Reformation should become predominant in Poland. Catherine de' Medici was laboring energetically for the election of her son Henry of Anjou. But in spite of all the intrigues at the various courts, the deciding factor in the election was the influence of Solomon Ashkenazi, then in charge of the foreign affairs of Ottoman Empire. Henry of Anjou was elected, which was of deep concern to the liberal Poles and the Jews, as he was the infamous mastermind of the St. Bartholomew's Day Massacre. Therefore, Polish nobility forced him to sign the Henrician articles and pacta conventa, guarantying the religious tolerance in Poland, as a condition of acceptance of the throne (those documents would be subsequently signed by every other elected Polish king). However, Henry soon secretly fled to France after a reign in Poland of only a few months, in order to succeed his deceased brother Charles IX on the French throne.\n\nYeshivas were established, under the direction of the rabbis, in the more prominent communities. Such schools were officially known as gymnasia, and their rabbi-principals as rectors. Important yeshivots existed in Kraków, Poznań, and other cities. Jewish printing establishments came into existence in the first quarter of the 16th century. In 1530 a Hebrew Pentateuch (Torah) was printed in Kraków; and at the end of the century the Jewish printing-houses of that city and Lublin issued a large number of Jewish books, mainly of a religious character. The growth of Talmudic scholarship in Poland was coincident with the greater prosperity of the Polish Jews; and because of their communal autonomy educational development was wholly one-sided and along Talmudic lines. Exceptions are recorded, however, where Jewish youth sought secular instruction in the European universities. The learned rabbis became not merely expounders of the Law, but also spiritual advisers, teachers, judges, and legislators; and their authority compelled the communal leaders to make themselves familiar with the abstruse questions of Jewish law. Polish Jewry found its views of life shaped by the spirit of Talmudic and rabbinical literature, whose influence was felt in the home, in school, and in the synagogue.\n\nIn the first half of the 16th century the seeds of Talmudic learning had been transplanted to Poland from Bohemia, particularly from the school of Jacob Pollak, the creator of Pilpul (\"sharp reasoning\"). Shalom Shachna (c. 1500–1558), a pupil of Pollak, is counted among the pioneers of Talmudic learning in Poland. He lived and died in Lublin, where he was the head of the yeshivah which produced the rabbinical celebrities of the following century. Shachna's son Israel became rabbi of Lublin on the death of his father, and Shachna's pupil Moses Isserles (known as the \"ReMA\") (1520–1572) achieved an international reputation among the Jews as the co-author of the Shulkhan Arukh, (the \"Code of Jewish Law\"). His contemporary and correspondent Solomon Luria (1510–1573) of Lublin also enjoyed a wide reputation among his coreligionists; and the authority of both was recognized by the Jews throughout Europe. Among the famous pupils of Isserles should be mentioned David Gans and Mordecai Jaffe, the latter of whom studied also under Luria. Another distinguished rabbinical scholar of that period was Eliezer b. Elijah Ashkenazi (1512–1585) of Kraków. His \"Ma'ase ha-Shem\" (Venice, 1583) is permeated with the spirit of the moral philosophy of the Sephardic school, but is extremely mystical. At the end of the work he attempts to forecast the coming of the Jewish Messiah in 1595, basing his calculations on the Book of Daniel. Such Messianic dreams found a receptive soil in the unsettled religious conditions of the time. The new sect of Socinians or Unitarians, which denied the Trinity and which, therefore, stood near to Judaism, had among its leaders Simon Budny, the translator of the Bible into Polish, and the priest Martin Czechowic. Heated religious disputations were common, and Jewish scholars participated in them. At the same time, the Kabbalah had become entrenched under the protection of Rabbinism; and such scholars as Mordecai Jaffe and Yoel Sirkis devoted themselves to its study. The mystic speculations of the kabalists prepared the ground for Sabbatianism, and the Jewish masses were rendered even more receptive by the great disasters that over-took the Jews of Poland during the middle of the 17th century such as the Cossack Chmielnicki Uprising against Poland during 1648–1654.\n\nStephen Báthory (1576–1586) was now elected king of Poland; and he proved both a tolerant ruler and a friend of the Jews. On February 10, 1577, he sent orders to the magistrate of Pozna directing him to prevent class conflicts, and to maintain order in the city. His orders were, however, of no avail. Three months after his manifesto a riot occurred in Poznań. Political and economic events in the course of the 16th century forced the Jews to establish a more compact communal organization, and this separated them from the rest of the urban population; indeed, although with few exceptions they did not live in separate ghettos, they were nevertheless sufficiently isolated from their Christian neighbors to be regarded as strangers. They resided in the towns and cities, but had little to do with municipal administration, their own affairs being managed by the rabbis, the elders, and the dayyanim or religious judges. These conditions contributed to the strengthening of the \"Kahal\" organizations. Conflicts and disputes, however, became of frequent occurrence, and led to the convocation of periodical rabbinical congresses, which were the nucleus of the central institution known in Poland, from the middle of the 16th to the middle of the 18th century, as the Council of Four Lands.\n\nThe Catholic reaction which with the aid of the Jesuits and the Council of Trent spread throughout Europe finally reached Poland. The Jesuits and counterreformation found a powerful protector in Báthory's successor, Sigismund III Vasa (1587–1632). Under his rule the \"Golden Freedom\" of the Polish szlachta gradually became perverted; government by the \"liberum veto\" undermined the authority of the Sejm; and the stage was set for the degeneration of unique democracy and religious tolerance of the Commonwealth into anarchy and intolerance. However, the dying spirit of the republic (Rzeczpospolita) was still strong enough to check somewhat the destructive power of Jesuitism, which under an absolute monarchy, like those in Western Europe, have led to drastic anti-Jewish measures similar to those that had been taken in Spain. However, in Poland Jesuits were limited only to propaganda. Thus while the Catholic clergy was the mainstay of the anti-Jewish forces, the king, forced by the Protestant szlachta, remained at least in semblance the defender of the Jews. Still, the false accusations of ritual murder against the Jews recurred with growing frequency, and assumed an \"ominous inquisitional character.\" The papal bulls and the ancient charters of privilege proved generally of little avail as protection. Uneasy conditions persisted during the reign of Sigismund's son, Władysław IV Vasa (1632–1648).\n\nIn 1648 the Commonwealth was devastated by the several conflicts, in which the Commonwealth lost over a third of its populations (over 3 million people), and Jewish losses were counted in hundreds of thousands. First, the Chmielnicki Uprising when Bohdan Khmelnytsky's Cossacks massacred tens of thousands of Jews and Poles in the eastern and southern areas he controlled (today's Ukraine). It is recorded that Chmielncki told the people that the Poles had sold them as slaves \"into the hands of the accursed Jews\". The precise number of dead may never be known, but the decrease of the Jewish population during that period is estimated at 100,000 to 200,000, which also includes emigration, deaths from diseases and jasyr (captivity in the Ottoman Empire).\n\nThen the incompetent politics of the elected House of Vasa kings brought the weakened state to its knees, as it was invaded by the Swedish Empire in what became known as The Deluge. The kingdom of Poland proper, which had hitherto suffered but little either from the Chmielnicki Uprising or from the recurring invasion of the Russians and Ottomans, now became the scene of terrible disturbances (1655–1658). Charles X of Sweden, at the head of his victorious army, overran Poland; and soon the whole country, including the cities of Kraków and Warsaw, was in his hands. The Jews of Great and Little Poland found themselves torn between two sides: those of them who were spared by the Swedes were attacked by the Poles, who accused them of aiding the enemy. The Polish general Stefan Czarniecki, in his flight from the Swedes, devastated the whole country through which he passed and treated the Jews without mercy. The Polish partisan detachments treated the non-Polish inhabitants with equal severity. Moreover, the horrors of the war were aggravated by pestilence, and the Jews and townsfolk of the districts of Kalisz, Kraków, Poznań, Piotrków, and Lublin perished \"en masse\" by the sword of the sieging armies and the plague. Certain Jewish writers of the day were convinced that the home and protection which the Jews had for a long time enjoyed in Poland were lost to them forever.\n\nSome of these apprehensions proved to be unfounded. As soon as the disturbances had ceased, the Jews began to return and to rebuild their destroyed homes; and while it is true that the Jewish population of Poland had decreased and become impoverished, it still was more numerous than that of the Jewish colonies in Western Europe. Poland remained as the spiritual center of Judaism; and the remarkable vitality of the Jews manifested itself in the fact that in a comparatively short time they managed to recuperate from their terrible trials. King John II Casimir (1648–1668) endeavored to compensate the impoverished people for their sufferings and losses, as is evidenced by a decree granting the Jews of Kraków the rights of free trade (1661); and similar privileges, together with temporary exemption from taxes, were granted to many other Jewish communities, which had suffered most from the Russo-Swedish invasion. John Casimir's successor, King Michael Korybut Wiśniowiecki (1669–1673), also granted some privileges to the Jews. This was partly due to the efforts of Moses Markowitz, the representative of the Jewish communities of Poland. The heroic King John III Sobieski (1674–1696) was in general very favorably inclined toward the Jews; but the clergy and Catholic nobility deprecated such friendliness toward \"infidels.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2125806", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2125806", "title": "Thomas Attwood (composer)", "text": "Thomas Attwood (composer)\n\nThomas Attwood (23 November 1765 – 24 March 1838) was an English composer and organist.\n\nThe son of a musician in the royal band, Attwood was born in London, probably in Pimlico. At the age of nine he became a chorister in the Chapel Royal, where he received training in music from James Nares and Edmund Ayrton. In 1783 he was sent to study abroad at the expense of the Prince of Wales (afterwards King George IV), who had been favourably impressed by his skill at the harpsichord. After two years in Naples, Attwood proceeded to Vienna, where he became a favourite pupil of Mozart. On his return to London in 1787 he held for a short time an appointment as one of the chamber musicians to the Prince of Wales.\n\nIn 1796 he was chosen as the organist of St Paul's Cathedral, and in the same year he was made composer of the Chapel Royal. His court connection was further confirmed by his appointment as musical instructor to the Duchess of York, and afterwards to the Princess of Wales. In January 1806, he played his own composition, \"Grand Dirge\", on the organ for the funeral of Lord Nelson, the only piece specially written for the occasion. For the coronation of George IV, he composed a setting of the traditional anthem \"I was Glad\", which was also used at the coronations of King William IV and Queen Victoria. The king, who had neglected him for some years on account of his connection with the Princess of Wales, now restored him to favour, and in 1821 appointed him organist to his private chapel at Brighton. \n\nSoon after the institution of the Royal Academy of Music in 1823, Attwood was chosen to be one of the professors. He was also one of the original members of the Royal Philharmonic Society, founded in 1813. He wrote the anthem \"O Lord, Grant the King a Long Life\" for the coronation of William IV, and he was composing a similar work for the coronation of Queen Victoria when he died at his house at 75 Cheyne Walk, Chelsea, on 24 March 1838.\n\nAttwood's funeral took place at St Paul's Cathedral on 31 March 1838. He is buried in the Cathedral, in the crypt, under the organ.\n\nAttwood is now known only for a few short anthems; these include \"Teach me, O Lord\" (1797), \"O God who by the leading of a star\" (1814), \"Turn Thy face from my sins\" (1831), and \"Come, Holy Ghost\" (1834). His compositions show the influence of his teacher Mozart, but also the Georgian tradition of English church music of his early training, producing a \"union of styles\" which remained influential throughout the 19th century. Besides his ecclesiastical work, Attwood wrote music and songs for some twenty musical plays and comic operas between 1792 and 1807. He was also a prolific writer of glees, including \"A Rose-Bud by my Early Walk\" (c. 1819), a poem by Robert Burns.\n\nHe was himself the teacher of John Goss, Cipriani Potter, his godson Thomas Attwood Walmisley., and through his friendship with Mendelssohn, he greatly encouraged the young William Sterndale Bennett \n\nIn 1793, Thomas Attwood married Mary Denton, they had five sons and one daughter. The eldest son was a lieutenant in the Royal Engineers but was murdered in Seville in 1821. His second son, George Attwood, was the rector of Framlingham and his third son, a solicitor, predeceased his father in a riding accident. His fourth son was an estate manager in Jamaica and the fifth was also a clergyman.\n\nAttwood had heard Felix Mendelssohn play during a visit to London in 1829. Following a tour of Scotland and Wales, Mendelssohn returned to the capital but fell out of a carriage and suffered a leg injury; while he was recovering, he received a large hamper from Attwood and was invited to stay at the family home at Beulah Hill in Norwood as soon as he was able to travel. Mendelssohn composed a piece for harp and piano called \"The Evening Bell\", suggested by the gate bell at Attwood's house. Following a second stay at Norwood in 1832, Mendelssohn dedicated his \"Three Preludes and Fugues for the Organ\" (Op. 37) to Attwood.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2125814", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2125814", "title": "1983 in Australia", "text": "1983 in Australia\n\nThe following lists events that happened during 1983 in Australia.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2125816", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2125816", "title": "Poor Things", "text": "Poor Things\n\nPoor Things is a novel by Scottish writer Alasdair Gray, published in 1992. It won the Whitbread Novel Award in 1992 and the Guardian Fiction Prize for 1992.\n\nThe novel was called \"a magnificently brisk, funny, dirty, brainy book\" by the London Review of Books and is a departure from Gray's usual subject-matter of Glasgow realism and fantasy. However, its Victorian narrative takes in Gray's previous concerns with social inequalities, relationships, memory and identity.\n\nThe main body of the work centres on Bella Baxter, a woman whose early life and identity are the subject of some ambiguity. That ambiguity is complicated by her husband Archibald McCandless's autobiography, \"Episodes from the Early Life of a Scottish Public Health Officer,\" which distorts the truth about his life with Bella. This is followed by Bella's (or Victoria's) refutation of its facts, suggesting that her \"poor fool\" of a husband has concocted a life for her from the prevailing gothic and romantic motifs of the period: it \"positively stinks of all that was morbid in that most morbid of centuries\". This is reinforced by the novel's intricate echoes of Mary Shelley's \"Frankenstein\".\n\nThese fictitious historical documents are prefaced with an introduction by one Alasdair Gray, who presents himself as the editor of the following text, and relates the 'discovery' of the papers by his real-life friends, Michael Donnelly and Elspeth King. The introduction also hosts a critique of Glasgow City Council's treatment of its culture and heritage in the neglect of the local history museum, and a brief mention of Glasgow's time as the European Capital of Culture in 1990, which would be the subject of a more sustained satire in his novel \"Something Leather\".\n\n\"Poor Things\" contains illustrations by Alasdair Gray, which the text claims are by the Scottish etcher and illustrator William Strang. There are also punning additions of fragments of images from \"Gray's Anatomy\". One feature of the novel which has also attracted comment is the page of review quotes which also features a printed erratum strip. Some of these reviews are patently fictitious (such as those from the \"Skiberdeen Eagle\" and the \"Private Nose\") and others are attributed to real publications, but seem so harsh that their authenticity is called into question.\n\n"}
{"id": "2125817", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2125817", "title": "Indian Head Naval Surface Warfare Center", "text": "Indian Head Naval Surface Warfare Center\n\nNaval Surface Warfare Center, Indian Head Division (NSWC IHD)—also known as Naval Support Facility Indian Head—is a United States naval military installation in Charles County, Maryland, that is a NAVSEA Warfare Center (WFC) enterprise dedicated to energetics (i.e., explosives, propellants, pyrotechnics, reactive materials, and their application in propulsion systems and ordnance). NSWC IHD began as the Naval Proving Ground, Indian Head during World War I.\n\nAs a United States Department of Defense (DoD) Energetics Center, Naval Surface Warfare Center, Indian Head Division, is a critical component of the NAVSEA Warfare Center (WFC) enterprise. One of the WFC's nine divisions, Indian Head’s mission is to research, develop, test, evaluate, and produce energetics (i.e., explosives, propellants, pyrotechnics, reactive materials, related chemicals and fuels and their application in propulsion systems and ordnance) and energetic systems for U.S. fighting forces.\n\nAs the largest DoD full-spectrum energetics facility, NSWC Indian Head employs a workforce of more than 1,900, of which more than 850 are scientists, engineers, and technicians that develop and sustain explosives, propellants, pyrotechnics, high-energy chemicals, and their application to warfighting systems. In addition, NSWC Indian Head has the largest concentration of Ph.D.'s working in Energetics in the WFC, including the highest number of synthetic chemists, detonation physicists, and formulation scientists dedicated to the energetics national competency.\n\nThe Division’s unique synergy and balanced capabilities address all aspects of energetics, including basic research, applied technology, technology demonstration, prototyping, engineering development, acquisition, low-rate production, in-service engineering/mishaps and failure investigations, surveillance, and demilitarization.\n\nIf the military experience problems with current weapon systems, or encounter new threats on the battlefield, Indian Head Division collaborates and provides the appropriate solution. As the U.S. Navy’s lead technical authority in the United States, NSWC Indian Head performs over 60% of all Navy energetics workload, and has an unmatched record of 13 Navy-qualified explosives transitioned into 47 Navy, Army, Air Force, and Marine Corps weapons. Seventy-five percent of all explosives deployed in U.S. weapons were developed by NSWC Indian Head.\n\nOne of ten divisions of the NAVSEA Warfare Center Enterprise, the main site for NSWC IHD is located at Naval Support Facility Indian Head, a 3,500-acre peninsula along the Potomac River in Southern Maryland. It also maintains operations in McAlester, OK; Colts Neck, NJ; Ogden, UT; Louisville, KY, and Picatinny, New Jersey.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2125821", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2125821", "title": "Horsburgh Lighthouse", "text": "Horsburgh Lighthouse\n\nHorsburgh Lighthouse (Chinese: ; ) is an active lighthouse which marks the eastern entrance to the Straits of Singapore. It is situated on the island of Pedra Branca. Singapore's earliest lighthouse by date of completion, it is located approximately to the east of Singapore and from the Malaysian state of Johor.\n\nHorsburgh Lighthouse was named after Captain James Horsburgh (28 September 1762 – 14 May 1836), a Scottish hydrographer from the East India Company, who mapped many seaways around Singapore in the late 18th and early 19th century. He was called \"the Nautical Oracle of the World\". His charts and books allowed ships to navigate through treacherous areas of the ocean, saving many lives and property on the seas between China and India. On the wall of the Visitor's Room on the sixth floor of the lighthouse under the light room there is a panel with the following inscription:\n\nTranslated literally into English, the Latin inscription reads:\n\nThe lighthouse was built over an outcrop of rocks that for centuries was identified on maps as Pedra Branca (\"white rock\" in Portuguese). It was built by John Turnbull Thomson (1821–1884), a government surveyor. In the presence of Governor William John Butterworth and other dignitaries, the lighthouse foundation stone was laid on 24 May 1850 and the lighthouse was completed in 1851. The lighthouse is also known as Pedra Branca Lighthouse.\n\nThe sovereignty of Pedra Branca was disputed between Malaysia and Singapore until 2008. On 23 May 2008, the International Court of Justice awarded the island to Singapore.\n\n<br>\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2125822", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2125822", "title": "Alan Blumlein", "text": "Alan Blumlein\n\nAlan Dower Blumlein (29 June 1903 – 7 June 1942) was an English electronics engineer, notable for his many inventions in telecommunications, sound recording, stereophonic sound, television and radar. He received 128 patents and was considered as one of the most significant engineers and inventors of his time.\n\nHe died during World War II on 7 June 1942, aged 38, during the secret trial of an H2S airborne radar system then under development, when all on board the Halifax bomber he was flying in were killed when it crashed at Welsh Bicknor in Herefordshire.\n\nAlan Dower Blumlein was born on 29 June 1903 in Hampstead, London. His father, Semmy Blumlein, was a German-born naturalised British subject. Semmy was the son of Joseph Blumlein, a German of Jewish descent, and Philippine Hellmann, a French woman of German descent. Alan's mother, Jessie Dower, was Scottish, daughter of William Dower (born 1837) who went to South Africa for the London Missionary Society. Alan was christened as a Presbyterian; he later married in a Church of England parish church.\n\nAlan Blumlein's future career seemed to have been determined by the age of seven, when he presented his father with an invoice for repairing the doorbell, signed \"Alan Blumlein, Electrical Engineer\" (with \"paid\" scrawled in pencil). His sister claimed that he could not read proficiently until he was 12. He replied \"no, but I knew a lot of quadratic equations!\"\n\nAfter leaving Highgate School in 1921, he studied at City and Guilds College (part of Imperial College). He won a Governors' scholarship and joined the second year of the course. He graduated with a First-Class Honours BSc two years later.\n\nIn mid-1930, Blumlein met Doreen Lane, a preparatory school teacher five years his junior. After two-and-a-half years of courtship the two were married in 1933. Lane was warned by acquaintances before the wedding that, \"There was a joke amongst some of his friends, they used to call it 'Blumlein-itis' or 'First Class Mind'. It seems that he didn't want to know anyone who didn't have a first class mind.\" Recording engineer Joseph B. Kaye, known as J. B. Kaye, who was Blumlein's closest friend and best man at the wedding, thought the couple were well matched.\n\nIn 1924 Blumlein started his first job at International Western Electric, a division of the Western Electric Company. The company subsequently became International Standard Electric Corporation and then, later on, Standard Telephones and Cables (STC).\n\nDuring his time there, he measured the amplitude/frequency response of human ears, and used the results to design the first weighting networks.\n\nIn 1924 he published (with Professor Edward Mallett) the first of his only two IEE papers, on high-frequency resistance measurement. This won him the IEE's Premium award for innovation. The following year he wrote (with Norman Kipping) a series of seven articles for Wireless World.\n\nIn 1925 and 1926, Blumlein and John Percy Johns designed an improved form of loading coil which reduced loss and crosstalk in long-distance telephone lines. These were used until the end of the analogue telephony era. The same duo also invented an improved form of AC measurement bridge which became known as the \"Blumlein Bridge\" and subsequently the \"transformer ratio arm bridge\". These two inventions were the basis for Blumlein's first two patents.\n\nHis inventions while working at STC resulted in another five patents, which were not awarded until after he left the company in 1929.\n\nIn 1929 Blumlein resigned from STC and joined the Columbia Graphophone Company, where he reported directly to general manager Isaac Shoenberg.\n\nHis first project was to find a method of disc cutting that circumvented a Bell patent in the \"Western Electric moving-iron cutting head\" then used, and on which substantial royalties had to be paid. He invented the moving-coil disc cutting head, which not only got around the patent but offered greatly improved sound quality. He led a small team which developed the concept into a practical cutter. The other principal team members were Herbert Holman and Henry \"Ham\" Clark. Their work resulted in several patents.\n\nEarly in 1931, the Columbia Graphophone Company and the Gramophone Company merged and became EMI. New joint research laboratories were set up at Hayes and Blumlein was officially transferred there on 1 November the same year.\n\nDuring the early 1930s Blumlein and Herbert Holman developed a series of moving-coil microphones, which were used in EMI recording studios and by the BBC at Alexandra Palace.\n\nIn June 1937, Blumlein patented what is now known as the \"Ultra-Linear\" amplifier (US Patent 2,218,902,\ndated 5 June 1937). A deceptively simple design, the circuit provided a tap on the primary winding of the output transformer to provide feedback to the second grid, which improved the amplifier's linearity. With the tap placed at the anode end of the primary winding, the tube (valve) is effectively connected as a triode, and if the tap was at the supply end, as a pure pentode. Blumlein discovered that if the tap was placed at a distance 15–20% down from the supply end of the output transformer, the tube or valve would combine the positive features of both the triode and the pentode design.\n\nBlumlein may or may not have invented the long-tailed pair, but his name is on the first patent (1936). The long-tailed pair is a form of differential amplifier that has been popular since the days of the vacuum tube (valve). It is now more pervasive than ever, as it is particularly suitable for implementation in integrated circuit form, and almost every operational amplifier integrated circuit contains at least one.\n\nIn 1931, Blumlein invented what he called \"binaural sound\", now known as stereophonic sound. In early 1931, he and his wife were at the cinema. The sound reproduction systems of the early talkies only had a single set of speakers – the actor might be on one side of the screen, but the voice could come from the other. Blumlein declared to his wife that he had found a way to make the sound follow the actor.\n\nBlumlein explained his ideas to Isaac Shoenberg in the late summer of 1931. His earliest notes on the subject are dated 25 September 1931, and his patent had the title \"Improvements in and relating to Sound-transmission, Sound-recording and Sound-reproducing Systems\". The application was dated 14 December 1931, and was accepted on 14 June 1933 as UK patent number 394,325.\n\nThe patent covered numerous ideas in stereo, some of which are used today. Some 70 claims include:\n\n\nBlumlein's binaural experiments began in early 1933, and the first stereo discs were cut later the same year. Much of the development work on this system for cinematic use was completed by 1935. In Blumlein's short test films (most notably, \"Trains at Hayes Station\", which lasts 5 minutes 11 seconds, and, \"The Walking & Talking Film\"), his original intent of having the sound follow the actor was fully realised.\n\nIn 1934, Blumlein recorded Mozart's \"Jupiter Symphony\" conducted by Sir Thomas Beecham at Abbey Road Studios in London using his vertical-lateral technique.\n\nTelevision was developed by many individuals and companies throughout the 1920s and 1930s. Blumlein's contributions, as a member of the EMI team, started in earnest in 1933 when his boss, Isaac Shoenberg, assigned him full-time to TV research.\n\nHis ideas included:\n\nBlumlein was also largely responsible for the development of the waveform structure used in the 405-line Marconi-EMI system – developed for the UK's BBC Television Service at Alexandra Palace, the world's first scheduled \"\"high definition\"\" (240 lines or better) television service – which was later adopted as the \"CCIR System A\".\n\nBlumlein was so central to the development of the H2S airborne radar system (to aid bomb targeting), that after his death in June 1942, many believed that the project would fail. However it survived and was a factor in shortening the Second World War. Blumlein's role in the project was a closely guarded secret at the time and consequently only a brief announcement of his death was made some two years later, to avoid providing solace to Hitler.\n\nHis invention of the line type pulse modulator (ref vol 5 of MIT Radiation Laboratory series) was a major contribution to high-powered pulse radars, not just the H2S's system, and continues to be used today.\n\nBlumlein was killed in the crash of an H2S-equipped Handley Page Halifax test aircraft while making a test flight for the Telecommunications Research Establishment (TRE) on 7 June 1942. During the flight from RAF Defford, whilst at an altitude of 500 ft the Halifax developed an engine fire which rapidly grew out of control. The aircraft was seen to lose altitude, then rolled inverted and struck the ground. The crash occurred near the village of Welsh Bicknor in Herefordshire. Two of Blumlein's colleagues, Cecil Oswald Browne and Frank Blythen also died in the crash.\n\nThe Halifax was carrying a highly-secret cavity magnetron as part of the H2S test system, and the immediate recovery of the device was essential. A team led by Bernard Lovell arrived at the crash scene the same night, and took the magnetron.\n\n\"Then reports of a crash in south Wales began to come in and the rest of that night was just a nightmare. I was driven by the C-in-C of the aerodrome [Defford], a man called King, and winding through these lanes near Ross-on-Wye searching for this wreckage, and then the field with the burnt-out Halifax, and of course it was wartime, there was no time for emotions, our first duties were to search for the precious highly-secret equipment, and collect the bits-and-pieces of it.\" - Bernard Lovell. \n\nAfter the RAF investigative board completed its report on the Halifax crash on 1 July 1942, it was distributed to a restricted list of approved recipients, but not publicly divulged. In the interests of wartime secrecy, the announcement of Blumlein's death was not made for another three years. The investigative board, headed by AIB Chief Inspector Vernon Brown – who later also investigated the post-war \"Star Tiger\" and \"Star Ariel\" disappearances – and assisted by Rolls-Royce, who had made the Halifax's Merlin engines, found that the crash was caused by engine fire, attributed to the unscrewing of a tappet nut on the starboard outer engine, which had been improperly tightened by an RAF engine fitter while inspecting the engine some three hours prior to the crash.\n\nDuring the flight the loosened nut caused increasingly excessive valve clearance eventually allowing collision of the valve head with the rising piston fracturing the valve stem, which then allowed the inlet valve to drop open, resulting in the ignition by the spark plug of the pressurised fuel/air mixture within the inlet manifold and, eventually, the pumping of the ignited fuel outboard of the rocker cover and along the outside of the engine, leading to an extensive fire in the engine nacelle. Due to the fire originating in the induction system, where the supercharged fuel/air mixture was at higher pressure than atmospheric, the heart of the fire was much hotter burning and intense than would be the case in a simple fuel fire.\n\nConstantly fuelled by the broken intake, the fire burned rapidly along the wing and fuselage, eventually causing the outboard section of the starboard wing to separate from the centre section at approximately 350 feet of altitude. With the loss of a substantial part of the starboard wing, all control over level flight was lost, and the plane rolled inverted and struck the ground at approximately 150 mph.\n\nThe board found that the crew and passengers had not jumped immediately from the aircraft owing to several factors, including a loss of altitude while attempting to find an emergency field, the rapidly spreading fire, which blocked or impeded egress from the plane, and the fact that a sufficient number of parachutes were either not on board or were not being worn. Almost immediately following the crash, Prime Minister Churchill issued a directive requiring any test flights with civilians or scientific personnel to carry a sufficient number of parachutes for all individuals involved.\n\nAfter the RAF investigative board completed its report on the Halifax crash, it was ordered to be kept secret by Prime Minister Churchill, and the cause of the crash was not revealed publicly, even to the relatives of the deceased. As a result, numerous unfounded rumours of German sabotage as the cause of the crash would circulate for many years afterwards.\nAlan Blumlein had two sons, Simon Blumlein and David Blumlein.\n\nOutside his work Blumlein was a lover of music and he attempted to learn to play the piano, but gave it up. He enjoyed horse riding and occasionally went cub hunting with his father-in-law.\n\nHe was interested in many forms of engineering, including aviation, motor engineering and railway engineering. He obtained a pilot's licence and flew Tiger Moth aircraft of the London Aerodrome Club at Stag Lane Aerodrome. On one occasion, he persuaded a bus driver to allow him to drive the vehicle from Penzance to Land's End. On another he spent several hours assisting the operator of a railway signal box in his duties at Paddington Station.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2125824", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2125824", "title": "Marble Throne", "text": "Marble Throne\n\nThe Marble Throne (Persian: \"Taxt e Marmar\") is a 250-year-old royal throne in Golestan Palace, Tehran, Iran.\n\nThe throne was built from 1747 to 1751. It was designed by Mirza Baba Shirazi (Naqqash Bashi) and royal stonecutter, Mohammad Ebrahim Esfahani. It consists of 65 marble stone pieces from a mine in Yazd. The throne's supports are carved in the shape of men, women, fairies, and demons.\n\nThe Royal Balcony of the Marble Throne is said to be built during the reign of Karim Khan Zand, but Karim khan is known to have even refused the title king, and preferred to sit on a carpet rather than a throne so his ownership of the Marble throne is unlikely. It was changed several times during the Qajar period. The twin stone columns of the balcony were transferred to Tehran, by the order of Agha Mohammad Khan, from Shiraz.\n\nThe Sun Throne was probably modelled after it.\n"}
{"id": "2125826", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2125826", "title": "History of the Jews in 18th-century Poland", "text": "History of the Jews in 18th-century Poland\n\nThe 18th century for the Jews of Poland was a tumultuous period as political unrest in the Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth led to changes in the treatment and behavior of Jews living within its territory. The ascent of the Wettin dynasty to the Polish throne, as well as the government's difficulties in procuring taxes led to a waning of previous policies of religious tolerance in Poland, and the partitions of Poland during the second half of the century led to widespread violence as the government's power faltered and various regional powers and separatist movements fought for control of the territory.\n\nIn terms of religious and spiritual practice, the 18th century saw the development of Hasidic Judaism. Stemming from the teachings of the Baal Shem Tov and drawing on the traditions of Kabbalah, Hasidic Judaism emphasized emotion and religious ecstasy over the academic dogmatism that had previously come to define Orthodox Judaism in Eastern Europe. During this time period, the Jewish community of Poland would also experience the tail-end of Sabbatianism in the form of the followers of Jacob Frank, who claimed to be a successor of Sabbatai Zevi.\n\nWith the accession to the throne of the Saxon dynasty the Jews completely lost the support of the government. Although Augustus II the Strong (1697–1733), and August III Wettin (1733–1763) officially confirmed at their coronations the Jewish charters, such formal declarations were insufficient to guard the already limited rights of the Jews against the hostile elements, owing to the disorders prevailing in the kingdom. The government was anxious only to collect from the \"Kahals\" the taxes, which were constantly being made heavier despite the Jews having not yet recovered from the ruinous events of the Cossacks' uprising and the Swedish invasion. The Jews' plight was compounded by the fact that the Sejm, composed of nobility and Catholic clergy, blocked all attempts to levy taxes on nobility or clergy, thus only townsfolk and Jews were taxed.\n\nThe szlachta and the townsfolk were increasingly hostile to the Jews, as the religious tolerance that dominated the mentality of the previous generations of the Commonwealth citizens was slowly forgotten. In their intolerance, the citizens of the Commonwealth now approached the \"standards\" that dominated most of the contemporary European countries, and many Jews felt betrayed by the country they once viewed as their haven. In the larger cities, like Poznań and Kraków, quarrels between the Christian and Jewish inhabitants were common and they assumed a very violent aspect. Based originally on economic grounds, they were carried over into the religious arena; and it was evident that the seeds which the Jesuits had planted had finally borne fruit. Ecclesiastical councils displayed great hatred toward the Jews. Attacks on the latter by students, the so-called \"Schüler-Gelauf,\" became every-day occurrences in the large cities, the police regarding such scholastic riots with indifference. Lawlessness, violence, and disorder reigned supreme at that time in Poland, marking the beginning of the downfall of the kingdom. In order to protect themselves against such occurrences, the Jewish communities in many cities made annual contributions to the local Catholic schools.\n\nThe decade from the Cossacks' uprising until after the Swedish war (1648–1658) left a deep and lasting impression not only on the social life of the Polish-Lithuanian Jews, but on their spiritual life as well. The intellectual output of the Jews of Poland was reduced. The Talmudic learning which up to that period had been the common possession of the majority of the people became accessible to a limited number of students only. What religious study there was became overly formalized, some rabbis busied themselves with quibbles concerning religious laws; others wrote commentaries on different parts of the Talmud in which hair-splitting arguments were raised and discussed; and at times these arguments dealt with matters which were of no practical moment. At the same time, many miracle-workers made their appearance among the Jews of Poland, as even famous rabbis of that time devoted themselves to kabbalistic practices, this mysticism culminated in a series of false \"Messianic\" movements, and Sabbatianism was succeeded by Frankism among the Jews of Poland.\n\nIn this time of mysticism and overly formal rabbinism came the teachings of Israel ben Eliezer, known as the \"Baal Shem Tov\", or \"BeShT\", (1698–1760), which had a profound effect on the Jews of Eastern Europe and Poland in particular. His disciples taught and encouraged the new fervent brand of Orthodox Judaism based on Kabbalah known as Hasidism. One of those great disciples and teachers was Rabbi Elimelech of Lizhensk (1717–1786). Many of these disciples became Rebbes themselves with followings, as with the Gerer Hasidic dynasty which was begun by Rabbi Yitzchak Meir Alter (1798–1866). Hasidism gave a ready response to the burning desire of the common people in its simple, stimulating, and comforting faith. In contradistinction to other sectarian teaching, early Hasidism aimed not at dogmatic or ritual reform, but at a deeper psychological one. Its aim was to change not the belief, but the believer. It created a new type of religious man, a type that placed emotion above reason and rites, and religious exaltation above knowledge.\n\nThe rise of Hasidic Judaism within Poland's borders and beyond has had a great influence on the rise of Haredi Judaism all over the world, with a continuous influence that has been felt from the inception of the Hasidic movements and its dynasties by famous rebbes until the present time. The following are noteworthy:\n\n\nDisorder and anarchy reigned supreme in Poland during the second half of the 18th century, from the accession to the throne of its last king, Stanislaus II Augustus Poniatowski (1764–1795). This state of affairs was due to the haughty demeanor of the nobility toward the lower classes. The necessity for reform was recognized by the king and by many of the Commonwealth citizens; but Poland was already in the grasp of Russia, and little could be done in this direction. Jewish affairs were sadly neglected, the government seeking merely the extortion of larger taxes; thus the Sejm which met at Warsaw in 1764 for the discussion of measures of reform considered the Jews only to the extent of changing the tax system. About this time, and as a direct consequence of the disorganization of Poland, the disastrous incursions of the brigand bands known as the Haidamaka took place. The movement originated in Podolia and in that part of Ukraine which still belonged to Poland.\n\nThese and other internal disorders combined to hasten the end of Poland as a sovereign state. In 1772, in the aftermath of the Confederation of Bar, the outlying provinces were divided among the three neighboring nations, Russia, Austria, and Prussia. Russia secured a considerable part of the territory now known as Belarus; Austria obtained Galicia and a part of Podolia; while Prussia received Pomerelia and the lands lying along the lower Vistula. Jews were most numerous in the territories that fell to the lot of Austria and Russia.\n\nThe permanent council established at the instance of the Russian government (1773–1788) served as the highest administrative tribunal, and occupied itself with the elaboration of a plan that would make practicable the reorganization of Poland on a more rational basis. The progressive elements in Polish society recognized the urgency of popular education as the very first step toward reform. In 1773 the Society of Jesus in Poland was abolished by Pope Clement XIV, who thus freed Polish youth from the demoralizing influences of Jesuitism. The famous \"Komisja Edukacji Narodowej\" (\"Commission of National Education\"), first Ministry of Education in the world, was established in 1773 and founded numerous new schools and remodeled the old ones. One of the members of the commission, kanclerz Andrzej Zamoyski, along with others, demanded that the inviolability of their persons and property should be guaranteed and that religious toleration should be to a certain extent granted them; but he insisted that Jews living in the cities should be separated from the Christians, that those of them having no definite occupation should be banished from the kingdom, and that even those engaged in agriculture should not be allowed to possess land. On the other hand, some szlachta and intellectuals proposed a national system of government, of the civil and political equality of the Jews. This was the only example in modern Europe before the French Revolution of tolerance and broad-mindedness in dealing with the Jewish question. On 3 May 1791 the Great Sejm passed the second oldest constitution of the world, the Polish Constitution of 3 May. But all these reforms were too late. Through the intrigues and bribery of Catherine II of Russia the Confederation of Targowica was formed, to which belonged the adherents of the old order of things. A Russian army invaded Poland, and soon after a Prussian one followed.\n\nA second partition of Poland was made July 17, 1793, Russia taking a large part of White Russia, half of Volhynia, all of Podolia, and the part of Ukraine which had previously been retained by Poland, and Prussians taking Great Poland (Poznań).\n\nA general uprising (Kościuszko Uprising) of the citizens of the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth took place in 1794. Tadeusz Kościuszko was made its leader and dictator, and succeeded in driving the Russians out of Warsaw. Dissensions, however, arose among the Poles, and the Russians and Prussians again entered Poland in force. Kościuszko was decisively defeated at Battle of Maciejowice October 10, 1794; Alexander Suvorov entered Warsaw on November 8, and Polish resistance came to an end. The Jews took an active part in this last struggle of Poland for independence. With the permission of Kościuszko, Berek Joselewicz (1764–1809) formed a regiment of light cavalry consisting entirely of Jews. This regiment accomplished many deeds of valor on the field of battle and distinguished itself especially at the siege of Warsaw, nearly all its members perishing in the defence and eventual massacre of Praga, the fortified suburb of the capital.\n\nThe third and final partition of Poland took place in 1795. Russia acquired the whole of Lithuania and Courland; Austria, the remainder of Galicia, and Podolia, including Kraków; Prussia, the rest of Poland, including Warsaw, the capital; and with that Poland ceased to exist as an independent country. The great bulk of the Jewish population was transferred to Russia, and thus became subjects of that empire, although in the first half of the 19th century some semblance of a Polish state was preserved, greatly diminished, especially in the form of the Congress Poland (1815–1831).\n\n"}
{"id": "2125849", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2125849", "title": "History of the Jews in 19th-century Poland", "text": "History of the Jews in 19th-century Poland\n\nJewish Polish history during the 19th century:\n\nOfficial Russian policy would eventually prove to be substantially harsher to the Jews than that under independent Polish rule. The lands that had once been Poland were to remain the home of many Jews, as, in 1772, Catherine II, the tzarina of Russia, instituted the Pale of Settlement, restricting Jews to the western parts of the empire, which would eventually include much Poland although it excluded some areas in which Jews had previously lived. By the late 19th century, over four million Jews would live in the Pale.\n\nInitially, Russian policy towards the Jews of Poland was confused, alternating between harsh rules and somewhat more enlightened policies. In 1802, the Tsar established the Committee on the Improvement of the Jews in an attempt to develop a coherent approach to the Empire's new Jewish population. The Committee in 1804 suggested a number of steps that were designed to encourage Jews to assimilate, though it did not force them to do so. It proposed that Jews be allowed to attend school and even to own land, but it restricted them from entering Russia, banned them from the brewing industry, and included a number of other prohibitions. The more enlightened parts of this policy were never fully implemented, and the conditions of the Jews in the Pale gradually worsened. In the 1820s, the Cantonist Laws passed by Tsar Nicolas kept the traditional double taxation on Jews in lieu of army service, while actually requiring all Jewish communities to produce boys to serve in the military, where they were often forced to convert. Though the Jews were accorded slightly more rights with the emancipation reform of 1861, they were still restricted to the Pale of Settlement and subject to restrictions on ownership and profession. In 1881, however, the status-quo was shattered with the assassination of Tsar Alexander II, which was falsely blamed on the Jews.\n\nThe assassination prompted a large-scale wave of anti-Jewish riots, called pogroms throughout 1881–1884. In the 1881 outbreak, pogroms also occurred in Russia, in a riot in Warsaw twelve Jews were killed, many others were wounded, and women were raped while over two million rubles worth of property was destroyed. The new czar, Alexander III, blamed the Jews for the riots and issued a series of harsh restrictions on Jewish movements, but large numbers of pogroms continued until 1884, with at least tacit government approval. The pogroms proved a turning point in the history of the Jews in Poland, and throughout the world. They prompted a great flood of Jewish immigration to the United States, with almost two million Jews leaving the Pale by the late 1920s, and the pogroms set the stage for Zionism.\n\nAn even bloodier wave of pogroms broke out from 1903–1906, including the Kishinev pogrom (April 1903), the Odessa pogrom (October 1905), the Kiev pogrom (October 1905), and the Białystok pogrom (April 1906). Hundreds of Jews were killed and many more wounded.\n\nThe Jewish Enlightenment, Haskalah, began to take hold in Poland during the 19th century, stressing secular ideas and values. Champions of Haskalah, the Maskilim, pushed for assimilation and integration into Russian culture. At the same time, there was another school of Jewish thought that emphasized traditional study and a Jewish response to the ethical problems of anti-semitism and persecution, one form of which was the Musar movement. Though the Jews in the Pale were generally poorer and less educated than in other areas, they were still part of the debate over the future of Judaism in the 19th century.\n\nBy the late 19th century, Haskalah and the debates it caused created a growing number of political movements within the Jewish community itself, covering a wide range of views and vying for votes in local and regional elections. Zionism became very popular with the advent of the Poale Zion party as well as the religious Polish Mizrahi, and the increasingly popular General Zionists. Jews also took up socialism, forming General Jewish Labour Bund and the Folksists (People's Party) which supported assimilation and the rights of labor.\n\nUnsurprisingly, given the conditions under Imperial Russia, the Jews participated in a number of Polish insurrections against the Russians, including the Kosciuszko Insurrection (above), and the January Insurrection (1863) as well as the Revolutionary Movement of 1905. Jewish student Michał Landy was killed by Russians during a Polish demonstration in Warsaw, 1861. Christians weren't allowed by the police to participate in his burial.\n\n"}
{"id": "2125857", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2125857", "title": "Chandogya Upanishad", "text": "Chandogya Upanishad\n\nThe Chandogya Upanishad (Sanskrit: , IAST: \"Chāndogyopaniṣad\") is a Sanskrit text embedded in the Chandogya Brahmana of the Sama Veda of Hinduism. It is one of the oldest Upanishads. It lists as number 9 in the Muktika canon of 108 Upanishads.\n\nThe Upanishad belongs to the \"Tandya\" school of the Samaveda. Like Brhadaranyaka Upanishad, the Chandogya Upanishad is an anthology of texts that must have pre-existed as separate texts, and were edited into a larger text by one or more ancient Indian scholars. The precise chronology of Chandogya Upanishad is uncertain, and it is variously dated to have been composed by the 8th to 6th century BCE in India.\n\nIt is one of the largest Upanishadic compilations, and has eight \"Prapathakas\" (literally lectures, chapters), each with many volumes, and each volume contains many verses. The volumes are a motley collection of stories and themes. As part of the poetic and chants-focussed Samaveda, the broad unifying theme of the Upanishad is the importance of speech, language, song and chants to man's quest for knowledge and salvation, to metaphysical premises and questions, as well as to rituals.\n\nThe Chandogya Upanishad is notable for its lilting metric structure, its mention of ancient cultural elements such as musical instruments, and embedded philosophical premises that later served as foundation for Vedanta school of Hinduism. It is one of the most cited texts in later \"Bhasyas\" (reviews and commentaries) by scholars from the diverse schools of Hinduism. Adi Shankara, for example, cited Chandogya Upanishad 810 times in his \"Vedanta Sutra Bhasya\", more than any other ancient text.\n\nThe name of the Upanishad is derived from the word \"Chanda\" or \"chandas\", which means \"poetic meter, prosody\". The name implies that the nature of the text relates to the patterns of structure, stress, rhythm and intonation in language, songs and chants.\n\nThe text is sometimes known as Chandogyopanishad.\n\nChandogya Upanishad was in all likelihood composed in the earlier part of 1st millennium BCE, and is one of the oldest Upanishads. The exact century of the Upanishad composition is unknown, uncertain and contested. The chronology of early Upanishads is difficult to resolve, states Stephen Phillips, because all opinions rest on scanty evidence, an analysis of archaism, style and repetitions across texts, driven by assumptions about likely evolution of ideas, and on presumptions about which philosophy might have influenced which other Indian philosophies. Patrick Olivelle states, \"in spite of claims made by some, in reality, any dating of these documents (early Upanishads) that attempts a precision closer than a few centuries is as stable as a house of cards\".\n\nThe chronology and authorship of Chandogya Upanishad, along with Brihadaranyaka and Kaushitaki Upanishads, is further complicated because they are compiled anthologies of literature that must have existed as independent texts before they became part of these Upanishads.\n\nScholars have offered different estimates ranging from 800 BCE to 600 BCE, all preceding Buddhism. According to a 1998 review by Olivelle, Chandogya was composed by 7th or 6th century BCE, give or take a century or so. Phillips states that Chandogya was completed after Brihadaranyaka, both probably in early part of the 1st millennium BCE.\n\nThe text has eight \"Prapathakas\" (प्रपाठक, lectures, chapters), each with varying number of \"Khandas\" (खण्ड, volume). Each \"Khanda\" has varying number of verses. The first chapter includes 13 volumes each with varying number of verses, the second chapter has 24 volumes, the third chapter contains 19 volumes, the fourth is composed of 17 volumes, the fifth has 24, the sixth chapter has 16 volumes, the seventh includes 26 volumes, and the eight chapter is last with 15 volumes.\n\nThe Upanishad comprises the last eight chapters of a ten chapter Chandogya Brahmana text. The first chapter of the Brahmana is short and concerns ritual-related hymns to celebrate a marriage ceremony and the birth of a child. The second chapter of the Brahmana is short as well and its mantras are addressed to divine beings at life rituals. The last eight chapters are long, and are called the Chandogya Upanishad.\n\nA notable structural feature of Chandogya Upanishad is that it contains many nearly identical passages and stories also found in Brihadaranyaka Upanishad, but in precise meter.\n\nThe Chandogya Upanishad, like other Upanishads, was a living document. Every chapter shows evidence of insertion or interpolation at a later age, because the structure, meter, grammar, style and content is inconsistent with what precedes or follows the suspect content and section. Additionally, supplements were likely attached to various volumes in a different age.\n\nKlaus Witz structurally divides the Chandogya Upanishad into three natural groups. The first group comprises chapters I and II, which largely deal with the structure, stress and rhythmic aspects of language and its expression (speech), particularly with the syllable Om (, Aum). The second group consists of chapters III-V, with a collection of more than 20 \"Upasanas\" and \"Vidyas\" on premises about the universe, life, mind and spirituality. The third group consists of chapters VI-VIII that deal with metaphysical questions such as the nature of reality and soul.\n\n\nThe Chandogya Upanishad opens with the recommendation that \"let a man meditate on Om\". It calls the syllable Om as \"udgitha\" (उद्गीथ, song, chant), and asserts that the significance of the syllable is thus: the essence of all beings is earth, the essence of earth is water, the essence of water are the plants, the essence of plants is man, the essence of man is speech, the essence of speech is the Rig Veda, the essence of the Rig Veda is the Sama Veda, and the essence of Sama Veda is \"udgitha\".\n\n\"Rik\" (ऋच्, Ṛc) is speech, states the text, and \"Sāman\" (सामन्) is breath; they are pairs, and because they have love and desire for each other, speech and breath find themselves together and mate to produce song. The highest song is Om, asserts volume 1.1 of Chandogya Upanishad. It is the symbol of awe, of reverence, of threefold knowledge because \"Adhvaryu\" invokes it, the \"Hotr\" recites it, and \"Udgatr\" sings it.\n\nThe second volume of the first chapter continues its discussion of syllable Om (, Aum), explaining its use as a struggle between \"Devas\" (gods) and \"Asuras\" (demons) – both being races derived from one \"Prajapati\" (creator of life). Max Muller states that this struggle between deities and demons is considered allegorical by ancient scholars, as good and evil inclinations within man, respectively. The \"Prajapati\" is man in general, in this allegory. The struggle is explained as a legend, that is also found in a more complete and likely original ancient version in the Brihadaranyaka Upanishad's chapter 1.3.\n\nThe legend in section 1.2 of Chandogya Upanishad states that gods took the \"Udgitha\" (song of Om) unto themselves, thinking, \"with this [song] we shall overcome the demons\". The gods revered the Udgitha as sense of smell, but the demons cursed it and ever since one smells both good-smelling and bad-smelling, because it is afflicted with good and evil. The deities thereafter revered the Udgitha as speech, but the demons afflicted it and ever since one speaks both truth and untruth, because speech has been struck with good and evil. The deities next revered the Udgitha as sense of sight (eye), but the demons struck it and ever since one sees both what is harmonious, sightly and what is chaotic, unsightly, because sight is afflicted with good and evil. The gods then revered the Udgitha as sense of hearing (ear), but the demons afflicted it and ever since one hears both what is worth hearing and what is not worth hearing, because hearing is afflicted with good and evil. The gods thereafter revered the Udgitha as \"Manas\" (mind), but the demons afflicted it and therefore one imagines both what is worth imagining and what is not worth imagining, because mind is afflicted with good and evil. Then the gods revered the Udgitha as \"Prāṇa\" (vital breath, breath in the mouth, life-principle), and the demons struck it but they fell into pieces. Life-principle is free from evil, it is inherently good. The deities inside man – the body organs and senses of man are great, but they all revere the life-principle because it is the essence and the lord of all of them. Om is the Udgitha, the symbol of life-principle in man.\n\n\nThe Chandogya Upanishad, in eighth and ninth volumes of the first chapter describes the debate between three men proficient in \"Udgitha\", about the origins and support of \"Udgitha\" and all of empirical existence. The debaters summarize their discussion as,\n\nMax Muller notes that the term \"space\" above, was later asserted in the Vedanta Sutra verse 1.1.22 to be a symbolism for the Vedic concept of Brahman. Paul Deussen explains the term \"Brahman\" means the \"creative principle which lies realized in the whole world\".\n\n\nThe tenth through twelfth volumes of the first Prapathaka of Chandogya Upanishad describe a legend about priests and it criticizes how they go about reciting verses and singing hymns without any idea what they mean or the divine principle they signify. The 12th volume in particular ridicules the egotistical aims of priests through a satire, that is often referred to as \"the Udgitha of the dogs\".\n\nThe verses 1.12.1 through 1.12.5 describe a convoy of dogs who appear before \"Vaka Dalbhya\" (literally, sage who murmurs and hums), who was busy in a quiet place repeating Veda. The dogs ask, \"Sir, sing and get us food, we are hungry\". The Vedic reciter watches in silence, then the head dog says to other dogs, \"come back tomorrow\". Next day, the dogs come back, each dog holding the tail of the preceding dog in his mouth, just like priests do holding the gown of preceding priest when they walk in procession. After the dogs settled down, they together began to say, \"Him\" and then sang, \"Om, let us eat! Om, let us drink! Lord of food, bring hither food, bring it!, Om!\".\n\nSuch satire is not unusual in Indian literature and scriptures, and similar emphasis for understanding over superficial recitations is found in other ancient texts, such as chapter 7.103 of the Rig Veda. John Oman, in his review of the satire in section 1.12 of the Chandogya Upanishad, states, \"More than once we have the statement that ritual doings only provide merit in the other world for a time, whereas the right knowledge rids of all questions of merit and secures enduring bliss\".\n\n\nThe 13th volume of the first chapter lists mystical meanings in the structure and sounds of a chant. The text asserts that \"hāu\", \"hāi\", \"ī\", \"atha\", \"iha\", \"ū\", \"e\", \"hiṅ\" among others correspond to empirical and divine world, such as moon, wind, sun, oneself, Agni, \"Prajapati\", and so on. The thirteen syllables listed are \"Stobhaksharas\", sounds used in musical recitation of hymns, chants and songs. This volume is one of many sections that does not fit with the preceding text or text that follows.\n\nThe fourth verse of the 13th volume uses the word \"Upanishad\", which Max Muller translates as \"secret doctrine\", and Patrick Olivelle translates as \"hidden connections\".\n\nThe first volume of the second chapter states that the reverence for entire \"Sāman\" (साम्न, chant) is \"sādhu\" (साधु, good), for three reasons. These reasons invoke three different contextual meanings of \"Saman\", namely abundance of goodness or valuable (सामन), friendliness or respect (सम्मान), property goods or wealth (सामन्, also समान). The Chandogya Upanishad states that the reverse is true too, that people call it \"a-sāman\" when there is deficiency or worthlessness (ethics), unkindness or disrespect (human relationships), and lack of wealth (means of life, prosperity).\n\nVolumes 2 through 7 of the second Prapathaka present analogies between various elements of the universe and elements of a chant. The latter include \"Hinkāra\" (हिङ्कार, preliminary vocalizing), \"Prastāva\" (प्रस्ताव, propose, prelude, introduction), \"Udgītha\" (उद्गीत, sing, chant), \"Pratihāra\" (प्रतिहार, response, closing) and \"Nidhana\" (निधन, finale, conclusion). The sets of mapped analogies present interrelationships and include cosmic bodies, natural phenomena, hydrology, seasons, living creatures and human physiology. For example, chapter 2.3 of the Upanishad states,\n\nThe eighth volume of the second chapter expand the five-fold chant structure to seven-fold chant structure, wherein \"Ādi\" and \"Upadrava\" are the new elements of the chant. The day and daily life of a human being is mapped to the seven-fold structure in volumes 2.9 and 2.10 of the Upanishad. Thereafter, the text returns to five-fold chant structure in volumes 2.11 through 2.21, with the new sections explaining the chant as the natural template for cosmic phenomena, psychological behavior, human copulation, human body structure, domestic animals, divinities and others. The metaphorical theme in this volume of verses, states Paul Deussen, is that the universe is an embodiment of Brahman, that the \"chant\" (Saman) is interwoven into this entire universe and every phenomenon is a fractal manifestation of the ultimate reality.\n\nThe 22nd volume of the second chapter discusses the structure of vowels (\"svara\"), consonants (\"sparsa\") and sibilants (\"ushman\").\n\nThe Chandogya Upanishad in volume 23 of chapter 2 provides one of the earliest expositions on the broad, complex meaning of Vedic concept \"dharma\". It includes as dharma – ethical duties such as charity to those in distress (Dāna, दान), personal duties such as education and self study (svādhyāya, स्वाध्याय, brahmacharya, ब्रह्मचर्य), social rituals such as yajna (यज्ञ). The Upanishad describes the three branches of dharma as follows:\n\nThis passage has been widely cited by ancient and medieval Sanskrit scholars as the fore-runner to the \"asrama\" or age-based stages of dharmic life in Hinduism. The four \"asramas\" are: Brahmacharya (student), Grihastha (householder), Vanaprastha (retired) and Sannyasa (renunciation). Olivelle disagrees however, and states that even the explicit use of the term \"asrama\" or the mention of the \"three branches of dharma\" in section 2.23 of Chandogya Upanishad does not necessarily indicate that the \"asrama\" system was meant.\n\nPaul Deussen notes that the Chandogya Upanishad, in the above verse, is not presenting these stages as sequential, but rather as equal. Only three stages are explicitly described, Grihastha first, Vanaprastha second and then Brahmacharya third. Yet the verse also mentions the person in \"Brahmasamstha\" – a mention that has been a major topic of debate in the Vedanta sub-schools of Hinduism. The Advaita Vedanta scholars state that this implicitly mentions the Sannyasa, whose goal is to get \"knowledge, realization and thus firmly grounded in Brahman\". Other scholars point to the structure of the verse and its explicit \"three branches\" declaration. In other words, the fourth state of \"Brahmasamstha\" among men must have been known by the time this Chandogya verse was composed, but it is not certain whether a formal stage of \"Sannyasa\" life existed as a \"dharmic asrama\" at that time. Beyond chronological concerns, the verse has provided a foundation for Vedanta school's emphasis on ethics, education, simple living, social responsibility, and the ultimate goal of life as moksha through Brahman-knowledge.\n\nThe discussion of ethics and moral conduct in man's life re-appears in other chapters of Chandogya Upanishad, such as in section 3.17.\n\nThe Chandogya Upanishad presents the \"Madhu Vidya\" (honey knowledge) in first eleven volumes of the third chapter. Sun is praised as source of all light and life, and stated as worthy of meditation in a symbolic representation of Sun as \"honey\" of all Vedas. The Brahman is stated in these volume of verses to be the sun of the universe, and the 'natural sun' is a phenomenal manifestation of the Brahman, states Paul Deussen.\n\nThe simile of \"honey\" is extensively developed, with Vedas, the \"Itihasa\" and mythological stories, and the Upanishads are described as flowers. The Rig hymns, the Yajur maxims, the Sama songs, the Atharva verses and deeper, secret doctrines of Upanishads are represented as the vehicles of \"rasa\" (nectar), that is the bees. The nectar itself is described as \"essence of knowledge, strength, vigor, health, renown, splendor\". The Sun is described as the honeycomb laden with glowing light of honey. The rising and setting of the sun is likened to man's cyclic state of clarity and confusion, while the spiritual state of knowing Upanishadic insight of Brahman is described by Chandogya Upanishad as being one with Sun, a state of permanent day of perfect knowledge, the day which knows no night.\n\nGayatri mantra is the symbol of the Brahman - the essence of everything, states volume 3.12 of the Chandogya Upanishad. Gayatri as speech sings to everything and protects them, asserts the text.\n\nThe first six verses of the thirteenth volume of Chandogya's third chapter state a theory of \"Svarga\" (heaven) as human body, whose doorkeepers are eyes, ears, speech organs, mind and breath. To reach \"Svarga\", asserts the text, understand these doorkeepers. The Chandogya Upanishad then states that the ultimate heaven and highest world exists within oneself, as follows,\n\nThis premise, that the human body is the heaven world, and that Brahman (highest reality) is identical to the Atman (Soul, Self) within a human being is at the foundation of Vedanta philosophy. The volume 3.13 of verses, goes on to offer proof in verse 3.13.8 that the highest reality is inside man, by stating that body is warm and this warmth must have an underlying hidden principle manifestation of the Brahman. Max Muller states, that while this reasoning may appear weak and incomplete, but it shows that Vedic era human mind had transitioned from \"revealed testimony\" to \"evidence-driven and reasoned knowledge\". This Brahman-Atman premise is more consciously and fully developed in section 3.14 of the Chandogya Upanishad.\n\nThe Upanishad presents the Śāṇḍilya doctrine in volume 14 of chapter 3. This, states Paul Deussen, is with Satapatha Brahmana 10.6.3, perhaps the oldest passage in which the basic premises of the Vedanta philosophy are fully expressed, namely – Atman (Soul, Self inside man) exists, the Brahman is identical with Atman, God is inside man. The Chandogya Upanishad makes a series of statements in section 3.14 that have been frequently cited by later schools of Hinduism and modern studies on Indian philosophies. These are,\n\nPaul Deussen notes that the teachings in this section re-appear centuries later in the words of the 3rd century CE Neoplatonic Roman philosopher Plotinus in Enneades 5.1.2.\n\nThe universe, states the Chandogya Upanishad in section 3.15, is a treasure-chest and the refuge for man. This chest is where all wealth and everything rests states verse 3.15.1, and it is imperishable states verse 3.15.3. The best refuge for man is this universe and the Vedas, assert verses 3.15.4 through 3.15.7. Max Muller notes that this section incorporates a benediction for the birth of a son.\n\nThe section 3.17 of Chandogya Upanishad describes life as a celebration of a Soma-festival, whose \"dakshina\" (gifts, payment) is moral conduct and ethical precepts that includes non-violence, truthfulness, non-hypocrisy and charity unto others, as well as simple introspective life. This is one of the earliest statement of the Ahimsa principle as an ethical code of life, that later evolved to become the highest virtue in Hinduism.\nThe metaphor of man's life as a Soma-festival is described through steps of a yajna (fire ritual ceremony) in section 3.17. The struggles of an individual, such as hunger, thirst and events that make him unhappy, states the Upanishad, is Diksha (preparation, effort or consecration for the ceremony/festival). The prosperity of an individual, such as eating, drinking and experiencing the delights of life is \"Upasada\" (days during the ceremony/festival when some foods and certain foods are consumed as a community). When an individual lives a life of laughs, feasts and enjoys sexual intercourse, his life is akin to becoming one with \"Stuta\" and \"Sastra\" hymns of a Soma-festival (hymns that are recited and set to music), states verse 3.17.3 of the text. Death is like ablution after the ceremony.\n\nThe volumes 3.16 and 3.17 of the Chandogya Upanishad are notable for two additional assertions. One, in verse 3.16.7, the normal age of man is stated to be 116 years, split into three stages of 24, 44 and 48 year each. These verses suggest a developed state of mathematical sciences and addition by about 800-600 BCE. Secondly, verse 3.17.6 mentions \"Krishna Devakiputra\" (Sanskrit: कृष्णाय देवकीपुत्रा) as a student of sage Ghora Angirasa. This mention of \"Krishna as the son of Devaki\", has been studied by scholars as potential source of fables and Vedic lore about the major deity Krishna in the Mahabharata and other ancient literature. Scholars have also questioned whether this part of the verse is an interpolation, or just a different Krishna Devikaputra than deity Krishna, because the much later age \"Sandilya Bhakti Sutras\", a treatise on Krishna, cites later age compilations such as Narayana Upanishad and Atharvasiras 6.9, but never cites this verse of Chandogya Upanishad. Others state that the coincidence that both names, of Krishna and Devika, in the same verse cannot be dismissed easily and this Krishna may be the same as one found later, such as in the Bhagavad Gita.\n\nThe verse 3.17.6 states that Krishna Devikaputra after learning the theory of life is a Soma-festival, learnt the following Vedic hymn of refuge for an individual on his death bed,\nThe fourth chapter of the Chandogya Upanishad opens with the story of king \"Janasruti\" and \"the man with the cart\" named Raikva. The moral of the story is called, \"Samvarga\" (Sanskrit: संवर्ग, devouring, gathering, absorbing) \"Vidya\", summarized in volume 4.3 of the text. Air, asserts the Upanishad, is the \"devourer unto itself\" of divinities because it absorbs fire, sun at sunset, moon when it sets, water when it dries up. In reference to man, \"Prana\" (vital breath, life-principle) is the \"devourer unto itself\" because when one sleeps, \"Prana\" absorbs all deities inside man such as eyes, ears and mind. The \"Samvarga Vidya\" in Chandogya is found elsewhere in Vedic canon of texts, such as chapter 10.3.3 of Shatapatha Brahmana and sections 2.12 - 2.13 of Kaushitaki Upanishad. Paul Deussen states that the underlying message of \"Samvarga Vidya\" is that the cosmic phenomenon and the individual physiology are mirrors, and therefore man should know himself as identical with all cosmos and all beings.\n\nThe story is notable for its characters, charity practices, and its mention and its definitions of \"Brāhmaṇa\" and \"Ṡūdra\". King \"Janasruti\" is described as pious, extremely charitable, feeder of many destitutes, who built rest houses to serve the people in his kingdom, but one who lacked the knowledge of Brahman-Atman. \"Raikva\", is mentioned as \"the man with the cart\", very poor and of miserable plight (with sores on his skin), but he has the Brahman-Atman knowledge that is, \"his self is identical with all beings\". The rich generous king is referred to as \"Ṡūdra\", while the poor working man with the cart is called \"Brāhmaṇa\" (one who knows the Brahman knowledge). The story thus declares knowledge as superior to wealth and power. The story also declares the king as a seeker of knowledge, and eager to learn from the poorest. Paul Deussen notes that this story in the Upanishad, is strange and out of place with its riddles.\n\nThe Upanishad presents another symbolic conversational story of Satyakama, the son of Jabala, in volumes 4.4 through 4.9. Satyakama's mother reveals to the boy, in the passages of the Upanishad, that she went about in many places in her youth, and he is of uncertain parentage. The boy, eager for knowledge, goes to the sage Haridrumata Gautama, requesting the sage's permission to live in his school for Brahmacharya. The teacher asks, \"my dear child, what family do you come from?\" Satyakama replies that he is of uncertain parentage because his mother does not know who the father is. The sage declares that the boy's honesty is the mark of a \"Brāhmaṇa, true seeker of the knowledge of the Brahman\". The sage accepts him as a student in his school.\n\nThe sage sends Satyakama to tend four hundred cows, and come back when they multiply into a thousand. The symbolic legend then presents conversation of Satyakama with a bull, a fire, a swan (\"Hamsa\", हंस) and a diver bird (\"Madgu\", मद्गु), which respectively are symbolism for \"Vayu\", \"Agni\", \"Āditya\" and \"Prāṇa\". Satyakama then learns from these creatures that forms of Brahman is in all cardinal directions (north, south, east, west), world-bodies (earth, atmosphere, sky and ocean), sources of light (fire, sun, moon, lightning), and in man (breath, eye, ear and mind). Satyakama returns to his teacher with a thousand cows, and humbly learns the rest of the nature of Brahman.\n\nThe story is notable for declaring that the mark of a student of Brahman is not parentage, but honesty. The story is also notable for the repeated use of the word Bhagavan to mean teacher during the Vedic era.\n\nThe volumes 4.10 through 4.15 of Chandogya Upanishad present the third conversational story through a student named \"Upakosala\". The boy Satyakama Jabala described in volumes 4.4 through 4.9 of the text, is declared to be the grown up \"Guru\" (teacher) with whom Upakosala has been studying for twelve years in his \"Brahmacharya\".\n\nUpakosala has a conversation with sacrificial fires, which inform him that Brahman is life, Brahman is joy and bliss, Brahman is infinity, and the means to Brahman is not through depressing, hard penance. The fires then enumerate the manifestations of Brahman to be everywhere in the empirically perceived world. Satyakama joins Upakosala's education and explains, in volume 4.15 of the text,\n\nThe Upanishad asserts in verses 4.15.2 and 4.15.3 that the Atman is the \"stronghold of love\", the leader of love, and that it assembles and unites all that inspires love. Those who find and realize the Atman, find and realize the Brahman, states the text.\n\nThe fifth chapter of the Chandogya Upanishad opens with the declaration,\nThe first volume of the fifth chapter of the text tells a fable and prefaces each character with the following maxims,\n\nThe fable, found in many other Principal Upanishads, describes a rivalry between eyes, ears, speech, mind. They all individually claim to be \"most excellent, most stable, most successful, most homely\". They ask their father, Prajapati, as who is the noblest and best among them. Prajapati states, \"he by whose departure, the body is worst off, is the one\". Each rivaling organ leaves for a year, and the body suffers but is not worse off. Then, \"Prana\" (breath, life-principle) prepares to leave, and all of them insist that he stay. \"Prana\", they acknowledge, empowers them all.\n\nThe section 5.2 is notable for its mention in a ritual the use of \"kañsa\" (goblet-like musical instrument) and \"chamasa\" (spoon shaped object).\n\nThe volumes 5.3 through 5.10 of Chandogya Upanishad present the \"Pancagnividya\", or the doctrine of \"five fires and two paths in after-life\". These sections are nearly identical to those found in section 14.9.1 of Sathapatha Brahmana, in section 6.2 of Brihadaranyaka Upanishad, and in chapter 1 of Kaushitaki Upanishad. Paul Deussen states that the presence of this doctrine in multiple ancient texts suggests that the idea is older than these texts, established and was important concept in the cultural fabric of the ancient times. There are differences between the versions of manuscript and across the ancient texts, particularly relating to reincarnation in different caste based on \"satisfactory conduct\" and \"stinking conduct\" in previous life, which states Deussen, may be a supplement inserted only into the Chandogya Upanishad later on.\n\nThe two paths of after-life, states the text, are \"Devayana\" – the path of the \"Devas\" (gods), and \"Pitryana\" – the path of the fathers. The path of the fathers, in after-life, is for those who live a life of rituals, sacrifices, social service and charity – these enter heaven, but stay there in proportion to their merit in their just completed life, then they return to earth to be born as rice, herbs, trees, sesame, beans, animals or human beings depending on their conduct in past life. The path of the \"Devas\", in after-life, is for those who live a life of knowledge or those who enter the forest life of Vanaprastha and pursue knowledge, faith and truthfulness – these do not return, and in their after-life join unto the Brahman.\n\nAll existence is a cycle of fire, asserts the text, and the five fires are: the cosmos as altar where the fuel is sun from which rises the moon, the cloud as altar where the fuel is air from which rises the rain, the earth as altar where the fuel is time (year) from which rises the food (crops), the man as altar where the fuel is speech from which rises the semen, and the woman as altar where the fuel is sexual organ from which rises the fetus. The baby is born in the tenth month, lives a life, and when deceased, they carry him and return him to the fire because fire is where he arose, whence he came out of.\n\nThe verse 5.10.8 of the Chandogya Upanishad is notable for two assertions. One, it adds a third way for tiny living creatures (flies, insects, worms) that neither take the \"Devayana\" nor the \"Pitryana\" path after their death. Second, the text asserts that the rebirth is the reason why the yonder-world never becomes full (world where living creatures in their after-life stay temporarily). These assertions suggest an attempt to address rationalization, curiosities and challenges to the reincarnation theory.\n\nThe Chandogya Upanishad opens volume 5.11 with five adults seeking knowledge. The adults are described as five great householders and great theologians who once came together and held a discussion as to what is our Self, and what is Brahman?\n\nThe five householders approach a sage named \"Uddalaka Aruni\", who admits his knowledge is deficient, and suggests that they all go to king \"Asvapati Kaikeya\", who knows about Atman Vaishvanara. When the knowledge seekers arrive, the king pays his due respect to them, gives them gifts, but the five ask him about \"Vaisvanara Self\".\n\nThe answer that follows is referred to as the \"doctrine of Atman Vaishvanara\", where \"Vaisvanara\" literally means \"One in the Many\". The entire doctrine is also found in other ancient Indian texts such as the Satapatha Brahmana's section 10.6.1. The common essence of the theory, as found in various ancient Indian texts, is that \"the inner fire, the soul, is universal and common in all men, whether they are friends or foe, good or bad\". The Chandogya narrative is notable for stating the idea of unity of the universe, of realization of this unity within man, and that there is unity and oneness in all beings. This idea of universal oneness of all souls, seeing others as oneself, seeing Brahman as Atman and Atman as Brahman, became a foundational premise for Vedanta theologians.\n\nThe sixth chapter of the Chandogya Upanishad contains the famous Tat Tvam Asi (\"That Thou art\") precept, one regarded by scholars as the sum-total or as one of the most important of all Upanishadic teachings. The precept is repeated nine times at the end of sections 6.8 through 6.16 of the Upanishad, as follows,\nThe \"Tat Tvam Asi\" precept emerges in a spiritual conversation between a father and son, Uddalaka Aruni and 24-year-old Śvetaketu Aruneya respectively, after the father sends his boy to school saying \"go to school Śvetaketu, as no one in our family has ever gone to school\", and the son returns after completing 12 years of school studies. The father inquires if Śvetaketu had learnt at school that by which \"we perceive what cannot be perceived, we know what cannot be known\"? Śvetaketu admits he hasn't, and asks what that is. His father, through 16 volumes of verses of Chandogya Upanishad, explains.\n\nUddalaka states in volume 1 of chapter 6 of the Upanishad, that the essence of clay, gold, copper and iron each can be understood by studying a pure lump of clay, gold, copper and iron respectively. The various objects produced from these materials do not change the essence, they change the form. Thus, to understand something, studying the essence of one is the path to understanding the numerous manifested forms.\n\nThe text in volume 2, through Uddalaka, asserts that there is disagreement between people on how the universe came into existence, whether in the beginning there was a \"Sat\" (सत्, Truth, Reality, Being) without a second, or whether there was just \"A-sat\" (असत्, Nothingness, non-Being) without a second. Uddalaka states that it is difficult to comprehend that the universe was born from nothingness, and so he asserts that there was \"one \"Sat\" only, without a second\" in the beginning. This one then sent forth heat, to grow and multiply. The heat in turn wanted to multiply, so it produced water. The water wanted to multiply, so it produced food.\n\nIn the verses of volume 3, Uddalaka asserts that life emerges through three routes: an egg, direct birth of a living being, and as life sprouting from seeds. The \"Sat\" enters these and gives them individuality, states the Upanishad. Heat, food and water nourish all living beings, regardless of the route they are born. Each of these nourishment has three constituents, asserts the Upanishad in volumes 4 through 7 of the sixth chapter. It calls it the coarse, the medium and the finest essence. These coarse becomes waste, the medium builds the body or finest essence nourishes the mind. Section 6.7 states that the mind depends on the body and proper food, breath depends on hydrating the body, while voice depends on warmth in the body, and that these cannot function without.\n\nAfter setting this foundation of premises, Uddalaka states that heat, food, water, mind, breath and voice are not what defines or leads or is at the root (essence) of every living creature, rather it is the \"Sat\" inside. This Eternal Truth is the home, the core, the root of each living being. To say that there is no root, no core is incorrect, because \"nothing is without a root cause\", assert verses 6.8.3 through 6.8.5 of the Upanishad. The Self, the Soul (Atman) is this root, it is the essence, it is at the core of all living beings. It is True, it is Real, it is the Self, and Thou Art That, Śvetaketu.\n\nThe \"Tat Tvam Asi\" phrase is called a Mahavakya.\n\nThe Chandogya Upanishad in volume 6.9, states that all souls are interconnected and one. The inmost essence of all beings is same, the whole world is One Truth, One Reality, One Soul.\n\nLiving beings are like rivers that arise in the mountains, states the Upanishad, some rivers flow to the east and some to the west, yet they end in an ocean, become the ocean itself, and realize they are not different but are same, and thus realize their Oneness. Uddalaka states in volume 6.10 of the Upanishad, that there comes a time when all human beings and all creatures know not, \"I am this one, I am that one\", but realize that they are One Truth, One Reality, and the whole world is one \"Atman\".\n\nLiving beings are like trees, asserts the Upanishad, that bleed when struck and injured, yet the tree lives on with its Soul as resplendent as before. It is this \"Atman\", that despite all the suffering inflicted on a person, makes him to stand up again, live and rejoice at life. Body dies, life doesn't.\n\nThe soul and the body are like salt and water, states the Upanishad in volume 6.13. Salt dissolves in water, it is everywhere in the water, it cannot be seen, yet it is there and exists forever no matter what one does to the water. The \"Sat\" is forever, and this \"Sat\" is the soul, the essence, it exists, it is true, asserts the text.\n\nMan's journey to self-knowledge and self-realization, states volume 6.14 of Chandogya Upanishad, is like a man who is taken from his home in \"Gandharas\", with his eyes covered, into a forest full of life-threatening dangers and delicious fruits, but no human beings. He lives in confusion, till one day he removes the eye cover. He then finds his way out of the forest, then finds knowledgeable ones for directions to \"Gandharas\". He receives the directions, and continues his journey on his own, one day arriving home and to happiness. The commentators to this section of Chandogya Upanishad explain that in this metaphor, the home is \"Sat\" (Truth, Reality, Brahman, Atman), the forest is the empirical world of existence, the \"taking away from his home\" is symbolism for man's impulsive living and his good and evil deeds in the empirical world, eye cover represent his impulsive desires, removal of eye cover and attempt to get out of the forest represent the seekings about meaning of life and introspective turn to within, the knowledgeable ones giving directions is symbolism for spiritual teachers and guides.\n\nThe seventh chapter of the Chandogya Upanishad opens as a conversation between Sanatkumara and Narada. The latter asks, \"teach me, Sir, the knowledge of Soul, because I hear that anyone who knows the Soul, is beyond suffering and sorrow\". Sanatkumara first inquires from Narada what he already has learnt so far. Narada says, he knows the Rig Veda, the Sama Veda, the Yajur Veda, the Atharva Veda, the epics and the history, the myths and the ancient stories, all rituals, grammar, etymology, astronomy, time keeping, mathematics, politics and ethics, warfare, principles of reasoning, divine lore, prayer lore, snake charming, ghosts lore and fine arts. Narada admits to Sanatkumara that none of these have led him to Self-knowledge, and he wants to know about Self and Self-knowledge.\n\nSanatkumara states that Narada, with the worldly knowledge, has so far focussed on name. Adore and revere the worldly knowledge asserts Sanatkumara in section 7.1 of the Upanishad, but meditate on all that knowledge as the name, as Brahman. Narada asks Sanatkumara to explain, and asks what is better than the worldly knowledge. In volumes 2 through 26 of the seventh chapter, the Upanishad presents, in the words of Sanatkumara, a hierarchy of progressive meditation, from outer worldly knowledge to inner worldly knowledge, from finite current knowledge to infinite Atman knowledge, as a step-wise journey to Self and infinite bliss. This hierarchy, states Paul Deussen, is strange, convoluted possibly to incorporate divergent prevailing ideas in the ancient times. Yet in its full presentation, Deussen remarks, \"it is magnificent, excellent in construction, and commands an elevated view of man's deepest nature\".\n\nIn its exposition of progressive meditation for Self-knowledge, the Chandogya Upanishad starts by referring to the outer worldly knowledges as name. Deeper than this name, is speech asserts verse 7.2.1, because speech is what communicates all outer worldly knowledge as well as what is right and what is wrong, what is true and what is false, what is good and what is bad, what is pleasant and what is unpleasant. Without speech, men can't share this knowledge, and one must adore and revere speech as manifestation of Brahman.\n\nMore elevated than Speech, asserts section 7.3 of the Upanishad, is \"Manas\" (मनस्, mind) because Mind holds both Speech and Name (outer worldly knowledges). One must adore and revere Mind as Brahman. Deeper than Mind, asserts section 7.4 of the Upanishad, is \"Sankalpa\" (सङ्कल्प, will, conviction) because when a man Wills he applies his Mind, when man applies his Mind he engages Speech and Name. One must adore and revere Will as manifestation of Brahman. Higher than Will, states section 7.5 of the Upanishad, is \"Chitta\" (चित्त, thought, consciousness) because when a man Thinks he forms his Will. One must adore and revere Thought as manifestation of Brahman. Greater than Thought, asserts section 7.6 of the Upanishad, is \"Dhyanam\" (ध्यान, meditation, reflection) because when a man Meditates he Thinks. One must adore and revere Meditation as the manifestation of Brahman. Deeper than Meditation, states section 7.7 of the Upanishad, is \"Vijñana\" (विज्ञान, knowledge, understanding) because when a man Understands he continues Meditating. One must adore and revere Understanding as the Brahman.\n\nThereafter, for a few steps, states Paul Deussen, the Upanishad asserts a hierarchy of progressive meditation that is unusual and different from the broader teachings of the Upanishads. The text states in section 7.8, that higher than Understanding is \"Bala\" (बल, strength, vigor) because a Strong man physically prevails over the men with Understanding. \"By strength does the world stand\", states verse 7.8.1 of Chandogya Upanishad. One must adore and revere Strength as the manifestation of Brahman. Higher than Strength, states section 7.9 of the Upanishad, is \"Anna\" (अन्नं, food, nourishment) because with proper Food, man becomes Strong. One must adore and revere Food as manifestation of Brahman. Greater than Food, states section 7.10 of the Upanishad, is \"Āpah\" (आप, water) because without Water one cannot grow Food, famines strike and living creatures perish. One must adore and revere Water as the Brahman. Higher than Water, asserts section 7.11 of the Upanishad, is \"Tejas\" (तेजस्, heat, fire) because it is Heat combined with Wind and Atmosphere that bring Rain Water. One must adore and revere Heat as the manifestation of Brahman. Higher than Heat, states section 7.12 of the Upanishad, is \"Ākāsa\" (आकाश, space, ether) because it is Space where the sun, moon, stars and Heat reside. One must adore and revere the Space as the Brahman.\n\nThe Upanishad thereafter makes an abrupt transition back to inner world of man. The text states in section 7.13, that deeper than Space is \"Smara\" (स्मरो, memory) because without memory universe to man would be as if it didn't exist. One must adore and revere Memory as the manifestation of Brahman, states the text. Deeper than Memory is \"Asha\" (आशा, hope), states section 7.14 of the Upanishad, because kindled by Hope the Memory learns and man acts. One must adore and revere Hope as the Brahman. Still deeper than Hope is \"Prāna\" (प्राणो, vital breath, life-principle), because life-principle is the hub of all that defines a man, and not his body. That is why, asserts the text, people cremate a dead body and respect a living person with the same body. The one who knows life-principle, states the Upanishad, becomes \"Ativadin\" (speaker with inner confidence, speaker of excellence).\n\nThe Chandogya Upanishad, in sections 7.16 through 7.26 presents a series of connected statements, as follows\nTo one who sees, perceives and understands Self (Soul) as Truth, asserts the Upanishad in section 7.26, the life-principle springs from the Self, hope springs from the Self, memory springs from the Self, as does mind, thought, understanding, reflection, conviction, speech, and all outer worldly knowledges.\n\nThe eight chapter of the Chandogya Upanishad opens by declaring the body one is born with as the \"city of Brahman\", and in it is a palace that is special because the entire universe is contained within it. Whatever has been, whatever will be, whatever is, and whatever is not, is all inside that palace asserts the text, and the resident of the palace is the Brahman, as Atman – the Self, the Soul. Those who do not discover that Self within themselves are unfree, states the text, those who do discover that Self-knowledge gain the ultimate freedom in all the worlds. The Upanishad describes the potential of self-knowledge with the parable of hidden treasure, as follows,\n\nMan has many desires of food and drink and song and music and friends and objects, and fulfillment of those desires make him happy states the Chandogya Upanishad in sections 8.2 and 8.3; but those desires are fleeting, and so is the happiness that their fulfillment provides because both are superficial and veiled in untruth. Man impulsively becomes a servant of his unfulfilled superficial desires, instead of reflecting on his true desires. Serenity comes from knowing his true desire for Self, realizing the Soul inside oneself, asserts the text.\n\nTheosophist Charles Johnston calls this section to be a \"Law of Correspondence\", where the macrocosm of the universe is presented as microcosm within man, that all that is infinite and divine is within man, that man is the temple and God dwells inside him.\n\nThe Upanishad in section 8.5 and 8.6 states that the life of student (\"Brahmacharin\", see Brahmacharya) guided by a teacher is the means to knowledge, and the process of meditation and search the means of realizing Atman. The verse 8.5.1 asserts that such life of a student is same as the yajna (fire ritual), the \"istam\" (oblations offered during the fire ritual), the \"sattrayanam\" (community fire ritual festival), the \"maunam\" (ritual of ascetic silence), the \"anasakayanam\" (fasting ritual), and the \"aranyayanam\" (a hermit life of solitude in the forest). The section thus states all external forms of rituals are equivalently achievable internally when someone becomes a student of sacred knowledge and seeks to know the Brahman-Atman.\n\nThe section is notable for the mention of \"hermit's life in the forest\" cultural practice, in verse 8.5.3.\n\nThe sections 8.7 through 8.12 of the Chandogya Upanishad return to the question, \"what is true Self, and what is not\"? The opening passage declares Self as the one that is eternally free of grief, suffering and death; it is happy, serene being that desires, feels and thinks what it ought to. Thereafter, the text structures its analysis of true and false Atman as four answers. The three Self, which are false Self, asserts the text are the material body, corporeal self in dreams, individual self in deep sleep, while the fourth is the true Self – the self in beyond deep sleep state that is one with others and the entire universe.\n\nThis theory is also known as the \"four states of consciousness\", explained as the awake state, dream-filled sleep state, deep sleep state, and beyond deep sleep state.\n\nWith the knowledge of the Brahman, asserts the text, one goes from darkness to perceiving a spectrum of colors and shakes off evil. This knowledge of Self is immortal, and the one who knows his own self joins the glory of the Brahman-knowers, the glory of \"Rajas\" (kings) and the glory of the people. The one who knows his soul, continues to study the Vedas and concentrates on his soul, who is harmless towards all living beings, who thus lives all his life, reaches the Brahma-world and does not return, states Chandogya Upanishad in its closing chapter.\n\nSeveral major \"Bhasyas\" (reviews, commentaries) on Chandogya Upanishad have been written by Sanskrit scholars of ancient and medieval India. These include those by Adi Shankara, Madhvacharya, Dramidacharya, Brahmanandi Tankacharya, and Ramanuja.\n\nMax Muller has translated, commented and compared Chandogya Upanishad with ancient texts outside India. For example, the initial chapters of the Upanishad is full of an unusual and fanciful etymology section, but Muller notes that this literary stage and similar etymological fancy is found in scriptures associated with Moses and his people in their Exodus across the Red Sea, as well as in Christian literature related to Saint Augustine of 5th century CE.\n\nKlaus Witz in his review of the Chandogya Upanishad states, \"the opulence of its chapters is difficult to communicate: the most diverse aspects of the universe, life, mind and experience are developed into inner paths. (...) Chapters VI-VII consist of \"vidyas\" of great depth and profundity\".\n\nJohn Arapura states, \"The Chandogya Upanishad sets forth a profound philosophy of language as chant, in a way that expresses the centrality of the Self and its non-duality\".\n\nThe philosopher Arthur Schopenhauer admired and often quoted from Chandogya Upanishad, particularly the phrase \"Tat tvam asi\", which he would render in German as \"Dies bist du\", and equates in English to “This art thou.” One important teaching of Chandogya Upanishad, according to Schopenhauer is that compassion sees past individuation, comprehending that each individual is merely a manifestation of the one will; you are the world as a whole. Each and every living creature is understood, in this Chandogya Upanishad-inspired fundamental doctrine of Hinduism, to be a manifestation of the same underlying nature, where there is a deep sense of interconnected oneness in every person and every creature, and that singular nature renders each individual being identical to every other.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nResources\n"}
{"id": "2125859", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2125859", "title": "Space (novel)", "text": "Space (novel)\n\nSpace is a novel by James A. Michener published in 1982. It is a fictionalized history of the United States space program, with a particular emphasis on manned spaceflight.\n\nMichener writes in a semi-documentary style. The topics explored in the novel include naval warfare in the Pacific Ocean, air combat in the Korean War (something Michener had already explored in \"The Bridges at Toko-Ri\"), test pilot life at 'Pax River', astronaut selection and training, the role of the media in promoting the space program as a national achievement, and the development of the Gemini and Apollo spacecraft, the rise of the military-industrial complex and the evolution of NACA into NASA.\n\nThe story begins in 1944 and covers more than 30 years in the lives of four men and their families: Dieter Kolff, a German rocket engineer who worked for the Nazis; Norman Grant, a World War II hero turned U.S. Senator from a fictional mid-west state; Stanley Mott, an aeronautical engineer charged with a top-secret U.S. government mission to rescue Kolff from Peenemünde; and John Pope, a small-town boy turned Naval Aviator who becomes a test pilot and then an astronaut. Randy Claggett, a rambunctious Marine Corps aviator and astronaut, is considered by Michener to be the most important supporting character (the first two parts of the book are entitled \"Four Men\" and \"Four Women\"). The lives of the fictional characters interweave with those of historical figures, such as Wernher von Braun and Lyndon Johnson. A group of trainee astronauts are introduced to fly fictional but plausible Project Gemini and Project Apollo missions; the intensive training and jockeying for position among the astronauts forms much of the background of the middle of the novel, reminiscent of a fictional version of Tom Wolfe's \"The Right Stuff\" and the movie as well.\n\nMichener dramatizes the life experiences of these men and their families against the backdrop of the real history of the U.S. space program, depicting their experiences in post-war aviation; the space race between the United States and the Soviet Union; the development of congressional funding for the space program; the early failures in the Gemini program; and the successful moon landings in the Apollo program. In a fictional postscript to history, Michener creates a last, \"Apollo 18\" launch to further the drama of Pope, Claggett and Linley, America's first black astronaut. This is the only Apollo mission in which the lunar module lands on the far side of the Moon; in order to remain in contact with NASA after landing, while still in lunar orbit the Apollo craft must launch communication satellites that will bounce the lunar module's signals to Earth. An exceptional and unexpected burst of sunspot activity results in the death of Claggett and Linley: the two astronauts are exposed to a lethal level of radiation while out on the lunar surface during a large solar flare. After hastily returning to the Lunar Module, Linley loses consciousness and Claggett attempts an emergency ascent back towards the command module. However he also loses consciousness, and the Lunar Module crashes back onto the lunar surface. Pope, the command module pilot, returns to Earth safely. The mission profile is significantly different from that of the real-world canceled mission that would have been Apollo 18.\n\nOn the human side, various subplots run through the novel, contrasting the \"official\" heroism of NASA with the human fallibilities of the cast—the difficulties the Kolffs face in integrating into American society; Norman Grant's initial embrace of the space program and his abandonment of it as it no longer serves his political aims, while his unstable wife and their daughter fall in with a highly intelligent but cynical cult leader calling himself Leopold Strabismus, who exploits first the UFO craze and then an anti-scientific creationist agenda to increase his wealth; Randy Claggett's womanizing; the contrast between Stanley and Rachel Mott's ordered, rational existence and their troubled relationship with their sons, and John Pope's unusual yet supportive relationship with his lawyer wife Penny.\n\nPope retires from NASA and becomes a respected professor of astronomy, his wife Penny is elected to the Senate, and Mott is consulted on \"Grand Tour\" unmanned missions to the outer solar system. The novel ends with a NASA workshop on the possibility of extraterrestrial life, at which Strabismus drops the creationist/fundamentalist persona he has adopted and joins in the intellectual debate on the inevitability of life elsewhere in the Universe.\n\nThe author displays extensive knowledge about the intricacies of rocket and spacecraft systems, which he gained as a member of the Advisory Council to the National Aeronautics and Space Administration from 1979 to 1983.\n\nThe novel was adapted into a five-part, 13-hour CBS miniseries, \"James A. Michener's Space\", starring James Garner. This television series aired April 14–18, 1985 and won an Emmy Award for film sound mixing.\n"}
{"id": "2125860", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2125860", "title": "History of the Jews in 20th-century Poland", "text": "History of the Jews in 20th-century Poland\n\nFollowing the establishment of the Second Polish Republic after World War I and during the interwar period, the number of Jews in the country grew rapidly. According to the Polish national census of 1921, there were 2,845,364 Jews living in the Second Polish Republic; by late 1938 that number had grown by over 16 percent, to approximately 3,310,000, mainly through migration from Ukraine and the Soviet Russia. The average rate of permanent settlement was about 30,000 per annum. At the same time, every year around 100,000 Jews were passing through Poland in unofficial emigration overseas. Between the end of the Polish–Soviet War of 1919 and late 1938, the Jewish population of the Republic grew by nearly half a million, or over 464,000 persons. Jews preferred to live in relatively tolerant Poland rather than in the USSR, and continued to integrate, to marry into Polish Gentile families, to bring them into their community through marriage, to feel Polish and to form an important part of Polish society. Between 1933 and 1938, around 25,000 German Jews fled Nazi Germany to sanctuary in Poland.\n\nThe Jewish community in Poland suffered the most in the ensuing Holocaust. From amongst the 6 million Polish citizens who perished during the occupation of Poland in World War II, roughly half (or 3 million) were Polish Jews murdered at the Nazi extermination camps of Auschwitz, Treblinka, Majdanek, Belzec, Sobibór, and Chełmno. Others died of starvation and maltreatment in the ghettos. Occupied Poland became the largest site of the Nazi extermination program, since this was where most of the targeted victims lived. Only about 50,000–120,000 Polish Jews survived the war on native soil, including up to 230,000 in the Soviet Union. Soon after the war ended, Jewish survivors began to exit Poland in great numbers thanks to the repatriation agreement with the USSR. Poland was the only Eastern Bloc country to allow free Jewish aliyah without visas or exit permits. The exodus took place in stages. Many left simply because they did not want to live in a communist country. Others did not wish to rebuild their lives in a place where their families were murdered, and instead joined their relatives abroad.\nAs soon as the Polish independence movement took hold in 1912–1914 with the aim to put forth an armed struggle for sovereign Poland—following a century of partitions – the main freedom organization was formed, called \"Komisja Skonfederowanych Stronnictw Niepodległościowych\". It served as an interim government. Polish Jews played a significant role in it. Personalities such Herman Feldstein, Henryk Eile (future Lieutenant of the Polish Army), dr Samuel Herschthal, dr Zygmunt Leser, Henryk Orlean, Wiktor Chajes among others, worked in its various sub-commissions. On top of that, Jews made substantial financial contributions to the formation of the Polish military fund called \"Polski Skarb Wojskowy\".\n\nDuring World War I, while many other non-Polish minorities were ambivalent or neutral to the idea of a sovereign Polish state, Jews actively participated in the fight for Poland's independence between 1914 and 1918 – a significant number joining Józef Piłsudski at the famous Oleandry area in Kraków, among them Bronisław Mansperl-Chaber killed in 1915 as the First Lieutenant of Brigade I of the Polish Legions. In Lwów, chaired by Maria Loewenstein, two existing Jewish Women's Associations united as \"Ognisko Kobiet\", for the purpose of financial support and caring for the families of soldiers and their children. Representatives of the local Jewish merchant associations adopted a resolution declaring their participation in the struggle for Poland's independence and issued an appeal to the Jewish masses. Similar proclamations came from the Jewish youth organization \"Zjednoczenie\".\n\nDuring the military conflicts that engulfed Eastern Europe at the time—the Russian Civil War, Polish-Ukrainian War, and Polish-Soviet War—many pogroms were launched against the Jews by all sides. A substantial number of Jews were perceived to have supported the Bolsheviks in Russia. They came under frequent attack by all those opposed to the Bolshevik regime. Just after the end of World War I, the West became alarmed by reports about alleged massive pogroms in Poland against Jews. American pressure for government action reached the point where president Woodrow Wilson sent an official commission to investigate the issue. The commission, led by Henry Morgenthau, Sr., announced that the reports of pogroms were exaggerated, and in some cases may have even been fabricated. It identified eighty-nine major incidents in years 1918–1919, and estimated the number of victims at 200–300 Jews. Four of these were attributed to the actions of deserters and undisciplined individual soldiers; none were blamed on official government policy. Among the incidents, in Pinsk a Polish officer accused a group of Jewish communists of plotting against the Poles, shooting 35 of them. In Lviv (then Lemberg) in 1918, as the Polish army captured the city, hundreds of people were killed in the chaos, among them about 72 Jews. In Warsaw soldiers of Blue Army assaulted Jews on the streets, but they were punished by military authorities. When the Polish troops entered Vilnius in 1919, the first Lithuanian pogrom in modern city on Lithuanian Jews took place, as noted by the Timothy D. Snyder, citing Michał Pius Römer. Many other events in Poland were later found to have been exaggerated, especially by contemporary newspapers like New York Times, although serious abuses against the Jews, including pogroms, continued elsewhere, especially in the Ukraine. The result of the concern over the fate of the Jews of western Poland was a series of explicit clauses in the Paris Peace Conference protecting the rights of Jews in Poland.\n\nThe newly independent Second Polish Republic had a large Jewish minority—by the time World War II began, Poland had the largest concentration of Jews in Europe. According to the 1931 Polish Census there were 3,130,581 Polish Jews measured by the declaration of their religion. Taking into account both population increase and the emigration from Poland between 1931 and 1939, there were around 3,474,000 Jews in Poland as of September 1, 1939 (approximately 10% of the total population). Jews were primarily centered in large agglomerations: 77% lived in the cities and 23% in the villages. In 1939 there were 375,000 Jews in Warsaw, or one third of the city's population. Only New York City had more Jewish residents than Warsaw. Jewish religious groups, political parties, newspapers and theatre thrived. Most Warsaw Jews spoke Yiddish, but Polish was increasingly used by the young who have not had a problem in identifying themselves fully as Jews, Varsovians and Poles. Polish Jews were entering the mainstream of Polish society, though many thought of themselves as a separate nationality within Poland. During the school year of 1937–1938 there were 226 elementary schools and twelve high schools as well as fourteen vocational schools with either Yiddish or Hebrew as the instructional language. The YIVO (Jidiszer Wissenszaftlecher) Scientific Institute was based in Wilno before transferring to New York during the war. Jewish political parties, both the Socialist General Jewish Labour Bund (The Bund) as well as parties of the Zionist right and left wing and religious conservative movements, were represented in the \"Sejm\" (the Polish Parliament) as well as in the regional councils.\nThe Jewish cultural scene was particularly vibrant and blossomed in pre-World War II Poland. There were many Jewish publications and over 116 periodicals. Yiddish authors, most notably Isaac Bashevis Singer, went on to achieve international acclaim as classic Jewish writers, and in Singer's case, win the 1978 Nobel Prize. Other Jewish authors of the period, like Janusz Korczak, Bruno Schulz, Julian Tuwim, Jan Brzechwa (a favorite poet of Polish children) and Bolesław Leśmian were less well known internationally, but made important contributions to Polish literature. Singer Jan Kiepura was one of the most popular artist of that era and pre-war songs of Jewish composers like Henryk Wars or Jerzy Petersburski are still widely known in Poland today. In 1918 Julian Tuwim co-founded the cabaret, \"Picador,\" and worked as a writer or artistic director with many other cabarets such as \"Czarny kot\" (Black Cat 1917–1919), \"Qui pro Quo\" (1919–1932), \"Banda\" The Gang and \"Stara Banda\" The Old Gang (1932–1935) and finally \"Cyrulik Warszawski\" (Barber of Warsaw 1935–1939). Marian Hemar also wrote for some of the mentioned cabarets.\nScientist Leopold Infeld, mathematician Stanislaw Ulam or professor Adam Ulam contributed to the world of science. Others are Moses Schorr, Georges Charpak, Samuel Eilenberg, Emanuel Ringelblum just to name a few from the long list of Polish Jews who are known internationally. The term genocide was coined by Raphael Lemkin (1900–1959), a Polish-Jewish legal scholar. Leonid Hurwicz was awarded the 2007 Nobel Prize in Economics. The Main Judaic Library and the Institute of Judaic Studies were located in Warsaw, religious centers had at their disposal Talmudic Schools (Jeszybots), as well as synagogues, many of which were architecturally outstanding. Yiddish theatre also flourished; Poland had fifteen Yiddish theatres and theatrical groups. Warsaw was home to the most important Yiddish theater troupe of the time, the Vilna Troupe, which staged the first performance of \"The Dybbuk\" in 1920 at the Elyseum Theatre. Some future Israeli leaders studied at University of Warsaw—Menachem Begin and Yitzhak Shamir, among others. The influence of Polish and Jewish cultures was reciprocal. Jewish chess players such as Akiba Rubinstein were ranked among the best, and they contributed to the Polish world championship in 1930. Many Yiddish-language films were produced in Poland, including \"Yidl Mitn Fidl\" (1936), \"The Dybbuk\" (1937), \"Der Purimszpiler\" (1937), and \"Mamele\" (1938). In 1937, the Polish-Jewish community was served by 150 Yiddish-language newspapers and journals (with a combined circulation of 600,000) and a number of Polish-language newspapers (circulation 180,000).\n\nAn ever-increasing proportion of Jews in interwar Poland lived separate lives from the Polish majority. In 1921, 74.2 percent of Polish Jews listed Yiddish or Hebrew as their native language, but the number has risen to 87 percent by 1931 already, resulting in growing tensions between Jews and Poles. Jews were often not identified as Polish nationals; a problem caused not only by the reversal of assimilation shown in national censuses between 1921 and 1931, but also, by the influx of Russian Jews escaping persecution especially in Ukraine where up to 2,000 pogroms took place during the Civil War, in which an estimated 30,000 Jews were massacred directly and a total of 150,000 died. A large number of Jews immigrated to Poland from the East, as they were entitled by the Peace treaty of Riga to choose the country they preferred. Several hundred thousand refugees joined the already numerous Jewish minority of the Polish Second Republic. More than 75 per cent of them lived in the urban areas. There was, therefore, a disproportionate concentration of Jews in these communities, with higher than average number of women, children and elderly. Poland was an underdeveloped country struggling with remnants of devastating economic exploitation by the partitioners and their ensuing trade embargos (see also: German–Polish customs war). For many years, there was widespread poverty among all citizens regardless of ethnicity, but especially among the unemployed Jews – for whom the help from the American Jewish Joint Distribution Committee was slow in coming. Plans for their retraining, considered by the Committee in 1929, were out of touch with the depth of Polish depression. The average standard of living of Polish Jews was among the worst among major Jewish communities in the world. The mostly nonexistent new job opportunities before Poland's industrialization of the mid-1930s were blamed on anti-Semitism, although Jewish per capita income among the working Jews was more than 40% higher in 1929 than that of Polish non-Jews. The impoverished families relied on local Jewish charity, which had reached universally unprecedented proportions in 1929, providing services such as religion, education, health and other services to the amount of 200 million zloty a year. The effects of the Great Depression had been very severe.\n\nThe political situation of Jews in Poland was most amiable under the rule of Józef Piłsudski (1926–1935). Piłsudski replaced \"Endecja's\" 'ethnic assimilation' with the 'state assimilation' policy: citizens were judged by their loyalty to the state, not by their nationality. The years 1926–1935 were favourably viewed by many Polish Jews, whose situation improved especially under the cabinet of Pilsudski's appointee Kazimierz Bartel. However, a combination of various reasons, including the Great Depression, meant that the situation of Polish Jews was never too satisfactory, and it deteriorated again after Piłsudski's death in May 1935. Many Jews regarded his death as tragedy, since no pogroms were perpetrated during his term in office. Both Polish Jews and Polish Gentiles had nationalist movements of their own. Revisionist Zionism had a following among Polish Jews, who also experienced the revival of the Hebrew language and a growth of the idea of Aliyah. Meanwhile, the Polish nationalist Endecja movement and the National Radical Camp were also openly anti-Semitic despite being anti-Nazi. With their party influence growing, antisemitism gathered a new momentum and was most felt in smaller towns and in public arenas. In Grodno, antisemitic incidents led to the creation of a student self-defense group called Brit HaHayal (Soldier's Alliance) consisting of stronger Jewish youth. Polish high-school students, influenced by the Endeks, bullied their Jewish colleagues to stand up. The teachers were usually afraid to intervene. Jewish children often fell victim to antisemitic incidents on their way to or from school. Further academic harassment, anti-Jewish riots, and semi-official or unofficial quotas (\"Numerus clausus\") introduced in 1937 in some universities cut in half the number of Jews in Polish universities into the late 1930s. From 1935 to 1937, 79 Jews were killed and 500 injured in anti-Semitic incidents.\n\nThe Jewish community in Poland was large and vibrant internally, yet substantially poorer and less integrated than the Jews in most of Western Europe. Towards the end of the 1930s, despite the impending threat to the Polish Republic from Nazi Germany, there was little effort seen in the way of reconciliation between Polish and Jewish societies. Many Polish Christians held that there were far too many Jews in the country. Polish government began actively helping the Zionist movement with its goal of creating the state of Israel, and armed and trained Polish Jews in paramilitary groups such as Haganah, Irgun and Lehi. Antisemitism in Poland was escalating. Discrimination and violence against Jews sweeping across much of Central and Eastern Europe had rendered the Polish Jewish population increasingly destitute. In 1937 the Catholic trade unions of Polish doctors and lawyers restricted their new members to Christian Poles while many government jobs continued to be unavailable to Jews during this entire period. In July 1939 Gazeta Polska, the unofficial organ of the Polish government wrote: \"The fact that our relations with the Reich are worsening does not in the least deactivate our program in the Jewish question—there is not and cannot be any common ground between our internal Jewish problem and Poland's relations with the Hitlerite Reich.\" Escalating hostility towards Polish Jews and the official government support for Jewish Palestine led by Ze'ev Jabotinsky continued right up until the Nazi invasion of Poland.\n\nUntil the outbreak of World War II, the relations between the Jews and the local Gentile population which contained Byelorussians, Ukrainians but mostly Poles – had been generally good with the exception of Eastern Poland, especially the Wołyń area, where Jewish shopkeepers were ruthlessly chased out by the Ukrainian nationalists from some 3,000 villages. On August 23, 1939, the Soviet Union and Nazi Germany entered into a Non-Aggression Pact, the Molotov–Ribbentrop Pact, with a secret protocol providing for the partition of Poland. On September 1, 1939, Germany attacked Poland and two weeks later, the Soviets invaded on September 17, 1939.\n\nUnlike the Vichy French or the Norwegian Quisling regime, Poles did not form a pro-Nazi collaborationist government. Further, Poles did not form collaborationist Nazi units such as the 29th Waffen Grenadier Division of the SS RONA (1st Russian).\n\nThe number of Jews in Poland on September 1, 1939, amounted to about 3,474,000 people. In anticipation of the German attack, during the Summer of 1939, Jews and ethnic Poles cooperated preparing anti-tank fortifications. Contrary to many misconceptions, Jews in Poland were not simply victims of the ensuing Holocaust. Jewish Polish soldiers were among the first, to launch armed resistance against the Nazi German forces during the 1939 Invasion of Poland.\n\nAmong one million Polish soldiers fighting the Germans in September 1939, 13 percent (130,000) were Polish citizens of Jewish background, who fought in all branches of Polish Armed Forces. It is estimated that during the entirety of World War II as many as 32,216 Jewish soldiers and officers died and 61,000 were taken prisoner by the Germans; the majority did not survive. The soldiers and non-commissioned officers who were released ultimately found themselves in the ghettos and labor camps and suffered the same fate as other Jewish civilians. Germans killed about 20 000 civilians in September 1939, a number of them Jewish. For example, in Częstochowa 227 civilians were murdered on September the 4th, 22 of them Jewish.\n\nAlready in 1939 several hundreds synagogues were blown up or burned down by the Germans who sometimes forced the Jews to do it themselves. In many cases the Germans turned the remaining synagogues into storage facilities, workshops, places of entertainment, or ad-hoc prisons. Rabbis and other religious Jews were ordered to dance and sing in public with their beards cut or torn. Within weeks, Germans ordered all Polish Jews to register and the word \"Jude\" was stamped on their identity cards. Jews were placed outside the law and their lives were regulated by orders or edicts. Series of restrictions and prohibitions were introduced and brutally enforced. Jews were forbidden to walk on the sidewalks, use public transport, enter places of leisure, sports arenas, theaters, museums and libraries. On the street Jews had to lift their hat to passing Germans and contact between Jews and non-Jews was banned.\n\nIn newly partitioned Poland, according to 1931 census, 61.2% of Polish Jews found themselves under German occupation while 38.8% were in the Polish areas annexed by the Soviet Union. Based on population migration from West to East during and after the Invasion of Poland the percentage of Jews in the Soviet-occupied areas was probably higher than that of the 1931 census.\n\nThe Soviet annexation was accompanied by the widespread arrests of Polish government officials, police and military personnel, teachers, priests, judges, border guards, etc., followed by executions and massive deportation to Soviet interior and forced labour camps were many perished as a result of harsh conditions. The largest group of all those arrested or deported were ethnic Poles but Jews accounted for significant percentage of all the prisoners. Jewish refugees from Western Poland who registered for repatriation back to the German zone, wealthy Jewish capitalists, prewar political and social activists were labelled \"class enemies\" and deported for that reason. Jews caught for illegal border crossings or engaged in illicit trade and other \"illegal\" activities were also arrested and deported. Several thousand, mostly captured Polish soldiers were executed on the spot, some of them were Jewish. Private property, land, banks, factories, businesses, shops, and large workshops were nationalized. Political activity ceased and political prisoners filled the jails, many of whom were later executed. Zionism was designated as counter-revolutionary and forbidden. All Jewish and Polish newspapers were shut down within a day of the entry of the Soviet forces and anti-religious propaganda was conducted mainly through the new Soviet press which attacked religion in general and the Jewish faith in particular. Although the synagogues and churches were not shut down, they were heavily taxed. Sovietization of the economy affected the entire population. However, the Jewish communities were more vulnerable because of their distinctive social and economic structure. Red Army also brought with them new and different economic norms expressed in low wages, shortages in materials, rising prices, and a declining living standard. The Soviets also implemented a new employment policy that enabled many Jews to find jobs as civil servants in place of former Polish senior officials and leading personalities who were arrested and exiled to remote regions of Russia together with their families. Some Jewish militia participated in deportations of Poles by the Soviet NKVD.\n\nThere were many Jews who considered themselves both good Poles and good Jews and demonstrated loyalty toward Poland, assisting Poles during brutal Soviet occupation. Among Polish officers killed by the NKVD in 1940 in the Katyń massacre there were 500–600 Jews, among them Baruch Steinberg, Chief Rabbi of the Polish Army during German invasion of Poland. From 1939 to 1941 between 100,000 and 300,000 Polish Jews were deported from Soviet-occupied Polish territory into the Soviet Union. Some of them, especially Polish Communists (e.g. Jakub Berman), moved voluntarily; however, most of them were forcibly deported, some of them to \"Gulag\". Small numbers of Polish Jews (about 6,000) were able to leave the Soviet Union in 1942 with the Władysław Anders army, among them the future Prime Minister of Israel Menachem Begin. During the Polish army's II Corps' stay in the British Mandate of Palestine, 67% (2,972) of the Jewish soldiers deserted, many to join the \"Irgun\". General Anders decided not to prosecute the deserters. The cemetery of Polish soldiers who died during the Battle of Monte Cassino and the one in Casamassima contains also headstones bearing a Star of David.\n\nThe wartime continuation of the Second Polish Republic, the Polish Government in Exile, included Polish Jewish representatives: Szmul Zygielbojm and Ignacy Schwarzbart. The Polish Underground State and its military arm, the Armia Krajowa, as one of the largest anti-Nazi resistance movements in Europe, included Jewish units: the Jewish Military Union and the Jewish Combat Organization.\n\nWhile most Poles of all ethnicities had anti-Soviet and anti-communist sentiments, a portion of the Jewish population, along with ethnic Belarusians, Ukrainians and communist Poles had initially welcomed Soviet forces. The general feeling amongst Polish Jews was a sense of relief in having escaped the dangers of falling under Nazi rule, as well as from the overt policies of discrimination against Jews which existed in the Polish state, including discrimination in education, employment and commerce, as well as antisemitic violence that in some cases reached pogrom levels. The Polish poet and former communist Aleksander Wat has stated that Jews were more inclined to cooperate with the Soviets Norman Davies noted that among the informers and collaborators, the percentage of Jews was striking, and they prepared lists of Polish \"class enemies\", while other historians have indicated that the level of Jewish collaboration could well have been less than that of ethnic Poles. Holocaust scholar Martin Dean has written that \"few local Jews obtained positions of power under Soviet rule.\"\n\nThe issue of Jewish collaboration with the Soviet occupation remains controversial. A large group of scholars note that while not pro-communist, many Jews saw the Soviets as the lesser threat compared to the Nazis. They stress that stories of Jews welcoming the Soviets on the streets are largely impressionistic and not reliable indicators of the level of Jewish support for the Soviets. Additionally, it has been noted that ethnic Poles were as prominent as Jews were in filling civil and police positions in the occupation administration, and that Jews, both civilians and in the Polish military, suffered equally at the hands of the Soviet occupiers. Whatever initial enthusiasm for the Soviet occupation Jews might have felt was soon dissipated upon feeling the impact of the suppression of Jewish societal modes of life by the occupiers. The tensions between ethnic Poles and Jews as a result of this period has, according to some historians, taken a toll on relations between Poles and Jews throughout the war, creating until this day, an impasse to Polish-Jewish rapprochement.\n\nFollowing Operation Barbarossa, numerous atrocities were carried out in the territories formerly occupied by the Soviets, some of them with help from Poles themselves as in the case of the massacre in Jedwabne in which some 300 Jewish citizens of Jedwabne were burned alive in a barn (Institute of National Remembrance: \"Final Findings\"). The Polish participation in massacres of the Polish Jewish community remains a controversial subject, in part due to the Jewish leaders refusing to allow the remains of the Jewish victims to be exhumed and their cause of death to be properly established. The Polish Institute for National Remembrance identified other pogroms similar to Jedwabne. The reasons for these massacres are still debated, but they included resentment over the cooperation with the Soviet invaders and prior collaboration in the Polish-Soviet War and the 1939 invasion of the Kresy regions, not to mention coercion by the Nazis to participate in German massacres.\n\nOnly a small percentage of the Jewish community had been members of the Communist Party of Poland during the interwar era, though they had occupied an influential and conspicuous place in the party's leadership and in the rank and file in major centres, such as Warsaw, Lodz and Lwow. A larger number of younger Jews, often through the pro-Marxist Bund (General Jewish Workers' Union) or some Zionist groups, were sympathetic to Communism and Soviet Russia, both of which had been enemies of the Polish Second Republic. As a result of these factors they found it easy after 1939 to participate in the Soviet occupation administration in Eastern Poland, and briefly occupied prominent positions in industry, schools, local government, police and other Soviet-installed institutions. The antisemitic Polish concept of \"Judeo-communism\" was reinforced during the period of the Soviet occupation (see Żydokomuna).\n\nBy the end of 1941 all Jews in German occupied Poland were ghettoized. Except the children, they had to wear an identifying badge with a blue Star of David. Many Jews in what was then eastern Poland also fell victim to mobile Nazi death squads called \"Einsatzgruppen\", which massacred Jews especially in 1941. Poland was the only occupied country during World War II where the Nazis formally imposed the death penalty for anybody found sheltering and helping Jews. Food rations for Poles were very small (669 kcal per day in 1941) and black market prices of food were high, factors which made difficult to hide people and almost impossible to hide entire families, especially in the cities. Despite these draconian measures imposed by the Nazis, Poland has the highest number of Righteous Among The Nations awards at the Yad Vashem Museum.\n\nThe Germans established hundreds of ghettos in which Jews were confined and starved although cruelly offered hopes of survival before eventually being subjected to genocide. The Warsaw Ghetto was the largest, with 380,000 people and the Łódź Ghetto, the second largest, holding about 160,000. Other Polish cities with large Jewish ghettos included Białystok, Częstochowa, Kielce, Kraków, Lublin, Lwów, and Radom. Ghettos were also established in smaller settlements. Living conditions in the Ghettos were terrible. Jews who tried to escape were shot to death with their bullet-riddled bodies to be left in public view until dusk as a warning. Many of those who fled to the Aryan side without connections with Christian Poles willing to risked their lives in order to help, returned to the ghettos when they were unable to find a place to hide. Hundreds of four- to five-year-old Jewish children went across en masse to the Aryan side, sometimes several times a day, smuggling food into the ghettos, returning with goods that often weighed more than they did. Smuggling was sometimes the only source of subsistence for these children and their parents, who would otherwise have died of starvation. Shooting of Jews who were caught trying to smuggle in food became routine. People were shot to death for bringing in a chicken or a liter of milk. Poles from the Aryan side found assisting Jews in obtained food were subject to the death penalty.\n\nThe Warsaw Ghetto was established by the German Governor-General Hans Frank on October 16, 1940. The German authorities allowed a Jewish Council (\"Judenrat\") of 24 men, led by Adam Czerniaków, to form its own police to maintain order in the ghetto. Judenrat was also responsible for organizing the labour battalions demanded by the Germans. At this time, the population of the ghetto was estimated to be about 380,000 people, about 30% of the population of Warsaw. However, the size of the Ghetto was about 2.4% of the size of Warsaw. The Germans then closed off the Warsaw Ghetto from the outside world on November 16 of that year, building a wall around it. During the next year and a half, Jews from smaller cities and villages were brought into the Warsaw Ghetto, while diseases (especially typhoid) and starvation kept the inhabitants at about the same number. Average food rations in 1941 for Jews in Warsaw were limited to 253 kcal and 669 kcal for Poles as opposed to 2,613 kcal for Germans.\n\nOn July 22, 1942, the mass deportation of the Warsaw Ghetto inhabitants began; during the next fifty-two days (until September 12, 1942) about 300,000 people were transported by train to the Treblinka extermination camp. The deportations were carried out by fifty German SS soldiers, 200 soldiers of the Latvian \"Schutzmannschaften\" Battalions, 200 Ukrainian Police, and 2,500 Jewish Ghetto Police. Employees of the \"Judenrat\", including the Ghetto Police, along with their families and relatives, were given immunity from deportations in return for their cooperation. Additionally, in August 1942, Jewish Ghetto policemen, under the threat of deportation themselves, were ordered to personally \"deliver\" five ghetto inhabitants to the Umschlagplatz train station. On January 18, 1943, some Ghetto inhabitants, including members of ŻOB (\"Żydowska Organizacja Bojowa\", Jewish Combat Organisation), resisted, often with arms, German attempts for additional deportations to Treblinka.\nThe first ghetto uprising is believed to have occurred in 1942 the small town of Łachwa in the Polesie Voivodship (see Lakhva Ghetto).\nThe final destruction of the Warsaw Ghetto came four months later after the crushing one of the most heroic and tragic battles of the war, Warsaw Ghetto Uprising, led by Mordechaj Anielewicz. Warsaw Ghetto Uprising, which was reverberated throughout Poland and the rest of the world as an example of courage and defiance, was followed by other failed Ghetto uprisings in Nazi occupied Poland. Some of the survivors of Warsaw Ghetto Uprising, still held in camps at or near Warsaw were freed a year later during the larger 1944 Warsaw Uprising, led by Polish resistance movement Armia Krajowa and immediately joined Polish fighters. Only few of them survived. Polish commander of that Jewish unit, Waclaw Micuta, described them as one of the best fighters of the Warsaw Uprising, always at the front line. It is estimated that over 2000 Polish Jews, some as well known as Marek Edelman or Icchak Cukierman, and several dozen Greek, Hungarian or even German Jews freed by Armia Krajowa from Gesiowka concentration camp in Warsaw, men and woman, took part in combat against Nazis during 1944 Warsaw Uprising. As many as 17,000 Polish Jews lost their lives during 1944 Warsaw Uprising, who either fought with the AK units or had been discovered in hiding.\n\nThe fate of the Warsaw Ghetto was similar to that of the other ghettos in which Jews were concentrated. With the decision of Nazi Germany to begin the Final Solution, the destruction of the Jews of Europe, Aktion Reinhard began in 1942, with the opening of the extermination camps of Bełżec, Sobibór, and Treblinka, followed by Auschwitz-Birkenau where people were executed to death in the gas chambers and massive executions (death wall). Many died from hunger, starvation, disease, torture or by pseudo-medical experiments. The mass deportation of Jews from ghettos to these camps, such as happened at the Warsaw Ghetto, soon followed, and more than 1.7 million Jews were killed at the Aktion Reinhard camps by October 1943 alone.\n\nThe Polish Government in Exile was the first (in November 1942) to reveal the existence of Nazi-run concentration camps and the systematic extermination of the Jews by the Nazis, through its courier Jan Karski and through the activities of Witold Pilecki, member of Armia Krajowa and the only person who volunteered for imprisonment in Auschwitz and organized a resistance movement inside the camp itself. One of the Jewish members of the National Council of the Polish government in exile, Szmul Zygielbojm, committed suicide to protest the indifference of the Allied governments in the face of the Holocaust in Poland. The Polish government in exile was also the only government to set up an organization (Żegota) specifically aimed at helping the Jews in Poland.\n\nThousands of Polish Jews migrated, were deported or later evacuated to Central or Eastern Soviet Union and many of them survived the Holocaust. Some of them died however because of hard conditions, Soviet repressions or in result of Ukraininian nationalist's violence. Two Bund leaders, Wiktor Alter and Henryk Erlich were executed in December 1941 in Moscow as alleged agents of Nazi Germany. Some Jews joined the Polish Communist Army (Józef Różański, Włodzimierz Brus) or Union of Polish Patriots (Julia Brystiger) and returned to Poland in 1944, others were allowed to leave the Soviet Union after the war or around 1956 (Lew Rywin).\n\nBetween 40,000 and 100,000 Polish Jews survived the Holocaust in Poland by hiding or by joining the Polish or Soviet partisan units. Another 50,000–170,000 were repatriated from the Soviet Union and 20,000–40,000 from Germany and other countries. At its postwar peak, there were 180,000–240,000 Jews in Poland settled mostly in Warsaw, Łódź, Kraków, Wrocław and Lower Silesia, e.g. Bielawa. Dzierżoniów.\n\nSoon after the end of the Second World War, Jews began to exit Poland thanks to the repatriation agreement with the USSR. Poland was the only Eastern Bloc country to allow free Jewish aliyah to Mandate Palestine. The exodus took place in stages. After the war, the vast majority of survivors left for several reasons, often more than one. Many left simply because they did not want to live in a communist country. Some left because the refusal of the Communist regime to return prewar private property. Others did not wish to rebuild their lives in the places where their families were murdered. Yet others wanted to go to British Mandate of Palestine soon to become Israel. Some of the survivors had relatives abroad. The dominant factor, however, was the decision made by Gen. Spychalski of PWP to sign a decree allowing the remaining survivors to leave Poland without visas or exit permits. Poland was the only Eastern Bloc country to allow free Jewish aliyah upon the conclusion of World War II. Consequently, the Jewish emigration from Poland increased dramatically. Britain demanded from Poland (among others) to halt the Jewish exodus, but their pressure was largely unsuccessful. Jewish-Polish writer Rachela Auerbach, who visited Treblinka in November 1945 as part of an official delegation for the Main Commission for the Investigation of Hitlerite Crimes, found that some Polish peasants were digging up the ashes in search of overlooked valuables. Bełżec was similarly desecrated from 1943 onwards after the camp was closed, (see: Sonderaktion 1005 for the 1943 liquidation of the actual mass graves in both Treblinka and Belzec).\n\nPostwar Poland was a chaotic country in which pro-Soviet communists and patriotic nationalists fought each other. Hundreds of Jews were murdered in anti-Jewish violence, including numerous functionaries of the new Stalinist regime. In the Kielce pogrom of 1946, thirty-seven Jews were brutally murdered. Until today the debate in Poland continues about the inferred evidence of the Soviet NKVD provocation and the presence of Russian soldiers in the killings. Between 1945 and 1948, 100,000–120,000 Jews left Poland. Their departure was largely organized by the Zionist activists in Poland such as Adolf Berman and Icchak Cukierman under the umbrella of a semi-clandestine, tolerated by the government of Poland, organization \"Berihah\" (\"Flight\"). Berman's brother Jakub supervised security forces, so he was one of the most influential people in Poland. \"Berihah\" was also responsible for the organized emigration of Jews from Romania, Hungary, Czechoslovakia, and Yugoslavia totaling 250,000 (including Poland) Holocaust survivors.\n\nA second wave of Jewish emigration (50,000) took place during the liberalization of the Communist regime between 1957 and 1959. Then there was the third major wave of emigration, which one might call an expulsion of Jews, in 1968–1969. Thereafter almost all Jews who decided to stay in Poland \"stopped\" being Jewish.\n\nThe Bund took part in the post-war elections of 1947 on a common ticket with the (non-communist) Polish Socialist Party (PPS) and gained its first and only parliamentary seat in its Polish history, plus several seats in municipal councils. Under pressure from Soviet-installed Communist authorities, the Bund's leaders 'voluntarily' disbanded the party in 1948–1949 against the opposition of many activists.\n\nFor those Polish Jews who remained, the rebuilding of Jewish life in Poland was carried out between October 1944 and 1950 by the Central Committee of Polish Jews (\"Centralny Komitet Żydów Polskich\", CKŻP) which provided legal, educational, social care, cultural, and propaganda services. A countrywide Jewish Religious Community, led by Dawid Kahane, who served as chief rabbi of the Polish Armed Forces, functioned between 1945 and 1948 until it was absorbed by the CKŻP. Eleven independent political Jewish parties, of which eight were legal, existed until their dissolution during 1949–50.\n\nA number of Polish Jews participated in the establishment of the anti-revisionist socialist government in the People's Republic of Poland between 1944 and 1956, holding, among others, prominent posts in the Politburo of the Polish United Worker's Party (e.g. Jakub Berman, Hilary Minc – responsible for establishing a socialist economy), and the security service \"Urząd Bezpieczeństwa\" (UB) and in diplomacy/intelligence. After 1956, during the process of destalinisation in Poland under Władysław Gomułka's regime, some \"Urząd Bezpieczeństwa\" officials including Roman Romkowski (born Natan Grunsapau-Kikiel), Józef (\"Jacek\") Różański (born Jozef Goldberg), and Anatol Fejgin were prosecuted for \"power abuses\" including the torture of Polish anticommunists (among them, Witold Pilecki), and sentenced to long prison terms. A UB official, Józef Światło, (born Izaak Fleichfarb), after escaping in 1953 to the West, exposed through Radio Free Europe the methods of the UB which led to its dissolution in 1954. Jerzy Borejsza was an important press and book editor, who attracted many talented writers.\n\nSome Jewish cultural institutions were established including the Yiddish State Theater founded in 1950 and directed by Ida Kaminska, the Jewish Historical Institute, an academic institution specializing in the research of the history and culture of the Jews in Poland, and the Yiddish newspaper \"Folks-Shtime\".\n\nIn 1967, following the Six-Day War between Israel and the Arab states, communist Poland broke off diplomatic relations with Israel. The Israeli victory over the Soviet backed Arab states in 1967 was greeted by Poles with glee; \"Our Jews have given the Soviet Arabs a drumming!\" \nBy 1968 most of Poland's 40,000 remaining Jews were assimilated into Polish society, but over the next year they became the center of a Soviet backed, centrally organized campaign, equating Jewish origins with Zionist sympathies and thus disloyalty to Poland.\n\nIn March 1968 student-led demonstrations in Warsaw (\"Polish 1968 political crisis\") gave Gomułka's government an excuse to channel public anti-government sentiment into another avenue. Thus his security chief, Mieczysław Moczar, used the situation as a pretext to launch an anti-Semitic press campaign (although the expression \"Zionist\" was officially used). The state-sponsored \"anti-Zionist\" campaign resulted in the removal of Jews from the Polish United Worker's Party and from teaching positions in schools and universities. Due to economic, political and police pressure, 25,000 Jews were forced to emigrate during 1968–1970. The campaign, though ostensibly directed at Jews who had held office in the Stalinist era and at their families, affected most of the remaining Polish Jews, whatever their backgrounds.\n\nThere were several outcomes of the \"March 1968 events\". The propaganda campaign coupled with ORMO attack on universities, damaged Poland's reputation abroad, particularly in the U.S. Many Polish intellectuals were disgusted at the promotion of official anti-Semitism, and opposed the campaign. Some of the people who emigrated to the West thereafter, founded organizations which encouraged anticommunist opposition inside Poland.\n\nDuring the late 1970s some Jewish activists were engaged in the anticommunist opposition groups. Most prominent among them, Adam Michnik (founder of Gazeta Wyborcza) was one of the founders of the Workers' Defence Committee (KOR). By the time of the fall of Communism in Poland in 1989, only 5,000–10,000 Jews remained in the country, many of them preferring to conceal their Jewish origin.\n\n"}
{"id": "2125867", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2125867", "title": "Isabella Hofmann", "text": "Isabella Hofmann\n\nIsabella Hofmann (born December 11, 1958) is an American actress.\n\nA native of Chicago, Hofmann attended East Troy High School in East Troy, Wisconsin, and Columbia College Chicago. She performed with the comedy troupe The Second City before breaking into television in 1986. Among her various television credits are Meredith Cavanaugh on \"JAG\", Kate McCarron on the NBC sitcom \"Dear John\", Lt. Megan Russert in the crime drama \"\", and Cecile Malone on the Showtime comedy \"Beggars and Choosers\". She played Annie in the 1990 movie \"Tripwire\" and Marie in the 1994 movie \"Renaissance Man\".\n\nHofmann appeared twice in Season 7 of TV series \"Criminal Minds\" as David Rossi's first ex-wife Carolyn Baker. Hofmann appeared in a 2010 episode of \"NCIS\" (a spinoff of \"JAG\") as the villainous Evelyn Wallace. In 2015, Hofmann landed a recurring role as Clarissa Stein, wife of Martin Stein (played by Victor Garber) in three episodes of \"The Flash\", later reprising the role in two episodes of \"Legends of Tomorrow\" in 2016. She returned to the role in 2017 for the Arrowverse crossover event \"Crisis on Earth-X\", appearing in part one (season 3, episode 8 of \"Supergirl\") and part four (season 3, episode 8 of \"Legends\").\n\nFilm\n\nTelevision\nVideo Games\n"}
{"id": "2125874", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2125874", "title": "Vickers Vildebeest", "text": "Vickers Vildebeest\n\nThe Vickers Vildebeest and the similar Vickers Vincent were two very large two- to three-seat single-engined British biplanes designed and built by Vickers and used as light bombers, torpedo bombers and in army cooperation roles. First flown in 1928, it remained in service at the start of the Second World War, with the last Vildebeests flying against Japanese forces over Singapore and Java in 1942.\n\nDesigned against Air Ministry Specification 24/25 for the Royal Air Force (RAF), for a land-based torpedo bomber to replace the Hawker Horsley, the prototype Vildebeest, an all-metal fuselage aircraft with single-bay unstaggered fabric-covered wings and tail, was first flown in April 1928 as the Vickers Type 132, powered by a Bristol Jupiter VIII radial engine.\n\nAfter initial evaluation, the Vildebeest was shortlisted for comparison with the Blackburn Beagle and Handley Page Hare. As the Jupiter VIII was prone to vibration, a second prototype, the Vickers Type 204 was fitted with an Armstrong Siddeley Panther IIA engine and after further testing, the Vickers design was confirmed as the winner of the contest but engine problems persisted until the type was tested with a new version of the Jupiter, which later became known as the Bristol Pegasus. An initial production order was placed in 1931 for nine aircraft, with the first production aircraft flying in September 1932.\n\nFurther production ensued, with an improved version fitted with a 635 hp (474 kW) Pegasus IIM3 entering service but after only 30 examples had been produced the Air Ministry requested a modification (Specification 15/34) which added a third crew position, thus creating the Vildebeest Mk III, of which 150 examples being built for the RAF.\n\nThe Mark IV introduced the much more powerful 825 hp (615 kW) Bristol Perseus sleeve valve radial engine enclosed in a NACA cowling which significantly improved performance, increasing maximum speed to 156 mph (251 km/h) and rate of climb to 840 ft/min (4.3 m/s). In this version, the Perseus had overheating problems and was deemed unsuitable for tropical service with production limited to 18 aircraft, all of which served with the home based squadrons.\n\nIn 1931, Vickers designed as a private venture a General Purpose version of the Vildebeest to replace the RAF's Westland Wapitis and Fairey IIIFs, supporting the Army in the Middle East. Successful trials were conducted in the Middle East, Sudan and East Africa with a converted Vildebeest I in the General Purpose role during 1932–1933, and Specification 16/34 was drawn up around the three man Vildebeest, which was named the Vickers Vincent: differences from the Vildebeest were minimal (the first production Vincent was, converted from a Vildebeest MkII), principally removal of torpedo equipment, provision for an auxiliary fuel tank, message-pick-up and pyrotechnic signalling gear.\n\nPowered by a 660 hp (490 kW) Bristol Pegasus IIM3 the Vincent was unveiled to the general public for the first time at the 1935 RAF flying display at Hendon, but deliveries had already been made to No. 8 Squadron at Aden in late 1934.\n\nBetween 1934 and 1936, 197 Vincents were built for or converted from Vildebeests for the RAF.\n\nThe Vildebeest was purchased in moderately large numbers by the Royal Air Force from 1931 and used as a torpedo bomber. It entered service with No. 100 Squadron at RAF Donibristle in Scotland in October 1932, replacing the Hawker Horsley. Four frontline torpedo-bomber squadrons were equipped with the Vildebeest, two at Singapore (100 Squadron, which moved from the United Kingdom in 1933 and 36 Squadron, which replaced its Horsleys in 1935), and two more in the United Kingdom. The Vincent entered service with No. 84 Squadron RAF at Shaibah, Iraq in December 1934, re-equipping General Purpose squadrons throughout the Middle East and Africa. By 1937, it equipped six squadrons in Iraq, Aden, Kenya, Sudan, and Egypt. At the outbreak of the Second World War, 101 Vildebeests were still in service with the RAF. The two British-based squadrons flew coastal patrol and convoy escort missions until 1940 when their Vildebeests were replaced by the Bristol Beaufort. \n\nThe two Singapore-based squadrons were still waiting for their Beauforts when Japan invaded Malaya in December 1941 and the obsolete biplanes had to be deployed against the Japanese attackers, making an abortive torpedo attack on a Japanese cruiser off Kota Bharu on 8 December. The Vildebeests continued to attack the Japanese as their forces advanced down Malaya, sustaining heavy losses from Japanese fighters, particularly when no fighter cover could be provided. On 26 January 1942, the Japanese landed at Endau, 250 miles from Singapore, and 12 Vildebeests of 100 and 36 Squadrons were sent to attack the landings. Despite an escort of Brewster Buffalo and Hawker Hurricane fighters, five Vildebeests were lost. The attack was repeated later that day by eight Vildebeests of 36 Squadron and three Fairey Albacores, resulting in six more Vildebeests and two Albacores being shot down.\nThe surviving Vildebeests were withdrawn to Java on 31 January and attacked another Japanese landing force off Rembang, claiming eight ships sunk but sustaining further losses. The final two Vildebeests of 36 Squadron attempted to escape to Burma on 6 March but were lost over Sumatra. The last Vildebeests in RAF service, operated by 273 Squadron at Ceylon were retired in March 1942.\n\nWhile the Vincent had started to be replaced by more modern aircraft such as the Vickers Wellesley and Bristol Blenheim bombers, 84 remained in service with the RAF on the outbreak of the Second World War. Vincents were used for bombing missions against Italian forces in the East African Campaign and for coastal patrols from Aden, one attacking the Italian submarine \"Galileo Galilei\". Other Vincents bombed Iraqi forces during the Anglo-Iraqi War of 1941. The last frontline Vincents retired in January 1943, with the type continuing in second line service (which included pesticide spraying against locusts in Iran) until 1944.\n\nThe Vildebeest was ordered by the Spanish Republic in 1932 and licence production of 25 Vildebeest for the Spanish Republican Navy was undertaken in Spain by CASA most receiving the Hispano-Suiza HS 600 inline engine, though some other engines were also used. Around 20 survived to fight with the Spanish Republican Air Force on the loyalist side of the Spanish Civil War, some equipped with floats.\n\nA Vildebeest was the first victim of Francoist ace Joaquin Garcia-Morato.\n\n12 Vildebeests were purchased by the Royal New Zealand Air Force in 1935 for coastal defence, with a further 27 acquired from RAF stocks in 1940–41. In addition, 60 or 62 of these machines, (depending on source), were passed on to the RNZAF.\n\nNew Zealand Vildebeests were also used for photo mapping. A few were used for maritime patrols against German surface raiders, and Japanese submarines, (a handful were based in Fiji in December 1941), but the main wartime role of the New Zealand aircraft was as particularly unwieldy pilot trainers, until replaced by North American Harvards in 1942.\n\n\n\nA Vildebeest/Vincent composite airframe is being restored by the Royal New Zealand Air Force Museum at Wigram Aerodrome in Christchurch, from the substantially complete remains of Vildebeest Mark III NZ102, incorporating parts from Vildebeest NZ105 and Vincents NZ355 and 357. A Vincent (NZ311) has nearly completed restoration to static display by the Subritzky family near Auckland, New Zealand. A Spanish Vildebeest is rumoured to have survived.\n\nNotes\nCitations\n\nBibliography\n\n"}
{"id": "2125876", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2125876", "title": "Hamina-class missile boat", "text": "Hamina-class missile boat\n\nThe \"Hamina\"-class missile boat is a class of fast attack craft of the Finnish Navy. They are classified as \"missile fast attack craft\" or \"ohjusvene\", literally \"missile boat\" in Finnish.\nThe \"Hamina\" FACs are based at Upinniemi, and form the 7th Surface Warfare Squadron, part of the Finnish Coastal Fleet, together with the minelayers MLC \"Hämeenmaa\", \"Porkkala\" and \"Pyhäranta\".\n\nThe vessels were built in the late 1990s, early 2000s, and are the fourth generation of Finnish missile craft. The first vessel was ordered in December 1996 and the fourth was handed over on 19 June 2006. Since the launch of the s, all fast attack craft have been named after Finnish coastal cities. The class was previously known also as Rauma 2000 following its predecessor the .\n\nThe four vessels form what the Finnish Navy calls \"Squadron 2000\" (). Initially the Finnish Navy considered several different compositions for the new squadron, and at one point only two \"Hamina\"-class vessels and four ACV were to have been built. After a strategic shift of the Finnish Navy's role, the composition of the Squadron 2000 followed suit. The \"Tuuli\"-class prototype was never fully equipped, nor fitted for operational use and its three sisters were cancelled, instead two more \"Hamina\"-class boats have been built; with some of the equipment intended for the \"Tuuli\"s being used in the \"Hamina\"s. The fourth and final \"Hamina\"-class vessel was delivered in summer 2006.\n\nThe squadron reached its full operational capability in 2008 and have greatly improved the surface- and air surveillance as well as air defense capability of the Finnish Navy. Their electronic surveillance suite also increases the quality of information available to military leaders.\n\nAll ships were built at Aker Finnyards in Rauma, Finland. The vessels have their home base at Upinniemi.\n\nIn March 2014 it was announced that the \"Hamina\"-class missile boats will be upgraded in the near future.\n\nModernization of the four \"Hamina\"-class ships began in 2018 and will complete in 2021, The MLU programme will enable the \"Haminas\" to continue their service into the mid 2030's.\n\nThe main gun armament is being changed from 57mm to 40mm in order to save weight. The vessels were already at maximum weight and in order to introduce torpedoes this had to be changed.\n\nThe vessel's hull is constructed of aluminum and the superstructures are constructed of re-enforced carbon fiber composite. The vessels have a very low displacement and are very maneuverable. They are equipped with water jets instead of propellers, which allow them to operate in very shallow waters and accelerate, slow down and turn in unconventional ways.\n\nThe \"Hamina\" class are very potent vessels, boasting surveillance and firepower capacities which are usually found in ships twice the size.\n\nThe \"Hamina\" class has been designed and constructed as stealth ships with minimal magnetic, heat and radar signatures.\n\nThe shape of the vessel has been designed to reduce radar signature. Metal parts have been covered with radar absorbent material, and the composite parts have radar absorbent material embedded in the structure. Radar transparent materials have been used where applicable.\n\nUnlike glass fiber, carbon fiber blocks radio waves. This protects ship's electronics against electromagnetic pulse. In addition, it stops any radio frequency signals generated by ships electronic devices escaping outside.\nExcept for the bridge, the vessel has no windows that would allow the signals to escape.\n\nThe vessel contains hardly any steel parts, thus generating very low magnetic field. The remaining magnetic field is actively canceled with electromagnets.\n\nExhaust gases can be directed underwater to minimize thermal signature, or up in the air to minimize sound in submarines direction.\n50 nozzles around the decks and upper structures can be used to spray seawater on the vessel to cool it.\nIn addition, the nozzles can be used to clean the ship after chemical attack or radioactive fall-out.\n\nThe \"Hamina\" class have the latest in surveillance and weapons technology all integrated into an intelligent command system. A Hamina class vessel can monitor about of air space and its Umkhonto surface-to-air missile system can simultaneously engage a maximum of eight aircraft, up to away, while the vessel's anti-ship missiles have a range in excess of over .\n\nThe \"Hamina\" class' primary weaponry is four RBS-15 Mk.3 anti-ship missiles. The vessels are further equipped with a Bofors 57 mm gun against surface and aerial targets as well as the Umkhonto-IR surface-to-air missiles, MASS decoy system and two 12.7 mm heavy machine guns. It is also possible to use the ships for mine-laying.\n\nThe software of the centralized combat control system is COTS oriented, built on top of Linux running on redundant x86 rack servers, which makes maintenance and future updates and optimizations simpler.\n\nIn early 2018, Finland announced the mid-life upgrade program, which will equip all four boats in the class with new Swedish lightweight anti-submarine warfare torpedoes in the years 2023-2025 and extend the life of the boats to 2035 .\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2125881", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2125881", "title": "Jewish-Polish history (1989–present)", "text": "Jewish-Polish history (1989–present)\n\nWith the end of Communism in Poland the Jewish cultural, social, and religious life has been undergoing a revival. Many historical issues related to the Holocaust and the long period of Soviet domination in the countrysuppressed by Communist censorshiphave been reevaluated and publicly discussed leading to better understanding and visible improvement in Polish-Jewish relations.\n\nIn 1989, the Soviet-backed regime – notorious for its political repression – collapsed, thus exposing the rift between the Polish and Jewish communities caused by the World War II remembrance and the 1944–1989 period of prolonged human rights violations committed by the Polish government against its own people. Since then, the 20th-century history of the Polish Jews have been widely popularized, including the circumstances surrounding the Massacre in Jedwabne, the Koniuchy Massacre, the Polish-Jewish wartime as well as postwar relations in general, Stalinist reign of terror and the March 1968 events. Many negative stereotypes originating from the cold-war literature on the subject have been challenged. The rescue of Jews by Poles during the Holocaust suppressed by the Soviet-backed regime in an attempt to discredit the Polish resistance movements as reactionary has also been reasserted.\n\nIn 1993 the Union of Jewish Religious Communities in Poland (ZGWŻ) was established with the aim of organizing the religious and cultural life of the members of the Jewish communities in Poland. It helps the descendants of the Holocaust survivors in a variety of legal matters (communal as well as personal) such as, in the process of recovery and restoration of property once owned by the Jewish Kehilla (קהלה) and nationalized in communist Poland. Jewish religious practise has also been helped financially with grants from the Ronald Lauder Foundation. The Polish Jewish community employs steadily two rabbis, runs a network of Jewish schools and summer camps, and sustains several Jewish periodicals and book series.\n\nAcademic Jewish studies programs were established at Warsaw University and the Jagiellonian University in Kraków. Kraków became home to the Judaica Foundation, which has sponsored a wide range of cultural and educational programs on Jewish themes for a predominantly Polish audience.\n\nPoland was the first Communist Bloc country to recognize Israel in 1986 again, and restore full relations in 1990. Government relations between Poland and Israel are steadily improving, resulting in the mutual visits of presidents and the ministers of foreign affairs. The Polish government will finance the construction of the Museum of the History of Polish Jews in Warsaw.\n\nIn September 2000, dignitaries from Poland, Israel, the United States, and other countries (including Prince Hassan of Jordan) gathered in the city of Oświęcim (location of the Auschwitz concentration camp) to commemorate the opening of the refurbished \"Chevra Lomdei Mishnayot synagogue\" and the \"Auschwitz Jewish Center\". The synagogue, the sole synagogue in Oświęcim to survive World War II and an adjacent Jewish cultural and educational center, provide visitors a place to pray and to learn about the active pre–World War II Jewish community that existed in Oświęcim. The synagogue was the first communal property in the country to be returned to the Jewish community under the 1997 law allowing for restitution of Jewish communal property.\n\nIn April 2001, during the 13th March of the Living from Auschwitz to Birkenau honouring victims of the Holocaust, several hundred local citizens joined the 2,000 marchers from Israel and other countries. Government officials participating in the event included Members of Parliament, the province's governor, Oświęcim's mayor and the chairman of city council. Schoolchildren, boy scouts, the Polish-Israeli Friendship Society, and the Polish Union of Jewish Students (PUSZ) also participated in the march. In May 2001, several hundred students from around the world marched through the town in \"The March of Remembrance and Hope\".\n\nIn April 2002, during the 14th \"March of the Living\" from Auschwitz to Birkenau to honor victims of the Holocaust, several hundred citizens joined 1,500 marchers from Israel and other countries.\n\nIn a 2005 survey commissioned by Anti-Defamation League from New York in 12 European countries, asking about selective stereotypes among 500 callers each, Polish respondents averaged 52% at question #1, 43% at #2, 43% at #3, 52% at #4 and 39% at #5 (the highest) asked if \"The Jews are responsible for the death of Christ\", with the lowest percentage of believers that Israeli actions were responsible for violence against European Jews (21% at question #7) among all of the 12 countries surveyed. According to a Polish survey conducted in 2005, by CBOS institute (target of critical evaluations themselves by the media), in which Poles were asked to assess their attitudes toward 32 nationalities representing different European and non-European countries, 45% claimed to feel antipathy towards Jews (steadily decreasing) with 18% to feel sympathy (fluctuating by up to 10 percentage points annually; in 1997 it was 28%), while 29% felt impartial and 8% were undecided. Those surveyed were asked to express their feeling on the scale from −3 (strong antipathy) to +3 (strong sympathy). The average score for attitude towards Jews was −0.67 in that year. In the CBOS survey from 2010, antipathy decreased to 27%, and sympathy rose to 31% (down from 34% in 2008). The average score for attitude was +0.05 at that time.\n\nThe Chief Rabbi of Poland, Michael Schudrich, said in a BBC interview: \"it's ... false and painful stereotype that all Poles are antisemitic. This is something I want to clearly state: this is a false stereotype. Today there is antisemitism in Poland, as unfortunately the rest of Europe; it is more or less at the same level as the rest of Europe. More important is that you have a growing number of Poles who oppose antisemitism.\"\n\nAccording to Alina Cała, in 1968 the Moczarite faction transposed the Jewish victims of the Holocaust with their persecutors, accusing the Jews of support for the Nazis. While this faction was suppressed and broken up after one year, no attempt was taken to combat antisemitism and this propaganda has had long lasting effects in Polish society. Cała sees modern antisemitism in Poland as a mix of pre-war anti-communist propaganda augmented by Moczarite propaganda whose communist roots are clearly evident. According to Cała since 2007 antisemitism has been on the decline in Poland, though still evident in Polish discourse.\n\nAccording to an ADL report released in 2012, based on telephone survey of 500 adults in Poland (out of the total number of 5,000 adults polled by Ipsos-Reid in 10 European countries), 54% of Poles continue to believe in some anti-Semitic stereotypes. The percentage is down from similar survey conducted in 2009. For instance, with regard to a question of whether \"Jews have too much power in the business world\", Poles surveyed ranked the third-highest after Hungary (73%) and Spain (60%). On another question regarding loyalty of their Jewish citizens, the surveyed Poles answered at par with Italians at 61% (overall, more than half of all European respondents gave the same answer). Later research conducted in Poland and published in 2013 revealed that more than 64.4% of the population agree with phrases that express belief in Jewish conspiracy (Jews would like to control the international financial institution; Jews often meet in hiding to discuss their plans; etc.) Moreover, the survey found that people who believed that Jews are a collectively intentional group that aims at dominating the world were the ones who would most strongly oppose Jewish rights to buy land, to open businesses, or to regain their lost properties. People who hold such beliefs are also unwilling to vote for a political candidate with Jewish origins or to accept a Jew in their closest environment. The study's results were presented to the Polish Sejm (parliament) in January 2014 and were well received by most of its members. Towards the end of 2014, a study conducted by Warsaw University Center for Research on Prejudice found out that more than half of Polish youth visit anti-Semitic websites that glorify Hitler and the Nazi era. It was also found that some Polish participants agreed with antisemitic phrases. The study's results were presented to the Polish parliament.\n\nIn July 2013, following animal rights activist campaigns and the European Council directive of September 24, 2009, the Polish government passed an animal protection law that had the effect of banning kosher slaughter. This was condemned by Jewish groups in Poland and around the world. Poland is the second member state of the European Union to pass a relevant bill, after Sweden. In the parliamentary vote, although 178 members voted for re-legalizing ritual slaughter, 222 members opposed it. The new law is causing concerns for some Polish meat processing plants. The Shechita ritual requires cutting the throat of an animal without stunning it first. According to FAWC it can take up to two minutes for cattle to bleed to death.\n\nA research published by Pew Research Center in June 2015 revealed that out of six European countries researched, Poland has the most unfavorable opinion of Jews. While 78% of Europeans have a favorable opinion of Jews, only 59% of the participants in Poland have positive feelings for Jewish people, and 28% hold unfavorable opinion. According to the authors, these outcomes shows no significance change from previous studies.\nA new spat developed between Poland and Israel in February 2019 following comments made by Prime Minister Netanyahu about Poland's alleged cooperation with the occupying Nazi régime in the Holocaust during WWII, which resulted in Poland's Prime Minister Morawiecki cancelling his visit to a summit in Israel. Netanyahu subsequently issued a clarification which in the eyes of the Polish authorities still amounted to a gross calumny.\n\n"}
{"id": "2125885", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2125885", "title": "Bad Oeynhausen", "text": "Bad Oeynhausen\n\nBad Oeynhausen () is a spa town on the southern edge of the Wiehengebirge in the district of Minden-Lübbecke in the East-Westphalia-Lippe region of North Rhine-Westphalia, Germany. The closest larger towns are Bielefeld (39 kilometres southwest) and Hanover (80 km east).\n\nIn the village of Bergkirchen, which belongs to Bad Oeynhausen, a wellspring sanctuary existed in pre-Christian (Saxon) times at the local crossing of the Wiehengebirge, which was replaced in the 9th century by a church. Today's church is a subsequent building. On the church and the downhill-situated Widukind spring plates explain this further. A few metres from the church a 13th-century timbered homestead can still be found.\n\nIn 753 Pepin the Short, according to the Royal Frankish Annals, stopped over \"ad locum qui dicitur Rimiae\", so that Rehme is commonly accepted as the oldest part of town. \n\nThe origin myth of Bad Oeynhausen relates that in 1745 a local farmer named Sültemeyer noticed that after his pigs had wallowed in nearby mud they had a salty crust on their backs and he decided to investigate the source. After public awareness of this finding, King Frederick II of Prussia ordered the construction of a saltworks, which was named \"Royal Saline Neusalzwerk\". Today's Sültemeyer Fountain (colloquial: Pig-Fountain), in the city centre, is a reminder of the city's beginning.\nAfter 1830, mining captain Carl Baron of Oeynhausen (1795–1865) oversaw drilling in today's spa garden area in search of salt deposits, but instead found a thermal salt spring in 1845. Quickly the healing abilities of this spring were discovered and first baths were built in the community, which now was called \"Neusalzwerk near Rehme\". In 1848 King Frederick William IV of Prussia renamed it to \"Royal Bath (German: Bad) Oeynhausen\", and this name was retained after receiving its own town charter in 1860. \nThe opening of the Cologne-Minden railway line in 1849 connected the city with railroad network.\n\nThe growth of spa activities and the town's development continued into World War II. Among other things the Kurpark (spa garden), according to plans by Peter Joseph Lenné, and the Kurhaus (spa hotel) in 1908 (from 1980-2002 a Casino was located here; today called the Kaiserpalais, it hosts a Varieté, a noble restaurant and a discothèque) were constructed. At the beginning of the 20th century residential houses for the bourgeoisie were built around the spa garden.\nThe extraordinary conglomeration of different architectural styles of the spa garden's buildings and the surrounding mansons bestowed Bad Oeynhausen the unofficial title \"Museum for the Architecture of the 19th Century\". \nOne of the most famous buildings, the \"Farne-Villa\" was replaced by a new building in 1969.\n\nIn the first half of the 20th century additional thermal salt springs were drilled. Among these the \"Jordansprudel\", drilled in 1926, is best known and with a capacity of 6000 l/min and a total height of up to 40 m it is the world's highest carbonated thermal salt spring and de facto the town's landmark.\n\nUnder Nazi Germany, Bad Oeynhausen hosted a synod of the Confessing Church, as well as the home congregation to Jakob Emil Karl Koch, a leading member. The World War II tank factory of the town was bombed on 30 March 1945. Post-war, the town hosted the Control Commission for Germany – British Element (CCG/BE), the military government for the British Zone of Occupation and served as the British Army of the Rhine headquarters.\n\nThe town was returned to local control in 1954 and spa activities resumed. In 1973, the seven surrounding municipalities Wulferdingsen, Volmerdingsen, Werste, Eidinghaisen, Dehme, Rehme and Lohe of the former \"Amt Rehme\" were merged with Bad Oeynhausen into one commune. The \"State-owned Spa Bad Oeynhausen\" (), property of the state of North Rhine-Westphalia, was municipalised in 2004.\n\nBad Oeynhausen is located on the west bank of the Weser river. It has the world's most highly carbonated thermal saltwater fountain, the \"Jordansprudel\". On calm days the fountain gets up to 40 metres high. The water of the spring is believed to have many medicinal qualities, giving rise to a number of health spas.\n\nA large percentage of the area is used for agriculture:\nThis applies to the entire district of Minden-Lübbecke, where the majority of the land is used for agriculture. \nBad Oeynhausen consists of 8 districts:\nThe climate in Bad Oeynhausen is controlled by the Oceanic Climate. The values are based on the ones from Herford (Temperature) and the ones in Bad Oeynhausen (Precipitation)\nBad Oeynhausen built a mall called the \"Werre-Park\". It gets its name from the nearby river Werre and was opened on 1 April 1998.\n\n¹ census result\n\nThere are a number of health treatment facilities in Bad Oeynhausen. The Maternus Rehabilitation Clinic deals with rehabilitation for orthopedic, degenerative, and neurological conditions. The Klinik am Korso deals with eating disorders. The Median Rehabilitation Clinic specializes on rehabilitation for Muslim patients. The Heart and Diabetes Center North Rhine-Westphalia, an institution of the Ruhr University Hospitals, is a world-leading institution for the treatment of cardiac, circulatory and metabolic diseases. \nJust outside the city lies the Klinik Bad Oexen, a rehabilitation center for cancer patients.\n\nBad Oeynhausen is twinned with:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2125886", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2125886", "title": "Memorial Day (Newfoundland and Labrador)", "text": "Memorial Day (Newfoundland and Labrador)\n\nMemorial Day has been observed annually since 1 July 1917, to recall the losses of approximately 700 soldiers of the 1st Newfoundland Regiment from the Dominion of Newfoundland at Beaumont-Hamel on the first day on the Somme during the First World War. Since the induction of Newfoundland into Canada in 1949, \"Memorial Day\" has been amalgamated to commemorate the sacrifices of members of the armed forces of the Canadian province Newfoundland and Labrador in times of war. It is observed concurrently with Canada's national holiday, Canada Day.\n\nDuring the First World War Newfoundland was a Dominion of the British Empire with a population of 240,000, and not yet part of Canada. The 1st Newfoundland Regiment was deployed at Suvla Bay on the Gallipoli peninsula with the 29th British Division in support of the Gallipoli Campaign. With the close of the Gallipoli Campaign the regiment spent a short period recuperating before being transferred to the Western Front in March 1916. In France, the regiment regained battalion strength in preparation for the Battle of the Somme. The infantry assault began on 1 July 1916, and at 8:45 a.m. the Newfoundland Regiment and 1st Battalion of the Essex Regiment received orders to move forward. So far as can be ascertained, 22 officers and 758 other ranks were directly involved in the advance. Of these, all the officers and slightly under 658 other ranks became casualties. Of the 780 men who went forward only about 110 survived unscathed, of whom only 68 were available for roll call the following day. For all intents and purposes the Newfoundland Regiment had been wiped out, the unit as a whole having suffered a casualty rate of approximately 90%.\n\nIn the past, the forget-me-not was used to commemorate those who had sacrificed during war. The small flowers were pinned in the same way that the poppy is used on Remembrance Day, November 11. The province of Newfoundland and Labrador often observes Memorial Day during the morning at the National War Memorial in St. John's and cenotaphs around the province, flying the Union Flag at half staff. In the afternoon and evening they celebrate Canada Day. Besides Remembrance Day, this day is the only other day in which the red poppy is worn in Canada.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2125891", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2125891", "title": "Bob Brockie", "text": "Bob Brockie\n\nRobert Ellison Brockie (born 1932 in Christchurch) is a New Zealand cartoonist, scientist, columnist and graphic artist.\n\nHe was an editorial cartoonist for the \"National Business Review\" from 1975 to 2018, specialising in political satire. As a biologist he is interested in animal populations, animal behaviour and diseases and did his PhD on hedgehog ecology. He has published material on butterfly evolution in Sicily, behaviour of sparrows, magpies, possums, starlings, mange mites, animal roadkill, flax flowering, cabbage tree disease.\n\nHe was science columnist for Wellington's \"Dominion Post\" newspaper from 2001–2018.\n\nBrockie takes a strong interest in refuting popular myths, like danger to humans from 1080 poison used to control possum populations.\n\nBrockie is a member of New Zealand Skeptics.\n\nIn the 2013 Queen's Birthday Honours, Brockie was appointed a Member of the New Zealand Order of Merit, for services to science and cartooning. He is a Companion of the Royal Society of New Zealand. He has twice been named New Zealand Cartoonist of the Year.\n\n\nView cartoons by Bob Brockie on DigitalNZ.\n"}
{"id": "2125904", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2125904", "title": "Cadarache", "text": "Cadarache\n\nCadarache is the largest technological research and development center for energy in Europe including CEA research activities and ITER.\nCEA Cadarache is one of the 10 research centers of the French Commission of Atomic and Alternative Energies. Established in the French département Bouches-du-Rhône, close to the village Saint-Paul-lès-Durance, CEA Cadarache, created in 1959, is located about 40 kilometers from Aix-en-Provence, approximately 60 kilometres (37 mi) north-east of the city of Marseille and stands near the borders of three other départements: the Alpes de Haute-Provence, the Var and the Vaucluse. It is one of the major sources of employment in the Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur region (PACA) and has one of the heaviest concentrations of specialized scientific staff.\nCadarache began its research activities when President Charles de Gaulle launched France's atomic energy program in 1959. The center is operated by the Commissariat à l'Énergie Atomique et aux énergies alternatives (CEA, en: Atomic Energy and Alternative Energy Commission).\nIn 2005, Cadarache was selected to be the site of the International Thermonuclear Experimental Reactor (ITER), the world's largest nuclear fusion reactor. Construction of the ITER complex began in 2007, and it is projected to begin plasma-generating operations in the 2020s. Cadarache also plays host to a number of research reactors, such as the Jules Horowitz Reactor, which is expected to enter operation around 2021.\n\nThe Cadarache center is the largest energy research site in Europe, hosting 19 Basic Nuclear Installation (BNI) and a secret BNI, including reactors, waste stockpiling and recycling facilities, bio-technology facilities and solar platforms. It employs over 5,000 people, and approximately 700 students and foreign collaborators carry out research in the facility's laboratories.\nITER, the experimental nuclear fusion tokamak, is currently under construction at Cadarache and is expected to create its first plasma by 2025. When it becomes operational, ITER is hoped to be the first large-scale fusion reactor to produce more energy than is used to initiate its fusion reactions. Other nuclear installations at Cadarache include the Tore Supra tokamak – a predecessor to ITER – and the Jules Horowitz Reactor, a 100-megawatt research reactor which is planned to begin operation in 2020.\n\nNumerous nuclear research activities are conducted at Cadarache, including mixed-oxide fuel (MOX) production, nuclear propulsion and fission reactor prototyping, nuclear fusion research and research into new forms of fission fuel. Nuclear waste is also treated and recycled at the site.\n\nA number of accidents, of varying severity, have occurred at Cadarache since its inception. Some of these incidents are listed below.\n\nCadarache is situated on the Aix-en-Provence-Durance seismological fault, and lies close to another fault, Trévaresse. The Aix-Durance fault caused France's worst recorded earthquake in 1909. In a 2000 report, the ASN mandated the closure of six installations at Cadarache that did not meet aseismic construction standards; a similar report was issued by a French nuclear safety organization in 1994. By 2010, three of these had been shut down, with the remaining three to be shut down by 2015.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2125906", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2125906", "title": "State electrician", "text": "State electrician\n\nThe official title of \"state electrician\" was given to some American state executioners in states using the electric chair during the early twentieth century including the New York State Electrician.\n\nThe first state electrician was Edwin Davis in the state of New York. He carried out the execution of William Kemmler, the first man executed with the electric chair. Davis also conducted the electrocution of the first woman on the electric chair - that of Martha M. Place.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2125915", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2125915", "title": "Abstrakt Algebra", "text": "Abstrakt Algebra\n\nAbstrakt Algebra was a Swedish experimental metal band with influences from power metal and doom metal. It was founded by bassist Leif Edling in 1994, shortly after his main project Candlemass split up.\n\nThey made one album, but Edling had already started working on a second album with a different line-up. However, due to the commercial failure of Abstrakt Algebra, Edling reformed Candlemass while taking with him some of the ideas for that second album, as well as drummer Jejo Perkovic. There, materialised on the \"Dactylis Glomerata\" album. And as such Abstrakt Algebra was over. That second album, called \"Abstrakt Algebra II\", was later included as a bonus disc in the 2006 re-release of \"Dactylis Glomerata\".\n\nMats Levén later appeared as the singer of the band Krux, another band by Edling, which has a similar take on the experimentation Edling started with Abstrakt Algebra.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2125917", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2125917", "title": "National Business Review", "text": "National Business Review\n\nThe National Business Review (or NBR) is an online publication aimed at the business sector.\n\nBusinessman Barry Colman was the \"NBR's\" publisher for 24 years, after buying it from John Fairfax & Sons in the 1980s. He sold it to Todd Scott in 2012.\n\nThe publication's website has a paywall model, where businesses and individual subscribers pay to access certain content. As of June 2016, the \"NBR\" had more than 4000 paying subscribers.\n\nThe \"NBR\" launched an online radio platform in March 2015, NBR Radio, and in early 2017 it launched a video platform, NBR View.\n\nIt has journalists based in Auckland and Wellington.\n\nThe publication produces an annual \"Rich List\" with the estimated wealth of the richest New Zealanders.\n\nDuring the term of the 5th Labour government, \"NBR\" produced a feature called \"Crony Watch\", which it intended to report on cronyism in government. The feature was discontinued in late 2008, as the new National government took office, but resumed in 2018 after National's term ended, and the 6th Labour government took office.\n\n"}
{"id": "2125919", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2125919", "title": "Gillberg (wrestler)", "text": "Gillberg (wrestler)\n\nDuane Gill (born July 10, 1959) is an American retired professional wrestler, best known for his appearances in the World Wrestling Federation (WWF) during the Attitude Era under the ring name Gillberg, a parody of then-rival promotion World Championship Wrestling's top star Goldberg. During his tenure in the WWF, Gill became a one time Light Heavyweight Champion. He would go on to hold the title for 15 months, becoming the longest reigning Light Heavyweight Champion as recognized by WWE. Gill retired on February 28, 2020.\n\nGill made his debut on the American independent scene as a part of a masked tag team with Barry Hardy called The Lords of Darkness, with Hardy billed as Agony and Gill billed as Pain. On August 2, 1991, they defeated Cream Team (Dino Casanova and Rip Sawyer) to become the Mid-Eastern Wrestling Federation's first ever Tag Team Champions. The Lords participated in two of three 40-man battle royals held in 1992.\n\nGill (sometimes teaming with Barry Hardy) became a jobber with the WWF in 1991 usually appearing on \"WWF Superstars of Wrestling\" and \"WWF Wrestling Challenge\" losing to the likes of The Undertaker, Kamala, High Energy, The Texas Tornado, Sgt. Slaughter, Jim Duggan, The Bushwackers and The Beverly Brothers. Gill and Hardy competed in a battle royal becoming the second version of The Executioners and took part in a 40-man battle royal won by Tatanka. Gill and Hardy then went back to their real names and began competing on \"Monday Night Raw\" as well as \"WWF Superstars\" against several other tag teams losing to the likes of The Quebecers and The Steiner Brothers. One night they fought as The Toxic Turtles (dressed up as the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles) and won a victory over jobbers, but the gimmick was cut off. The Executioners split in early 1994, and Hardy left the company on April 18. Gill then began competing as an enhancement talent, losing to the likes of Mr. Perfect, 1-2-3 Kid, Razor Ramon, Doink, The British Bulldog, Tatanka and Adam Bomb. He left the company soon after.\n\nIn 1998, Gill made his return to the World Wrestling Federation at Survivor Series as Mankind's mystery opponent. Vince McMahon seemingly facilitated Mankind's route to victory in a tournament for the vacant WWF Championship as he appeared to be McMahon's favorite to win. McMahon built up the suspense before the entrance by referring to Gill as a wrestler with an unmatched win/loss record. Although the statement was implied that Mankind's opponent won more than lost in his career, the exact opposite was true, and Gill was squashed by Mankind.\n\nHe later joined The J.O.B. Squad with Al Snow, Scorpio and Bob Holly. During this time, Gill became notable for \"ending Marc Mero's career\" when Mero challenged him to a match, announcing to the crowd that he would retire from wrestling if he could not beat Gill. Gill won the match with some help from the J.O.B. Squad, and Mero left the WWF, although he did not legit retire.\n\nOn November 17, 1998, Gill won the Light Heavyweight Championship after defeating Christian on \"Raw\". After successful defenses against Matt Hardy and Marc Mero, Gill was given his most notable gimmick: \"Gillberg,\" a parody of rival promotion World Championship Wrestling's top star Goldberg. When he became Gillberg, the original plan of the bookers was reputedly to have him lose 173 consecutive matches, parodying Goldberg's winning streak of 173 matches. The Gillberg character parodied numerous other aspects of Goldberg's character, such as his entrance being accompanied by the pre-recorded sound of a crowd chanting \"Gillberg\" (which was an allusion to WCW's alleged use of pre-recorded chants in Goldberg's usual entrance) and stage hands that would hold up sparklers (parodying Goldberg's pyrotechnics) and then spray the entrance way with fire extinguishers. He also had a dotted line \"tattoo\" on his right arm (parodying Goldberg's tribal tattoo) and would use the catchphrase \"Who's First?\" in reference not only to Goldberg's catchphrase \"Who's Next?\", but also to the fact that Gill would lose to each and every one of his opponents.\n\nGill made his Royal Rumble debut in 1999, but was immediately eliminated by Edge. Gill's only victory as Gillberg came on the February 8, 1999, edition of \"Raw\" when he defeated Goldust with help from former J.O.B. Squad member The Blue Meanie, who was feuding with Goldust at the time. He competed for the WWF Championship against Triple H in a losing effort on the August 31, 1999, edition of \"SmackDown!\".\n\nWhile he still came to the ring with the belt, the Light Heavyweight Championship was all but forgotten as Gill seldom defended the title on television or at house shows. After being off of WWF television for several months, Gill returned on the February 13, 2000, episode of \"Sunday Night Heat\" for one final match in order to lose the championship to the debuting Essa Rios. Upon losing the title, Gill's reign ended at 15 months, making him the longest reigning Light Heavyweight Champion in WWF history. After leaving the WWF, Gill continued to use the Gillberg gimmick on the independent circuit, most prominently for Maryland Championship Wrestling.\n\nWhen Goldberg came to WWE in 2003, his first feud was against The Rock, who on the April 21, 2003 episode of \"Raw\" brought in Gill, once again under his Gillberg gimmick, to mock Goldberg. After beating up The Rock's security guards, who were trying to apprehend him for interrupting a concert \"dedicated\" to him, Gillberg attacked Goldberg, which prompted Goldberg to begin choking him. The Rock then attacked Goldberg from behind, after which both Gillberg and The Rock quickly ran out of the arena to avoid further conflict.\n\nOn December 10, 2007, Gill, now sporting two new tattoos on his left deltoid, returned to WWE television under his Gillberg name and gimmick for the 15th Anniversary of \"Raw\". During the show, he participated in a 15-man battle royal against fourteen other former Raw wrestlers, but was the first man eliminated only a few seconds into the match by every other competitor.\n\nIn 2016, Gill returned to WWE, where he made a brief appearance on \"The Edge and Christian Show\". Gillberg made a surprise appearance on the February 13, 2017 episode of \"Raw\", coming to the ring in place of Goldberg before being attacked by Kevin Owens.\n\nOn February 28, 2018, Gill won the IWC High Stakes Championship from independent wrestler Bulk Nasty. He was later challenged by James Ellsworth for a title-match on March 17, which Gill lost. On April 1, 2018, Gill teamed with Ellsworth to win the ACW Tag Team Championships. On February 28, 2020, Gill wrestled his last match against Ellsworth at an Adrenaline Wrestling show, winning the match.\n\nGill is married and has two adult children and a granddaughter. Gill operated an independent wrestling school in Severn, Maryland named Gillberg's Pro Wrestling Academy that opened in July 2010.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2125921", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2125921", "title": "Come Clarity", "text": "Come Clarity\n\nCome Clarity is the eighth studio album by Swedish metal band In Flames, released in February 2006. It was originally going to be called \"Crawl Through Knives\" but was later changed to its current title.\n\nThe album features the artwork of Derek Hess, who is popular among metal bands and has produced artwork for Converge and Sepultura amongst others. Specifically the artwork of Sepultura's album \"Roorback\" has a lot of similarities.\n\nThe songs \"Take This Life\" and \"Come Clarity\" have music videos. \"Take This Life\" is also a playable track in the video game \"\".\n\nStylistically the album borrows from the band's earlier, heavier roots, with elements of the later style still present. It features the return of the guitar harmonies and solos of the band, and can be described as a combination of their older and newer sound.\n\nThe song \"Dead End\" is the fourth In Flames song to feature female vocals (the others are \"Everlost, Pt. 2\" from \"Lunar Strain\", \"Whoracle\" from \"Whoracle\" and \"Metaphor\" from \"Reroute to Remain\").\n\nThe album debuted at number 1 in Sweden and number 58 on the American \"Billboard\" 200; it sold almost 25,000 copies in the US in its first week, and 50,000 in its first month. Since its release, the album has sold more than 110,000 copies in the United States and over 400,000 copies worldwide.\n\nThe album won the award for \"Best Hard Rock Album\" at the 2007 Swedish \"Grammis\", over other nominated albums such as The Haunted's \"The Dead Eye\" and HammerFall's \"Threshold\".\n\n\"Come Clarity\" was named the best Swedish album of the past decade by readers of Swedish newspaper Aftonbladet.\n\n\"Come Clarity\" was intended for release during summer or early fall 2005, but got delayed.\n\nAlongside the standard version, a special plexiglass box, limited to 1000 copies, was also released. It features the album split onto 2 discs and includes a certificate picture on a foil, as well as a DVD. The DVD features the band playing the album in its entirety, except for the final track of the album. However, the audio is not actually live, and is actually a studio recording played over the video. The DVD also features a photo gallery of the recording sessions of \"Come Clarity\".\n\nThe drums, vocals, keys and programming were recorded at \"Dug Out Studio\" in Uppsala, and guitars and bass were recorded at \"The Room\" in Gothenburg. It was mixed and mastered at \"Tonteknik Recording\" in Umeå, Sweden.\n\nIn Flames\n\nAdditional musicians\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2125922", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2125922", "title": "List of Victoria Cross recipients of the Indian Army", "text": "List of Victoria Cross recipients of the Indian Army\n\nThe Victoria Cross (VC) was awarded to 153 members of the British Indian Army and civilians under its command, from 1857 until independence in 1947. The Victoria Cross is a military decoration awarded for valour \"in the face of the enemy\" to members of armed forces of some Commonwealth countries and previous British Empire territories. It takes precedence over all other Orders, decorations and medals. It may be awarded to a person of any rank in any service and to civilians under military command. The VC is traditionally presented to the recipient by the British monarch during an investiture at Buckingham Palace, though in a large number of cases this was not possible and it was presented in the field by a prominent civil or military official. The VC was introduced in Great Britain on 29 January 1856 by Queen Victoria to reward acts of valour during the Crimean War.\n\nIndian troops were not originally eligible for the VC, because since 1837 they had been eligible for the Indian Order of Merit—the oldest British gallantry award for general issue. When the VC was created, Indian troops were still controlled by the British East India Company, and did not come under Crown control until 1860. European officers and men serving with the East India Company were not eligible for the Indian Order of Merit; the VC was extended to cover them in October 1857. It was only at the end of the 19th century that calls for Indian troops to be awarded the VC intensified. Indian troops became eligible for the award in 1911. The first awards to Indian troops appeared in the \"London Gazette\" on 7 December 1914 to Darwan Singh Negi and Khudadad Khan. Negi was presented with the VC by King George V two days earlier, on 5 December 1914, during a visit to troops in France. He is one of a small number of soldiers presented with his award before it appeared in the \"London Gazette\".\n\nThere have been a total of 148 VC recipients who were serving with an Indian Army or Honourable East India Company (HEIC) unit. 63 VCs were awarded to British officers and men of the HEIC during the Anglo-Persian War (1856–1857) and the Indian Rebellion of 1857. 33 VCs were awarded for action in various campaigns between the rebellion in 1857 and the First World War. 18 VCs were awarded for action in the First World War, and 30 in the Second World War. In addition to these, 5 civilians under military command were awarded the VC.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2125925", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2125925", "title": "Walter Adams", "text": "Walter Adams\n\nWalter Adams may refer to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2125927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2125927", "title": "Hill equation (biochemistry)", "text": "Hill equation (biochemistry)\n\nIn biochemistry and pharmacology, the Hill equation refers to two closely related equations that reflect the binding of ligands to macromolecules, as a function of the ligand concentration. A ligand is \"a substance that forms a complex with a biomolecule to serve a biological purpose\" (ligand definition), and a macromolecule is a very large molecule, such as a protein, with a complex structure of components (macromolecule definition). Protein-ligand binding is an example of this kind of binding, which typically changes the structure of the target protein, thereby changing its function in a cell.\n\nThe distinction between the two Hill equations is whether they measure \"occupancy\" or \"response\". The Hill–Langmuir equation reflects the occupancy of macromolecules: the fraction that is saturated or bound by the ligand. This equation is formally equivalent to the Langmuir isotherm. Conversely, the Hill equation proper reflects the cellular or tissue response to the ligand: the physiological output of the system, such as muscle contraction. \n\nThe Hill–Langmuir equation was originally formulated by Archibald Hill in 1910 to describe the sigmoidal O binding curve of haemoglobin. \n\nThe binding of a ligand to a macromolecule is often enhanced if there are already other ligands present on the same macromolecule (this is known as cooperative binding). The Hill–Langmuir equation is useful for determining the degree of cooperativity of the ligand(s) binding to the enzyme or receptor. The Hill coefficient provides a way to quantify the degree of interaction between ligand binding sites.\n\nThe Hill equation (for response) is important in the construction of dose-response curves.\n\nThe Hill–Langmuir equation is a special case of a rectangular hyperbola and is commonly expressed in the following ways.\n\nwhere:\n\nIn pharmacology, formula_6 is often written as formula_7, where formula_8 is the ligand, equivalent to L, and formula_9 is the receptor. formula_6 can be expressed in terms of the total amount of receptor and ligand-bound receptor concentrations: formula_11. formula_3 is equal to the ratio of the dissociation rate of the ligand-receptor complex to its association rate (formula_13). Kd is the equilibrium constant for dissociation. formula_14 is defined so that formula_15, this is also known as the microscopic dissociation constant and is the ligand concentration occupying half of the binding sites. In recent literature, this constant is sometimes referred to as formula_16.\nThe Gaddum equation is a further generalisation of the Hill-equation, incorporating the presence of a reversible competitive antagonist. The Gaddum equation is derived similarly to the Hill-equation but with 2 equilibria: both the ligand with the receptor and the antagonist with the receptor. Hence, the Gaddum equation has 2 constants: the equilibrium constants of the ligand and that of the antagonist\n\nThe Hill plot is the rearrangement of the Hill–Langmuir Equation into a straight line.\n\nTaking the reciprocal of both sides of the Hill–Langmuir equation, rearranging, and inverting again yields: formula_17. Taking the logarithm of both sides of the equation leads to an alternative formulation of the Hill-Langmuir equation:\n\nThis last form of the Hill–Langmuir equation is advantageous because a plot of formula_19 versus formula_20 yields a linear plot, which is called a Hill plot. Because the slope of a Hill plot is equal to the Hill coefficient for the biochemical interaction, the slope is denoted by formula_21. A slope greater than one thus indicates positively cooperative binding between the receptor and the ligand, while a slope less than one indicates negatives cooperative binding.\n\nTransformations of equations into linear forms such as this were very useful before the ubiquity of computers, as they allowed researchers to determine parameters by fitting lines to data. However, these transformations affect how errors are propagated, which may result in undue weight to error in data points near 0 or 1. This impacts the parameters of linear regression lines fitted to the data. Furthermore, the advent of computers in experiments allows for more robust analysis with nonlinear regression.\n\nA distinction should be made between quantification of drugs binding to receptors and drugs producing responses. There may not necessarily be a linear relationship between the two values. In contrast to this article's previous definition of the Hill-Langmuir equation, the IUPHAR defines the Hill equation in terms of the tissue response formula_22, as\n\nformula_23\n\nwhere <chem>[A]</chem> is the drug concentration and formula_24 is the drug concentration that produces a 50% maximal response. Dissociation constants (in the previous section) relate to ligand binding, while formula_24 reflects tissue response.\n\nThis form of the equation can reflect tissue/cell/population responses to drugs and can be used to generate dose response curves. The relationship between formula_3 and EC50 may be quite complex as a biological response will be the sum of myriad factors; a drug will have a different biological effect if more receptors are present, regardless of its affinity.\n\nThe Del-Castillo Katz model is used to relate the Hill–Langmuir equation to receptor activation by including a second equilibrium of the ligand-bound receptor to an \"activated\" form of the ligand-bound receptor.\n\nStatistical analysis of response as a function of stimulus may be performed by regression methods such as the probit model or logit model, or other methods such as the Spearman–Karber method. Empirical models based on nonlinear regression are usually preferred over the use of some transformation of the data that linearizes the dose-response relationship.\n\nThe Hill coefficient is a measure of ultrasensitivity (i.e. how steep is the response curve).\n\nThe Hill coefficient, formula_5 or formula_21, may describe cooperativity (or possibly other biochemical properties, depending on the context in which the Hill–Langmuir equation is being used). When appropriate, the value of the Hill coefficient describes the cooperativity of ligand binding in the following way:\n\n\nThe Hill coefficient can be calculated in terms of potency as:\n\nwhere <chem>EC90</chem> and <chem>EC10</chem> are the input values needed to produce the 10% and 90% of the maximal response, respectively.\n\nThe Hill-Langmuir equation is derived similarly to the Michaelis Menten equation but incorporates the Hill coefficient. Consider a protein (formula_34), such as haemoglobin or a protein receptor, with formula_35 binding sites for ligands (formula_36). The binding of the ligands to the protein can be represented by the chemical equilibrium expression:\n\n</chem>,\n\nwhere formula_37 (forward rate, or the rate of association of the protein-ligand complex) and formula_38 (reverse rate, or the complex's rate of dissociation) are the reaction rate constants for the association of the ligands to the protein and their dissociation from the protein, respectively. From the law of mass action, which in turn may be derived from the principles of collision theory, the apparent dissociation constant formula_3, an equilibrium constant, is given by:\n\nAt the same time, formula_2, the ratio of the concentration of occupied receptor to total receptor concentration, is given by:\n\nBy using the expression obtained earlier for the dissociation constant, we can replace formula_43 with formula_44 to yield a simplified expression for formula_45:\n\nwhich is a common formulation of the Hill equation.\n\nAssuming that the protein receptor was initially completely free (unbound) at a concentration formula_47, then at any time, formula_48 and formula_49. Consequently, the Hill–Langmuir Equation is also commonly written as an expression for the concentration formula_50of bound protein:\n\nAll of these formulations assume that the protein has formula_35 sites to which ligands can bind. In practice, however, the Hill Coefficient formula_35 rarely provides an accurate approximation of the number of ligand binding sites on a protein. Consequently, it has been observed that the Hill coefficient should instead be interpreted as an \"interaction coefficient\" describing the cooperativity among ligand binding sites.\n\nThe Hill and Hill–Langmuir equations are used extensively in pharmacology to quantify the functional parameters of a drug and are also used in other areas of biochemistry.\n\nThe Hill equation can be used to describe dose-response relationships, for example ion channel open-probability (P-open) vs. ligand concentration.\n\nThe Hill–Langmuir equation can be applied in modelling the rate at which a gene product is produced when its parent gene is being regulated by transcription factors (e.g., activators and/or repressors). Doing so is appropriate when a gene is regulated by multiple binding sites for transcription factors, in which case the transcription factors may bind the DNA in a cooperative fashion.\n\nIf the production of protein from gene is up-regulated (activated) by a transcription factor , then the rate of production of protein can be modeled as a differential equation in terms of the concentration of activated protein:\n\nwhere is the maximal transcription rate of gene .\n\nLikewise, if the production of protein from gene is down-regulated (repressed) by a transcription factor , then the rate of production of protein can be modeled as a differential equation in terms of the concentration of activated protein:\n\nBecause of its assumption that ligand molecules bind to a receptor simultaneously, the Hill–Langmuir equation has been criticized as a physically unrealistic model. Moreover, the Hill coefficient should not be considered a reliable approximation of the number of cooperative ligand binding sites on a receptor except when the binding of the first and subsequent ligands results in extreme positive cooperativity.\n\nUnlike more complex models, the relatively simple Hill–Langmuir equation provides little insight into underlying physiological mechanisms of protein-ligand interactions. This simplicity, however, is what makes the Hill–Langmuir equation a useful empirical model, since its use requires little \"a priori\" knowledge about the properties of either the protein or ligand being studied. Nevertheless, other, more complex models of cooperative binding have been proposed. For more information and examples of such models, see Cooperative binding.\n\nGlobal sensitivity measure such as Hill coefficient do not characterise the local behaviours of the s-shaped curves. Instead, these features are well captured by the response coefficient measure.\n\nThere is a link between Hill Coefficient and Response coefficient, as follows. Altszyler et al. (2017) have shown that these ultrasensitivity measures can be linked.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2125933", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2125933", "title": "Arkel", "text": "Arkel\n\nArkel is a town in the province of South Holland, Netherlands. A part of the municipality of Molenlanden, it lies about 3 km north of Gorinchem. Arkel is a former municipality; in 1986 it became part of Giessenlanden.\n\nIn 2017, the village of Arkel had 3.445 inhabitants. The built-up area of the village was 0.42 km² and contained 1.125 residences.\nThe statistical area \"Arkel\", which also includes the surrounding countryside, has a population of around 3220. Though there are little places of cultural interest in Arkel, there is a 19th-century domed church and a 19th-century windmill. It is a birthplace of Frenkie de Jong who plays for Barça.\n\nAlthough nowadays a modest village, in the Middle Ages it was the origin of the renowned Lords of Arkel, who owned considerable territories including the town of Gorinchem.\n\nArkel is served by Arkel railway station. It is located north of the town.\n\n"}
{"id": "2125934", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2125934", "title": "Language Interface Pack", "text": "Language Interface Pack\n\nIn Microsoft terminology, a Language Interface Pack (LIP) is a skin for localizing a Windows operating system in languages such as Lithuanian, Serbian, Hindi, Marathi, Kannada, Tamil, and Thai. Based on Multilingual User Interface (MUI) \"technology\", a LIP also requires the software to have a base installed language and provides users with an approximately 80 percent localized user experience by translating a reduced set of user interface elements. Unlike MUI packs which are available only to Microsoft volume license customers and for specific SKUs of Windows Vista, a Language Interface Pack is available for free and can be installed on a licensed copy of Microsoft Windows or Office and a fixed \"base language\". In other words, if the desired additional language has incomplete localization, users may add it for free, while if the language has complete localization, the user must pay for it by licensing a premium version of Windows. (In Windows Vista and Windows 7, only the Enterprise and Ultimate editions are \"multilingual\".)\n\nTypically, a Language Interface Pack is designed for regional markets that do not have full MUI packs or fully localized versions of a product. It is an intermediate localized solution that enables computer users to adapt their software to display many commonly used features in their native language. Each new Language Interface Pack is built using the glossary created by the \"Community Glossary Project\" in cooperation with the local government, academia, and local linguistic experts.\n"}
{"id": "2125938", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2125938", "title": "Something Leather", "text": "Something Leather\n\nSomething Leather is a novel-in-stories by Alasdair Gray which was published in 1990. Its framing narrative is the story of June's initiation into sado-masochistic activities by the female operators of a leather clothing shop in Glasgow.\n\nThe four central characters are from different social groups: June works for the civil service; Donalda is a dressmaker, and Senga her employer; and Harry (Harriet) is an aristocratic English artist and dominatrix. The novel also features a large cast of Glaswegian minor characters across a broad social spectrum, some of the segments reworked from Gray's earlier broadcast material.\n\n\"Something Leather\" concludes with a section entitled \"Critic Fuel - An Epilogue\", in which Gray describes the circumstances surrounding the book's development and offers an extended ending. He comments in the Acknowledgements that the title made reviewers treat it as \"a sadomasochistic Lesbian adventure story\" (these events only take place in the framing Chapters 1 and 12) and that had he called it \"Glaswegians\" they might have paid more attention to the rest of the book. Indeed, when \"Something Leather\" was collected as part of \"Every Short Story 1951-2012\" (Canongate, 2012), the collection was grouped under the title \"Glaswegians\", and some of the stronger sadomasochistic elements were dropped.\n\nGray said that the novel was born out of an attempt to write a story about a woman (an idea he credits to Kathy Acker) since his previous books had been about \"men who found life a task they never doubted until an unexpected collision opened their eyes and changed their habits.\" Since this happens to June in \"Something Leather\", it can be read as a female equivalent to Gray's 1984 novel \"1982, Janine\".\n\nThere are many comparisons to be made between the two novels. The texts have similar multiple openings and conclusions in common with their intertext, \"Story of O\". Contrasts include Jock's lesbian fantasy in \"1982, Janine\" taking real form in \"Something Leather\", and apparently inconsequential details such as the prominence of white clothes in the former and black leathers in the latter.\n\n"}
{"id": "2125949", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2125949", "title": "Beesd", "text": "Beesd\n\nBeesd is a town in the Dutch province of Gelderland. It is a part of the municipality of Geldermalsen, and lies about 16 km west of Tiel. It is situated near the river Linge and has a railway station on the railway from Dordrecht to Geldermalsen.\n\nIn 2001, the town of Beesd had 3141 inhabitants. The built-up area of the town was 0.83 km², and contained 1185 residences.\nThe statistical area \"Beesd\", which also can include the peripheral parts of the village, as well as the surrounding countryside, has a population of around 3650. There is a restored windmill in the town, De Vrijheid.\n\nUntil 1978, Beesd was a separate municipality.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2125961", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2125961", "title": "Stephen Knight (author)", "text": "Stephen Knight (author)\n\nStephen Knight (26 September 1951 – 25 July 1985) was a British journalist and author. He is best remembered for the books \"\" (1976) and \"The Brotherhood\" (1984).\n\nBorn in Hainault in Essex as Stephen Victor Knight, he attended West Hatch Technical High School, at nearby Chigwell. He was not successful academically, and after leaving school at 16 Knight went to work as a salesman for the London Electricity Board in Chigwell. At 18 he got a job as a reporter on the \"Ilford Pictorial\" before moving to the \"Hornchurch Echo\".\n\nHis book \"Jack the Ripper: The Final Solution\" (1976) suggested that the Ripper murders were part of a conspiracy between Freemasons and the British Royal Family, a claim which is not accepted by historians. Nevertheless, the book became a bestseller, and was the inspiration for several works of fiction, among them the film \"Murder by Decree\" (1978) by Bob Clark and the graphic novel \"From Hell\" by Alan Moore and Eddie Campbell.\n\n\"The Brotherhood\" (1984) was published at a time when Freemasonry was coming under increasing scrutiny in the United Kingdom. Knight's last book before his death was \"The Killing of Justice Godfrey\", exploring the death of Edmund Berry Godfrey in 1678, which had caused widespread anti-Catholic sentiment in England.\n\nIn 1983 he became a religious follower of Bhagwan Shree Rajneesh and, as a part of this interest, took the name Swami Puja Debal. He began to experience epileptic seizures in 1977, and in 1980 was discovered to have a brain tumour while taking part in a documentary for the \"Horizon\" television series. The tumour was removed, but returned in 1984.\n\nStephen Knight died in July 1985 at the age of 33 while staying with friends at Carradale in Argyllshire. He was buried there.\n\nIn 1976 he married Margot Kenrick, who had two daughters, Natasha and Nicole, from a previous relationship. In the same year the couple had a daughter together, Nanouska Maria Knight. The couple later separated, and in November 1980 Knight announced that, when his divorce came through, he would marry Lesley Newson, a 28-year-old researcher on \"Horizon\". However, instead the couple later also separated. His partner during his last years was Barbara Mary Land.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2125964", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2125964", "title": "Bilthoven", "text": "Bilthoven\n\nBilthoven () is a village in the Dutch province of Utrecht. It is a part of the municipality of De Bilt. It has a railway station with connections to Utrecht, Amersfoort and Baarn. It is home to the Netherlands National Institute for Public Health and the Environment, RIVM; and to the Union Mundial pro Interlingua, UMI, which promotes Interlingua internationally.\n\nThe statistical area \"Bilthoven\", which also can include the surrounding countryside, has a population of around 17,560.\n\nThe history of the town goes back to 20 August 1843, the day when the Utrecht-Amersfoort railway track began operating. A station was placed at the junction of the track line with the Soestdijkseweg. Initially the Dutch railways did not plan a station on this spot.\n\nAround 1900, the first villas appeared round the new station. The train traffic to and from the new station increased strongly at the same time: in 1902, one could take the train in both directions 52 times per day. As a result of this rail connection with the city, and the fact that the land nearby was relatively cheap, the number of villas continued to increase rapidly.\n\nAt this time the name of the town was still Bilt-station, but since it was not just a station anymore, the name was changed during a Council meeting on the 23 May 1917. Several names were presented, among which Bilt-Buiten, the Biltwijk and the Leyen. Eventually the name Biltsche Duinen was chosen. However, this name was not accepted by the Dutch railway company. For this reason, on 11 October 1917 another Council meeting was dedicated to the naming of the village. At this Council meeting several names were discussed, such as Leyenhoven, Bilt-Hoog and the Bilthof. The majority of the Council eventually agreed to the name of Bilthoven (which is the plural of Bilthof), which was suggested by Council member Melchior.\n\nThree international peace groups were founded in Bilthoven in the aftermath of World War I: the International Fellowship of Reconciliation in 1919, Service Civil International in 1920, and War Resisters' International in 1921. The founding meetings of all three groups took place at the home of Kees and Betty Boeke.\n\nThe experimental school De Werkplaats Kindergemeenschap, founded by Kees Boeke, has been based in Bilthoven since 1926. The former Dutch Queen Beatrix went to this school.\n\n"}
{"id": "2125967", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2125967", "title": "Delden", "text": "Delden\n\nDelden is a town in the Dutch province of Overijssel and, since 2001, in the municipality of Hof van Twente.\n\nAlthough its population is small, it gained city rights in 1333. Castle Twickel is a famous landmark near Delden and the Baron van Heeckeren of Twickel built a watertower in Delden. While drilling for water, the Baron's men discovered salt, which started the salt industry in the region of Twente.\nIn 2013, the city had a population of 7,400 according to Statistics Netherlands. The town of Delden covers an area of 5.96 square kilometers.\n\nBefore it became a part of Hof van Twente in 2001, Delden consisted of two municipalities: Stad Delden (the city itself), and Ambt Delden (the surrounding countryside). These municipalities had existed since 1818, when the original municipality \"Delden\" was divided into two parts.\n\nThe town is served by Delden railway station on the line Zutphen-Hengelo.\n\n"}
{"id": "2125973", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2125973", "title": "Den Dolder", "text": "Den Dolder\n\nDen Dolder () is a town in the Dutch province of Utrecht. It is a part of the municipality of Zeist, and lies about 4 km northeast of Bilthoven. Den Dolder has a railway station on the route between Amersfoort and Utrecht and is best known for its mental institutions such as Dennendal and the Willem Arntz Hoeve. Den Dolder also houses the big Dutch sauce manufacturer Remia referring to Den Dolder as Holland's Heart of Sauces as is depicted on the factory's side and is visible from the train passing by.\n\nIn 2001, the town of Den Dolder had 2,884 inhabitants. The built-up area of the town was 0.8 km², and contained 1156 residences.\n\nThe town is served by Den Dolder railway station.\n"}
{"id": "2125978", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2125978", "title": "Hollandsche Rading", "text": "Hollandsche Rading\n\nHollandsche Rading is a town in the Dutch province of Utrecht. It is a part of the municipality of De Bilt, and lies about 5 km south of Hilversum. Hollandsche Rading has a railway station on the route between Utrecht and Hilversum.\n\nIn 2001, the town of Hollandsche Rading had 785 inhabitants. The built-up area of the town was 0.24 km², and contained 307 residences. Including both the village itself and the surrounding area, the neighbourhood \"Hollandsche Rading\" has about 1690 inhabitants.\n\nThe name means \"Border of Holland\": the village is located on the border between the provinces Utrecht and North Holland.\n"}
{"id": "2125986", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2125986", "title": "Lage Zwaluwe", "text": "Lage Zwaluwe\n\nLage Zwaluwe is a village in the municipality Drimmelen, North Brabant, the Netherlands. The Lage Zwaluwe railway station and the Moerdijk bridges lie to the west of the village.\n"}
{"id": "2125992", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2125992", "title": "Arne Friedrich", "text": "Arne Friedrich\n\nArne Friedrich () (born 29 May 1979) is a German football coach and former football defender. He is currently the Performance Manager of Hertha BSC.\n\nHe played 82 times for the German national team.\n\nHe is a very versatile player, playing full back, center back, and occasionally a midfield position. As of October 2011, Friedrich has represented his country on 82 occasions, scoring once. He participated in Euro 2004, World Cup 2006, Euro 2008 and the World Cup 2010.\n\nAs announced on 21 January 2013, Friedrich became a US permanent resident which allowed him to no longer occupy an international slot while playing for Major League Soccer clubs.\n\nIn the 2000–01 season, Friedrich signed his first professional contract. Hermann Gerland, head coach of Arminia Bielefeld at the time, scouted Friedrich while playing for Regionalliga club SC Verl. Because of his convincing performance, Gerland decided to bring Friedrich to Bielefeld, where he immediately became a regular starter.\n\nIn 2002, he accepted an offer from Hertha BSC. With the Berlin club, Friedrich won the DFB-Ligapokal that year, defeating FC Bayern Munich, Borussia Dortmund, and FC Schalke 04.\n\nIn 2004–05, Falko Götz named Friedrich captain, a role he kept for the remainder of his time at Hertha. He renewed his contract with Hertha twice which was due to run until 2012 with a performance-based option for an additional year. He made 231 matches in the German top-flight for the club from the capital.\n\nHowever, after Hertha's relegation in 2010, he left the club in a €2million transfer to VfL Wolfsburg, signing a three-year contract.\n\nOn 19 September 2011 he was released from his contract at Wolfsburg due to long term injury.\n\nIn March 2012, he signed with the Chicago Fire of Major League Soccer. Friedrich made his competitive debut for Chicago in a match against the Houston Dynamo on 16 April 2012. The game ended in a 1–1 draw. Friedrich scored his first MLS goal on 12 August 2012 in a match against Philadelphia Union. Friedrich was named the club's 2012 season's Defender of the Year. At the end of 2012 season, Friedrich extended his contract with Chicago Fire until the end of 2013. Due to recurring injuries, Friedrich did not appear in any matches in 2013.\n\nOn 23 June 2013, Friedrich announced his retirement from professional football.\n\nFriedrich played a total of five games for the German U-21 team, and once for the B-team known as \"Team 2006\".\n\nOn 21 August 2002, Friedrich made his debut for the senior team against Bulgaria with in a 2–2 draw in Sofia. His first major tournament for the national team was Euro 2004 where he appeared in all three group matches that saw the German team was eliminated. On 21 December 2004, Friedrich captained Germany in a 5–1 friendly win over Thailand in Bangkok. He has captained the team three more time since.\n\nIn 2005, Germany took part in the Confederations Cup, as upcoming World Cup hosts. Friedrich took turns with Andreas Hinkel on the right wing back position. The following year, he was part of the 23-man squad for the 2006 World Cup. Except the match for third place, which he missed due to an injury, Friedrich started all of Germany's games.\n\nAt Euro 2008, Friedrich was once again part of the German team, but was initially intended as a substitute. Following an injury to Marcell Jansen, he started the final group game and all three knock-out stage matches. The quarter-final was one of Friedrich's best international matches where he successfully shut down Portuguese star Cristiano Ronaldo.\n\nIn March 2009, German coach Joachim Löw explained that he now planned Friedrich as a centre back instead of the right wing back position.\n\nHe was part of Germany's squad in the 2010 World Cup in South Africa. After a Bastian Schweinsteiger solo run, he scored his very first international goal on his 77th appearance for Germany on 3 July 2010 in the 2010 World Cup 4–0 quarter-final win over Argentina. \n\nOn 28 August 2014 it was confirmed, that Friedrich was the new assistant coach of the German U18 national team. He left the position at the end of 2015. On 27 November 2019, Friedrich was hired as a performance manager at Hertha BSC under manager Jürgen Klinsmann, who was hired earlier on the same day.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2125996", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2125996", "title": "Lunteren", "text": "Lunteren\n\nLunteren is a town in Gelderland, the Netherlands. It has a railway station on the line between Amersfoort and Ede. \n\nIt is well known for three conference centres in the vicinity, including \"Het Bosgoed\", which mostly hosts academic conferences and \"De Werelt\" Congress Hotel.\n\nIt is also famous because the \"Geographical Center of the Netherlands\" is located northeast of the village, and because the National Socialist Movement in the Netherlands (\"NSB\") held their annual \"Hagespraken\" (propagandistic open-air meetings) there between 1936 and 1940. In 1938, the NSB built what is known as the \"Muur van Mussert\" (\"wall of Mussert\") there, which was planned as the first step in a large conglomeration of buildings and monuments for the party.\n\nLunteren was a separate municipality until 1818, when it was merged with Ede.\n\n"}
{"id": "2125999", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2125999", "title": "George Sargent", "text": "George Sargent\n\nGeorge Sargent may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2126008", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126008", "title": "Ecolab", "text": "Ecolab\n\nEcolab Inc., headquartered in St. Paul, Minnesota, is an American global provider of water, hygiene and energy technologies and services to the food, energy, healthcare, industrial and hospitality markets. It was founded as Economics Laboratory in 1923 by Merritt J. Osborn, and renamed \"Ecolab\" in 1986.\nMerritt J. \"M.J.\" Osborn founded Economics Laboratory in 1923 with the tagline \"Saving time, lightening labor and reducing costs to those we serve.\" The company's original product was Absorbit, a product designed to quickly clean carpets in hotel rooms. This was soon followed by Soilax, a dishwasher soap. During the 1930s, the company expanded throughout the United States and sales reached US$5.4 million by the end of 1940s. It acquired the Magnus Company in the early 1950s, which gave the company access to Magnus's industrial specialty businesses - including pulp and paper, metalworking, transportation, and petrochemical processing.\n\nIn the 1950s, international expansion of Economics Laboratory started, with the establishment of its first overseas subsidiary in Sweden in 1956. It became a publicly traded corporation in 1957, and continued to expand during the 1960s and 1970s. In 1979, it acquired Apollo Technologies, but in 1983 the acquired Apollo subsidiary was shut down. In 1984, Ecolab acquired pest elimination leader Lystads, Inc., of Grand Forks, North Dakota. This is the first of many regional pest service firms acquired to create a national pest elimination business.\n\nIn 1986, the company changed its name from Economics Laboratory to Ecolab Inc. and is listed on the New York Stock Exchange.\n\nIn 1987, the company formed a textile care division to serve commercial laundry customers that process at least 1 million pounds of linen a year.\n\nIn 1987, Ecolab purchased the lawncare servicer provider ChemLawn for US$376 million. It sold the acquisition in 1992 to ServiceMaster for US$103 million as it couldn't turn ChemLawn into a profitable business. Ecolab and the German fast-moving consumer goods firm Henkel KGaA formed a 50:50 European joint venture called 'Henkel-Ecolab' in mid-1991 to expand into European/Russian markets.\n\nEcolab continued to acquire companies in the 1990s, namely Kay Chemical (1993), Australia-based Gibson Chemical Industries Ltd (1997), and GCS Service Inc (1998). In 2001 it bought out its partner Henkel's 50% stake in the European joint venture, Henkel-Ecolab. Ecolab integrated the former Henkel-Ecolab into its existing global operations. As a legacy of the Henkel-Ecolab cooperation from 1991–2001, Henkel continued to hold a 29.5% stake in Ecolab Inc. after the sale of the joint venture.\n\nIn the mid-2000s, strategic acquisitions continued, and Ecolab diversified its portfolio of customer offerings by venturing into the food safety management business as well as a healthcare business unit. In 2005, it opened a new global research, development, and engineering center in Eagan, Minnesota.\n\nIn 2006, Ecolab won the Black Pearl Award for Corporate Excellence in Food Safety and Quality, presented by the International Association of Food Protection (IAFP).\n\nIn 2007, Ecolab acquired Microtek Medical Holdings, Inc., expanding its infection prevention expertise and offerings to hospitals and other healthcare facilities.\n\nIn 2008, Henkel sold all of the 73 million shares, i.e., nearly a 29.5% stake it held in Ecolab, ending the two-decade-long partnership. The same year, Ecolab established Zurich as its Europe, the Middle East and Africa headquarters.\n\nIn July 2011, Ecolab announced a merger with Nalco Holding Company, Inc., and in December 2011 Nalco became a wholly owned subsidiary of Ecolab Inc. after it completed its US$5.4 billion acquisition.\n\nIn May 2012, Microsoft co-founder Bill Gates, through his investment vehicles — Cascade Investment and the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation — increased his stake of 10.8% in Ecolab to 25%.\n\nIn August 2012, Ecolab opened its Taicang, China, manufacturing plant. The facility, one of the company's largest, helped expand Ecolab's presence in Greater China and was the company's first plant to recycle 100% of its wastewater.\n\nIn October 2012, Ecolab entered an agreement to acquire Champion Technologies. That purchase closed in April 2013.\n\nIn November 2014, Ecolab, working with TruCost, launched the Water Risk Monetizer. It provides industry an online, no-cost financial modeling tool to assess and monetize the risk of water scarcity to their operations.\n\nIn November 2015, for $40.5 million Ecolab acquired the U.S. operations of Charlotte, N.C.-based Swisher Hygiene which provides hygiene and sanitizing solutions for the foodservice, hospitality, retail and healthcare markets.\n\nIn July 2016, Ecolab made a minority investment in Aquatech International, LLC of an undisclosed amount.\n\nEcolab employs approximately 47,000 people, and operates in more than 170 countries. It is organized in the following geographical divisions:\n\n\nEcolab provides water, hygiene and energy technologies and services to the food, energy, healthcare, industrial and hospitality markets.\n\nThe company's food safety services provide consulting to restaurants, hospitals, food retailers and food & beverage manufacturing facilities. It is also a supplier of chemicals used by beef and poultry processors - to reduce pathogens, such as E. coli and salmonella - in uncooked beef and poultry.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2126010", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126010", "title": "Prometheism", "text": "Prometheism\n\nPrometheism or Prometheanism (Polish: \"Prometeizm\") was a political project initiated by Józef Piłsudski, statesman of the Second Polish Republic from 1918 to 1935. Its aim was to weaken the Russian Empire and its successor states, including the Soviet Union, by supporting nationalist independence movements among the major non-Russian peoples that lived within the borders of Russia and the Soviet Union.\n\nBetween the World Wars, Prometheism and Piłsudski's other concept, of an \"Intermarium federation\", constituted two complementary geopolitical strategies for him and for some of his political heirs.\n\nPiłsudski's elaboration of Prometheism had been aided by an intimate knowledge of the Russian Empire gained while exiled by its government to eastern Siberia. The term \"Prometheism\" was suggested by the Greek myth of Prometheus, whose gift of fire to mankind, in defiance of Zeus, came to symbolize enlightenment and resistance to despotic authority.\n\nA brief history of Poland's Promethean endeavor was set down on February 12, 1940, by Edmund Charaszkiewicz, a Polish military intelligence officer whose responsibilities from 1927 until the outbreak of World War II in Europe in September 1939 had included the coordination of Poland's Promethean program. Charaszkiewicz wrote his paper in Paris after escaping from a Poland overrun by Nazi Germany and the Soviet Union.\n\nA key excerpt from Piłsudski's 1904 memorandum declared:\n\nThe Promethean movement, according to Charaszkiewicz, took its genesis from a national renaissance that began in the late 19th century among many peoples of the Russian Empire. That renaissance stemmed from a social process that led in Russia to revolution. Nearly all the socialist parties created in the ethnically non-Russian communities assumed a national character and placed independence at the tops of their agendas: this was so in Poland, Ukraine, Finland, Latvia, Lithuania, Georgia and Azerbaijan. These socialist parties would take the lead in their respective peoples' independence movements. While all these countries harbored organizations of a purely national character that likewise championed independence, the socialist parties, precisely because they associated the fulfilment of their strivings for independence with the social movement in Russia, showed the greater dynamism. Ultimately the peoples of the Baltic Sea basin—Poland, Finland, Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania — won and, until World War II, all kept their independence. The peoples of the Black and Caspian Sea basins — Ukraine, Don Cossacks, Kuban, Crimea, Georgia, Azerbaijan, Armenia, Northern Caucasus — emancipated themselves politically in 1919–1921 but then lost their independence to Soviet Russia during the Russian Civil War.\n\nIn 1917–21, according to Charaszkiewicz, as the nations of the Baltic, Black and Caspian Sea basins were freeing themselves from Russia's tutelage, Poland was the only country that worked actively together with those peoples. In these efforts, Poland met with opposition from the western coalition; the latter backed the (anticommunist) \"White\" Russians in their endeavor to rebuild the erstwhile Russian Empire. At the same time, according to Charaszkiewicz, Germany, with her occupation forces, strengthened her influences in Lithuania and Latvia, manipulated Ukraine's Lt. Gen. Pavlo Skoropadsky toward Ukrainian federation with a possible future non-Bolshevik Russia, and attempted a German hegemony in the Caucasus against the political interests of Germany's ally, Turkey. Germany's true intentions were at last made manifest in the Treaty of Brest-Litovsk, concluded with the Bolsheviks in 1918.\n\nDuring Skoropadsky's period in power in Ukraine, Germany was at war with both Bolshevik and Imperial Russia. Germany did, however, have an alliance with the Cossack territories of Don and Kuban; these declared their independence from Russia, and Skoropadsky channeled German armaments aid to them. The western Allies, however, chiefly France and Britain, did not want to see Russia lose territory and, following Germany's collapse in 1918, forced Skoropadsky to propose Ukrainian federation with Russia — thereby causing his fall from power and eventual Bolshevik victory in Ukraine, much as also happened in Georgia and Azerbaijan.\n\nImmediately after the loss of independence by the peoples of the Black and Caspian Sea basins and the annexation of those lands in 1921 by Soviet Russia, Poland was the only country in Europe that gave material and moral support to the political aspirations of their Promethean (pro-independence) émigrés. Only after Hitler's accession to power (January 30, 1933), states Charaszkiewicz, would Germany begin showing a strong interest in the Promethean question. Likewise Japan and Italy evinced some interest, and France and Great Britain lent moral support. Nevertheless, German propaganda and competition with Poland here notwithstanding, Germany's approach departed from the basic ideological tenets of Prometheism; the German approach essentially constituted, in Charaszkiewicz's words, \"an elastic, opportunistic platform for diversion, amenable to exploitation for current German political purposes in any direction.\" He emphasizes that in this field there were never any organizational or ideological ties between Poland and Germany. The legitimate national representatives of the Promethean émigrés allied with Poland showed a marked political loyalty to Poland.\n\nThroughout the years 1918–39, according to Charaszkiewicz, the Polish Promethean leadership consistently observed several principles. The purpose of the Promethean enterprise was to liberate from imperialist Russia, of whatever political stripe, the peoples of the Baltic, Black and Caspian Sea basins and to create a series of independent states as a common defensive front against Russian aggression. Each Promethean party respected the political sovereignty of the others. Any disputes between Promethean parties were placed in abeyance pending the liberation of the several parties from Russia. By mutual consent of the Polish and Ukrainian Prometheans (if occasionally less than whole-heartedly on the Petlurists' part), largely Ukrainian-populated areas of southeastern Poland were treated as an internal Polish sphere of interests and were off-bounds to Ukrainian Promethean organizing.\n\nThe Polish Promethean leadership, writes Charaszkiewicz, regarded the other Promethean nationalities as equal partners in the common struggle against Russian imperialism. Contrary to what has sometimes been thought, according to Charaszkiewicz the Polish General Staff did not treat the various Promethean émigré communities merely as political instruments to be exploited for \"ad hoc\" purposes of diversion.\n\nPrometheism had no organizational or political backing in any Polish political party of the left, right or center. Within the Piłsudskiite camp [\"obóz Piłsudczyków\"] itself, Prometheism found many opponents. Paradoxically, among young people in Poland's National Democratic Party—arch-rivals of the Piłsudskiites [\"Piłsudczycy\"]—and some other opposition youth organizations, the Promethean question was spontaneously taken up and gained advocates.\n\nThe history of Poland's interwar collaboration with the \"Promethean peoples\" falls into five periods.\n\nIn the first period (1918–21), Poland established her new eastern boundaries in wars with Soviet Russia and Ukraine; her borders with Germany, in the Poznań and Silesian uprisings, and in plebiscite operations in Warmia and Mazury; and her southern borders in plebiscite operations and a brief war with Czechoslovakia over disputed areas of Cieszyn Silesia, Spisz and Orawa.\n\nIn the Baltic basin, Finland, Estonia, Lithuania and Latvia emerged as independent states. Poland was among the first countries to extend them recognition, although Polish-Lithuanian relations were strained following the Polish-Lithuanian War.\n\nIn the Black and Caspian Sea basins, this period saw the emancipation of Ukraine, Crimea, Georgia, Azerbaijan, Don, Kuban and Northern Caucasus. Signs of national renaissance also appeared in Idel-Ural and Turkestan; there, however, it was limited to the calling of \"National Assemblies.\"\n\nPoland's role in the Promethean process was marked by the conclusion of a Polish–Ukrainian political and military alliance (the Warsaw Agreement, April 1920) with Symon Petlura's Ukrainian People's Republic, Piłsudski's expedition to Kiev (begun April 25, 1920), the designation (February 1919) of Bohdan Kutylowski as Polish minister to the Ukrainian People's Republic, the accreditation of a Polish minister to Caucasus, the naming of a military mission to Caucasus, and the Crimean Republic's motion at the League of Nations (May 17, 1920) that Crimea be made a protectorate of Poland.\n\nMarshal Piłsudski's immediate collaborators in this period included Witold Jodko, Tytus Filipowicz, Gen. Julian Stachiewicz, Col. Walery Sławek, Col. Tadeusz Schaetzel, a Maj. Czarnecki, August Zaleski, Leon Wasilewski, Henryk Józewski, Juliusz Łukasiewicz, Tadeusz Hołówko, Marian Szumlakowski, Jan Dąbski, Mirosław Arciszewski, Maj. Wacław Jędrzejewicz and Roman Knoll.\n\nDuring Poland's second Promethean period (1921–23), after the Treaty of Riga that ended the Polish-Soviet War, Poland went forward with her independent life within established eastern borders alongside the Baltic states. The states of the Black and Caspian Sea basins, however, lost their independence, being absorbed by the Soviets. What Charaszkiewicz terms the \"legitimate\" governments and political representatives of these Promethean countries emigrated:\n\n\nDuring this period, Marshal Piłsudski still remained in power, first as Chief of State (\"Naczelnik Państwa\"), later transitionally as chief of the General Staff (\"Sztab Główny\").\nPromethean affairs now also involved the successive chiefs of the General Staff, Gen. Władysław Sikorski and Gen. Stanisław Haller, and the chief of the General Staff's Section II (\"Oddział II\": intelligence), Col. Ignacy Matuszewski.\n\nPoland worked together with Promethean political émigrés who were in official contact with Poland's Foreign Ministry, with Polish diplomatic offices in Istanbul, Bucharest, Prague, Tehran and Paris, and with the Polish General Staff. As early as 1922, the first group of Georgian officers, recommended by the Georgian government, were accepted into the Polish Army.\n\nIn the third period (1923–26), after Piłsudski had removed himself from power, successive Polish governments eliminated the Promethean question from their agendas. The Soviets realized Joseph Stalin's nationalities program in the Soviet Union's non-Russian areas by inaugurating the Autonomous National Republics, while suppressing the last impulses toward independence on the part of those Republics' populations.\n\nPolish contacts with the Promethean émigrés were continued, without the knowledge or consent of the Polish government: in military matters, by Col. Schaetzel, Maj. Czarnecki and Captain Henryk Suchanek-Suchecki, chief of the Nationalities Department (\"Wydział\") in the Ministry of Internal Affairs; and at the Foreign Ministry, by the chief of the Eastern Department, Juliusz Łukasiewicz. An exception to the Polish government's official attitude pertained to Georgian Prometheism, which enjoyed support with both the foreign minister, Aleksander Skrzyński, and the chief of the General Staff, Gen. Stanisław Haller.\n\nThe fourth period (1926–32), from Piłsudski's return to power in the May 1926 Coup to the conclusion of the 1932 Polish-Soviet Nonaggression Pact, was the period of the most determined, organized and active collaboration with Promethean organizations.\n\nIn 1927 the Promethean problem was given official organizational form at the Polish Foreign Ministry and General Staff. In the previous periods, Prometheism had been treated at various high echelons but had possessed no single official home. Now a close coordination was established between Poland's Foreign Ministry and General Staff, as politically representing the Promethean question, and with the ministries of Military Affairs and Internal Affairs, as indirectly involved with it (the Military Ministry, with foreign contract officers; the Internal Ministry, with internal Polish-Ukrainian affairs).\n\nImportant events in this period included:\n\n\n\nThis period saw two fundamental political events in Ukrainian Promethean affairs:\n\n\nThis period saw the following notable political events in Caucasus affairs:\n\nThe growing revolutionary ferment in the Caucasus, especially in Azerbaijan, collaboratively engaged all the Caucasus national elements.\n\n\nCharaszkiewicz notes the occurrence, in Crimean political actions, of \"Wallenrodism,\" revealed at the trial of Veli Ibrahim, who was sentenced to death by the Soviets. Likewise the trial of Soltanğäliev (a direct collaborator of Joseph Stalin's during Stalin's tenure as commissar for nationalities affairs) disclosed methods used by the Volga Tatars and the peoples of Turkestan in fighting the Soviet government.\n\nA successful campaign was waged that helped stimulate a separatist movement among many Cossack émigré groups. This injected a substantial political diversion into White Russian émigré ranks.\n\nThis Prometheist period also witnessed a development that was independent of the movement, but which would ultimately play a role in regard to it. There was heightened diversionary activity in Poland by the OUN (Organization of Ukrainian Nationalists), supported by both Germany and Czechoslovakia and even by Lithuania. There were many acts of expropriation and sabotage against the Polish community and government by members of OUN combat units in southeastern Poland. This in turn led to \"pacification\" operations by the Polish authorities against the Polish-Ukrainian community.\n\nThe pacifications, Charaszkiewicz emphasizes, were never discussed in advance with Polish Promethean officials. Those at the Foreign Ministry and at the General Staff were not pleased with these operations, which made Promethean activities that much more difficult.\n\nA greater shock to the Prometheists, Polish and Ukrainian, however, was the death of Tadeusz Hołówko, murdered by OUN members on August 29, 1931, at Truskawiec.\n\nCharaszkiewicz is far from blaming all of Poland's difficulties with her minorities, especially the Ukrainians (who in most of southeastern interwar Poland were the \"majority\"), on external, especially German, influences. He argues that Poland had \"no planned, consistent and constructive internal policy\" with regard to her minorities. This lack could not bode well for the Promethean effort, when every fifth Polish citizen (that is, six million people) were Ukrainian.\n\nMoreover, the Soviet Union sought to an equal degree to exploit Poland's internal disarray — indeed, in 1921–31, to a greater degree than the Germans. Soviet communist propaganda in Poland's Eastern Borderlands (\"Kresy Wschodnie\"), combined with a pro-Ukrainian Soviet attitude toward Soviet Ukraine, created strong pro-Soviet sentiment among Polish Ukrainians. This sentiment would persist until the subsequent mass Soviet resettlements, arrests, executions and famines of 1933–38.\n\nThe period 1926–32 was marked by the participation of a large number of Poles in the Promethean endeavor:\n\n\nAdditionally, thanks to Tadeusz Hołówko's exceptional leadership in Promethean matters, a number of Polish government ministers participated indirectly or directly: Walery Sławek, Aleksander Prystor, August Zaleski, Janusz Jędrzejewicz, Wacław Jędrzejewicz, Bronisław Pieracki, Adam Koc, Stefan Starzyński, Marian Zyndram-Kościałkowski.\n\nA separate category of Promethean ideological endeavor comprised the work of Adam Skwarczyński.\n\nIn this period (1926–32), favorable political circumstances within and without Poland, adequate financing and, above all, full mutual confidence among all the participants, led to an exceptional level of Promethean activity — in the conduct of propaganda within the Promethean countries, in the political efforts of the Promethean émigrés, and in propaganda outside Poland.\n\nRegular conferences were held, usually involving Tadeusz Hołówko, Brig. Gen. Julian Stachiewicz,\nCol. Tadeusz Schaetzel, Henryk Suchanek-Suchecki, Maj. Edmund Charaszkiewicz, and an official from the Foreign Ministry. Charaszkiewicz would present an extensive report on work accomplished, and this would be followed by discussion of various Promethean topics.\n\nThe Promethean project was entrusted to Office 2 only in late 1927 or perhaps in 1928. Before that, it had never been a domain of the Polish General Staff's diversion unit (Office A.1, later Office U); thus Charaszkiewicz's predecessor, Col. Puszczyński, had not been encumbered with this responsibility. Puszczyński, Charaszkiewicz explains, had not initially attached importance to Prometheism, due to an overoptimistic assessment of the new Soviet Union; but in time he came to support the Promethean concept.\n\nThe last, fifth period of prewar Polish Prometheism (1933–39) was, in Charaszkiewicz's words, one of \"seven lean years.\" A number of developments contributed to this:\n\n\nUntil Piłsudski's death in 1935, little changed in respect to personnel on the Polish Promethean side, apart from the official distancing of government leaders, especially in the Foreign Ministry, due to the concluded Polish-Soviet pact. With the shift in government leadership beginning in June 1935, there ensued a clear decline in Polish Promethean leadership. The \"group of colonels\" lost their influence; Col. Tadeusz Pełczyński took a much less active role; and his successor, Col. Marian Józef Smoleński (generally known as \"Józef Smoleński\"), and Charaszkiewicz's immediate superior, Col. Jan Kazimierz Ciastoń, did not embrace Prometheism. Tadeusz Kobylański, Col. Schaetzel's successor as chief of the Foreign Ministry's Eastern Department, though inclined to support Prometheism, lacked a deep enough political foundation and faced substantial financial impediments. The attitudes of Marshal Edward Rydz-Śmigły and the chief of the General Staff, Brigadier General Wacław Teofil Stachiewicz, remained to the last uncertain.\n\nThe Promethean agenda continued, during World War II, to interest other countries, including Germany (especially in regard to Ukraine), Finland (struggling with the Soviet Union), France and the Soviet Union's neighbor, Turkey.\n\nEdmund Charaszkiewicz concluded his February 12, 1940, Paris paper with the observation that \"Poland's turning away from these [Promethean] processes can in no way halt [them], while leaving us sidelined and exposing us to enormous losses that flow from the age-old principle that 'those who are absent, lose.' [Poland]'s central position in the Promethean chain dictates to us readiness and presence at any disintegrative processes in Russia, and a leading Polish participation at their accomplishment.\"\n\nAfter World War II, the Government of Poland was effectively a puppet state of the Soviet Union and was in no position to resume an acknowledged Promethean program. Despite this, the Polish people, through Solidarity, played a major role in the breakup of the Soviet Union. The 1991 disintegration of the Soviet Union largely vindicated the predictions of those Poles and others who had anticipated the event and, in some cases, had worked for it.\n\nOn November 22, 2007, at Tbilisi, Georgia, a statue of Prometheus was dedicated by Georgian President Mikheil Saakashvili and Polish President Lech Kaczyński. Erected in the land where, according to Greek myth, the Titan had been imprisoned and tortured by Zeus after stealing fire from Olympus and giving it to man, the statue celebrates the efforts of Poles and Georgians to achieve the independence of Georgia and of other peoples from the Russian Empire and its successor state, the Soviet Union.\n\n"}
{"id": "2126012", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126012", "title": "Oudenbosch", "text": "Oudenbosch\n\nOudenbosch () is a village in the municipality Halderberge in the west of the Dutch province North Brabant. Oudenbosch is well known for its 'Basiliek', a catholic church that is a smaller copy of St. Peter's Basilica in Rome.\n\nOudenbosch railway station is on the Dordrecht–Roosendaal line (completed in 1854).\n\nOudenbosch was a separate municipality until 1997, when it became part of the new municipality of Halderberge.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2126018", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126018", "title": "A. J. Davis", "text": "A. J. Davis\n\nA. J. Davis may refer to:\n"}
{"id": "2126021", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126021", "title": "George Sargent (golfer)", "text": "George Sargent (golfer)\n\nGeorge Jonathan Sargent (2 August 1882 – 18 June 1962) was an English professional golfer.\n\nSargent was born in Brockham, Surrey, England to William Henry Sargent and Amelia Jane Harkett. The family moved to Epsom when he was young and he began his golf career at age twelve at Epsom Downs Golf Club in his home county. in 1899 Sargent spent some time at Ganton Golf Club under Harry Vardon. He first made an impact in the 1901 Open Championship at Muirfield where we was in 6th place after the first round. Soon afterwards he became the professional at Dewsbury Golf Club. Later he moved to Canada, where he served as a professional at Royal Ottawa Golf Club and finished second in the 1908 Canadian Open. He married Beatrice Margaret Pearse (1886–1968) in 1907 and fathered eleven children.\n\nSargent won the 1909 U.S. Open at Englewood Golf Club in New Jersey. He set a new 72-hole scoring record for the tournament of 290. He played in sixteen U.S. Opens in total, and finished in the top-10 six times. He also won the 1912 Canadian Open and the 1918 Minnesota State Open.\n\nSargent became a member of the Professional Golfers' Association of America at its inception in 1916, and served as president for five years. He is credited with introducing the use of motion pictures to study the golf swing. He was head professional at Scioto Country Club in Columbus, Ohio, from 1912 to 1924, at Interlachen Country Club in Minneapolis, Minnesota, from 1924 to 1928, at the Chevy Chase Club from 1928 to 1932, and at East Lake Golf Club in Atlanta, Georgia, from 1932 until his retirement fifteen years later. He is a member of the Georgia Golf Hall of Fame, as are his sons Harold and Jack.\n\nNYF = Tournament not yet founded<br>\nNT = No tournament<br>\nWD = Withdrew<br>\nCUT = missed the half-way cut<br>\nR64, R32, R16, QF, SF = Round in which player lost in PGA Championship match play<br>\n\"T\" indicates a tie for a place\n\n"}
{"id": "2126025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126025", "title": "Atlantic wreckfish", "text": "Atlantic wreckfish\n\nThe Atlantic wreckfish, (\"Polyprion americanus\"), also known as the stone bass or bass groper, is a marine, bathydemersal, and oceanodromous ray-finned fish in the family Polyprionidae. It has a worldwide, if disjunct, distribution in the Atlantic, Pacific and Indian Oceans.\n\nThe Atlantic wreckfish is a large fish with a deep, robust body and a large head with a protruding lower jaw. The two dorsal fins are joined, the first has 11 spines with the final spine joined on to the second dorsal fin, which has 12 branched rays. The anal fin has a short base and has three robust spines. The caudal fin is broad and square. The body is covered with small, firmly attached scales which run up the base of the dorsal and anal fin. It has a large mouth and eyes. The preoperculum has a spiny margin while the operculum has a thick bony strut running horizontally at eye level which terminates in a spine. The back and flanks are dark brown in colour with darker spots and blotches fading to yellowish on the belly. They have also been described as being Wreckfish are bluish grey on the back with a paler silvery sheen on the underside. The fins are blackish brown. The maximum total length is with a maximum published weight of .\nThe Atlantic wreckfish has a disjunct world wide distribution. It is found in the eastern Atlantic Ocean from Norway to South Africa, into the Mediterranean and including the Macaronesian Islands and Tristan da Cunha. In the western Atlantic it is found off the eastern coast of North America from Newfoundland to North Carolina. It also occurs in the western South Atlantic off Argentina, Uruguay and southern Brazil, as well as the Falkland Islands. In the western Indian Ocean it occurs around Île Saint-Paul and Île Amsterdam and in the southwestern Pacific Ocean it is found around New Zealand. It is also found off southern Australia from just north of Perth, Western Australia to Fraser Island in Queensland, including Tasmania.\n\nAdult Atlantic wreckfish occur around in caves, over rocky substrates and areas with densely scattered boulders, natural reefs and shipwrecks, a habitat which has led to species' common name. The adults are deep water fishes which have been recorded at depths between . It is normally a solitary species but the adults gather to breed during the summer. The juveniles form shoals for protection from predators which swim and hunt small fish in mid-water. Once the attain a length of the become solitary and look for a territory on the bottom. It is thought that the Atlantic wreckfish can live for as much as ninety years. They feed mainly on bottom dwelling fish, squid and cuttlefish but they will also take crustaceans and octopuses. They are probably best described as opportunistic.\n\nThe Atlantic wreckfish is a commercially valuable species and is valued as a food fish in some parts of its range. Large wreckfish may be divided into steaks, while smaller fish are filleted or baked whole. In North and South America wreckfish are sold in frozen in supermarkets or grocery stores or marketed fresh from fish counters. They are caught in trawlers nets or by long lines and gill nets, or occasionally by small-scale fisheries which use rod and line. Overall the stock is assessed by the IUCN as data deficient but some stocks, such as the Mediterranean stock have been assessed as being at greater risk.\n"}
{"id": "2126026", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126026", "title": "Albany High School (New York)", "text": "Albany High School (New York)\n\nAlbany High School (AHS) in Albany, New York, United States, is a public high school with an enrollment of about 2,600 students for the 2017–18 school year. The school is part of the City School District of Albany. It opened on September 7, 1868, as the Albany Free Academy. Albany High has been located at 700 Washington Avenue since 1974.\n\nAlbany High School is an International Baccalaureate school with an Advanced Placement program. The school newspaper is \"The Nest\" (published online, it replaced the longtime print newspaper \"The Patroon\", in 2011), the literary magazine is \"Inkblot\", and the yearbook is \"Prisms\".\n\nAlbany High School is the only comprehensive public high school in the city. The school is divided into four themed learning communities known as academies. Those academies are Citizenship Academy, which focuses on critical thinking and economic skills; Discovery Academy, which focuses on the arts and communication; Innovation Academy, which focuses on science, technology, engineering, and math; and Leadership Academy, which focuses on the skills needed to lead the way to a better future. All students in the school are a member of one of the four academies. Albany High School also includes the Abrookin Career and Technical Education Center, which is located three blocks away from the main high school campus. Abrookin's programmatic offerings include career and technical education (CTE) pathways such as culinary arts, cosmetology, construction technology, automotive technology and health sciences, to name a few.\n\nThe High School opened on September 7, 1868, as the Albany Free Academy with 141 students. The school was housed in Van Vechten Hall at 119 State Street until May 4, 1876, when it was relocated to Eagle Street (where the Albany County Courthouse is now located). In 1913, the school was moved to a more central location between Washington and Western Avenues. This \"old\" Albany High School building still stands, and it housed Philip Schuyler Elementary School until 2004. Prior to 1974, Albany had two high schools, Albany High School and Philip Schuyler High School. That year, the institutions were merged to form the \"new\" Albany High, located at 700 Washington Avenue (the school's current location).\n\nPrior to 2006, the school had four cafeterias known as the Northeast, Northwest, Southeast, and Southwest cafeterias. The walls between the two sets of cafeterias were demolished to form two large cafeterias known as the North and South cafeterias.\n\nIn 2006, metal detectors were installed at student entrance points to the school because of fights that took place within the school. The metal detectors were donated by the Albany Police Department. All students now have to go through a security checkpoint upon entering the school.\n\nPrior to the 2011–12 school year, Albany High School was divided into two large administrative divisions known as \"North House\" and \"South House\". Each house had its own cafeteria and administrative offices. Some class assignments were determined by house and students were randomly assigned a house upon entry.\n\nIn 2011, the school established four themed learning communities known as academies (Citizenship Academy, Discovery Academy, Innovation Academy, and Leadership Academy). These four academies were established to provide students with extra support staff and allow students to experience a themed academic environment while still in high school. All of Albany High's students are assigned to one of the four academies. Citizenship and Innovation Academies share the former South House cafeteria while Discovery and Leadership Academies share the former North House Cafeteria. Elective courses are grouped based on a particular academy's theme; however, all students may take any elective within the school regardless of their academy. To encourage more students to attend the \"redesigned\" Albany High School, the school began to advertise itself in late 2010 by putting up advertisements at bus stops. The advertisements had photos of several students doing educational activities and had the slogan \"Four New Academies, One Great Education.\"\n\nIn November 2015, city voters defeated a $196 million plan to renovate and expand Albany High by a close vote of 5,794 to 5,897.\n\nAlbany High has a wide variety of academic programs, including a longstanding Advanced Placement program offering 19 courses. In 2005, AHS was accredited as an International Baccalaureate World School and introduced an IB Diploma Program, which consists of a series of college-level courses for juniors and seniors leading to an alternative diploma. Every year, several IB or AP students typically attend some of the nation's top-ranked universities, including those in the Ivy League. Albany High has made \"Newsweek\"'s list of America's Top Public High Schools on multiple occasions, most recently in 2010 (when it ranked 976). The ranking is based on the Challenge Index, which calculates the number of AP and IB exams taken at a school divided by the number of graduating seniors.\n\nMost academic courses are taught at Core, Regents, and Honors levels. Three foreign languages (Spanish, French, Chinese), are available. Within New York State, AHS was one of the first public schools outside of New York City to offer any form of Chinese as a foreign language. The school also has Senior Career Explorations (internships) in six areas and a Project Lead the Way engineering program. An annex, the Abrookin Vocation-Technical Center, offers many career and technical courses\n\nIn 2015 the New York State Education Department classified Albany High School as a \"Struggling School\" and placed it under the school receivership of the Superintendent of the City School District of Albany. If the school does not demonstrate improvement in student performance within two years an Independent Receiver will be appointed by the district to serve under contract to the State Education Commissioner, and the district will have no control over decisions affecting the school.\n\nAll students at Albany High are within one of four themed academies (Citizenship, Discovery, Innovation, and Leadership Academies). Students can apply to one of the academies through a lottery system several months in advance of an incoming school year. Students who don't apply before the deadline will be randomly assigned an academy upon entry. Many academic courses are group to a particular academy within the school; for example, the psychology courses are grouped to Leadership Academy. However, any student in the school can take any course regardless of his or her academy. The four academies are located in physical areas of the school.\n\nCitizenship Academy focuses on effective communications, critical thinking, and preparations for a global economy. Advanced mathematics electives are grouped to this academy. Other courses grouped to this academy include culinary arts, family and consumer sciences courses, and business courses. The motto of this academy is \"The future depends on what we do today.\" The color of this academy is green.\n\nDiscovery Academy focuses on the arts and communication. Advanced English electives are grouped to this academy. Other electives grouped to this academy include advanced art courses, theater/drama courses, and all music courses. The motto of this academy is \"Imagine the possibilities.\" Its color is purple.\n\nInnovation Academy focuses on science, technology, engineering, and math. Advanced science electives are grouped to this academy. Other electives grouped to this academy include all Project Lead the Way engineering courses. Innovation Academy hosts themed luncheons known as \"food for thought power lunches\". During these events, a technologist visits and talks with students about a certain topic in the science and technology field. The motto of this academy is \"Invent the future.\" Its color is red.\n\nLeadership Academy focuses on civic and social responsibilities. Advanced social studies courses are grouped to this academy. Other courses electives grouped to this academy include adolescent psychology and language courses. Leadership Academy hosts themed luncheons known as \"Lunch with A Leader\". During those events, a local leader such as a politician or philanthropist visits to talk about how he or she is making a difference in the world. Visitors to these events included Albany mayor Gerald Jennings and Miss New York 2011, Kaitlin Monte. The motto of this academy is \"Be the change you want to see in the world.\" Its color is blue.\n\nAlbany High School has a number of clubs; among the more active of these are the Falcon Council, the Albany Marching Falcons and Color Guard, Albany Falcons Winter Guard, Drama Club, Speech and Debate Team, FIRST Robotics, Inkblot (a literary club), Prisms (the yearbook club), NYODA Step Team, International Club, Key Club, Habitat for Humanity Club, Chess Club, Ski Club, Hike Club, Math Club, Art Club, Video Production Club, Jam Club (playing rock music), Captains' Club, Peace & Social Action Club, Anime Club, Fashion Club, Jewish Student Union, National Honor Society, Masterminds, Mock Trial, Gay/Straight Alliance, and Best Buddies. In addition, the school has a club for each of the four languages offered. In the 2011–2012 school year, a class of journalism students renamed and revamped the school paper \"The Patroon\" and created the student-run, web-based \"The Nest\". In December 2014 the City School District of Albany established a Junior Reserve Officers' Training Program (JROTC) at Albany High School named the Henry Johnson Battalion in honor of SGT Johnson. Currently the program enrolls over 100 cadets. In February 2017, the JROTC drill team was invited to compete in the official US Army Junior ROTC drill championships.\n\nAlbany High School's interscholastic athletics program is affiliated with the New York State Public High School Athletic Association (Section II). Albany High's student-athletes competed in the Big 10 Conference for many years until the conference disbanded following the 2013–14 school year. Fall interscholastic sports include American football, cross country, and soccer for men; cheerleading, volleyball, tennis, cross country, soccer and swimming/diving for women; and golf for men and women. Winter sports include swimming/diving and wrestling for men; cheerleading and step/drill for women; and basketball (which had its best seasons under great longtime coach Paul Lyons), bowling, and indoor track for men and women. Spring sports include baseball and tennis for men; softball and step/drill for women; and outdoor track for men and women. Many sports are played at both varsity and junior varsity levels, and intramural activities are also offered. Albany High School soccer team in 2007 after almost 25 years made it through the sectional to semi final beaten the power house in big ten LaSalle, beating Saratoga High School in the 2nd round and beating Colonie Central High in the quarter final but losing to Niskayuna High School in semi final. \nThen in 2013 Albany high set the bar higher when they defeated 3rd seed Bethlehem and 1st seed Shenendehowa to make it to the finals in sectionals but eventually losing to 2nd seed Guilderland.\n\nAlbany High's current location at 700 Washington Avenue, which opened in 1974. The school consists of three brick buildings connected by indoor pedestrian bridges. The largest of these, the academic building, contains the classrooms, cafeterias, and media center. Across from the academic structure are the physical education building (housing the gymnasiums, locker rooms, and HVAC equipment) and another building containing the main office, auditorium, and music classrooms. Three bridges on the second floor connect the buildings.\n\nThe academic building is the largest edifice on the Albany High School campus and the only one with three stories. The ground floor contains the two cafeterias (Citizenship/Innovation and Discovery/Leadership), kitchen, special education classrooms, technology classrooms, art studios, a recently opened school store known as \"Falcons Rock\", a Model U.N. room, a mock courtroom, various other classrooms, and even a credit union room known as the \"Falcon Branch\". The second floor is the main hub of the school because it is connected to the other two buildings by the pedestrian bridges. It contains the media center (the large school library housing over 26,000 books as well as PC desktop computers). The library was fully renovated in 2012. The second floor also contains the college center (a relatively new room with computers intended to be used by students to research colleges), and many classrooms. The third floor is entirely occupied by classrooms. All the science labs are located on this floor.\n\nThe dominant architectural feature of the rectangular building is its six towers, numbered one through six. Towers One, Two, and Three are on the west side, and Towers Four, Five, and Six are on the east side. The towers contain stairwells, restrooms, and assorted offices (Tower Two contains the school's elevator). They also have skylights above each stairwell. Students in Citizenship and Innovation Academies enter the school through Tower Six while students in Discovery and Leadership Academies enter through Tower Four.\n\nThe bulk of the Innovation Academy classrooms are located in the southern half of the first and second floors. The bulk of the Discovery Academy classrooms are located in the northern half of the second floor. The third floor of the academic building contains the bulk of the Leadership Academy and Citizenship Academy classrooms. The bulk of the Citizenship Academy classrooms are located in the southern half of the building and the bulk of the Leadership Academy are located in the northern half of the building. The four academies form academy wings painted their own distinct color (green for Citizenship Academy, gold for Discovery Academy, red for Innovation Academy, and blue for Leadership Academy) and has its own academy office and health office. The large guidance suite located in the Discovery Academy wing on the second floor provides all four academies with a set number of guidance counselors.\n\nRoom numbers in the academic building have three digits, with the first digit indicating the floor number. The other two digits depend on the side of the building, with the rooms of the northern half having odd numbers and the rooms of the Southern Half having even numbers. Rooms numbers increase as one goes towards the center of the building.\n\nThe physical education building contains the indoor athletic facilities. These include the main gymnasium (which can be divided into three smaller gyms using motorized curtains), \"Rubber Gym\" (a smaller gym named for its floor material), wrestling gym, dance studio, and six-lane swimming pool. The building also houses the male and female locker rooms, the athletic health office, the athletic director's office, and the Falcon Fitness Center, a recently renovated weight room. On the first floor of the two story building is the boiler room housing the school's heating equipment. The two air conditioning units are located on the roof.\n\nThe third building on the Albany High campus houses the auditorium, main offices, and music classrooms. The diamond shaped auditorium has red cushioned seats, a triangular stage, and a catwalk area which is accessible by ladder. Located on the ground floor, the music facilities include a rehearsal rooms, choir room, office, and several practice rooms. The auditorium building contains the main lobby and serves as an entrance for school visitors.\n\nThe courtyard is located between the three buildings. A brick and concrete space with small trees and many benches, it serves as an entrance place for students during the morning. Senior year students have the privilege of eating lunch here. The school's three walkway bridges pass over the courtyard. Its concrete pavement was resurfaced in 2011.\n\nThe Albany High campus contains athletic fields for soccer, baseball, American football, and softball. The school's running track was resurfaced in 2003. Albany High's varsity football, soccer and baseball teams play their games at nearby Bleecker Stadium.\n\nThe Abrookin Career and Technical Center (formerly known as Abrookin Vocational-Technical Center) is a disconnected building of Albany High School located three blocks north of the main campus at 99 Kent Street. The building offers many career and technical courses in fields such as construction, cooking, electricity, engineering, cosmetology, computers (including a Cisco networking academy), and even an emergency medical technician course. It also houses family and consumer sciences courses. Students can walk to Abrookin from the main campus for a 1 to 3 period-long class. It takes about eight minutes to walk from the main campus to Abrookin. The building opened in 1974 as the Albany Occupational Center. The building was later renamed after the late school board member Manny Abrookin (1922–1994).\n\nOf Albany High School's approximately 2,600 students, about 54% are African-American, 21% are White (non-Hispanic), 13% are Hispanic, 11% are Asian, and 1% are Native American or multiracial. The school has about 159 teachers and 49 other professional staff, with a student-to-teacher ratio of approximately 14:1.\nAlbany High enrolls students from more than 40 foreign nations.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2126029", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126029", "title": "Chikuzen, Fukuoka", "text": "Chikuzen, Fukuoka\n\nAs of March 31, 2017, the town has an estimated population of 29,617 and a density of 437 persons per km². The total area is 67.18 km².\n\nThe town was founded on March 22, 2005 by the merger of the towns of Miwa and Yasu, both from Asakura District.\n\n"}
{"id": "2126031", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126031", "title": "Bethpage State Park", "text": "Bethpage State Park\n\nBethpage State Park is a New York state park on the border of Nassau County and Suffolk County on Long Island. The park contains tennis courts, picnic and recreational areas and a polo field, but is best known for its five golf courses, including the Bethpage Black Course, which hosted the 2002 and 2009 U.S. Open Golf Championships and the 2019 PGA Championship.\n\nThe park is not located in Bethpage as its name suggests, but actually located almost entirely within the hamlet of Old Bethpage. With no post office in Old Bethpage at the time, the park has had a Farmingdale address since the day it opened in 1934 because the clubhouse is within the Farmingdale Postal District: https://www.zipmap.net/zips/11735.htm. The clubhouse is located next to Lenox Hills, a residential neighborhood in Farmingdale and is within Farmingdale School District #22: https://newyork.hometownlocator.com/schools/sorted-by-districts,n,farmingdale%20union%20free%20school%20district,i,3610980.cfm. \nThe Green course is adjacent to the Lenox Hills area, while the Yellow Course is adjacent to the part of Lenox Hills within Farmingdale Village and the part of Lenox Hills, unincorporated Farmingdale, just west of it along Merritts Road toward Bethpage. The Black Course is adjacent to the exclusive Melville Court development in East Farmingdale and the Old Bethpage industrial area. The Red Course is adjacent to Old Bethpage residential neighborhoods, while the Blue Course is closer to the community of Bethpage (formerly Central Park, pre-1936).\n\nBethpage State Park's name reflects the locality names that existed at the time of its creation. Old Bethpage was known as Bethpage prior to 1936, when the adjacent hamlet of Central Park changed its name to Bethpage. Following this name change, the hamlet originally called Bethpage resisted suggestions that it merge with the new Bethpage, and got approval from the post office to change its name to Old Bethpage, though it did not have its own post office until 1965. The parcel of the Quaker Bethpage Friends Meeting House, across from the Park entrance, is within Old Bethpage hamlet boundaries, but abuts residences within the Lenox Hills area of Farmingdale Village. These specific border circumstances clarify that the park has close ties to Farmingdale.\n\nIn 1912, Benjamin Franklin Yoakum, a wealthy railroad executive, acquired of land\nin what is now known as Old Bethpage, NY, a hamlet adjacent to the Village of Farmingdale. Yoakum hired Devereux Emmet to design and build an 18-hole golf course on the land, which opened for play in 1923, and which Yoakum leased to the private Lenox Hills Country Club.\nAt this time part of Youkum's estate was subdivided for residential use. This is the Old Lenox Hills neighborhood of Farmingdale Village.\n\nWhen Yoakum died in 1929, there was conflict over usage of the leased lands. The State of New York, under the auspices of the Long Island State Park Commission, expressed interest in obtaining the lands, and purchased an option on the property in 1931. New York was able to assume management of the Lenox Hills Country Club through a lease agreement with the private owners in 1932, however Bethpage State Park was not officially purchased by the state until May 1934. Jesse Merritt of Farmingdale, Nassau County Historian, had convinced Robert Moses to name the park \"Bethpage State Park\" after the tract of land purchased by his ancestor Thomas Powell in 1695 from three Native American tribes.\n\nThe original golf course became the Green Course; by 1936, three more courses opened, designed by A. W. Tillinghast under contract to the Park Commission; a fifth (the Yellow Course) was designed by Alfred Tull (formerly a business partner of Emmet), and opened in 1958. The park has picnic facilities, bridle paths, playing fields, a polo field, tennis courts, cross-country skiing trails, and hiking and biking trails including one leading south to Massapequa, but it is best known for its golf facilities.\n\nBethpage State Park also has a four kilometer and five kilometer cross country course.\n\nThe park has five eighteen-hole golf courses, named (in increasing order of difficulty) the Yellow, Green, Blue, Red, and Black Courses. In 2002 the Black Course became the first publicly owned and operated course to host the U.S. Open. The tournament was won by Tiger Woods, being the only golfer to score under par for the tournament. The Tournament was seen as one of the most difficult and exciting U.S. Opens in history, breaking attendance records and creating a boisterous atmosphere for the U.S. Open. Bethpage Black also hosted the 2009 U.S. Open, which was won by Lucas Glover.\n\nPrior to 2002, all U.S. Opens had been staged at private golf or country clubs or at privately owned resorts that, while open to the public, were very expensive for the public to play, with greens fees of several hundred dollars per round. The USGA's choice of Bethpage was seen as an egalitarian move; as of 2010, Bethpage Black's weekend price for 18 holes was $75 for New York State residents, and $150 for non-residents. There are a number of ways for golfers to secure a round on the always popular Black Course. To register for a tee time, guests must have their driver's license on file with the park's reservation system. Note that New York residents can reserve a tee time seven days in advance, while out-of-state residents can only reserve tee times starting at 7:00 pm Eastern Time two days before the intended date of play. Walk-ups are also accepted. Commonly, golfers wait in line in the parking lot overnight to secure walk-up tee times.\n\nThe logo for the entire golf complex is a profile of a boy caddie carrying a golf bag with two golf clubs sticking up from it. It is based on the images carved into the black exterior window shutters on its clubhouse.\n\nIn its July 2008 list of America's greatest golf courses, \"Golf Digest\" ranked Bethpage Black #26 overall, #6 in the state of New York, #6 of America's 50 toughest courses, and #5 in its list of America's greatest public golf courses. It is also the top-ranked course in the \"Golf Digest\" list that is operated by a governmental entity. The PGA lists Bethpage Black as one of the \"World's Most Beautiful Courses\".\n\nNote: The Barclays tournament was renamed The Northern Trust in 2017.\n\nThe Polo Grounds at Bethpage State Park offers a field with bleacher seating. The field was built in 1934 and has seen both high and medium goal polo. \"Polo at the Park\" is hosted by Country Farms Polo Club every Sunday from June through September. The 1994 U.S. Open Polo Championship was hosted by the Meadowbrook Polo Club and the finals were played at Bethpage State Park.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2126052", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126052", "title": "Lorena Ochoa", "text": "Lorena Ochoa\n\nLorena Ochoa Reyes (; born 15 November 1981) is a former Mexican professional golfer who played on the U.S.-based LPGA Tour from 2003 to 2010. She was the top-ranked female golfer in the world for 158 consecutive and total weeks (both are LPGA Tour records), from 23 April 2007 to her retirement in 2 May 2010, at the age of 28 years old. As the first Mexican golfer of either gender to be ranked number one in the world, she is considered the best Mexican golfer and the best Latin American female golfer of all time. Ochoa was inducted into the World Golf Hall of Fame in 2017.\n\nBorn and raised in Guadalajara, Ochoa was the third of four children of a real estate developer and an artist. She took up golf at the age of five, won her first state event at the age of six, and her first national event at seven.\n\nAn 11-year-old Ochoa approached the professional Rafael Alarcon, 1979 winner of the Canadian Amateur Championship, as he worked on his game at Guadalajara Country Club, where her family lived near the 10th tee. She asked him if he would help her with her game. Alarcon asked her what her goal was, \"She said she wanted to be the best player in the world.\"\n\nAs a junior, she captured 22 state events in Guadalajara and 44 national events in Mexico. She won five consecutive titles at the Junior World Golf Championships and in 2000 she enrolled at the University of Arizona in the U.S. on a golf scholarship, where she was a teammate of fellow freshman Natalie Gulbis. While a student in Tucson, Ochoa received regular tutoring and greatly improved her English by watching movies and reading magazines between practice and tournaments.\n\nShe was very successful in women's collegiate golf in the next two years, winning the NCAA Player of the Year Awards for 2001 and 2002, finishing runner-up at both the 2001 and 2002 NCAA National Championship and being named to the National Golf Coaches Association (NGCA) 2001 All-America First team. She won the 2001 Pac-10 Women's Golf Championships, was named Pac-10 Freshman/Newcomer of the Year 2001 and was All-Pac-10 First team in 2001 and 2002.\n\nIn her sophomore year she had eight tournament wins in ten events she entered and set an NCAA record with seven consecutive victories in her first seven events. She won the Golfstat Cup in both 2001 and 2002. The Cup is given to the player who has the best scoring average versus par with at least 20 full rounds played during a season. setting the single-season NCAA scoring average record as a freshman at 71.33 and beating her own record the next year by just over a stroke per round with a 70.13 average.\n\nIn November 2001, Ochoa was presented with Mexico's National Sports Award by Mexican President Vicente Fox. She was the youngest person and first golfer to receive Mexico's highest sporting accolade. In 2006, she was named NCAA Division I Women's Golf Most Outstanding Student Athlete, an award which was bestowed as part of the 25th Anniversary of Women's Championships celebration, taking into account outstanding performances over the past 25 years. She was the recipient of the 2003 Nancy Lopez Award, which is presented annually to the world's most outstanding female amateur golfer.\n\nNancy Lopez describes Ochoa off the golf course: \"When you meet her for the second time [...] she remembers not only your name, but also the slightest detail from the last time you spoke.\"\n\nOchoa left college after her second year to turn professional, then won three of ten events played on the 2002 Futures Tour, and topped its money list to earn membership on the LPGA Tour for the 2003 season. She was also Duramed FUTURES Tour Player of the Year.\n\nIn her rookie season on the LPGA Tour in 2003, she had eight top-10 finishes, including runner-up finishes at the Wegmans Rochester and Michelob Light Open at Kingsmill, ending the season as the Louise Suggs Rolex Rookie of the Year and ninth on the LPGA official money list. In 2004, she won her first two LPGA Tour titles: the Franklin American Mortgage Championship (where she became the first Mexican born player to win on the LPGA Tour) and the Wachovia LPGA Classic. That same year she placed in the top ten in three of the four major championships.\n\nIn 2005, Ochoa won the Wegmans Rochester LPGA. In 2006, her first round score of 62 in the Kraft Nabisco Championship tied the record for lowest score ever by a golfer, male or female, in any major tournament. Her playoff loss to Karrie Webb marked her best finish until 2007 in an LPGA major. By the end of the year she won six tournaments, topped the money list and claimed her first LPGA Tour Player of the Year award which goes to the player who gains the most points throughout the season based on a formula in which points are awarded for top-10 finishes and are doubled at the LPGA's four major championships and at the season-ending ADT Championship. She also won the LPGA Vare Trophy for lowest scoring average on the LPGA Tour.\n\nHer achievements were recognized outside the sport of golf when Ochoa won the 2006 Associated Press Female Athlete of the Year award and received the National Sports Prize for the second time.\n\nIn April 2007, Ochoa overtook Annika Sörenstam to become the world number one ranked golfer.\n\nIn August 2007, Ochoa won her first major championship at the historic home of golf, the Old Course at St Andrews, with a wire-to-wire win by four shots at the Women's British Open. She won the next two LPGA events, the CN Canadian Women's Open and the Safeway Classic, the first to win three consecutive events since Sörenstam in 2005.\n\nAlso in 2007, Ochoa became the first woman ever to earn more than $4,000,000 in a single season, surpassing Sörenstam's previous record of $2,863,904.\n\nIn April 2008, Ochoa won her second major championship, this time at the Kraft Nabisco Championship, becoming the first golfer to win consecutive LPGA majors since Sörenstam in 2005. She celebrated this victory in the traditional fashion for the Kraft Nabisco by jumping into the pond on the 18th green. The following week, she won the Corona Championship in her home country by 11 strokes. This gave her the final tournament win she needed to qualify for the World Golf Hall of Fame, although she cannot be inducted until she completes ten seasons on the LPGA Tour.\n\nOchoa was coached by Rafael Alarcon, a Mexican professional. Alarcon finished second in the 1976 Canadian Amateur Championship, won that title in 1979, then turned professional.\n\nOn 20 April 2010, Ochoa released a statement indicating her intent to retire from professional golf. At a press conference held in Mexico City on 23 April 2010, Ochoa said her last tournament would be the 2010 Tres Marias Championship to be played from 29 April through 2 May. She said that her career plan had always been to play for \"around ten years\" and to be the number 1 ranked player in the world. She also said: I just want to be honest with all of you. I went to Asia, and after two or three days of being in Thailand, it was really easy to me – it was really clear to see that I didn't want to be out there, you know. I just was thinking of other things. I wanted to get home. I wanted to start working on the foundation. I wanted to be here close to my family.\nOchoa said she would still maintain her membership in the LPGA and would play in the Lorena Ochoa Invitational and \"I'm going to leave the door open in case I want to come back in one or two years to play a U.S. Open or a Kraft Nabisco.\"\n\nOchoa made a limited return to competitive golf in 2012, having been invited by her sponsor, Lacoste, to compete in the Lacoste Ladies Open de France, an event on the Ladies European Tour. Ochoa finished the event in T22, 13 shots behind the winner Stacey Keating. Ochoa also announced she would compete in the 2012 edition of her own event, the Lorena Ochoa Invitational.\n\nIn November 2008, she became the host of a new annual LPGA event, the Lorena Ochoa Invitational, held at her original home course, Guadalajara Country Club. Proceeds from the tournament help support the Lorena Ochoa Foundation.\n\nLorena Ochoa's successes fuel the family business, the Ochoa Group in Guadalajara, managed by her brother Alejandro Ochoa.\n\nLorena Ochoa is represented by the Ochoa Sports Management, along with Alarcon and Sophia Sheridan, a Mexican golfer who plays on the LPGA's developmental tour. The Ochoas are confident the list will expand as they attempt to grow the game in Mexico through Ochoa Golf Academies, created by Lorena, Alejandro and Alarcon.\n\nOchoa Sports Management also operates the LPGA Corona Championship, an annual tour stop in Morelia, Mexico; and the Lorena Ochoa Invitational.\n\nThe Lorena Ochoa Foundation operates La Barranca, a primary school in Guadalajara with 250 underprivileged students and an innovative curriculum. In 2008, the foundation opened a high school with 21 freshmen students. The plan, according to foundation director Carmen Bolio, is to add a new class each year and then construct a high school building that's separate from the primary school. She became engaged to her boyfriend Andrés Conesa Labastida, CEO of Aeroméxico, and they married in December 2009. In April 2011, Ochoa announced she was pregnant with the couple's first child. As of mid-2017, she has 3 children.\n\nLPGA Tour playoff record (2–5)\nFutures Tour playoff record (0–1)\n\nLA = low amateur\nCUT = missed the half-way cut\nWD = withdrew\n\"T\" = tied\n\n\n<br>\n\n2001\n\n\n2002\n\n\n2003\n\n\n2006\n\n\n2007\n\n\n2008\n\n\n2009\n\n\n2011\n\n\nAmateur\n\nProfessional\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2126053", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126053", "title": "Schwechat", "text": "Schwechat\n\nSchwechat () is a town southeast of Vienna known for the Vienna International Airport and Schwechater beer. The city is home to the refineries of the Austrian national oil company OMV.\n\nSchwechat is named after the river Schwechat, which flows through the centre of town. The city subdivisions called Katastralgemeinde (Cadastre) are Kledering, Mannswörth, Rannersdorf and Schwechat.\n\nHome to the settlement Ala Nova of the Roman Empire, the city was first mentioned in a document in 1334. The meeting at Schwechat of Emperor Leopold I with Jan Sobieski in 1683, after the liberation of Vienna, is commemorated by an obelisk. The imperial troops defeated the Hungarian insurgents in a battle fought here in October 1848.\n\nIn 1724, a textile factory was established in Schwechat. Schwechat profited massively from the Austrian industrialisation wave of the 19th century, many of the companies established then still existing today (like the famous Dreher Brewery, founded in 1796 by Franz Anton Dreher the Younger). Schwechat became a city in 1924 and was incorporated into Vienna in 1938. The city's oil refinery was a bombing target of the Allied Oil Campaign of World War II, with the southern aviation plant complex of the Heinkel firm (Germany-based at Rostock-Schmarl as \"Heinkel-Nord\", the Schwechat offices/facility was called \"Heinkel-Süd\") also targeted in late 1943 and lasting through the spring of 1944.\n\nSchwechat became an independent city in 1954. Since 2017 it belongs to Bruck an der Leitha District because Wien-Umgebung was dissolved at the end of 2016.\n\nVienna International Airport, the headquarters of Austrian Airlines, and the headquarters of LaudaMotion are in the city of Schwechat.\n\nWhen Lauda Air was an independent airline, it had its corporate headquarters in Schwechat. Niki was also based in Schwechat.\nSchools include:\n\nPrimary schools:\n\nSecondary:\n\n\n\nSchwechat (as \"Megacity Schwechat\") plays an important role in the Austrian sci-fi movie .\n\n"}
{"id": "2126054", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126054", "title": "New York State Route 3", "text": "New York State Route 3\n\nNew York State Route 3 (NY 3) is a major east–west state highway in New York, in the United States, that connects central New York to the North Country region near the Canada–US border via Adirondack Park. The route extends for between its western terminus at an intersection with NY 104A in the Cayuga County town of Sterling and its eastern terminus at a junction with U.S. Route 9 (US 9) in the Clinton County city of Plattsburgh. NY 3 traverses eight counties and is a lakeside roadway from Mexico to Sackets Harbor, a mountainous route in Adirondack Park, and an urban arterial in Fulton, Watertown, and Plattsburgh.\n\nIn 1924, the segment of the Theodore Roosevelt International Highway within New York was designated NY 3. At that time, it spanned the full east–west length of the state, extending from the eastern bank of the Niagara River in North Tonawanda to the western edge of Lake Champlain in Plattsburgh; however, the routing through the North Country was significantly different at that time from its modern alignment. The route was moved onto its modern routing east of Watertown as part of the 1930 renumbering of state highways in New York; it was truncated to Sterling on its western end and rerouted to follow its current alignment from Sterling to Watertown roughly five years later.\n\nSince 1924, there have been 14 suffixed routes of NY 3, all designated between NY 3A and NY 3G. Of these, all but one only existed during the 1930s. The only active designation is NY 3A, which was assigned in the 1950s to an alternate route of NY 3 in Jefferson County.\n\nA substantial portion of NY 3 travels east–west across northern New York and passes through the northern part of the Adirondack Mountain Range. Much of this section of the highway is named as part of the Olympic Trail Scenic Byway.\nThe areas NY 3 passes through alternate between long stretches of rural area, consisting of a mix of open terrain and dispersed residences, and compact settlements containing concentrations of houses and businesses. NY 3 is classified mainly as a minor arterial road, the major exception being the section that is concurrent with NY 812, which is a principal arterial road. Most of the route is maintained by the New York State Department of Transportation. Exceptions are in the cities of Watertown and Plattsburgh, where at least part of the road is city-maintained. In Watertown, NY 3 is locally maintained from Massey Street (southbound US 11 junction) to the end of the NY 3/NY 12 overlap. The route is entirely city-maintained in Plattsburgh.\n\nNY 3 begins at an intersection with NY 104A in Sterling. NY 3 continues east to meet NY 104 in the center of Hannibal. From there, NY 3 progresses across Oswego County and passes Lake Neatahwanta prior to entering Fulton. Within Fulton, NY 3 intersects NY 48 on the west bank of the Oswego River before crossing the river and meeting NY 481 at the eastern bank. East of the city, NY 3 passes south of the Oswego County Airport as it heads to the northeast through Palermo. Upon intersecting NY 264, NY 3 becomes signed as a north–south highway instead of as an east–west route. It proceeds north to the village of Mexico, where it meets NY 104 once again. NY 3 and NY 104 overlap briefly through the western portion of the village before separating at the center of Mexico. While NY 104 heads east toward Williamstown, NY 3 heads north toward the hamlet of Texas.\n\nEast of Texas, NY 3 meets NY 104B near the Lake Ontario shoreline. Past NY 104B, NY 3 parallels both Interstate 81 (I-81) and US 11 as it heads along the shore of Lake Ontario. Near the Selkirk Shores State Park west of Pulaski, NY 3 intersects NY 13 adjacent to the mouth of the Salmon River. After crossing the Salmon River, NY 3 passes the Sandy Island Beach State Park before entering Jefferson County. At the county line, NY 3 becomes signed as an east–west highway once again. The route continues northward toward Ellisburg where it meets NY 193 at the entrance to Southwick Beach State Park northwest of the community. Past NY 193, NY 3 passes the lakeside at Westcott Beach State Park prior to entering the vicinity of Sackets Harbor. The route bypasses both Sackets Harbor and the Sackets Harbor Battlefield State Historic Site to the east before separating from Lake Ontario and proceeding eastward toward Watertown.\nWest of the city of Watertown, NY 3 intersects NY 180 southwest of the Watertown International Airport before connecting to I-81 by way of an interchange at the city line. NY 3 heads east into Watertown, intersecting with both US 11 and NY 12 at Massey Street. At this point, maintenance of NY 3 shifts from the state to the city of Watertown. The route overlaps NY 12 southbound and a short piece of US 11 northbound through downtown to Public Square, where NY 3 meets northbound NY 12. US 11 northbound leaves NY 3 here while the overlap between NY 3 and NY 12 continues eastward through Watertown. The concurrency ends near the eastern fringe of the city, where NY 3 leaves NY 12 and becomes state-maintained once more as it departs the city to the northeast.\n\nIn Black River, northeast of Watertown, NY 3 intersects NY 342 at the southwestern tip of the Fort Drum Military Reservation. NY 3 follows the southern edge of the base to Deferiet, where NY 3 turns south to follow the Black River while NY 3A continues along the border of Fort Drum. NY 3 follows the river to Carthage, where it overlaps NY 126 briefly before heading northeast to rejoin NY 3A at Fargo. NY 3 forms the southern boundary of the base from NY 3A east to just west of the Jefferson-Lewis County line; however, near Natural Bridge, the Fort Drum boundary heads due north before becoming delimited by the Indian River. NY 3, meanwhile, traverses the river and enters Lewis County.\nMidway between Natural Bridge and Harrisville, NY 3 intersects NY 812. NY 812 turns east onto NY 3, following NY 3 northeast into St. Lawrence County before splitting to the northwest between Harrisville and Pitcairn. Shortly after departing NY 812, NY 3 enters Adirondack Park. The route follows a largely east–west routing from its entry point to Tupper Lake, where it merges with NY 30. Near Upper Saranac Lake, NY 30 heads north toward Malone as NY 3 continues northeast through nearby Saranac Lake toward Plattsburgh.\n\nWest of Plattsburgh, NY 3 exits the park and encounters NY 374 via an interchange. Past the exit, the two routes follow parallel routings before separating outside of Plattsburgh. NY 3 curves to the southeast toward the former Clinton County Airport, where it meets NY 22B just west of what was once the main entrance to the airport. From NY 22B, NY 3 continues east to the outskirts of Plattsburgh, where it meets the Adirondack Northway (I-87). Past I-87, NY 3 follows Cornelia Street into the city, where it becomes city-maintained. Within Plattsburgh, NY 3 intersects NY 22 before terminating at US 9 just west of Lake Champlain.\n\nNY 3 originally followed a vastly different alignment than it does today. In 1924, it was assigned to the New York portion of the Theodore Roosevelt International Highway, an auto trail that extended from Portland, Maine, to Portland, Oregon. In New York, it connected North Tonawanda (near Niagara Falls) in the west to Plattsburgh in the east via Rochester and Watertown. NY 3 began at what is now the intersection of US 62 and NY 425 and followed modern NY 425 north through Cambria Station to Cambria Center, from where the highway continued to Lockport on Lower Mountain, Gothic Hill, and Upper Mountain Roads and modern NY 31. It remained on current NY 31 through the city and mostly followed that route's modern alignment across western New York to the city of Rochester. The most significant exception to this was between Lockport and Gasport, where NY 3 veered south by way of modern NY 77 and County Route 10 (CR 10) to serve the hamlet of McNalls.\nWithin Rochester, NY 3 remained on the current alignment of NY 31 to what is now the intersection of Lyell Avenue and Broad Street. Here, NY 3 broke from modern NY 31 and continued east on Lyell Avenue to State Street. NY 3 then followed State Street, Main Street, and East Avenue (modern NY 96) through downtown before turning north onto Culver Road in the eastern portion of the city. The route remained on Culver Road to Empire Boulevard, where it turned east toward Irondequoit. Once in Irondequoit, it followed what is now NY 404 around the southern extent of Irondequoit Bay to Webster. NY 3 was realigned by 1930 to stay on East Avenue to Winton Road near the eastern edge of the city. Here, the route turned north, following Winton Road through eastern Rochester to Irondequoit, where it rejoined its previous routing at Empire Boulevard.\n\nPast Webster, NY 3 followed Ridge Road through Wayne County to Red Creek, where it continued northeast on what is now NY 370 and NY 104A through Red Creek, Fair Haven, and Sterling to western Oswego County. At Southwest Oswego, NY 3 joined the routing of modern NY 104 through Oswego and Mexico to Maple View. Between Maple View and Watertown, NY 3 overlapped NY 2 along what is now US 11. Past Watertown, NY 3 was routed along today's NY 12F and NY 180 to Limerick, where it continued north to Clayton by way of modern NY 12E. East of Clayton, it followed modern NY 12, NY 26 and CR 192 through Alexandria Bay to Redwood. From there, it utilized the current alignment of NY 37 up through Ogdensburg (by way of Main and Ford Streets in the city) before continuing to Waddington on Van Rensselaer Road. NY 3 went east from here along a now-dismantled riverside highway and Town Line Road to Massena, where it was routed on modern NY 37B.\nEast of Massena, NY 3 followed a series of local roads that parallel the modern divided highway section of NY 37 to Rooseveltown, at which point it rejoined current NY 37. The highway remained on today's NY 37 up to CR 51 northwest of Malone, where NY 3 continued south on CR 51 to modern US 11 (then NY 2) west of the village. After briefly overlapping NY 2 (current US 11) into Malone, NY 3 turned south onto what is now NY 30, following the route to Paul Smiths. Past Paul Smiths, NY 3 continued east along the length of modern NY 86 to Jay, overlapping then-NY 10 from Harrietstown to Saranac Lake in between. Lastly, from Jay to Plattsburgh, NY 3 overlapped then-NY 6 along what is now NY 9N and US 9.\n\nIn the late 1920s, NY 3 was rerouted near Malone to follow modern NY 37 into the village, largely eliminating the overlap with US 11. Additionally, NY 3 was truncated to Jay on its eastern end. The former alignment to Plattsburgh became part of NY 9W from Jay to Keeseville and US 9 from Keeseville to Plattsburgh. A more substantial realignment of NY 3 took place as part of the 1930 renumbering of state highways in New York. NY 3 now began concurrent with NY 31A at then-NY 18 (now NY 104) in Niagara Falls. The routes proceeded eastward along modern NY 31 to Sanborn, where NY 31A turned north to follow what is now NY 429 back to then-NY 31. NY 3 continued on current NY 31 for another two miles to Shawnee, where it met its original alignment to North Tonawanda, which became part of NY 425 in the renumbering. At this point, NY 3 rejoined its previous alignment, overlapping NY 425 up to Cambria–Wilson Road, where that route split off and continued to the north.\n\nNY 3 was realigned in two locations between Lockport and Rochester. One was just east of Lockport, where it was straightened out to go directly from Lockport to Gasport on modern NY 31, bypassing McNalls. The other was between Middleport and Medina, where it was realigned to use modern NY 31E instead. NY 3's old alignment from Lockport to Gasport via McNalls became part of NY 77 west of McNalls and NY 359 north of the community. Its former routing between Middleport and Medina became NY 3A.\nThe most significant realignment that occurred at this time was in the North Country, where NY 3 was shifted onto its current alignment between Watertown and Plattsburgh. From Tupper Lake east to Plattsburgh, most of what became NY 3 was previously part of NY 10. The NY 10 designation remained in place from Tupper Lake east to Upper Saranac Lake, forming an overlap with NY 3; however, it was completely replaced by NY 3 from Saranac Lake east. Between Upper Saranac Lake and Saranac Lake, the routing of NY 3 was previously unnumbered, as was the routing from Watertown to Tupper Lake.\n\nAt least four suffixed routes of NY 3 were created as part of the 1930 renumbering. The longest of the four initial routes was New York State Route 3C, an alternate route of NY 3 that generally followed NY 3's current alignment between Sterling and Watertown. Another was assigned when NY 3 was rerouted between Deferiet and Wilna to bypass Carthage to the north on modern NY 3A. The portion of NY 3's former routing from Deferiet to Carthage became NY 3F. NY 3 was shifted southward onto modern NY 31 between Shawnee and Lockport . The realignment eliminated overlaps with NY 425 and NY 93, the latter of which had used NY 3's former routing east of Cambria–Wilson Road since it was assigned as part of the 1930 renumbering. Even though all of the former routing had a designation, it was also designated as NY 3A anyway. As a result, the designations of all of NY 3's spur routes were increased by one letter, meaning the existing NY 3A became NY 3B, NY 3C became New York State Route 3D, and so forth.\nUS 104 was assigned , extending from Niagara Falls to Maple View mostly by way of then-NY 31 west of Rochester and NY 3 from Rochester to Maple View. As a result, NY 31 was shifted southward onto the alignment of NY 3 from Niagara Falls to Rochester while NY 3 was realigned south of Watertown to follow the routing of NY 3D to a new terminus in Sterling. Every spur route of NY 3 was eliminated at this time except for NY 3G. The alignments of NY 3 and NY 3G between Deferiet and Wilna were flipped .\n\nAt some point between 1935 and 1938, NY 3 was truncated further to end at its junction with US 104 in Hannibal. It was moved another half-mile (0.8 km) to the east in the early 1960s following the completion of the super two bypass carrying US 104 around the eastern edge of the village. NY 3 continued to end at the super two until the early 1980s. On April 1, 1980, ownership and maintenance of NY 3's former routing between the Cayuga County line and NY 104 was transferred from Oswego County to the state of New York. One year later, on April 1, 1981, the state assumed ownership and maintenance of the Cayuga County portion from that county. Both transactions were part of larger highway maintenance swaps between the state and the two counties. NY 3 was reextended westward to NY 104A following the second swap.\n\nFrom Sandy Creek to Henderson, NY 3C (later NY 3D) was routed on Weaver Road, CR 121, NY 193, CR 78, NY 178, and CR 123. A new lakeside highway between Sandy Creek and the modern junction of NY 3 and NY 193 was opened to traffic as a realignment of NY 3D. An extension of the roadway north to Henderson was completed by the following year. To the southwest in Oswego County, NY 3 was originally routed on modern CR 3 between Hannibal and Fulton and on Hannibal and Oneida Streets through the city of Fulton. The modern arterial through the city was constructed while the Hannibal–Fulton highway was built in the mid-1960s.\n\nNY 3 has had 14 suffixed routes over the years; however, all of them except for one only existed during the 1930s. The only active designation is NY 3A, which is currently assigned to an alternate route of NY 3 in Jefferson County.\n\nAt least four suffixed routes of NY 3 were created as part of the 1930 renumbering of state highways in New York. Two more were assigned by the following year. All of these were renumbered .\n\n\nAll the routes below except for the current NY 3A were assigned .\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2126080", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126080", "title": "Torun (disambiguation)", "text": "Torun (disambiguation)\n\nToruń is a city in Poland.\n\nTorun or Toruń may also refer to:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2126088", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126088", "title": "The Death of Britain?", "text": "The Death of Britain?\n\nThe Death of Britain is a 1999 book by John Redwood in which he explores the constitutional crises facing Britain via reforms implemented by the incumbent Labour government, such as devolution and House of Lords reform.\n\n"}
{"id": "2126093", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126093", "title": "Ai Miyazato", "text": "Ai Miyazato\n\nMiyazato was born in Higashi, Okinawa, Japan. As an amateur in 2003, she won a professional event on the LPGA of Japan Tour – the Dunlop Ladies Open in Miyagi Prefecture, where she was attending high school at the time.\n\nIn her 2004 rookie season on the JLPGA Tour she won five tournaments. In February 2005, she represented Japan along with Rui Kitada and won the inaugural Women's World Cup of Golf. In 2005, she won six events on the JLPGA tour, and was the #2 ranked player on the JLPGA Tour behind Yuri Fudoh.\n\nIn winning the Japan Open Championship at age 20 in 2005, Miyazato became the youngest player on the JLPGA Tour to win a major. Furthering the notion that Miyazato revived the JLPGA Tour after the retirement of Ayako Okamoto, over 32,000 spectators, the largest gallery ever to attend a JLPGA event, witnessed the final round.\n\nAt the LPGA Qualifying Tournament in Florida in December 2005, Miyazato easily secured her tour card for the 2006 season. She was under-par in four of the five rounds, and was 12 strokes ahead of the closest competitor, which set a record for the largest margin of victory. Back in Japan, on 15 December, she played the opening rounds of the Okinawa Open, becoming the first Japanese woman to compete in a domestic men's professional event, although she failed to make the cut for the final rounds.\n\nIn her fourth season on the LPGA Tour in 2009, Miyazato earned her first win at the Evian Masters in France, defeating Sophie Gustafson at the first hole of a sudden-death playoff.\n\nIn 2010, she won four of the first nine official tournaments on the LPGA Tour and on 21 June rose to number 1 in the Women's World Golf Rankings. She held the spot for only one week and was replaced by Cristie Kerr who held the spot for three weeks, before Miyazato regained the spot again on 19 July, by a narrow margin of 0.0006 average points.\n\nIn August, Miyazato won for the fifth time in 2010 at the Safeway Classic in Oregon, with a two-stroke victory over Kerr and Na Yeon Choi. She regained the top spot in the world rankings, which had been briefly retaken by Kerr, but then gave it up to Kerr on 25 October.\n\nIn 2011, Miyazato won the Order of Merit on the Ladies European Tour (LET), despite only playing in two events on that tour, the co-sponsored events with the LPGA. The LET has no minimum tournament requirements for membership and her second win at the Evian Masters, whose purse is much larger than most LET events, earned her enough to top the list.\n\nIn April 2012, Miyazato won her eighth LPGA event at the inaugural LPGA Lotte Championship in Hawaii, four strokes ahead of runners-up Azahara Muñoz and Meena Lee.\n\nShe has endorsements deals with Suntory, Bridgestone Corporation, Japan Airlines, Oakley, Honda, Hisamitsu, Mitsubishi Electric and NTT Docomo.\n\nHer older brothers, Kiyoshi Miyazato and Yūsaku Miyazato are also professional golfers. She is not related to fellow Japanese LPGA Tour player Mika Miyazato.\n\nOn 27 May 2017, Kyodo News Agency reported that Miyazato would retire at the end of the season. Her last tournament was the 2017 Evian Championship.\n\nMiyazato is the first golfer to have achieved the world number one ranking without ever winning a major. Her best finish was third three times.\n\nLPGA Tour playoff record (1–0)\nTournament in bold denotes major championships in JLPGA Tour.\n\n\n\"Results not in chronological order before 2015.\"\n\n^ The Evian Championship was added as a major in 2013\n\nCUT = missed the half-way cut<br>\n\"T\" = tied\n\n\n<nowiki>*</nowiki>\n\nPosition in Women's World Golf Rankings at the end of each calendar year.\n^ Miyazato was last ranked on 25 September 2017. She dropped from the ranking following her retirement.\n\nAmateur\n\nProfessional\n\n"}
{"id": "2126097", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126097", "title": "Detailed logarithmic timeline", "text": "Detailed logarithmic timeline\n\nThis timeline shows the whole history of the universe, the Earth, and mankind in one table. Each row is defined in \"years ago\", that is, years before the present date, with the earliest times at the top of the chart. In each table cell on the right, references to events or notable people are given, more or less in chronological order within the cell.\n\nEach row corresponds to a change in log(time before present) (that is, the logarithm of the time before the present) of about 0.1 (using base 10 logarithm). The dividing points are taken from the R′′20 Renard numbers. Thus each row represent about 21% of the time from its beginning until the present.\n\nThe table is divided into sections with subtitles. Note that each such section contains about 68% of all the time from the beginning of the section until now.\n\nA logarithmic timeline can also be devised for events which should occur in the future, barring unforeseen circumstances and assuming that we can extrapolate into the future based on our science.\n\n"}
{"id": "2126098", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126098", "title": "Our Currency, Our Country", "text": "Our Currency, Our Country\n\nOur Currency, Our Country: The Dangers of European Monetary Union is a 1996 book by British Conservative politician John Redwood. In the book, he argues that the European single currency would be a bad idea for the United Kingdom for political, economic and legal reasons.\n"}
{"id": "2126104", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126104", "title": "Shingo Katayama", "text": "Shingo Katayama\n\nShingo Katayama (, born 31 January 1973) is a Japanese golfer.\n\nKatayama was born in Chikusei, Ibaraki Prefecture. He turned professional in 1995 and has played full-time on the Japan Golf Tour since 1997. He topped the Japan Golf Tour money list five times: 2000, 2004, 2005, 2006, and 2008. He has won 31 tournaments on the Japan Golf Tour, ranking sixth on the career wins list and ranking second on the career money list with over 1.9 billion ¥.\n\nKatayama has played in several major championships and World Golf Championships events, and his most notable achievement outside Japan is his tied fourth-place finish at the 2001 PGA Championship. He played the 3rd round with the champion David Toms. He was called \"Cowboy Shingo\" due to his distinctive cowboy-style hat. He has featured in the top thirty of the Official World Golf Rankings. Placing fourth with a 10-under par at the 2009 Masters, he tied Toshimitsu Izawa (2001) for the best showing of a Japanese golfer at the tournament.\n\n\nJapan Golf Tour playoff record (5–3)\n\nCUT = missed the half-way cut<br>\n\"T\" = tied\n\n\nCUT = missed the halfway cut<br>\n\"T\" indicates a tie for a place\n\nQF, R16, R32, R64 = Round in which player lost in match play<br>\n\"T\" = tied<br>\nNote that the HSBC Champions did not become a WGC event until 2009.\n\nAmateur\n\nProfessional\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2126110", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126110", "title": "A History Maker", "text": "A History Maker\n\nA History Maker is a novel by Alasdair Gray first published in 1994. The sources of the novel are to be found in a play by Gray in the 1970s which was titled \"The History Maker\" (note the definite article). The novel was described in the \"Daily Telegraph\" as \"Sir Walter Scott meets Rollerball\" and is set in the future in the Scottish borders, when society is matriarchal and its male members amuse themselves with fighting battles as a spectator sport.\n\nLike Gray's \"Poor Things\" the novel takes the form of documentation written by the characters themselves in order to record their experiences for posterity: a Prologue and notes (which make up almost a third of the total text) by \"the hero's mother\", and the central portion of the book, which is a third person narrative written by its protagonist, Wat Dryhope. Wat finds himself dissatisfied with the lack of purpose in a life in which everything is provided by powerplants, bypassing any need for manual labour. He develops an unhealthy interest in the ancient history of twentieth-century wars and dictatorships when men's struggles had a purpose, leaving himself vulnerable to exploitation to a plot to destroy his world's way of life.\n"}
{"id": "2126111", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126111", "title": "Pierre Fulke", "text": "Pierre Fulke\n\nPierre Olof Fulke (born 21 February 1971) is a Swedish professional golfer who played on the European Tour.\n\nFulke was born in Nyköping. He turned professional in 1989.\n\nIn 1991 and 1992, Fulke played on the second tier Challenge Tour, winning twice in the latter year to qualify for membership of the main tour.\n\nThe first of Fulke's three European Tour wins came at the 1999 Lancome Trophy. His most successful season was 2000, when he won the Scottish PGA Championship and the Volvo Masters and finished 12th on the European Tour Order of Merit. During this period he featured in the top 50 of the Official World Golf Rankings. He was also a member of the European team at the 2002 Ryder Cup.\n\nIn 2004, Fulke slipped to 134th place on the Order of Merit, but he retained his tour card for 2005 thanks to a five-year exemption for his Volvo Masters victory. In 2005, he recovered some of his form and finished 49th on the Order of Merit. He missed the majority of the 2006 season through injury and in 2007 he announced that he was retiring from tournament golf to concentrate on golf course design.\n\n\nCUT = missed the half-way cut<br>\nWD = Withdrew<br>\n\"T\" = tied<br>\n\n\nCancelled due to 9/11<br>\n\n\"T\" = Tied<br>\nNT = No tournament\n\nAmateur\n\nProfessional\n\n"}
{"id": "2126119", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126119", "title": "Geographical Names Board of New South Wales", "text": "Geographical Names Board of New South Wales\n\nThe Geographical Names Board of New South Wales, a statutory authority of the Department of Customer Service in the Government of New South Wales, is the official body for naming and recording details of places and geographical names in the state of New South Wales, Australia.\n\nWhilst the board is an independent body, it is responsible to the General Manager of Land and Property Information, currently Des Mooney (presently Chairman of the board); who reports to the Director General of the Department of Finance and Services, currently Michael Coutts-Trotter. Both the General Manager for Land and Property Information and the Director General of the Department report to the Minister for Finance and Services, currently Greg Pearce.\n\nThe board was established in 1966 pursuant to the \"Geographical Names Act 1966\".\n\nThe board consists of nine members, four of which are those people who hold the office of, or are a respective nominee of:\nThe other members are nominated by:\n\nThe \"Geographical Names Act, 1966\", empowers the board to assign names to places, to investigate and determine the form, spelling, meaning, pronunciation, origin and history of any geographical name and the application of such name with regard to position, extent or otherwise.\n\nA place is described in the Act as \"any geographical or topographical feature or any district, division, locality, region, city, town, village, settlement or railway station or any other place within the territories and waters of the State of New South Wales but does not include any road, any local government area, urban area, county or district under the Local Government Act, electoral district or subdivision, or any school\". The Act also specifies the procedures for formalising names.\n\nIn recent years the board has been given the power to preserve and promote Aboriginal languages and acknowledge Aboriginal culture through place naming in NSW. The board does this by preferencing traditional Aboriginal place names or names with Aboriginal origin wherever it can. The board is dedicated to restoring traditional Aboriginal names to features with introduced names through its dual naming policy and recognising important traditional Aboriginal placenames alongside longstanding introduced names.\n\nThe board's policy mirrors the United States Board on Geographic Names in that it seeks to eliminate possessive names from all place names in NSW. Roads called Smith's Road are changed to Smiths Road or Smith Road.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2126123", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126123", "title": "Louis H. Wilson Jr.", "text": "Louis H. Wilson Jr.\n\nLouis Hugh Wilson Jr. (February 11, 1920 – June 21, 2005) was a general in the United States Marine Corps and a World War II recipient of the Medal of Honor for his actions during the Battle of Guam. He served as the 26th commandant of the Marine Corps from 1975 until his retirement from the Marine Corps in 1979, after 38 years of service.\n\nWilson was born in Brandon, Mississippi, on February 11, 1920. He earned a Bachelor of Arts degree in 1941 from Millsaps College, Jackson, Mississippi, where he participated in football and track. Wilson was also an active member of the Alpha Iota chapter of Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity, initiated on February 23, 1939.\n\nWilson enlisted in the Marine Corps Reserve in May 1941 and was commissioned a second lieutenant in November of that year. After attending officers' basic training, he was assigned to the 9th Marine Regiment at Marine Corps Base, San Diego, California.\n\nWilson was deployed to the Pacific theater with the 9th Marines in February 1943, making stops at Guadalcanal, Efate, and Bougainville. He was promoted to captain in April 1943. During the Battle of Guam on July 25–26, 1944, while commanding Company F, 2nd Battalion, 9th Marines, Wilson earned the nation's highest honor for heroism in combat, the Medal of Honor, when he and his company repelled and destroyed a numerically superior enemy force. Because of wounds received, he was evacuated to the United States Naval Hospital, San Diego, where he remained until October 16, 1944.\n\nWilson returned to duty as commanding officer, Company D, Marine Barracks, Camp Pendleton, California. In December 1944, he was transferred to Washington, D.C., where he served as detachment commander at the Marine Barracks. While in Washington, he was presented the Medal of Honor by President Harry S. Truman. He was promoted to major in March 1945.\n\nFrom June 1946 until August 1951, Wilson had consecutive tours as dean and assistant director, Marine Corps Institute; aide-de-camp to the commanding general, Fleet Marine Force (FMF), Pacific; and officer in charge, District Headquarters Recruiting Station, New York City.\n\nPromoted to lieutenant colonel in November 1951, while stationed at Quantico, Virginia, Wilson served consecutively as commanding officer of The Basic School's 1st Training Battalion; commanding officer of Camp Barrett; and executive officer of The Basic School. He completed the Officer's Senior Course in August 1954.\n\nAfter a brief tour as a senior school instructor, Marine Corps Schools, Quantico, Wilson departed for Korea to serve as assistant G-3, 1st Marine Division. In August 1955, he returned to the United States with the 1st Division, and was appointed commanding officer, 2nd Battalion, 5th Marines, 1st Marine Division. In March 1956, Wilson was assigned to Headquarters Marine Corps (HQMC), serving two years as head, Operations Section, G-3 Division. He then returned to Quantico, first as commanding officer of the Test and Training Regiment, and later as commanding officer of The Basic School.\n\nIn June 1962, after graduation from the National War College, Wilson was assigned as joint plans coordinator to the deputy chief of staff (plans and programs), HQMC.\n\nWilson transferred to the 1st Marine Division and deployed with the division in August 1965, stopping at Okinawa before going to Vietnam. As assistant chief of staff, G-3, 1st Marine Division, he was awarded the Legion of Merit and the Republic of Vietnam Cross of Gallantry with Gold Star.\n\nUpon his return to the United States in August 1966, Wilson assumed command of the 6th Marine Corps District, Atlanta, Georgia. Promoted to brigadier general in November 1966, he was assigned to HQMC in January 1967, as legislative assistant to the commandant of the Marine Corps until July 1968. He then served as chief of staff, Headquarters, Fleet Marine Force, Pacific, until March 1970, earning a second Legion of Merit.\n\nWilson was advanced to the grade of major general in March 1970 and assumed command of I Marine Amphibious Force, 3rd Marine Division on Okinawa, where he was awarded a third Legion of Merit for his service.\n\nIn April 1971, Wilson returned to Quantico for duty as deputy for education/director, Education Center, Marine Corps Development and Education Command. He was promoted to lieutenant general in August 1972 and on September 1, 1972, assumed command of Fleet Marine Force, Pacific. During that tour, Wilson was presented the Korean Order of National Security Merit, Guk-Seon Medal, 2d Class and the Philippine Legion of Honor (Degree of Commander) for his service to those countries.\n\nWilson was promoted to general on July 1, 1975, when he assumed the office of Commandant of the Marine Corps. As commandant, Wilson repeatedly stressed modernization of the post-Vietnam Marine Corps. He insisted on force readiness, responsiveness, and mobility by maintaining fast-moving, hard-hitting expeditionary units, each consisting of a single integrated system of modern ground- and air-delivered firepower, tactical mobility, and electronic countermeasures. Wilson was the first Marine Corps commandant to serve full-time on the Joint Chiefs of Staff.\n\nWilson was the recipient of the following awards:\n\nThe President of the United States takes pleasure in presenting the MEDAL OF HONOR to\n\nCAPTAIN LOUIS H. WILSON, JR.\nUNITED STATES MARINE CORPS\n\nfor service as set forth in the following CITATION:\n\nWilson retired on June 30, 1979, and returned to his home in Mississippi. For \"exceptionally distinguished service\" during his four-year tenure as commandant, and his contributions as a member of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, he received the Defense Distinguished Service Medal (first oak leaf cluster), upon retirement.\n\nWilson died at his home in Birmingham, Alabama, on June 21, 2005. As with all former Marine Corps commandants, in accordance with Article 1288 of Navy Regulations, all ships and stations of the Department of the Navy flew the national flag at half-mast from the time of Wilson's death until sunset of the date of interment. Wilson was buried with full military honors in Arlington National Cemetery on July 19, 2005.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2126128", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126128", "title": "City School District of Albany", "text": "City School District of Albany\n\nThe City School District of Albany (also known as the Albany City School District) is the public school district of Albany, New York. The district is an independent public entity. It is governed by the City School District of Albany Board of Education, whose members are elected in non-partisan elections for staggered, four-year terms. The board selects a superintendent, who is the district's chief administrative official. The district's offices are located in the Old Albany Academy Building at Academy Park. It publishes a seasonal newsletter called \"Capital Education\".\n\nThe district has eleven elementary schools, four middle schools, one comprehensive high school, and several other programs of various types, including alternative-education programs in grades 7-12 at the Tony Clement Center for Education, and the Albany International Center, which serves English-language learners in grades 6-12. As of December 23, 2016, enrollment was 9635 students.\n\n\n\n\nThere are seven board members, elected in May in conjunction the annual school budget vote. Board members serve staggered four-year terms, which expire on June 30. Officers are elected by the members. Current board members, as of February 2020:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2126129", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126129", "title": "Federalism in Australia", "text": "Federalism in Australia\n\nFederalism was adopted, as a constitutional principle, in Australia on 1 January 1901 – the date upon which the six self-governing Australian Colonies of New South Wales, Queensland, South Australia, Tasmania, Victoria, and Western Australia federated, formally constituting the Commonwealth of Australia. It remains a federation of those six \"original States\" under the Constitution of Australia.\n\nAustralia is the sixth oldest surviving federation in the world after the United States (1789), Mexico (1824), Switzerland (1848), Canada (1867), and Brazil (1891).\n\nRelatively few changes have been made in terms of the formal (written) constitution since Australian federation occurred; in practice, however, the way the federal system functions has changed enormously. The most significant respect in which it has changed is in the degree to which the Commonwealth government has assumed a position of dominance.\n\nInstigated by Henry Parkes' Tenterfield Oration of 24 October 1889, the Australian Colonies conducted a series of constitutional conventions through the 1890s. These culminated in a draft Constitution that was put to popular vote in the individual colonies, and eventually approved by the electors, after a final round of changes met the higher threshold of support required in New South Wales. It was then passed into law by the Imperial Parliament in Britain as the \"Commonwealth of Australia Constitution Act 1900\", finalising the process of the Federation of Australia.\n\nThe rather desultory way in which federation proceeded reflected the absence of compelling urgency. The colonies saw some advantage in removing tariff barriers to inter-colonial trade and commerce, having a greater strategic presence, and gaining access to investment capital at lower rates; individually, though, none of these represented a driving force. Taken together with the emergence for the first time of a distinct sense of Australian national identity, however, they were collectively sufficient. This lack of urgency was also reflected in their desire to create a minimally-centralised union.\n\nIn its design, Australia's federal system was modelled closely on the American federal system. This included: enumeration of the powers of parliament (s. 51) and not those of the States, with the States being assigned a broad 'residual' power instead (s. 108); a 'supremacy' clause (s. 109); strong bicameralism, with a Senate in which the States are equally represented notwithstanding great disparities in population (s. 7); the division of senators into different cohorts on alternating electoral cycles (s. 13); the establishment of a supreme court empowered to declare actions of either level of government unconstitutional, the High Court of Australia (s. 71); and a complex two-step amending procedure (s. 128).\n\nSince federation, the balance of power between levels of government has shifted substantially from the founders' vision. The shift has transferred power from State governments to the Commonwealth government. While voters have generally rejected proposals to enhance the Commonwealth's authority through constitutional amendment, the High Court has obliged, with generous interpretation of the Commonwealth's enumerated powers. A major factor has been the way the Commonwealth government has monopolised access to the main revenue sources.\n\nFor the first two decades, Australian federalism stayed reasonably true to the \"co-ordinate\" vision of the framers. In co-ordinate federalism, the Commonwealth and the States were both financially and politically independent within their own spheres of responsibility. This was reinforced by the High Court, which in a number of decisions in those early years rejected Commonwealth government attempts to extend its authority into areas of State jurisdiction.\n\nA factor in the expansion of Commonwealth powers Australia's involvement in the First World War. The turning point really came, though, with the High Court's decision in the 1920 Engineers Case, Amalgamated Society of Engineers v Adelaide Steamship Co Ltd, repudiating its early doctrines that had protected the co-ordinate model and the place of the States in the federation.\n\nA system of co-operative federalism began to emerge in the 1920s and 1930s in response to both internal and external pressures. Elements of cooperative federalism included: the establishment of the Australian Loan Council in response to intergovernmental competition in the loan markets; the co-ordination of economic management and budgetary policies during the Great Depression; and the establishment of joint consultative bodies, usually in the form of ministerial councils.\n\nA second turning point came with the threat to Australia at the beginning of the Second World War and the Commonwealth government's mobilisation of financial resources. The constitutional framework on tax allowed both the Commonwealth and States to levy taxes. However, in 1942 the Commonwealth introduced legislation to give it a monopoly on income taxes. It did this by providing financial grants to states (using the section 96 grants power), on the condition that they did not collect their own income taxes. The validity of this scheme was upheld twice in the High Court. \"Uniform\" income taxation levied by the Commonwealth became the principal instrument of Commonwealth financial domination and vertical imbalance in the Australian federal system (vertical fiscal imbalance). The system allowed the Commonwealth to intrude into traditional fields of State responsibility by means of specific purpose grants or loans to the States for purposes such as education, health and transport. Extensive use of these 'tied grants' by the Labor Government 1972–75 provided a \"work-around\" solution for the Australian Labor Party's long-standing frustration with the obstacles of federalism. It thus helped diminish Labor's antipathy to the federal system in Australia.\n\nDespite the centralisation of legislative and financial power, there are many areas where federal Parliament lacks the power to regulate comprehensively, even where such regulation might be seen to be in the national interest. This has led State and federal governments to co-operate to create regulatory regimes in fields such as the marketing of agricultural products and competition policy.\n\nOver the years Australia has developed an increasingly comprehensive system of horizontal fiscal equalisation (HFE) aimed at ensuring that all jurisdictions have the same fiscal capacity in relation to their needs. Since 1933, a statutory agency of the Commonwealth government, the Commonwealth Grants Commission, has been responsible for determining the way transfers are distributed among the States and Territories to accomplish this goal. Since 2000, the net revenue of the GST, a national value-added tax, has been distributed as general purpose payments according to a strict levelling formula determined by the Grants Commission. Discontent with this arrangement led to a review inquiry in 2012.\n\nThe reliance of the States on financial transfers from the Commonwealth, the high degree of \"overlap and duplication\", and the resulting policy conflict and confusion between the levels of government regularly generates criticism and calls for \"reform of the federation\". The Rudd Labor government launched a series of reforms in 2009 designed to reduce the micromanaging character of specific purpose payments. Most recently, the Abbott Liberal-National Party Coalition government commissioned a White Paper on the 'Reform of the Federation'.\n\nIn addition to the States, Australia has a number of Territories. Two of those are self-governing: the Australian Capital Territory (ACT) and the Northern Territory (NT). The rest are administered by the Government of Australia. All are constitutionally under the authority of the Commonwealth parliament. The power to \"make laws for the government\" of the Territories, assigned to the Commonwealth Parliament by s 122 of the Constitution, is not confined by any words of limitation. It is generally assumed to be a plenary power, equivalent to the \"peace, order and good government\" powers of self-government assigned to the States by their own Constitution Acts.\n\nHowever, the Constitution makes almost no provisions as to the role of the territories within the federation. For example, the Senate was to be composed of equal numbers of Senators from each state. A particularly troublesome matter was whether this excluded territories from participation in the Senate. The issue has now been settled by allocating two seats to each of the mainland territories, the Northern Territory and the Australian Capital Territory, while each of the states has twelve. Two of the three inhabited external territories, namely Christmas Island and the Cocos (Keeling) Islands, are represented by the senators and representatives of the Northern Territory. Norfolk Island, however, has no representatives in the Senate or the House of Representatives, as it has a higher degree of autonomy than any other part of Australia.\n\nThe Northern Territory referendum of 1998 narrowly rejected a statehood proposal for the Northern Territory. Admission of the Territory as a new State raises difficult questions about how much representation in parliament would be accorded a jurisdiction with such a small population.\n\nIn response to the increasing overlap between the two levels of government, Australian federalism has developed extensive practices of intergovernmental relations. At the peak of these are formal meetings between the Prime Minister, the premiers of the States, the Chief Ministers of the two self-governing Territories and the president of the Australian Local Government Association. Since the early 1990s, those meetings have been formalised as the Council of Australian Governments (COAG).\n\nIn 2005, the State and Territory governments established their own peak body, the Council for the Australian Federation (CAF), modelled on the Council of the Federation in Canada.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2126131", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126131", "title": "Masumi Hayashi (murderer)", "text": "Masumi Hayashi (murderer)\n\nA communal pot of curry being served to residents of Sonobe district, Wakayama, was poisoned with at least 1,000 grams of arsenic — enough to kill over 100 people — on July 25, 1998.\n\nTwo children and two adults died after consuming the curry, and 63 others suffered from acute arsenic poisoning. Killed in the incident were 64-year-old Takatoshi Taninaka and 53-year-old Takaaki Tanaka (council president and vice president of Wakayama, respectively), 10-year-old Hirotaka Hayashi, and 16-year-old Miyuki Torii.\n\nAttention quickly focused on 37-year-old mother of four Masumi Hayashi, as she was seen by a witness at the curry dish, and she had easy access to arsenic because her husband was an insect exterminator. Prior to the murders, Masumi had been an insurance saleswoman. After her arrest, she and her husband were indicted on a number of insurance fraud charges as well. Masumi was also tried for three other attempted murders by poison that had occurred during the previous 10 years, with the motive in those cases being life insurance benefits. She is believed to have tried to kill her husband at least once. Her motive for poisoning the curry has been said to be anger at her neighbours for shunning her family. The arsenic found in the curry was identical to the arsenic she had in her own home from her husband's extermination business.\n\nAt her trial she pleaded innocent, but Wakayama District Court sentenced her to death in 2002. On June 28, 2005, Osaka High Court upheld her death sentence. However, her lawyers (Yoshihiro Yasuda among them) insisted on her innocence because only circumstantial evidence existed.\n\nOn April 21, 2009, the Supreme Court of Japan rejected her final appeal.\n\nIn July 2009, Hayashi formally petitioned for a retrial. Wakayama District Court rejected her petition in March 2017. Hayashi appealed to Osaka High Court by April 2017.\n\nHayashi's case gained public attention. The crime inspired a wave of copycat poisonings.\n\n"}
{"id": "2126132", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126132", "title": "Victoria Memorial (disambiguation)", "text": "Victoria Memorial (disambiguation)\n\nThere are many memorials to Queen Victoria, including:\n\n"}
{"id": "2126135", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126135", "title": "Signs (journal)", "text": "Signs (journal)\n\nSigns: Journal of Women in Culture and Society is a peer-reviewed feminist academic journal. It was established in 1975 by Jean W. Sacks, Head of the Journals Division, with Catharine R. Stimpson as its first editor in Chief, and is published quarterly by the University of Chicago Press. \"Signs\" publishes essays examining the lives of women, men, and non-binary people around the globe from both historical and contemporary perspectives, as well as theoretical and critical articles addressing processes of gendering, sexualization, and racialization.\n\nThe founding of \"Signs\" in 1975 was part of the early development of the field of women's studies, born of the women's liberation movement of the late 1960s and 1970s. The journal had two founding purposes, as stated in the inaugural editorial: (1) \"to publish the new scholarship about women\" in the U.S. and around the globe, and (2) \"to be interdisciplinary.\" The goal was for readers of the journal to \"grasp a sense of the totality of women's lives and the realities of which they have been a part.\" The meaning behind the name \"Signs\" is that signs \"represent\" and \"point\": the original editors wanted the journal to \"represent the originality and rigor\" of women's studies and to \"point\" to new directions for feminist scholarship.\n\nFormer editor-in-chief Ruth-Ellen Boetcher Joeres said in an article in the Yale Journal of Criticism that \"Signs\", from its inception, was meant to be \"something different, even insurgent...an agent for change,\" because it emerged from the \"grassroots\" feminist movement. Joeres explored the \"paradox\" of how a journal can be both an \"agent for change\" and regarded as \"respectable in the academy,\" and concluded with the hope that \"Signs\" could retain its activist roots and transform the academy.\n\nIn the effort to avoid the tendency of the academy to \"codify\" and limit scholarship, \"Signs\" rotates institutional homes roughly every 5 years. It is currently based at Northeastern University, with Suzanna Danuta Walters, Director of Women's, Gender, and Sexuality Studies and Professor of Sociology, serving as editor-in-chief. In her inaugural editorial, Walters laid out five \"core concerns\" for \"Signs\": (1) for the field of women's studies to \"substantively reckon\" with gender and sexuality studies and queer studies; (2) to focus on \"racial and ethnic difference\"; (3) to re-emphasize \"inter- or transdisciplinarity\"; (4) to not lose sight of \"the big questions about gender and sexuality\" by getting too narrow in scope; and (5) to expand the journal's \"digital presence.\"\n\nThe history of \"Signs\" is explored extensively in Kelly Coogan-Gehr's 2011 book \"The Geopolitics of the Cold War and Narratives of Inclusion: Excavating a Feminist Archive\". Coogan-Gehr uses \"Signs\" as a case study to complicate what she calls the \"stock narrative of feminist field formation.\" She argues that dominant histories of the development of academic feminism, in focusing solely on the women's movement and other radical movements of the 1960s, fail to take into account the role of \"changes the Cold War produced in higher education.\" In the book, she calls \"Signs\" a \"premier academic feminist journal.\"\n\nIn 2015, \"Signs\" launched the Feminist Public Intellectuals Project, which seeks to engage feminist theorizing with pressing political and social problems via three open-access, online-first initiatives: Short Takes: Provocations on Public Feminism, Currents: Feminist Key Concepts and Controversies, and Ask a Feminist. Given the fragmentation of feminist activism and the persistent negative freighting of the term “feminist,” the Feminist Public Intellectuals Project seeks to reimagine what role a journal can play in provoking activism.\n\n\"Short Takes\" features commentaries by feminist activists and public intellectuals on recent books that \"have shaped popular conversations about feminist issues,\" alongside a response by the author. Featured books include Roxane Gay's \"Bad Feminist\", Rebecca Traister's \"All the Single Ladies\", and Andi Zeisler's \"We Were Feminists Once.\"\n\n\"Currents\" publishes essays that put forth \"a nuanced and edgy take on a key issue circulating in the feminist definitional landscape.\" Issues addressed include \"identity politics,\" \"trigger warnings,\" \"celebrity feminism,\" and \"affirmative consent.\"\n\n\"Ask a Feminist\" is an interview series that seeks to create \"conversation between and among feminist scholars, media activists, and community leaders,\" to bridge the divide between scholarship and activism. Recent features include \"Angela P. Harris on Gender and Gun Violence\" and \"Cathy J. Cohen on Black Lives Matter, Feminism, and Contemporary Activism.\"\n\n\"Signs\" awards the Catharine R. Stimpson Prize for Outstanding Feminist Scholarship, named for the founding editor-in-chief of \"Signs,\" biennially to the best paper from an international competition of \"emerging\" feminist scholars (meaning \"fewer than seven years since receipt of the terminal degree\"). The submissions are judged by an international jury of prominent feminist academics. Winners receive a $1,000 honorarium and have their papers published in \"Signs.\"\n\nThe 2017 co-winners of the Stimpson Prize were Cameron Awkward-Rich, for his essay \"Trans, Feminism: \"Or\", Reading like a Depressed Transsexual,\" and Meghan Healy-Clancy, for her essay \"The Family Politics of the Federation of South African Women: A History of Public Motherhood in Women's Antiracist Activism.\"\n\n\n\nThe journal is abstracted and indexed in:\n\nAccording to the \"Journal Citation Reports\", the journal has a 2017 impact factor of 1.078, ranking it 16th out of 42 journals in the category \"Women's Studies\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2126157", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126157", "title": "Nakrekal", "text": "Nakrekal\n\nNakrekal is a census town in Nalgonda district of the Indian state of Telangana. It is located in Nakrekal mandal in Nalgonda division..It is located about 26km from Suryapet and 29km from Nalgonda.\n\nNakrekal is located at . It has an average elevation of 240 metres (790 ft).\n\n\nNH 65 connects the town with Erpedu road in Andhra Pradesh..It has good bus facility for Nalgonda, Suryapet and Hyderabad.\n"}
{"id": "2126159", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126159", "title": "Garrick Tremain", "text": "Garrick Tremain\n\nGarrick Tremain (born 1941) is a New Zealand cartoonist and painter living in Queenstown.\n\nHe has been a professional painter since 1972 and a cartoonist since 1988. Tremain has produced a cartoon six or seven days a week for various New Zealand newspapers, including the \"Otago Daily Times\", apart from a few months of semi-retirement from February 2007, when he produced weekly cartoons.\n\nHe has been a finalist for the Qantas Media Awards Cartoonist in 2000 and 2004.\n\nOn 3 December 2019 the \"Otago Daily Times\" published a cartoon by Tremain making light of the measles epidemic in Samoa. At that point the epidemic had killed 53 people, almost exclusively small children. Many people questioned how a cartoonist could think this an appropriate subject for a cartoon, and also why the editor allowed it to be published. Some of Tremain's colleagues at the ODT spoke out against the publication of the cartoon. The Race Race Relations Commissioner Meng Foon called the cartoon a \"slap in the face\" for the victims' families.\n\nThe public response to the cartoon led to an apology by the ODT the same day, in which editor Barry Stewart said \"The content and timing of the cartoon were insensitive, and we apologise without reservation for publishing it.” \n\nOn 4 December Tremain apologised for his lack of judgment but also referred to the cartoon as a \"light-hearted joke\" and said he \"saw nothing wrong with it\". Protestors outside the ODT offices called for Tremain to be fired and Stewart to step down. Stewart told them that Tremain's position with the paper was under review, and he would not be published again until that review was complete.\n\nTremain had previously been accused of \"playing with outdated and bigoted stereotypes\". On 23 December, the New Zealand Media Council ruled that Tremain's cartoon was \"gratuitously hurtful and discriminatory\". The Council had received 130 complaints in response to Tremain's \"Samoan measles\" cartoon.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2126161", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126161", "title": "Pijnacker", "text": "Pijnacker\n\nPijnacker is a town in the Dutch province of South Holland. It is located about 4 km east of the city of Delft, in the municipality of Pijnacker-Nootdorp.\n\nPijnacker has two stops on the Randstadrail E-lijn between The Hague and Rotterdam: Pijnacker Centrum and Pijnacker-Zuid.\n\nPijnacker was a separate municipality until 2002, when it merged with Nootdorp.\n\nIn and around Pijnacker there are big and attractive nature areas, of which one is the Ackerdijkse Plassen, one of the most important bird areas in the Netherlands.\n\nOne of the dominant buildings in Pijnacker is H. Joannes de Dooper Catholic church on the main street of town, the Oostlaan. It is registered landmark, number 525173. Though once it was a parish with a full-time priest, the Church of Saint John the Baptist (Pijnacker) is now joined with the Church of Saint Bartholomew (Nootdorp) to form one parish within the \"Parish Federation of Oostland\" within the Roman Catholic Diocese of Rotterdam. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "2126165", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126165", "title": "Dictator perpetuo", "text": "Dictator perpetuo\n\nDictator perpetuo (English: \"dictator in perpetuity\"), also called dictator in perpetuum, was the office held by Julius Caesar from 26 January or 15 February of the year 44 BCE until his death on 15 March. By abandoning the time restrictions usually applied in the case of the Roman dictatorship, it elevated Caesar's dictatorship into the monarchical sphere.\n\nJulius Caesar held the dictator position for only eleven days in 49 BCE (holding elections either as \"dictator Comit. habend.\" or as \"dictator rei gerundae causa\") and again for the year 48/47 BCE. In 46 BCE, he was elected dictator for the next ten years. At some point between January and February 44 BCE he was appointed \"dictator perpetuo\", but was assassinated less than two months later (on the Ides of March). \n\nWeinstock has argued that the perpetual dictatorship was part of the senatorial decrees regarding Caesar's divine honors, as well as his planned apotheosis as \"Divus Iulius\", a complex of honors aimed at eternity and divinity.\n\n"}
{"id": "2126171", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126171", "title": "Roodeschool", "text": "Roodeschool\n\nRoodeschool (Gronings: \"Roschoul\") is a community situated in the northeast of Groningen province in the Netherlands and forming part of the municipality of Het Hogeland. It had a population of around 860 in January 2017.\n\nRoodeschool's railway station is the northernmost in the Netherlands and forms part of the Groningen-Roodeschool railway line.\n\nThe name, which means \"red school\", is derived from the local noteworthiness of the red roof tiles of a village school which once stood in the vicinity.\n\nIt was part of Uithuizermeeden municipality before 1979, when it became part of Hefshuizen.\n\n"}
{"id": "2126177", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126177", "title": "Cork City Council", "text": "Cork City Council\n\nCork City Council () is the authority responsible for local government in the city of Cork in Ireland. As a city council, it is governed by the Local Government Act 2001. Prior to the enactment of the 2001 Act, the council was known as Cork Corporation. The council is responsible for housing and community, roads and transportation, urban planning and development, amenity and culture, and environment. The council has 31 elected members. Elections are held every five years and are by single transferable vote. The head of the council has the honorific title of Lord Mayor of Cork. The city administration is headed by a Chief Executive, Ann Doherty. The council meets at City Hall, Cork.\n\nThe boundary of Cork City Council was extended from 31 May 2019, taking in territory formerly part of Cork County Council. This implemented changes under the Local Government Act 2019.\n\nThe 2015 Cork Local Government Review recommended merging Cork City Council and Cork County Council into a single \"super council\", within which a metropolitan district council will govern the Metropolitan Cork area; however, a minority report opposed the merger. This was subsequently followed in 2017 by a report published by an expert advisory group recommending a city boundary extension. The city boundary was to be extended to include Little Island, Cork Airport, Ballincollig, Blarney, and Carrigtwohill, adding a population of over 100,000, however the final extension will not include either Little Island or Carrigtwohill. Places farther out will remain part of the county, including Cobh, Carrigaline, and Midleton, as well as Ringaskiddy, the centre of the Port of Cork. The report gives parameters for compensation to be paid by the city to the county for the consequent reduction in its revenue. The revised proposal was welcomed by Micheál Martin but criticised by some county councillors. The city council voted unanimously to accept it. Barry Roche of \"The Irish Times\" wrote that the Mackinnon Report \"has proven almost as divisive as its predecessor\", except with the city and county councils' positions reversed. On 6 June 2018 Cabinet approval was given for the boundary extension, to include the surrounding areas of Cork Airport, Douglas and others.\n\nCork City Council has 31 seats, which for the 2019 local elections will be divided into the following five local electoral areas, defined by electoral divisions and wards.\nThe following were elected at the 2019 Cork City Council election, following the 2019 boundary extension.\n\nThis list reflects the order in which councillors were elected on 24 May 2019.\n\nReplaced during term, see table below for details.\n\n"}
{"id": "2126186", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126186", "title": "Benjamin D'Urban", "text": "Benjamin D'Urban\n\nLieutenant General Sir Benjamin D'Urban (16 February 1777 – 25 May 1849) was a British general and colonial administrator, who is best known for his frontier policy when he was the Governor in the Cape Colony (now in South Africa).\n\nD'Urban was born in Halesworth, the youngest but only surviving son of Benjamin D'Urban, and joined the British Army in 1793, enlisting as a cornet in the Queen's Bays at the age of sixteen. He made rapid progress in the Army and distinguished himself in the Peninsular War. Assigned to the Portuguese army, he was quartermaster general and chief-of-staff to William Carr Beresford, 1st Viscount Beresford. He served in all the principal sieges and battles, never asked to go on leave, and was laden with honours, being appointed Knight Grand Cross of the Order of the Bath, Knight Commander of the Royal Guelphic Order, and Commander of the Portuguese Order of the Tower and Sword. He received the Army Gold Cross and five clasps for the battles of Busaco, Albuera, Badajoz, Salamanca, Vitoria, the Pyrenees, Nivelle, the Nive, and Toulouse.\n\nBrigadier General D'Urban was given command of a Portuguese cavalry brigade consisting of the 1st, 11th and 12th Dragoons. At the Battle of Salamanca on 22 July 1812, D'Urban's troopers performed well while assisting the 3rd Division's attack on the French left flank. During the Siege of Burgos campaign, D'Urban's horsemen were routed in an action at Majadahonda (Las Rozas) on 11 August, losing 108 men. His brigade was present but not engaged at the Battle of Vitoria in June 1813.\n\nIn 1819, D'Urban was made Governor of Antigua. In 1824 he became lieutenant governor of Demerara-Essequibo, where in 1831 he carried out the amalgamation with Berbice to form British Guiana, of which he was its first governor (1831–33). Three years later he was appointed to the post of Governor of the Cape Colony. In 1829 he was made Colonel of the 51st (2nd Yorkshire West Riding) Regiment of Foot, a position he held for life.\n\nIn January 1834 in South Africa D'Urban took office as governor and commander in chief of the Cape Colony. His administration was complicated by the exodus of Dutch farmers to the far north and east (known as the Great Trek) and the outbreak of the Cape Frontier Wars of (1834–1835) created by incursions of Bantu-speaking Xhosa peoples. He drove back the indigenous peoples and annexed the territory between the Keiskamma and Great Kei (Groot-Kei) rivers.\nHe was in office when Britain abolished slavery, established municipal and legislative councils, occupied Natal (now KwaZulu-Natal) and named it as a new colony for the British Empire. To commemorate this the name of the principal port was changed in 1835 from Port Natal to Durban.\n\nAlthough D'Urban was popular with the white colonists, his treatment of native Black Africans disturbed John Philip, who went to England to give evidence before a parliamentary committee and aroused public opinion against D'Urban. The public outcry influenced Charles Grant, 1st Baron Glenelg, the colonial secretary. In a despatch dated 1 May 1837, Glenelg dismissed D'Urban, who remained governor until the arrival of his successor in January 1838 and continued in his military capacity in South Africa until 1846.\n\nIn 1842 D'Urban declined a high military appointment in British Raj India offered him by Sir Robert Peel.\n\nIn January 1847 he accepted appointment as commander of Her Majesty's forces in British North America. There were border disputes and a threat of invasion by the United States into Canada near Montreal. Early in 1847 he set up his headquarters in Montreal. \nHe remained in Montreal until his death in 1849. He was originally buried at the Papineau military cemetery in Montreal. However, the graves had to be moved because they were in the way of building a new access ramp to the Jacques Cartier Bridge. Sir Benjamin D'Urban's remains now rest at the Last Post Fund National Field of Honour, a military cemetery owned by the Last Post Fund in Pointe-Claire where there is an obelisk to his memory. On the obelisk, there are four plaques: a memorial plaque from the officers of the British Army serving in Canada, a second memorial plaque donated by the City of Durban, one explaining the exhumation and reburial by the Last Post Fund, and one explaining the reburial of the other remains in D'Urban Circle.\n\n"}
{"id": "2126192", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126192", "title": "Uithuizen", "text": "Uithuizen\n\nUithuizen () is a village in the Dutch province of Groningen. It is located in the municipality of Het Hogeland. It had a population of around 5,490 in January 2017.\n\nUithuizen has a railway station.\n\nUithuizen was a separate municipality until 1979, when it became part of Hefshuizen.\n\nMay 17 2008, Cardinal Simonis opened the Trail of St James, connecting Uithuizen to Hasselt, Le Puy en Velay, and Santiago de Compostela, creating a modern, northern branch of the Way of St James.\n\nIn the village is a \"borg\" called the Menkemaborg.\nMenkemaborg at Uithuizen is a 14th-century, brick-built country house, which was substantially altered around 1700, Since then it has since barely been changed. The Alberda family, the 18th-century occupants, commissioned artists to decorate the interior with impressive chimney-pieces carved with baroque ornaments, and paintings of mythological scenes. The Menkemaborg and its gardens are open to the public.\n\nThe Uithuizen Gas Plant processes natural gas to the north of the town, on the Dutch coast.\n\n\nUithuizen hosted the finish of stage 4 at the 2013 Energiewacht Tour.\n\n"}
{"id": "2126197", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126197", "title": "Ohre", "text": "Ohre\n\nThe Ohre is a river in northern Germany, left tributary to the Elbe. Its total length is . Its source is north of Wolfsburg, in Lower Saxony. It flows generally south-east, at first following the border of Lower Saxony and Saxony-Anhalt. After Buchhorst it flows completely through Saxony-Anhalt, along the Mittellandkanal. It flows into the Elbe in Rogätz, north of Magdeburg. The towns Brome, Calvörde, Haldensleben and Wolmirstedt lie along the river. The upper course of the Ohre is in the Drömling nature reserve.\n\n"}
{"id": "2126202", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126202", "title": "De Klomp", "text": "De Klomp\n\nDe Klomp is a location in the municipality of Ede, with a railway station called \"Veenendaal-De Klomp railway station\". It is located in the Dutch province of Gelderland.\n"}
{"id": "2126213", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126213", "title": "Vleuten", "text": "Vleuten\n\nVleuten is a former village in the Dutch province of Utrecht. It is a neighbourhood of the city of Utrecht, and lies about 6 km west of it. Vleuten has a railway station on the line between Utrecht and Woerden.\n\nIn 2001, Vleuten had 7434 inhabitants. The built-up area was 1.4 km, and contained 2979 residences.\nThe statistical area \"Vleuten\" has a population of around 7090.\n\nVleuten used to be a separate municipality, until it merged with a number of other municipalities in 1954 to form Vleuten-De Meern. In 2001, that municipality merged with the municipality of Utrecht to become a city part of it.\n\n"}
{"id": "2126216", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126216", "title": "Jutro", "text": "Jutro\n\nJutro (trans. \"Morning\") was a Sarajevo-based rock band most notable as the immediate predecessor to Bijelo Dugme. It existed from late 1971 until the very end of 1973 when it transformed into one of the most successful rock bands ever to come out of SFR Yugoslavia — Bijelo Dugme.\n\nJutro was the brainchild of twenty-eight-year-old Ismet \"Nuno\" Arnautalić (formerly of Indexi) who in fall 1971 approached Goran Bregović with an offer of putting together a new band. Twenty-one-year-old Bregović — who had recently returned to Sarajevo after gigging across Southern Italy for a year as part of an act called Kodeksi that eventually transformed into Mića, Goran i Zoran before folding — gladly accepted. Both self-taught musicians trying to make a living on the fledgling Yugoslav pop-rock scene, Arnautalić and Bregović were now, following a few recent professional setbacks, ready and eager to give being in a band another try. \n\nHaving been a founding member of Indexi — spending most of the 1960s with the band, a period during which they released a number of singles, competed at countless schlager festivals around Yugoslavia, and went on a lucrative tour of the Soviet Union — Arnautalić never reclaimed his spot in the band after going away to serve his mandatory year-long Yugoslav People's Army (JNA) stint in 1969. He instead got married, had a child, secured a steady source of income by getting hired at Radio Sarajevo's Dance Orchestra (one of the state-owned broadcaster's official musical ensembles), and was now looking to get back on the commercial scene via starting another band. On the other hand, though significantly younger than Arnautalić, Bregović was no less ambitious and driven when it came to organizing and running a band, seeing Jutro as a fresh opportunity to implement the ideas he wasn't able to at Kodeksi. In the months following his return from Italy, he had rededicated himself to his neglected philosophy and sociology studies at the University of Sarajevo's Faculty of Philosophy, passing exam after exam. He even got accepted into the Yugoslav Communist League (SKJ), the only political organization in the country's one-party system.\n\nBy January 1972, Bregović came up with a few of his own songs along with a vision for a band that was still missing a singer. He soon approached his old Kodeksi bandmate Željko Bebek — whom he hadn't spoken to in more than a year, ever since their acrimonious split in Italy — by sending him a brief unsigned telegram stating a meeting time in front of the Radio Sarajevo building at Danijela Ozme Street. At the meeting, Bregović presented the idea of a new band to his old acquaintance and professional collaborator by saying: \"let bygones be bygones and let's do something\". Twenty-six-year-old Bebek had been preparing to leave town for his mandatory army stint, but still took the unexpected offer, recording a couple of early versions of \"Patim, evo, deset dana\" before going away to serve in Pirot on 23 February 1972 thus leaving Bregović and Arnautalić without a singer again.\n\nAround the same time, the duo started butting heads over Jutro's future direction: Arnautalić wanted them to go the route of competitive pop schlager festivals in order to get noticed, whereas Bregović thought live club shows were the way to go about building an audience. After much wrangling, they agreed on Zlatko Hodnik as the new temporary singer. Hodnik — the winner of the Zlatni aplauz festival for singing hopefuls — was a typical schlager festival singer, all of which Bregović detested, but Arnautalić prevailed on this issue. In turn, Bregović got to pick the rhythm section, bringing in his old buddy from Kodeksi and Italian days Zoran Redžić on bass as well as drummer Gordan Matrak (fellow student at Sarajevo University's Faculty of Philosophy, which Bregović attended at the time).\n\nJutro's first live performance took place in Skenderija Hall on 15 April 1972 as part of the Vaš šlager sezone festival, a schlager competition estalished and run by Nuno Arnautalić's older brother Esad. They performed the song \"Ostajem tebi\" that would later be included on their Radio Kruševac-released single \"Ostajem tebi\" / \"Sad te vidim\". The main prize that day was won by Pro arte performing a Đorđe Novković-written song \"Nemoj draga plakati\".\n\nIn November 1972, Bebek got an army leave allowing him to temporarily return home to Sarajevo, a period during which he recorded tracks \"Kad bi' bio bijelo dugme\", \"Na vrh brda vrba mrda\", \"Hop cup\", and \"U subotu, mala\" before going back to serve.\n\nIn the meantime, drummer Gordan Matrak left the band. Perica Stojanović became the new drummer for a short period, but after he left too, Vladimir \"Šento\" Borovčanin came over from Pro arte, bringing desired stability.\n\nBy February 1973, the band was eagerly awaiting Bebek's return from the army. However, nothing could repair the deteriorating Arnautalić-Bregović relationship as their disagreements and silent feuding came to a head. Bregović began pushing harder for a musical shift within the band — wanting them to start playing tight hard rock with a particularly strong Balkan folk component, none of which sat well with Arnautalić who wanted to keep the status quo and continue playing schlagers. Bregović won this standoff, mostly because the rest of the band (Zoran and Šento) supported his vision. Even Bebek chimed in from the army in support of Bregović's direction as Arnautalić was increasingly being overruled and even pushed towards leaving.\n\nIn March 1973, Radio Kruševac released Jutro's second 7-inch single \"U subotu, mala\" / \"Kad bi' bio bijelo dugme\" (two of the songs Bebek recorded during one of his army leaves). The order of the songs on the single served to drive yet another wedge between Bregović and Arnautalić because Arnautalić, who kept contact with the label on band's behalf, unilaterally submitted his song \"U subotu, mala\" as the A-side thus relegating Bregović's \"Kad bi' bio bijelo dugme\" to the B-side. Arnautalić left the band right after the single release. Around the same time Bebek returned from the army for good, however, not being quite convinced about the band's commercial potential, he also got a regular job — finding employment as a clerk at the municipal social services.\n\nSoon after Arnautalić's departure from the band, Bregović, who by now became the group's undisputed leader and driving force, set about molding it to his own preferences, which almost felt like starting over from scratch. One of his first decisions was adding a keyboard player — a spot eventually filled by the locally established musician Vlado Pravdić who had already been contributing to Jutro since the group's early days and was on friendly terms with its members. Furthermore, he owned a Hammond organ, which was an added plus.\n\nBregović also wanted to come up with a batch of new material, pushing the other members hard towards that end. This created resistance, especially from Šento Borovčanin who had already experienced a certain measure of fame at Pro arte, and thus did not appreciate being bossed around by Bregović. Borovčanin's enthusiasm further dropped when the negotiations with Jugoton regarding the release of a single fell through, and he also started swaying Zoran Redžić over to his side. The situation festered until the beginning of the summer when Bregović kicked them both out of the band following a vicious shouting match.\n\nIn order to achieve his goal of coming up with more material, Bregović met up with Pravdić (still not officially a Jutro member) in Gradac during the summer of 1973. Bregović vacationed there in his mother's house, while Pravdić played summer gigs with Indexi in nearby Baška Voda. They jammed a lot together in this period, creating templates for many of the future songs (most of which eventually ended up on Bijelo dugme albums).\n\nSo, after a productive working vacation, Bregović was back in Sarajevo faced with a problem of finding a new rhythm section. Borovčanin's replacement on drums became seventeen-year-old Ipe Ivandić whom Bregović met at Skenderija Hall while filling the bass player spot proved to be more difficult. Bregović heavily courted Ivica Vinković of Ambasadori who stayed behind in Sarajevo because of university obligations while his band was touring Soviet Union. For a while Vinković seemed eager to join Jutro, too, however, once his Ambasadori bandmates returned from the tour with pockets full of cash, he wanted no part of Jutro anymore, and immediately ended his episode with Bregović. Still, his brief stint with the band was noted on tracks \"Top\" and \"Ove ću noći naći blues\", which would also later become a part of Bijelo Dugme repertoire. Jadranko Stanković became the new bassist.\n\nAs 1973 was nearing to a close, Jutro was constantly gigging, but the income was low. Furthermore, with no album in sight, their prospects for a sudden injection of cash were bleak.\n\nFollowing Arnautalić's departure from the band, Jutro experienced a continual problem with access to recording studios in Sarajevo, which was Aranutalić's revenge to Bregović for phasing him out of the band. Arnautalić claimed ownership of the name \"Jutro\" and used the influence his older brother Esad Arnautalić wielded around Radio Sarajevo in order to place a shadow ban on Jutro recording in their studios. \n\nTrying to get around the unfortunate situation, the band members enlisted their own personal connections as Vlado Pravdić's mother had a friend employed at Radio Sarajevo whom they called aunt Maca. However, they didn't get anywhere until Bregović met and somewhat befriended composer Nikola Borota Radovan who happened to be contracted by Radio-Television Sarajevo and Jugoton as a music producer and TV executive in charge of youth programming. The two cut a deal whereby Bregović would help out on tracks \"Hop cup\" (G. Bregović) and \"Kameni cvijet\" (N. Borota), which Borota had been producing for singer Hamdija Čustović's upcoming single, in return for some studio time at the end of Ćustović's sessions. The session was officially engineered by Antun \"Tuna\" Marković, one of the oldest and most experienced sound engineers at the time. However, for the occasion, Borota briefly replaced him on the mixing console while he was having a nap in the corner of the control console. The two tracks Jutro recorded that day — \"Top\" and \"Ove ću noći naći blues\" — would later on, during spring 1974, be released as a seven-inch single by Jugoton under the (newly formed) Bijelo Dugme banner, launching the band to nation-wide fame. The material would initially be offered to local Sarajevo-based label Diskoton, however, once its executive Slobodan Vujovic rejected it, Jugoton stepped in via, in part, Borota's connections and local Jugoton representative Hamdija Salković.\n\nStill, for the time being in late 1973, Bregović had to concede Arnautalić and his brother were powerful and influential figures on the Sarajevo music scene and that guerilla recording wasn't going to get Jutro anywhere. Since the band was about to enter their third year of existence with very little to show for their musical engagement, something had to be done about the studio access. \n\nAs they were generally known by their song \"Kad bi bilo bijelo dugme\" and since there was also another band named Jutro operating in Ljubljana, Bregović & co. decided to switch their name to Bijelo Dugme. The change officially took effect on the night between December 31, 1973 and January 1, 1974 when they played Skenderija Hall as Bijelo dugme for the very first time. By some sources Damjan Babic, a composer and professor asked Bregovic if “kad bi’ bio bijelo dugme” song was his and why not to name the bend “Bijelo dugme” (White button). Bregovic didn’t have any other alternative name. \n\nThe name change took care of the studio access issue as Arnautalić finally put aside his grievances.\n\n"}
{"id": "2126218", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126218", "title": "Zaandam", "text": "Zaandam\n\nZaandam () is a city in the province of North Holland, Netherlands. It is the main city of the municipality of Zaanstad, and received city rights in 1811. It is located on the river Zaan, just north of Amsterdam.\n\nThe statistical district Zaandam, which covers the city and the surrounding countryside, has a population of around 76,804. Zaandam was a separate municipality until 1974, when it became a part of the new municipality of Zaanstad.\n\nThe history of Zaandam (formerly called \"Saenredam\") and the surrounding Zaan River region (the Zaanstreek) is intimately tied to industry. In the Dutch Golden Age, Zaandam served as a large milling centre. Thousands of windmills powered saws that processed Scandinavian wood for the shipbuilding and paper industries. A statue that commemorates this industry was commissioned from sculptor Slavomir Miletić, and the statue, \"De houtwerker\" (\"The Woodworker\"), was installed on 20 June 2004.\n\nZaandam was a leading city in the first Industrial Revolution. Into the second half of the 20th century, Zaandam was still an important lumber port. Zaandam is also historically linked with the whaling industry.\n\nIn 1697, Czar Peter I of Russia spent some time in Zaandam, where he studied shipbuilding. He stayed in a little wooden house built in 1632, but was soon forced to leave because he attracted too much attention from the local population; he moved to Amsterdam, where he studied at one of the wharves of the Dutch East India Company. The wooden house he stayed was preserved and turned into a museum, the Czar Peter House. A statue honoring him was placed on the nearby Dam Square in 1911, and was declared a Rijksmonument.\n\nIn 1871, the impressionist painter Claude Monet lived in Zaandam for approximately half a year. During that time, he made 25 paintings of the area, including \"Houses on the Achterzaan\", \"Bateaux en Hollande pres de Zaandam\" and \"A windmill at Zaandam\".\n\nThe first European McDonald's restaurant opened in Zaandam in 1971. The Albert Heijn supermarket chain (founded in nearby Oostzaan in 1887), now grown into the Ahold Delhaize retail company, is headquartered in Zaandam. Chocolate manufacturer Verkade also hails from Zaandam. \nFootball club AZ (Alkmaar Zaanstreek) was founded in Zaandam on May 10, 1967.\n\nThere are two railway stations in Zaandam: Zaandam railway station and Zaandam Kogerveld railway station. Plans exist by the province of North Holland to extend the Amsterdam Metro to Zaandam. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "2126220", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126220", "title": "Vic Seipke", "text": "Vic Seipke\n\nVic Seipke (born 23 April 1932) is an American bodybuilder. His titles include Mr. Michigan (1951), Junior Mr. America (1955) and Mr. America-Masters (1976).\n\n"}
{"id": "2126221", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126221", "title": "Michael Egan (Irish politician)", "text": "Michael Egan (Irish politician)\n\nMichael Egan (28 February 1866 – 3 March 1947) was an Irish trade unionist and politician.\n\nA coach-builder by trade, his public career started when he was comparatively young, and he became an advocate of the workers of Cork and a driving force in establishing and maintaining trade unionism in the city—often against strong opposition. For several years he was Chairman of the Cork Workers Council, and was Vice-President and then President of the Cork United Trades from 1904 to 1907, and again in 1913.\n\nIn 1908 he was elected to the Cork Corporation, and was active locally on the portfolios of Law, Finance, and Public Works.\n\nHe was a member of the National Executive of the Irish Trade Union Congress and Labour Party, and represented the labour movement on the Anti-Conscription Committee which sat in Dublin during World War I with fellow members Éamon de Valera, Arthur Griffith and John Dillon.\n\nFollowing the resignation of his colleague Alfred O'Rahilly, Egan was elected at a by-election in 1924 to Dáil Éireann as a Cumann na nGaedheal Teachta Dála (TD). He sat with the 4th Dáil until the general election of June 1927, when he was not re-elected.\n\nHe continued his involvement however in Irish politics and was president of the Cork branch of Cumann na nGaedheal from 1928 to 1930. Active in public life in Cork into later years, he was a member of the Cork Harbour Board, and Cork Vocational Education Committee.\n\nMichael Egan married Annie Brennan in 1899, and had four children. He died in the North Infirmary Cork, in March 1947 aged 81.\n"}
{"id": "2126229", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126229", "title": "Talacre", "text": "Talacre\n\nTalacre is a village in Flintshire on the north coast of Wales in the community of Llanasa and the electoral ward of Ffynnongroyw. The village itself has a population of 347 as of the 2011 census. It is a very anglicised village with only 98 residents born in Wales as of the 2011 census.\n\nIt is near Point of Ayr on the west side of the River Dee estuary and has a sandy beach with dunes and large holiday caravan parks adjacent. The hills of the Clwydian Range behind the village form the eastern boundary of the Vale of Clwyd. The name Talacre is a combination of the Welsh words \"tal\" \"end\" and \"acrau\" \"acres\", which in the dialect of north-east Wales is pronounced \"acre\" . This has led to the local English pronunciation . Some sources claim the English version is properly pronounced .\nThe village is probably most popular for the lighthouse on the nearby beach and the Talacre Beach Resort, a short walk away from the Presthaven Sands holiday park. The lighthouse has been noted for numerous ghostly sightings, people claiming to see a figure wearing old fashioned lighthouse keeper clothes and standing in front of the glass dome of the abandoned lighthouse. The lighthouse was featured in popular British television drama Skins, in the episode Skins Pure.\n\nTalacre was used by the armed forces during the Second World War as an aircraft firing range. Fighters flew over the remote village every day, shooting at wooden targets in the dunes and at drogues towed by aircraft. It was also used for testing new devices such as 'window,' the anti-radar foil that, on occasion, covered the whole village with silver.\n\nThe Talacre estate (Talacre Abbey) and Talacre Hall, built in 1829, were the home of the Mostyn baronets of Talacre. The Carmelite Margaret Mostyn grew up on the estate in the early 1600s. In 1919 the Mostyn family sold the estate by auction and in 1921 it was occupied by a community of Benedictine nuns, who moved out in 1988. The main hall, a grade II* listed building, now functions as a private house again, but was renamed Westbury Castle.\n\nThe village was served by Talacre railway station on the North Wales Coast Line until it was closed in 1966.\n"}
{"id": "2126242", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126242", "title": "Rajendra Chola I", "text": "Rajendra Chola I\n\nRajendra Chola I was the son of Rajaraja Chola and Thiripuvana Madeviyar, princess of Kodumbalur. He was born in the Tamil month of Marghazi under star Thiruvathirai. He spent most of his childhood in Palayarai and was brought up by his aunt Kundavai and great-grandmother Sembiyan Mahadevi. He was made the co-regent in 1012 CE. Rajendra formally ascended the Chola throne in 1014 CE. In 1018 CE, he installed his eldest son Rajadhiraja Chola I as the crown prince.\n\nRajendra led campaigns from 1002 CE. These include the conquest of the Rashtrakutas and the campaigns against the Western Chalukyas. He conquered the Chalukyan territories of Yedatore (a large part of the Raichur district between the Krishna and the Tungabhadra), Banavasi in the north-west of Mysore and capital Manyakheta. Rajendra erected a Siva temple at Bhatkal. In 1004 CE, he captured Talakad and overthrew the Western Ganga dynasty which had ruled over Mysore for almost 1000 years. He also conquered Kollipakkai, located to the north of Hyderabad in present-day Telangana. An excerpt from an inscription in Tamil from Kolar states:\n\nRaja Raja Chola I conquered the northern half of Sri Lanka during his reign. Rajendra invaded Ceylon in 1017 CE and annexed the entire island. As a result of the campaign, Rajendra captured the regal jewels of the Pandyas, which Parantaka I tried to capture and the crown of the Sinhala king. The Sinhala king Mahinda V was taken prisoner and transported to the Chola country.\n\nIn 1018/19 CE, Rajendra marched into the Pandya and Chera Perumal kingdoms and conquered the two countries. Rajendra appointed one of his sons as viceroy with the title \"Jatavarman Sundara Chola-Pandya\" with Madurai as the headquarters (in-charge both Pandya and Chera/Kerala countries).\n\nIn 1015 CE, Jayasimha II became the king of Western Chalukyas. He tried to recover the losses suffered by his predecessor Satyashraya, who fled his capital and was later restored to the throne by Raja Raja I as a tribute paying subordinate. Initially, Jayasimha II was successful as Rajendra was busy with his campaigns in Sri Lanka. In 1021 CE, after the demise of the Eastern Chalukyan king Vimaladitya of Vengi, Jayasimha supported the claim of Vijayaditya VII to the throne against the claims of Rajaraja Narendra. Rajaraja Narendra was the son of Vimaladitya and Chola princess Kundavai. Rajendra helped his nephew Rajaraja defeat Vijayaditya. His armies defeated Vijayadiya in Vengi and Jayasimha in the battle of Maski.\n\nIn 1019 CE, Rajendra's forces marched through Kalinga towards the river Ganga. In Kalinga the Chola forces defeated Indraratha the ruler of the Somavamsi Dynasty. The Chola army eventually reached the Pala kingdom of Bengal where they defeated Mahipala. The Chola army also defeated the last ruler of the Kamboja Pala dynasty Dharmapala of Dandabhukti. The Chola army went on to raid East Bengal and defeated Govindachandra of the Chandra dynasty and invaded Bastar region. The territories held the status of tribute paying subordinates and trade partners with the Chola Kingdom, an arrangement that lasted till the times of Kulothunga III. He constructed a new capital at Gangaikondacholapuram and built the Brihadeeswarar Temple similar to the Brihadeeswarar Temple at Thanjavur.\n\nSrivijaya was a kingdom centered on Palembang in Sumatra, ruled by the Sailendra dynasty. During the reign of Mara Vijayatungavarman, Srivijaya had cordial relations with the Chola Empire during the reign of Rajaraja Chola I; Mara Vijayatungavarman built a Chudamani Vihara at Nagapattinam. Mara was succeeded by Sangrama Vijayatunggavarman.\n\nKhmer Emperor Suryavarman I made war on the kingdom of Tambralinga (in the Malay Peninsula). Suryavarman I requested aid from Rajendra. After learning of Suryavarman's alliance with Rajendra Chola, Tambralinga requested aid from Srivijaya, which was granted by Sangrama. This eventually led to the Chola expedition against the Srivijiya Empire. This alliance somewhat also had a religious nuance, since both the Chola Empire and the Khmer Empire were Hindu Shivaist, while Tambralinga and Srivijaya were Mahayana Buddhist.\n\nIn 1025 CE, Rajendra led Chola forces across the Indian Ocean and invaded Srivijaya, attacking several places in Malaysia and Indonesia. The Chola sacked Kadaram (the capital) and Pannai in Sumatra and Malaiyur in the Malay Peninsula. Rajendra also invaded Tambralinga and the Langkasuka Kingdom in modern Malaysia and south Thailand. The Chola forces captured the last ruler of the Sailendra Dynasty Sangrama Vijayatunggavarman. The Chola invasion was the end of Srivijaya. Srivijaya's maritime power declined under Chola attack. After this the Chola Empire conquered large portions of Srivijaya, including its ports of Ligor, Kedah, and Tumasik (now Singapore). The Chola invasion furthered the expansion of Tamil merchant associations such as the Manigramam, Ayyavole, and Ainnurruvar into Southeast Asia. For the next century, Tamil trading companies from southern India dominated Southeast Asia. The expedition of Rajendra Chola I is mentioned in the corrupted form as Raja Chulan in the medieval Malay chronicle \"Sejarah Melaya\", and Malay princes have names ending with Cholan or Chulan, such as Raja Chulan of Perak. One record of Rajendra Chola describes him as the King of Lamuri in north Sumatra. The Chola invasion led to the fall of the Sailendra Dynasty of Srivijaya and the Chola invasion also coincides with the return voyage of the great Buddhist scholar Atiśa from Sumatra to India in 1025.\n\nRajendra Chola built a vast artificial lake, sixteen miles long and three miles wide which was one of the largest man-made lakes in India. The fortified capital of Rajendra Chola was of impressive grandeur and Ottakoothar states, \"On seeing Gangapuri, all fourteen worlds encircled by the billowing ocean are overwhelmed with joy\". The extent of the empire was the widest in India and the military and naval prestige was at its highest. The successful invasions of Rajendra Chola were applauded by several medieval Tamil poets like Jayamkondan in his text Kalingattupparani and Ottakkoothar in his text Ula.\n\nAfter his successful campaign to Ganges river in north India he got the title \"Gangaikonda Chola\" (The Chola who took the Ganges river). And after his successful Southeast Asian campaign he got the title \"Kadaram Kondan\"(He who took Kedah in Malaysia). He founded a new capital city called Gangaikonda Cholapuram and built a Shiva temple similar to the Thanjavur Brihadisvara temple built by his father Rajaraja Chola. He expanded the Pathirakali Amman Temple and Koneswaram temple of Trincomalee. He inherited the title \"Mummudi Cholan\" (Chola with three crowns) from his father with \"Mummudi\", a title used by Tamil kings who ruled the three kingdoms of Cholas, Pandyas and Cheras. To commemorate his conquests, Rajendra assumed other titles such as \"Mudigonda Cholan\" and \"Irattapadikonda Cholan\".\n\nThe Malay-language \"Hikayat Iskandar Zulkarnain\" was written about Alexander the Great as Dhul-Qarnayn and from it the ancestry of several Southeast Asian royal families is traced to Iskandar Zulkarnain, through Rajendra Chola (Raja Suran, Raja Chola) in the \"Malay Annals\", such as the Sumatran Minangkabau royalty.\n\nRajendra Chola had many consorts including Tribuvana or Vanavan Mahadeviar, Mukkokilan,Arindhavan Madevi and Viramadevi, last of whom committed sati upon Rajendra Chola's death. The Siddanta Saravali of Trilochana Sivacharya states that Rajendra was a poet and he composed hymns in praise of Shiva. A commentary on the same work states that Rajendra Chola brought a number of Saivas from the banks of the Ganges and settled them in Kanchi and the Chola country. Rajendra Chola had three sons namely Rajadhiraja Chola, Rajendra Chola II and Virarajendra Chola, who followed him on the Chola throne in succession. He had two daughters Pranaar Arul Mozhi Nangai and Ammanga Devi. His campaigns were led by general Senapati Narakkan Sri Krishnan Raman. Another notable minister of Madhurantaka or Rajendra Chola as per his Tiruvalangadu plates, who assisted him in several of his campaigns, was nobleman Jananatha, described as the son of Rama. He bore the title Chalukya-Chudamani, that is \"crest-jewel-of-the-Chalukyas\".\n\nAccording to South Indian epigraphs and records, Rajendra Chola I died in Brahmadesam now a part of North Arcot district in Tamil Nadu, India. This information is recorded in an inscription of his son, Rajadhiraja Chola I which states that Rajendra Chola's queen Viramadeviyar committed Sati upon Rajendra's death and her remains were interred in the same tomb as Rajendra Chola I in Brahmadesam. It adds that the queen's brother, sēnapati Madhurantakan Parakēsari vēlān, who was a general in Rajendra Chola's army set up a watershed at the same place in memory of his sister.\n\nAn inscription of the king from the Adhipuriswara temple in Chengalpattu district gives his natal star as Tiruvadarai. Donations were made to the temple to celebrate the king's birthday in the month of Maargali. Another inscription from the Umamahesvara temple in Konerirajapuram, Thanjavur district refers to the donations by Alvar Parantakan Kundavai-Pirattiyar during the third year of the king's reign.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2126248", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126248", "title": "Zevenbergen", "text": "Zevenbergen\n\nZevenbergen is a Dutch city which is a part of the municipality of Moerdijk. Zevenbergen is located in the northwest of the province of Noord-Brabant near Breda.\n\nZevenbergen (literal translation: Seven Mountains) is presumably named after the hills that formed a natural barrier of protection during the time of the Roman Empire. The actual number of hills is debatable however and was most likely not seven. Archeological excavations in 1964 and 1965 revealed that two of the hills were already present during the Bronze Age.\n\nFrom the mid-nineteenth century until the end of the twentieth century, Zevenbergen was most famous for its sugar production comprising three sugar factories. As a result of the sugar transport requirement, Zevenbergen got its railways, as well as the harbour located at the end of the \"Mark\" canal.\n\nZevenbergen was a separate municipality until 1997, when it merged with Fijnaart en Heijningen, Klundert, Standdaarbuiten and Willemstad. The name of the new municipality was originally \"Zevenbergen\", but was changed to \"Moerdijk\" in 1998.\n\nThe Zevenbergen railway station has, together with nearby Oudenbosch, one of the oldest station buildings still existing in the Netherlands. The only older station building is the Valkenburg railway station.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2126258", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126258", "title": "Tweez", "text": "Tweez\n\nTweez is the debut studio album by American rock band Slint. It was originally released on the label Jennifer Hartman Records in 1989 as the only record put out by the label, which was run by their friend and namesake, Jennifer Hartman. It is also the only Slint album to feature bassist Ethan Buckler. The album was reissued by Touch and Go Records in 1993 after the group's follow-up, \"Spiderland\", began to generate a cult following.\n\n\"Tweez\" was recorded at Studiomedia in Evanston, Illinois, and was produced by Steve Albini.\n\nAll of the album's song titles are taken from the names of the band members' parents, with the exception of \"Rhoda\", which was named after drummer Britt Walford's dog: \"Ron\" and \"Charlotte\" are named for Walford's parents, \"Nan Ding\" and \"Darlene\" for guitarist David Pajo's, \"Carol\" and \"Kent\" for guitarist and vocalist Brian McMahan's and \"Warren\" and \"Pat\" for those of bassist Ethan Buckler.\n\nOn the vinyl version of the album, the individual sides of the record are labelled and given in the track listing as \"Bemis\" and \"Gerber\".\n\nThe cover art for Tweez features a photo of a Saab 900 Turbo, with the Saab logo on the grille replaced with \"Slint\" and the \"Turbo\" logo replaced with the album's title. On the vinyl version of the album, both labels feature parodies of the Saab logo, with \"Slint\" replacing \"Saab\" and the name of either side of the album (Bemis and Gerber) replacing \"Technologies.\" On CD and cassette versions of the album, the message \"This recording is meant to be listened to on vinyl.\" can be seen on the back.\n\nThe album has received generally mixed to positive reviews.\n\nJohn Bush of AllMusic described the album as \"a fine, if bizarre recording, often switching from bass-led rhythm to rhythm in the same song.\"\n\nThe vinyl sides are referred to as \"Bemis\" and \"Gerber\".\nSlint\n\n\nTechnical\n\n"}
{"id": "2126260", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126260", "title": "Microcytic anemia", "text": "Microcytic anemia\n\nMicrocytic anaemia is any of several types of anaemia characterized by small red blood cells (called microcytes). The normal mean corpuscular volume (abbreviated to MCV on full blood count results, and also known as mean cell volume) is approximately 80–100 fL. When the MCV is <80 fL, the red cells are described as microcytic and when >100 fL, macrocytic (the latter occur in macrocytic anemia). The MCV is the average red blood cell size.\n\nIn microcytic anaemia, the red blood cells (erythrocytes) contain less hemoglobin and are usually also hypochromic, meaning that the red blood cells appear paler than usual. This can be reflected by a low mean corpuscular hemoglobin concentration (MCHC), a measure representing the amount of hemoglobin per unit volume of fluid inside the cell; normally about 320–360 g/L or 32–36 g/dL. Typically, therefore, anemia of this category is described as \"microcytic, hypochromic anaemia\".\n\nTypical causes of microcytic anemia include:\n\nOther causes that are typically thought of as causing normocytic anemia or macrocytic anemia must also be considered, and the presence of two or more causes of anemia can distort the typical picture.\n\nThere are five main causes of microcytic anemia forming the acronym TAILS. Thalassemia, anemia of chronic disease, iron deficiency, lead poisoning and congenital sideroblastic anemia. Only the first three are common in most parts of the world. In theory, these three can be differentiated by their red blood cell (RBC) morphologies. Anemia of chronic disease shows unremarkable RBCs, iron deficiency shows anisocytosis, anisochromia and elliptocytosis, and thalassemias demonstrate target cells and coarse basophilic stippling. In practice though elliptocytes and anisocytosis are often seen in thalassemia and target cells occasionally in iron deficiency. All three may show unremarkable RBC morphology. Basophilic stippling is one morphologic finding of thalassemia which does not appear in iron deficiency or anemia of chronic disease. The patient should be in an ethnically at risk group and the diagnosis is not confirmed without a confirmatory method such as hemoglobin HPLC, H body staining, molecular testing or another reliable method. Coarse basophilic stippling occurs in other cases as seen in Table 1.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2126265", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126265", "title": "Tony Diprose", "text": "Tony Diprose\n\nTony Diprose (born 22 September 1972, in Orsett) is a former English rugby union footballer. He played at number 8.\n\nDiprose attended The Campion School, Hornchurch.\n\nIn 1995/96, Diprose captained England A to an unbeaten season, just 12 months after being voted the RFU Young Player of the Year.\n\nDiprose has won ten full caps for England and has a reputation of being one of the most talented footballing forwards of his generation. He won his first cap against Argentina in 1997 and scored a try.\n\nIn 1998, Diprose captained England against after Matt Dawson was forced to withdraw through injury.\n\nDiprose signed for Harlequins from Saracens in April 2001 and made his début in the pre-season friendly against Bedford at Goldington Road four months later (18 August 2001).\n\nDiprose scored his first try for Quins in the Heineken Cup match away to Munster (5 January 2002) and for his efforts over the 2002/03 campaign, he was named 'Supporters Player of the Season.'\n\nDiprose retired at the end of the 2005/06 season and joined the coaching staff at Harlequins as the Academy Manager. As of January 2020 Tony is the head of sport at Canford school. Home to the mighty Canford colts\n\n"}
{"id": "2126305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126305", "title": "Steve Bedrosian", "text": "Steve Bedrosian\n\nStephen Wayne Bedrosian (born December 6, 1957) is an American former Major League Baseball player of Armenian descent. Nicknamed \"Bedrock\", he played from 1981 to 1995 with the Atlanta Braves, Philadelphia Phillies, San Francisco Giants, and Minnesota Twins. Bedrosian won the 1987 National League Cy Young Award.\n\nAt the University of New Haven, Bedrosian put up a career record of 13–3 and 3 saves. He helped the Chargers to a third-place finish in the 1978 College World Series. He was then drafted by the Atlanta Braves in the 1978 MLB draft.\n\nIn 1985, his only full season as a starter, Bedrosian went 7–15 and set a Major League record for most starts in a single season without a complete game (37).\n\nBedrosian was traded by the Braves to the Phillies in the off-season and was converted to a reliever before the 1986 season. In his first year in relief, he saved 29 games. His best season came in 1987 when he posted a 5–3 record for the Phillies with a 2.83 earned run average, recorded a league-leading 40 saves, and was named the National League Cy Young Award winner. Since Bedrosian, only three other relievers (Mark Davis, Dennis Eckersley and Éric Gagné) have won Cy Young honors.\n\nHe was traded to the Giants during the 1989 season to help their pennant drive that year. In 1990, he won the Willie Mac Award, voted upon by his teammates, honoring his spirit and leadership (his then two-year-old son Cody was battling leukemia).\n\nAs a member of the Minnesota Twins, Bedrosian faced his former team the Braves in the 1991 World Series. The Twins won in seven games.\n\nCurrently, Bedrosian resides in Newnan, Georgia, where he served on the Coweta County Board of Education, through 2010, and is an assistant baseball coach at East Coweta High School.\n\nIn 2008, Bedrosian was inducted into the Coweta Sports Hall of Fame. Bedrosian has also been inducted into the University of New Haven Hall of Fame.\n\nBedrosian has four sons and a daughter. Cam, who plays for the Los Angeles Angels, selected in the 2010 MLB draft; Kyle, who played for Mercer University and is a pitching coach at local baseball academy Home Plate; Cody, who works for Turner News Networks; Carson who served in the Navy before returning to school; and Katelyn, a dental technician.\n\nBedrosian was referenced in the \"It's Always Sunny in Philadelphia\" \"A Very Sunny Christmas\" episode.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2126354", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126354", "title": "Kingdom of Slavonia", "text": "Kingdom of Slavonia\n\nThe Kingdom of Slavonia (; ; ; ) was a province of the Habsburg Monarchy and the Austrian Empire that existed from 1699 to 1868. The province included northern parts of present-day regions of Slavonia (today in Croatia) and Syrmia (today in Serbia and Croatia). The southern parts of these regions were part of the Slavonian Military Frontier, which was a section of the Military Frontier.\n\nThe Kingdom of Slavonia was bounded by the Kingdom of Croatia to the west, the Kingdom of Hungary to the north and the east, and by the Ottoman Empire to the south. Together with the Slavonian Military Frontier it had about 6600 sq. miles. It was divided into the three counties of Požega, Virovitica and Syrmia. Besides a chain of mountains in the middle of the province, the remaining part of Slavonian Kingdom consisted of fertile eminences planted with vines and fruit trees and extensive plains.\n\nThe Kingdom of Slavonia was formed from territories that Habsburg Monarchy gained from Ottoman Empire by the Treaty of Karlowitz (1699), that ended the Great Turkish War. Initially, it was a separate Habsburg land under joint civil-military administration that lasted from 1699 to 1745. The inhabitants were exempted from taxes, but were bound to military service. In 1745, the full civil administration was introduced and Kingdom of Slavonia, as one of the Lands of the Crown of St. Stephen, was administratively included into both Kingdom of Croatia and Kingdom of Hungary. Following the 1868 Settlement (\"Nagodba\") with the Kingdom of Hungary, Kingdom of Slavonia was joined with Kingdom of Croatia into the single Kingdom of Croatia-Slavonia, which although it was under the suzerainty of the Crown of Saint Stephen kept a significant level of self-rule.\n\nAfter the end of the Great Turkish War, Slavonia was left desolated as around 80% of its pre-war population fled. In order to improve its demographics, people that fled from Slavonia and whose property was taken by the Ottomans were allowed to return to their lands if they had valid ownership documents. Settlers from Bosnia also started migrating to Slavonia, fleeing from the Ottomans. In 1691 around 22,300 Catholics from Bosnian Posavina moved to Slavonia. It is estimated that around 40,000 people lived in Slavonia in 1696. In 1698 its population increased to 80,000.\n\nThe 1802 Austrian population data for the Kingdom of Slavonia recorded 148,000 (51.6%) Catholics, 135,000 (47.2%) Orthodox and 3,500 (1.2%) Protestants.\n\nAccording to other statistical estimations, in 1787 in civil Slavonia there were 265,670 inhabitants, and in 1804/1805 there were 286,349 inhabitants, but from that number clergy and nobility were excluded. Only men were counted in that census. There were: 74,671 Roman Catholics, 68,390 Orthodox Christians, 1,744 Calvinists, 97 Lutherans and 160 Jews. Number of Orthodox Christians was higher in Syrmia: 32,090 Orthodox Christians and 12,633 Roman Catholics. In other two counties of Slavonia: Požega and Virovitica, as in city of Požega, Roman Catholics outnumbered Orthodox population.\n\nThe official Austrian census of 1857 for Kingdom of Slavonia gives the following results (a section of Syrmia was in 1857 part of the Voivodeship of Serbia and Banat of Temeschwar):\n\nPožega County\n\n\nOsijek County\n\n\nThe Kingdom of Slavonia was mostly an agricultural land, just like Kingdom of Croatia, and it was known for its silk production. Agriculture and the breeding of cattle were the most profitable occupations of the inhabitants. It produced corn of all kinds, hemp, flax, tobacco, and great quantities of liquorice. The quantity of wine produced was also large, especially in the county of Srem. In 1857 industrial employment (11.01%) was highest in the County of Osijek, while 72.3% were employed in agriculture (82.9% in the Požega County).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2126366", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126366", "title": "UTFO", "text": "UTFO\n\nUTFO (an abbreviation for Untouchable Force Organization) was an American old-school hip hop group from Brooklyn, New York City.\n\nThe group consisted of Kangol Kid (Shiller Shaun Fequiere), Educated Rapper (Jeffrey Campbell), Doctor Ice (Fred Reeves), and Mix Master Ice (Maurice Bailey). The group's best-known single is \"Roxanne, Roxanne,\" a widely acclaimed and hip hop classic, which created a sensation on the hip hop scene soon after it was released and inspired a record-high of 25 answer records in a single year (Roxanne Wars), with estimates ultimately spawning over 100. The most notable remake was done by Marley Marl's protégée Roxanne Shanté, which led to hip hop's first rap beef. \"Roxanne, Roxanne\" was originally the B-side of the lesser-known single \"Hangin' Out.\" Due to personal issues, Educated Rapper was absent for its second effort, \"Skeezer Pleezer\" (1986), which produced one notable track with the song \"Split Personality.\" EMD was, however, on one album track, \"Pick Up The Pace\", also featured in the movie \"Krush Groove\".\n\nIn 2008, “Roxanne, Roxanne” was ranked number 84 on VH1's 100 Greatest Songs of Hip Hop.\n\nKangol Kid and Doctor Ice were originally known as The Keystone Dancers and were a dance duet, before going on to be dancers for Whodini. Eventually, they went on to form UTFO in their hometown of Brooklyn, New York City, New York. In 1984, the group signed with Fred Munao's Select Records, and, in the same year, it released its hit single \"Roxanne Roxanne.\" The group's debut album was produced by R&B group Full Force. Full Force brought in New York's sound and sampling wizard, Gary Pozner, to help create the sounds and the beats. This was one of the first instances of the new sampling machine, the E-mu Emulator, used on a commercially released record.\n\nWhile UTFO no longer operates as a group, it is all still very active in the field. Doc is currently back to dancing for Whodini while also pursuing his solo career. Mixmaster Ice DJs in Columbus, Ohio, and around the world. Kangol Kid still writes and produces; With Shaunda Lumpkin he founded the Mama Luke Foundation, hip hop's weapon against Breast Cancer.\n\nOn June 3, 2017, Campbell died following a battle with cancer.\n\nThe members of UTFO were the first breakdancers to appear on \"The Phil Donahue Show\".\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2126374", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126374", "title": "Jock Hutchison", "text": "Jock Hutchison\n\nJack Falls \"Jock\" Hutchison (June 6, 1884 – September 27, 1977) was a Scottish professional golfer.\n\nHutchison was born in St Andrews, Fife, Scotland, the son of William and Helen (née Falls). His name was registered as John Waters Hutchison, Waters being the maiden name of William's mother. He appears in the 1901 census as John Hutchison, golf caddie. He had an older brother who was also a golf player, Tom Hutchinson. Hutchison later moved to the United States and became a naturalized citizen in 1920. He was known there as Jack Falls Hutchison or John Falls Hutchison. He won two major championships, the PGA Championship in 1920 and the Open Championship at St Andrews in 1921. His 1921 victory was the first by a U.S.-based player; the following year Walter Hagen became the first U.S.-born winner.\n\nIn 1937, Hutchison won the inaugural PGA Seniors' Championship at Augusta National Golf Club, and in 1947 he won that event for a second time.\n\nBeginning in 1963, Hutchison was one of the two men who served as honorary starters for The Masters (along with 1908 U.S. Open champion Fred McLeod), until ailments prevented him from hitting one of the honorary tee shots in 1973. His death on September 27, 1977 came just two days before Masters co-founder Clifford Roberts' own death.\n\nHutchison died at the age of 93 in Evanston, Illinois. He was inducted into the World Golf Hall of Fame in 2011.\n\n\n\n\n Hutchison defeated Wethered in a 36-hole playoff by nine strokes: Hutchison 74-6=150; Wethered 77-82=159.<br>\n\"Note: The PGA Championship was match play until 1958\"\n\nNYF = Tournament not yet founded<br>\nNT = No tournament<br>\nWD = Withdrew<br>\nCUT = missed the half-way cut<br>\nR64, R32, R16, QF, SF = Round in which player lost in PGA Championship match play<br>\n\"T\" indicates a tie for a place\n"}
{"id": "2126377", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126377", "title": "Michael Lynagh", "text": "Michael Lynagh\n\nMichael Patrick Thomas Lynagh, AM (born 25 October 1963) is an Australian former rugby union footballer who played mainly as a fly-half.\n\nLynagh represented Australia from 1984 to 1995, playing at both inside centre and fly half. Lynagh was capped 72 times for Australia, and was captain from 1993 to 1995. He was the world points scoring record holder when he retired, with 911 points. Lynagh was a member of the 1984 Grand Slam-winning team and was vice-captain when Australia won the 1991 World Cup. Until Marty Roebuck took over the kicking duties, he scored in every test he played in, including a try against Wales in 1984 when he was temporarily relieved of kicking responsibilities.\n\nHe retired from international rugby after Australia's loss to England in the quarter-final of the 1995 Rugby World Cup.\n\nLynagh attended St. Joseph's College, Gregory Terrace in Brisbane and played fly-half in the school's first XV from Year 10 to Year 12 (1979–1981). Terrace won the GPS premiership five years straight from 1977 to 1981 with Lynagh playing in the final 3 years and was captain in his last year. Lynagh also played First XI Cricket from Year 9 to Year 12 and was captain in his final year.\nDuring his studies at Queensland University, Lynagh worked as a boarding master at Nudgee College Brisbane together with another union great Michael O'Connor who at that time made the decision to opt for the League game.\n\nAfter school he played first grade for University of Queensland and represented Queensland from 1982–1995. Lynagh was a member of Queensland's Super 6 and Super 10-winning sides.\n\nOn 9 June 1984, at the age of 20, Lynagh made his debut for Australia against Fiji in Suva. Early in his career he played at inside centre as Mark Ella was the fly-half; when Ella retired after the 1984 Grand Slam, Lynagh took over as fly-half.\n\nIn 1991, he joined Italian club Benetton Treviso. He played for five years with the club and won the Italian championship at 1991-92 season.\n\nIn 1996, Lynagh joined Saracens of England at the advent of professionalism, after retiring from a glittering 12-year international career with Australia as the world record points scorer with 911 and a World Cup winner (1991).\n\nLynagh's arrival at the club was the first major signing after Nigel Wray took control of the club and he acted as a beacon to attract other players and fans alike. Lynagh helped Saracens to have their most successful season to date.\n\nIn the 1997/98 season Saracens battled it out with Newcastle Falcons for almost the whole season for top spot in the league and when the two sides met in front of a crowd of nearly 20,000 Lynagh slotted a match winning drop goal in the dying minutes to send Vicarage Road into raptures. A month later he was on hand to steer Saracens to their famous Tetley's Bitter Cup 48–18 victory over Wasps at Twickenham, bringing the curtain down on a season to remember.\n\nHe is now Managing Director, Dow Jones Corporate EMEA. \nHe is also a TV rugby analyst for Sky Sports UK. \nOn 18 April 2012 Lynagh was admitted to the Royal Brisbane Hospital after experiencing sudden onset of headache, dizziness and visual disturbance after a coughing fit. There it was diagnosed that he had suffered a life-threatening stroke due to vertebral artery dissection. Lynagh was released from hospital on Wednesday 2 May 2012, having largely recovered apart from a left hemianopsia (loss of the left half of the vision in both eyes).\n\nLynagh was made a Member of the Order of Australia in 1996, inducted into the Sport Australia Hall of Fame in 1999, and received an Australian Sports Medal in 2000. He was inducted into the International Rugby Hall of Fame in 2001 and the Wallaby Hall of Fame in 2013.\n\nBob Dwyer, former Australian rugby coach, in his first autobiography \"The Winning Way\", claimed Michael Lynagh to be one of the five most accomplished Australian rugby union players he had ever seen. Dwyer ranked Lynagh number one \"for his range of point-scoring skills...\"\n\nIn 2007 Will Carling, former captain of England, listed Lynagh as one of the 50 greatest rugby union players of all-time. Carling ranked Lynagh at number 41 writing that he was a \"Great tactician, great kicker, very underrated runner, [and] pivot of 1991 World Cup-winning side.\"\n\nIn 2003, News Limited Newspapers the Daily Telegraph in Sydney and the Courier-Mail in Brisbane ranked the top 100 Australian rugby players of all-time. The list was decided by a panel consisting of former Wallabies flanker and coach Dave Brockhoff; former Test back-rower and captain Tony Shaw, World Cup-winning coach Bob Dwyer; former Wallabies forward, assistant Test coach and former Queensland administrator and head coach Jeff Miller; former Australian Rugby Union president, former NSW coach and ex-Test forward Peter Crittle; Courier-Mail rugby writer Jim Tucker and Daily Telegraph rugby writer Peter Jenkins. Michael Lynagh was ranked among the top 10 greatest Australian rugby union players of all-time.\n\n"}
{"id": "2126410", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126410", "title": "Philippe Sella", "text": "Philippe Sella\n\nPhilippe Sella (born 14 February 1962, in Tonneins) started life as a rugby league junior in his home town before switching to rugby union. As a former French rugby union player, he held the record for most international appearances until beaten by Jason Leonard. He became a member of the International Rugby Hall of Fame in 1999, and the IRB Hall of Fame in 2008.\nSella joined Saracens in 1996 from French side Agen. He and Australian Michael Lynagh were the catalysts for Saracens as they made the transition into the professional era, and Sella's presence helped other players make up their minds about joining the up-and-coming club.\n\nHe made a then world record 111 appearances (or caps) for France, and is one of only five players to have scored a try in every game during a Five Nations season.\n\nSella was the linchpin in the midfield where he operated alongside stalwart Steve Ravenscroft. His experience, pace and vision helped Saracens to become a potent force in 1998 and his appetite for defence was amazing.\n\nHe scored the opening try in the Tetley's Bitter Cup final in the same year, a trademark Sella finish. He showed pace, power and vision to run, swivel and crash over the line with his try then signalling the way for the floodgates to open.\n\nHe retired from rugby union later that year at the age of 36 and returned to France with his family.\n\n"}
{"id": "2126411", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126411", "title": "James Foulis", "text": "James Foulis\n\nJames Foulis (22 August 1871 – 3 March 1928) was a Scottish-American professional golfer who won the second U.S. Open in 1896. He also finished tied for third in the inaugural 1895 U.S. Open held at Newport Golf Club in Newport, Rhode Island. \n\nFoulis was born at the \"Home of Golf\", St Andrews in Scotland, on 22 August 1871. His father was foreman at Old Tom Morris's golf shop and clubmaking business, and Foulis spent some time working at the shop. In 1895 he traveled to the United States to take up a job as a golf professional at Chicago Golf Club, which was the first club in the United States to have an 18-hole course. He was the first golf professional in the western States.\n\nFoulis was one of the eleven players who took part in the first U.S. Open in 1895, and he came third. The following year he won the tournament at Shinnecock Hills Golf Club on Long Island. He was representing the Chicago Golf Club and he won $200. He was helped out by the fact that twice British Open champion Willie Park, Jr., who would have been odds-on favorite if he had reached the United States in time to play, did not arrive in America until the day after the tournament. The following year the Open was played at Foulis's home club, and he finished tied for third with Willie Dunn, Jr. The most notable aspect of his game was his driving; it is said that he often drove over three hundred yards using the relatively primitive clubs of his day. He continued to compete in the U.S. Open until 1911, but did not win again.\n\nJim Foulis and his brother David ran a golf shop at the Chicago Golf Club, and played a significant part in the evolution of golf equipment. They invented the bramble patterning for Coburn Haskell's new rubber-cored ball. In response to the demands of the new ball they developed the \"mashie-niblick\", the modern 7-iron, which fell between the traditional mashie (5-iron) and niblick (9-iron), and patented the design. Jim Foulis also worked as a golf course designer from 1896 until his death, designing the first golf courses in many communities across the American midwest.\n\nFoulis had four brothers, all of whom also moved to the United States. Robert and David were also golf professionals, Simpson was a fine amateur golfer, and John was an expert ballmaker who also worked as a bookkeeper at Chicago Golf Club from 1901 to his untimely death in 1907. All five brothers are buried in Wheaton Cemetery, adjacent to Chicago Golf Club. His nephew, Jim, son of brother David, also a professional golfer, won the 1933 St. Paul Open.\n\nFoulis died on 3 March 1928. He is remembered as the winner of the 1896 U.S. Open. He finished third in the 1895 U.S. Open and was an inventor of golf equipment.\n\nFoulis played only in the U.S. Open.\nDNP = Did not play<br>\nWD = Withdrew<br>\n\"T\" indicates a tie for a place<br>\nGreen background for wins. Yellow background for top-10\n\n"}
{"id": "2126415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126415", "title": "Red House Painters (Rollercoaster)", "text": "Red House Painters (Rollercoaster)\n\nRed House Painters (also known as Rollercoaster or Red House Painters I to distinguish it from the second eponymous album, known as \"Bridge\" or \"Red House Painters II\") is the second album by the group Red House Painters, released on May 24, 1993 by 4AD. A double album, \"Red House Painters\" features fourteen songs culled from bandleader Mark Kozelek's back-catalog, and received highly positive reviews from critics upon release.\n\nThe album follows Red House Painters' 1992 debut \"Down Colorful Hill\", and the recording sessions spawned twenty-three songs culled from leader/producer Mark Kozelek's back-catalog, fourteen of which comprised the \"Rollercoaster\" album. Eight songs left over from the recording sessions would make up the band's second self-titled album. Kozelek's lyrics focus on themes of pain, desolation and loss, while musically the album runs from the folk-pop of \"Grace Cathedral Park\" to the shoegaze of \"Mistress\" to the stark \"New Jersey\" and onto the soundscapes of \"Funhouse\" and \"Mother\". Kozelek said of the recording sessions, \"It was a nightmare, because the initial excitement of recording twenty-three songs became, 'one down, twenty-two to go' ... And I was nervous that people were now paying attention, but Ivo [Watts-Russell, 4AD label owner] made helpful suggestions and never demanded anything. If we went over budget, we went over budget.\" Watts-Russell also suggested the album be a double album, and compiled the track listing himself.\n\nKozelek discussed his views of the album in the foreword of the 2002 and revised 2008 editions of his book of lyrics, \"Nights of Passed Over\": \"... I know the \"Rollercoaster\" album is many people's favorite. But for me, it is and will always be the most difficult to get through. I hadn't heard it in years, and though there are some beautiful things I had forgotten about -- a delicate piano in \"Things Mean a Lot\", the way the band brings life to \"Brown Eyes\" midway through, and the chorus of \"Strawberry Hill\", which was sung by a group of strangers we gathered from outside the Divisadero Street studio where we were recording—what I remembered most, even when I look at the album's cover, is nine months of worry.\"\n\nThe album cover is a sepia-toned picture of the now-demolished Thunderbolt roller coaster at Coney Island.\n\nIn a contemporary review, Jim Greer of \"Spin\" wrote that \"Red House Painters\" \"rewards patient listening with a rare and sublime ecstasy.\" The album peaked at number 63 upon its initial release on the UK Albums Chart in 1993.\n\nMarc Hawthorne of \"The A.V. Club\" later cited \"Red House Painters\" as Mark Kozelek's \"crowning achievement in a discography that has placed him alongside the greatest songwriters of all time\". In a 5-star review, Jason Ankeny of AllMusic hailed the album as a \"sprawling, remarkable set distinguished by Mark Kozelek's continuing maturation as a songwriter\" and concluded that \"the songs resonate with depth and poignancy, and rank as Kozelek's most fully realized collection of compositions.\" In September 2010, \"Pitchfork\" included \"Katy Song\" at number 162 on their Top 200 Tracks of the 1990s.\n\n\nThough no other credits are printed on the release, the following is a \"de facto\" list of the performers on the album:\n\nAlthough no commercial singles were ever released from the album, a promotional-only CD was issued for \"Mistress\" in the US in 1993. The single features a different mix of \"Mistress\" as well as the piano version, along with the album version of \"Grace Cathedral Park\". While the sleeve lists \"Strawberry Hill\" as the album version, it is in fact an edit, which removes roughly 50 seconds of guitar noise in the beginning of the song.\n\nWarner Bros./4AD, PRO-CD-6108:\n"}
{"id": "2126430", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126430", "title": "Jim Foulis", "text": "Jim Foulis\n\nJames R. Foulis (October 6, 1903 – April 12, 1969) was an American professional golfer. He was the son of David Foulis and nephew of James Foulis, winner of the 1896 U.S. Open. His son David J. Foulis is a notable mathematician.\n\nJames Foulis was born in Illinois on October 6, 1903, the son of David Foulis and Janet Foulis (née Fowler).\n\nFoulis won several tournaments, including four Illinois PGA Championships and the 1933 St. Paul Open, two of which are considered PGA Tour wins.\n\nHe played in the first Masters Tournament in 1934, carding rounds of 78-74-76-72=300.\n\nHe died on April 12, 1969 in Wickenburg, Arizona.\n\n\"Note: This list may be incomplete\"\n\n\"Note: Foulis never played in The Open Championship\"<br>\nNYF = tournament not yet founded<br>\nNT = no tournament<br>\nCUT = missed the half-way cut<br>\nR64, R32, R16, QF, SF = round in which player lost in PGA Championship match play<br>\n\"T\" indicates a tie for a place\n\n"}
{"id": "2126472", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126472", "title": "John Shippen", "text": "John Shippen\n\nJohn Matthew Shippen Jr. (December 2, 1879 – May 20, 1968) was an American golfer who competed in several of the early U.S. Opens. Born in Washington D.C., he was the son of Presbyterian minister John Shippen Sr. and Eliza Spotswood Shippen.\n\nShippen's best finishes came at the 1896 U.S. Open held at Shinnecock Hills Golf Club in Southampton, New York, and the \n1902 U.S. Open held at Garden City Golf Club in Garden City, New York, where he tied for fifth place at both.\n\nWhen he was nine his father was sent to serve as minister on the Shinnecock Indian Reservation—close to Shinnecock Hills—one of America's earliest golf clubs. John Jr. worked as a caddie at the course and was taught to play by the club's Scottish professional, Willie Dunn Jr.\n\nThe Shinnecock Hills course was chosen to host the second U.S. Open in 1896. Shippen played superb golf, finishing in fifth place. Prior to the start of the tournament, some club members had been so impressed with Shippen's talent for the game that they decided to pay his entry fee for the tournament, along with that of his close friend, Oscar Bunn, a Shinnecock Indian. Shippen was allowed to play because he registered as an Indian (his mother was Shinnecock) rather than as a black.\n\nWhen the professional entrants for the competition found out a racial controversy had begun and they threatened to boycott the event, but they backed down after USGA president Theodore Havemeyer stated that the tournament would proceed even if only Shippen and Dunn took part. Shippen was paired with Charles B. Macdonald, winner of the first U.S. Amateur in 1895. He was tied for second place after the first of the two rounds, and remained in contention until he drove his ball onto a sandy road at the 13th hole and scored an eleven. If he had made par on that hole, he would have made a playoff for the championship, but he still finished in a tie for fifth and won $25 as the fourth-placed non-amateur. Scottish-born James Foulis won the $150 first prize.\n\nShippen played in five more U.S. Opens, and his best finish was a tie for fifth in 1902. He made his career in golf and served as professional at several clubs, the last of which was Shady Rest Golf Course in New Jersey, where he worked from 1932 until the club was acceded to the township of Scotch Plains in 1964. As a professional, Shippen made and sold his own clubs which bore a stamp reading \"J. M. Shippen\".\n\nNo other African-American played in the Open until Ted Rhodes took part in 1948.\n\nIn 2009, the PGA of America granted posthumous membership to Shippen, Rhodes, and Bill Spiller who were denied the opportunity to become PGA members during their professional careers. The PGA also granted posthumous honorary membership to boxer Joe Louis.\n\nWhen the U.S. Open was played at Shinnecock Hills in 1986, Shippen was remembered during the ABC television broadcast. Ironically, for many members of the former Shady Rest club, it was the first time they had learned of his accomplishments.\n\n\"Note: Shippen played only in the U.S. Open Championship.\"<br>\n\n\"T\" indicates a tie for a place<br>\n? = Unknown\nYellow background for top-10\n\n"}
{"id": "2126488", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126488", "title": "Tom Burke (Australian politician)", "text": "Tom Burke (Australian politician)\n\nThomas Patrick Burke (28 August 1910 – 17 January 1973) was a member of the Parliament of Australia.\n\nBurke was born at Berkshire Valley, near Moora, Western Australia. His birth name was Frederick Thomas, but he was informally renamed Patrick Thomas by his father, Peter Francis Burke, and he was always called Tom. He later formally changed his name to Thomas Patrick in 1963. He was educated by correspondence and at Miling State School and later worked as a cartage contractor while studying accountancy. In 1941, he married Madeline Muirson Orr. He enlisted in the Royal Australian Air Force in January 1943 and served with the ground staff at Kalgoorlie.\n\nBurke was elected at the 1943 election to the House of Representatives seat of Perth, representing the Labor Party. Although he had high aspirations he was not selected for the ministry during the Curtin and Chifley governments. A member of the party's right wing, he was a strong opponent of H. V. Evatt; and in 1955, at the time of the split in the ALP, was banned from representing the Western Australian branch at federal conferences of the party. Nevertheless, unlike various other Labor right-wingers, he did not join the Australian Labor Party (Anti-Communist) (later the DLP). At the 1955 election he was defeated by Fred Chaney.\n\nIn 1957, Burke was expelled from the party, but seven years later he regained his membership. He failed to gain Labor pre-selection for Perth in 1965 and 1968. Instead, he promoted his sons' careers. Terry Burke became member for Perth from 1968 to 1987. Brian Burke became member for Balcatta in 1973 (later redistributed and renamed Balga) in the Western Australian Parliament and later served as state premier from February 1983 until February 1988.\n\nBurke lived long enough to see Labor return to government under Gough Whitlam in 1972. He died of myocardial infarction in Perth on 17 January 1973, survived by his wife, three sons and two daughters.\n"}
{"id": "2126494", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126494", "title": "Compostela, Davao de Oro", "text": "Compostela, Davao de Oro\n\n', officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nCompostela is politically subdivided into 16 barangays.\nThere are no written records as to how Compostela got its name. Folklore tells that the area was a temporary Spanish settlement, a \"Campo de Castila\" (literally, \"Field of Spaniards\") populated by Spaniards from what is now Davao Oriental. Another legend holds that a Spanish friar from the eastern coasts of Mindanao came to the place, bringing with him a statue of Saint James the Apostle, patron of his native Santiago de Compostela in Spain. The priest then christened the region after his own birthplace..\n\nCompostela is one of several towns sitting on the vast plains of Davao de Oro. Its development started before World War II, when the area was still a forest and the only inhabitants were indigenous Mandayas who chose to settle along the Agusan River.\n\nBefore the outbreak of World War II, the area in what is now the province which the town of Compostela currently belongs was one of the Bureau of Non-Christian Tribes for Mindanao. Its office was based at Dansalan, Lanao under the directorship of Teofisto Guingona, Sr., who was then exercising government control over provinces and municipal districts of Mindanao. However, the bureau was abolished right after the war. The valley was then formed into Compostela-Monkayo Districts and subdivided into three small districts: Monkayo, Compostela and Camansa. Compostela was governed by Mr. Bonifacio Garcia as the District Mayor appointed by the Governor of Davao which during that time was still one province with the capitol at Davao City. Local government functions were performed by the governor and the district mayors were only ceremonial leaders.\n\nRoad construction of the Davao-Agusan National Highway extended up to Camp Kalaw, a Philippine Constabulary detachment located at what is now the town of Monkayo. Compostela Proper, then the popular name of Compostela, was accessible via Agusan River with embarkation at Kilometer 106 (now Barangay Bankerohan Sur of Montevista). Settlers from Luzon and the Visayas started to settle in Compostela, lured by a promise of vast agricultural lands so fertile and rich if you are determined and able-bodied. That was in 1939 and some of those who came to settle in Compostela to tame the wilderness are the Garcia's of Talibon, Bohol; the Galenzoga's of Baybay, Leyte; the Maquilan's of Mandawe, Cebu; the Regaña's of Samar; the Estrada's of Luzon and the Bayubay's of Ilocos. These pioneers lived in harmony with the native Mandayas; among them were the Blanco's, the Manzanares', the Braose's, the Adao's and the Fabian's. Third generation of both these pioneers and natives are still in Compostela today.\n\nWhen World War II in the country broke out in 1942, most of the people evacuated to hinterlands of the valley leaving their farms behind. Also at this time, the Philippine Civil Assistance Unit (PCAU) established a civil government at Kilometer 90, now Nabunturan, and installed Juanito Regaña as the Municipal District Mayor of Compostela.\n\nAfter the war in 1945, the people came back to their farms which now became a virtual forest. Those who came back again tilled the soil and settled permanently in the place. Also during these times, Governor Antonio Lanzar appointed Mr. Formoso Piansay as Municipal District Mayor of Compostela.\n\nOn August 1, 1948, an Executive Order No. 156 was signed by then President Elpidio Quirino, organizing into four regular municipalities under the names of Compostela, New Leyte, Gov. Generoso and Trinidad, and the Municipal Districts of Compostela, Moncayo, Saug, Camansa, Surup, Sigaboy, Batulaki and Caburan, all in the Province of Davao, was soon made defunct and were either made, or joined, into regular municipalities.\n\nIn 1949, all municipal districts were abolished thus paving a way for the creation of new municipalities and Compostela with the seat of government at Km. 90 became a regular municipality with Mayor Lauro Arabejo as the appointed mayor. Compostela Proper then was only a barrio of the original Compostela municipality. It is accessible by boat powered by outboard motors that ply from Compostela Proper to Km. 106 via Agusan River. From Km. 106, people go to the government center at km. 90 Nabunturan by hiking or riding.\n\nThen in the early 1950s, road construction going to Compostela Proper started via km. 102 which is now Montevista. One of the engineers of the Bureau of Public Highways was Engineer Prospero S. Amatong.\n\nIn 1955, the barrio (barangay) of New Sabonga was transferred to this town from Asuncion.\n\nOn June 23, 1957, then President Carlos P. Garcia signed Republic Act No. 2038 which separated Compostela from Nabunturan. The first Mayor appointed by President Carlos P. Garcia was then Mayor Pio P. Galenzoga, one of the pioneer settlers.\n\nIn the same year the sitios of Kao, Magkagong, Margosan, Matilo, Magangit, Cabacungan, Tigbatinao and Camanlangan were constituted into a barrio known as Santo Niño.\n\nAt the time, Compostela was an incongruous mixture of wooden-roofed houses concentrated along the Agusan River which was properly known as \"dungguanan\" (embarkation). This area later became its center of trade and commerce or Poblacion.\n\nIn the , the population of Compostela was people, with a density of .\n\nThe first record of municipality's population enumerated in census was in 1939 with a total population of 2,716. Compostela then was still a municipal district composed of municipalities of the district.\n\nBy virtue of Executive Order 156 issued by President Elpidio Quirino, Compostela officially became a municipality on August 1, 1948.\n\nIn 1960, the municipality's recorded population was 20,444. This was attributed to the fact that the municipality started to emerge and the influx of settlers from all over the country flocked to the municipality owing to its vast land. Another factor that contributed to this population was the logging operation of Valderrama Lumber Manufacturers Co., Incorporated.\n\nIn 1970, the population of the town declined by -3,285 or -16.07 percent. This was attributed by the creation of the Municipality of New Bataan into a municipality taken from Compostela in 1966.\n\nApparently, the biggest increase in population of the municipality was in 1990 with a registered population of 53,546. There was an increase of 23,008 or 75.34 percent from the 1980s population. This remarkable increase was attributed by the thousands of gold prospectors flocked to Compostela when gold deposits was discovered in Sitios Kantigbao, Mambusao, Pulang-lupa and Bango of Barangay Ngan in 1983 to 1988.\n\nIn 1995, only 1,484 or 2.77 percent increase was recorded with an average growth rate of 0.55 percent.\n\nDuring the 1990 census, the municipality's population grew up to 61,667, posting an increase of 6,637 persons or 12.06 percent over the 1990 figure.\n\nAs of the 2010 census, Barangay Poblacion, being the only urban barangay, has the highest number of population among the sixteen (16) barangays of Compostela with 26,773 or 32.7 percent of the municipality's total population; it is followed by Barangay Ngan (9.4 percent) and Barangay San Miguel (9.0 percent). Barangay Panansalan, on the other hand, Barangay is the least populated barangay with 906 people of 1.1 percent to the total population.\n\nPoblacion, the most inhabited barangay has a population density of 52.0 persons per hectare, and Tamia, on the other hand, is the least densely populated barangay with 0.73 persons per hectare.\n\nIn 2000, males outnumbered females with a sex ratio of 106.26 males for every 100 females. Males dominated the age group 79 years and below while females in the age group 80 and over.\n\nAge group 5 to 9 dominated the municipality's total population with 14.34 percent share to the population. This is followed by age group 10-14 with 13.72 percent and then by those aged 15–19 years with 11.01 percent.\n\nOut of 45,010 household population 10 years old and over, 45.23 percent were single; 44.97 percent were married; 3.32 percent were widowed; 0.78 percent were separated; and those with other marital arrangements registered at 5.70 percent.\n\nSingle males prevailed over single females (55.47 percent), married (50.03 percent), separated (50.14 percent), and among those with other marital arrangements (50.95 percent). On contrary, most of the widowed were females (72.26 percent).\n\nSince its establishment the town slowly rose from a backward infant municipality into one of the progressive towns of the valley. Its vast flat lands become the major rice production area of Davao Province when the National Irrigation Administration-Asian Development Bank (NIA-ADB) constructed an irrigation system in the early part of 1970 that serve the south-western portion of the municipality. Also, cavendish bananas are produced here by the Ayala Conglomerate and Multi-National Dole (Stanfilco), Philippines, Incorporated. But its progress is owed much to the spirit of the people who came and stayed in Compostela. The realization of their dream is discerned today of the bustling urban center that can boast of modern amenities and updated educational centers.\n\nElected officials 2019-2022:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2126497", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126497", "title": "Laak, Davao de Oro", "text": "Laak, Davao de Oro\n\n', officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nThe town of Laak was founded in April 4, 1979 as San Vicente from several barangays of Monkayo, Montevista and Asuncion. Laak was created into a municipality by virtue of \"Batas Pambansa Bilang 23\". It was made part of the newly made Compostela Valley province in 1998. The original name that the pioneer residents used to call this place even before the very formation of its nucleus in 1965 is no other than the native name \"Laak\", derived from the name of a small thorn less bamboo. It is similar to but smaller than the bamboo called \"Lunas\" by the Bisayan tribes.\n\nThe name \"Laak\", however, was not adopted when this place was created into a municipality. The name San Vicente was instantly coined just to insure the passage of the law creating this place into a town. The term San was attached to the name Vicente after the name of the father of then First Lady Imelda Romualdez Marcos. Coincidentally, the law creating this town was approved on the eve of the feast day of Sr. San Vicente Ferrer.\n\nAs the town residents found no meaning in calling this place San Vicente, they unanimously approved during the plebiscite called for the purpose on May 28, 1994 the adoption of the name \"Laak\". Mayor Reynaldo B. Navarro, and the Sangguniang Bayan Members at that time led the move for the change of the name pursuant to the desire of the people.\n\nLaak, although it has an overall population of 70,856 in per census of 2010, is very isolated from other populated towns in its vicinity such as Monkayo and Nabunturan. The main cause of this is of its being a predominantly agricultural town; there are also some factors which contribute to its isolation such as its huge land area of 947.06 km.(94, 706 hectares) and its heavily forested geographical features.\n\nThe municipality borders Municipality of Kapalong, Davao del Norte, to the west; Province of Agusan del Sur to the north; Municipality of Montevista and Monkayo, Davao de Oro, to the southeast; and Municipality of San Isidro, Davao del Norte, to the south-west.\n\nLaak is politically subdivided into 40 barangays.\nIn the , the population of Laak, Compostela Valley, was people, with a density of .\n\nLaak’s economy is primarily driven by agriculture, with almost 65% of its income coming from agricultural sector (it includes agro-forestry, inland fishery and livestock raising) and business enterprises contribute only 35% of the municipality’s income.\n\nThe town of Laak is accessible by bus, passenger jeeps, and habal-habal motorcycles from both Tagum City and Trento, Agusan del Sur. Most passenger vehicles going to Laak had to pass the Tagum-Asuncion-San Isidro-Laak road since this road is one of the only two transportation accesses to the town, the other one being Loreto-Veruela-Trento road; the town does not have roads connecting to other towns of Compostela Valley, such as Nabunturan and Monkayo.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2126499", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126499", "title": "Mabini, Davao de Oro", "text": "Mabini, Davao de Oro\n\n', officially the ' (formerly Cuambog and Doña Alicia), is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nThe municipality is home to the Mabini Protected Landscape and Seascape.\n\nThe first people to occupy the area now known as Mabini were the Mansakas.\n\nThe settlement was formerly known as Cuambog, named after a tree species of the family Dilleniaceae.\n\nIn 1953, by virtue of Executive Order No. 596 of President Elpidio Quirino, the municipality was created from the eastern part of Tagum and the northern part of Pantukan. Barrio Cuambog became the seat of the municipal government. The municipality was named Doña Alicia after President Quirino's wife Alicia Syquia, who was killed by Japanese soldiers during the Second World War. In 1954, the municipality was renamed in honor of revolutionary leader Apolinario Mabini.\n\nIn 1967, the municipality of Maco was created from the northern barangays of Mabini.\n\nMabini was originally part of Davao province. It became part of Davao del Norte when Davao province was split in 1967. In 1998, Mabini became part of Compostela Valley, a new province which was created from Davao del Norte.\n\nMabini is politically subdivided into 11 barangays. In 1957, the sitios of Panibasan Proper and Andili became barrio Panibasan (Pindasan), the sitios of Cadunan Proper, Anislagan, Malabatuan and Lapinigan became barrio Cadunan, and the sitios of Tangnanan Proper, Mampising and Tagbalabao became barrio Tangnanan.\n\n\nIn the , the population of Mabini, Davao de Oro, was people, with a density of .\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2126501", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126501", "title": "Google Earth", "text": "Google Earth\n\nGoogle Earth is a computer program that renders a 3D representation of Earth based primarily on satellite imagery. The program maps the Earth by superimposing satellite images, aerial photography, and GIS data onto a 3D globe, allowing users to see cities and landscapes from various angles. Users can explore the globe by entering addresses and coordinates, or by using a keyboard or mouse. The program can also be downloaded on a smartphone or tablet, using a touch screen or stylus to navigate. Users may use the program to add their own data using Keyhole Markup Language and upload them through various sources, such as forums or blogs. Google Earth is able to show various kinds of images overlaid on the surface of the earth and is also a Web Map Service client. Recently Google has revealed that Google Earth now covers more than 98 percent of the world, and has captured 10 million miles of Street View imagery, a distance that could circle the globe more than 400 times.\n\nIn addition to Earth navigation, Google Earth provides a series of other tools through the desktop application. Additional globes for the Moon and Mars are available, as well as a tool for viewing the night sky. A flight simulator game is also included. Other features allow users to view photos from various places uploaded to Panoramio, information provided by Wikipedia on some locations, and Street View imagery. The web-based version of Google Earth also includes Voyager, a feature that periodically adds in-program tours, often presented by scientists and documentarians.\n\nGoogle Earth has been viewed by some as a threat to privacy and national security, leading to the program being banned in multiple countries. Some countries have requested that certain areas be obscured in Google's satellite images, usually areas containing military facilities.\n\nThe core technology behind Google Earth was originally developed at Intrinsic Graphics in the late 1990s. At the time, the company was developing 3D gaming software libraries. As a demo of their 3D software, they created a spinning globe that could be zoomed into, similar to the \"Powers of Ten\" film. The demo was popular, but the board of Intrinsic wanted to remain focused on gaming, so in 1999, they created Keyhole, Inc., headed by John Hanke. Keyhole then developed a way to stream large databases of mapping data over the internet to client software, a key part of the technology, and acquired patchworks of mapping data from governments and other sources. The product, called \"Keyhole EarthViewer\", was sold on CDs for use in fields such as real estate, urban planning, defense, and intelligence; users paid a yearly fee for the service. Despite making a number of capital deals with Nvidia and Sony, the small company was struggling to make payroll, and employees were leaving.\n\nFortunes for the company changed in early 2003 when CNN received a discount for the software in exchange for placing the Keyhole logo on-air whenever the map was used. Keyhole did not expect it would amount to more than brief 5- or 10-second prerecorded animation clips, but it was used extensively by Miles O'Brien live during the 2003 invasion of Iraq, allowing CNN and millions of viewers to follow the progress of the war in a way that had never been seen before. Public interest in the software exploded and Keyhole servers were not able to keep up with demand. Keyhole was soon contacted by the Central Intelligence Agency's venture capital firm, In-Q-Tel, and the National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency, for use with defense mapping databases, which gave Keyhole a much-needed cash infusion. Intrinsic Graphics was sold in 2003 to Vicarious Visions after its gaming libraries did not sell well, and its core group of engineers and management transitioned to Keyhole with Hanke remaining at the head.\n\nAt the time, Google was finding that over 25% of its searches were of a geospatial character, including searches for maps and directions. In October 2004, Google acquired Keyhole as part of a strategy to better serve its users.\n\nGoogle Earth's imagery is displayed on a digital globe, which displays the planet's surface using a single composited image from a far distance. After zooming in far enough, the imagery transitions into different imagery of the same area with finer detail, which varies in date and time from one area to the next. The imagery is retrieved from satellites or aircraft. Before the launch of NASA and the USGS's Landsat 8 satellite, Google relied partially on imagery from Landsat 7, which suffered from a hardware malfunction that left diagonal gaps in images. In 2013, Google used datamining to remedy the issue, providing what was described as a successor to the Blue Marble image of Earth, with a single large image of the entire planet. This was achieved by combining multiple sets of imagery taken from Landsat 7 to eliminate clouds and diagonal gaps, creating a single \"mosaic\" image. Google now uses Landsat 8 to provide imagery in a higher quality and with greater frequency. Imagery is hosted on Google's servers, which are contacted by the application when opened, requiring an Internet connection.\n\nImagery resolution ranges from 15 meters of resolution to 15 centimeters. For much of the Earth, Google Earth uses digital elevation model data collected by NASA's Shuttle Radar Topography Mission. This creates the impression of three-dimensional terrain, even where the imagery is only two-dimensional.\n\nGoogle Earth shows 3D building models in some cities, including photorealistic 3D imagery. The first 3D buildings in Google Earth were created using 3D modeling applications such as SketchUp and, beginning in 2009, Building Maker, and were uploaded to Google Earth via the 3D Warehouse. In June 2012, Google announced that it would be replacing user-generated 3D buildings with an auto-generated 3D mesh. This would be phased in, starting with select larger cities, with the notable exception of cities such as London and Toronto which required more time to process detailed imagery of their vast number of buildings. The reason given is to have greater uniformity in 3D buildings and to compete with Nokia Here and Apple Maps, which were already using this technology. The coverage began that year in 21 cities in four countries. By early 2016, 3D imagery had been expanded to hundreds of cities in over 40 countries, including every U.S. state and encompassing every continent except Antarctica.\n\nIn 2009, in a collaboration between Google and the Museo del Prado in Madrid, the museum selected 14 of its paintings to be photographed and displayed at the resolution of 14,000 megapixels inside the 3D version of the Prado in Google Earth and Google Maps.\n\nOn April 15, 2008, with version 4.3, Google fully integrated Street View into Google Earth. Street View displays 360° panoramic street-level photos of select cities and their surroundings. The photos were taken by cameras mounted on automobiles, can be viewed at different scales and from many angles, and are navigable by arrow icons imposed on them.\n\nUsing the Street View on Google Earth, users have the opportunity to visit and explore 30 UNESCO world heritage sites with historical context and pins for each one. The sites include, The Great Pyramid, The Taj Mahal, Sagrada Família, The Dolomites, The Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew, The Great Sphinx and etc.\n\nIntroduced in Google Earth 5.0 in 2009, the Google Ocean feature allows users to zoom below the surface of the ocean and view the 3D bathymetry. Supporting over 20 content layers, it contains information from leading scientists and oceanographers. On April 14, 2009, Google added bathymetric data for the Great Lakes.\n\nIn June 2011, Google increased the resolution of some deep ocean floor areas from 1-kilometer grids to 100 meters. The high-resolution features were developed by oceanographers at Columbia University's Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory from scientific data collected on research cruises. The sharper focus is available for about 5 percent of the oceans. This can be seen in the Hudson off New York City, the Wini Seamount near Hawaii, and the Mendocino Ridge off the U.S. Pacific coast.\n\nGoogle has programs and features, including within Google Earth, allowing exploration of Mars, the Moon, the view of the sky from Earth and outer space, including the surfaces of various objects in the Solar System.\n\nGoogle Sky is a feature that was introduced in Google Earth 4.2 on August 22, 2007, in a browser-based application on March 13, 2008, and to Android smartphones, with augmented reality features. Google Sky allows users to view stars and other celestial bodies. It was produced by Google through a partnership with the Space Telescope Science Institute (STScI) in Baltimore, the science operations center for the Hubble Space Telescope. Dr. Alberto Conti and his co-developer Dr. Carol Christian of STScI planned to add the public images from 2007, as well as color images of all of the archived data from Hubble's Advanced Camera for Surveys. Then-newly released Hubble pictures was added to the Google Sky program as soon as they are issued.\n\nNew features such as multi-wavelength data, positions of major satellites and their orbits as well as educational resources are provided to the Google Earth community and also through Christian and Conti's website for Sky. Also visible on Sky mode are constellations, stars, galaxies, and animations depicting the planets in their orbits. A real-time Google Sky mashup of recent astronomical transients, using the VOEvent protocol, is provided by the VOEventNet collaboration. Other programs similar to Google Sky include Microsoft WorldWide Telescope and Stellarium.\n\nGoogle Mars is an application within Google Earth that is a version of the program for imagery of the planet Mars. Google also operates a browser-based version, although the maps are of a much higher resolution within Google Earth, and include 3D terrain, as well as infrared imagery and elevation data. There are also some extremely high-resolution images from the Mars Reconnaissance Orbiter's HiRISE camera that are of a similar resolution to those of the cities on Earth. Finally, there are many high-resolution panoramic images from various Mars landers, such as the Mars Exploration Rovers, \"Spirit\" and \"Opportunity\", that can be viewed in a similar way to Google Street View.\n\nMars also has a small application found near the face on Mars. It is called Meliza, a robot character the user can speak with.\n\nOriginally a browser application, Google Moon is a feature that allows exploration of the Moon. Google brought the feature to Google Earth for the 40th anniversary of the Apollo 11 mission on July 20, 2009. It was announced and demonstrated to a group of invited guests by Google along with Buzz Aldrin at the Newseum in Washington, D.C. Google Moon includes several tours, including one for the Apollo missions, incorporating maps, videos, and Street View-style panoramas, all provided by NASA.\n\nGoogle Earth has numerous features which allow the user to learn about specific places. These are called \"layers\", and include different forms of media, including photo and video. Some layers include tours, which guide the user between specific places in a set order. Layers are created using the Keyhole Markup Language, or KML, which users can also use to create customized layers. Locations can be marked with placemarks and organized in folders; For example, a user can use placemarks to list interesting landmarks around the globe, then provide a description with photos and videos, which can be viewed by clicking on the placemarks while viewing the new layer in the application.\n\nIn December 2006, Google Earth added a new integration with Wikipedia and Panoramio. For the Wikipedia layer, entries are scraped for coordinates via the . There is also a community layer from the project . More coordinates are used, different types are in the display, and different languages are supported than the built-in Wikipedia layer. The Panoramio layer features pictures uploaded by Panoramio users, placed in Google Earth based on user-provided location data. In addition to flat images, Google Earth also includes a layer for user-submitted panoramic photos, navigable in a similar way to Street View.\n\nGoogle Earth includes multiple features that allow the user to monitor current events. In 2007, Google began offering users the ability to monitor traffic data provided by Google Traffic in real time, based on information crowdsourced from the GPS-identified locations of cell phone users.\n\nIn Google Earth 4.2, a flight simulator was added to the application. It was originally a hidden feature when introduced in 2007, but starting with 4.3, it was given a labeled option in the menu. In addition to keyboard control, the simulator can be controlled with a mouse or joystick. The simulator also runs with animation, allowing objects such as planes to animate while on the simulator.\n\nAnother flight simulator, GeoFS, was created under the name GEFS-Online using the Google Earth Plug-in API to operate within a web browser. As of September 1, 2015, the program now uses the open-source program CesiumJS, due to the Google Earth Plug-in being discontinued.\n\nLiquid Galaxy is a cluster of computers running Google Earth creating an immersive experience. On September 30, 2010, Google made the configuration and schematics for their rigs public, placing code and setup guides on the Liquid Galaxy wiki. Liquid Galaxy has also been used as a panoramic photo viewer using KRpano, as well as a Google Street View viewer using Peruse-a-Rue Peruse-a-Rue is a method for synchronizing multiple Maps API clients.\n\nGoogle Earth has been released on macOS, Linux, iOS, and Android. The Linux version began with the version 4 beta of Google Earth, as a native port using the Qt toolkit. The Free Software Foundation consider the development of a free compatible client for Google Earth to be a High Priority Free Software Project. Google Earth was released for Android on February 22, 2010, and on iOS on October 27, 2008. The mobile versions of Google Earth can make use of multi-touch interfaces to move on the globe, zoom or rotate the view, and allow to select the current location. An automotive version of Google Earth was made available in the 2010 Audi A8. On February 27, 2020, Google opened up its web-based version of Earth to browsers like Firefox, Edge, and Opera.\n\nGoogle Earth Pro was originally the business-oriented upgrade to Google Earth, with features such as a movie maker and data importer. Up until late January 2015, it was available for $399/year, though Google decided to make it free to the public. Google Earth Pro is currently the standard version of the Google Earth desktop application as of version 7.3. The Pro version includes add-on software for movie making, advanced printing, and precise measurements, and is currently available for Windows, Mac OS X 10.8 or later, and Linux.\n\nDiscontinued in December 2008, Google Earth Plus was a paid subscription upgrade to Google Earth that provided customers with the following features, most of which have become available in the free Google Earth. One such feature was GPS integration, which allowed users to read tracks and waypoints from a GPS device. A variety of third-party applications have been created which provide this functionality using the basic version of Google Earth by generating KML or KMZ files based on user-specified or user-recorded waypoints.\n\nGoogle Earth Enterprise is designed for use by organizations whose businesses could take advantage of the program's capabilities, for example by having a globe that holds company data available for anyone in that company. As of March 20, 2015, Google has retired the Google Earth Enterprise product, with support ended on March 22, 2017. Google Earth Enterprise allowed developers to create maps and 3D globes for private use, and host them through the platform. GEE Fusion, GEE Server, and GEE Portable Server source code was published on GitHub under the Apache2 license in March 2017.\n\nGoogle Earth 9 is a version of Google Earth first released on April 18, 2017, having been in development for two years. The main feature of this version was the launching of a new web version of Google Earth, which is currently only available for Google Chrome. This version added the \"Voyager\" feature, whereby users can view a portal page containing guided tours led by scientists and documentarians. The version also added an \"I'm Feeling Lucky\" button, represented by a die, which takes the user to a random location on earth along with showing them a \"Knowledge Card\" containing a short excerpt from the location's Wikipedia article.\n\nThe Google Earth API was a free beta service, allowing users to place a version of Google Earth into web pages. The API enabled sophisticated 3D map applications to be built. At its unveiling at Google's 2008 I/O developer conference, the company showcased potential applications such as a game where the player controlled a milktruck atop a Google Earth surface. The Google Earth API has been deprecated as of December 15, 2014 and remained supported until December 15, 2015. Google Chrome ended support for the Netscape Plugin API (which the Google Earth API relies on) by the end of 2016.\n\nOn November 16, 2016, Google released a virtual reality version of Google Earth for Valve's Steam computer gaming platform. Google Earth VR allows users to navigate using VR controllers, and is currently compatible with the Oculus Rift and HTC Vive virtual reality headsets. On September 14, 2017, as part of Google Earth VR's 1.4 update, Google added Street View support.\n\nGoogle Earth Outreach is a charity program, through which Google promotes and donates to various non-profit organizations. Beginning in 2007, donations are often accompanied by layers featured in Google Earth, allowing users to view a non-profit's projects and goals by navigating to certain related locations. Google Earth Outreach offers online training on using Google Earth and Google Maps for public education on issues affecting local regions or the entire globe. In June 2008, training was given to 20 indigenous tribes in the Amazon rainforest, such as the Suruí, to help them preserve their culture and raise awareness for the problem of deforestation.\n\nNon-profit organizations featured in Google Earth via the Outreach program include Arkive, the Global Heritage Fund, WaterAid, and the World Wide Fund for Nature.\n\nGoogle Earth Engine is a cloud computing platform for processing satellite imagery and other geospatial and observation data. It provides access to a large database of satellite imagery and the computational power needed to analyze those images. Google Earth Engine allows observation of dynamic changes in agriculture, natural resources, and climate using geospatial data from the Landsat satellite program, which passes over the same places on the Earth every sixteen days. Google Earth Engine has become a platform that makes Landsat and Sentinel-2 data easily accessible to researchers in collaboration with the Google Cloud Storage. Google Earth Engine provides a data catalog along with computers for analysis; this allows scientists to collaborate using data, algorithms, and visualizations. The platform uses Python and Javascript application programming interfaces for making requests to the servers.\n\nGoogle Earth Engine has been used multiple times as a tool for tracking deforestation. Initial applications of the engine have included mapping the forests of Mexico, identifying water in the Congo basin, and detecting deforestation in the Amazon rainforest. Using Google Earth Engine to track global forest loss or gain, the University of Maryland reported an overall loss in global forest cover. The Carnegie Institute for Science's CLASlite system and Imazon’s Sisteme de Alerta de Deforesation (SAD) are two institutions that partnered with Google in the development of Google Earth Engine. Both organizations use the program to build maps of forests that measure environmental disturbances. Additionally, Google Earth Engine has been expanded to further applications. These include: Tiger Habitat Monitoring, Malaria Risk Mapping, Global Surface Water, and increases in vegetation around Mount Everest.\n\nThe software has been criticized by a number of special interest groups, including national officials, as being an invasion of privacy or posing a threat to national security. The typical argument is that the software provides information about military or other critical installations that could be used by terrorists. Google Earth has been blocked by Google in Iran and Sudan since 2007, due to United States government export restrictions. The program has also been blocked in Morocco since 2006 by Maroc Telecom, a major service provider in the country.\n\nIn the academic realm, increasing attention has been devoted to both Google Earth and its place in the development of digital globes. In particular, \"the International Journal of Digital Earth\" features multiple articles evaluating and comparing the development of Google Earth and its differences when compared to other professional, scientific, and governmental platforms. Google Earth's role in the expansion of \"earth observing media\" has been examined for its role in shaping a shared cultural consciousness regarding climate change and humanity's capacity to treat the earth as an engineerable object.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2126502", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126502", "title": "Maco, Davao de Oro", "text": "Maco, Davao de Oro\n\n', officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nIt was formerly part of the Municipality of Mabini before becoming an independent municipality in June 17, 1967.\n\nWebsite: https://maco.gov.ph\n\nMaco is politically subdivided into 37 barangays.\nIn the , the population of Maco, Davao de Oro, was people, with a density of .\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2126504", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126504", "title": "Maragusan", "text": "Maragusan\n\n', officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nIt is formerly named San Mariano.\n\nMaragusan is politically subdivided into 24 barangays.\nIn the , the population of Maragusan was people, with a density of .\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2126505", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126505", "title": "Mawab", "text": "Mawab\n\n', officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nMawab is bounded by the municipalities of Nabunturan, Compostela Valley, in the north-west; Montevista, Compostela Valley, and New Bataan, Compostela Valley, in the north-east; Maragusan, Compostela Valley (San Mariano) in the southeast; Municipalities of Maco, Compostela Valley, municipality of Mabini, Compostela Valley, and municipality of Pantukan, Compostela Valley in the south-west.\n\nMunicipality of Mawab due to its abundance and richness of trees, and rainforest does not normally experience floody climate during rainy season. However landslides occur in some areas. The river tributaries offer seasonal planting for agro-industrial businesses. Man-made fish ponds for fresh water fishes, that are privately owned are various opportunities for business entrepreneurs.\n\nMawab is politically subdivided into 11 barangays.\n\nThe prevailing climatic conditions in the municipality is categorized into two (2) types:\n\nMawab was originally called by the early tribal group as 'Ma-awag' (wide valley). There are four rivers traversing Mawab, namely: Hijo, Mawab, Galinan, and Gumawan. There are several tribal groups in Mawab: \"Mansakas\", \"Mandayas\", and \"Dibabawons\".\n\nIn the , the population of Mawab was people, with a density of .\n\nEthnicity is varied and of mixed origin due to migration from different Major Islands: Luzon, Visayas, Mindanao.\n\nOthers are the 'Trival Group', 'Native Filipino' and some are of 'Chinese Ancestry': China. Those who immigrated from Mindanao Island, more specially from Zamboanga has 'Spanish Ancestry': Spain.\n\nMajority of the populace are from two major islands of Visayas and Mindanao.\n\nLanguages spoken are products of migration of natives from different provinces of Visayas island, Mindanao island and some few in Luzon island.\n\n\nReligion in Mawab is predominantly Roman Catholic, Protestant, and some Muslims.\n\nElected officials 2019-Present:\n\nMunicipality of Mawab has all its natural wonders of nature like verdant forest rich in fauna and wild flowers. Most orchids found in its rainforest do not thrive in Luzon island. It has hot springs and cold springs, mainly tributaries of the rivers that bounded the valley:\nMawab is home to the military camp of Philippine Army: Camp General Manuel T. Yan Sr..\n\nEducation in the Philippines is patterned from both of educational systems of Spain and the United States of America. However, after the liberation of the Philippines in 1946, Filipinos then had moved in various directions of its own. Elementary and high school education is compulsory, and is administered nationally by the Department of Education (Philippines), along with the assurance of funding for school services and equipment, recruitment of teachers for all public schools, and the supervising and organization of the education curricula. Based on the current education system of the Philippines, students should enter elementary schools at the age of 6 or 7, and for a duration of six years. Then, at the age of 12 or 13, students then enter high schools for a duration four years, with a total of ten years of compulsory 'Public Education'. All public and private elementary schools, high schools and colleges and universities in the Philippines start classes from early June to mid June and end from mid March to early April.\n\nThere are 'Summer Classes' in between (months of April to May) for college programs which is optional for students to take.\n\nIn elementary and secondary education, universities and colleges the vernacular language of the country, Filipino is part of educational curriculum. Spanish (Espanol) as well is part of the educational curriculum in universities as a compulsory subject (twenty one credits) to graduate and finish an educational degree or Bachelor of Science. The medium of instruction in the classrooms is in English, Filipino (Tagalog), and whatever regional dialect they have.\n\nList of various public schools are all enlisted under Bureau of Secondary Education - Department of Education (DEP) Republic of the Philippines. For Mawab, Davao de Oro it is under Davao Region or Region 11 (Region 11): Department of Education (Philippines).\n\n"}
{"id": "2126515", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126515", "title": "New Bataan", "text": "New Bataan\n\n', officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nIt is about from Compostela, from the provincial capital Nabunturan, and from Tagum City. The municipality was founded on June 18, 1968, through Republic Act No. 4756. According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nThe town's festivals include \"Araw\" Celebration, held every 18 June; Founder's Day, held every 10 August; Sal’lupongan Festival, held every 13 June. Its patron saint is San Antonio de Padua.\n\nThe municipality was one of the hardest-hit towns of Typhoon Pablo when it hit the town on December 4, 2012.\n\nThe town got its name from the migrants coming from the Province of Bataan which settled in the town either during the Commonwealth or Post-War Period.\n\nNew Bataan has a total land area of and situated north and west of Davao Oriental province; south of Municipality of Compostela and west of Municipality of Maragusan. It is surrounded with mountain ranges, and more than 50% of its territory is forest cover that has been the sources of living for some people living there. The barangays of New Bataan that are mostly covered with forest are Andap, Tandawan, Camanlangan, Manurigao. Manurigao is the most remote among the barangay because of the absence of a better road and transportation.\n\nThe municipality is also watered by various rivers. One of which is the Mayo River that flows from the mountain of Andap and empties into the Agusan River. The Batoto river is also one of the biggest, it flows from the eastern part of the area. The northeastern portion of the municipality forms part on the contiguous plain of Compostela valley.\n\n\nNew Bataan is politically divided into 16 barangays, further subdivided into 204 puroks.\n\n\nIn the , the population of New Bataan was people, with a density of .\n\n\n\nMajor crops:\n\nRoad network (within the LGU territory):\n\n"}
{"id": "2126524", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126524", "title": "Pantukan", "text": "Pantukan\n\n', officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nPantukan is politically subdivided into 13 barangays.\n\n\nIn 1914, Governor General Charles Yeater declared Pantukan as a municipal district. Sangui, a Mansaka, was appointed president. A year after, he was replaced by Bancas Mansaka. On November 13, 1936, President Manuel L. Quezon declared it a regular municipality, therefore becoming the oldest local government unit in ComVal province. Teodoro Fuentes was appointed its first Alkalde. Juan Caballero Sr. was its first elected Mayor. From then up to the present, the elected mayors were: Graciano Arafol (1952-1959), Diosdado Basanez (1960-1963), Celso Sarenas (1964-) with Juan Caballero, Jr. as OIC (1986-1987), Jovito Derla (1988-1992), Juan Caballero, Jr. (1992-1995), Jovita Derla (1995-2004), Tok Sarenas (2004-2013), and Roberto Yugo (2013-present).\n\nIn the , the population of Pantukan, Davao de Oro, was people, with a density of .\n\nThe town is primarily dependent on mining but agriculture thrives in communities within its boundary. While small scale mining operates in the town, a large mining operator has been granted permit to explore gold in the area. Gold deposits in Barangay Kingking alone is estimated to be at 10.3 million ounces with copper deposits of 5.4 billion pounds. Nationwide Development Corporation (Nadecor) holds the Mineral Production Sharing Agreement (MPSA) for the Kingking mine site.\n\n"}
{"id": "2126527", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126527", "title": "Nabunturan", "text": "Nabunturan\n\n', officially the ', is a and capital of the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nThe municipality is home to the Mainit Hot Springs Protected Landscape.\n\nNabunturan is subdivided into 28 barangays, namely:\nIn the , the population of Nabunturan was people, with a density of .\n\nThe town of Nabunturan was once a barangay of Municipality of Compostela. The origin of the name is from \"buntod\", the Cebuano term for \"mountain.\" The word \"\"Nabunturan\"\" means \"surrounded by mountains\" in English. The early settlement was governed by a headman called \"Bagani\", but was under the supervision of the Municipal District President of Compostela over matters concerning civil affairs. For the maintenance of peace and order, the area was under the immediate supervision of the Philippine Constabulary Detachment of Camp Kalaw, Moncayo. From barangay Jaguimitan in the north to barangay Mawab (now a municipality in the south), the whole Compostela town was divided into two (2) municipal districts: the district of Moncayo, and the district of Compostela, with the latter's seat of local government in barangay Nabunturan, now the municipality of Nabunturan.\n\nBefore the construction of the national road traversing Nabunturan, the place was little known; but despite the threat of malaria, which was prevalent at the time, pioneers ventured into the area. Mansaka natives settled their lives here in the municipality of Mawab to Barangay Bangkerohan, Montevista. The original site of Barangay Nabunturan was situated along the Libasan-Saosao Provincial Road, about 4 km from the present Poblacion site. The public school system was under the supervision of the Supervising Teacher stationed in the Kalaw Settlement for schools in the district of Monkayo.\n\nWhen the road was constructed in 1938, many Visayan settlers and pioneers came to Nabunturan and made it their home. By that time, the establishment of the Bureau of Public Works (BPW) camp settled in Nabunturan. Many business trades and establishments poured in and Nabunturan was established as a rural community.\n\nIn 1941, the Second World War broke out in the country. A new hiding place for guerrillas and USAFFE Contingents spread in Nabunturan. But during the Japanese occupation in Mindanao, Nabunturan became a Japanese Kempetai Garrison. After the war, the Japanese were repulsed back to Davao City, and the camp regained its status as the center of life and business in Davao de Oro. Camp Kalaw was destroyed and abandoned.\n\nIn 1945, American forces landed in Davao City, and the Philippine Civil Assistance Unit (PCAU) established the civil government of Compostela at Nabunturan because of its accessibility to Davao City. By that time, many highways and roads were constructed, and Nabunturan became a center of commerce. Because of this, the need to convert Nabunturan to a municipality was felt. On July 23, 1957, 30 days after the approval and passage of Republic Act no. 2038, a new political unit—separate and distinct from the mother municipality of Compostela—was created. It retained its original name, Nabunturan. The first mayor of the town was Lauro C. Arabejo, the incumbent mayor of the municipality of Compostela.\n\nOn January 30, 1998, President Fidel V. Ramos signed into law the creation of the 79th province of the country, Compostela Valley (now named Davao de Oro), pursuant to Rep. Act 8470, which created Nabunturan as its capital town on March 8, 1998. Prospero Amatong, then incumbent governor of Davao del Norte province from which the new province of Compostela Valley was carved out, opted to serve as the first governor of the newly created province. He only served for one day because he resigned the following day and filed his candidacy for Congress. He was succeeded by Luz Sarmiento as an appointed governor and served for two months. The first elected governor was Jose R. Caballero who served from July 1, 1998, to June 30, 2007. The present Mayor of Nabunturan is Romeo C. Clarin.\n\nNabunturan is also home to the biggest gold ring in the Philippines, \"The Solidarity Ring.\"\n\nElected councilors of Nabunturan (2013–2016):\n\nElected Vice Mayor of Nabunturan (2013-2016):\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2126529", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126529", "title": "Monkayo", "text": "Monkayo\n\n', officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people, making it the most populous town in the province.\n\nMonkayo is an agricultural town, with vast tracts of land planted to rice and banana. The municipality is also host to the gold-rich barangay of Mount Diwata, popularly known as \"Diwalwal\" (which in the local dialect means one's tongue is hanging out due to exhaustion), a 1,000-meter high range known for its rich gold ore deposit. Monkayo's seat of government is located in Barangay Poblacion, a highly developed rural town center, and is away from Mindanao's regional center of Davao City, and some from Nabunturan, the provincial center.\n\nThe Municipality of Monkayo is a political unit with a land area that was once and for a long period of time a wilderness in the Northern hinterlands of Davao de Oro. The name “Monkayo” is derived from a gigantic tree towering on top Tandawan mountains and its northern tip in between and immediately adjacent to the Agusan River. The tree is called “\"Mondabon Kayo\"” (Mondabon Tree). It was however shortened by the first settlers of the area as “Monkayo”.\n\nIn the other related version, it is believed that a certain Fr. Ladour, the first missionary priest assigned in the area, gave the place the name of Moncayo, a snow-topped mountain dividing the kingdoms of Aragon and Castile, in Spain, probably as an analogy to the high mountains in the area that reminded him of his own place of birth.\n\nMonkayo belonged to the northern hinterland of what is now called Davao de Oro. It was occupied by Mandaya, Manobo, Mansaka, Manguangan and Dibabawon people who dwelt on primitive life and lived by hunting, fishing and crude method of farming (Kaingin) long before the Spanish conquistadors penetrated deep in Mindanao in the middle part of the 18th century. These different tribes or groups, each had a \"bagani\" as head or chief. They wore clothing and armed with bladed weapons and bows and arrows, they sang hymns called \"Tudom\" and long narrative songs called \"Owaging\" they danced and held rituals, feasted and chewed beetle nuts. Nevertheless, when Spanish missionaries came, these natives changed their lives and attitudes and eventually receptive to Christian teachings and ultimately embraced Christianity. Today, this municipality still has Mandaya, Dibabawon, Manguangan and Manobo, other tribes have transferred to other places.\n\nMonkayo became a Municipality District in 1917. The position given to the highest official was District President. The first one appointed to the position was Adolfo Mongado, the first Mandayan educator who served from 1917-1925. The other prominent leaders who held the same position were : Ignacio Cervantes – 1926-1933; Ildefonso Labrador – 1934-1935; and Pedro Aroma – 1936-1937. The title of the position was changed to District Mayor in 1938 with the following officials: Jose Ibañez who served from 1938–1939, followed by Feliciano Cervantes who held the position from 1940 up to the end of the World War II.\n\nDuring the Second World War, Monkayo was made an important military outpost. The 81st Military Division under the command of Col. Kangleon was established in the Poblacion and was named Camp Kalaw.\n\nOn September 4, 1954, Monkayo became a separate district and founded as a Municipality by virtue of a Presidential Executive Order No. 65 by then President Ramon Magsaysay of the Republic of the Philippines. The first mayor was Angelo Ortiz (Sept. 1954–Oct. 1955), who also was responsible for making Monkayo an independent municipality. Alejandro Peñaranda (Nov. 1955-Dec. 1955) was the shortest reigning mayor for only one (1) month, the next appointed mayor who donated portion of his land which became part of the Municipal Town Site. He was followed by Severino Lacson (Jan. 1956-Nov. 1964), Jose T. Amacio (Nov. 1964-Mar. 1972), and Anastacio C. Basañes. After the EDSA Revolution, Mayor Anastacio Basañes was succeeded by Constantino Alcaraz (April 1986 – 1992) as Officer In-Charge by virtue of the Freedom Constitution implemented under President Corazon Aquino. He was succeeded by Rizal G. Gentugaya, and Avelino T. Cabag (1998 to 2001).\n\nMonkayo is politically subdivided into 21 barangays.\nIn the , the population of Monkayo was people, with a density of . \n\nIt is the most populous among the municipalities of Compostela Valley.\n\nEthnic groups:\n\nThe largest group is the Roman Catholic having 65% of the population, other Christian group comprises (Evangelicals, Born Again, Kingdom of Jesus Christ) comprises 10%, the Iglesia ni Cristo comprises 10% and the remaining 15% belong to the other non-Christian groups.\n\n\nThere are various means to travel to Monkayo. The common modes of transportation within the municipality are multicabs, jeepneys, motorcycles. Tricycles play the routes that are outside the main streets of the town. In mountainous areas, the \"habal-habal\" passenger motorcycle is the main mode of transportation.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nAnother Spanish influence that remains up to this day is the observance and celebration of barrios, or villages, of the day of their respective patron saint called \"Fiesta\". It is in these celebrations wherein songs, dances and other forms of arts and merrymaking from various cultures have evolved creatively into the sights and sounds of Monkayo now.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThere are 37 public elementary schools within Monkayo, namely;\nThere are also three (3) private elementary schools, namely;\n\n\n\nPublic High Schools:\nPrivate High School:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2126530", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126530", "title": "Montevista, Davao de Oro", "text": "Montevista, Davao de Oro\n\n', officially the ', (; ), is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nThe municipality is bordered north by Monkayo; east by Compostela and Monkayo; south by Nabunturan; and west by Asuncion and New Corella, Davao del Norte.\n\nCaumanga, the original name of Montevista, was a peaceful haven of the Mandayan Tribe. During the Japanese occupation, Caumanga became the headquarters of the Japanese Imperial Forces who induced to flock to the place for protection, shelter, medicine, and food. With the increase of Christian settlers in the early part of 1950s, the name \"Caumanga\" was changed to San Jose in honor of their Patron Saint, Saint Joseph the Worker. However, it was not until June 18, 1966, when Republic Act No. 4808 was issued creating San Jose into a regular town. \"Montevista\" became the town’s official name as it paint an imbued idea over a place in California, USA, which had a semblance in topography to San Jose, meaning \"Mountain View\".\n\nMontevista is politically subdivided into 20 barangays.\nIn the , the population of Montevista, Davao de Oro, was people, with a density of .\n\nLong before the coming of Christians, \"Caumanga\", the original name of Barangay San Jose, was home to Mandayan Tribes. It then became the stop-over for migrants (settlers coming from different parts of the country), who came to the place in search of the fertile Compostela Valley.\n\nThe first settlers of Caumanga were Boboy Timbang and two cousins named Isig and Amasig, the disciples of Mongado-the first Mandayan Educator. Then followed by Eduardo Torres, Valentin Mabasag and some Christian settlers Julian A. Mascariñas, Leonardo Toyong Sr., Francisco Ramos and ex-councilor Rufino Ubal. These men helped develop Montevista at its early stage.\n\nDuring the Japanese occupation of World War II, Caumanga became the headquarters of the Japanese Imperial Forces under Inani Murakami, a Japanese Imperial Officer who befriended Fertig's guerilla movement and the Japanese induced the evacuees to flock to Caumanga for protection, shelter, medicine and food and stayed there for good even after the liberation time.\n\nWith the increase of Christian Settlers in the early part of the 1950s, the name Caumanga was changed to San Jose in honor of their patron saint, Saint Joseph the Worker.\n\nIn 1960, Councilor Rufino Ubal, a member of the Municipal Council of Nabunturan authored a resolution making San Jose a barrio of Nabunturan. The first elected barrio lieutenant was Francisco Ramos and the first Barangay Captain was Julian A. Mascariñas.\n\nFive years after, the barrio officials and some civic minded citizens initiated the separation of barrio San Jose from its mother municipality thus, in 1965, the Barangay Council of San Jose made a resolution addressed to the Provincial Board, proposing to create Barrio San Jose and neighboring barrios (barangays) into a separate town.\n\nBoard member Simplicio Montaño, the Grand Old Man of San Jose who was inspired by a place in California, United States, which had a semblance in topography to San Jose, changed the name from San Jose to Montevista meaning \"mountain view\". Also it was Montaño who worked hard for its approval in Congress, thus in June 1966, Montevista became a regular municipality.\n\nMontevista became a regular municipality on June 18, 1966, by virtue of Republic Act no. 4808 comprising the six barangays of San Jose, New Visayas, Camansi, Bankerohan Norte, Bankerohan Sur and Linoan. These barangays were formerly parts of the municipalities of Nabunturan, Monkayo, Compostela and Asuncion.\n\nThough Montevista was created on June 18, 1966, its political administration took effect on January 1, 1969 with Bernardo R. Rabanoz as the first elected mayor. After serving his term he was then succeeded by Simplicio Montaño, who barely served a month due to his untimely death. Vice Mayor Julian A. Mascariñas succeeded him and he served as the Municipal Mayor from February 11, 1972, to March 2, 1980. Mayor Bernardo R. Rabanoz took the reign of administration after winning the 1980 electoral race, serving for six years until April 1986.\n\nAfter the EDSA Revolution, Felipe B. Flores was designated on April 14, 1986, as Officer-In-Charge Mayor under the Freedom Constitution replacing elected Mayor Bernardo R. Rabanoz to last until December 6, 1987. In turn, Emiliano A. Corias was designated as OIC Mayor and served as the Local Chief Executive from December 7, 1987 to February 1, 1988.\n\nDuring the 1988 local polls, Bernardo R. Rabanoz won the election and remained four terms in the office as mayor. In 1995 elections, Vice Mayor Salvador S. Jauod Sr. became the town's mayor and was reelected in the May 11, 1998 election.\n\n"}
{"id": "2126532", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126532", "title": "Eric Linklater", "text": "Eric Linklater\n\nEric Robert Russell Linklater (8 March 1899 – 7 November 1974) was a Welsh-born Scottish poet, writer of novels, short stories, military history, and travel books. For \"The Wind on the Moon\", a children's fantasy novel, he won the 1944 Carnegie Medal from the Library Association for the year's best children's book by a British subject.\n\nLinklater was born in Penarth, Vale of Glamorgan, Wales, to Mary Elizabeth (c. 1867–1957), daughter of James Young, a master mariner, and her husband the Orcadian Robert Baikie Linklater (1865–1916), also a master mariner. He was educated at Aberdeen Grammar School and the University of Aberdeen, where he was President of the Aberdeen University Debater. He spent many years in Orkney and identified with the islands, where his father was born. His maternal grandfather was a Swedish-born sea captain, so that he had Scandinavian origins through both parents. Linklater is an Orcadian name derived from the Old Norse; throughout his life he maintained a sympathetic interest in Scandinavia.\n\nLinklater served in the Black Watch in 1917–1918 before receiving a bullet wound, then became a sniper. His experience of trench warfare is described in his memoir \"Fanfare for a Tin Hat\" (1970), and at one remove in his 1938 novel \"The Impregnable Women\", describing an imaginary war against France.\n\nAs an undergraduate at Aberdeen University in 1922, Linklater wrote the first musical comedy for the Aberdeen Student Show, \"Stella, the Bajanella\", with music by J. S. Taylor. Twenty-four years later, during his tenure as Rector of the University of Aberdeen, his play \"To Meet the Macgregors\" was performed as the 1946 Student Show. Abandoning medical studies in Aberdeen, Linklater spent 1925–1927 in Bombay, India as an assistant editor of \"The Times of India\", then travelled extensively before returning to Aberdeen as an assistant to the Professor of English and spending 1928–1930 as a Commonwealth fellow at Cornell and Berkeley.\n\nAs a writer, Linklater's career took off in 1929. Although his success began in his early career years, he published 23 novels, three volumes of stories, two of verse, ten plays, three works of autobiography and 23 of essays and histories. His third novel, \"Juan in America\", was a hugely popular picaresque, with some of the extravagance of Byron's Don Juan, based on experiences of the absurd during the Prohibition era, with resulting gangsterism. It is sprinkled with memorable remarks: \"I've been married six months. She looks like a million dollars, but she only knows a hundred and twenty words and she's only got two ideas in her head. The other one's hats.\" The character returns in \"Juan in China\" (1937).\n\nLinklater also wrote three children's novels: \"The Wind on the Moon\" (1944), \"The Pirates in the Deep Green Sea\" (1949) and \"Karina With Love\" (1958). The first is about two sisters, whose adventures include becoming kangaroos and rescuing their father from a Hitlerian tyrant, enlisting the anthropomorphic help of a puma and a falcon. Its storytelling skill and treatment of wider themes such as imprisonment and freedom won it a Carnegie Medal.\n\nLinklater's Orcadian and Scottish sympathies led him to literary and political involvement in the Scottish Renaissance, culminating in his unsuccessful National Party of Scotland candidacy at the 1933 East Fife by-election. \"Magnus Merriman\" (1934) was an acerbic fictionalized description of the debacle. He settled in Orkney with his new wife in 1933.\n\nThe author's attitude to war and the moral implications of diplomacy became sharper in \"Judas\" (1939), which explores the concepts of loyalty and treachery amid a strong indictment of the desertion of Czechoslovakia by Britain and France in the name of appeasement. The worsening international situation led to expansion of the Territorial Army (TA). It was decided to raise new units of anti-aircraft and coastal artillery in the Orkneys to defend the Scapa Flow naval base, with a fortress company of the Royal Engineers to support them. The Lord Lieutenant of Orkney and Shetland asked Linklater, still a Reserve officer, to raise one of these units, and he chose the 'Sappers'. He was commissioned as Captain and second-in-command of the Orkney Fortress Royal Engineers on 16 September 1938, but was effective commander. The unit consisted of a single company headquartered at Kirkwall, mainly to operate the electrical generators for the Scapa Flow defences and man the searchlights for the guns. The men were called out from farms and villages shortly before the outbreak of World War II and served through the winter of 1939/1940, when Orkney received a number of \"Luftwaffe\" raids. By mid-1940 reinforcements were pouring into the Orkney and Shetland defences and Linklater's command was broken up.\n\nAs a well-known author, Linklater was soon employed by the War Office Public Relations department to write official \"instant histories\" of the war, such as \"The Defence of Calais\" (1941) and \"The Northern Garrisons\" (1941), which described the life of British troops stationed in remote locations, including the Orkneys. This culminated in service in Italy in 1944–1945, which led to his novel about an equivocal Italian soldier, \"Private Angelo\" (1946), which contrasts nationalism with a sense of national community: \"I hope you will not liberate us out of existence,\" is a remark Angelo makes. As one reference work puts it, Angelo \"lacks 'the great and splendid gift' of courage, and consequently makes a poor soldier, although he is especially assiduous in retreating, and ultimately deserts.\" In 1951 Linklater published a semi-official account of \"The Campaign in Italy\" and also visited the Korean War for the War Office as a temporary Lieutenant-Colonel.\n\nLinklater moved back to the Scottish mainland in 1947 to Pitcalzean House, near Hill of Fearn in Ross-shire. His abilities and reputation as a novelist waned somewhat, but he turned to historical writing, and with great effect to autobiography.\n\nLinklater was Rector of the University of Aberdeen in 1945–1948 and received an honorary degree from the University in 1949. He was appointed CBE in 1954, served as deputy lieutenant of Ross and Cromarty in 1968–1973, and was elected a fellow of the Royal Society of Edinburgh in 1971.\n\nOn 1 June 1933 Linklater married Marjorie MacIntyre (1909–1997), an Edinburgh-born, English-educated actress and campaigner for the arts and the environment. She later became active in local politics and on the Scottish Arts Council in 1957–1963. They had four children, of whom their elder daughter Alison (born 1934) is an artist and their younger daughter, Kristin Linklater (born 1936) an actor, voice teacher and author of \"Freeing the Natural Voice\". Kristin's son Hamish Linklater is also an actor. Their elder son Magnus Linklater (born 1942) is a journalist and former editor of \"The Scotsman\", and their second, Andro Linklater (1944–2013), also a writer and journalist. \n\nEric Linklater died in Aberdeen on 7 November 1974 from thrombosis. He was buried in the churchyard at St Michael's, Harray on Mainland, Orkney.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2126533", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126533", "title": "Tonight's the Night", "text": "Tonight's the Night\n\nTonight's the Night may refer to:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2126534", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126534", "title": "Mizuki Kawashita", "text": "Mizuki Kawashita\n"}
{"id": "2126537", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126537", "title": "Boy Scout Handbook", "text": "Boy Scout Handbook\n\nBoy Scout Handbook is the official handbook of Scouts BSA. It is a descendant of Baden-Powell's original handbook, \"Scouting for Boys\", which has been the basis for Scout handbooks in many countries, with some variations to the text of the book depending on each country's codes and customs.\n\nThe original edition of the handbook was based on Baden-Powell's work. Ernest Thompson Seton combined his Woodcraft manual, the \"Birch Bark Rolls\", with Baden-Powell's \"Scouting for Boys\". Subsequent works were done by other authors. William \"Green Bar Bill\" Hillcourt wrote the 6th, 7th, and 9th editions. Frederick L. Hines wrote the 8th, and Robert Birkby the 10th, 11th and 12th editions.\n\nThe first \"Official Handbook\", subtitled \"A Handbook of Woodcraft, Scouting, and Life-craft\" was published from July 1910 until March 1911 and appeared in eight distinct variations. It was written by Ernest Seton and drew greatly on Baden-Powell's \"Scouting for Boys\", it included information on the organization of Scouting, signs and signaling, and camping, as well as Scouting games and a description of several Scouting honours. Notably, this book did not place emphasis on first aid, knife and axe use, or map and compass work, as later editions would. Because this edition was intended solely as a temporary guide until an authoritative handbook could be made, it is now known as the \"1910 Original Edition Handbook\". The cover art was an illustration by Baden-Powell. There were about 28,000 copies printed, not 68,900 as previously thought.\n\n\"The Official Handbook for Boys\" was published in June 1911. In this edition, the American Scouting program was standardized, albeit with many omissions and mistakes (cf. external links). As with the \"Original Edition\", many now-standard Scouting skills were passed over, including knife and axe use and map and compass work.\n\nThe book describes many Scout-like virtues and qualifications. After a lengthy section on what a Scout should know, including chivalry, history, and national issues, it is noted that \"in short, to be a good Scout is to be a well-developed, well-informed boy.\"\n\nThe Boy Scouting program began admitting girls in 2019 and was renamed to Scouts BSA. The handbook was renamed to the \"Scouts BSA Handbook\". It is available in two editions with identical content but one with photos of boys and one of girls.\n\nDates and names of the various editions are:\n\n"}
{"id": "2126546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126546", "title": "Ure Museum of Greek Archaeology", "text": "Ure Museum of Greek Archaeology\n\nThe Ure Museum of Greek Archaeology contains one of the most important collections of Greek antiquities in the United Kingdom. The Museum forms part of the Department of Classics at the University of Reading and is situated on the university's Whiteknights Campus, about from the centre of the English town of Reading, Berkshire. The museum is open to the public Tuesday to Friday (closed Fridays out-of-term) and there is no admission charge.\n\nThe museum houses a collection of material from the Greek and Greco-Roman civilisations of the Mediterranean, most notably Greek and Etruscan ceramics and terracottas. Other exhibits include prehistoric pottery, metal and stone artifacts of Greek and Roman dates, and a collection of Egyptian antiquities, ranging from the Pre-dynastic to the Roman period. These include musical instruments, bronze and copper artefacts and jewellery, a funeral boat and a mummified cat's head.\n\nThe museum was created in 1922 by the first Professor of Classics at the University, Percy Ure, although it contains an earlier donation of Egyptian antiquities made by Hilda Petrie in 1909 to the then \"Reading University College\". The collections have grown through the generosity of various donors, and are recognised as the fourth largest collection of Greek ceramics in Britain. The museum is named after Professor Ure and his wife, Dr Annie Ure, who was the museum's first curator. The current curator is Professor Amy C. Smith.\n\nThe museum is open to the public Tuesday to Friday between 0900 and 1630. It is on the ground floor of the north wing of the university's \"Edith Morley\" building, near entrance 5. Admission is free.\n\n"}
{"id": "2126548", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126548", "title": "Negerhollands", "text": "Negerhollands\n\nNegerhollands (English translation: \"Negro-Dutch\") was a Dutch-based creole language that was once spoken in the Danish West Indies, now known as the U.S. Virgin Islands. Dutch is its superstrate language with Danish, English, French, Spanish, and African elements incorporated. Notwithstanding its name, Negerhollands draws primarily from the Zeelandic rather than the Hollandic dialect.\n\nNegerhollands emerged around 1700 on the Virgin Islands Saint Thomas and Saint John, then Danish colonies. According to one of the most prevalent theories about its origin, slaves took the embryonic creole language to the island of Saint Thomas when they accompanied the Dutch planters who fled the island of Sint Eustatius after it had been raided by the English in 1666. A census on Saint Thomas from 1688 indeed shows that of the 317 European households on Saint Thomas, 66 were Dutch, 32 were English, and 20 were Danish. This also helps explain the considerable influence English and Danish had on the development of Negerhollands. On Saint John a similar observation can be made, with a 1721 census establishing that 25 of the 39 planters there were Dutchmen, and only 9 were Danes. Another theory is that the language was taken to the Caribbean by slaves from the Dutch slave forts in West Africa and Central Africa (e.g. the Dutch Gold Coast or Dutch Loango-Angola). \n\nFrom 1732 onwards, Moravian missionaries began visiting the Virgin Islands, who introduced an acrolectal version of the language, called Hoch Kreol. From 1765 till 1834, many texts were produced in this language, which gives Negerhollands an almost unparalleled amount of source texts among creole languages. In 1770, Moravian missionaries printed a primer and a small Lutheran catechism, followed in 1781 by a translation of the New Testament into Hoch Kreol.\n\nThe language began to decline in the early 19th century as English became the dominant language of the islands. The service in the Lutheran church was held in Hoch Kreol for the native congregation until the 1830s. As younger generations learned English as a native language, use of Hoch Kreol, whose use became limited to church services, was slowly abandoned, having been replaced by the English-based Virgin Islands Creole. It did, however, survive by the Moravian Orphanage at Nyherrenhut near Tutu well into the twentieth century. As older former orphans were volunteers the old Creole dialect persisted around the orphanage with the encouragement of the elders of the denomination. There was a TV special on WBNB in the 1970s which had some former orphans who were by that time quite old.\n\nAlice Stevenson, likely the last native speaker, died in 1987.\n\nModern Dutch translation: \n\nEnglish translation: \n\nModern Dutch translation: \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2126562", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126562", "title": "Sid Scales", "text": "Sid Scales\n\nSydney Ernest \"Sid\" Scales (17 July 1916 – 7 March 2003) was a New Zealand cartoonist.\n\nBorn in Ashburton, New Zealand, Scales studied at the London Central School of Art and Design and was staff cartoonist at the Otago Daily Times from 1951 until his retirement in 1981.\n\nBefore his time in London he served in World War II as a flying boat pilot (Catalina) in the Far East. Scales was commissioned in the RNZAF (Royal New Zealand Air Force) as a Flight Lieutenant and then seconded to the RAF. He saw service in Singapore and, when Singapore was overrun by the Japanese, he flew to Java to continue fighting from there. When Java was also occupied he was held as a prisoner of war by the Japanese on Java for three and a half years until liberated at the end of the war. While in camp Scales showed his talent as a caricaturist by contributing to an in-camp newspaper called 'Mark Time'. Some of these 'Campicatures' were buried and saved by returning POWs at the end of the war and found their way to the Imperial War Museum in London. While being held as a POW Scales also found the time to escape from prison camp and, along with some fellow-escapees, designed and began building a boat with the intention of sailing to Australia. The Japanese waited until the band of men were low with dysentery before coming to pick them up and take them back to prison camp.\n\nScales was appointed an Officer of the Order of the British Empire in the 1983 New Year Honours, for service as a cartoonist. He died in Motueka in 2003.\n\n"}
{"id": "2126563", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126563", "title": "Balbalan, Kalinga", "text": "Balbalan, Kalinga\n\n', officially the ' is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\n[Note: The historical note is taken from an article by Scott Magkachi Saboy]\n\nThis town draws its name from an ancient practice. It was said that war parties coming from certain areas in northern Kalinga (probably, the ancient place of Salegseg) used to meet by a creek when mapping out their plan of attack against or when regrouping after attacking a certain village. Since they would always wash (\"balbal\", in the local dialect) their blood-stained bodies and weapons in the creek, the place and its adjacent areas came to be known as \"Balbalan.\" Since its tribal war days, Balbalan has become one of the most peaceful place in Kalinga as dramatized by the selection of one of its ethnic sub-groups, the Salegseg.\n\nThe Spaniards made at least 10 incursions into the land of the Kalingas from the early 1600s to the late 1800s, four of which were made from the west (Abra) primarily targeting the regions of Banao and Guinaang. Although they succeeded around the mid-1800s in establishing a telegraph station in Balbalasang (where, incidentally, they appointed the noted Banao leader Juan Puyao as a gobernadorcillo or councilor) and subsequently hacking out an Ilocos-Abra-Kalinga-Cagayan trail, they failed to establish a total politico-military foothold in Kalinga.\n\nPrior to the establishment of American rule in Kalinga, the ethnic sub-groups covered by the present geopolitical configuration of Balbalan were, like other Kalinga communities at that time, organized according to an indigenous system or concept of local governance operating within a “bilateral kinship group” circumscribed by semi-permanent territorial boundary.\n\nThis period saw the rise of several community leaders often mentioned in Balbalan orature: Sagaoc, Balutoc, Masadao, Gaddawan, Dawegoy, Lang-ayan, Bayudang, Gammong, et al.\n\nWhen the Americans imposed their system of government over the archipelago, the land of the Kalingas became one of the highlights of their so-called “pacification campaign.” On 18 August 1907, Kalinga, then a sub-province of Lepanto-Bontoc, came under the control of Lt. Gov. Walter Franklin Hale who established his seat of government in Lubuagan where he organized the sub-province into four districts: Tinglayan-Tanudan; Balbalan-Pasil; Pinukpuk-Tobog (Tabuk), and Liwan (Rizal).\n\nExactly a year later, Act 1870 of the Philippine Commission carved the old Mountain Province out of northern Luzon with Kalinga as one of its five sub-provinces. Kalinga was immediately reorganized into five municipal districts — Lubuagan (including Tanudan and Pasil), Balbalan (including Balinciagao), Tabuk (with Liwan or Rizal), Tinglayan, and Pinukpuk — each led by presidents. Among these municipal chiefs was Puyao who served in that capacity for close to 24 years under five subprovincial chief executives: Walter F. Hale (1907–1915), Alex F. Gilfilan (1915), Samuel E. Kane (1915–1919), Tomas Blanco (1918–1923), and Nicasio Balinag (1923–1936). Puyao did not run for office during the first local elections in the area in 1934, and was succeeded by Awingan. Three years later, municipal chief executives became known as “Municipal District Mayors.”\n\nLittle is known of the political organization of the municipality during the Japanese occupation of the Philippines, except that in 1942 a Japanese garrison was established in Balbalan, as well as in Lubuagan and in Tabuk.\n\nThe old Mountain Province was regularized as a “first class province” in 1959 and new local elections were subsequently held. In Balbalan, Pedro Sagalon was elected mayor (Sugguiyao, 23). From the birth of the new Mountain Province on 18 June 1966 to 1988, there is a dearth of records on the succession of leadership in Balbalan. From 1988 to the present, however, government records list the following as mayors: Leonardo Banganan (1988–1992), Edward Calumnag (1992–1995), Rosendo Dakiwag (1995–2001), and Allen J.C. Mangaoang (2001 to 2013).\n\nThe present leadership of Balbalan has special significance to those who feared that the death of Juan Puyao in 1948 meant the end of his political bloodline. In the words of Kalinga historian Miguel Sugguiyao (1990, 39):\n\nBalbalan is politically subdivided into 14 barangays.\nIn the , the population of Balbalan was people, with a density of .\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2126565", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126565", "title": "Lubuagan", "text": "Lubuagan\n\n', officially the ' is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people. \n\nIt is north of Manila and from Tabuk.\n\nLubuagan Municipality, once the seat of the National Government from March 6 to May 17, 1900, during the time of Gen. Emilio Aguinaldo, was among the eight (8) municipalities of the new province of Kalinga. It is located at above sea level in the southern part of Kalinga and in the heart of the Cordillera. It has a land area of . Some of its younger generation have migrated either in the lowland plains of Tabuk or in other provinces in search for income and employment opportunities.\n\nLubbuagan is politically subdivided into 9 barangays.\n\nSpanish Rule was never established in Lubuagan during the more than 300 years of sovereignty over the Philippines. However, Emilio Aguinaldo, president of the erstwhile First Philippine Republic made Lubuagan the seat of government for 73 days, from to , before his escape and eventual capture at Palanan, Isabela, on .\nUpon the assumption of the United States of America as colonial power over the Philippines, the Township of Lubuagan, a unit of government at the time it was established in 1905 which was administered via the sub provincial government of Lepanto-Bontoc sub-province, Lt. Governor E. A. Eckman, an American ex-soldier was the Chief Executive of the sub-province.\nSometimes in 1907, Kalinga was separated and organized as a distinct sub-province from the Lepanto-Bontoc sub-province. Franklin Walter Hale was appointed the first Lt. Governor to establish a civil government in Kalinga.\n\nBulanao Barrio, a thriving big community of Tubog at the time, the site of which is the present homestead of Mr. Abe Umao was the target of Lt. Governor Hale as the center of this Administration of government in Kalinga sub-province. But shortly thereafter, the great cholera and malaria epidemic broke out in the later part of 1907 and continued in 1908 which almost wiped out the town populace. Lt. Governor Hales was himself attacked with malaria so that he and his official family were forced to leave Bulanao because those who survived the epidemic among the natives left.\n\nLt. Governor Hale and his staff came up to Lubuagan in the early part of 1909 and established their quarters and camps where the present multi-purpose Hall now stands. Governor Hale whom the people baptized and fondly called SAPAO, first organized his police contingent from and among the tribal pangats and headmen from the different villages of Kalinga to help them tame the natives who are still afraid and suspicious of the new order.\n\nLt. Governor Hale served Kalinga up to the end of July 1915. He was replaced by Lt. Governor Samuel Kane, who served for a brief period and wasreplaced by Lt. Gov. Alex Gilfilan in September 1916, who was later on replaced by what is now nomenclatured as Deputy Governor Mr. Thomas Blanco, a Filipino. In 1924, Deputy Governor Nicasio Balinag took over the reign of Sub-Provincial Executive of Kalinga.\n\nThe colonial Civil Government notably beginning with the administration of Lt. Governor Franklin Walter Hale up to the Commonwealth government is considered the golden years of Lubuagan, the capital town of the sub-province of Kalinga. Lubuagan at that time was the center of education, culture, commerce and trade. The founding of the Kalinga Academy in 1927, a secondary school run by American Missionaries and the St. Teresita's School in 1929, a Catholic Primary and High School managed by the CICM Belgian Missionaries bolstered the luster of Lubuagan.\n\nThe Japanese Imperial Army occupation forces came to Lubuagan in May 1942.\n\nIn 1945 during the war of liberation, Lubuagan was bombed by American planes resulting in the destruction of the Lubuagan Central School which was then occupied by the enemy. The big and beautiful St. Peter's church of Lubuagan, the father's convent and two more buildings within the compound were all burned to the ground. Lubuagan was once the capital of Kalinga sub-province before Tabuk rose to its present status as the center of learning and government activities. It is also in Lubuagan where the first instruction of higher learning (College) in the old Mt. Province was established.\n\nIn the , the population of Lubuagan, Kalinga, was people, with a density of .\n\n\nLaga Festival- From \"\"laga\",\" a Kalinga word which means to weave. Celebrated annually, typically in March. It is a two or three-day celebration which showcases the culture, arts, and history of Lubuagan. \n\n"}
{"id": "2126567", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126567", "title": "Pasil, Kalinga", "text": "Pasil, Kalinga\n\n', officially the ' is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nPasil is politically subdivided into 14 barangays.\nIn the , the population of Pasil, Kalinga, was people, with a density of .\n\nIn an earlier time, Kabunian–the supreme deity of the Kalinga–left a drop of water upon an ancient tree he passed on one of his travels. This drop trickled down and with a great force akin to magnetism, attracted nearby brooks and rivulets to form what is now called the Pasil River.\n\n"}
{"id": "2126569", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126569", "title": "Pinukpuk, Kalinga", "text": "Pinukpuk, Kalinga\n\n', officially the ' is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nIt is in the northern part of Kalinga province, which is a gateway to Tuao, Cagayan, and Conner, Apayao.\n\nPinukpuk is politically subdivided into 23 barangays.\n\nIn the , the population of Pinukpuk was people, with a density of .\n\n"}
{"id": "2126573", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126573", "title": "Rizal, Kalinga", "text": "Rizal, Kalinga\n\n' (formerly known as Liwan), officially the ' is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nThe town is famous for its Pleistocene sites which possesses rhino bones, tools, deer bones, turtle remains, and stegodon bones. The butchered rhino bones were confirmed by international scientific journals as proof of ancient hominids in the Philippines dating back to 709,000 years ago, the oldest hominid evidence in the entire Philippine archipelago. The discovery was confirmed in 2018, and has been a game-changer in Philippine prehistory.\n\nRizal is politically subdivided into 14 barangays.\nIn the , the population of Rizal, Kalinga, was people, with a density of .\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2126574", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126574", "title": "Tabuk, Kalinga", "text": "Tabuk, Kalinga\n\n', (), officially the ', or simply referred to as Tabuk City, is a and capital of the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nThe former municipal district of Tabuk was transformed into a regular municipality by \"Republic Act No. 533\", approved June 16, 1950.\n\nTabuk became the Cordillera's second city after Baguio on June 23, 2007, when 17,060 voters ratified \"Republic Act No. 9404\".\nOn November 18, 2008, the SC voted 6-5 to revert Tabuk City, among other 15 cities', status back to municipalities. However, on December 21, 2009, the Supreme Court reversed its first decision, returning the 16 back to cities. It contended that these cities were not covered by Republic Act 9009 – the law enacted in June 2001 that increased the income requirement for cities from P20 million to P100 million – as proven by transcripts of Senate debates while crafting RA 9009.\n\nBut on August 24, 2010, the SC made a reversal again, reinstating its November 2008 decision. It concluded that the Local Government Code as amended by RA 9009 should be followed, without exception.\n\nFinally, on February 15, 2011, the 16 became cities again after the SC made a third reversal. This time, the High Court acknowledged, among others, that the 16 cityhood laws amended RA 9009, effectively amending the Local Government Code itself.\n\nTabuk City is from Manila via Cauayan/Roxas and via San Mateo/Roxas.\n\nTabuk is politically subdivided into 42 barangays.\n\nIn the , the population of Tabuk was people, with a density of .\n\nTabuk is home to two indigenous languages, the \"Kina-linga language\" which is used throughout the Kalinga province a town in Mountain Province, and the \"Malaweg language\" which is used in Tabuk and southwest Cagayan province. In the 1970s, Ilokano and Kankanaey migrants came to the province and imported the \"Ilokano and Kankanaey languages\" during the martial law era.\n\n"}
{"id": "2126576", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126576", "title": "Tanudan, Kalinga", "text": "Tanudan, Kalinga\n\n', officially the ' is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people. \n\nThe town is known for \"Mount Binarbatan\". Legend tells that the supreme god of the Kalinga people went into the mountain to hunt but was irritated due to the noises made by the birds, so he ordered the birds to be quiet. When he was done hunting, he forgot to revoke his order from the birds, and thus, the mountain kept silent for all of eternity. Another popular place is the Lubo Village where houses are intact and strategically surrounded with rice terraces. Legend says that a brave warrior challenge god and that no one is stronger than him. So god started building dam that is made of rocks, when the water is high enough, god released the water through a whole called \"lubu\" that flooded the warrior and his family. The people from Ga-ang and Dacalan gathered together with the remnants of the relatives of the said warrior and saw that the flooded soil was good for planting rice, so they started to cultivating the land and named the village \"Lubo\".\n\nTanudan is politically subdivided into 16 barangays.\n\nIn the , the population of Tanudan, Kalinga, was people, with a density of .\n\n"}
{"id": "2126577", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126577", "title": "Tinglayan, Kalinga", "text": "Tinglayan, Kalinga\n\n', officially the ' is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nTinglayan is politically subdivided into 20 barangays.\n\nIn the , the population of Tinglayan was people, with a density of .\n\nTinglayan is famous for its local celebrity, Whang-od, who is the last \"mambabatok\" (traditional tattooist). Tourists often visit Tinglayan to see her and have their bodies tattooed.\n\n"}
{"id": "2126582", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126582", "title": "Thomas Burke (author)", "text": "Thomas Burke (author)\n\nThomas Burke (29 November 1886 – 22 September 1945) was a British author. He was born in Eltham, London (back then still part of Kent).\n\nHis first successful publication was \"Limehouse Nights\" (1916), a collection of stories centred on life in the poverty-stricken Limehouse district of London. Many of Burke's books feature the Chinese character Quong Lee as narrator.\n\n\"The Lamplit Hour\", an incidental poem from \"Limehouse Nights\", was set to music in the United States by Arthur Penn in 1919. That same year, American film director D. W. Griffith used another tale from the collection, \"The Chink and the Child\" as the basis of his screenplay for the movie \"Broken Blossoms\". Griffith based his film \"Dream Street\" (1921) on Burke's \"Gina of Chinatown\" and \"Song of the Lamp\".\n\nThomas Burke was born Sydney Thomas Burke on 29 November 1886 in Clapham, a southern suburb of London that by the turn of the century had fallen out of favour with the middle-classes. Burke's father died when he was barely a few months old and he was eventually sent to live with his uncle in Poplar. At the age of ten he was removed to a home for middle-class boys who were \"[r]espectably descended but without adequate means to their support.\" When Burke turned sixteen he started working as an office boy, a job that he deeply detested. In 1901, he published his first professional written work entitled \"The Bellamy Diamonds\" in the magazine \"Spare Moments\". He also edited some anthologies of children's poetry that were published in 1910–1913.\n\nIn 1915, Burke published \"Nights in Town: A London Autobiography,\" which featured his descriptions of working-class London nightlife including the essay, 'A Chinese Night, Limehouse' However, it was not until the publication of \"Limehouse Nights\" in 1916 that he obtained any substantial acclaim as an author. This collection of melodramatic short stories, set in a lower-class environment populated by Chinese immigrants, was published in three British periodicals, \"The English Review\", \"Colour\" and \"The New Witness,\" and received marked attention from literary reviewers. \"Limehouse Nights\" helped to earn Burke a reputation as \"the laureate of London's Chinatown\". Burke's writing also influenced contemporary popular forms of entertainment, such as the nascent film industry. Indeed, D. W. Griffith used the short story \"The Chink and the Child\" from \"Limehouse Nights\" as the basis for his popular silent film \"Broken Blossoms\" (1919).\n\nBurke continued to develop his descriptions of London life throughout his later literary works. He gradually expanded his range with novels such as \"The Sun in Splendor\", which was published in 1926. He also continued to publish essays on the London environment, including pieces such as \"The Real East End\" and \"London in My Times\". Burke died in the Homeopathic Hospital in Queens Square, Bloomsbury on 22 September 1945. His short story \"The Hands of Ottermole\" was later voted the best mystery of all time by critics in 1949.\n\nAny attempt to accurately describe Thomas Burke's life is severely complicated by the many fictionalised accounts of his youth that circulated widely during his lifetime. Burke himself was principally responsible for fabricating and disseminating these autobiographical stories, which he used to bolster his authorial claim to an intimate knowledge of life among the lower-classes. As literary critic Anne Witchard notes, most of what we know about Burke's life is based on works that \"purport to be autobiographical [and] yet contain far more invention than truth\". For instance, although he grew up in the suburbs, Thomas Burke claims in his autobiographical novel \"The Wind and the Rain: A Book of Confessions\" (1924) to have been born and raised in the East End, a lower-working class area of London. Furthermore, in this work he states that while growing up as an orphan in the East End he befriended a Chinese shopkeeper named Quong Lee from whom he learned about Chinese life in London. Burke also told newspaper reporters that he had \"sat at the feet of Chinese philosophers who kept opium dens to learn from the lips that could frame only broken English, the secrets, good and evil, of the mysterious East\".\n\nThese romanticised tales of Burke's early life were often accepted by the literary critics of the day and went largely unchallenged by his contemporaries. Although Burke's later writing, including the book \"Son of London\" more accurately describes his youth in the suburbs, the majority of his autobiographies attest to his supposedly intimate knowledge of lower-class life. These fabricated autobiographies enabled Burke to establish his authority as an expert on the Chinese in London, allowing him to create a persona that he used to market his fictional works on Limehouse. As Witchard notes, Burke, through his writing, positioned himself as a \"seer\" in an \"occult process\" of representing London's sub-cultural 'Others'.\n\nDespite a long list of works, recognition of Burke largely concerns \"Limehouse Nights\", his second book of London stories. Published in 1917, Burke's gritty tales of London's Chinatown ignited immediate controversy. The book was initially banned by circulating libraries, not only on grounds of general immorality, but also for the scandalous interracial relationships portrayed between Chinese men and white women. Set during World War I in a declining British Empire, \"Limehouse Nights\" aggravated already present anxieties. As critic Anne Witchard notes, the twentieth century Britain of Burke's lifetime propagated the idea of Yellow perilism, which saw the presence of the Chinese in London as a cause of \"degenerative metropolitan blight and imperial and racial decline\". In no small part thanks to Burke and his contemporary, Sax Rohmer, what had been a largely unnoticed Chinese immigrant population now found itself under public scrutiny. The culmination of this negative attention was a hysteria in the late 1920s, centred on claims of \"the hypnotism of white girls by yellow men\". In America, aided by D.W. Griffith's adaptation of \"The Chink and the Child,\" the 1919 silent film \"Broken Blossoms\", Burke's reception was much more positive. Having so closely tied his literature to Limehouse, illuminating an otherwise shadowed community, it is somewhat ironic that Burke's popularity correlated with the decline of Chinese concentration in the district, leaving him all but forgotten today.\n\nBurke's critical reception is as concentrated on \"Limehouse Nights\" as his public reception. Consensus is largely positive, praise coming from such notable authors as H.G. Wells and Arnold Bennett. Even negative reviews tend to be tempered by acknowledgement for Burke's craft. Critic Gilbert Seldes, for instance, wrote:\n\"Possibly Mr. Burke's books, at once vigorous and wanton, may be respected afterward; one fears only that they will be found a little purposeless, a little lacking in social direction. It is that lack, of course, which makes them so attractive. For, it may be mentioned, these are wonderfully good things to read.\"\nMore ecstatic reviewers echo critic Milton Bronner's favourable comparison: \"Not since the days when Kipling burst upon the English word has any writer displayed more sheer power and driving force\". Unlike Kipling, who wrote at the height of empire in distant India, however, recent interpretation suggests Burke found critical success by bringing the exotic home, providing escape for a public caught in the unprecedented brutality of World War I.\n\nReviews of Burke's many other works are more mixed, and always overshadowed by the controversial and successful \"Limehouse Nights\". \"Twinkletoes\", published a year later in 1918, rode on the same wave of approval. \"More Limehouse Nights\" in 1921 was also generally well received, but Burke was increasingly criticised for repetition. As critic John Gunther remarked, \"[it] may be true that London is big enough to stand nine books about her from one hand. But that hand should be a bigger one than Thomas Burke's\". While critical interest in Burke is now typically sparse, when recognised he is still regarded favourably as a Modernist author.\n\nThomas Burke considered himself to be a true Londoner both by birth and in spirit, and the large majority of his writings are concerned with the everyday life in London. The settings and peoples of working class London became an important element in Burke's work, and lower class setting and character 'types' are repeatedly used in both his fictional and non-fictional essays. Burke's writing follows in the tradition of James Greenwood and Jack London with his non-fiction, journalistic representation of London streets and the people in them. Burke gained recognition with his first book, \"Nights in Town\", in 1915. \"Limehouse Nights\" was his first popular success, though it was largely a repetition of the same material in \"Nights in Town\", only in fiction form.\n\nBurke has in fact used the same material to produce different genres of writing—as essays in \"Nights Town: A London Autobiography\", as fictional short stories in \"Limehouse Nights\", as a novel in \"Twinkletoes\", and as poetry in \"The Song Book of Quong Lee of Limehouse\". Though the majority of Burke's writing was concerned with London, and more specifically the East End and the Limehouse district, Burke also published several eclectic and \"uncharacteristic\" pieces. With \"Night-Pieces\" (1935) and \"Murder at Elstree or Mr. Thurtell and His Gig\", Burke tried his hand at horror fiction. In contrast to this, Burke also published \"The Beauty of England\" (1933) and \"The English Inn\" (1930), which depict England's countryside, and \"The Outer Circle\", which contains a series of ramblings about the London suburbs. In 1901 \"The Bellamy Diamonds\" was published in \"Spare Moments\" \"which every week offered a guinea for the best short story sent in\" (169).\n\nBurke's writing blends several styles to create a dramatic portrait of London. \"Limehouse Nights\" and its various sequels classified Burke as a \"purveyor of melodramatic stories of lust and murder among London's lower classes\". Both his essays and fiction, focusing particularly on \"Limehouse Nights\", are characterised, seemingly paradoxically, with harsh realities and more romanticised, poetic outlooks. Ultimately, Burke's style is that of a blend of realism and romanticism. Burke's first-hand knowledge (though overstated in his fictional autobiographies) and love for the city of London enabled Burke to write intimately about London life. Burke was also influenced by the work of Thomas De Quincey, and many of his writings that focus on the Limehouse district bear a resemblance to De Quincey's \"Confessions of an English Opium-Eater\".\n\nThe American filmmaker D. W. Griffith used Burke's short story \"The Chink and the Child\" from \"Limehouse Nights\" as basis for his silent film \"Broken Blossoms\" (1919). The film was equivalent in size, style, and prominence to a contemporary blockbuster. Griffith paid one thousand pounds for rights to the story, which was a huge sum at the time. This raised the public's awareness of the Limehouse district and the poverty in London. The film was remade in 1936.\n\nOther film adaptations have been based on Burke's stories as well. Charlie Chaplin derived \"A Dog's Life\" (1918) from \"Limehouse Nights\", and Burke's book \"Twinkletoes\" (1926) was made into a movie of the same name, starring Colleen Moore, Tully Marshall, Gladys Brockwell, Lucien Littlefield, and Warner Oland, directed by Charles Brabin. Maurice Elvey's \"Curlytop\" (1924) combines a number of Limehouse scenes and other stories of Burke's were also used as material for \"Alfred Hitchcock Presents\". The 1949 British spiv film \"No Way Back\" is based on Burke's \"Beryl and the Croucher\".\n\nIn addition to his autobiographical \"Nights in Town\", Thomas Burke wrote a non-fictional account of Chinatown in his book \"Out and About\". In the chapter entitled \"Chinatown Revisited\" Burke elaborates on a visit in 1919 to the Limehouse district. While there with a friend, Coburn, Burke discovers that the Limehouse he wrote about in \"Limehouse Nights\" has disappeared. He explains that the crime, sex, and violence characteristic of Limehouse has been regulated by the local police. No longer present was the life of the Chinese district that Burke had created. As he notes, \"the glamorous shame of Chinatown has departed\".\n\nThomas Burke's later nonfictional works, as analysed by Matt Houlbrook in \"Queer London\", examine, if only in an indirect way, London's homosexual communities. In 1922, Burke published \"The London Spy: A Book of Town Travels\", part of which describes the male homosexual relationship as existing within the public spaces of the city: \"Only in the misty corners of the thickening streets…can [homosexual couples] attain the solitude they seek…For the young lover…the street is more private than the home.\"\n\nIn 1937, Burke published \"For Your Convenience: A Learned Dialogue Instructive to all Londoners and London Visitors\". Burke's nonfictional account, according to Houlbrook, \"offers an ironic—if heavily veiled—indictment of contemporary sexual mores\", and again establishes public, rather than private spaces, particularly urinals, as the sites of homosexual desire. By providing a verbal and visual map of London with the locations of urinals clearly marked, Burke \"[formalizes] men's knowledge of these sexual possibilities\" and \"[codifies] their knowledge of the tactics needed to use these sites safely\". Burke's work as an urban observer thus allows him to map the public world of London's queer and to reflect upon the extent to which interaction with London's public landmarks engaged homosexual communities in an historical narrative of identity formation.\n\n\nQuong Lee, a tea-shop owner in Down East Limehouse, appears in Allan Moore's comic \"The League of Extraordinary Gentlemen\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2126602", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126602", "title": "Noble chafer", "text": "Noble chafer\n\nThe noble chafer (\"Gnorimus nobilis\") is species of beetles belonging to the family Scarabaeidae, subfamily Cetoniinae.\n\nThe genus name \"Gnorimus\" derives from the ancient Greek γνώριμος, \"gnōrimos\" meaning 'famous'. The species name\" nobilis\" (Latin) means \"noble\".\n\nThis species is widespread in most of Europe (Albania, Austria, Belarus, Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Italy, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, Montenegro, Netherlands, North Macedonia, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Russia, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, Ukraine and United Kingdom). It seems to be declining over much of its European range.\nIn Britain this beetle has been losing its habitat, and its populations shrinking, for more than a century. The beetle has been recently seen at a handful of sites in the old English fruit-growing regions of Gloucestershire, Herefordshire and Worcestershire. .\n\nThis species mainly inhabits both the plains and the mountains. It prefers open, deciduous woods and forests and it is associated with dead wood. In the UK, however, it often can be found in old fruit orchards.\n\nSubspecies and varietas include:\n\n\"Gnorimus nobilis\" can reach approximately a body length of . These beetles have the pronotum and head covered with dense medium-sized dots. Elytra are covered with dense, coarse wrinkles and small, small dots. They have a green metallic-green body speckled with white. They show a brilliant iridescence that can vary from gold to copper or violet. The sides of the abdomen and the pygidium are also gold-green with large white spots. The bottom side varies from bright coppery to black.\n\nThe related species \"Gnorimus variabilis\" is easily distinguishable. In this species the elytra are not green metallic, but black, with white spots. In addition, the shape of the pronotum side edge is laterally weakly s-shaped, while in \"Gnorimus nobilis\" it is imus nobilis simply rounded.\n\n\"Gnorimus nobilis\" is also rather similar to the more common \"Cetonia aurata\", but in the latter the middle and hind legs are toothed, whereas they are smooth in the \"Gnorinus nobilis\". Moreover in the \"noble chafer\" the scutellum forms an equilateral triangle. \n\nThe adults can be found from May until early August, most often on warm sunny days between July and August. Adult beetles feed on nectar and pollen on flower heads, especially umbellifers, such as common hogweed (\" Heracleum sphondylium \"). Females lay their eggs on rotting wood on the trunks of old trees, especially ancient oaks. This species spends most of its life as a grub, living in the rotting wood of old trees, mainly willow, poplar, oak and fruit trees. Larvae grow to a length up to 48 mm and take two years before pupating. In their second summer adults comes out to breed, before dying in the early autumn.\n\n"}
{"id": "2126609", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126609", "title": "New York State Route 7", "text": "New York State Route 7\n\nNew York State Route 7 (NY 7) is a state highway in New York in the United States. The highway runs from Pennsylvania Route 29 (PA 29) at the Pennsylvania state line south of Binghamton to Vermont Route 9 (VT 9) the Vermont state line east of Hoosick. Most of the road runs along the Susquehanna Valley, closely paralleling Interstate 88 (I-88) throughout that road's length. Portions of the highway route near the cities of Binghamton, Schenectady, and Troy date back to the early 19th century.\n\nNY 7 begins at the Pennsylvania state line south of Corbettsville, where the road connects to Pennsylvania Route 29 (PA 29). Like PA 29 to the south, NY 7 follows Snake Creek north to Corbettsville, where it meets NY 7A on the banks of the Susquehanna River. From Corbettsville northward, NY 7 becomes the riverside highway, following the river (as well as U.S. Route 11 or US 11 and I-81 on the opposite bank) through Conklin to eastern Binghamton, where it indirectly connects to US 11 via a bridge over the Susquehanna.\nThe route continues west into downtown along Conklin Avenue, then heads north on Tompkins Avenue to traverse the Susquehanna River. On the opposite bank, NY 7 intersects US 11 and becomes Brandywine Avenue. After three blocks, NY 7 merges with NY 363, a limited-access highway. While NY 363 terminates at the merge, NY 7 follows the right-of-way of NY 363 northward, connecting to the concurrent routes of I-81 and NY 17 by way of an interchange before leaving the city limits.\n\nImmediately north of Binghamton in Port Dickinson, NY 7 merges with I-88 across the Chenango River from the western terminus of I-88 at I-81. I-88 and NY 7 continue to the northeast along the Chenango River through Chenango Bridge (where the routes meet NY 12A) and Port Crane (where I-88 and NY 7 meet NY 369 and leave the path of the Chenango River) before separating in Sanitaria Springs.\nNY 7 is signed north-south from the PA line to I-88 near Binghamton, while the remainder of the route is signed east-west.\n\nFrom Sanitaria Springs eastward, I-88 and NY 7 follow parallel routings through Colesville to Harpursville, where NY 7 overlaps NY 79 for a short distance and intersects NY 235 outside of the community. East of NY 235, NY 7 rejoins the Susquehanna River, following the river (as well as I-88 on the opposite bank) through several riverside villages (including Bainbridge and Unadilla) to Oneonta. West of the city, NY 7 meets NY 23 and joins the route into the heart of Oneonta. Near the eastern edge of the city, NY 23 breaks from NY 7 while NY 7 continues onward in the shadow of I-88 and the Susquehanna River. To the northeast in Colliersville, the Susquehanna separates from NY 7 and is joined by NY 28 while NY 7 continues along the path of Schenevus Creek.\n\nBoth I-88 and NY 7 head northeast along the creek through numerous communities to Richmondville, where NY 7 meets NY 10 at an interchange with I-88 near Cobleskill Creek. NY 10 turns east onto NY 7, forming an overlap along the creek to Cobleskill before separating from NY 7 in the center of the village at an intersection with NY 145. NY 145 then overlaps NY 7 east out of the village before separating midway between Cobleskill and Schoharie near Howe Caverns. North of Schoharie, NY 7 briefly overlaps NY 30A across Schoharie Creek before intersecting NY 30 west of the Schoharie-Schenectady County line.\n\nIn Duanesburg, southwest of Schenectady, NY 7 intersects US 20 and meets I-88 once more at exit 24. Both routes continue northeast along Normans Kill into western Schenectady, where I-88 meets NY 7 one final time by way of another interchange before terminating at an interchange with the New York State Thruway (I-90). NY 7, however, passes over the Thruway with no connection and heads east into Rotterdam as Duanesburg Road. In the center of the community, NY 7 turns east onto Curry Road, remaining on the roadway to an interchange with I-890 adjacent to the Schenectady Albany county line. NY 7 merges with I-890 northward for two exits (creating a wrong-way concurrency) before exiting onto the Crosstown Arterial.\nAt the end of the arterial in eastern Schenectady, NY 7 becomes the at-grade Troy–Schenectady Road as it heads along the south bank of the Mohawk River into Albany County. Shortly after entering the county and the Town of Colonie, NY 7 leaves the river and progresses southeast toward the hamlet of Latham. Soon after passing the Albany International Airport and prior to entering the center of Latham, NY 7 meets I-87 (the Adirondack Northway) at exit 6. Here, NY 7 joins the Adirondack Northway northward while Troy–Schenectady Road continues east as NY 2. At exit 7, NY 7 separates from the Adirondack Northway and continues east on a five-lane, limited-access freeway known locally as \"Alternate Route 7\". The route connects to US 9 and I-787 / NY 787 by way of interchanges prior to crossing over the Hudson River and into Troy over the Collar City Bridge. The route remains a limited-access highway to 8th Street, where it becomes the at-grade Hoosick Street.\n\nNY 7 continues east through Troy, intersecting NY 40 before exiting the city. Past Troy, the land surrounding NY 7 is largely rural as it heads through Pittstown to Hoosick, where it meets and is briefly concurrent to NY 22. Farther east, NY 7 intersects the western end of the Bennington Bypass, a limited-access highway leading to Bennington, Vermont, before crossing into Vermont and becoming Vermont Route 9.\n\nOne of the canceled Interstate 92 proposals would have traced NY 7 from Albany to the Vermont border where it would continue through Bennington VT, Brattleboro VT, Concord NH, Manchester NH, and terminate at the ocean. It would have intersected I-91 (in Brattleboro VT), I-95 (in Hampton NH) and US 1 (also in Hampton NH), and overlapped I-89, (East Terminus of NH 9 to I-93 interchange, I-93 (I-89 interchange to NH 101 interchange), New Hampshire route 101 (I-93 interchange to terminus), and completely replaced Vermont route 9, and New Hampshire route 9.\n\nThe history of parts of NY 7 date back to shortly after the settlement of Hoosick in 1688. Hoosick was a part of the Manor of Rensselaerswyck and a public manor road was laid from Rensselaer to the site later of Troy at a ferry crossing, and then to the northeast as far as Hoosick. The section of NY 7 from Troy to Hoosick is that old manor road. The 19th century toll road known as the Troy and Schenectady Turnpike (now the Troy–Schenectady Road) chartered in 1802, connecting the cities of Troy and Schenectady. Another turnpike road, the Troy Turnpike, was established in 1831 and went east from Troy to Bennington, Vermont. The road between Binghamton (at the location known as Chenango Point) through the village of Unadilla to the town of Otego was also an old turnpike road (Unadilla Turnpike) that was chartered in 1806.\n\nPortions of modern NY 7 between Binghamton and Central bridge were part of the Susquehanna Valley Route Auto trail. The state took over maintenance of certain trunk line highways at the beginning of the 20th century. Most of modern NY 7 was first defined in the 1909 Highway Law (amended in 1911) as State Route 7, which was designated from the Pennsylvania state line at Binghamton town to Harpursville, then along the Susquehanna Valley through Oneonta to the town of Schoharie. From there, the legislative route 7 went east via Berne and New Scotland then ending in Albany. The portion of modern NY 7 continuing northeast from the town of Schoharie to Schenectady was part of State Route 7A. The portion of modern NY 7 between Troy and Schenectady was defined as part of State Route 42, while that between Troy and Hoosick was part of State Route 22.\n\nIn 1924, when state highways were first publicly signed, most of what is now NY 7 between Binghamton and the Vermont state line was designated as New York State Route 9, continuing the numbering of New England Route 9 in Vermont. Within Albany, NY 9 followed the modern routing of NY 2 through Latham to Troy, where the connection to the modern alignment of NY 7 was made via current US 4. In 1927, NY 9 was redesignated as NY 7 to avoid conflict with US 9. The route north of Binghamton remained unchanged in the 1930 renumbering; however, south of Binghamton, NY 7 was extended to the Pennsylvania state line, where it became PA 29.\n\nOver the years, NY 7 has been realigned to follow different routings in and around the cities it serves. Prior to 1930, NY 7 began at Court Street in Binghamton and followed Chenango Street north into Fenton, where it turned east and continued through Port Crane to the Colesville hamlet of Sanitaria Springs. In the 1930 renumbering, NY 7 was extended south to Pennsylvania by way of Court Street, Tompkins Street, and Conklin Avenue. NY 7 was realigned slightly by 1947 to follow Robinson Street and Brandywine Avenue between Chenango and Tompkins streets. The Brandywine Highway, a four-lane arterial through Binghamton and Port Dickinson, opened to traffic as a realignment of NY 7. The portion of NY 7 between Port Dickinson and Sanitaria Springs was relocated onto a new limited-access highway between 1968 and 1973. The segment of Chenango Street between the Binghamton city line and current NY 7 in Port Dickinson (a distance of ) is now NY 990H, an unsigned reference route. The former pre I-88 routing of NY 7 between Port Crane and Sanitaria Springs is now NY 7B. Prior to becoming NY 7B in the 1990s, it was designated NY 990K, an unsigned reference route.\n\nIn Schenectady, it was originally routed along Broadway, State Street, Nott Terrace, and Union Street. It was shifted at some point between 1938 and 1947 to avoid downtown along Curry Road, Altamont Avenue and Brandywine Avenue. Meanwhile, the portion of Curry Road between Altamont Avenue and NY 146 was designated as NY 146C in the mid-1930s. NY 7 was rerouted to follow Curry Road east from Altamont Avenue to the new I-890, where NY 7 turned north and followed I-890 to modern exit 7. Here, the route split from I-890 and continued to the junction of Union Street and Rosendale Road east of the city by way of a new arterial. The NY 146C designation was removed from Curry Road as part of the change. NY 7's former routing along Altamont Avenue from Curry Road to the Schenectady city line (a length of ) is now the unsigned NY 911H. Prior to the creation of the modern reference route system, Altamont Avenue was designated as NY 951. Reference markers along the route still bear this number.\n\nIn 1981, the Collar City Bridge was built, connecting Green Island with Troy in the Capital District. By 1985, construction had begun on the NY 7 freeway, then planned as NY 7 Alternate, between I-87 and I-787 west of Green Island. In 1986, NY 7 \"Alternate\" opened, becoming part of a realigned NY 7. The old surface alignment was designated as an extension of NY 2.\n\nNY 28 originally overlapped NY 7 from the intersection of Main and Chestnut streets in Oneonta to Colliersville, where it turned north onto D.K. Lifgren Drive to rejoin NY 28's modern alignment. NY 28 was rerouted to follow its current alignment between Main Street south of Oneonta and D.K. Lifgren Drive near Colliersville in the early 1980s following the completion of what is now NY 28 from I-88 exit 17 to D.K. Lifgren Drive. The portion of Main Street between NY 28 and NY 7 ( long) is now designated as NY 992D while D.K. Lifgren Drive ( in length) is now NY 992G.\n\nNY 7 currently has two spurs, both located in the Southern Tier. A third formerly existed in the Capital District near Schenectady.\n\nNew York State Route 7A (NY 7A) () is a spur in the Broome County town of Conklin that connects NY 7 to the Pennsylvania state line. While NY 7 follows a creek valley to the Pennsylvania border, NY 7A continues NY 7's course along the Susquehanna River valley, paralleling US 11 and I-81. When NY 7A was assigned as part of the 1930 renumbering of state highways in New York, it connected to PA 602; it now connects to SR 1033, an unsigned quadrant route.\n\n\nThe current New York State Route 7B (NY 7B) designation is a spur in the Broome County towns of Fenton and Colesville. It follows the former, pre-expressway routing of NY 7 between NY 369 in the hamlet of Port Crane and NY 7 in the hamlet of Sanitaria Springs. Prior to becoming NY 7B in the 1990s, it was designated NY 990K, an unsigned reference route.\n\n\nThe original NY 7B was an alternate route of NY 7 from Unadilla to Oneonta that was assigned as part of the 1930 renumbering. It overlapped NY 28 from North Franklin to Oneonta. On November 27, 1969, the New York State Department of Transportation Commissioner T. W. Parker announced that NY 7B would be renumbered to NY 357. This new designation would also truncate NY 7B off the overlap with NY 28 to Oneonta and simplify signage for drivers to understand in the city of Oneonta. This would also open the door for signage to be added for future Interstate 88. On January 1, 1970, the North Franklin–Oneonta portion was removed and the Unadilla–North Franklin portion of NY 7B was renumbered to NY 357. If the weather permitted, the official signage would be replaced in the spring of 1970.\n\nNY 7C was a loop off of NY 7 east of Schenectady in the Capital District. The majority of the route was located in Schenectady County; however, the easternmost of the route was located in Albany County. It began at NY 7 in Niskayuna and proceeded east along Rosendale Road into Colonie, where it ended at NY 7. The route was assigned and removed in the late 1960s. Ownership and maintenance of NY 7C's former routing in Schenectady County was transferred from the state of New York to the county on April 1, 1980, as part of a highway maintenance swap between the two levels of government. This portion of the route is now designated as County Route 158.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2126621", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126621", "title": "Les Misérables (1934 film)", "text": "Les Misérables (1934 film)\n\nLes Misérables is a 1934 film adaptation of Victor Hugo's 1862 novel of the same name. It was written and directed by Raymond Bernard and stars Harry Baur as Jean Valjean and Charles Vanel as Javert. The film lasts four and a half hours and is considered by critics to be the greatest adaptation of the novel, due to its more in-depth development of the themes and characters, in comparison with most shorter adaptations.\n\nIt was released as three films that premiered over a period of three weeks.\n\nJean Valjean is an ex-convict struggling to redeem himself, but his attempts are continually ruined by the intrusion of Javert. Javert is a cruel, ruthless police inspector who has dedicated his life to pursuing Valjean, whose only crime was stealing a loaf of bread, for which he received 5 years in jail. He serves an additional 14 years for escape attempts.\n\nThe film, like the novel, features numerous other characters and subplots, such as Fantine, a woman forced into prostitution to pay two cruel innkeepers, the Thénardiers, for looking after her daughter Cosette, and the story of the revolutionaries, including Marius, a young man who falls in love later on in the film with the now-adult Cosette.\n\n\nThe film is, for the most part, faithful to the original novel, however, there are some differences:\n\nThe film has been referred to as \"the most complete and well rounded adaptation of Victor Hugo's classic novel\". \n\nRaymond Bernard's version of\" Les Misérables\" was chosen by curator Robert Herbert as one of a number of films to support an exhibition of French drawings held in 2010 at the Art Gallery of New South Wales in Sydney, Australia. The Exhibition was entitled \"David to Cézanne: master drawings from the Prat Collection, Paris.\" It ran from 22 September until 5 December 2010. The film was screened 30 October, 3 November and 7 November in the Gallery's Domain Theatre.\n\nThe Criterion Collection released a restored version of \"Les Misérables\" in their Eclipse DVD line. Its three parts appeared alongside Bernard's \"Wooden Crosses\" (1932) in the Eclipse Series 4: Raymond Bernard collection (2007). This version, totalling 281 minutes (109:52, 85:21 and 86:36), is shorter than the reported 305 minute total runtime of the original release, though it is possible that time may be inaccurate, or includes brief intermissions no longer present. Criterion's DVD liner notes describe how the film was reissued at varying lengths over the following decades and was only restored to its approximate original length shortly before Bernard's death, minus some scenes that could not be recovered.\n\nIn 2013, Pathé carried out a brand new restoration of the film, totalling 289 minutes (115:39, 85:45 and 87:23), and released it on Blu-ray and DVD. Eureka Entertainment also released this version on Blu-ray and DVD in 2014, as part of their Masters of Cinema line.\n\n"}
{"id": "2126629", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126629", "title": "Flakfortet", "text": "Flakfortet\n\nFlakfortet, meaning sand-shoal fortress, is a sea fort located on the artificially built island of \"Saltholmrev\", in the Øresund between Copenhagen and Saltholm. The island and fort are simply known as \"Flakfortet\"; the name of the island; \"Saltholmrev\", meaning the reef near Saltholm, is seldom used.\n\nFlakfortet was the last of three artificial islands that the Danes created to defend the entrance to Copenhagen's harbor. (The other two are Trekroner Fort (the oldest) and Middelgrundsfortet.) Flakfortet's guns covered the Hollænderdybet channel between Middelgrundsfortet and Saltholm, and the Flinterenden channel between Sweden and Saltholm. Eventually Flakfortet became more of a site for anti-aircraft weapons than for coastal artillery. Its military functions ended in 1968.\n\nFlakfortet is currently used for recreational purposes such as concerts, and the site has a restaurant and yacht moorings. During the summer, a ferry company, Spar Shipping, has five scheduled trips per day to the island, with the trip from Nyhavn taking about 40 minutes each way. There is an overnight hostel on the island too.\n\nThe fort was built in the years 1910–1914 as part of Copenhagen's sea-fortifications. The island is high and covers . Construction of the artificial island required the use of caissons of reinforced concrete, possibly the first use of such structures. The caissons were first cast at Lynetten quai on Refshale Island, though the last was cast at Flakfortet itself.\n\nThe fortifications extended over two floors and included a barracks that once housed the garrison of 550 men. Initially, the fort's armament consisted of four 29cm M1910 howitzers, six 21cm M1913 guns, and four 75mm quick-firing guns. Later, it received two 47mm \"ballonkanoner\" (anti-balloon guns), another 75mm, and 8mm machine guns. It also received one 90cm and four 150mm searchlights.\n\nMarshall Plan aid enabled the Danes in 1950 to install a variety of anti-aircraft guns. These included four heavy German 105 mm guns, which were probably moved from Hansted (Hanstholm), six twin-40mm guns (American copies of the Bofors M36, and some 20mm anti-aircraft guns. These newer weapons replaced some of the earlier artillery. Flakfortet then remained in military use until 1957.\n\nIn 1965, the Danes decided to establish a Hawk anti-aircraft missile battery on Middelgrundsfortet. However, this fort required extensive renovation so in the interim (1965-1968), the Danes temporarily placed the HAWK battery on Flakfortet. For almost a decade thereafter the fort again stood unused.\n\nIn 1975, the Danish Ministry of Defence leased Flakfortet to the Copenhagen Sailing Association and opened the site to the public. Unfortunately, one result was that during this period the fort was the victim of extensive vandalism.\n\nThe Danish Ministry of Defence owned Flakfortet until 2001. It was put up for sale in 1999 under the guidance of Statens Ejendomssalg (commonly known as \"Freja\"), which is the department under the Danish Ministry of Finance responsible for selling surplus state-owned property.\n\nIn June 2001 the Swedish company Malmökranen purchased Flakfortet. The sale also required the approval of the Danish Forest and Nature Agency, which is the organization responsible for environmental protection in Denmark. As the fort is a Danish designated protected area, the new owners undertook to maintain the area and make it publicly available.\n\nIn 2008 the new owners, together with the Swedish conductor Kristofer Wåhlander, arranged the fort's first ever classical music festival, Music at the Fort, with audiences coming in from both Sweden and Denmark.\n\n"}
{"id": "2126637", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126637", "title": "Thomas Colyear, 4th Earl of Portmore", "text": "Thomas Colyear, 4th Earl of Portmore\n\nThomas Charles Colyear, 4th Earl of Portmore (27 March 1772 – 18 January 1835), styled Viscount Milsington from 1785 until 1823, was a British politician.\n\nLord Portmore was the son of William Colyear, 3rd Earl of Portmore and succeeded him to his titles upon his death. He was married twice; in 1793 he married Lady Mary Elizabeth Bertie (d. 1797), daughter of Brownlow Bertie, 5th Duke of Ancaster and Kesteven, by whom he had a son:\n\nIn 1828 Lord Portmore married Frances Murrells, by whom he had no issue.\n\nLord Portmore was a Member of Parliament (MP) for the borough of Boston in Lincolnshire from 1796 to 1802.\n\nLord Milsington was an English amateur cricketer who made three known appearances in first-class cricket matches from 1792 to 1793. He was mainly associated with Hampshire and was an early member of Marylebone Cricket Club.\n\n"}
{"id": "2126640", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126640", "title": "Aradan", "text": "Aradan\n\nAradan may refer to:\n"}
{"id": "2126650", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126650", "title": "Rajat Gupta", "text": "Rajat Gupta\n\nRajat Kumar Gupta (; born ) is an Indian-American businessman who, as CEO, was the first foreign-born managing director of management consultancy firm McKinsey & Company from 1994 to 2003. In 2012, he was convicted for insider trading and spent two years in jail. Gupta was a board member of corporations including Goldman Sachs, Procter & Gamble and American Airlines, and an advisor to non-profits such as the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation and The Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria. He is the co-founder of the Indian School of Business, American India Foundation, New Silk Route and Scandent Solutions.\n\nGupta was convicted in June 2012 on insider trading charges of four criminal felony counts of conspiracy and securities fraud in the Galleon scandal. He was sentenced in October 2012 to two years in prison, an additional year on supervised release and ordered to pay $5 million in fines. His conviction was upheld by a Federal Appeals Court on March 25, 2014. He then lodged an appeal with the U.S. Supreme Court which was subsequently upheld in April 2015. An application to remain free until the court determined whether it would hear the appeal was denied in June 2014 leaving Gupta having to commence his two-year prison term that month. He was released on monitored house arrest in January 2016 and from house arrest in March 2016.\n\nRajat Gupta was born in Calcutta to a Bengali Baidya father Ashwini Gupta and a Punjabi mother Pran Kumari. His father was a journalist for Ananda Publishers and a professor in Calcutta's Ripon College prior to that. His mother taught at a Montessori school. Gupta has three siblings.\n\nWhen Gupta was five the family moved to New Delhi, where his father went to start the Delhi-edition of the newspaper \"Hindustan Standard\". Gupta's father died when Gupta was sixteen; Gupta's mother died two years later. Now orphans, Gupta and his siblings \"decided to live by ourselves. It was pretty unusual in those days.\"\n\nHe was a student at Modern School in New Delhi. After high school, Gupta ranked 15th in the nation in the entrance exam for the Indian Institutes of Technology, IIT JEE. He received a Bachelor of Technology degree in Mechanical Engineering from the Indian Institute of Technology Delhi (IIT-Delhi) in 1971. Declining a job from the prestigious domestic firm ITC Limited, he received an MBA from Harvard Business School (HBS) in 1973. Gupta graduated with distinction as a Baker Scholar.<ref name=\"https://books.google.com/books?id\">Helyar, John, Carol Hymowitz and Mehul Srivastava. “Rajat Gupta Secretly Defied McKinsey Before SEC Says Rajaratnam Was Tipped”. \"Bloomberg Markets Magazine.\" May 16, 2011.</ref> Gupta remarked that the first time he saw an airplane was when he flew to ITC at their request to inform them he would be attending Harvard.\n\nGupta joined McKinsey & Company in 1973 as one of the earliest Indian-Americans at the consultancy. He was initially rejected because of inadequate work experience, a decision that was overturned after his Harvard Business School professor Walter J. Salmon called Ron Daniel, then head of the New York office and later also the managing director of McKinsey, wrote on Gupta's behalf.\n\nGupta's mentors at McKinsey included Ron Daniel, the former managing director who as senior partner first hired Gupta into the New York office, and Anupam (Tino) Puri, the first Indian at the firm and eventual senior partner. He, in turn, mentored Anil Kumar as another early Indian-American at the consultancy. Gupta and Kumar \"were the face of McKinsey in India.\" According to \"The Financial Times,\" \"the two operated as a forceful double-act to secure business for McKinsey, win access in Washington and build a brotherhood of donors around the Hyderabad-based ISB and a handful of social initiatives.\" \n\nGupta began his career in New York before moving to Scandinavia to become the head of McKinsey offices in 1981. He did well in what was then considered a \"backwater\" area; this is where he first made his mark. Elected senior partner in 1984, he became head of the Chicago office in 1990.\n\nIn 1994 he was elected the firm's first managing director (chief executive) born outside of the US, and then re-elected twice in 1997 and 2000. Gupta is widely regarded as one of the first Indians to successfully break through the glass ceiling, as the first Indian-born CEO of a multinational corporation (not just a consultancy). During Gupta's time as head of McKinsey, the firm opened offices in 23 new countries and doubled its consultant base to 891 partners, increasing revenue 280 percent to $3.4 billion. His annual salary was estimated at $5–10 million USD.\n\nHowever Gupta's tenure was marked by controversy. When Gupta joined McKinsey, it was a small partnership run according to the high standards of its early leader, Marvin Bower, but by the time Gupta became managing director, McKinsey was under pressure from an increasingly competitive market, and Gupta's expansion efforts were said to have watered down McKinsey's vaunted principles. Enron, closely identified with McKinsey, collapsed during his time as managing director. During the dot-com bubble he and Anil Kumar created a program for McKinsey to accept payment from its clients in stock. Gupta's accountability for the shifting of standards was weighed differently by different observers, and some defended him noting that the managing director's job was like trying to \"herd cats\"; Gupta himself described it as \"a sort of servant-leader job,\" with \"at least 150, if not 400, leaders\". In what was seen as a reaction against Gupta's aggressive firm expansion, Gupta's successor Ian Davis was elected by \"emphasizing the need for a return to the McKinsey heritage\".\n\nAfter completing three full terms (the maximum allowed, by a rule he had himself initiated) and nearly a decade as head of the firm, Gupta became senior partner again in 2003 and senior partner emeritus in 2007. According to close friends when he stepped down as McKinsey management director, Gupta lost what NYU's Lechner called \"the halo effect\" including the tremendous status afforded by his previous role. Gupta reportedly began to express a certain resentment about money, as his peers in Silicon Valley and Wall Street (including McKinsey's private equity clients) at the time \"raking in staggering amounts of money while Gupta soldiered on with a mere senior partner's millions\".\n\nGupta maintained an office, executive assistant, email and phone at McKinsey and Company after 2007, and maintains the title \"senior partner emeritus\" of the firm. He also continued to receive a salary from McKinsey as senior partner emeritus, totaling $6 million in 2008 and $2.5 million for each of the following three years. However, in the wake of subsequent scandals a McKinsey spokesperson was quoted as saying, \"Our firm no longer has a professional relationship with Rajat Gupta.\" According to \"NDTV\", \"sources tell us that the firm dropped Mr Gupta from its alumni database, and called clients worldwide to say that they would have nothing to do with him going forward.\" The manner in which the firm severed ties with its former head attracted some controversy. After his release from prison, Gupta continued to be rebuffed by McKinsey.\n\nIn 1997 Gupta co-founded the Indian School of Business (ISB) with friend and fellow senior partner Anil Kumar. The school was ranked number 13 in the world by \"The Financial Times\" in its Global MBA Rankings 2011. Gupta and Kumar have both since resigned as chairman and executive board director respectively.\n\nBefore stepping down as managing director he co-founded Scandent Solutions with Ramesh Vangal and the American India Foundation with Victor Menezes and Lata Krishnan. After McKinsey Gupta co-founded and chaired the private equity firm New Silk Route, formerly named Taj Capital Partners, with Parag Saxena and Victor Menezes.\n\nIn 2005, five years after Raj Rajaratnam \"gave generously to two of Gupta's favorite Indian causes\", Gupta, Rajaratnam and Ravi Trehan, an investor via BroadStreet Group and another friend of Gupta, co-founded Voyager Capital, 80% owned by Rajaratnam and capitalized at $50 million.\n\nGupta has served on several high-profile corporate boards as a director during his career. He became a member of the board of Procter & Gamble in 2007, and held that post until March 2011. He was also a member of the board of investment bank Goldman Sachs from 2006 until the expiration of his term in 2010. Gupta was also the non-executive chairman of Genpact from 2007 until March 2011. He also served on the board of AMR, the parent company of American Airlines, from 2008 until 2011, and on the board of Harman International from 2009 to 2011. Gupta has also served on the board of Russian bank Sberbank, and as a managing advisor to Symphony Technology Group.\n\nGupta has also served as a director of various financial groups. In addition to his work at Goldman Sachs, Gupta served as an advisory partner with Fjord Capital Partners and as chairman of the advisory board for Clutch Group. Gupta was also a member of the advisory board for OmniCapital Group.\n\nGupta's philanthropic, charitable, and volunteer efforts mainly focus on the areas of education, global health, and global business.\n\nIn the past, Gupta has been involved with a number of universities and other educational institutions, volunteering and serving as chairman and member of several boards and councils. As of 2011, he has either resigned or taken leaves of absence from the boards on which he served as director or chairman.\n\nIn June 1995, Gupta was elected to the University of Chicago's board of trustees. He also served as a member of the Yale President's Council.\n\nGupta co-founded the Indian Institute of Technology Alumni Association. He was chairman and served on the advisory board.\n\nWith Anil Kumar, Gupta co-founded the Indian School of Business, and was chairman of the governing and executive boards.\n\nGupta served as chairman of the board of associates of the Harvard Business School, and was a member of the board of governors for the Lauder Institute of Management & International Studies at The Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania. Additionally he served on the Dean's advisory council at the MIT Sloan School of Management and on the advisory board of Northwestern University's Kellogg School of Management.\n\nGupta was a member of the Dean's advisory board of Tsinghua University School of Economics and Management, and was on the board of Skolkovo.\nGupta was on the boards of Millennium Promise and the Pratham India Education Initiative.\n\nIn 2009, he was elected as a Member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. In 2011, he became a founding member of the Young India Fellowship. He is the former Co-Chairman of the United Nations Association of America.\n\nGupta's activities in global health include serving as a founding board member and then chairman for The Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria. He served from April 2007 to March 2011. He was the co-founder and founding chairman of the Public Health Foundation of India. He was on the board of the Emergency Management and Research Institute, Health Management Research Institute, International Partnership for Microbicides, Board for the Global Health Council, the Global Health Council and the Harvard School of Public Health, and the Weill Cornell Medical College. He was chairman of the advisory board and the India AIDS initiative of The Gates Foundation and its Global Health Initiative until 2011. He is a former member of the United Nations Commission on the Private Sector and Development. In March 2006, he was named the founding chairman for the Public Health Foundation of India (PHFI). He remained in that position until resigning in March 2011.\n\nIn addition, he was the co-founder and co-chairman of the American India Foundation (AIF), the largest diaspora philanthropy organization focused on India and based out of the US. He began the organization in response to an earthquake that struck India in 2001, with its initial goal to help victims. From 2006-2011, he served as a trustee for the Rockefeller Foundation.\n\nThroughout his career, Gupta has been a part of various global business initiatives. He was previously the chairman of the International Chamber of Commerce, and was appointed as special assistant to the Secretary General for Management Reform for UN Secretary General Kofi Annan in 2005. From 2008 to 2010, Gupta was a member of the foundation board for the World Economic Forum. Gupta was chairman of the U.S.-India Business Council from 2002 to 2005. He served on Indian Prime Minister Manmohan Singh's global advisory council from its inception until early 2012.\n\nOn March 1, 2009, the SEC filed an administrative civil complaint against Gupta for insider trading with billionaire and Galleon Group hedge fund founder Rajaratnam. Coverage of the event noted that Anil Kumar — who, like Gupta, had graduated from IIT, was a highly regarded senior partner at McKinsey, and had also co-founded the Indian School of Business — had already pleaded guilty to charges in the same case. Gupta, Kumar, and Rajaratnam were all close friends and business partners. Gupta countersued and both sides eventually dropped charges.\n\nOn October 26, 2010 the United States Attorney's Office filed criminal charges against Gupta. He was arrested in New York City by the FBI and pleaded not guilty. He was released on $10 million bail on the same day. Gupta's lawyer wrote, \"Any allegation that Rajat Gupta engaged in any unlawful conduct is totally baseless ... He did not trade in any securities, did not tip Mr. Rajaratnam so he could trade, and did not share in any profits as part of any quid pro quo.\" The SEC alleged, \"The tips generated 'illicit profits and loss avoidance' of more than $23 million.\" Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara said, \"Rajat Gupta was entrusted by some of the premier institutions of American business to sit inside their boardrooms, among their executives and directors, and receive their confidential information so that he could give advice and counsel.\"\n\nDetails of wiretap recordings and trading activity related to the charges were analyzed at length in the media, assessing the strengths and weaknesses of the prosecution's and defense's cases.\n\nThe case focused on the relationship between Raj Rajaratnam, Anil Kumar and Gupta. Gupta, Rajaratnam, and Kumar were all involved to varying degrees as founding partners of private-equity firms Taj Capital and New Silk Route, though Rajaratnam and Kumar left before they began operation. Gupta remained as chairman of New Silk Route, and Rajaratnam eventually invested $50 million in the fund.\n\nRajat Gupta's jury trial began on May 22, 2012. On June 15, 2012, Gupta was found guilty on three counts of securities fraud and one count of conspiracy. He was found not guilty on two other securities fraud charges. At the time, his lawyer told reporters, \"We will be moving to set aside the verdict and will, if necessary, appeal the conviction.\" The maximum sentence for securities fraud is 20 years and the maximum sentence for conspiracy is five years. In arguments in mid-October, prosecutors favored prison time of up to 10 years while defense attorneys favored probation and community service. As one service option, the latter suggested Gupta \"work on health care and agriculture in rural Rwanda\". Prosecutors based their recommendation in part on $11.2 million profits, or losses avoided, by Rajaratnam based on the tips. The defense argued Gupta \"never profited on the alleged trading\" per one news account.\n\nOn October 24, 2012, Gupta was sentenced to two years in prison by Judge Jed Rakoff of the United States District Court in Manhattan for leaking boardroom secrets to former hedge fund manager Raj Rajaratnam. His conviction was upheld by a Federal Appeals Court on March 25, 2014. His prison sentence began on June 17. On June 11, 2014 US Supreme Court rejected Gupta's bail plea, a week before his prison term began.\n\nGupta was released from federal prison on January 5, 2016, on house arrest and required to live at his Manhattan home. He was allowed to go to an office during weekdays starting in January, according to an unnamed source.\nThe house arrest ended in March 2016. Having once rejected the argument, in February 2016 the US Second Circuit Court of Appeals in Manhattan agreed to hear Gupta's appeal to overturn his conviction.\nThe appeal was turned down by the Federal Court on January 7, 2019 \n\nGupta's memoir, \"Mind Without Fear\", was published by Juggernaut Books in March 2019. In a detailed one hour interview subsequent to publication, he described his side of the story. He said he did not speak during his trial based on the advice of his lawyers.\n\nRajat Gupta married Anita Mattoo, two years his junior, in 1973 after they had met at IIT Delhi. She was an electrical engineer, and according to him \"a much smarter student\" than himself. The couple met at college debates and plays. Mattoo came from Srinagar, Kashmir, India.\n\nGupta owns several properties that he uses for both work and pleasure:\n\nAccording to the \"Economic Times,\" \"His big mansion in Connecticut is like a public dharamsala, where friends, professors and McKinsey colleagues are encouraged to come and live, often with their families. He is also known to ask colleagues to take a break at his Colorado ranch with their families - something unheard of in the McKinsey world at that time.\"\n\nGupta has four daughters: Geetanjali Gupta-Nwanze, Megha, Aditi and Deepali. On June 21, 2008, Geetanjali Gupta married Chukwuemeka Nwanze, an Igbo from Asaba, Nigeria, son of Vincent Nwanze, former Deputy Consul-General at the Nigerian Consulate in New York. The wedding was held at Rajat Gupta's house in Westport, Connecticut. Geetanjali was reported to be a Harvard BA, MBA and JD as well as a manager of the Harvard endowment fund.\n\nGupta's net worth in 2008 was estimated at $84 million USD.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2126651", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126651", "title": "Troupes de marine", "text": "Troupes de marine\n\nThe Troupes de marine (TDM, ) is a subdivision of the French Army that includes several specialities: infantry, artillery, armoured, airborne, engineering and transmissions (Signals). \nDespite its name, it forms part of the Army, not the Navy. The TDM has gradually become professionalized since 1970.\n\nThe \"Troupes de marine\" were formerly known as the \"Troupes Coloniales\", with origins dating back to the \"Troupes de la marine\" (in reference to Troupes of La Marine). The French colonies were under the control of the Ministère de la Marine (the equivalent of the British Admiralty), accordingly, marines defended the colonies.\n\nRenamed \"Troupes d'Outre-Mer\" then \"Troupes de Marine\" during the dismantling of the French Union (1958), their origin can actually be found in the \"Compagnies Ordinaires de la Mer\" () (\"Ordinary Sea Companies\"), created in 1622 by Cardinal Richelieu. These companies were used to embark on royal naval ships to serve the naval artillery and participate in the boarding of enemy ships. These companies were also in charge of guarding the various sea ports. Despite the fact that the artillery of the marines was limited in numbers compared to those of the infantry marines (fusiliers and grenadiers), the ship's marine artillerymen were the determining factor for the \"Troupes de la marine\", being in charge of displacing and mounting the naval guns under the orders of the respective marine artillery officer in charge. In the 18th century, they constituted the \"Compagnies Franches de la Marine\" who essentially spread to \"Nouvelle France\" ( particularity: these marines were recruited in Europe, with marine officers recruited then on the spot due to an excellent knowledge of the local environment).\n\nDecimated along with the rest of the Marines during the Seven Years' War, these troops were transferred to the French Army under the Choiseul ministries, and after their emancipation at the end of 1760, they retained a large number of officers issued from the Ministère de la Guerre, which would reproduce and compensate for the endured losses during the Independence War of the United States (U.S.). An evolution in the mentality of the troops and an increasingly pronounced separation between the marines and their officers followed. A tentative close-up merger was attempted by two naval ship corps and their troops in 1786 with the companies of artillery sailors; however, the experiment came to little conclusion.\n\nThe separate companies of the \"Régiment Royal–La Marine\" and the \"Régiment de l'Amiral de France\" founded by Colbert were based in Dunkerque, Le Havre, Brest, Rochefort and Toulon. They wore an off-white/grey uniform with blue facings .\n\nThe 1670s saw significant changes in the organisation of the new corps, administered by Ministers Colbert and François-Michel le Tellier, Marquis de Louvois, respectively Naval State Secretary and the Secretary of State of War. The four regiments of the la marine were transferred from the secretariat of La Marine to that of the secretariat of La Guerre. The regiments were no longer directly part of the French Navy although the designation \"Troupes de marin\" was retained. During the Revolution, the La Marine, Royal-Marine, Royal-Vaisseux, and the Régiment de l'Amiral ( re-baptized \"Régiment de Vermandois\") regiments were integrated definitively into the French Army, becoming respectively, the 11, 60, 43 and 61 regiments of de Ligne in 1791.\n\nThe Marine Royale was a substantial force in 1671, consisting of 196 naval vessels. Colbert decided to create 100 companies of \"guardian-soldiers\" intended to form part of the crews of the larger naval vessels (). However, these men were redirected towards the French Army by Louvois in 1673. Starting from this date, senior naval and marine officers were obliged to separately recruit crews and marines for each ship. Utilising a system of «levées» (selective conscription) in the various sea ports, similar to the « marine press », the naval and marine officers were able to man their ships. However, the system reached its limitations quickly. The recruits often lacked discipline and experience, and were discharged or deserted following their first voyage, wasting months of training. Until 1682 there was a serious shortage of experienced sailors and soldiers in the French Navy.\n\nThe Marine units were recreated at the end of the 17th century by re-organization of the infantry units dedicated to guarding military harbors (the Warden-Soldiers Companies or \"compagnies de soldats-gardiens\", created in 1671) and the artillery units dedicated to coastal battery service (Bomb Companies or \"compagnies de bombardiers\", created in 1689), naval artillery training (Apprentice Gunner Companies or \"compagnies d'apprentis-cannoniers\", created in 1689) and naval artillery administration (Artillery Commissaries or \"Commissaires d'artillerie\", created in 1631). \n\nThe infantry and marine artillery units were briefly merged into a single marine corps in 1769. Some colonial units were created at the same time, organized along the same lines of artillery and infantry units.\n\nAfter 1786, the Marine units were often reduced to artillery units, except for some short-lived infantry regiments (1792–1794). \n\nThe colonial expansion of the 19th century saw the extensive use of French sailors and marines serving together in Southeast Asia, the Pacific, and West Africa. The \"troupes de marine\" were tasked with insuring the French presence in its Asian, African, and American colonies.\n\nThe revolutionary period saw a definite division in 1792 between the reconstituted \"troupes de marine\" and the ships of the navy. Under Napoleon, the \"troupes de marine\" were utilized primarily as line infantry. Following the disbandment of the Imperial Guard, under the Restoration, separate marine artillery (\"Artillerie de Marine\") and marine infantry (\"Infanterie de Marine\") units were created as part of a reorganization between 1818 and 1822. These two corps were popularly known as « bigors » and « marsouins » respectively. Starting in 1831, these two arms ceased to serve on board naval ships and were exclusively armed with regular army equipment and weapons. Their role was now to serve on land in the new French colonial territories, as well as defending the large naval ports and bases in France itself.\n\nThe diverse colonial or exterior operations administered by the July Monarchy, essentially conducted by the Marines and their troops, led to the rehabilitation and the increase of the latter in 1846. The revolution of 1848 led to a draconian reduction in size. The Crimean War saw them, along with the equipment of naval vessels of the fleet, illustrating their capability during the Siege of Sevastopol while aiding the heavy artillery pieces ( to constitute a siege artillery ) to disembark from the naval vessels under the orders of Admiral Charles Rigault de Genouilly.\n\nHonored since 1855, with the return of their staff of 1846, the marines demonstrated their capability during the expeditions of the Second French Empire.\n\nIn 1870, marine artillery and infantry were for the first time regrouped in a grand unit: Blue Division of general Élie de Vassoigne, named after the blue uniforms worn by the soldiers in order to differentiate them from the line troops. Following the Franco-Prussian War, the marines participated to the construction of the second colonial empire of France.\n\nThe February 21, 1816, royal ordinance of Louis XVIII re-establishing ' authorized two regiments. This was increased to three regiments in 1838 and four in 1854. The 1st Regiment was located in Cherbourg, the 2nd in Brest, the 3rd in Rochefort and the 4th in Toulon. In 1890, ' was increased to eight regiments. \", created in 1793, was formed into a single regiment in 1814. A second was added on July 8, 1893. Battles fought in this era included Bomarsund (1854) in the Baltic, Ki Hoa in China (1860), and the Battle of Puebla in Mexico (1863). Their most famous battle was Bazeilles (1870) in the Franco-Prussian War.\n\nThe \" fought in the Sino-French War (August 1884 to April 1885) and during the period of undeclared hostilities in Tonkin (northern Vietnam) that preceded it. Between June 1883 and April 1886 the Tonkin Expeditionary Corps included several marine infantry battalions and marine artillery batteries. These units saw service in the Sơn Tây Campaign (December 1883), the Bắc Ninh Campaign (March 1884), the Capture of Hưng Hóa (April 1884), the Bắc Lệ ambush (June 1884), the Keelung Campaign (October 1884 to June 1885), the Battle of Yu Oc (November 1884), the Battle of Núi Bop (January 1885), the Lạng Sơn Campaign (February 1885) and the Pescadores Campaign (March 1885). In March 1885 the two marine infantry battalions in Lieutenant-Colonel Ange-Laurent Giovanninelli's 1st Brigade suffered heavy casualties storming the Chinese trenches at the Battle of Hòa Mộc. The French victory at Hòa Mộc relieved the Siege of Tuyên Quang, and was commemorated thereafter in an annual ceremony at Tuyên Quang in which a soldier of the French Foreign Legion (representing the besieged garrison) and a marine infantrymen (representing the relief column) solemnly presented arms on the anniversary of the relief of the beleaguered French post.\n\nThe French Navy itself, due to the trouble it was having in obtaining marine infantry detachments from the Ministry of Marine, formed the Fusiliers Marins in 1856. The \"\" were initially composed of sailors and naval officers who undertook special infantry training in order to form the \"marine\" detachments aboard ships and conduct small scale landings.\n\nIn 1890 the Ministry of Colonies was separated from that of the Ministère de la Marine. This raised the question of to which authority the \"troupes de Marine\", who only now served in the colonies, should be responsible. By a decree dated July 7, 1900 the renamed troops were placed under the Département de la Guerre and were renamed as Troupes coloniales.\n\nThe \"Troupes colonials\" were composed of two distinct corps. One was the colonial forces in metropolitan France, composed of European volunteers enlisted for renewable periods of five years. These regulars were assigned in small contingents to undertake tours of duty in the various French colonies outside North Africa. There they served either in \"blanches\" (all white) units, or were employed as officers and NCOs in the recruitment, training and leadership of locally recruited indigenous troops (tirailleurs, cipayes etc.). The proportion of European to \"native\" colonial troops were progressively reduced as additional locally recruited units were created during the late 19th and earlier 20th centuries.\n\nOne problem of this system was the differences between the training and equipment required for colonial and European warfare. Service conditions in turn would differ between the various colonial territories in Africa and South East Asia. The two types of colonial troupes were however successfully employed in World War I and World War II, as well as the Indochina War and the Algerian War.\n\nThe Construction Service of the marine artillery (which designed and engineered the naval artillery guns in the metropolitan arsenals), became an integral part of the colonial artillery following the reorganisation of 1900. In 1909 those colonial artillery officers who specialised in artillery design and manufacture work were transferred into the newly created \"Engineers of Naval Artillery\"; a newly created corps of the French Navy which subsequently merged with the Naval Engineer Corps (responsible for the construction of naval ships) during the Second World War.\n\nThe \"Troupes colonials\" distinguished themselves in both World Wars. The most decorated regimental colors of the French Armed Forces are those of the Colonial Infantry Regiment of Morocco (RICM) and the regimental colors of the 2nd Marine Infantry Regiment 2 RIMa. After 1945 the decolonization wars involved the colonial troops in Indochina, Algeria, and Madagascar. Following 1962, operations in Africa were undertaken by the again renamed \"troupes de Marine\" and the French Foreign Legion which were the only units mainly or entirely composed of \"engaged\" (non-conscript) soldiers. This was also the case in Tchad and in Lebanon and the former Yugoslavia before metropolitan troops started also to recruit volunteer soldiers. The cessation of obligatory military service after 2001, permitted the deployment of the remainder of the French Army overseas.\n\nOn 7 July 1900 the ' were removed from the responsibility of the ', transferred to the Ministry of War and added to the French Army as \"Troupes Coloniales\". The regimental titles changed from \"Marine\" to \"Colonial\". The ' remained part of the French Navy. The ' were still used in occasional amphibious landings but this was because of the ready availability of units normally based near naval embarkation ports or in colonial garrisons. In the World War I Dardanelles campaign, the Corps Expeditionaire d'Orient was more than two-thirds \"\" including the 4th, 6th, 7th and 8th Colonial Infantry Regiments and Colonial Artillery. The \"Troupes Coloniales\" were however far more likely to see action in African or Asian land campaigns or, during both World Wars, in France itself.\n\nIn World War II, one Colonial unit did have \"Marine\" in its title – The Bataillon d'Infanterie de Marine du Pacifique (BIMP). Two divisions of the \"\" were trained in amphibious tactics by the Americans and performed amphibious landings at Corsica (6th Moroccan Mountain Division) and Elba (9th Colonial Infantry Division – 9e DIC). Both these divisions also landed in southern France in the follow-on echelons of Operation Dragoon. The French wanted the United States to transport these two divisions to the Pacific to fight against the Japanese and later retake French Indochina, but transport was a problem.\n\nWith France divesting itself of its colonies, on 1 December 1958 the title of \"Troupes d' Outre-Mer\" (Overseas Troops) replaced that of \"Troupes Coloniales\". Finally, on 4 May 1961, the historic designation of \"Troupes de marine\" was readopted, this time for all the \"Troupes Coloniales\". They became a major component in France's Forces d'Intervention. In July 1963 the 9th Marine Infantry Brigade (9 Brigade d'Infanterie de Marine) (9 BIMa) of the ' was formed a French Force d'Intervention. It was named after and carried the insignia of the 9th Colonial Infantry Division (9 DIC) that had performed a successful amphibious assault on Elba in World War II. The ' remaining overseas became part of the Forces d'outre mer. In 1964 the Force d'Intervention was expanded by adding two airborne brigades and one motorized brigade and formed into the 11th ', which became the 11th Parachute Division in 1971. The ' were removed from this division in 1976 to form a separate intervention force, and the ' was expanded on 1 January 1976 to form the ' (9e DIMa). This division was the amphibious component of the Force d'Intervention, which was renamed the Force d'Action Rapide (FAR) in 1983.\n\nBecause of their overseas heritage and their use in the Force d'Intervention, the ' were mostly volunteer regulars, as in France, draftees are legally exempt from overseas duty. The conversion of the French Army into a smaller professional force led to the French Army's decision to make the brigade its largest formation and the ' was reduced in size on 1 July 1999 and became the 9th Light Armoured Marine Brigade (France) (\"\") and then back to the 9th Marine Infantry Brigade (9ème Brigade d'Infanterie de Marine) in 2016.\n\nThe \"Troupes de marine\" are one of the \"\" (corps) of the French Army, which includes specialties associated with other corps (artillery, cavalry, signals, armour, paratroopers) but with overseas deployment as a specialisation.\n\n\"Troupes de marine\" soldiers are known in French as \"\" (\"Harbour porpoise\"), allegedly because, like porpoises, they accompany ships without really being part of the crew.\n\nMarine Gunners are known as \"bigors\", a nickname whose origin is disputed. It could come from ' which was the order given for loading the guns on a ship. It could also come from ' (winkle in English), either due to their toughness and unwillingness to desert their positions in combat or because their duties usually had them stuck on coastal rocks.\n\nThe \"Troupes de Marine\" include:\n\nThe modern \"Troupes de marine\" uniform is the same as for other units of the French Army (light beige, plain green or woodland or desert camouflage according to circumstances). Distinctive features are a gold metal fouled anchor badge on a dark blue beret (Marine paratroopers wear red berets and their badge is a composite of the gold metal anchor and the silver wing of airborne units). This is worn either on the beret or embroidered on the front of the kepi.\n\nThe modern full dress includes a dark blue kepi, yellow fringed epaulettes (official colour name is daffodil) and a navy blue cravat (scarf worn around the neck). A red waist sash is also sometimes worn by certain units with a history of colonial service in Africa and Indo-China.\n\nHistorically, the uniform consisted of a blue kepi with red piping, double breasted navy blue tunic, lighter blue trousers, and yellow epaulettes. Worn by all ranks until 1914, the blue uniform was reissued for regular personnel in 1930 and is still worn by bandsmen. This traditional uniform gave the nickname of \"the Blue Division\" to the \"Troupes de marine\" units involved in the 1870 Franco-Prussian War. The pith helmet was worn overseas during the colonial period, with blue, khaki or white uniforms according to circumstances. Until the early 1960s a dark blue \"calot\" (forage cap) with red piping and anchor badge was the usual distinction of the \"Troupes de marine\".\n\nThe modern kepi is presented to new recruits in a solemn ceremony. It is worn by officers and non-commissioned officers when another headdress is not prescribed. The kepi is entirely dark blue – a very dark blue, often mistaken for black – with a red (privates and corporals) or gold (non-commissioned officers and officers) trimming. All kepis display the anchor insignia of the Marines. When not being worn the kepi is expected to be positioned so that the anchor is always visible.\n\nThe \"traditional\" epaulettes used by the TdM are gold for officers and NCOs and wool of \"daffodil\" yellow for other ranks. This colour and pattern is derived from the historic epaulettes of the Metropolitan light infantry.\n\nThe officers of marine \"mounted\" units (that is to say those formerly using horses, or currently armored vehicles) have the privilege of wearing gold spurs for certain occasions. This differs from the usual French cavalry practice of wearing silver spurs. Tradition has it that Queen Victoria of the United Kingdom requested this distinction for the marine troops from Emperor Napoleon III to honor the branch after the Battle of Balaclava in the Crimea (1854) where marine infantry saved British troops from destruction.\nThe officers and senior non commissioned-officer can wear, in special circumstances, a sword as a part of their dress uniform. This sword has a straight-edge blade, in contrast to other Army Corps' curved sabers and thus similar to those of the Royal Marines and the rest of the British Armed Forces. Since the Second World War, the sword is very rarely used.\n\nThe armored, artillery and infantry regiments of the Marines wear dark blue berets with golden anchor insignia. The parachute regiments of the Marines (1 RPIMa, 2 RPIMa, 3 RPIMa, 8 RPIMa) wear a red beret with anchor and wing insignia, except the 1 RPIMa, a Special Forces regiment, where soldiers wear a purple beret.\n\nThe red beret was first introduced to the Free French Paratroopers of the SAS in August 1944, at the 2 RCP during a parade on November 11, 1944, this regiment for a first time dressed this beret with the insignia of the SAS. However, these paratroopers then belonged to the Air Force. In Indochina, the Infantry Metropolitan SAS Demi-Brigade retained the practice, which was readopted by the 1st SAS Parachute Demi-Brigade in 1948. The red beret, which was officially introduced as the standard uniform headdress on all Paratroopers in Indochina in 1952 by Général Jean de Lattre de Tassigny (except for the Legion), became the norm for all airborne contingents of the French Army in 1957, with legionnaires paratroopers retaining their traditional green beret, and the 1 RPIMa which transitioned to a purple beret in 2015.\n\nThe nickname used by Marsouins and Bigors for the other branches of the French Army is biffins (slang for ragmen). The name originated in the nineteenth century when sailors of the Fleet and Marine Infantry and Artillerymen, proud of their own smart appearance, accused the soldiers of the Army of being slovenly by comparison. The Legion is excused this nickname, probably reflecting a special relation between Marsouins and legionnaires.\n\n\"The Feast of the Marines: in the name of God, long live the colonials!\" This expression is believed to have originated with the famous missionary Charles de Foucauld who, when rescued by colonial troops, exclaimed \"In the name of God, the great colonials!\". Annual ceremonies celebrating the marine troops take place on August 31 and September 1 – the anniversary of the Blue Division. On August 31 detachments of all marine units parade at Fréjus where the Museum of Marine Troops is located. On 1 September veterans hold a ceremony at Bazeilles in Ardennes.\n\nAs a naval symbol since ancient times, the anchor appeared on the uniforms of French sailors from the late eighteenth century. The Marine Infantry and Artillery troops adopted this insignia at the same time and it remains the modern symbol of the \"Troupes de marine\".\n\nThe particular role of this branch of the French Army is to consolidate various specialties: infantry, artillery, cavalry (armored), parachuting and transmission. These specialties, which are consolidated in the \"Troupes de marine\" branch, form separate arms in the rest of the Army.\n\n\n\n\nThis song is sung at a brisk pace to marching music\n\nFormed initially to be deployed for service on France's overseas territories to maintain French interests, the marine troops have acquired a culture of openness. In addition, foreign missions have required the weapon it covers areas of varied specialties (combat infantry and armor, fire support, communications ...) the exercise of which, today, reinforces a long history of professionalization.\n\nTranscending the concept of mastering military equipment and technologies, the marine troops to unite around a single symbol, the traditional golden anchor, that for those who serve marks a unique style whose main features are:\n\nThese high values of identity give meaning to the commitment of the Marsouin and Bigord and always based natural vocation of the marine troops serving both in the French overseas territories and abroad.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2126652", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126652", "title": "William Colyear, 3rd Earl of Portmore", "text": "William Colyear, 3rd Earl of Portmore\n\nWilliam Charles Colyear, 3rd Earl of Portmore (1745–1823) was a Scottish peer, styled Viscount Milsington until 1785.\n\nHe was the second but only surviving son of Charles Colyear, 2nd Earl of Portmore, and his wife Juliana. He was styled Viscount Milsingtion in 1756 on the death of his brother David.\n\nMilsington was educated at Eton and St John's College, Cambridge. In 1774, he unsuccessfully contested the constituency of Evesham as a Tory. \n\nOn 5 November 1770, he married Mary Leslie (1753–99), second daughter of the 10th Earl of Rothes. Their children included:\n\n\nThe deaths of the couple's two daughters, Lady Mary and Lady Julia, in Bath, within three hours of one another on the same day in 1800, were the subject of a poem by Mary Young Sewell.\n\nLike his father the earl, Viscount Milsington was a racehorse owner; he and his wife were regular racegoers. His grey mare, Tiffany, won the 50 l. weight-for-age race at Salisbury Races in 1780 and his horse Scarf ran in the 1781 Derby. \n\nHe succeeded as the 3rd Earl of Portmore on the death of his father in 1785. He died in London in 1823 and was succeeded by his son Thomas Charles Colyear, 4th Earl of Portmore.\n\n"}
{"id": "2126658", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126658", "title": "Acanthocyte", "text": "Acanthocyte\n\nAcanthocyte (from the Greek word ἄκανθα \"acantha\", meaning 'thorn'), in biology and medicine, refers to an abnormal form of red blood cell that has a spiked cell membrane, due to thorny projections. A similar term is spur cells. Often they may be confused with echinocytes or schistocytes.\n\nAcanthocytes have coarse, weirdly spaced, variably sized crenations, resembling many-pointed stars. They are seen on blood films in, among others abetalipoproteinemia, liver disease, chorea acanthocytosis, McLeod syndrome, and several inherited neurological and other disorders, such as neuroacanthocytosis, anorexia nervosa, infantile pyknocytosis, hypothyroidism, idiopathic neonatal hepatitis, alcoholism, congestive splenomegaly, Zieve syndrome, and chronic granulomatous disease.\n\nSpur cells may refer synonymously to acanthocytes, or may refer in some sources to a specific subset of 'extreme acanthocytes' that have undergone splenic modification whereby additional cell membrane loss has blunted the spicules and the cells have become spherocytic ('spheroacanthocyte'), as seen in some patients with severe liver disease.\n\nAcanthocytosis can refer generally to the presence of this type of crenated red blood cell, such as may be found in severe cirrhosis or pancreatitis, but can refer specifically to abetalipoproteinemia, a clinical condition with acanthocytic red blood cells, neurologic problems and steatorrhea. This particular cause of acanthocytosis (also known as abetalipoproteinemia, apolipoprotein B deficiency, and Bassen-Kornzweig syndrome) is a rare, genetically inherited, autosomal recessive condition due to the inability to fully digest dietary fats in the intestines as a result of various mutations of the microsomal triglyceride transfer protein (MTTP) gene.\n\nAcanthocytes arise from either alterations in membrane lipids or structural proteins. Alterations in membrane lipids are seen in abetalipoproteinemia and liver dysfunction. Alteration in membrane structural proteins are seen in neuroacanthocytosis and McLeod syndrome.\n\nIn liver dysfunction, apolipoprotein A-II deficient lipoprotein accumulates in plasma causing increased cholesterol in RBCs. This causes abnormalities of membrane of RBC causing remodeling in spleen and formation of acanthocytes.\n\nIn abetalipoproteinemia, there is deficiency of lipids and vitamin E causing abnormal morphology of RBCs.\n\nAcanthocytosis can be seen in: \nacute or chronic anemia, hepatitis A, B, and C, hepatorenal syndrome, hypopituitarism, malabsorption syndromes, and malnutrition\nAcanthocytosis secondary to malnourishment, such as anorexia nervosa and cystic fibrosis, remits with resolution of the nutritional deficiency. Acanthocyte-like cells may be found in hypothyroidism, after splenectomy, and in myelodysplasia.\n\nAcanthocytes should be distinguished from echinocytes, which are also called 'burr cells', which although crenated are dissimilar in that they have multiple, small, projecting spiculations at regular intervals on the cell membrane. Burr cells usually imply uremia, but are seen in many conditions, including mild hemolysis in hypomagnesemia and hypophosphatemia, hemolytic anemia in long-distance runners, and pyruvate kinase deficiency. Burr cells can also arise in vitro due to elevated pH, blood storage, ATP depletion, calcium accumulation, and contact with glass. Acanthocytes should also be distinguished from keratocytes, also called 'horn cells' which have a few very large protuberances.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2126660", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126660", "title": "Poets of the Fall", "text": "Poets of the Fall\n\nPoets of the Fall (POTF) is a Finnish rock band from Helsinki. The group consists of Marko Saaresto (lead vocals), Olli Tukiainen (lead guitar), Markus \"Captain\" Kaarlonen (keyboards, production), Jani Snellman (bass), Jaska Mäkinen (rhythm guitar, backing vocals), and Jari Salminen (drums, percussion).\n\nThe band was founded on 25 April 2003 by Saaresto and Tukiainen. Tukiainen had written multiple songs for Saaresto's previous band \"Playground\" and performed with Finnish jazzband \"Pohjoinen Syke\" previously.\n\nIn 2003, Saaresto's friend Sami Järvi, a script-writer working at Remedy Entertainment handed Saaresto a poem he had written, asking him to turn it into a song to use in Remedy's video game \"\". The song, entitled \"Late Goodbye\", was used as the ending-theme of the game as well as a recurring motif, being sung and whistled by multiple characters. It was produced by Markus \"Captain\" Kaarlonen, who joined the band shortly after due to Saaresto and Tukiainen liking his work.\n\nKaarlonen being a former employee of benchmark-developer Futuremark, POTF were offered to have their song \"Lift\" included in the 2005-literation of Futuremark's benchmarking software 3DMark, which exposed the band to a wider audience than \"\" had done.\n\nIn order to keep complete control and freedom over the band, the members founded their own independent record label, Insomniac, on which they have released all their CDs as of 2014.\n\nOn 30 June 2004, the Poets released their debut single \"Late Goodbye\" in Finland which was followed by \"Lift\" on 9 September 2004. The songs charted No. 14 and No. 8 on the Finnish single charts and reached No. 2 and No. 7 in YleX's 2004-voting for \"Best Finnish song\". POTF were also voted \"Fresh Newcomer of 2004\" by YleX. The videos for both songs were directed by Tuomas \"Stobe\" Harju. POTF performed at Popkomm 2005 in Berlin.\n\nOn 18 December 2004, the Poets released a free download single on their website Maybe Tomorrow is a Better Day to market the release of their debut album \"Signs of Life\". After having been taken offline, it was remastered and reissued on the band's second album \"Carnival of Rust\".\n\nThe band's debut album \"Signs of Life\" was released in Finland on 19 January 2005, followed by iTunes on 25 May 2005. It entered the Finnish Top 40 album chart at number one and has been certified platinum by the Finnish IFPI. The album was awarded the Emma Award for the \"Best Debut Album of the Year 2005\" and the band received the \"Best Newcomer of the Year\"-Award.\n\nAccompanying the album, the band released a video for the song \"Lift\", directed by Tuomas \"Stobe\" Harju, and used the songs \"Stay\" and \"Illusion and Dream\" as promotional radio singles. The album contains a password granting access to a secret page on poetsofthefall.com that hosts a remix of the song \"Lift\", entitled \"Dramadance Remix\" as well as wallpapers made from the \"Lift\" video and the album artwork.\n\nThe title \"Signs of Life\" is a reference to the Pink Floyd-instrumental of the same name released in 1987.\n\nHaving won the \"Best Finnish Breakthrough\"-Award at the NRJ Radio Awards, POTF released their third single, entitled \"Carnival of Rust\" in Finland on 22 March 2006 with a release in Germany following on 1 December 2006. The single, which entered the Finnish charts at No. 2, features a radio- and an album-edit as well as a live-recording of \"Don't Mess With Me\", the fourth track on \"Signs of Life\", from the band's performance at Rockperry Festival, Vaasa, Finland on 15 July 2005.\n\nOn 30 March 2006, the band released the video to \"Carnival of Rust\" which shows a gas-masked woman visiting an old carnival, and also references every song from the band's second album of the same name, became hugely popular in Finland, winning two Muuvi Awards as well as the YLE Audience Choice Award as \"Best Finnish Music Video of All Time\". It was also voted \"Best Music Video 2006\" by The Voice. In 2009, the video was remastered by Elmeri Raitanen as his bachelor-thesis in visual and media arts at Lahti Institute of Design and reissued in high definition.\n\nThe Poets' second album \"Carnival of Rust\" was released in Finland on 12 April 2006 and has since been released in Sweden, Australia, Ukraine, Russia, Germany and on iTunes. It includes 11 new songs, a remastered version of \"Maybe Tomorrow is a Better Day\", as well as the music video to the title track. The cover, which sees the return of the lollipop from the first album, was designed by Tuomas Harju.\n\n\"Carnival of Rust\" also went straight to No. 1 on the Finnish charts. It has been certified platinum. It was selected as one of the best albums 2006 by Finland's largest newspaper, Helsingin Sanomat, and was nominated for \"Best Finnish Album\" at the NRJ Radio Awards as well as \"Best Rock Album\" at the Emma Awards in 2007.\n\nIn 2008, POTF redesigned their moth-logo and also changed the font used to display their band name. They also participated in the Voice's CD compilation \"Livenä Vieraissa\", with a cover version of Chris Cornell's song \"You Know My Name\", and their own song \"Diamonds for Tears\".\nIn the same year, POTF signed Phoenix Effect, the band of former Sunrise Avenue-guitarist Janne Kärkkäinen to their Insomniac-label and produced their debut album \"Cyanide Skies\" with Saaresto / Tukiainen performing additional vocals / guitar work. The album was released on 18 February 2009 in Finland and entered the Finnish album charts at No. 22. POTF also make a cameo-appearance in the video to Phoenix Effect's song \"King See No Evil\".\n\nPoets of the Fall released their next single called \"The Ultimate Fling\" in Finland on 6 February 2008. The single features three variations of the title track (a radio-edit, an album-edit and an impromptu-version) as well as a live recording of \"Fire\", the opening track of the band's second album \"Carnival of Rust\" which was recorded during the Poets' performance at Ankkarock Festival 2007 on 5 August. The single charted at No. 2 in the Finnish singles charts. Months after the release of the single, the band published the accompanying video which consists of fan-recorded footage of the band performing at various gigs.\n\nThe third POTF-album, entitled \"Revolution Roulette\", was released in Finland and on iTunes on 26 March 2008. Its cover was designed by Tuomas Harju and features a giant padlock with a built-in roulette, abandoning the lollipop used on the previous album-covers. The record marks the first POTF-album not produced in Markus Kaarlonen's living-room, but the band's own professional studio. It went straight to the top of the Finnish charts and was certified gold two weeks after being released. The band also released the title track of the album as a promotional radio-single. \"Revolution Roulette\" is currently the only POTF album that has not been released physically outside Finland. While on tour with the album, the band played their first gig in the United States at Musexpo 2008 in Los Angeles on 29 April 2008.\n\nOn 18 September 2009, the band released a \"Best of\"-compilation in India.\n\nIn mid-2009, after finishing the \"Revolution Roulette\"-tour, the band announced they would be heading into the studio to record their fourth album, the genre of which they described as \"cinematic rock\". On 9 December 2009, the band announced that a song entitled \"War\" from their fourth studio album would be featured in \"Alan Wake\", a psychological thriller video game developed by Remedy Entertainment. Along with \"War\", \"Alan Wake\" also features two new songs, \"Children of the Elder God\" and \"The Poet and The Muse\", which were written specifically for the game, and are performed by Poets of the Fall as the in-game band Old Gods of Asgard. In June, the band released a video for \"War\" (despite it being only a promotional single on radio) which reenacts scenes from the game in live-action. It features Finnish actor Ilkka Villi as the game's protagonist of the same name (Villi also served as the model used for the creation of the Alan Wake character) and the band, except Saaresto. The band portrays in the video some of \"Alan Wake\"'s in-game antagonists, lumberjacks possessed by an evil force named \"the Dark Presence\". The antagonists are collectively called \"the Taken\".\n\nOn 18 January, the band announced that their fourth album entitled \"Twilight Theater\" would be released on 17 March in Finland and that the first single from the album would be \"Dreaming Wide Awake\" which debuted on Radio NRJ Suomi on 21 January and was released on 3 February as a limited-edition single. It reached No. 18 on the Finnish single-charts.\n\n\"Twilight Theater\" was released in Finland and on iTunes on 17 March, followed by Germany, Austria and Switzerland on 29 October. It went straight to the top of the Finnish album charts and was certified gold a week after release.\n\nThe band released a double-vinyl edition of their debut album \"Signs of Life\" on 19 January 2011, exactly six years after its original release. A CD&DVD-compilation entitled \"Alchemy Vol.1\" was released on 16 March 2011. It contains the band's whole videography as well as the favourite songs of the band-members and also features two new songs, \"No End, No Beginning\" and \"Can You Hear Me\". The latter was released digitally on 2 February 2011 and is featured in the remake of Remedy Entertainment's video game \"Death Rally\". The video to the song was directed by Mikko Harma and premiered on The Voice on 18 March 2011.\n\nA fifth studio album, \"Temple of Thought\", was released on 21 March 2012 to conform to the release-cycle of two years set by the previous albums. Its name and album cover were revealed on the band's official Facebook page on 25 January 2012. Temple of Thought debuted at #3 on the Finnish charts.\n\nThe first single of the new album, \"Cradled in Love\", was released for Finnish radio airplay on 24 January 2012. On 26 January it was released for digital download on the band's official digistore. The band released the music video for the song \"Cradled in Love\" on 3 March 2012. \"The Happy Song\", an original song written for \"Alan Wake's American Nightmare\", also appeared on the album. A 45-second snippet of the German radio edit of \"Kamikaze Love\" was uploaded by Remote Music, an independent German record label, on 24 February 2012. The single was released in Germany on 13 April 2012. A special edition of album was released in Germany and internationally (digital-only) on 20 July 2012. It includes three bonus titles.\nThe Temple of Thought Tour included locations in Finland, Russia, Germany, Romania and India.\n\nIn March 2013, the band announced that they would film their show in Moscow on 23 March, during their 10th Anniversary Tour. They launched a campaign collaborating with PledgeMusic. In April they produced a track called Yö (\"night\") for the Finnish singer-songwriter Ima. On 13 September 2013 the band released their first live performance DVD titled \"Live in Moscow\".\n\nOn 19 December 2013, the band announced they had begun working on their upcoming sixth studio album. On 26 May 2014, they announced a short break from making their new album due to their schedule on the Studio Breakout Mini-tour, including stops in Finland and Russia. On 8 July 2014 the band announced that their sixth studio album \"Jealous Gods\" would be released on 19 September on iTunes and Spotify, along with other digital music retailers, streaming services and selected record stores. The album's first single, \"Daze\", was released on 22 August on their official website along with its music video. Additionally, prior to the album's release, and as a countdown to the new single and video, each Friday, starting from 11 July with \"Signs of Life\", the band released each of their albums on Spotify in chronological order. In October 2014, the band began the \"Jealous Gods Tour\" in Finland and Germany.\n\nOn 11 June 2015, the band announced that they had begun working on their seventh studio album. In January 2016, they announced they would be working with Kent producer Stefan Boman on the album. On 26 May 2016, the band announced that their seventh album would be titled \"Clearview\", to be released on and is to be followed by an extensive world tour. On 4 August 2016, the album's first single, \"Drama for Life\", was released. Clearview was released on , co-inciding with the start of the Clearview tour in Helsinki.\n\nOn 11 March 2018, the band announced that their eighth album will be released in October 2018. On the 5th of October 2018, Poets released their eighth album Ultraviolet, which once again hit the #1 position on the Finnish album chart. Two singles, False Kings and Dancing on Broken Glass, were released prior to the album. Currently the band is recording material for various new projects, as well as playing around the world with the Ultraviolet Tour. In 2019 a single from the album, My Dark Disquiet, was featured in the video game \"Control\".\n\n\"*\" = refers only to the song, not b-sides etc. featured on the single\n\n"}
{"id": "2126664", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126664", "title": "Kent Tekulve", "text": "Kent Tekulve\n\nKenton Charles \"Teke\" Tekulve (born March 5, 1947), is an American former professional baseball right-handed relief pitcher, who played 16 seasons in Major League Baseball (MLB), primarily for the Pittsburgh Pirates. He also played for the Philadelphia Phillies and Cincinnati Reds. Pitching with an unusual submarine delivery, Tekulve was known as a workhorse relief pitcher who holds several records for number of games pitched and innings pitched.\n\nTekulve is a 1969 graduate of Marietta College in Ohio. He signed that year as a free agent with the Pittsburgh Pirates and remained with that organization until 1985. He made his major league debut against the Montreal Expos on May 20, 1974. He pitched an inning of relief and allowed one hit in the 4–2 loss.\n\nHis best seasons came in and , in both of which he saved 31 games and posted ERAs of 2.33 and 2.75, respectively. He saved three games in the 1979 World Series including the winner, as his Pirates defeated the Baltimore Orioles 4–3. He was selected an All-Star in 1980.\n\nEarly in the 1985 season, Tekulve was traded to the Philadelphia Phillies for Al Holland and a minor leaguer, Frankie Griffin. He continued to be an effective reliever into his 40s. Only in his first season (1974) and his last season (1989) did he post an ERA above 4. While with the Phillies, he led the NL in games pitched for the fourth time, with 90 in 1987 at the age of 40.\n\nTekulve signed with the Cincinnati Reds before the 1989 season and pitched in 37 games before retiring in July.\n\nTekulve led the major leagues in games pitched four times, appearing in 90 or more games three times. He and Mike Marshall are the only pitchers in baseball history to appear in 90 or more games more than once having each done the feat three times. Tekulve is also the oldest pitcher ever to appear in 90 games, when he did so in 1987 at age 40. Tekulve's three saves in the 1979 World Series tied the single-Series mark set by Roy Face in the 1960 World Series; it was broken by John Wetteland in 1996. He holds the National League record for career innings pitched in relief (1,436⅔), and formerly held the major league record for career relief appearances; his 1,050 career games, all in relief, ranked second in major league history to Hoyt Wilhelm's 1,070 when he retired. Tekulve owns the career records for most appearances and innings pitched without making a single start. In he broke Roy Face's NL record of 846 career games pitched; he held the record until John Franco passed him in . In August of , he pitched on nine consecutive days, a record for pitchers.\n\nTekulve holds the record for most career losses without having given up any earned runs, with 12, as well as the record for most intentional walks issued, with 179.\n\nTekulve appeared in a 1983 episode of \"Mister Rogers' Neighborhood\" to explain how people play baseball.\n\nTekulve was a member of the Philadelphia Phillies television broadcast team from 1991 to 1997.\n\nAfter several years involvement with the Washington Wild Things of the independent Frontier League, Tekulve took a job as the Pittsburgh Pirates' advance scout in 2006.\n\nTekulve recently worked for AT&T SportsNet Pittsburgh (formerly FSN Pittsburgh and later Root Sports Pittsburgh) and appeared as an analyst after each Pittsburgh Pirates game from 2008 to 2017. However, in the early to mid part of the 2014 Pirates season, he took a hiatus for personal reasons. Filling in for him in his absence, former Pirates, Expos, and Blue Jays player and former Oakland Athletics manager Ken Macha.\n\nTekulve underwent successful heart transplantation surgery on September 5, 2014, after spending eight months on the transplant list. The surgery was performed at Allegheny General Hospital.\n\nTekulve threw out the ceremonial first pitch at the National League Wild Card Game between the Pittsburgh Pirates and the San Francisco Giants on October 1, 2014.\n\nTekulve announced his retirement from broadcasting on September 5, 2017, after the Pirates' 4-3 win over the visiting Chicago Cubs.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2126676", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126676", "title": "Karel Havlíček Borovský", "text": "Karel Havlíček Borovský\n\nKarel Havlíček Borovský (; Borová, today \"Havlíčkova Borová;\" 31 October 1821 – 29 July 1856) was a Czech writer, poet, critic, politician, journalist, and publisher.\n\nHe lived and studied at the Gymnasium in Německý Brod (today Havlíčkův Brod is named after Borovský), and his house on the main square is today the Havlíček Museum. In 1838 he moved to Prague to study philosophy at Charles University and, influenced by the revolutionary atmosphere before the Revolutions of 1848, decided on the objective of becoming a patriotic writer. He devoted himself to studying Czech and literature. After graduating he began studying theology because he thought the best way to serve the nation would be as a priest. He was expelled after one year for \"showing too little indication for spiritual ministry\".\n\nAfter failing to find a teacher's job in Bohemia, he left for Moscow to work as a tutor in a Russian teacher's family: with a recommendation by Pavel Josef Šafařík. He became a Russophile and a Pan-Slav, but after recognizing the true reality of the Russian society he took the pessimistic view that \"Pan-Slavism is a great, attractive but feckless idea\". His memories of the Russian stay were published first in magazines and then as a book \"Obrazy z Rus\" (\"Pictures from Russia\").\n\nHe returned to Bohemia in 1844, aged 24 and used his writing skills to criticize the fashion of embracing anything written in the recently reborn Czech language. He specifically aimed at a novel by Josef Kajetán Tyl. In 1846 Havlíček attained a position as editor of the \"Pražské noviny\" newspaper with the help of František Palacký.\n\nIn April 1848 he changed the name of the newspaper to \"Národní noviny\" (\"National News\") and it became one of the first newspapers of the Revolutionary-era Czech liberals, and one of the most influential publications of 1848-1849. \"Národní noviny\" became popular especially for his sharp-tongued epigrams and its wit. Havlíček was concerned with the preparations of the Congress of the Slavs in Prague. In July 1848 he was elected as a member of the Austrian Empire Constituent Assembly in Vienna and later in Kroměříž. He eventually relinquished his seat to focus on journalism.\n\nHavlíček was a \"liberal nationalist\" politically, but refused to allow a \"party line\" to inform his opinions. Often, he would criticize those that agreed with him as much as those that disagreed. He excoriated revolutionaries for their radicalism, but also advocated ideas like universal suffrage-a concept altogether too radical for most of his fellow liberals. He was a pragmatist, and had little patience for those that spent their time romanticizing the Czech nationality without helping it achieve political or cultural independence. He used much of the space in his newspapers to educate the people on important issues-stressing areas like economics, which were sorely neglected by other nationalist writers.\n\nThe Bohemian revolution was defeated in March 1849 with the dissolution of the Kroměříž assembly, but Havlíček continued to criticize the new regime. He was brought to court for his criticism (there was no freedom of the press in the Habsburg's territory) but was found not guilty by a sympathetic jury. \"Národní noviny\" had to cease publication in January 1850, but Havlíček did not end his activities. In May 1850 he began publishing the magazine \"Slovan\" in Kutná Hora. The magazine was a target of censorship from the start. It had to stop publication in August 1851, and Havlíček stood again at the court to answer on charges of dissent. Again, he was found not guilty by a sympathetic jury of Czech commoners.\n\nHavlíček translated and introduced some satirical and critical authors into the Czech language culture including Nikolai Gogol (1842) and Voltaire (1851).\n\nIn the night of December 16, 1851, he was arrested by the police and forced into exile in Brixen, Austria (present-day Italy). He was depressed from the exile, but continued writing and wrote some of his best work: Tyrolské elegie (Tirol Laments), Křest svatého Vladimíra (Baptism of St. Vladimir) and Král Lávra (King Lavra, based on the legend of Labraid Loingsech).\n\nWhen he returned from Brixen in 1855, he learned that his wife had died a few days earlier. Most of his former friends, afraid of the Bach system, stood aloof from him. Only a few publicly declared support for him.\n\nIn 1856, Havlíček died of tuberculosis, aged 35. Božena Němcová put a crown of thorns on his head in the coffin. His funeral was attended by about 5,000 Czechs.\n\nIn 1911, a monument was raised to Havlicek in Chicago by Czech residents of the city in Douglas Park. The bronze statue by Joseph Strachovsky was cast by V. Mašek in Prague and shows Havlicek in a revolutionary pose, dressed in a full military uniform and a draped cape with his outstretched arm motioning the viewer to join him. The statue was moved to Solidarity Drive on today's Museum Campus in the vicinity of the Adler Planetarium in 1981.\n\nIn the year 1918 was new Rifle Regiment of the 3rd division of Czechoslovak legions in Russia named \"regiment of Karel Havlíček Borovský\"\n\nIn 1925 a biographical film was released.\n\nIn 1945, the 20 Czechoslovak koruna banknote bore Havlicek's portrait.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2126682", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126682", "title": "Hesperia comma", "text": "Hesperia comma\n\nHesperia comma, the silver-spotted skipper, is a butterfly of the family Hesperiidae. It is also known as the common branded skipper or Holarctic grass skipper in North America, where the butterfly \"Epargyreus clarus\", a spread-winged skipper, also has the common name of \"silver-spotted skipper\".\n\nOften confused with the large skipper \"Ochlodes venata\", this species is easily distinguished by the numerous white spots on the underside hindwings, and the tips of the upper forewings tend to be darker than those of the large skipper. Also their flight periods rarely overlap; in Britain the large skipper has all but finished when the silver-spotted takes to the wing in August. The silver-spotted skipper prefers warm calcareous sites and has a wide distribution as far south as North Africa, northwards throughout Europe to the Arctic and eastwards across Asia to China and Japan. It also has subspecies in North America. In the UK it is rare and restricted to chalk downlands of southern England.\n\n\nFemales lay single eggs during August and September on the leaf blades of sheep's fescue \"Festuca ovina\", the only foodplant, and occasionally on nearby plants. The females are very fussy where they lay; most eggs in the UK are laid in short turf, up to 4 cm, and often next to patches of bare ground. This species overwinters as an egg and hatches in March. Like other skippers the larvae construct small tent-like structures from leaf blades and silk from which to feed. They enter the pupal stage after 14 to 15 weeks at the base of the foodplant. Pupation takes 10 to 14 days, and as with most butterflies the males emerge first.\n\nConcerted conservation efforts in the UK, backed by government agencies, have seen this once-threatened species thriving in certain areas. Numbers have increased by some 1500% over the last twenty years; the number of sites has increased from just 68, with 202 new sites established. Conservation schemes have focussed on providing the silver-spotted skipper with suitable habitats, with positive results.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2126683", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126683", "title": "Wat Benchamabophit", "text": "Wat Benchamabophit\n\nWat Benchamabophit Dusitvanaram (; ) is a Buddhist temple (wat) in the Dusit District of Bangkok, Thailand. Also known as the marble temple, it is one of Bangkok's best-known temples and a major tourist attraction. It typifies Bangkok's ornate style of high gables, stepped-out roofs and elaborate finials.\n\nConstruction of the temple began in 1899 at the request of King Chulalongkorn after building his palace nearby. The temple's name literally means 'the Temple of the fifth King located near Dusit Palace'. It was designed by Prince Naris, a half-brother of the king, and is built of Italian marble. It has display of Carrara marble pillars, a marble courtyard and two large \"singhas\" (lions) guarding the entrance to the bot. The interiors are decorated with crossbeams of lacquer and gold, and in shallow niches in the walls of paintings of important \"stupas\" all over the country. The cloister around the assembly hall houses 52 images of Buddha.\n\nInside the ordination hall (ubosot) is a Sukhothai-style Buddha statue named \"Phra Buddhajinaraja\", cast in 1920 after the original in Wat Mahathat in Phitsanulok. The main Buddha image is a copy of Phra Buddha Chinarat that resides in Phitsanulok in northern Thailand. The ashes of King Chulalongkorn are buried beneath the statue. In the gallery surrounding the ordination hall are 52 Buddha statues each showing different \"mudras\" (signs), collected by Prince Damrong Rajanubhab for his king. The temple was featured in the famous The Amazing Race 9 as the 10th and final elimination pit-stop. The image of the temple's façade is visible on the reverse side of the Five-Baht coin of the Thai currency. The site contains the Benchamabophit National Museum.\n\nMerit makers come to the monks of the temple for getting alms every morning. Between 06:00–07:30 in the morning, monks line up on Nakhon Pathom with their bowls to receive donations of curry, rice, lotus buds, incense, toiletries and other essentials. The evening candlelight procession around the bot during the Buddhist festivals of Magha Puja (in February) and Visakha Puja (in May) are common at this temple.\n\nIn 2005, the temple was submitted to UNESCO for consideration as a future World Heritage Site.\n\nThis temple is sometimes used as part of a Gem scam in Bangkok. The scam involves tourists buying fake gem stones. This temple is part of the free tour offered to potential victims.\n\n"}
{"id": "2126693", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126693", "title": "Dixie-Narco", "text": "Dixie-Narco\n\nDixie-Narco is a major manufacturer of soda vending machines located in Williston, South Carolina. Their main competitors are Royal Vendors and Vendo.\n\nFounded in Ranson, West Virginia, the company's production facilities were relocated to Williston in 1989. Formerly a subsidiary of Maytag, it is now a subsidiary of Crane Co., who also owns the Crane National, Glasco Polyvend Lektrovend (GPL), and Automatic Products (APi) brands.\n\nAlong with Vendo, Dixie-Narco is currently one of the main providers of vending machines for PepsiCo, particularly in the eastern United States. Dixie-Narco is also a major provider of vending machines for Dr Pepper Snapple Group and a secondary provider of vending machines for The Coca-Cola Company.\n\nThe company was an early adopter of employee-suggestion-driven cost savings, soliciting suggestions based on the Rucker \"share of production\" plan in the early 1960's that helped drive down manufacturing costs.\n\nIn 1991, Dixie-Narco was involved in a legal dispute with Donald Trump before a Federal Bankruptcy Court related to Trump's Taj Mahal Casino. Dixie-Narco claimed that they were owed payment by Trump for 1,350 bill-changing machines they had supplied the casino with, and that the bond-holder approval necessary for Trump's Chapter 11 filing had been improperly solicited as Trump had told them that Dixie-Narco's claim for $6 million of the machines was \"worthless\". Trump also asserted that the machines had often broken down. The claim was settled with an offer of $2.4 million to be paid in increasing installments to Dixie-Narco, as well as the Taj Mahal returning 500 of the machines, in return for which Dixie-Narco withdrew their objection to Trump's Chapter 11 debt restructuring. \n\n\n\nDixie Narco named their stack vendors by how many cans it would hold and a suffix denoting the series (no suffix meant an earlier single price machine), for example a 501E is an E-series vendor that had a capacity of 501 cans.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2126703", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126703", "title": "River Glen", "text": "River Glen\n\nA river glen is a glen with a river in it, a river valley.\n\nThere are at least five rivers called Glen:\n\n"}
{"id": "2126717", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126717", "title": "Victor Kilian", "text": "Victor Kilian\n\nVictor Arthur Kilian (March 6, 1891 – March 11, 1979) was an American actor who was blacklisted by the Hollywood movie studio bosses in the 1950s.\n\nBorn in Jersey City, New Jersey, Victor Kilian began his career in entertainment at the age of 18 by joining a vaudeville company. In the mid-1920s, he began to perform in Broadway plays and by the end of the decade had made his debut in motion pictures. For the next two decades, he made a good living as a character actor in secondary or minor roles in films such as \"The Adventures of Tom Sawyer\" (1938). He was frequently cast as a villain. While staging a fight scene with John Wayne for a 1942 film, Kilian suffered a serious injury that resulted in the loss of one eye.\n\nHe was an early resident of Free Acres, a social experimental community developed by Bolton Hall in Berkeley Heights, New Jersey.\n\nDuring the McCarthyism of the 1950s, Kilian was blacklisted for his political beliefs, but because the Actors' Equity Association refused to go along with the ban, Kilian was able to earn a living by returning to perform on stage. After Hollywood's blacklisting ended, he began doing guest roles on television series during the 1970s. He is best known for his role as Grandpa Larkin (aka The Fernwood Flasher) in the television soap opera spoof \"Mary Hartman, Mary Hartman\" (1976). Kilian's wife, Daisy Johnson, to whom he had been married for 46 years, died in 1961.\n\nIn 1979, Kilian appeared in an episode of \"All in the Family\", \"The Return of Stephanie's Father\", portraying a desk clerk in a seedy hotel. In the same episode, fellow veteran Hollywood character actor Charles Wagenheim (1896-1979) appeared as a bum in the hotel’s lobby. Just weeks before the episode aired, on March 6, 1979 (Kilian’s birthday), the 83 year-old Wagenheim was bludgeoned to death in his Hollywood apartment after he was surprised coming home from grocery shopping during an act of robbery. Five days later, on March 11, 1979, Kilian, who lived alone in Hollywood just blocks from Wagenheim, also was beaten to death by burglars in his apartment.\n\nOn March 20, 1979, \"All in the Family\" posthumously aired the episode \"The Return of Stephanie's Father\", with Wagenheim’s and Kilian’s last screen performances. Victor Kilian's cremated remains were scattered in the rose garden at Westwood Village Memorial Park Cemetery.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2126720", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126720", "title": "Ottakring", "text": "Ottakring\n\nOttakring () is the 16th District in the city of Vienna, Austria (). It is located west of the central districts, north of Penzing and south of Hernals. Ottakring has some heavily populated urban areas with many residential buildings. It was formed from the independent villages of Ottakring and Neulerchenfeld in 1892.\n\nThe district of Ottakring is located in the western part of Vienna between the \"Gürtel\" (a substantial road around Vienna) and the hills of the Wienerwald (Vienna forest). The district of Hernals borders to the north, Josefstadt and Neubau to the east, and Rudolfsheim-Fünfhaus and Penzing to the south. The highest points in the district are the Gallitzinberg (449 m), also known as Wilheminenberg because a palace (Schloss Wilheminenberg) is situated on its slope.\n\nThe buildings vary considerably in style. The working class settled around the industries and factories near the \"Gürtel\", resulting in a dense checkerboard pattern of residential housing. A little further up is a collection of villas around the Ottakring cemetery surrounded by an extensive number of deciduous trees.\n\nThe district is made up of 36.7% green space (of which 22% is forest), 45.4% buildings, and 17.9% transportation. Thaliastraße is the busiest and most commercially important street in the district. A total of 1.23% of the land area is used for agriculture. The once important vineyards have mostly disappeared. Gardens are found primarily around castle Wilhelminenberg and towards the border to Penzing.\n\nThe original Ottakring was founded about 1,000 years ago by Bavarian settlers who cleared a small patch of forest on the cityward slope of the Gallitzinberg. (The exact date is not known because, as with most other places in the area, no document has survived.) It was situated where the Ottakring Cemetery is today, straddling a creek (the \"Ottakringer Bach\") which now has completely disappeared from view, forming part of Vienna's drainage systems. Originally the Ottakringer Bach flowed along what today are the streets of Ottakringer Straße, Abelegasse, and Thaliastraße; through Lerchenfelderstraße and the Minoritenplatz; and into the Donaukanal, an arm of the Danube river. The \"oldest Ottakring\" settlement was completely destroyed in 1683 during the Battle of Vienna. The village was rebuilt further downstream on the Ottakringer Bach, closer to Vienna. This nucleus, parts of which survived into the 1980s, was what became known as \"Alt-Ottakring\" in the 19th and 20th century.\n\nIn 1888, emperor Franz Joseph I declared that he wanted to unite Vienna with the surrounding villages. The Lower Austrian government passed a law, the \"Eingemeindung der Vororten zu Wien\" (Annexation of Villages to Vienna) in 1890. On 1 January 1892 the resolution took effect. Despite initial resistance, the independent villages of Ottakring and Neulerchenfeld were merged into the 16th district of Vienna, which had 106,861 residents.\n\nAfter annexation, the area experienced rapid growth. By 1910, 177,687 people lived in Ottakring. Though the number of employment opportunities was limited, the number of workers was extremely high. This encouraged industries to move to the area.\n\nAfter World War I, residential construction boomed. Between 1922 and 1934, 28 \"Gemeindebauanlagen\" (community housing projects/municipal apartment complexes) with more than 4,517 apartments were constructed. Among this number were the 1,587 apartments of the \"Sandleitenhof\", which was the largest apartment complex in Vienna to date. The economic collapse of the 1930s brought great adversity to the district with unemployment surging to over 50%. The brief Austrian Civil War of 1934 brought major instability and fighting to the region. The local insurgency overpowered the army of the original Social Democratic Party, and the residential buildings escaped mostly unharmed. There was however heavy fighting around the workers' housing in the \"Kreitnergasse\" Street.\n\nDuring World War II, air defence of Vienna and some southeastern parts of the Third Reich territory were coordinated from the Gaugefechtsstand Wien, situated at the Gallitzinberg.\n\nAfter the war, Ottakring belonged to the French-occupied zone of Vienna (which was divided into quarters and split among the Allies). The efforts to rebuild the area were slow at first and eventually even the oldest parts of the district were finally renovated. The French replaced the \"Negerdörfel\" barracks and construction continued.\n\nExtension of the subway line U3 into Ottakring in 1998 brought neighborhood revitalization to the areas surrounding the new subway station. The above-ground station marked the end of the U3 line, and earned the name \"Schwesternturm\" (literally Sisters Tower, but originates from the German \"Krankenschwester\", nurse) due to the secondary use of this residential building as a lodging for nurses. The empty factories of an old tobacco company and the long-unused stores beneath the arches for the Schnellbahn (fast local trains) were converted into a technical school (\"HTL\", Höhere Technische Lehranstalt). The centre of Vienna can be reached in 13 minutes via the subway.\n\nAccording to Statistics Austria, the current population growth in Ottakring is almost exclusively driven by migration from beyond Austria's borders. Of the 93,000 people estimated to live in Ottakring in 2007, 26 percent do not hold Austrian citizenship, and significant parts of this demographic stratum are poorly integrated into Austrian society. Approximately 12,000 residents originate from Serbia or the former Yugoslavia, and more than 4,000 from Turkey. They tend to concentrate in the old, densely populated, and sometimes desolate inner-city parts of the district, while the western parts of Ottakring are suburban in character, almost exclusively Austrian, and relatively affluent. Vienna's demographic statisticians predict an exacerbation of this division, making ghettoization an increasing concern.\n\nThe \"Balkan Mile\" (Also known as \"Balkanstrasse\") is a neighborhood sitting on the border of the 17th and 16th districts of Vienna, centered along the major street Ottakringer Straße. It has a high concentration of Yugoslavian cafes, restaurants and nightclubs, where the Serbian language is mainly spoken, and Turbo Folk music is played. This stretch of the Ottakringer Straße is commonly referred to as the \"Balkan Mile\" (\"Balkanmeile\"), and represents a Yugoslav/Serbian enclave in Vienna.\n\nThe directorship was elected by a common vote until 1918. After that, the Social Democrats designated the district as a worker's district. On 4 May 1919 the Social Democrats gained the great majority of the vote and voted the railroader Johann Politzer to be District Director. He held the position until 1934, when the Patriotic Front party took power in Austria. After the fall of the Nazis in November 1945, the people were able to freely vote for the first time in 10 years. Of the 30 government positions, the SPÖ won 20 seats, ÖVP won 8, and KPÖ won 2. The SPÖ held their dominance for decades, until the start of the 1990s. In 1996, the FPÖ gained a lot of popularity at the expense of the SPÖ, with the SPÖ falling from 50.54% to 40.58%, and the FPÖ gaining 30.59%. The trend reversed itself in 2001, when the SPÖ rose back up to 49.45% and the FPÖ fell down to 20.86%. The Greens took 12.54% in 2001, putting them at almost the same level as the ÖVP, which took 13.13%. The Liberal Forum lost almost half of their support and with 2.47% took only one seat representation.\n\nThe left half of the coat of arms stands for the once-independent town of Ottakring. The 3 green hills symbolise the three important features of Ottakring: Jubiläumswarte, Gallitzinberg and Predigtstuhl. The cross-shield and mitre hat stand for the former monastery in Klosterneuburg.\n\nThe right half of the coat of arms illustrates the origin of the name of \"Neulerchenfeld\". A larch tree (German: \"Lärche\") with circling larks (German: \"Lerche\") sits in a field (German: \"Feld\"), giving the name \"Neulerchenfeld\" (\"new-larks-field\").\n\nIndustries settled quickly in the district after it was incorporated into Vienna. In 1898 a tobacco factory opened on Thaliastraße (Thalia Street). Other notable new companies in Ottakring included photographic industries, such as Herlango, and factories producing industrial machinery, such as Österreichische Industriewerke Warchalowski, and Eißler & Co. AG. The textile industry was largest employer. Following World War II, many of the industries relocated to other areas, creating marked disparities between residential neighborhoods and areas with abandoned factories. The best known companies still operating in Ottakring are the Ottakring Brewery and the coffee roaster Julius Meinl.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2126724", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126724", "title": "Laurie Auchterlonie", "text": "Laurie Auchterlonie\n\nLawrence \"Laurie\" Auchterlonie (8 December 1867 – 20 January 1948) was a Scottish professional golfer, a native of St Andrews. In 1902, representing the Glen View Club, he won the eighth U.S. Open at Garden City Golf Club in Garden City, New York.\n\nBorn in St Andrews, Scotland, Auchterlonie was the older brother of Willie Auchterlonie, who won The Open Championship in 1893. Willie had a son named Laurie, who succeeded his father as honorary professional to the Royal & Ancient Golf Club of St Andrews. This Laurie Auchterlonie should not be confused with his uncle, the U.S. Open winner.\n\nAuchterlonie was over 30 before he became a professional. As an amateur he played in the Open Championship when it was played at St Andrews, in 1888, 1891 and 1895. He entered the Amateur Championship for the first time in 1895, when it was held at St Andrews. He reached the semi-finals, losing at the 19th hole to Leslie Balfour-Melville. He entered again in 1897 at Muirfield and 1898 at Royal Liverpool Golf Club. He won the Dundee Evening Telegraph Cup, the unofficial Scottish Amateur Championship, in 1897 at Leven, Fife, beating David Leitch by 2 holes in the final.\n\nAuchterlonie's win at the U.S. Open in October 1902 marked the first time that 80 was broken in all four rounds, as he posted a score of 78-78-74-77=307. (The U.S. Open became a 72-hole event four years earlier, in 1898.) He played with the recently invented Haskell rubber-cored golf ball, which was at least partly responsible for the lower scoring. The new ball had first been used to win an important tournament the previous year, when it was used by Walter Travis at the U.S. Amateur and Sandy Herd at The Open Championship in June. It soon became the standard golf ball.\n\nAuchterlonie competed in the U.S. Open eleven times, with seven top-ten finishes. His other victories included the 1901 Western Open. From 1901 to 1911, he was the head golf professional at Glen View Club in Golf, Illinois, a northwest suburb of Chicago; he returned to his native Scotland in 1911.\n\nAucterlonie died in 1948 at age 80 in St Andrews, Scotland. He is best remembered for winning the 1902 U.S. Open.\n\n\"Note: Auchterlonie only played in the Open Championship, the Amateur Championship, and the U.S. Open.\"<br>\n\nNYF = Tournament not yet founded<br>\n\"T\" indicates a tie for a place<br>\nR256, R128, R64, R32, R16, QF, SF = Round in which player lost in match play\n\n"}
{"id": "2126727", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126727", "title": "André Turcat", "text": "André Turcat\n\nMajor André Édouard Turcat (23 October 1921 – 4 January 2016) was a French Air Force pilot and test pilot celebrated for flying the first prototype of Concorde for its maiden flight.\n\nTurcat was born on 23 October 1921 in Marseille (Bouches-du-Rhône) into a family in the automotive industry. He studied at Ecole Polytechnique.\n\nAfter graduating from École Polytechnique in 1942, Turcat joined the Free French Air Forces during the final years of World War II and stayed with Armée de l'Air after the war. During the Indochina War, Turcat served as a pilot of C-47 transport aircraft and demonstrated exceptional skills in handling a number of flight emergencies, thus earning an assignment to EPNER, France's test pilot school.\n\nShortly after graduating, Turcat took over the test campaign of the Nord 1500 Griffon, one of the world's first ramjet-powered aircraft. During this successful program, Turcat flew the Griffon at Mach 2.19, a feat that earned him the prestigious Harmon Trophy in 1958. A few months later (25 February 1959), Turcat broke the world speed record over 100 kilometers with the Griffon, at an average 1,643 km/h (1,021 mph).\n\nTurcat left the military after the Griffon program ended and joined state-owned aircraft manufacturer Sud Aviation as the Concorde supersonic transport (SST) program was starting. He became Concorde's chief test pilot and Sud Aviation's director of flight testing. On 2 March 1969, Turcat had the honour of flying the first prototype of Concorde for its maiden flight. Later that year (1 October), he was also at the controls for Concorde's first supersonic flight. Turcat conducted the rest of the French side of the Concorde test program (Brian Trubshaw being the chief test pilot on the British side), and retired from active flying duty in the late 1970s. Both Turcat and Trubshaw were awarded the Ivan C. Kincheloe Award for their work on the Concorde test programme.\n\nHe was the founder and first president for the Académie nationale de l'air et de l'espace (ANAE) in 1983. The Academy is known as Académie de l'Air et de l'Espace since 2007. He was present on board the Air France Concorde (F-BVFC) during its retirement flight, on 27 June 2003, to the Airbus plant at Toulouse, where the French aircraft was built . He was an author and wrote several books. Among the latest are \"Concorde essais et batailles\" (1977) and \"Pilote d'essais: Mémoires\" (2005), both in French.\n\nIn 1998, Turcat was inducted into the International Air & Space Hall of Fame at the San Diego Air & Space Museum.\n"}
{"id": "2126739", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126739", "title": "Tabi'un", "text": "Tabi'un\n\nThe tābi‘ūn (, also accusative or genitive tābi‘īn , singular \"tābi‘\" ), \"followers\" or \"successors\", are the generation of Muslims who followed the Companions of the Prophet Muhammad (\"ṣaḥābah\"), and thus received their teachings secondhand. A \"tābi‘\" knew at least one \"ṣaḥābiyy\". As such, they played an important part in the development of Islamic thought and philosophy, and in the political development of the early caliphate.\n\nThe next generation of Muslims after the \"tabi‘ūn\" are called the \"tābi‘ al-tabi‘īn\" . The first three generations of Muhammad’s followers make up the \"salaf\" of Islam.\n\nMuslims from the Sunni branch of Islam define a \"tābiʻ\" as a Muslim who:\n\nSunni Muslims also regard the tābiʻūn as the best generation after the Companions. According to Sunni Muslims, Muhammad said: \"The best people are those living in my generation, then those coming after them, and then those coming after (the second generation)\"\n\nThe tābiʻūn are divided by most Muslim scholars into three classes: \n\nThe first tābiʻ to die was Zayd ibn Ma'mar ibn Zayd, 30 years after the hijra, and the last to die was Khalaf ibn Khalifa, who died in 180 AH. Alternatively, since the status of Khalaf ibn Khalifa as a tābiʻ is strongly challenged by reputed scholars, the last to die from amongst them may have been Jarir bin Haazim in 170 AH. Therefore, many of the tābiʻūn were tasked with the preservation of Islamic traditions from the era of the Companions to later Muslims.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2126744", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126744", "title": "AGM-63", "text": "AGM-63\n\nThe AGM-63 was a missile design produced by the United States. It was conceived in March 1962 when the U.S. Navy issued two requirements for long-range Anti-Radiation Missiles (ARMs) to complement the short-range AGM-45 Shrike. The first was to operate over ranges of up to 50 nm (90 km), while the second would be capable of operating out to 100 nm (180 km). Development of the ARM I was approved in 1963; the missile was given the designation ZAGM-63A. However no funds were made available as other ARM programs such as the improved AGM-45 Shrike, and the development of the AGM-78 Standard ARM and AGM-88 HARM were given a higher priority.\n\nThe AGM-63 continued on for several years as a purely theoretical missile. No design or configuration was ever settled on, and the project was cancelled in the late 1960s.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2126747", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126747", "title": "Druid Hills Historic District (Atlanta, Georgia)", "text": "Druid Hills Historic District (Atlanta, Georgia)\n\nDruid Hills Historic District is a historic district in Druid Hills (partly a neighborhood of Atlanta and partly unincorporated), designed by Frederick Law Olmsted and later by his sons, the Olmsted Brothers. Druid Hills was Atlanta's second major suburb, after Inman Park, and as one of Olmsted's major works, had a significant influence on future suburban development.\n\nOlmsted's 1893 plan for developer Joel Hurt's Kirkwood Land Company was organized around Ponce de Leon Avenue, a broad parkway on either side of a series of parks. Work did not begin until 1905, and in 1908 the development company was sold to Asa Candler, president of the Coca Cola Company and future mayor of Atlanta, who built a mansion at 1428 Ponce de Leon Avenue. Completed in 1936, the development features large mansions on either side of the central parkway overlooking the parks, designed by such architects as Henry Hornbostel, Neel Reid, Walter T. Downing and Arthur Neal Robinson.\n\nThe Druid Hills Historic District was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1979. It incorporates the earlier Druid Hills Parks and Parkways Historic District that was listed on the National Register in 1975.\n\nThe Druid Hills Parks and Parkways district included Colonial Revival, Tudor Revival, Italian Renaissance Revival architecture in buildings along both sides of Ponce de Leon Avenue between Briarcliff Road and the Seaboard Coast Line RR tracks. This was a area that included a total of eight contributing buildings and one other contributing structure. The 1979 expanded listing included an area of including Late 19th and 20th Century Revivals, Classical Revival, and Bungalow/Craftsman architecture.\n\n"}
{"id": "2126757", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126757", "title": "Allen, Northern Samar", "text": "Allen, Northern Samar\n\n', officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nIt is located on the northwestern tip of the province, bordering the municipality of Victoria to the south, the municipality of Lavezares to the east, and the strategic San Bernardino Strait to both the north and west.\n\nAllen is known for being an important port for inter-island transport, specifically between the island of Samar and the island of Luzon.\n\nBefore the Spanish colonisation of the Philippines, the original Malayan name of the town was Minapa-a. During the Spanish colonisation period, the name of the town was changed to La Granja. The name \"Allen\" was given by the Americans in honor of the American General Henry Tureman Allen,the military governor of the Visayas after the victory of the Americans over the Spaniards in the Spanish–American War. During the Japanese occupation, the town's name was changed to Tanaman, in accordance with Executive Order No. 110 signed in December 1942, to be \"in line with the objective of the Greater East Asia War of eradicating all traces of Anglo-Saxon influence in East Asia.\"\n\nAllen is politically subdivided into 20 barangays. \n\nAllen is part of Northern Samar which is according to Australian studies, a part of the Philippines which is the homeland of the polynesians. Otley Bayer said that there are already people in the Philippines 250,000 years ago and this was confirmed by a French study which says that the Philippines has been populated by men as early as 700,000 years ago. Some old Filipino historians still have the mindset of \"Filipinos are savage and it has to be discovered and cultured by anything foreign\". These historians refuses to mention that there is a civilization of viking – like people based in the Lakanate of Lawan in Northern Samar (Samar was derived from Samaria). The Samar civilization was once headed by Datu Iberein as written by historian Henry Scott, and take note of the name, very Hebrew, consistent with jewish Samar from Samaria. These people have siday (native epic) in which one of them is Bingi of Lawan, as mentioned by historian Alcina. They have Almuraya which is now an ancient ruins and they have royal burial jars—all evidences would point that this civilization could be the Ophir, the homeland of the polynesians and viking – like people who sent people to different parts of the Philippines and islands in the pacific ocean, including the people of Taiwan.The area of present-day Allen was originally populated by natives of Malay stock from the western and central portions of the island of Samar, particularly Catbalogan and Calbayog. Successive migrations to Allen from other islands that are near Allen were characterised by several waves. Malays from the neighbouring Bicol Peninsula in what is now Sorsogon crossed what is now the San Bernardino Strait using small sailing barges, trading with the locals before settling in, and inter-marrying with the local Malays many years after. Simultaneously, Malays of southern stock from Bohol through the islands of Capul and San Antonio crossed the strait and settled in the area.\n\nThe heavy waves of migration from Bicol to Allen in Samar in the course of the centuries is attested by the fact that almost 70% of the peoples of Allen trace their ancestries to the families in Bicol, from the province of Sorsogon.\n\nThe first recorded persons to have their names officially entered into a Spanish census in Allen were that of Cosmenia Cajandab and Mariano Cabacang; both surnames originated from the island of Capul.\n\nAllen is also the hometown of Filipino sailing hero Florentino Das who holds the earliest record of a Trans-Pacific crossing from Hawaii to the Philippines. A memorial commemorating his achievement of 1956 is found in the town.\n\nAllen serves as an important transit point, connecting Samar and other islands with Luzon. It is opposite the Luzon transit point in the municipality of Matnog, Sorsogon. The primary modes of transport are the inter-island bus route via the Maharlika Highway, and the ferry crossing the San Bernardino Strait. Its location as a transit point makes it a future 'transitropolitan' area in the country.\n\nFerries cross the strategically important Strait of San Bernardino, transporting passengers and vehicles to and from Allen in Samar and Matnog in Luzon. Travel time ranges between one hour to 2 hours depending on the speed of the ferry.\n\nBuses from the various provinces of the Visayas and Mindanao bound for various destinations in Luzon pass through Allen, riding the ferry services of Allen to Matnog, and vice versa.\n\nThe bus terminals servicing the numerous passengers crossing the San Bernardino Strait are located at the piers and ports that are operational in Allen. Booking offices for buses that ply the route are also located at these terminals.\n\nA number of relatively low-priced hotels and inns within the town serve most of the transit passengers for overnight stay, specially during bad weather when some stranded passengers take refuge in the small hotels and inns. During bad weather conditions, ferries cannot cross the San Bernardino Strait due to high waves.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2126759", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126759", "title": "Biri, Northern Samar", "text": "Biri, Northern Samar\n\n', officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nThe archipelagic town is also known for its \"inakob\", a traditional Waray dish made by first cooking grated root crops (\"gabi\") with coconut milk, condensed milk, eggs, brown sugar, and an herb called \"anuv\". Once cooked, the grated \"gabi\" is put inside \"gabi\" shells which have been peeled. The dish is then boiled with coconut milk. The dish is traditionally eaten hot by the people of Biri during the rainy months.\n\nThe municipality is facing Pacific Ocean to the east and San Bernardino Strait to the west. It consists of several islands off the northern coast of Samar Island, the largest of which is Biri Island. Other larger islands are Talisay, Magasang, and Cagnipa. Biri Island is notable for a large number of unusual rock formations along the northern shore, facing the Philippine Sea. It is included in the marine protected area known as Biri Larosa Protected Landscape and Seascape.\n\nBiri is politically subdivided into 8 barangays.\n\nIn 2007, the Community-Based Mangrove Protection and Management project was implemented in Biri, funded by the Philippine Tropical Forest Conservation Foundation (PTFCF). The project aimed to contribute to the regeneration of the mangrove ecosystem by establishing a community-based mangrove management system. The project covered protection of 546 hectares and enhancement planting in 39 hectares. As of 2013, it has been expanded to all eight barangays in Biri.\n\nIn 2012, a non-profit organization, Biri Initiative Org., was registered with the Philippine Securities and Exchange Commission. Its main objectives are to restore areas of coral reef damaged by illegal fishing methods, promote sustainable and environment-friendly methods of fishing, and encourage opportunities for alternative livelihoods, particularly for women.\n\n"}
{"id": "2126760", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126760", "title": "Bobon", "text": "Bobon\n\n', officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nThe town borders with Catarman in the east and San Jose in the west.\n\nBobon is politically subdivided into 18 barangays.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2126761", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126761", "title": "Capul", "text": "Capul\n\n', officially the ', is a island in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nA lighthouse was built on the island which served as a guidepost for the Acapulco-Manila galleon trade vessels passing through the treacherous waters of San Bernardino Strait. It also served as the capital of Samar from 1848 to 1852.\n\nCapul is the only town in the province of Northern Samar with a distinct language, Inabaknon, instead of Waray, the native language spoken by the locals of Samar island. Inakbanon is unique in it being unrelated to the languages spoken in the entire Visayas and Luzon regions. Instead, it is classified by linguists as a Sama-Bajaw language.\n\nAccording to oral folk history, due to their not liking of the religion of the Moros who ruled over them, a group of people and their leader Abak fled Balabac and sailed until reaching the island of Capul. Here, they established a settlement which they called Abak.\n\nBy 1610, Spanish Jesuits had arrived in the island and construction of the first church began around this period.\n\nAccording to folklore, the name Capul came is said to have derived from the word Acapulco, an old trading post in Mexico.\n\nThe municipality is contiguous with Capul Island, located at the southern entrance to the San Bernardino Strait.\n\nCapul is politically subdivided into 12 barangays.\n\n\nCapul has a different language from the rest of Northern Samar and the rest of Eastern Visayas. The native language in the island-municipality is Inabaknon. Inabaknon has been classified by linguists as a Sama-Bajaw language closely related to those found in Mindanao, rather than a Visayan language. Nonetheless the Capul people understand the Waray language, as spoken by the majority of the people in Northern Samar.\n\nCapul Church and Fortress\n\nCapul Watchtower\n\nBitō Cave\n\nTimon-timon Rock\n\nCapul Island Lighthouse\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2126790", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126790", "title": "Catubig, Northern Samar", "text": "Catubig, Northern Samar\n\n', officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nCatubig was mentioned by historian William Henry Scott in his article \"Bingi of Lawan\" of the Lakanate of Lawan which one of the chieftain was Datu Iberein. The Scott article wrote in the Bingi of Lawan epic: \"There lived in this place a chief called Karagrag, who was its lord and ruler. He was married to a lady of his rank called Bingi, a name which had been bestowed on her because of her chastity, as we shall see. I was not able to find out if she came from the same town; most probably she was from upstream on the Catubig River, where she was the daughter of the chief there.\" \nAnother tale was mentioned that the name Catubig was also a product of a 'word compact' between Americans and Filipinos. It was stated that an American surveyors saw a cat sunbathing by rolling along the grassy edge of the brook. They then approached a young lady who was doing her laundry and asked, “What is that, cat?” The lass, hardly seeing the cat which was in higher elevation, and not knowing what the foreigners were asking about simply responded, “Tubig,” meaning the water of the brook.\n\nDuring the Philippine–American War, Catubig was the scene of a battle between the warays and the Americans known as the Siege of Catubig. The Siege of Catubig was fought for four days beginning April 15, 1900.\n\nCatubig is politically subdivided into 47 barangays. \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2126796", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126796", "title": "Nicky Weaver", "text": "Nicky Weaver\n\nNicholas James Weaver (born 2 March 1979) is an English former professional footballer who played as a goalkeeper most notably for Manchester City. He is currently the goalkeeper coach at Sheffield Wednesday.\n\nWeaver is a former England under-21 international and began his career with Mansfield Town in 1995. He joined Manchester City in 1997 and would go on to be a part of the club that earned promotion from the Second Division in 1999 in which he saved the decisive penalty in the play-off final shootout with Gillingham at Wembley Stadium. He would go on to earn promotion to the Premier League the following season and in total was promoted three times with City in a ten-year spell. By the time he left the club in 2007 he had been the club's second choice keeper for a number of years and had acted as understudy to the likes of Peter Schmeichel, David Seaman and David James. He went on to appear for Charlton Athletic, Dundee United, Burnley, Sheffield Wednesday and Aberdeen.\n\nWeaver was bought by Manchester City from Mansfield Town on the recommendation of goalkeeping coach Alex Stepney. He made his competitive Manchester City debut in the first match of the 1998–99 season against Blackpool, keeping a clean sheet. Over the course of the season Weaver kept a total of 26 clean sheets, breaking the club record for clean sheets in a season. Weaver was the hero for Manchester City in the 1999 Second Division Play-off final versus Gillingham after his penalty save clinched promotion, prompting him to go on a 'crazy run' around the Wembley pitch. Around this time, Weaver was tipped to receive full international honours for England by Jon McGinty after becoming an England under 21 international.\n\nWeaver remained first choice goalkeeper in 1999–2000, as City secured a second consecutive promotion by finishing in second place in the First Division. He then tasted Premier League football for the first time in the 2000–01 season, as the club was relegated in its first top flight campaign since 1996. Weaver missed almost half of City's league matches in 2001–02 through injury, as the club was again promoted back to the Premier League. Weaver's growing injury problems lead to Keegan signing veteran Peter Schmeichel for the 2002–03 season, with Weaver dropping to second choice.\n\nWeaver did not start any games in the 2002–03, 2003–04 and 2004–05 seasons. However, he did play the last fifteen minutes of the 2004–05 season, when Stuart Pearce surprisingly substituted Claudio Reyna for Weaver so the regular City goalkeeper David James could play in attack against Middlesbrough.\n\nWeaver's return to fitness resulted in injury once again during the close season of 2005, ruling him out of the start of the season. In Autumn 2005 Weaver went on loan to Sheffield Wednesday, the team he had supported since childhood and for whom he had played as a schoolboy, in an attempt to return to full fitness.\n\nWhile at Wednesday, Weaver made 14 appearances, beginning with a 2–1 victory at home to Derby County and ending with a 3–0 defeat away at Leeds United. He also played in the Steel City derby away at Bramall Lane against Sheffield United, where Wednesday were beaten 1–0. He was the only Sheffield born player in the entire fixture.\n\nBefore the 2006–07 season, Manchester City sold James to Portsmouth, bought Andreas Isaksson as a replacement and gave Isaksson the number 1 shirt. However, an injury to Isaksson meant Weaver played the first game of the season on 20 August 2006, his first senior start for the club in nearly three years and Weaver's improved form led to him starting all but one of the Manchester City games in the rest of 2006.\n\nOn 4 July 2007, out-of-contract Weaver signed for Charlton Athletic on a free transfer. On 5 April 2008, Weaver was sent off after three minutes for handball in a match against Plymouth Argyle. The incident marked the quickest ever dismissal of a Charlton player, a record that would remain until 2018. Following his release from Charlton, Weaver signed for Dundee United on 5 August 2009 on a short-term contract. The United fans took to him instantly and – although he was pelted by snowballs by Aberdeen fans in his final home match at Tannadice as the ground staff thought it was a good idea not to clear all the snow – he played in every league match before his contract expired in January 2010.\n\nOn 27 January 2010, Weaver signed an initial six-month contract with Burnley on a free transfer subject to international clearance. However, he was released on 11 May 2010 without making a single appearance.\n\nWith Lee Grant's departure from Sheffield Wednesday to Burnley in the close season, Weaver the ex-Owl loanee and Wednesday fan signed as a replacement after the club's transfer embargo was lifted. On 4 October 2010, Weaver was awarded the Handley Brown player of the month for September after a number of impressive performances in an underachieving Wednesday team. Weaver was awarded man of the match against Chesterfield in a Football League Trophy second round match after scoring the decisive penalty and saving three spot kicks, two of which were vital sudden death saves to keep Wednesday in the competition.\n\nWeaver received his second successive Player of The Month award off the club for his performances in October. His consistent performances led to him signing a new two-and-a-half-year deal on 14 February 2011, which due to an oversight by the press office was not announced until 4 April. Weaver fell out of favour at Sheffield Wednesday following the signing of Chris Kirkland, with Kirkland inheriting Weaver's no.1 shirt. After failing to appear in any matchday squad since Kirkland's arrival, he was released at the end of the season.\n\nOn 15 July 2013, Weaver signed for Aberdeen on a six-month contract. This was extended for a further six months in January 2014.\n\nIn September 2014, Weaver returned to Sheffield Wednesday as academy goalkeeping coach. He replaced Andy Rhodes as first team goalkeeping coach in July 2018.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2126798", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126798", "title": "Alton Kelley", "text": "Alton Kelley\n\nAlton Kelley (June 17, 1940 – June 1, 2008) was an American artist known for his psychedelic art, in particular his designs for 1960s rock concert posters and album covers. Along with artists Rick Griffin, Stanley Mouse, Victor Moscoso and Wes Wilson, Kelley founded the Berkeley Bonaparte distribution agency in order to produce and sell psychedelic poster art.\n\nAlong with fellow artist Stanley Mouse, Kelley is credited with creating the wings and beetles on all Journey album covers as well as the skull and roses image for the Grateful Dead. Kelley's artwork on the 1971 self-titled live album, \"Grateful Dead\", incorporated a black and white illustration of a skeleton by Edmund Sullivan, which originally appeared in a 19th-century edition of the \"Rubáiyát of Omar Khayyám\".\n\nIn 1995, Kelley designed and printed a limited edition poster of Jack Kerouac to raise money for the Jan Kerouac Benefit Fund. Kelley is also credited for the cover art for the King's X album \"Ear Candy\" in 1996.\n\nHe was brought up in Connecticut and worked as a welder there.\n\nHe died on June 1, 2008, at the age of 67, after a long illness.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2126800", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126800", "title": "Gamay, Northern Samar", "text": "Gamay, Northern Samar\n\n', officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nIn the east, it is bounded by the Pacific Ocean, in the south by Lapinig, in the north-west by Mapanas and Catubig. \n\nGamay is politically subdivided into 26 barangays.\n\n"}
{"id": "2126801", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126801", "title": "Laoang", "text": "Laoang\n\n', officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nIt is the economic, educational, socio-cultural and government center of the 2nd district of the province.\n\nThe municipality lies on the eastern side of the province. Bordering Pambujan in the west, Palapag facing east and the municipality of Catubig as its southern neighbor while the Philippine Sea stretches in the north.\n\nLaoang is geographically divided into three distinct areas. The first is the lowlands of the mainland of Samar Island along the mouth of the Catubig River. The second is Laoang Island itself where the poblacion is situated, and the third is the Batag Island which forms as a natural barrier from the waters of the Pacific Ocean.\n\nLaoang is politically subdivided into 56 barangays.\n\nWritten by: Rev.Msgr. Gaspar D. Balerite, H.P.S.Th.D., Vicar General-Diocese of Catarman\n\nIn the pre-Hispanic times, the poblacion of Laoang was a settlement called Makarato while the whole island was called Lawang which later on evolved into Laoang.\nAccording to Fr. Ignatius Alzina in his book \"Historia de las Islas y Indios de Bisayas\", the settlement was ruled by a monarch called Dato Karagrag, whose consort Bingi had an irresistible beauty that captivated other neighbouring kings, especially the dato from Albay. (Fr. Alzina lived as missionary in Samar and Leyte for 38 years, from 1634 to 1674, working mostly in Palapag.) Contrary to the popular legend that the word “Laoang” is an evolution of the word “lawag”, Laoang as “Lawang” in 1800s maps may have its origin from early Indonesian settlers of the island. In Sumatra Island (now part of Indonesia), there is a village known Bukitlawang in the vicinity of Lake Toba; Samareños are fond of abbreviations and contractions, hence the current name\n\nThen, describing the place of the settlement, Fr. Alzina in his visit to the place in 1640 says, “On the opposite side of Rawis, on the Lawang Island, which is a sandbar there is a solid ridge of rock. It is fashioned by nature itself and it is so steep that it looks like a façade of a wall… It was a natural fortification, due to its great height of massive rock; it was also secured as if by a moat which encircled its three sides. The fourth side was blocked by a palisade of strong logs. Then too, nature also formed on one side of this rock something like a small cove with its little beach.”\n\nHistorian William Henry Scott wrote that a “Samar datu by the name of Iberein was rowed out to a Spanish vessel anchored in his harbor in 1543 by oarsmen collared in gold; while wearing on his own person earrings and chains.” In the local epic called \"siday\" entitled Bingi of Lawan as written in the article of Scott, Lawan is a prosperous Lakanate in Samar. Datu Hadi Iberein came from the Lakanate of Lawan \n\nThe Christianisation of Laoang was as early as the evangelisation of the whole island, and began when Jesuit missionaries arrived in Tinago (now Dapdap in Tarangnan, Samar), on October 15, 1596. Soon after, the missionaries traversed the north-west of the island over the Gandara River and reached Ibabao in the north-east. They founded a mission station in Catubig (originally in Binongtoan, Las Navas). In 1605 the Catubig mission established other mission stations: in Rawis, Batac (Batag Island), Laoang, and Palapag. In 1606, the center of the Ibabao mission was moved from Catubig to Palapag. The mission center of Palapag was called Residencia de Cabo del Espritu Santo. In the 1650s Laoang became one of ten mission-stations covered by the Palapag Residencia which comprised stations from Bobon to Borongan.\n\nOn February 27, 1767, Charles III of Spain expelled the Society of Jesus from the Spanish Empire and all its territories including the Philippines. The order then left the colony in batches between August 1769 and January 1770, and were replaced by the Franciscans who arrived in Catbalogan on September 25, 1768. Rev. José Anda, SJ was the last Jesuit to minister in Laoang and Rev. Antonio Toledo, OFM took over administration of Laoang, with the titular St. Michael the Archangel upon his arrival in November 1768. In the same year, Pambujan was founded as a \"visita\" of Laoang (\"visita\" was the 17th-century ecclesiastical term for a village with a non-resident priest, similar to chapelries in Britain).\n\nTo prevent raids by Moro invaders, the Governor-General proposed in 1814 the construction of defensive plans. Rev. José Mata, parish priest of both Laoang and Palapag, was cited for being the first to have launched a construction of \"muralla\" in Laoang at his own expense. To ease the constant shuttling of the parish priest from Palapag to Laoang, the townspeople of Laoang petitioned for a permanent minister. During the tenure of Rev. Manuel Lozano in the 1840s, an earthquake damaged the parish church, which was renovated between 1848 and 1852 by Rev Sebastian Almonacid. He had the attached rectory fixed as well, and he directed the construction of the tribunal and schoolhouse using stone and wood.\n\nOn August 4, 1863, Pambujan seceded from Laoang. In 1869 a great fire broke out in the town and besides many other buildings, it consumed the entire roof and wooden materials of the church, belfry and convent. Five years later the church complex was reconstructed. By 1890, Laoang had the population of 5,384 in the población and a total of 2,754 in four visitas and eight barrios. The last Spanish parish priest of Laoang was Rev. Telesforo Acereda, after which the entire Philippine Islands were ceded by Spain to the United States of America in 1898.\n\nIn 1930s, a controversy broke out between the Catholic Church and civil authorities (by then separated by the American colonial government) when an organisation called \"\"Dugo ni Rizal\"\" insisted on erecting a statue of Dr. José Rizal on the plaza, land which the Church claimed. The case was brought to the court with Msgr. Sofronio Hacbang, Bishop of Samar and Leyte, acting as applicant-appellant. The Supreme Court \"en banc\" issued a decision on July 31, 1935, which confirmed that the lots presently occupied by the church, convent, auditorium, and plaza were ecclesiastical property. The presence of José Rizal's statue caused the plaza to be erroneously called “Plaza Rizal” for years, even though it had been called Plaza María since Spanish times. It is now called “Plaza Inmaculada Concepción” in honour of the Immaculate Conception, whose statue stands on the square's western side. In the 1970s, recognising the Church's ownership of the plaza, the civil government moved the statue of Rizal from the centre of the square to its present location on the eastern side.\n\nWhen the Diocese of Catarman was formally created on March 11, 1975, Laoang became the center of the Vicariate of St. Thérèse of Child Jesus which comprised the other towns of Palapag, Catubig, Las Navas, Pambujan, and San Roque. When the diocese celebrated its 25th Anniversary two mission centers were created: Salvacion which covered all the barrios of Batag Island including Barangay Cahayagan; and Rawis which comprised all the surrounding barangays bordering on barrios on the right banks of the river going to Catubig.\n\nThe religiosity of Laoang is graced when one of its parish priests was proclaimed “Blessed” by Pope Benedict XVI on October 12, 2007. He was Fr. Angel Ranera, OFM, the parish priest of Laoang from 1924 till his return to Spain in 1929. [During the Spanish Civil War, he faced the firing squad of the rebels with two other priests on August 16, 1936.] The first council of the Knights of Columbus in Northern Samar was installed in Laoang in 1949, the Msgr. Diasnes Council. Since 1957 only in Laoang that a communitarian devotion to Mary, Barangay sang Birhen, is still being practiced without interruption. Immediately after the creation of the Diocese of Catarman one of the initial acts of the first diocesan bishop, Angel T. Hobayon, was to petition the Pope to grant a papal honor to the parish priest of Laoang with the title “Domestic Prelate,” to Potenciano Ortega. When the North of Samar celebrated its 400th year of Christianity, the Bishop again petitioned the Pope to grand Papal Honors with the title “Honorary Prelates” to three priests, two of them from Laoang: Msgr. Gaspar Balerite and Msgr. Romeo Infante. Of all the parishes in the whole island of Samar, Laoang has the most number of native priests: as of this writing, 37 priests in all.\n\nLaoang serves as the economic center of the Northeastern Pacific region.\n\nThe municipality boasts for having three elementary school districts (two in the poblacion area), 13 secondary schools including one private-sectarian high school (Colegio de Santa Teresita) and a laboratory high school. The University of Eastern Philippines maintains one satellite branch.\n\nSeveral festivities are celebrated throughout the year. In the 4th Sunday of January, they celebrate the feast of Santo Niño or the Child Jesus.\n\nFlores De Mayo, like any other Philippine town, is also done in May and the town's fiesta is on September 28–29 in honor of its patron St. Michael the Archangel.\n\nIts people shares its rich oral/written literature such as surumatanons and is handed down from the earliest inhabitants to the new generation.\n\nAlso popular are the kundimans in Waray version, sidays and individual compositions. One of this is the \"Laoang Sunset\" or \"Sidsid San Adlaw Sa Laoang\" composed by Bernardino Muncada which portrays the beauty of the town.\n\nMajority of the populace are Roman Catholic and is very religious. It has the most number (37) of ordained presbyters (including five monsignors) of the Roman Catholic Church in the whole region with the exception of the municipality of Villareal, Samar.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2126802", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126802", "title": "Lapinig", "text": "Lapinig\n\n', officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nIt is Northern Samar's boundary municipality with Eastern Samar on its coastal side in the Pacific. To the south, it is bounded by Arteche, to the west by Jipapad, to the northeast by the Pacific Ocean, and in the northwest by Gamay.\n\nLapinig is politically subdivided into 15 barangays.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2126804", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126804", "title": "Las Navas, Northern Samar", "text": "Las Navas, Northern Samar\n\n', officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nBefore the reversion of the municipality to a mere barrio, a certain Spanish Colonel of the Spanish Armed Forces by the name of De Las Navas explored the northern part of Samar. He sailed with his men upstream Catubig River and reached a place called \"Binongtu-an\". The people warmly met him as a high-ranking Official of the Spanish Armed Forces with full respect and high regard to the Government.\n\nIn his visit to the place, he changed the name \"Binongtu-an\" to Las Navas in his honor and serve as a reminder that a prominent Spanish Army arrived and reached the place. The people accepted Las Navas as its official name.\n\nLas Navas is situated in the heart of Samar Island, lying along the Las Navas River (formerly Catubig River). It comprises a wide lowlands between hills now known as the Catubig Valley. The Las Navas river is wide and big enough that small tonnage or motored vessels can easily sail to the source of the river. It is bounded on the north by Catubig, on the east by Jipapad, Eastern Samar, on the west by Silvino Lubos, and on the south by the municipality of Matuguinao and San Jose de Buan, Western Samar (Samar).\n\nThe municipality has a total land area of . Most of this land is devoted to agricultural production and the rest are forest reserves. Its soil is predominantly silt and clay loam with fine texture and high water retention. This soil type is fertile and suitable for lowland rice but needs water drainage for upland crops.\n\nRivers, brooks, creeks can be found practically when hiking from one place to another and traversed by the Las Navas River (formerly Catubig river). The Las Navas River (formerly Catubig River) is considered the main river, compared to Hinaga River and Hagbay River.\n\nLas Navas is politically subdivided into 53 barangays.\n\nDuring the Spanish regime, one of the municipalities that was recognized as a town is Las Navas, formerly known as \"Bungto\" (meaning town). Upon recognition, a Parochial Church was constructed with a Parochial Priest as head of the town.\n\nTowards the end of the 18th century, a band of Moro pirates sailed to the river and reached the town. There, the inhabitants were robbed and the town was burned. Afraid that the pirates would return again, the people abandoned the town for a period of time.\n\nAfter several months, the people returned to the place and retrieved all that were left by the fire. They constructed their homes and reestablished the town and the seat of the government. As soon as the municipality was reestablished and the community was stabilized, the populace and leaders unanimously agreed to change the town's name from \"Bungto\" (Town) to \"Binongtu–an\" to emphasize and commemorate that the place was once a thriving town, was abandoned because of Moro pirates' assault, and was resettled after sometime.\n\nA research on the history of Las Navas revealed documents from the National Archives, \"Errecion de los Pueblos Samar 1786-1898, Pueblos de Catubig y Binungtuan Tomo\", Exp. 9, pol. 149-197. Exepediente promovido en 1832 sobre la erreccion de la visita de Binungtuan en pueblo civil independiente de su matriz Catubig en la prov de Samar, Manila, 20 de Dissiembre de 1848.\n\nGenerally, the people speak Waray-Waray language as a common dialect, while English and Pilipino is used only as medium of instructions in schools and other types of communications.\n\nThe municipality is basically an agricultural area with rice production as a major activity. However, of the total land area, only 47.33 km² are planted with rice, while 32.75 km² are devoted to coconuts. The remaining areas are planted with abaca with a total of 13.32 km², and root crops with a total of 5.4 km². Livestocks and poultry are considered a major source of livelihood for small farmers and their families.\n\nOther major resources include timber products, tikog and rattan are also abundant, offering such bright prospect for agricultural development and for subsequent industrialization through small and medium scale industries.\n\nThe municipality is served by a district hospital of the adjacent town of Catubig, but it has its own Rural Health Center in the Poblacion and other barangay Health Stations for health services. Girlie Drugstore is the only operational pharmacy in the area, located at La Purisima Street, Poblacion.\n\nFor health manpower, one rural health Physician serves the area assisted by a rural health nurse, a sanitary inspector, four rural Health Midwives, as well as volunteers for health services known as Barangay Health Workers (SHWS). It is through this government organization where health care and family planning including immunization are implemented.\n\nEducation is given emphasis and is the top priority among the programs of the municipality. Educational facilities include an elementary school district offering all levels (Grades 1 through 6), while 39 barangay primary schools offer limited levels.\n\nIt has a complete secondary school which offers agro – industrial technology and basic academic requirements. Also, Las Navas has a technical-vocational school that is known to be the sole Technical Education and Skills Development Authority's (TESDA) Administered School in the 2nd District of the Province of Northern Samar, the TESDA-Las Navas Agro-Industrial School (TESDA-LNAIS) that offers eighteen (18) technical-vocational courses registered under the Unified TVET Program Registration and Accreditation System (UTPRAS) being managed by Vivian Abueva Poblete, the Vocational School Administrator II. Las Navas has also a tertiary school which is the Colegio de Las Navas-the only community college in Northern Samar which is owned and operated by the Local Government Unit of this municipality. This community college offers free tuition fees to those underprivileged students.(Leonard Ocino Lluz, Assistant Municipal Assessor/LGU-Las Navas)\n\nThe municipality is readily accessible through navigation along the Catubig river with the use of pump boats and bancas. The pump boats ply from Las Navas to Catubig daily at PhP 40.00 (US$0.80) per person. These small boats dock at small docking facilities called \"Look\" in both Catubig and Las Navas. It only takes 30 minutes to get to Las Navas from Catubig, and boats traverse the river daily, leaving Las Navas at 5:00 a.m. and arrives at around 5:30 a.m. in Catubig (and vice versa).\n\nMotorboats and bancas are used in going to the different barangays, although hiking is still practiced by many barangay folks in going to and from the Poblacion.\n\nLas Navas today is now connected to the national road system The road and Las Navas bridge was formally inaugurated by President Gloria Mcapagal Arrroyo last June 16, 2009.\n\nA Telecom Office and a municipal Post Office are the only major communication facilities of the town. Both facilities are located in the municipal compound in La Purisima St., Jolejole District.\n\nFor long-distance calls or calls outside the province, the residence avail of the communication facilities at Catarman – the capital town. But nowadays the town also used cellphones.\nThe town has two cell sites, smart and globe communication. The internet connection is now available through globe tattoo. Signal reaches to different barangay in this municipality.\n\nWater works system (Level II) serves the poblacion of Las Navas. In the barangays, individual households usually obtain water from wells, springs, rain catchment and from the river.\n\nFifteen kilometers from the poblacion area upstream Las Navas River (Catubig River), a famous falls known as the \"Pinipisakan Falls\" towers as the main tourist attraction of the municipality. The place is easily accessible by motor boats and vehicles if the weather is good (mahuraw).\n\nPinipisakan Falls a tourist destination was formally inaugurated as a new tourist destination last August 18, 2009, with the SINP-DENR came for the groundbreaking and inauguration making the place as an ecotourism destination. Aside from the Pinipisakan Falls, it also has the beautiful lasnavasnon cave located near the 3 km hanging bridge and also the Ginagatusan Lake. Added to the place is the Las Navas Dam for the irrigation of the Las Navas Valley. What is new to the poblacion, the ongoing construction of Our Ladys Nativity Church and its rectory. The Painting of the whole church was the concerned of Mr. Omeng Gudiaga, Right now right the ceiling works and painting is on going and scheduled to be completed before Christmas.\n\nThe church development was started by Katarmananon Engr. Romualdo D. Saises, Municipal Engineer, married to Ma. Zenaida Robis donated a beautiful altar and the family of Mr. Ricky Lo the statue of the Virgen. Mr. Jose A. Tan also completed the walling with narra woods makes the altar more beautiful. Right now lasnavasnon without giving their names donated a large amount of money for the ceiling and the parish priest Fr. Cleofas Anonuevo that there is also a donor for the completion of the floor tiles.\n\nFor you to see the whole town, proceed to the Las Navas View Deck, be there at 5 a.m. and witness the place while the fog is still covers the poblacion.\n\nLas Navas with Samar Island Natural Park-DENR provided an amount for the construction of Las Navas Pinipisakan Falls View Deck.\n\nLiving Asia Channel visited Pinipisakan Falls last March 30, 2010. The group was headed by Sunly, writer, Josette Doctor, provincial tourism officer, Municipal Development and Tourism Officer of Las Navas.\n\n"}
{"id": "2126805", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126805", "title": "Lavezares", "text": "Lavezares\n\n', officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nIt is bounded on the west by the municipality of Allen, on the north-west by San Bernardino Strait, on the south and south-west by the municipality of Victoria, on the east by the municipality of Rosario and on the north by the municipality of Biri. \n\nLavezares has a land area of , with a topography that is generally characterized by very rugged terrain with many steep and elevated areas classified as undulating to hilly. Technically, there are only two hills in the area, these are located in the southernmost part of Barangays Chansvilla and Toog. No mountain can be found in the area.\n\nThere are also no major plains but a few flat lands that not very extensive. The coastal areas of Lavezares are limited and have generally moderately terrain. Bacolods which serve as natural breakwater on different coasts of the municipality can be found along the coasts of Barangays Balicuatro, Villa, Bani and Magsaysay among others. They are protected as part of the Biri Larosa Protected Landscape and Seascape.\n\nLand reclamation in different parts of the municipality particularly in island barangays of San Juan, San Isdro, Magsaysay and Bani is continuously being done. The coastal barangays along the mainland are similarly reclaiming lands which include the coasts of Barangays Libas, Cataogan, Sabang-Tabok, Urdaneta and Barobaybay.\n\nLavezares is politically subdivided into 26 barangays, 12 of which are considered as inland barangays and 14 coastal barangays, which can be subclassified into 5 island barangays and 9 barangays situated along the coast of the mainland.\n\nInland barangays:\n\nCoastal barangays:\nThe smallest barangay is Cataogan, while the largest is Bani. According to the Provincial Physical Framework Plan of 2004–2013, the municipality is suitable for irrigated rice, fish ponds, trees and crops.\n\nThe mainland is attached entirely to the entire Samar Island. Maravilla Island, San Juan Island and Bani Island are the three major islands of the municipality.\n\nLavezares was just a visita during the late 19th century. In this period of time, Barobaybay, Villa and MacArthur served as the oldest pueblos of the old municipality.\n\nDuring the Spanish period, Lavezares was controlled by secular piests. It was named in honor of the Spanish Governor-General Guido de Lavezares who helped them become separated from the Municipality of Allen, and be an independent municipality. Sitios of Lavezares including Caburihan, Ocad, Caragas, Cataogan and Sabang-Tabok were converted into barangays though Republic Act 2370 (the \"Barrio Charter Act\") and Republic Act 3590 (the \"Revised Barrio Charter Act\"). And shortly, the municipality was administered by the \"capitanes\", \"presidentes\" and municipal mayors.\n\nThe political body of Lavezares was established in 1875 under the Spanish colonial power wherein the local executive was alluded as \"Capitanes\". From 1903 to 1935, the persons who assumed the position were called \"Presidentes\", and from 1936 until present where they were referred to as \"Municipal Mayors\".\n\nAccess to Lavezares has two options: from Manila, a fourteen to fifteen hours of bus ride with Roll-on/roll-off vessels from Matnog, Sorsogon, to the port of Allen, Northern Samar, or taking a plane to Catarman and a jeepney ride to Lavezares both serving as the main transport facility towards this portion.\n\nIn this coastal province of Northern Samar, eco-tourism may just become an alternative income generator aside from coconuts and fishing.\n\nTrue to mention are the white sand beaches abounding among its coastal and groups of island barangays that comprises the municipality though some parts have strong underwater current not suitable for a beach resort. Current white sand beach resorts are found at barangays Urdaneta and Barobaybay and waters between Bani Island and Barobaybay. The resorts offer huts along the beachfront and for overnight stays, tourist inns are available.\n\nThe coral reefs in Bancauan Island, Bani Island, Barangay Maravilla and Barangay San Juan are good for scuba diving.\n\nThe sunsets can be viewed at Lavezares Bay and Barangay Barobaybay, but Barangay Maravilla provides the most outstanding view because of the island's north to south orientation with just the vast sea on sight.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2126807", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126807", "title": "AGM-64 Hornet", "text": "AGM-64 Hornet\n\nThe AGM-64 Hornet is a missile produced by the United States.\n\nThe weapon began life in the early 1960s. North American Aviation produced a missile design for the U.S. Air Force's Anti-Tank Guided Aircraft Rocket (ATGAR) project. The ATGAR was ultimately not produced, but the Air Force was impressed enough that in 1963 it awarded North American a development contract for the ZAGM-64A Hornet missile. The Hornet was planned as a battlefield missile for use against armored vehicles which would mount an electro-optical guidance system.\n\nThe first test firing of the prototype XAGM-64A occurred in December 1964. It was powered by a fast-burning solid rocket motor. The electro-optical guidance system provided a live TV image to the cockpit; the operator would lock the missile onto the desired target before launch and the missile would home in on it automatically.\n\nThe Air Force ultimately stopped development of the AGM-64, judging that the similar AGM-65 Maverick had more potential. Although not produced as a weapon, the Hornet became a testbed for various guidance systems including different varieties of electro-optical systems and a magnetic guidance system. The program was terminated in 1968.\n\nThe XAGM-64 was briefly revived in the early 1970s, again to test missile guidance systems. The propulsion system of the missile was upgraded, increasing the range to as much as 2.5 miles (4 km). In this configuration the Hornet tested laser guidance packages, the electro-optical system designed for the GBU-8/B and GBU-9/B Homing Bomb System (HOBOS) glide bombs, and the terminal guidance system for the AGM-114 Hellfire anti-tank missile.\n\n"}
{"id": "2126808", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126808", "title": "Lope de Vega, Northern Samar", "text": "Lope de Vega, Northern Samar\n\n', officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nIt is bordered in the north by Catarman and Mondragon in the east and the province of Samar in the south.\n\nLope de Vega was created under Batas Pambansa Blg. 69 on May 1, 1980, separating 22 barangays from Catarman. It is named after the Baroque Spanish playwright and poet Lope de Vega.\n\nLope De Vega is politically subdivided into 22 barangays.\n\nLope de Vega is served by buses, jeepneys, and van-for-hire with service to Catarman, Calbayog City and to Tacloban City. There are ships also that travels from Calbayog City to Cebu City. The town has no airport, but is accessible via nearby Catarman National Airport and Calbayog Airport.\n\n"}
{"id": "2126819", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126819", "title": "Nemi", "text": "Nemi\n\nNemi is a town and \"comune\" in the Metropolitan City of Rome (central Italy), in the Alban Hills overlooking Lake Nemi, a volcanic crater lake. It is northwest of Velletri and about southeast of Rome.\n\nThe town's name derives from the Latin \"nemus\", or \"holy wood\". In antiquity the area had no town, but the grove was the site of one of the most famous of Roman cults and temples: the Temple of Diana Nemorensis, a study of which served as the seed for Sir James Frazer's seminal work on the anthropology of religion, \"The Golden Bough\".\nIn 1514 Marcantonio I Colonna gave to Nemi the \"Statuti e Capituli del Castello di Nemi\", the first city statute with rules and regulations to observe.\n\nThe Temple of Diana Nemorensis was an ancient Roman sanctuary erected around 300 BC and dedicated to the goddess Diana. The temple was situated on the northern shore of Lake Nemi beneath the cliffs of the modern city Nemi (Latin \"nemus Aricinum\"). It was a famous place of pilgrimage in the Italian peninsula. The temple complex covered an area of 45000 square meters.\n\nHistorical evidence suggests that worship of Diana at Nemi flourished from at least the 6th century BCE The temple was abandoned at some point in the late Roman Empire period. If still in use by the 4th-century, it would have been closed during the persecution of pagans in the late Roman Empire. Portions of its marbles and decorations were removed. The area of the temple was gradually covered by forest and generally left undisturbed for centuries. Amateur archaeological excavations of the site began in the 1600s.\n\nPossibly in connection with the cult of Diana Nemorensis, Roma emperor Caligula built several very large and costly luxury barges for use on the lake. One ship was a shrine dedicated to ceremonies for the Egyptian Isis cult or the cult of Diana Nemorensis, designed to be towed, and the other was a pleasure boat with buildings on it. After Caligula's overthrow, the boats were scuttled.\n\nThe ships were rediscovered during the Renaissance, when architect Leon Battista Alberti is reported to have attempted to raise the ships by roping them to buoyant barrels. While ingenious, this method proved unsuccessful, because of extensive rotting.\n\nThe boats were finally salvaged from 1929 to 1932 under orders of Benito Mussolini. This was just one of many attempts to relate himself to the Roman Emperors of the past. The ships were exposed by lowering the lake level using underground canals that were dug by the ancient Romans. The excavation was led by Guido Ucelli and was reported in \"Le Nave di Nemi\" by Guido Ucelli (Rome, 1950). They were destroyed by fire on 31 May 1944, it is disputed whether this was done by defeated German forces retreating from Italy at the end of World War II or accidentally by squatters taking refuge in the museum building. Surviving remnants from the excavations as well as replicas are now displayed in the Museo Nazionale Romano at the Palazzo Massimo in Rome. The ship hulls survive today at Museo delle Navi Romane, Nemi.\n\nNemi itself is home to a few late medieval to 18th‑century churches, and the Castello Ruspoli, dominating both town and landscape, the core of which dates to the 10th century.\nNemi is famous for its wild strawberries, which are smaller and sweeter than commercially grown varieties. Nemi's strawberries are grown on the sides of the volcanic crater, which creates a microclimate that retains the warmth of the sun and provides a wind shield. Nemi conducts an annual festival of strawberries.\n\n\n<br>\n"}
{"id": "2126820", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126820", "title": "Druid Hills Golf Club", "text": "Druid Hills Golf Club\n\nThe Druid Hills Golf Club is a private country club located in the Druid Hills neighborhood of Atlanta, Georgia. The course has frequently hosted U.S. Women's Open qualifying tournaments.\n\nFounded in 1912, the club's facilities include golf, dining, tennis, fitness, and swimming.\n\nIn December 1921, Charles Mayo accepted a position as head professional at Druid Hills. He replaced the late J. Douglas Edgar. Edgar's death was mysterious. He was found late at night on West Peachtree Street in Atlanta, bleeding heavily from a deep wound in his leg, and died in the street before any trained help could arrive. The case was turned over to police, but never solved.\n\nIn May 1924 the clubhouse was gutted by fire for a $100,000 loss but was promptly rebuilt. In 2003 the golf course underwent a major rehabilitation. The club hosts the Dogwood Invitational, a top ten men's amateur golf tournament. The original course was designed by Herbert H. Barker in 1912. Subsequent renovations were completed by A. W. Tillinghast in 1935 and Bob Cupp in 2003.\n\nIn October 1921 President Warren G. Harding and his wife visited Atlanta. The distinguished couple had previously been in Columbus, where the president had inspected the army post at Fort Benning. The Hardings visited Druid Hills Golf Club where a luncheon was served to the president and his entourage.\n\nThe Druid Hills Golf Club's street address is 740 Clifton Road, N.E., Atlanta, Georgia. The clubhouse is within Atlanta's city limits, but most of the course is located in unincorporated DeKalb County.\n\n"}
{"id": "2126821", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126821", "title": "Guardian First Book Award", "text": "Guardian First Book Award\n\nThe Guardian First Book Award was a literary award presented by \"The Guardian\" newspaper. It annually recognised one book by a new writer. It was established in 1999, replacing the Guardian Fiction Award or Guardian Fiction Prize that the newspaper had sponsored from 1965. The Guardian First Book Award was discontinued in 2016, with the 2015 awards being the last.\n\nThe newspaper determined to change its book award after 1998, and during that year also hired Claire Armitstead as literary editor. At the inaugural First Book Award ceremony in 1999, she said that she was informed of the change, details to be arranged, by the head of the marketing department during her second week on the job. \"By the time we left the room we had decided on two key things. We would make it a first book award, and we would involve reading groups in the judging process. This was going to be the people's prize.\" About the opening of the prize to nonfiction she had said in August, \"readers do not segregate their reading into fiction or non-fiction, so neither should we.\" There was no restriction on genre; for example, both poetry and travel would be included in principle, and so would self-published autobiographies.\n\nFor the first rendition, 140 books were submitted, including a lot of nonfiction strongest \"by far\" in \"a hybrid of travel-writing and reportage\"; weak in science and biography. Experts led by Armitstead selected a longlist of 11 and Borders book stores in Glasgow, London, Brighton and Leeds hosted reading groups that considered one book a week, September to November, and selected a shortlist of six. A panel of eight judges including two \"Guardian\" editors chose the winner. The newspaper called it \"the first time the ordinary reading public have been involved in the selection of a major literary prize.\" In the event, the 1999 reading groups selected a shortlist including six novels, and all four groups favoured the novel \"Ghostwritten\" by David Mitchell. Their second favourite was one of the travelogue and reporting hybrids, by Philip Gourevitch of \"The New Yorker\". The judges chose the latter, \"We Wish To Inform You That Tomorrow We Will Be Killed With Our Families\" —\"a horrifying but humane account of the Rwandan genocide, its causes and consequences\", the newspaper called it in August.\n\nThe prize was worth £10,000 to the winner. Eligible titles were published in English, and in the UK within the calendar year.\n\nSource: \n\nBlue ribbon () = winner\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2126825", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126825", "title": "Dogwood Invitational", "text": "Dogwood Invitational\n\nThe Dogwood Invitational is an amateur golf championship played annually at Druid Hills Golf Club in Atlanta, Georgia. Established in 1941, the goal of the Dogwood is to promote the game of amateur golf and support junior golf organizations. The tournament is run by The Dogwood Foundation, a 501(c)3 nonprofit. The Dogwood Invitation has consistently been a \"Category B\" tournament in the World Amateur Golf Ranking which means that it is one of the top 150 men's events world-wide based on strength-of-field.\n\nThe 18-hole, par-72 course at Druid Hills is 6,860 yards from the Dogwood Tees with a slope of 139 and 73.5 rating. The field is created via invitation only and is supplemented with an 18-hole open qualifier, during tournament week. Golfers are required to have a USGA handicap index of seven or lower in order to be considered for participation in the qualifier.\n\nBeneficiaries of the monies raised during the Dogwood include the Atlanta Junior Golf Association, who holds more than 90 tournaments and golf training programs for children aged 7–16 in the metro-Atlanta area and The Wayne Reynolds Scholarship Foundation, which awards annual grants for four years to deserving junior golfers in the state of Georgia attending accredited colleges or universities.\n\nThe Dogwood Champion receives exemptions into the Canadian Amateur and Master of the Amateurs in Australia.\n\n"}
{"id": "2126828", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126828", "title": "Sergei Brukhonenko", "text": "Sergei Brukhonenko\n\nSergei Sergeevich Brukhonenko (, 30 April 1890 in Kozlov – 20 April 1960) was a Soviet physician, biomedical scientist and technologist during the Stalinist era. Brukhonenko's research was vital to the development of open-heart procedures in Russia. He was one of the leaders of the Research Institute of Experimental Surgery, where Professor Alexander Vishnevsky performed the first Soviet open-heart operation in 1957.\n\nBrukhonenko is primarily remembered for his development of the autojektor, one of the first heart and lung machines. The device was used with mixed results in a series of experiments with canines during the year 1939, which can be seen in the film \"Experiments in the Revival of Organisms\". While some today speculate that the film is a re-staging of the procedures, the experiments themselves were well documented, and resulted in Brukhonenko being posthumously awarded the prestigious Lenin Prize.\nBrukhonenko was also known for his experiments of decapitating animals (mainly dogs) and attempting to put them on life support thus keeping the head alive for multiple hours. \n\n"}
{"id": "2126832", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126832", "title": "Dudley Buck", "text": "Dudley Buck\n\nDudley Buck (March 10, 1839October 6, 1909) was an American composer, organist, and writer on music. He published several books, most notably the \"Dictionary of Musical Terms\" and \"Influence of the Organ in History\", which was published in New York City in 1882.\n\nHe is best known today for his organ composition, \"Concert Variations on the Star-Spangled Banner\", Op. 23, which was later arranged into an orchestral version.\n\nBorn in Hartford, Connecticut, Buck was the son of a merchant who gave him every opportunity to cultivate his musical talents. After attending Trinity College, for four years (1858–1862) he studied in Leipzig at the Leipzig Conservatory where he was a pupil of Louis Plaidy. He then pursued further studies in Dresden and Paris. On returning to America he held positions of organist in Hartford, Chicago (1869), and Boston (1871).\n\nIn 1875 Buck went to New York City to assist Theodore Thomas as conductor of orchestral concerts, and from 1877 to 1902 was organist at Holy Trinity Church in Brooklyn. By this time he had become well known as a composer. His compositions included church music, a number of cantatas (\"Columbus\" (1876), \"Golden Legend\" (1880), \"The Light of Asia\" (1886), etc.), an unperformed grand opera \"Serâpis\", a comic opera \"Deseret\" (1880, survives only in fragments), a symphonic overture \"Marmion\", a symphony in E flat, and other orchestral and vocal works.\n\nBuck also taught private music lessons throughout his career. Among his notable pupils were Paul Ambrose, C. B. Hawley, William Howland, Daniel Protheroe, Harry Rowe Shelley, James Francis Cooke, and Charles Sanford Skilton. \n\n"}
{"id": "2126833", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126833", "title": "Pink Turns Blue", "text": "Pink Turns Blue\n\nPink Turns Blue are a post-punk band from Berlin, Germany. Formed in 1985, they were part of the first generation of gothic rock in Germany, and released their first LP, \"If Two Worlds Kiss\" with a sound reminiscent of new wave with very dark undertones and use of synthesizers, and went to become part of the developing sub-genre of dark wave.\n\nThe band originally was a duo consisting of Thomas Elbern (vocals and guitars), Mic Jogwer (vocals, bass and keyboards) and a drum machine.\n\nIn 1985, Elbern was part of an NDW-ensemble called Seltsame Zustände but wanted to form a new band in Cologne and was looking for musicians via an ad. The music student Mic Jogwer answered, and they had several small appearances around Cologne under the name Pink Turns Blue (named after the Hüsker Dü song \"Pink Turns to Blue\"). Musically they were oriented towards post-punk bands like early The Cure, The Chameleons or The Sound. In early 1986, art student and drummer Marcus Giltjes joined the band. The trio won a 'new talent award' from Germany’s biggest radio station WDR which included as a prize a studio session with producer and radio host Volkmar Kramarz.\n\nIn June 1987, Mic Jogwer switched from bass to guitar and Ruebi Walter, who joined the band in 1986 as a keyboard player, moved to bass.\n\nIn August the band were signed by the newly found record label Fun Factory! The band recorded a few new songs and remixed existing material from 1986 for their debut album \"If Two Worlds Kiss\", released in October 1987.\n\nFrom October 1987 to March 1988, the band toured and the song \"Walking On Both Sides\" got them TV appearances and was played on the radio. They were invited to tour with the controversial Yugoslavian band Laibach, and Jogwer became friends with their soundman Janez Križaj. Križaj invited Pink Turns Blue to record their second album in Ljubljana. To pay for the recordings, the band smuggled Western studio equipment across the border.\n\nIn August 1988, the single \"Touch The Skies\" was released, and Pink Turns Blue played their first concerts in England, France, Switzerland and the Netherlands. In October, their second album \"Meta\" was released which carried the keyboard heavy The Cure sound to extremes and which sold 2,300 units within 8 weeks. As second single, \"Your Master Is Calling\", was released which got them TV appearance in Tele 5, was on rotation of many radio stations and is their most popular song to date with more than 2.4 million YouTube views.\n\nThe third album \"Eremite\" also was recorded with Janez Križaj in Ljubljana and was finished in August 1989. However, their record label Fun Factory got into financial difficulties and Pink Turns Blue switched to the Rough Trade Records sub-label Our Choice, which released the album in April 1990. \"Michelle\" was remixed in Manchester and released in October as a single. Early 1990, Ruebi Walter’s younger brother Reinhold joined on keyboards, and drummer Marcus Giltjes left the band.\n\nThe fourth studio album, \"Aerdt\" (Art+Earth), was recorded between January and February 1991 in Ljubljana by Mic Jogwer and Ruebi Walter as a duo. A drum machine was used. The album was released in August. The band performed the songs live with a conventional setup supported a hired drummer.\n\nIn spring 1991, after finishing the album \"Aerdt,\" Mic Jogwer and Ruebi Walter moved to London. The song \"Seven Years\" from \"Aerdt\" was re-recorded in a dance version and released as a single in September. In early 1992, two more dance oriented singles followed: \"Overloaded\" and \"Star\".\n\nIn May 1992 Pink Turns Blue recorded their fifth album, \"Sonic Dust\", with their new English drummer Louis Pavlou, and it was released in August.\n\nIn December 1992, Pink Turns Blue recorded their sixth album, \"Perfect Sex\", with David M. Allen, the producer of The Cure and Sisters Of Mercy. It was released after some delay in 1994. Louis Pavlou left the band to join The Cure to record \"Wild Mood Swings\".\n\nIn November 1994, the unplugged album \"Muzak\" was released which was recorded by Mic Jogwer and his sound engineer colleague Marc Williams in his London flat. It contains a selection of Pink Turns Blue songs performed with acoustic instruments.\n\nIn 1995, Pink Turns Blue disbanded. Mic Jogwer later remarked that with the move to London, the band lost its musical orientation and spread itself too thin. Mic Jogwer made a career in the music and media industry producing CD ROMs and websites. \n\nIn April 2001, Mic Jogwer produced three songs with Violetta Superstar, the band of Brigid Anderson which was released in October 2001 on a compilation CD (\"Die fiesen Diven\"). The two formed an electronic duo called \"Orden\" and started to write songs together and recorded some Demos.\n\nEarly 2003, Thomas Görnert, the manager of the Wave-Gotik-Treffen in Leipzig, requested a performance of Orden and he addressed Mic Jogwer’s band Pink Turns Blue. Jogwer and Andersen persuaded Thomas Elbern, Reini Walter and Louis Pavlou into a one-off Re-Union show and Pink Turns Blue performed at the Wave-Gotik-Treffen in June 2003. Following this, the band reformed and played as headliners at M'era Luna 2004.\n\nThe restart was announced in combination with a greatest hits album called \"Re-Union\".\n\nThe seventh studio album \"Phoenix\" was recorded in Berlin in winter 2004/2005, mixed by Janez Križaj in Ljubljana and released in April 2005. The album received 'album of the months awards' in three music magazines (Sonic Seducer, Orkus, Zillo) and spent eight weeks on chart position 3 in the German Alternative Charts.\n\nThe eighth album, \"Ghost\", which came about in the same setting in fall/winter 2006/2007 followed in May 2007. The release was presented at the Wave-Gotik-Treffen 2007 and again got 'album of the month awards', made it to chart position 37 of the annual German Alternative Charts. \n\nIn November 2009 the band recorded their ninth album \"Storm\" with the singles \"Storm Rider\" and \"Run From Me\" which made it to chart position 2 in the German Alternative Charts. Storm also got critical acclaim from the mainstream press (laut.de) and brought international attention and festival invitations.\n\nIn April 2016 Pink Turns Blue released their tenth studio album \"The AERDT – Untold Stories\" with their Club EP staying on chart position 3 for eight consecutive weeks in the German Alternative Charts. With the some success on the alternative chart in combination with placements and attention on the Internet as on Apple Music, Spotify, YouTube, Facebook and Last FM the band has since played at various alternative music clubs and festivals in Europe and worldwide.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2126839", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126839", "title": "Guardian Fiction Prize", "text": "Guardian Fiction Prize\n\nThe Guardian Fiction Prize was a literary award sponsored by \"The Guardian\" newspaper. Founded in 1965, it recognized one fiction book per year written by a British or Commonwealth writer and published in the United Kingdom. The award ran for 33 years before being terminated.\n\nIn 1999, the \"Guardian\" replaced the Fiction Prize with the \"Guardian\" First Book Award, for début works of both fiction and non-fiction, which was discontinued in 2016, with the 2015 awards being the last.\n\n"}
{"id": "2126842", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126842", "title": "Akido", "text": "Akido\n\nKim Gaboury better known by his pseudonym Akido (stylized as aKido) is a Canadian electronic rock musician and composer based in Montreal, Quebec. Gaboury assembles a band for live performances, but records without them in the studio.\n\nAs a young man Gaboury played guitar for the band Zolof.\n\nIn 2004, calling himself Akido, he released a seven-track instrumental album; he also released a song, \"Les Humains\", which was later the basis for of an animated music video created by Felix Lajeunesse and Paul Raphaël. Another 2004 release, \"Playtime\", was played regularly on campus and community radio stations that year.\n\nIn September 2007, according to The R3-30, the aKido song \"Dancing in Chains\" was the third-most popular indie song in Canada.\n\nGaboury joined Michel Cusson, Térez Montcalm and Luck Mervil to form the Cafe Elektric collective; the group performed at the 2009 Francofolies festival.\n\nAKido's album \"Gamechanger\", released on the Nordique label in August 2010, was number 13 on the !earshot Top 20 Electronic chart for 2010. In January 2011, \"Gamechanger\" was nominated for the Electronica Album category for The 10th Annual Independent Music Awards, and in October 2011, nominated for the \"Album électronique de l'année\" at l'ADISQ.\n\nIn 2012 Akido's recording \"Undark\" received regular airplay on campus and community radio in the Montreal area.\n\nIn March 2014, Kim was nominated at the 2nd Canadian Screen Awards in the Canadian Screen Award for Best Original Score category for the movie Maïna.\n\nAKido collaborated with electronic music producer Pascal Asselin, known as Millimetrik, to create the 2016 album \"Fog Dreams\".\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2126851", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126851", "title": "Hot Wired Monstertrux", "text": "Hot Wired Monstertrux\n\nHot Wired Monstertrux is a compilation CD released in 1993 by EastWest Records, showcasing various artists performing Industrial music.\n\nThe album was one of the first mainstream compilations to feature solely industrial-genre music.\n\n"}
{"id": "2126854", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126854", "title": "Moving-knife procedure", "text": "Moving-knife procedure\n\nIn the mathematics of social science, and especially game theory, a moving-knife procedure is a type of solution to the fair division problem. The canonical example is the division of a cake using a knife.\n\nThe simplest example is a moving-knife equivalent of the I cut, you choose scheme, first described by A.K.Austin as a prelude to his own procedure: \n(This procedure is not necessarily efficient.)\n\nGeneralizing this scheme to more than two players cannot be done by a discrete procedure without sacrificing envy-freeness.\n\nExamples of moving-knife procedures include\n\n"}
{"id": "2126855", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126855", "title": "Virtual IP address", "text": "Virtual IP address\n\nA virtual IP address (VIP or VIPA) is an IP address that doesn't correspond to an actual physical network interface. Uses for VIPs include network address translation (especially, one-to-many NAT), fault-tolerance, and mobility.\n\nFor one-to-many NAT, a VIP address is advertised from the NAT device (often a router), and incoming data packets destined to that VIP address are routed to different actual IP addresses (with address translation). These VIP addresses have several variations and implementation scenarios, including Common Address Redundancy Protocol (CARP) and Proxy ARP. In addition, if there are multiple actual IP addresses, load balancing can be performed as part of NAT.\n\nVIP addresses are also used for connection redundancy by providing alternative fail-over options for one machine. For this to work, the host has to run an interior gateway protocol like Open Shortest Path First (OSPF), and appear as a router to the rest of the network. It advertises virtual links connected via itself to all of its actual network interfaces. If one network interface fails, normal OSPF topology reconvergence will cause traffic to be sent via another interface.\n\nA VIP address can be used to provide nearly unlimited mobility. For example, if an application has an IP address on a physical subnet, that application can be moved only to a host on that same subnet. VIP addresses can be advertised on their own subnet, so its application can be moved anywhere on the reachable network without changing addresses.\n\n"}
{"id": "2126856", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126856", "title": "Emissary (hydraulics)", "text": "Emissary (hydraulics)\n\nAn emissary (Latin \"emissarium\", from \"ex\" and \"mittere\", to send out) is a channel, natural or artificial, by which an outlet is formed to carry off any stagnant body of water. Such channels may be either open or underground; but the most remarkable works of the kind are of the latter description, as they carry off the waters of lakes surrounded by hills.\n\nIn ancient Greece, the most remarkable examples are the subterranean channels that carry off the waters of Lake Copais into the Cephisus, which were partly natural and partly artificial; and those built about 480 BC by Phaeax at Agrigentum in Sicily to drain the city: they were admired for their sheer size, although the workmanship was crude.\n\nThe ancient Romans excelled in the construction of emissaries, as in all their hydraulic works, and remains are extant showing that lakes Trasimeno, Albano and Nemi were all drained by means of emissaries. The case of Lake Fucino is remarkable in two ways: the attempt to drain it was one of the rare failures of Roman engineering, and the emissary is now completely above ground and open to inspection. Julius Caesar is said to have first conceived the idea of this stupendous undertaking (Suet. Jul. 44); with the tunnels that bring his name, Claudius inaugurated what was to have been a complete drainage scheme (Tac. Ann. xii.57), but the water level dropped by just 4 meters and stabilized, leaving the lake very much there. Hadrian tried it again, but failed; and it was not until 1878 that Lake Fucino was finally drained.\n\nThe need for emissaries did not cease with Antiquity, of course, and modern examples abound.\n\n\"The initial text of this article was an abridgment from Smith's Dictionary of Greek and Roman Antiquities (1875 edition, public domain).\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2126858", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126858", "title": "Gérard Blitz", "text": "Gérard Blitz\n\nGérard Blitz may refer to:\n"}
{"id": "2126861", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126861", "title": "AGM-83 Bulldog", "text": "AGM-83 Bulldog\n\nThe AGM-83 Bulldog was a missile produced by the United States.\n\nThe missile had its origins in the AGM-12 Bullpup. The missile used a manual guidance system which required the launching aircraft to continue flying towards the target throughout the missile flight time, making it highly vulnerable to counterattack. The U.S. Navy and Air Force requested a pilot-independent guidance system for the Bullpup which would let the launching aircraft turn away after firing.\n\nIn 1970, Texas Instruments was given a Navy contract to create a laser guidance system for the Bullpup. The new missile was designated AGM-83 Bulldog; it was developed in cooperation with the Naval Weapons Center (NWC). The Bulldog was heavily based on the AGM-12B Bullpup A, but used a new 113 kg (250 lb) MK 19 blast-fragmentation warhead. It homed in on the reflection of a laser beam which was projected onto the target by ground troops.\n\nFiring trials of the AGM-83A took place in 1971–1972, with successful results. The Navy planned to get the Bulldog into service by 1974. A version for ground handling training known as the ATM-83A was also planned. However, in 1972 it was decided that the Navy should instead procure a laser-guided version of the Air Force's AGM-65 Maverick, the AGM-65C—which itself was later cancelled in favour of the AGM-65E.\n\n"}
{"id": "2126864", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126864", "title": "Alpheus Spring Packard", "text": "Alpheus Spring Packard\n\nAlpheus Spring Packard, Jr., LL.D. (February 19, 1839 – February 14, 1905) was an American entomologist and palaeontologist. He described over 500 new animal species – especially butterflies and moths – and was one of the founders of \"The American Naturalist\".\n\nHe was the son of Alpheus Spring Packard, Sr. (1798–1884) and the brother of William Alfred Packard. He was born in Brunswick, Maine and was Professor of Zoology and Geology at Brown University in Providence, Rhode Island from 1878 until his death. He was a vocal proponent of Neo-Lamarckism during the eclipse of Darwinism.\n\nHis chief work was the classification and anatomy of arthropods, and contributions to economic entomology, zoogeography, and the phylogeny and metamorphoses of insects. Packard was appointed to the United States Entomological Commission in 1877 where he served with Charles Valentine Riley and Cyrus Thomas. He wrote school textbooks, such as \"Zoölogy for High Schools and Colleges\" (eleventh edition, 1904). His \"Monograph of the Bombycine Moths of North America\" was published in three parts (1895, 1905, 1915, edited by T. D. A. Cockerell).\n\nHe died on February 14, 1905.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2126866", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126866", "title": "Mapanas", "text": "Mapanas\n\n', officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nMapanas is politically subdivided into 13 barangays.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2126867", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126867", "title": "Scott Mills (radio show)", "text": "Scott Mills (radio show)\n\nScott Mills is a Sony Radio Academy Award-winning radio show, broadcast Monday – Thursday afternoons on BBC Radio 1 from 1–4 pm. On Fridays, Mills hosts \"The Official Chart\" and \"Radio 1's Dance Anthems\" from 4-7pm. The show originally aired from 4–7 pm from 7 June 2004 until 30 March 2012. It is hosted by Scott Mills, with contributions from Chris Stark. Previous contributors have included Mark Chapman, Laura Sayers, and Beccy Huxtable, the last of whom left the show on 18 January 2013.\n\nScott Mills joined Radio 1 on 12 October 1998, hosting the early breakfast show between 4–6:30am. On his fourth day on the job, he was asked to substitute for Zoe Ball on the Radio 1 Breakfast Show at the last minute, and he has been the regular cover ever since, continuing for Sara Cox, Chris Moyles, Nick Grimshaw and Greg James. In January 2004, he was moved from early breakfast to the 1-3pm slot at weekends. In May 2004 Mills returned to weekday-afternoon programming as a temporary replacement for Cox, who was on maternity leave. When Cox decided not to return to afternoons Mills became permanent host in the drive-time slot with Cox's former co-host, Mark \"Chappers\" Chapman. The show originally aired from 3–5:45pm, moving to a later 4-7pm slot in a schedule reorganisation later in 2004. Mills remained here, with producer Emlynn Dodd until March 2012.\n\nOn 25 July 2008, a special edition of the show was broadcast live from Barry Island in South Wales as part of Radio 1's summer events. The special broadcast was dedicated to a regular feature on the show (called \"Barryoke\"), during which listeners named Barry ring in to cover a song and change the lyrics to include their name. Barry Chuckle of the Chuckle Brothers recorded a special edition of \"Barryoke\" for the Barry Island show, changing the lyrics of Jay-Z's \"99 Problems\" from \"I got 99 problems but a bitch ain't one\" to \"I got 99 problems but a Barry ain't one\".\n\nOn 28 February 2012 it was announced that the show would be moved to the 1–4pm time slot, with Greg James replacing him in the drivetime show from 2 April.\n\nFor Christmas 2012, Scott and team set themselves a challenge to make the perfect Christmas single, one that would stand the test of time and still be good in 20 years. He enlisted the help of Frisky & Mannish, as well as Chris and Beccy, and created \"Scott Mills & His Pigs in Blankets—The Perfect Christmas Single (Frankinsensational)\", which is available as a free download on the Radio 1 website. It has been downloaded more than 170,000 times. There was also a BBC Radio 1's Stories documentary made about the making of the song.\n\nBeginning January 2013, the Official Chart Update was incorporated into Mills' Wednesday show, running from 3:30 to 4 pm. This was initially cohosted with Jameela Jamil, and then Clara Amfo. Following the move of the chart to Fridays in June 2015, The Official Chart Update now airs on Mondays at 4pm during Nick Grimshaw's drivetime show (4pm-7pm).\n\nIn May 2014, Scott decided he wanted to get involved in the 2014 FIFA World Cup by making a football song better than the official World Cup song by Pitbull, Jennifer Lopez and Claudia Leitte. To do this, he enlisted the help of Australian pop rock band 5 Seconds of Summer, and Scott performed a rap on the song. \"Hearts Upon Our Sleeve (Feat. Scott Mills)\" premiered on Monday 2 June 2014, and was available for a short time as a free download at the Radio 1 website. The song gained airplay abroad, in both Australia and the United States of America, albeit without recognition for Mills. Former co-host and sports reader Chappers returned on 30 May 2014 under the guise of \"90s music expert\" to judge Scott's single, and promote the 2014 FIFA World Cup coverage on the BBC.\n\nOn 14–15 March 2017, Mills and Stark took part in a 24 Hour LOLathon for Comic Relief. This 24-hour broadcast, which began on Tuesday 14 March at 4pm (after Scott's regular show aired from 1-4pm) involved Scott and Chris staying on air for 24 hours, and had to tell a specified number of jokes in each link. They were joined by the regular host of each show and a number of other guests including Russell Brand, Harry Hill and Russell Kane. In total, this raised £275,263.\n\nFollowing changes to Radio 1's weekend schedule in March 2018, Maya Jama joined the team as a regular guest co-host on Fridays for a short period. From June 2018, the show only runs 4 days a week (Monday to Thursday) while Scott Mills hosts the official chart on Friday (4-7pm).\n\nOn March 30, 2020, the show (and Clara Amfo's show) was temporarily changed to 11am- 3pm for the indefinite future due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The decision was made to reduce the number of people in the Radio 1 Studios. The new show schedule included a 15 minute break at 12:45pm for Newsbeat. Chris Stark consequently co- hosted from his home. During late March to early April, Scott Mills and Chris Stark took over the Radio 1 Breakfast Show whilst regular host Greg James was on holiday (at home). Consequently, the regular show was put on hold.\n\nThe show contains a mix of music, talk and features. Scott and Chris share stories from their lives, prompting responses from listeners on text, Twitter and on the phone, with Scott often talking to listeners with similar experiences. Often listeners themselves will share their own stories and dilemmas prompting further discussion – a large portion of the show is listener generated. Sometimes strange experiences can lead to Scott or Chris going out to investigate, and pulling some stunt which is played out on air. They also discuss amusing or strange things they have seen, which often become a theme in future shows, \"a thing\". Prank phone calls are also a staple of the show, as are games with other Radio 1 presenters. As of late-2017, the last half-hour of the show from 3:30 is dedicated to new pop music and Radio 1's Greatest Hits, with minimal talking from Mills and Stark. The show in general has become noticeably more music-heavy over the years, especially from 2017 onwards.\n\nThe show regularly tops the Audience Appreciation Index, which ranks the most popular shows on Radio 1. Mills is also on the Popjustice Readers Poll as being the Best DJ on the Radio, coming fourth in 2014, first in 2013, first in 2012, first in 2011, first in 2010, and first in 2008.\n\nThe show largely follows a zoo format, featuring regular contributor Chris Stark. Stark was originally introduced as Scott's friend, and began to appear regularly in 2011 with features such as \"24 Years at the Tap End\". He became a permanent team member in April 2012.\n\nMaya Jama was part of the team on Fridays from 23 February 2018 to 15 June 2018, leaving when the show was replaced by The Official Chart on Fridays. She currently presents solo on Friday and Saturday mornings.\n\nThe show was previously produced by Emlyn Dodd (known as \"The One That Doesn't Speak\" due to his non-vocal role on the show). Dodd previously worked for \"Top of the Pops\", \"The Official Chart\" and \"The Radio 1 Breakfast Show\" with Zoë Ball and Sara Cox. It was announced in January 2013 that Dodd was to leave the show and the BBC in February 2013. His final show aired on 22 February 2013.\n\nPrevious contributors include sports reader Mark Chapman (known as \"Chappers\"), who had worked with previous occupant of the drivetime slot Sara Cox before joining Mills as a team member. He became famous for his Annual Wimbledon Men's Semis joke, which still happens on the day of the Men's Semis even after his departure. Chapman left the show and the station on Christmas Eve 2009 to pursue work with BBC Sport. on Friday, 30 May 2014, for a guest appearance as a \"90s Music Expert\" and to advertise the World Cup on the BBC.\n\nLaura Sayers was the broadcast assistant, and then assistant producer of the show from 2004 to 2008, and was responsible for features such as \"Laura's Diary\" and \"One Night with Laura\".\n\nMills was also joined by assistant producer Beccy Huxtable. She became a vocal part of the team, participating in games and features such as \"Beccy's Classifieds\" and \"What's Beccy's Forte?\". She replaced original assistant producer Laura Sayers. Beccy left the show on 18 January 2013, after being diagnosed with MS; however, she was still referenced and occasionally made on-air appearances in the months following her departure.\n\nIn February 2013, as a result of Dodd and Huxtable's departures, a change in the production team ensued. Cara O'Brien took up the post of Producer and Chris Sawyer took up the Assistant Producer role. Sawyer also read out the 'Real or No Real' facts when Chris Smith was unavailable. O'Brien and Sawyer occasionally contribute on air, but are usually just referenced by Scott and heard in the background. O'Brien left her role on the show in 2014 and was replaced by Will Foster. Foster now works on the Radio 1 Breakfast Show and Mark Lockett, formerly of Absolute Radio, now produces the show along with Tom Whiter as assistant producer.\n\nOther former contributors include 'The Posh Radio 4 Lady' (Kathy Clugston), who reads listeners' emails in \"Dear Scott\", and Greg James, Charlie Sloth, Alice Levine and Danny Howard who come in to play 'Real or No Real'.\n\nRecurring features on the programme include:\n\nDuring the programme, \"Scott Mills Points\" were awarded by Mills to those who contacted the show (by telephone, SMS or Twitter) with an amusing, helpful or positive response. Scott Mills points came into existence in 2010, although they are now rarely referenced.\n\nThere are also many running gags made by Scott and Chris, including shouting \"WHOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO\" when an out of target or old fashioned reference is made (a take on an old Mark and Lard catchphrase), and saying \"Hello (name), its nice to see you sober\" as a greeting, quoting an old Family Fortunes episode where the host greets a contestant in that way. Scott will also say \"Love you bye!\" to all callers to the show, often prompting an awkward response, or more often, the caller declaring their love back. Other former catchphrases include \"Alright treacle\", \"Oy oy saveloy!\" and \"Its only bley Friday!\".\n\n\nBBC Radio 1 was criticised by Ofcom in 2006 for what they said was \"serious misjudgement\" over a prank call on the programme. The regulator said that the call was \"overtly aggressive\" and \"clearly unsuitable for broadcast\". The woman who was the recipient of the call was told to \"shut the fuck up\", and her child called a \"little shit\" (although those words were bleeped out when the call was played on-air).\n\nIn 2008, Ofcom and the BBC received complaints about \"Badly Bleeped TV\", a feature where words were bleeped from TV or radio clips and the co-presenters are asked to guess what they are. Ofcom ruled this a breach of broadcasting regulations, and the feature was dropped from the show. It returned upon the show's move to the early-afternoon time slot as part of \"Oh, What's Occurring\".\n\nIn February 2006, a daily podcast of the show, \"Scott Mills Daily\", became available for download from the BBC as part of its downloads trial. The podcast varies in length, depending on the amount of suitable material from the show available each day, but is usually around 30 minutes long. The podcast used to be around 40 minutes long, but due to Mills playing an increased amount of music, the length of the podcasts has decreased.\n\nIt is intended to contain the highlights of the programme (usually features, guests and talk). Due to copyright issues, the podcast does not contain music played on the show. A comprehensive archive of these podcasts are available on the Unofficial Mills podcast archive. \"Scott Mills Daily\" has done well in the UK iTunes Store chart (#13 in most-downloaded podcasts). Early figures from the BBC had shown it had been downloaded 330,471 times; during a week in December 2006, \"The Sun\" reported that \"Scott Mills Daily\" had been downloaded 535,051 times. In October 2014, the BBC announced that The Scott Mills Daily has been downloaded 53.4 million times in the UK since it launched in 2006. It is the third most popular BBC podcast after Radio 4's \"Friday Night Comedy\" and \"The Archers\".\n"}
{"id": "2126868", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126868", "title": "Mondragon, Northern Samar", "text": "Mondragon, Northern Samar\n\n', officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nMondragon is politically subdivided into 24 barangays.\n"}
{"id": "2126869", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126869", "title": "Palapag", "text": "Palapag\n\n', officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nIt is located in the northernmost part of Samar Island. \n\nThe name Palapag, according to locals is derived from the word “\"Palpag\"” (in the Waray-Waray language it means ‘pounding a post using a wooden stick’ or pulping the bark of a bakhao). The first group of Spaniards who came to Palapag, as they didn’t know the name of the place, they asked in Spanish language to a group of people pulping the bark of a bakhao tree about the name of the place. They thought that they were asked what they were doing, so they answered in vernacular language “\"nagpapalpag\"”, which means pulping the bark of a tree. From that time on, the place was called Palpag by the Spaniards.\n\nPalapag is bounded on the north by the vast Pacific Ocean, on the east by the municipality of Mapanas, on the west by the municipality of Laoang and on the south by the municipality of Catubig. The town center is located in the north-eastern part of the municipality. Its physical features are characterized by mountainous part on the east and a relatively plain on the north-western side of the municipality. Palapag has a total land area of .\n\nPalapag is subdivided into 32 barangays.\n\nThe climate falls under Type 2, no distinct dry season with a very pronounced rainy season, maximum rain period generally occur in December and January. It has an average annual rainfall of per year with an average annual temperature of . The warmest month mean temperature is .\n\nThis climate type in Palapag plays an important rule to its agricultural economy. Although the agricultural land area is wide enough for the farmers, mostly the cultivation is being limited by the excessive rainfall and the regular sweeping of the typhoon on Samar Islands.\n\nIn the southernmost part of Samar lies the town of what is now Guiuan. From there the first wave of settlers of what is now Palapag came consisted of ten families and settled first on what is now Mapno, a coastal Barangay. The leader of these settlers named Tinadyao founded the town. The place where the town located was called by the natives as \"patag\" which means plain. Later on, another wave of settlers came also from Eastern Samar joined the first settlers. The leader of this second wave of settlers was Macatalo Macapongo. Historian Otley Beyer said that the “dawn man”, the aborigines of the Philippines, existed 250,000 years ago, although the callao man fossils have been dated as 65,000 years ago – in both cases, they are much earlier than the cro magnun man of Europe. Darwin believes that life started in the ocean, so, it possible that the Pacific Ocean have bred life into the shores of Samar million years ago, but as to what year those life forms evolved into human form could still be a subject of scientific and archaeological researches, but the possibility that it is earlier than 250,000 years ago is very strong. The possibility that Lawan (estimated to be at the present Palapag - Laoang - Catubig area) in Samar Island in an important part of the Polynesian civilization was confirmed somehow by a finding in an Australian study that the Pacific Island Philippines could be the homeland of Polynesians in the pacific oceans. The migration of the Filipinos to different pacific islands who are identified today as Polynesians and inwards into the Philippine islands like in Tondo happened slowly in thousand years and is evidenced by an existence of an ancient shipping industry based in Palapag which was later converted into the shipping repair stations of the Galeon Trade and is identified by some historians as the so called \"Lakanate of Lawan\" once headed by Datu Iberein and was mentioned by Henry Scott in his writings, particularly in the \"Bingi of Lawan\".\n\nOn the year 1585, during the reign of Spanish Governor-General Don Santiago De Vera, the Spaniards established Palapag as pueblo and named it Palpag. Later on, it was renamed as Palapag, the present name of the town.\n\nThe responsibility of bringing the Gospel on the Island of Samar was tasked to Fathers Francisco Otaco, Bartolome Martes and Brother Domingo Alonso on October 15, 1596. They first established their mission residence in Tinago (Tarangnan) on the western coast of Samar. At that time, Tinago was one of the most ancient and most populated villages upon the arrival of the Jesuits. On 1598, a fine church was built in Tinago and six other smaller ones were constructed near the mission residence.\n\nWhen the people of Palapag heard and learned about the wonderful things that happened in Tinago and on the entire western coast of Samar, they started to appeal with the missionaries to establish a mission residence in their villages. Because of this appeal, the Jesuits sent a small group of missionaries to Palapag.\n\nThe Royal Port of Palapag and the Manila Galleons \nThe people of Palapag or Ibabao and the missionaries played an all-important role in sheltering and securing the richly laden Manila galleons returning from Acapulco, Mexico.\n\nThe first trans-Pacific voyage of galleon occurred on 1565. For some two hundred and fifty years, the treasure laden vessels sailed almost annually in the Pacific Ocean contended with the disease, scurvy, beriberi, hunger, sea storms, and Dutch and English piracy. It was vital both economically and spiritually to the Spanish outpost.\nThe galleon shipped spices to Mexico from Manila and upon returning from America, the vessels were loaded with wealth doubled when it left Manila.\n\nThroughout the period of galleon trade, Palapag Port harbored these richly laden ships from Moro and Dutch pursuits. Sometimes these vessels sought refuge from unfavorable winds or seas or merely drop their anchor for water, food or fuel then continue their voyage though the San Bernardino Strait.\n\nThese ports were located off the coast of Palapag. The first one was on the outskirts called Cajayagan and the other one the so-called inner ports which were more secure than the first was called Calomotan. From there, the galleon continued their voyage passing the villages of Catarman and Bobon and made a stopover in the island of Biri, where they either watched the tide or unload the parcel of their cargo then proceeded to the Strait of San Bernardino.\n\nBy 17th Century, Spanish colonist numbered only a few thousand throughout the Philippines had little incentives to settle and carve out the land in the provinces. On the Island of Samar, the land and people were distributed among the Spanish colonists under the encomienda system. A Spanish who was trusted with encomienda was called encomendero. He was tasked to collect tributes, recruit abled-bodied males for public services or polo and ensure the physical and spiritual well-being of the inhabitants. But because of abuses, the system was abolished.\n\nIn order to enhance their administration on the colony, the Spaniards did not abolish the old barangays and merged it into towns called pueblos and the groups of pueblos were called alcadia or districts headed by alcalde mayor.\n\nWhen the Jesuits were expelled in Samar in 1768, there were sixteen pueblos had already established but only fifteen pueblos had Jesuit parish priest resident and were already divided into three residences, the east, north and the west coasts. The center of the north-east coasts referred to as Ibabao, was Palapag, while for the west coast was Catbalogan and at the same time the capital of Samar Island. Being the capital, it was there where the provincial government personnel numbering no more than three or four Spaniards including the governor. His prime duty was to collect revenues, pay the accounts and balance the books. He had executives, judicial and legislative functions.\n\nAs of 1830, a royal order was issued substituting civilian governor by a military governor. He assumed office on 1830 as the first military governor of Samar and the number of government personnel was increased. For administrative purposes, he suggested the division of Samar into three administrative districts, the west, north and the east coasts. It was approved on 1867 in Manila and in the Council of Administration in Madrid, however it was not realized. By 1890, the Franciscans divided Samar into three vicariates, the west, north and east coasts.\n\nOn the municipal level, the pueblo was headed by a Gobernadorcillo elected annually. He was both the judicial and executive officer, the general supervisor and ensure of public order, the main collector of tributes and in charge of the repair and maintenance of public buildings and roads. In order to perform his task efficiently he had to work closely with the priest for support and visto bueno of documents. His subordinates were called cabeza de barangay who was in charge of collecting tributes and other taxes of each family. Aside from them, there were also three superintendents and assistants of fields, livestock, police and lieutenants (tenientes) and police for every visita and barrio. With the increased of pueblo officials the role of the priest was reduced.\n\nThe municipality is not directly connected by land to other regions of the Philippine archipelago; it still relies on the wharfs provided by the Barangay’s near coastal areas (Barangay Sumoroy and Barangay Pangpang) through motorized boats on going to and from the town. It has a small port in Barangay Mapno but currently idle, no facilities yet provided for the port users.\n\nElementary:\n\nSecondary:\n\nTertiary:\n\n"}
{"id": "2126872", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126872", "title": "Pambujan", "text": "Pambujan\n\n', officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\nIt is a coastal town with an area of 18,650 hectares. It is a town with notable qualities and resources. It boasts a 16th-century Roman Catholic church, a scenic islet named Caohagan, baseball players who won international tournaments, professionals and achievers, a socio-cultural activity held every first full moon of the year (known as Kadayaw Festival), and a sports arena which has been the venue for various municipal, provincial and regional sports gatherings.\n\nThe municipality has a number of daycare centers in each barangay, two private and one public preparatory schools, a number of primary and elementary schools and two secondary schools. It is accessible to Region VIII’s premiere state university- the University of Eastern Philippines- as well as other private colleges in Catarman, the capital town of Northern Samar.\n\nIt has earned provincial and regional citations as Child-Friendly municipality. \n\nPambujan is in the heart of the second district of Northern Samar. \n\nPambujan has a contiguous territory of , which extends into the hinterlands of Northern Samar across a number of rivers, lakes, brooks and mountains. The most notable of these physical features is Mount Cagbigajo, which once served as an observation and listening post of the Allied Intelligence Bureau Operative (1934–44) during World War II.\n\nPambujan town is then situated in what is now Barangay Ginulgan. Back then, the town consisted of 22 barrios covering an area of 670 square kilometers which stretched out to more than 402 kilometers span towards its western border (Samar Province).\n\nIt is also the northernmost settlement in the entire Samar Island.\n\nPambujan is politically subdivided into 26 barangays.\n\nThe name Pambujan has historically developed from the term “pambubohan” which means a place in which crabs are abundant and crabbing or catching crabs is prevalent. It originates from the ninorte-waraynon word “bubo,” which refers to “bamboo crab pots” or traditional crabbing devices used to catch said crustaceans. Real and factual story of the past traced it ages before the rediscovery of the Philippines by Fernando de Magallanes on March 16, 1521, who on this date saw the heights of Samar Island and was surprised to see that its early inhabitants - the Samareños - were having a civilization of their own and living in a well-organized independent villages called barangays (Plasencia:174). “Pambubohan,” at this date, was then one of the said well-organized independent villages. Evidently, Pambujanons named their village after“pambubohan,” a name of distinction which she got because of abundant crabs swarming in and along her rivers.\n\nPambujan was founded in Barangay Ginulgan (also referred to as Binungtoan) by our Malayan ancestors, particularly by the “second wave migrants” who arrived here from 100 AD to the 13th century (Zaide, Zaide: 29). During the onset of the Spanish Rule here in the Philippines, the Spaniards saw the fiery refusal of early Pambujanons to become subjects of the Spanish Crown. The most notable of them was “Patuding” whose fiery resistance against the conquistadores in 1674, 25 years after the famous Sumuroy Revolution in Palapag in 1649, placed him in the annals of Pambujan’s local history although he vanished into the limbo of unrecorded heroic exploits and oblivion.\n\nThe frequent raids of Moro pirates (1752–1754) also took its toll against the early Pambujanons because some of them, after a ferocious bloodletting for freedom’s sake against the Spanish Colonial Regime, eventually succumbed and allowed themselves to Christianity, adopted Spanish surnames and became subjects to the Spanish Crown to spare themselves from the hands of the new adversary. Towering among them were Lucio Lovino, Capitan Josef Adonis, Gallego, brothers Jose and Domingo Catangcas, Dagohoy Siervo, Francisco Atencio, Turnino Jazmin, Urtilano Morales, Casimiro Merino, Albino Bomitivo and Felino Luna whose leadership inspired their fellow Pambujanons to bind themselves together against the pirates. Thereafter, they moved to the present site of Pambujan. It was approximately during this period that the foundations of the now existing Roman Catholic Church were laid. The subsequent events, which were characterized by the take over of the Franciscans in the religious affairs of the pueblo from the Jesuit Missionaries in 1768, triggered the completion of the church edifice. Unfortunately, it was razed and turned into ashes during the Spanish–American War. This incident, however, led the majority of Pambujanons to embrace Christianity and assume Spanish surnames in consonance with the order issued by Gov. General Narciso Claveria on Nov.21, 1849, because their Malayan surnames, like the rest of the Filipinos all over the archipelago, proved to be confusing to the Spanish authorities *(National Archives Publications: 1973). Twenty four years later, on August 4, 1863, the Vatican City declared Pambujan a full-pledged parish district.\n\nThe years 1763 and 1887 brought great earthquakes to Pambujan and made remarkable imprints by leaving huge cracks on its ground which until now can be found 2 kilometers south-west from the town’s center.\n\nMeanwhile, the Filipino-American War of 1898 found the brave men of Pambujan actively struggling for freedom led by Capitan Restituto Jazmin, Licerio Sosing, Daniel Siervo, Ponciano Marcial and Vicente Obieta. The local insurrectos devoted their efforts in manufacturing gun powders and war weaponry such as explosives and rifles patterned after the“mauser” which they had deposited in their “armoria” at So. Gunudhud in Barrio Coroconog and So. Mapanas in Barrio Ginulgan. All of these were used against the Americans by the forces of General Lukban who was then headquartered in Matuquinao.\n\nThe surrender of the “insurrectos”under Capitan Restituto Jazmin in 1903 marked the beginning of a relative peacefulness. From this period Pambujan underwent some considerable changes. However, a big fire in 1918, razed some commercial and residential buildings. It was followed by the ravages wrought by the Pacific war. Years later, reconstruction and marked achievements were realized, population rose steadily, literacy increased and agricultural productivity relatively improved.\n\nThe year 1925 was characterized by the institutionalization of local politics when two political parties were organized within its boundaries. The “KUSOG SAN KAUSWAGAN” headed by Tomas E. dela Cruz and the “TINGOG SAN KABLASANON” headed by Sixto A. Balanquit, Sr.\n\nThe years that followed, specifically during the incumbency of Mayor Ramon Siervo (1955–1963) and Atty. Alfredo dela Cruz (1963–1967), faced the clamor of the inhabitants of Lao-angan and Suba for the conversion of these barrios into towns independent from Pambujan by seeking the assistance of Congressman Eladio T. Balite, then representative of the lone district of Samar. Thus, Barrio Lao-angan became the municipality of San Roque named after the Catholic Martyr Saint Roche; while Barrio Suba became the municipality of Silvino Lubos, named after the donor of its site, former Municipal Councilor and Barrio Teniente of Suba, Mr. Silvino Lubos.\n\nIn the late 70's, Pambujan, specifically its interior barangays were affected by the Communist insurgency, affecting lives and livelihoods. It was believed to be more disastrous compared to World War II for the town. Despite that, it gained nationwide and international distinction when the so-called NALUCABAN KIDS won five national championships trophies in the Little League Baseball National Open Championships (1975, 1976, 1978, 1979 and 1980) which likewise brought it to the International Baseball tournaments. These were credited to the able management of then Municipal Mayor Manuel T. Balanquit, Sr. and Coach Nestor U. Tingzon. \n\nOn October 2008, the Sangguniang Panlalawigan of Northern Samar, presided by Vice Governor Atty. Antonio P. Lucero, declared the St. John The Baptist Church of Pambujan as a historical landmark of the Province of Northern Samar.\n\nPresidente Municipal:\n\nMunicipal Mayors:\n\nElected municipal officials (2016-present):\n\nPambujan I District\n\nPambujan II District\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2126873", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126873", "title": "Rosario, Northern Samar", "text": "Rosario, Northern Samar\n\n', officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nIt is bordered in the west by Lavezares and Victoria to the south. Its coastal area is protected as part of the Biri Larosa Protected Landscape and Seascape.\n\nRosario is politically subdivided into 11 barangays.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2126875", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126875", "title": "San Antonio, Northern Samar", "text": "San Antonio, Northern Samar\n\n', officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nIts territory is coterminous with Dalupiri Island, just off the western coast of Samar Island at the south end of the San Bernardino Strait. The island's white beaches are considered an \"undisturbed paradise\" and future \"premier tourist destination\" in the Eastern Visayas region. San Antonio is also unique, as it is the only municipality in Northern Samar which predominantly speaks Cebuano due to the influx of Boholano and Cebuano settlers in the past. There is a sizable Waray-speaking population present in the island though.\n\nDalupiri Island lies in the east central periphery of the Philippine archipelago. It is bounded by San Bernardino Strait in the north and east, Samar Sea in the south, and Capul Island in west. It is approximately 5 nautical miles from the Pacific Ocean and sits near the entrance along the Paso de Acapulco, otherwise known as San Bernardino Strait. It has long white sand beach around the island.\n\nDalupiri Island is a 2,700 hectare island of gently rolling hills, mostly of coconut vegetation and shrubbery. It is home to white beaches, caves, and the Lagbangan Lake.\n\nThe island is composed largely of low and extremely rugged hills and small lowland areas. The island is endowed with relatively rich and fertile soil that allow most crops to be cultivated, but presently it is utilized mostly for coconut plantations.\n\nThe highest point of the island is in its central southern portion with a maximum elevation of above sea level.\n\nThe island has no distinct dry or wet season but it has pronounced rainfall from October to January. The heaviest precipitation occurs in November. May is relatively the driest month.\n\nSan Antonio is composed of ten barangays (listed here with 2010 population):\n\nThe town center (poblacion) is divided into three small barangays: Poblacion Ward I, Poblacion Ward II, and Poblacion Ward III.\n\nBarangay San Nicolas, named after its patron Saint Nicolas, is home to picturesque rock formation along the coast. Barangay Rizal is home to a solar spring and cave. Barangay Pilar is the southernmost tip of the island where a fish sanctuary is located. This is the home of palatable seashells and other seafood.\n\nBarangay Burabod's major livelihood is boat-building, fishing, copra and dynamite blasting cap manufacturing.\n\nIn the early 19th century the settlers from the mainland of Samar found the island an ideal ground for fishing and bird hunting. They come to the island just to catch fish and hunt birds and go back to the mainland of Samar after a handful of catch. People from Bohol and Cebu came to the island in the second half of the 19th century and introduced a method of catching fish using net, commonly known as \"laya\". With its introduction, the name \"Manoglaya\" was born, which literally means \"mano nga paraglaya\" or \"fishermen using laya\".\n\nAs new settlers came and built new communities in the island, they called the island as \"\"Sugod-sugod\"\", a Cebuano derivative meaning \"just to start or begin\". Later, name was changed to \"Matabia\", referring to the knife-shape of the island. No one knows now why it was changed that way, neither folklores nor historical data reveal the ways and wherefore of the change of its name to Dalupiri Island.\n\nIn 1904, the Municipality of San Antonio of the province of Samar in Dalupiri Island was established. The Municipality of San Antonio named after its patron saint Anthony of Padua.\n\nSan Antonio is one of the manufacturing centers of dynamite chemicals like ammonium nitrate, used in the manufacture of blasting caps that are sold in the other provinces of Samar island. It was learned that the island has been tagged by the police as one of the areas in the manufacture of the dynamite blasting caps.\n\nChief Supt. Abner Cabalquinto, Regional VIII Police Director, disclosed that the police operatives in Northern Samar confiscated 50 bags of ammonium nitrate in the town of San Antonio. However, the suspects were able to escape and alluded arrest by the police.\n\nBecause of the prevalence of homemade dynamite, blast fishing is a perennial problem in the region. In 1994, an Italian tourist was killed and another severely injured while diving when a local fisherman dropped his dynamite on top of them. As a result, the Flying Dog Beach Resort, established in the early 1990s, decided to cease its operation.\n\nThe Dalupiri Ocean Power Plant is a proposed tidal fence generating station across the Dalupiri Passage between the islands of Dalupiri and Samar.\n\nBecause of Dalupiri Island's pristine white sand beach, Republic Act No. 9458 declared San Antonio, together with the island towns of Biri, Capul, and San Vicente, as eco-tourism zones in May 2007.\n\nWith its coral reefs, Dalupiri island is ideal for scuba diving, snorkeling, sailing, yachting, jet skiing, para-sailing and marine life observation.\n\nA cultural-tourism festival held in the town of San Antonio from the 9th to the 12th of June annually, celebrating the fishing skills of the townfolks. The festival composed of cultural performances, street dance, beauty search and exhibit complemented with “\"sugod-sugod sa plaza\"”, a nightly entertainment of music and other performances from leading local performers in the community.\n\n\nDalupiri Airport, also known as San Antonio Airport, is an airstrip in San Antonio in the Eastern Visayas region of Philippines. Its construction was approved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the Philippines on August 8, 2004. This airport is still under constructions and not yet operational to the general public, local resident and Island tourist.\n\nSan Antonio town proper Seaport the central part of the island premier gateway to the seaport of the town of Victoria. This two seaports are the busiest port connecting the Island and the mainland of Samar, providing main transport system to the island tourist and local resident.\n\nThere are also several seaport in the nearby barangay that also the gateway of the Island to the mainland land of Samar, in northern part of the island is the Vinisitahan Seaport and the western coast is the Dalupiri Seaport both to seaport in the town of Allen,Northern Samar and in the southern coast of the Island is the Burabod Seaport to the town of San Isidro, Northern Samar.\n\nThe main transportation going to the different part of the Island is the motorcycle where local called it as \"honda\" regardless of the manufacturer of the motorcycle. While going through the town proper there are several \"padyak\" as commonly called by the local residents; it is a bicycle driven cart.\n\n\nSecondary school:\n\nElementary schools:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2126880", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126880", "title": "Freddie Young", "text": "Freddie Young\n\nFrederick A. Young (9 October 1902 – 1 December 1998), often credited as F.A. Young, was a British cinematographer. He is probably best known for his work on David Lean's films \"Lawrence of Arabia\" (1962), \"Doctor Zhivago\" (1965) and \"Ryan's Daughter\" (1970), all three of which won him Academy Awards for Best Cinematography.\n\nHe was also director of photography on more than 130 films, including many other notable productions, such as \"Goodbye, Mr Chips\" (1939), \"49th Parallel\" (1941), \"Lust for Life\" (1956), \"The Inn of the Sixth Happiness\" (1958), \"Lord Jim\" (1965), \"Battle of Britain\" (1969), \"Nicholas and Alexandra\" (1971), and the James Bond film \"You Only Live Twice\" (1967). He was also the first British cinematographer to film in CinemaScope.\n\nYoung co-wrote \"The Work of the Motion Picture Cameraman,\" with Paul Petzold, published in 1972 (Focal Press, London).\n\nIn 2003, a survey conducted by the International Cinematographers Guild placed Young among the ten most influential cinematographers in history.\n\nHe was awarded The Royal Photographic Society's Centenary Medal and Honorary Fellowship (HonFRPS) in recognition of a sustained, significant contribution to the art of photography in 1996/97.\n\nIn 1984, Young directed his only film as at the age of 82, \"Arthur's Hallowed Ground\", starring Jimmy Jewel, which was made for television.\n\n"}
{"id": "2126884", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126884", "title": "San Isidro, Northern Samar", "text": "San Isidro, Northern Samar\n\n', officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nThe town borders with Victoria to the north.\n\nSan Isidro is a coastal a town in the south-western part of the Province of Northern Samar facing the Samar Sea. It is about from the capital town of Catarman and approximately north-west of Calbayog City. Its boundaries are defined by the Municipality of Victoria in the north and north-east, by the City of Calbayog in the south and southeast, the Municipality of Bobon in the east, and by Dalupiri Pass and Samar Sea in the west.\n\nSan Isidro has a total land area of , of which 9088 is commercial forest, 418 is non-commercial forest, 10754 is logged cover area and rest are classified into reproduction brush land, cogon open land, mosey forest, cultivation, plantation and marsh swamp land.\n\nThe topography of the land is characterized from plains to rolling hills and steep mountain ranges. The lowlands are along the coast but in a few sections of this area, the mountains rise from 30 meters to 61 meters high above sea level. The highest elevation is Mount Soomong, which is 522 meters above sea level. The hinterlands are criss-crossed by logging roads and most of the plateaus are already developed agricultural lands.\n\nIts rivers and creeks intersperse throughout the length and breadth of the municipality. It has ten (10) small unnavigable rivers. Majestic Mawo River traverses the eastern portion of the hinterlands finding its way at the town of Victoria before discharging into the Samar Sea. Among River has its outlet at Barangay Seven Hills, Caaguit-itan River at Barangays Alegria and Balite, San Juan River at Barangay San Juan, Palanit and Maludbalud Rivers at Barangay Palanit, Veriato River at Barangay Veriato and Caglanipao River at Barangay Caglanipao.\n\nThe Municipality does not lie along any known fault zones/lines. As to its bedrock foundations, old sediments and pyroclastics which are more stable than poorly consolidated sediments (e.g. limestone, shale or alluvial deposits) in terms of compressive strength/load bearing capacity comprise roughly 67.50% of the total municipal land area. The remaining 32.50% is composed of metamorphosed rocks, volcanic and highly crystallized rocks which are situated in areas of highest relief.\n\nMineral production consists mainly of non-metallic such as sand, gravel, earth and rocks. Enormous quantities of these materials were used for the construction of the Philippine-Japan Friendship Highway (Daang Maharlika).\n\nApproximately 10.35% of the total municipal land area is within the 0.15% slope limits. The remaining 89.65% belong to 15% and over. The low level ground classified as “A” comprised a meager 3.06% of the total land area and is located at the eastern and western sections of the municipality. Classes “B”, “C”, and “D” comprised 1.63%, 3.74% and 1.92%, respectively. The bulk of the land comprising 27.67% ranges from steeply undulating and rolling lands sloping in many directions and 61.98% classified as very steeply sloping lands.\n\nApproximately, its land uses were distributed as follows:\n\nSan Isidro is politically subdivided into 14 barangays.\nTwelve (12) of the fourteen barangays of San Isidro are coastal barangays and two (2) are interland barangays. The coastal barangays, starting from the south are Caglanipao, Veriato, Mabuhay, Palanit, San Juan, Salvacion, Alegria, Balite, Buenavista, Poblacion Sur, Poblacion Norte, and San Roque while the interior barangays are Seven Hills and Happy Valley.\n\nThe Poblacions faces the Samar Sea and comprises the town proper.\n\nThe Municipality has no distinct dry and wet seasons. The number of rainy days ranges from 12 in April and May to 26 in November or an average of 16.6 rainy days a month. On the other hand, the longest sunshine is in May, 8, 7 days and the shortest is in January, 4, 9 days, an average of 6.8 days a month.\n\n\nSan Isidro was originally part of the Municipality of Allen, Northern Samar. Its history dates back during the era of Spanish colonization, when Filipino natives were always on the run-traveling in search of an inhabited and remote place to hide and escape slavery and maltreatments of Spanish governments. The first human beings that have landed on Calagundian shores around the last quarter of the 19th century were some intrepid Bicolanos, Boholanos, Leyteños and Cebuanos pioneers. They came to the place by prodigious voyages using only the primitive boat called “velus”.\n\nLater, during this period, other groups of immigrants were lured from the nearby island provinces and Bicol regions to the coastal plains of Calagundian. These families formed the nucleus of Barrio Calagundian, a part of La Granja town (now Allen). These people were basically engaged in fishing and farming as their only main sources of livelihood. Having progressed as the years passed by, more people coming from the islands of san Antonio, Capul, San Vicente, Almagro, Tagapul-an and even as far as Masbate and other far away places inhabited to Calagundian to seek for a more greener pastures. As a barrio, the Calagundianons, though they came from different places with different views and ideas, customs and traditions, were able to establish among themselves a happy and harmonious community, and they even considered themselves a one family community. These were the uniqueness of the people of Calagundian - determined, united and organized in their pursuit of becoming a cohesive political unit.\n\nFinally, after years of political struggle for independence from its mother town; Allen, the municipality of San Isidro became one of the twenty-four municipalities now comprised by Province of Northern Samar upon enactment of Republic Act Numbered Eleven Eighty Seven (R.A. 1187) on June 20, 1954. The Poblacion, the seat of the Municipal Government, was formerly called Barrio Calagundian. The change of name came with the creation of the Municipality. The original barrios comprised by the Municipality per Republic Act No.1187 were seven, namely, Calagundian, Erenas, Caaguit-itan, Palanit, San Juan, Veriato and San Roman. These barrios were separated from the Municipality of Allen and became the nucleus of the new Municipality.\n\nAlmost five years later, on May 16, 1959, Republic Act No. 2214 was passed creating seven additional barrios for San Isidro. These were San Roque, Sabelia, Happy Valley, Acedillo, Alegria, Salvacion and Mabuhay. However, with the creation of the Municipality of Victoria on April 27, 1968, the barrios of Erenas, Acedillo and San Roman were separated from San Isidro and formed part of Victoria. Meanwhile, on January 21, 1972, the Municipal Council approved Resolution No. 02 creating Barangay Eladio T. Balite, separating the same from Barangay Alegria. Later on, the Poblacion was divided in two, thereby creating Barangay Poblacion Norte and Barangay Poblacion Sur. As of this time, San Isidro has fourteen Barangays. Yearning a separate parish from that of Allen, Northern Samar, a church decree dated October 31, 1959 made it realized.\n\nThus, the newly created parish had been given a juridical name as Parish of the Most Sacred Heart of Jesus. Its Patron Saint is Señor San Isidro de Labrador whose feast is religiously celebrated every 15th day of May. San Isidro is now 48 years old in its tranquil state as municipality and 40 years as parish with the collective efforts of the seven Municipal Mayors from the start and more than thirty Roman Catholic Priests from both Franciscan and Diocesan Order who extended moral and spiritual support to maintain the laying foundations which embraced the venerability of San Isidro.\n\nWith reference to the records of the Philippine Statistics Authority, majority of the household population of the municipality spoke Waray dialect (50.59%) mostly during their early childhood. The remaining 49.41% spoke Cebuano (46.32%), Abaknon (1.43%), and other dialects (1.66%.\n\nReligious Affiliation. Of the total 118,352 household population I 1990, Roman Catholics numbered 5,667. It comprised a large percentage, or about 85.37%. United Church of Christ in the Philippines followed with a total o,477 or 8.07%. The Iglesia ni Cristo registered third with 582 followers or about 3.17% Seventh Day Adventist ranked fourth with 230 or 11.25%. The remaining 2.16% were affiliated to Jehovah's Witnesses (0.62%), Born Again Christians (0.57%) and other religious sects (0.97%).\n\nReligious Organizations. There are quite a number of religious organizations that are active in the locality both from the Roman Catholics and other religious sects. Among them are the Knight of Columbus, the Parish Pastoral Council, the Couple's for Christ, Women's for Christ, the Franciscan Youth (YOUFRA) and many others.\n\nAmong the 10,911 persons, 15 years old and over, only 5,989 persons or about 54.89% were economically active or in the labor force, which was 1,067 persons higher than those who were not in the labor force (4,922). The majority (40.57%) of the household population 15 years old and over who were in the labor force were males. While a largest percentage (34.63%) of those who were not in the labor force were females.\n\nOf the 5,989 economically active populace (in the labor force), 5,400 (49.49%) were employed registering 4,811 higher than the unemployed (589 persons or 5.4%). The proportion of employed populace in the labor force was higher among males (38.58%) than among females (10.91%). On the other hand, the proportion of those who were unemployed was higher for females (3.41%) than males.\n\nThe municipality is located along the Daang Maharlika Highway and is a jumping board between the island towns of San Antonio and San Vicente, the City of Calbayog, and the capital town of Catarman. Because of its ferry terminal, located at Barangay Salvacion, it also becomes the gateway to Luzon.\n\nThe twelve coastal barangays can be reached by both land and sea transportation. The Daang Maharlika passes through all these barangays. While Seven Hills and Happy Valley can be reached by a barangay road passing through the barangays of Balite. Barangay Happy Valley, the most interior barangay in the whole municipality is connected with Barangay Dawo, Oquendo District, Calbayog City, passing through the hinterlands.\n\nHealth Facilities and Number of Health Personnel:\n\nLiteracy Rate: Census results of 1990 show that of the 13,217 household population 10 years old and over, 85.4 percent were literate, while only 14.6% or 1,929 illiterate. The proportion who were literate was slightly higher among males, registering a figure of 6,833 or 51.62% than females which accounted to 6,394 or 48.38%. Comparatively therefore, the literate rural population numbered 7,376 or 1,535 literates more than the urban population of 5,841.\n\nHighest Grade Completed: The largest percentage (60.81%) of the 14,610 population 7 years old and over attended or completed elementary education only. Meanwhile, the proportion who reached or completed high school posted a percentage of 22.03% or 3,219 persons. The proportion, on the other hand, that was academic degree holders accounted to 328 or 2.25% of the total household population 7 years old and over.\n\nEducational Institutions\n\n"}
{"id": "2126886", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126886", "title": "San Jose, Northern Samar", "text": "San Jose, Northern Samar\n\n', officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nIt is located at the north central part of the province, about west of Catarman, the provincial capital, and about east of Allen, where the ferry terminal is which connects the islands of Luzon, Samar, Leyte, and Mindanao via the Pan-Philippine Highway (formerly the Maharlika Highway). It is approximately north-north-east of Tacloban City, the Regional Center of the Eastern Visayas.\n\nPolitically, the municipality is bounded on the north by the Philippine Sea, on the east by the Municipality of Bobon, on the south by the Municipality of Victoria and on the west by the Municipality of Rosario.\n\nSan Jose's total land area of is generally underlain by well-bedded and moderately undulating terrain. The rock unit is probably part of the Mawo Volcanics, which is widespread in Northern Samar. The terrain is diversely oriented with inclination angles ranging from 10 degrees to 14 degrees. In the surveyed area, mangrove swamps dominate the western part of the municipality which extends to its northern coastline. In fact, more than half of the land area in the town proper, which is located at the northern coastline of the municipality are reclaimed lands from these swamplands.\n\nBeing a coastal town, it has several islets within its municipal waters off its northern coast: Cabaungon (or Cabanongan) Grande, Cabaungon Pequiño, Tandang, Pangilala, Puropangdan, Matungko, and Maghungaw. They are plentiful in fishes, crustaceans, and other marine products. These islands along the coast of San Jose are protected as part of the Biri Larosa Protected Landscape and Seascape.\n\nThe municipality is in a valley bounded on the east by the Palusong Mountain Range moving south and on the west by the Hitaasan Mountain Range. The land is generally alluvial flat and swamplands which has an elevation of less than above sea level, while going south, south easterly, the physiography abruptly rises to moderately rugged hills with a peak of . The drainage system in the area generally flows north-east towards Carangian Channel. Vegetation in this area generally consists of mangrove trees and shrubs, cogonal growth, and coconuts. The flat areas are planted with rice, corn and coconuts.\n\nThere are small flat and level areas along Barangay Dao and Barangay Geratag creeks. There are also wide coastal swamps. Most of the agricultural land areas are located along the valley between Palusong Mountain Range, near Barangay Aguadahan, and Barangay Geratag in the east, and Hitaasan Mountain Range near Barangay Bagong Sabang and Barangay Bonglas in the west.\n\nThe Carangian Channel is a marine channel along its northern shore, separating Samar Island from Cabaungon Island.\n\nThere are four large natural streams flowing through or within the municipality of San Jose: Gengarog River, Sinamangan River, Bobon River, and Nahalugan River.\n\nOff the National Highway about 10 minutes walk toward the hillside, there are the Honeybee Falls. The falls are on private property, but accessible with permission.\n\nSan Jose is politically subdivided into 16 barangays.\n\nThe Municipality of San Jose grew from a place that was then covered with bushes, shrubs, zacates, and marshes, where wild chicken, locally known as ilajas, abounded. It was then called \"carangian\", being the site where hunters assembled their trap, known as \"carang\", to catch wild chickens. In time, the word carangan was corrupted and the place began to be known as Carangian. Due to favorable economic opportunities, people migrated to the place. As the population grew, it became a barrio within the administrative jurisdiction of the Municipality of Bobon known as Carangian.\n\nWith the construction of a deep-sea port, steamers and ships from Manila and other countries began to dock in Carangian, which due to its strategic location and the presence of the well-protected deep-sea port, quickly became the main port entry of Northern Samar. As its economy boomed, the barrio aspired to become an independent municipality as early as 1932. In that year, the Governor of Samar, Pedro Arteche, conducted a plebiscite for the conversion of Barrio Carangian into a municipality. Due to the overwhelming negative votes in the Poblacion of Bobon and some other barrios, that was not realized.\n\nBefore the elections of 1949, the leaders of Carangian took advantage of a rift between President Elpidio Quirino and José Dira Avelino, President of the Senate, to separate from Bobon. A delegation was formed under the leadership of Eladio T. Balite, Representative of the first district of Samar. The delegation was dispatched to Manila to lobby for the independence of Carangian. After more than a month of going from office to office in Manila, the delegation succeeded in having the Barrio of Carangian created into the Municipality of San Jose. Eugenio Perez, Speaker of the House, was also instrumental in the creation of the new municipality. Thus, on July 25, 1949, by virtue of Executive Order No. 248 of the then President Elpidio Quirino, Carangian together with eleven other barrios became the new municipality of San Jose, named in honor of the late Jose Tagros Balite Sr, then Mayor of Bobon.\n\nThe first person to have been elected to the post of mayor of the newly created Municipality of San Jose (which at that time included now independent Municipality of Biri and some parts adjoining to form the Municipality of Rosario) is Roque H. Dato (1949–51).He was appointed as the first mayor of san jose after its creation as a municipality. He is the father of Bayani A. Dato who also assumed the post of mayor of San Jose from 1968 to 1986, and from 1988 to 1995.\n\nDon Francisco S. Evaristo, former Mayor of Bobon, was the next mayor of San Jose from 1952 to 1955. Other persons to have been elected mayor are: Agustin Pondemira (1956–67); Felipe Ballesta (appointed as OIC after Edsa revolution) (1986–88) Lazaro A. Ballesta (2001–07), and Damian Luzon Jr. (2007-16).\n\nThe current Mayor of San Jose is Clarence E. Dato.\n\nCarangian (San Jose) is home to local notable persons in politics the Carangianons are proud of, to wit:\n\nThe Port of San Jose is a reinforced concrete general purpose pier handling passengers and domestic cargoes, situated in Barangay North. The pier is long and wide with a controlling depth of alongside, with 8 rubber fenders and 9 mooring bit. Its storage facilities include an open storage of , 2 transit sheds with total area of , and 3 private warehouse with a total area of .\n\n"}
{"id": "2126888", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126888", "title": "San Roque, Northern Samar", "text": "San Roque, Northern Samar\n\n', officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nSan Roque was originally a part of Pambujan. San Roque is the Spanish language name for Saint Roch.\n\nSan Roque is politically subdivided into 16 barangays.\n\n</td><td valign=top>\nRepublic Act No. 2102, which created the municipality of San Roque, was enacted without executive approval on March 28, 1959. The territory of the town was described as follows:\n\nThe law creating the town referred to the barrios of Lao-angan, Coroconog, Dale, Balnasan, Bantayan, Pagsang-an, Malobago, Lawa-an, Ginagda-nan, and Balud and the sitio of Cabigaho as comprising the town.\n\nThe following served as Municipal Mayors of San Roque, Northern Samar:\nDiego Merino (appointed, 1960-1963);\nJuan Abalon (elected, 1964-1967);\nOscar Abalon (elected, 1968-1980);\nLucio Abalon (elected, 1980-1981 - died in office 15 Sept 1981);\nEnriquito Lagrimas (succeeded, 1981-1986);\nEliseo Lim (designated OIC, 1986-1987);\nFroctuoso Solomon (designated OIC, 1987-1988);\nRamon Lubos (elected, 1988-1998);\nBenito Tuballas (succeeded, 1998);\nDon Abalon (elected, 1998-2004);\nAndre Abalon (elected, 2004-2013 - died in office 13 May 2013);\nJocelyn Curso (succeeded, 2013);\nDon Abalon (elected 2013–present: first mayor to return to office)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2126891", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126891", "title": "San Vicente, Northern Samar", "text": "San Vicente, Northern Samar\n\n', officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nIt is an island-municipality composed of seven islands of the Naranjo Island Group: Sila, Tarnate, Sangputan, Panganoron (Medio), Mahaba (Rasa), Maragat (San Andres) and Destacado where the town proper is located. Destacado island is in the southernmost part of the group of islands comprising the municipality.\n\nLocals speak Cebuano language and part Waray-Waray. According to the , it has a population of people. It is the smallest municipality in the province, both in area and population.\n\nThe island municipality of San Vicente consists of six major islands; Destacado, Panganoron, Mahaba, Maragat, Sila, Tarnate, Sangputan. The islands of Panganoron, Mahaba, Maragat, Sila Tarnate and Sangputan form a circle of island group while Destacado lies in the far south of the group. The seat of government and town center is located in Destacado Island which separated several nautical miles from the rest of the group. Other smaller islands also form part of the municipality of San Vicente.\n\nSan Vicente is politically subdivided into 7 barangays.\n\n\nSince San Vicente is an island municipality, the primary source of income is fishing. Tourism is an untapped potential source of livelihood and jobs but it is undeveloped. The islands of Sila, Tarnate, Sangputan, Panganoron, Maragat, Mahaba boast of white sand beaches. At Sila island, a pink sand beach is tucked on its coast.\n\n"}
{"id": "2126892", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126892", "title": "Silvino Lobos", "text": "Silvino Lobos\n\n', officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nIt is a former barrio of the town of Pambujan. Its former name is Barrio Suba until it became a town in 1965.\n\nSilvino Lubos is politically subdivided into 26 barangays.\n"}
{"id": "2126893", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126893", "title": "Victoria, Northern Samar", "text": "Victoria, Northern Samar\n\n', officially the ', is a in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nIt borders with the town of Allen in the north and San Isidro in the southwest.\n\nVictoria is politically subdivided into 16 barangays.\n\nElected officials:\n\n"}
{"id": "2126911", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126911", "title": "Call for bids", "text": "Call for bids\n\nA call for bids, call for tenders, invitation to tender (ITT, often called tender for short), invitation for bid (IFB) or invitation to bid (ITB) or notice inviting tenders (NIT, a term often used in purchasing in India) is a procedure for generating competing offers from different bidders looking to obtain an award of business activity in works, supply, or service contracts, often from companies who have been previously assessed for suitability by means of a supplier questionnaire or pre-qualification questionnaire (PQQ).\n\nA call for bids differs from a request for proposal (RFP), in which case other reasons (technology used, quality) might cause or allow choice of the second best offer. An RFP is a request for a price from a buyer but the buyer would also expect suggestions and ideas on how the project work should be done. RFPs are thus focused on more than just pricing/cost, they entail a bit of consulting from the contractor or vendor.\n\nOpen tenders, open calls for tenders, or advertised tenders are open to all vendors or contractors who can guarantee performance.\n\nRestricted tenders, restricted calls for tenders, or invited tenders are only open to selected prequalified vendors or contractors. This may form part of a two-stage process, the first stage of which (as in the expression-of-interest (EOI) tender call) produces a shortlist of suitable vendors.\n\nThe reasons for restricted tenders differ in scope and purpose. Restricted tenders can come about because:\n\nDictionaries explain the etymology as coming from Old French , which means 'to offer'.\n\nThe following false etymology is sometimes heard: When merchant ships arrived at a port of call, they would post a notice describing the goods they wished to buy or sell. This notice was delivered ahead of the ship by a tender—a small boat—and hence the process became known as tendering.\n\nIn an open bid or tender system, a double envelope system may be used. The double envelope system separates the technical proposal (based on and intended to meet the statement of work) from the financing or cost proposal in the form of two separate and sealed envelopes.\n\nDuring the tender evaluation, the technical proposal would be opened and evaluated first followed by the financing proposal.\n\nThe objective of this system is to ensure a fair evaluation of the proposal. The technical proposal would be evaluated purely on its technical merits and its ability to meet the requirements set forth in the Invitation without being unduly skewed by the financial proposal.\n\nA tender box is a mailbox that is used to receive the physical tender or bid documents. When a tender or bid is being called, a tender or bid number is usually issued as a reference number for the tender box. The tender box would be open for interested parties to submit their proposals for the duration of the bid or tender.\n\nOnce the duration is over, the tender box is closed and sealed and can only be opened by either the tender or bid evaluation committee or a member of the procurement department with two witnesses.\n\nRegistered contractors are usually required to furnish a bond for a stipulated sum as security or earnest money deposit to be adjusted against work done, normally in the form of bank guarantee or surety.\n\nPublic sector organisations in many countries are legally obliged to release tenders for works and services. In the majority of cases, these are listed on their websites and traditional print media. Electronic procurement and tendering systems or e-procurement are also increasingly prevalent.\n\nA number of companies provide subscription alert services which send notifications of relevant tender documents to the subscriber.\n\nAn array of private organisations also assist businesses in finding out about these tenders. Cost may vary from a few pounds a week to a few hundred.\n\nBecause of the specialised language and sometimes difficult-to-grasp procedures, there are several consulting organizations also offer companies tender writing training, or do the writing for them.\n\nA typical invitation to tender template in any project has the following sections:\n\nPost-tender negotiation involves negotiation between an intending buyer and seller after a seller's tender has been submitted. An initial stage may involve tender clarification, which is intended to eliminate any uncertainties or contradictory elements of a proposal, before moving into a true \"negotiation\" phase.\n\nThe Chartered Institute of Procurement & Supply believes that \"provided it is undertaken professionally and ethically, ... post tender negotiation is an appropriate process to secure value for money.\n\n"}
{"id": "2126912", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126912", "title": "Ixelles", "text": "Ixelles\n\nIxelles (; Dutch: Elsene ) is one of the nineteen municipalities of the Brussels-Capital Region of Belgium.\n\nIxelles is located in the suburbs towards the south of Brussels' city centre and is geographically bisected by the City of Brussels. It is also bordered by the municipalities of Auderghem, Etterbeek, Forest, Uccle, Saint-Gilles and Watermael-Boitsfort. It is generally considered an affluent area of the city and is particularly noted for its communities of European and Congolese immigrants. In common with all of Brussels' municipalities, it is legally bilingual (French–Dutch).\n\nIxelles is located in the south of Brussels and is divided into two parts by Avenue Louise/Louizalaan, which is part of the City of Brussels. The municipality's smaller western part includes Rue du Bailli/Baljuwstraat and extends roughly from Avenue Louise to /, whilst its larger eastern part includes campuses of Brussels' two leading universities; the French-speaking Université libre de Bruxelles and the Dutch-speaking Vrije Universiteit Brussel, along with Eugène Flagey Square. The Bois de la Cambre/Ter Kamerenbos is located just south of Ixelles.\n\nThe construction of Avenue Louise was commissioned in 1847 as a monumental avenue bordered by chestnut trees that would allow easy access to the popular recreational area of the Bois de la Cambre. It was also to be the first Haussmann-esque artery of the city of Brussels. However, fierce resistance to the project was put up by the town of Ixelles (which was then still separate from Brussels) through whose land the avenue was supposed to run. After years of fruitless negotiations, Brussels finally annexed the narrow band of land needed for the avenue in addition to the Bois de la Cambre itself in 1864. That decision is the reason for the unusual shape of today's City of Brussels and for the separation of Ixelles into two separate areas.\n\nThe placename was first mentioned in 1210 as \"Elsela\", from the Old Dutch , meaning alder woods. The origins of the village date from the foundation of La Cambre Abbey. Hendrik I, Duke of Brabant, donated the Pennebeke domain (\"Pennebeek\" was the original name of the Maalbeek spring) to the Cistercian nun Gisela in 1201. She in turn founded the Abbey, and in 1210, acquired property on which the duke ordered the construction of a mill. The marshlands around the Abbey were later drained and sanitised, which resulted in four springs which served as a source of fish for the Abbey's inhabitants and the neighbouring hamlets. The Abbey was located near the springs of the Maelbeek river in the Sonian Forest, the remnant of which closest to Brussels became known as the Bois de la Cambre/Ter Kamerenbos in the 19th century. The Abbey was recognised by Jan III van Bethune, the Bishop of Cambrai, in 1202, soon after its foundation. The saints Boniface of Brussels and Alice of Schaerbeek were two of its most famous residents in the 13th century.\nAround 1300, during the reign of John II, Duke of Brabant, a hostel was built near the abbey to provide meals to the wood bearers working in the forest. Soon, a hamlet and a couple of chapels were built, including the Church of the Holy Cross (, ), also inaugurated by the Bishop of Cambrai and dedicated to Mary and the Holy Cross in 1459 (the Bishop of Cambrai is said to have brought two pieces of the original cross with him). Initially, these hamlets and provisions were constructed for the labourers that helped drain and sanitise the marshlands. At that time, part of Ixelles was a dependence of Brussels; the other part was the property of the local lord.\n\nIn 1478, the wars between Louis XI of France and Maximilian I, Holy Roman Emperor, brought devastation to the Abbey and the surrounding areas. In 1585, during the period of the Habsburg Netherlands, the Spanish burnt down most of the buildings to prevent them from being used as a refuge by the Calvinists. The Abbey was restored in time for the Joyous Entry of the Archdukes Albert and Isabella in 1599. Further manors and castles (Ermitage, Ten Bosch and Ixelles, for example) were built in Ixelles in the 16th century, gradually transforming the hamlet into a full-fledged village.\n\nThanks to the Maalbeek springs and the purity of its waters, the brewing industry became active in the area. It started inside the Abbey, but by the 16th century, had expanded beyond its walls. Due to the liberalisation of the beer industry by the Council of Brabant in 1602, the brewing industry grew, which resulted in a lively scene by the banks of the spring. By the 17th and 18th centuries, around 20 breweries-cabaretiers had settled in Ixelles, among which Saint-Hubert, De Sterre and L’Italie.\nIn 1795, like many other towns surrounding Brussels, Ixelles was proclaimed a separate municipality by the French regime after the Revolution. The municipalities of Neder-Elsene (where the Abbey is located), Opper-Elsene (a Brussels suburb), Boondaal, Tenbos, and Solbos, all became part of Ixelles. Moreover, the Abbey was stripped of its religious functions, becoming among others a cotton-manufacturing plant, a farm, a military school, and a hospital. Many of the medieval gates of Brussels that lined what is now the inner ring road were taken down and more streets were built to accommodate the migration towards the suburbs. Ixelles' population grew nearly one-hundredfold, from 677 in 1813 to more than 58,000 in 1900. With this intense growth also came the Frenchification of Ixelles.\nAt the end of the 19th century, some of the ponds were drained, leaving only the so-called \"Ixelles Ponds\", and a new Church of the Holy Cross was built in 1860. The first trams appeared in 1884 and the first cinema in 1919. Ixelles and Avenue Louise became one of the most fashionable areas of Brussels. Artists and celebrities moved in, leading to architectural novelties such as Art Nouveau and Art Deco.\n\nIxelles is known throughout Belgium for its large community of people of African origin. This population is mainly concentrated near the Namur Gate (French: \"Porte de Namur\", Dutch: \"Naamsepoort\"), and the neighbourhood is nicknamed \"Matongé\" or \"Matongué\" after the marketplace and the commercial district with the same name in Kalamu, Kinshasa (Democratic Republic of the Congo). The core of \"Matongé\" was formed in late 1950s by the foundation of \"Maisaf\" (an abbreviation of \"Maison Africaine\" or \"African House\") which served as a centre and residence for university students from the Belgian Congo. After Congolese independence in 1960, the district faced an influx of immigrants from the new state who shaped the neighbourhood in a style to resemble the original \"Matongé\". During the sixties and into the seventies, the area was a well known meeting place for students and diplomats from Zaire. At the time they were known locally as \"Belgicains\". There are also communities from other African countries.\n\nThe famous shopping arcades, the \"Galerie d'Ixelles\" and the \"Galerie de la Porte de Namur\" are both located in the heart of \"Matongé\". In the gallery and the adjoining streets, a large number of specialised food shops and suppliers can be found. The area is renowned for its clothes, shoes and material shops, hairdressers and wigmakers, booksellers, jewellers and craft shops, making the area unmissable for many local and even international visitors, men and women, young and old. Over 45 different nationalities amongst the residents and shopkeepers can be counted, including most African countries. Statistically, many of the shopkeepers are not necessarily local residents. Amongst the visitors and window shoppers to \"Matongé\" are many who appreciate African fashion and the life-style.\n\nThe district also attained notoriety from the early 2000s with gang violence perpetrated by African gangs, partly composed of exiled child soldiers like \"Black Démolition\". It was the scene of race riots in January 2001. \"Matongé\", with its more recent immigrant communities from Latin America, Pakistan, and India along with African ones, is seen as a symbol of multiculturalism in Belgium. The local authorities, community groups and residents with a certain degree of success have more recently re-established the area as a safe place to visit. As the area and property ages there is increased pressure and interest from property developers to expand the European Quarter on one side and the fashionable Avenue Louise on the other, effectively \"Matongé\" is sandwiched between the two.\n\nEvery year since 2001 at the end of June, a successful multi-cultural festival, \"Matonge en Couleurs\", has been organised in the area. The date coincides with the celebration of Congolese independence. The film \"Juju Factory\", released in 2006, was partly filmed in the area. The local television channel \"Télé Bruxelles\" broadcasts a weekly magazine programme, \"Téle Matongé XL\".\n\nThe pedestrian street / is full of snack-bars where African food is sold. Most of these have been decorated by the famous Afro-European artist John Bush. \"Le Soleil d'Afrique\" has almost become his museum, with not only his original paintings on display, but also other painted surfaces and furniture.\n\nSeveral fairs are organised in Ixelles, including the Spring Fair on Eugène Flagey Square, which takes place between the fourth and sixth Sunday after Easter, and the Boondael Fair at the end of July.\n\nIxelles is twinned with, in chronological order:\n\nBorn in Ixelles (sorted by first name):\n\n\nLived in Ixelles:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2126914", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126914", "title": "Hendry", "text": "Hendry\n\nHendry is a surname:\n\n\nPersons with a Hendry surname:\n\n\nPlaces named Hendry:\n\n"}
{"id": "2126915", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126915", "title": "Envy-free cake-cutting", "text": "Envy-free cake-cutting\n\nAn envy-free cake-cutting is a kind of fair cake-cutting. It is a division of a heterogeneous resource (\"cake\") that satisfies the envy-free criterion, namely, that every partner feels that their allocated share is at least as good as any other share, according to their own subjective valuation.\nWhen there are only two partners, the problem is easy and has been solved in Biblical times by the divide and choose protocol. When there are three or more partners, the problem becomes much more challenging.\n\nTwo major variants of the problem have been studied:\n\nThe modern research of the fair cake-cutting problem has started in the 1940s. The first fairness criterion studied was proportional division, and a procedure for \"n\" partners has been found soon.\n\nThe stronger criterion of envy-freeness was introduced into the cake-cutting problem by George Gamow and Marvin Stern in 1950s.\n\nA procedure for three partners and general pieces was found in 1960. A procedure for three partners and connected pieces was found only in 1980.\n\nEnvy-free division for four or more partners has been an open problem until the 1990s, when three procedures for general pieces and a procedure for connected pieces have been published. All these procedures are \"unbounded\" - they may require a number of steps which is not bounded in advance. The procedure for connected pieces may even require an \"infinite\" number of steps.\n\nTwo lower bounds on the run-time complexity of envy-freeness have been published in the 2000s. \n\nIn the 2010s, several approximation procedures and procedures for special cases have been published. The question whether bounded-time procedures exist for the case of general pieces had remained open for a long time. The problem was finally solved in 2016. Haris Aziz and Simon Mackenzie presented a discrete envy-free protocol that requires at most formula_3 queries. There is still a very large gap between the lower bound and the procedure. As of August 2016, the exact run-time complexity of envy-freeness is still unknown.\n\nFor the case of connected pieces, it was noted that the hardness result assumes that the entire cake must be divided. If this requirement is replaced by the weaker requirement that every partner receives a proportional value (at least 1/\"n\" of the total cake value according to their own valuation), then a bounded procedure for three partners is known, but it has remained an open problem whether there exist bounded-time procedures for four or more partners.\n\nAn envy-free division for \"n\" agents with connected pieces always exists under the following mild assumptions:\nNote that it is \"not\" required that the preferences of the agents are represented by an additive function.\n\nThe main concept in the proof is the \"simplex of partitions\". Suppose the cake is the interval [0,1]. Each partition with connected pieces can be uniquely represented by \"n\" − 1 numbers in [0,1] which represent the cut locations. The union of all partitions is a simplex.\n\nFor each partition, each agent has one or more pieces which they weakly prefer. E.g., for the partition represented by \"0.3,0.5\", one agent may prefer piece #1 (the piece [0,0.3]) while another agent might prefer piece #2 (the piece [0.3,0.5]) while a third agent might prefer both piece #1 and piece #2 (which means that they are indifferent between them but like any of them more than piece #3).\n\nFor every agent, the partition simplex is covered by \"n\" parts, possibly overlapping at their boundaries, such that for all partitions in part \"i\", the agent prefers piece \"i\". In the interior of part \"i\", the agent prefers \"only\" piece \"i\", while in the boundary of part \"i\", the agent also prefers some other pieces. So for every \"i\", there is a certain region in the partition simplex in which at least one agent prefers only piece \"i\". Call this region \"U\". Using a certain topological lemma (that is similar to the Knaster–Kuratowski–Mazurkiewicz lemma), it is possible to prove that the intersection of all \"U\"'s is non-empty. Hence, there is a partition in which every piece is the unique preference of an agent. Since the number of pieces equals the number of agents, we can allocate each piece to the agent that prefers it and get an envy-free allocation.\n\nFor three agents, an envy-free division can be found using several different procedures:\n\nThese are continuous procedures - they rely on people moving knives continuously and simultaneously. They cannot be executed in a finite number of discrete steps.\n\nFor \"n\" agents, an envy-free division can be found by Simmons' cake-cutting protocol. The protocol uses a \"simplex of partitions\" similar to the one used in Stromquist's existence proof. It generates a sequence of partitions which converges to an envy-free partition. The convergence might take infinitely many steps.\n\nIt is not a coincidence that all these algorithms may require infinitely many queries. As we show in the following subsection, it may be impossible to find an envy-free cake-cutting with connected pieces with a finite number of queries.\n\nAn envy-free division with connected pieces for 3 or more agents cannot be found by a finite protocol.\n\nThe impossibility proof uses a \"rigid measure system\" (RMS) – a system of \"n\" value measures, for which an envy-free division must cut the cake at very specific locations. Then, finding an envy-free division reduces to finding these specific locations. Assuming the cake is the real interval [0,1], finding an envy-free division using queries to the agents is equivalent to finding a real number in the interval [0,1] using yes/no questions. This might require an infinite number of questions.\n\nA RMS for three agents can be constructed as follows. Let \"x\", \"y\", \"s\", and \"t\" be parameters satisfying:\n\nConstruct a set of three measures with these two properties:\n\nThen, every envy-free division among Alice Bob and Carl must have cuts at \"x\" and \"y\" (there are exactly two such divisions), since all other options lead to envy: \n\nFor every RMS, every agent \"i\" and every constant ε>0, there is a slightly different RMS with the following properties:\n\nThis implies that, if all queries answered so far were outside the \"ε\"-neighbourhood of \"x\" and \"y\", then agent \"i\" has no way to know whether we are in the old RMS or in the new RMS.\n\nEquipped with this knowledge, an adversary can trick every envy-free division protocol to go on forever:\nThus the protocol can never make cuts at the correct \"x\" and \"y\" required for an envy-free division.\n\nSince envy-free cake-cutting with connected pieces cannot be done in finite time, cake-cutters have tried to find work-arounds.\n\nOne work-around is looking for divisions which are only \"approximately-envy-free\". There are two ways to define the approximation - in units of \"length\" or in units of \"value\".\n\nLength-based approximation uses the following definitions:\nThe parameter \"δ\" represents the tolerance of the partners in units of length. E.g., if land is divided and the partners agree that a difference of 0.01 meter in the location of the border is not relevant to them, then it makes sense to look for a 0.01-multi-partition which is envy-free. Deng at al present a modification of Simmons' cake-cutting protocol which finds an envy-free \"δ\"-multi-partition using formula_7 queries. Moreover, they prove a lower bound of formula_8 queries. Even when the utility functions are given explicitly by polynomial-time algorithms, the envy-free cake-cutting problem is PPAD-complete.\n\nValue-based approximation uses the following definitions:\n\nIf all value measures are Lipschitz-continuous, then the two approximation definitions are related. Let formula_11. Then, every partition in an envy-free \"δ\"-multi-partition is \"ε\"-envy-free. Hence, Deng et al.'s results prove that, if all partners have Lipschitz-continuous valuations, an \"ε\"-envy-free partition can be found with formula_12 queries.\n\nOffline calculation is a second work-around that finds a totally-envy-free division but only for a restricted class of valuations. If all value measures are polynomials of degree at most \"d\", there is an algorithm which is polynomial in \"n\" and \"d\". Given \"d\", the algorithm asks the agents \"d\"+1 evaluation queries, which give \"d\"+1 points in the graph of the value measure. It is known that \"d\"+1 points are sufficient to interpolate a polynomial of degree \"d\". Hence, the algorithm can interpolate the entire value measures of all agents, and find an envy-free division offline. The number of required queries is formula_13.\n\nAnother restriction on the valuations is that they are \"piecewise-constant\" - for each agent, there are at most \"m\" desired intervals, and the agent's value-density in each interval is constant. Under this assumption, a connected envy-free allocation can be found by solving formula_14 linear programs. Thus, when \"n\" is constant, the problem is polynomial in \"m\". \n\nFree disposal is a third work-around that keeps the requirement that the division be totally envy-free and works for all value measures, but drops the requirement that the entire cake must be divided. I.e, it allows to divide a subset of the cake and discard the remainder. Without further requirements the problem is trivial, since it is always envy-free to give nothing to all agents. Thus, the real goal is to give each agent a strictly positive value. Every cake allocation can be characterized by its level of \"proportionality\", which is the value of the least fortunate agent. An envy-free division of the entire cake is also a proportional division, and its proportionality level is at least formula_15, which is the best possible. But when free disposal is allowed, an envy-free division may have a lower proportionality level, and the goal is to find an envy-free division with the highest possible proportionality. The currently known bounds are:\nIt is not known whether there exists a bounded-time envy-free and proportional division procedure for four or more partners with connected pieces.\n\nMost procedures for cake-cutting with connected pieces assume that the cake is a 1-dimensional interval and the pieces are 1-dimensional sub-intervals. Often, it is desirable that the pieces have a certain geometric shape, such as a square. With such constraints, it may be impossible to divide the entire cake (e.g., a square cannot be divided to two squares), so we must allow free disposal. As explained above, when free disposal is allowed, the procedures are measured by their level of \"proportionality\" - the value that they guarantee to all agents. The following results are currently known:\n\nFor three partners, the Selfridge–Conway discrete procedure makes an envy-free division with at most 5 cuts. \nOther procedures using moving knives require fewer cuts:\n\nFor four partners, The Brams–Taylor–Zwicker procedure makes an envy-free division with at most 11 cuts. For five partners, a procedure by Saberi and Wang makes an envy-free division with a bounded number of cuts. Both these procedures use Austin's procedure for two partners and general fractions as an initial step. Hence, these procedures should be considered infinite - they cannot be completed using a finite number of steps.\n\nFor four or more partners, there are three algorithms which are finite but unbounded - there is no fixed bound on the number of cuts required. There are three such algorithms: \nAlthough the protocols are different, the main idea behind them is similar: Divide the cake to a finite but unbounded number of \"crumbs\", each of which is so small that its value for all partners is negligible. Then combine the crumbs in a sophisticated way to get the desired division. William Gasarch has compared the three unbounded algorithms using ordinal numbers.\n\nThe question of whether envy-free cake-cutting can be done in bounded time for four or more partners had been open for many years. It was finally solved in 2016 by Hariz Aziz and Simon Mackenzie. Initially they developed a bounded-time algorithm for four partners. Then they extended their algorithm to handle any number of partners. Their algorithm requires at most formula_3 queries. While this number is bounded, it is very far from the lower bound of formula_23. So the question of how many queries are required for envy-free cake-cutting is still open.\n\nA reentrant variant of the last diminisher protocol finds an additive approximation to an envy-free division in bounded time. Specifically, for every constant formula_24, it returns a division in which the value of each partner is at least the largest value minus formula_25, in time formula_26.\n\nIf all value measures are \"piecewise linear\", there is an algorithm which is polynomial in the size of the representation of the value functions. The number of queries is formula_27, where formula_28 is the number of discontinuities in the derivatives of the value density functions.\n\nEvery envy-free procedure for \"n\" people requires at least Ω(\"n\") queries. The proof relies on a careful analysis of the amount of information the algorithm has on each partner.\n\nA. Assume that the cake is the 1-dimensional interval [0,1], and that the value of the entire cake for each of the partners is normalized 1. In each step, the algorithm asks a certain partner either to \"evaluate\" a certain interval contained in [0,1], or to \"mark\" an interval with a specified value. In both cases, the algorithm gathers information only about intervals whose end-points were mentioned in the query or in the reply. Let's call these endpoints \"landmarks\". Initially the only landmarks of \"i\" are 0 and 1 since the only thing the algorithm knows about partner \"i\" is that \"v\"([0,1])=1. If the algorithm asks partner \"i\" to evaluate the interval [0.2,1], then after the reply the landmarks of \"i\" are {0,0.2,1}. The algorithm can calculate \"v\"([0,0.2]), but not the value of any interval whose endpoint is different than 0.2. The number of landmarks increases by at most 2 in each query. In particular, the value of the interval [0,0.2] might be concentrated entirely near 0, or entirely near 0.2, or anywhere in between.\n\nB. An interval between two consecutive landmarks of partner \"i\" is called a \"landmark-interval\" of partner \"i\", When the algorithm decides to allocate a piece of cake to partner \"i\", it must allocate a piece whose total value for \"i\" is at least as large as any landmark-interval of \"i\". The proof is by contradiction: suppose there is a certain landmark-interval \"J\" whose value for \"i\" is more than the value actually allocated to \"i\". Some other partner, say \"j\", will necessarily receive some part of the landmark-interval \"J\". By paragraph A, it is possible that all the value of interval \"J\" is concentrated inside the share allocated to partner \"j\". Thus, \"i\" envies \"j\" and the division is not envy-free.\n\nC. Suppose all partners answer all queries \"as if\" their value measure is uniform (i.e. the value of an interval is equal to its length). By paragraph B, the algorithm may assign a piece to partner \"i\", only if it is longer than all landmark-intervals of \"i\". At least \"n\"/2 partners must receive an interval with a length of at most 2/\"n\"; hence all their landmark-intervals must have a length of at most 2/\"n\"; hence they must have at least \"n\"/2 landmark-intervals; hence they must have at least \"n\"/2 landmarks.\n\nD. Each query answered by partner \"i\" involves at most two new endpoints, so it increases the number of landmarks of \"i\" by at most 2. Hence, in the case described by paragraph C, the algorithm must ask each of \"n\"/2 partners, at least \"n\"/4 queries. The total number of queries is thus at least \"n\"/8 = Ω(\"n\").\n\nIn addition to the general existence proofs implied by the algorithms described above, there are proofs for the existence of envy-free partitions with additional properties:\n\nBoth proofs work only for additive and non-atomic value measures, and rely on the ability to give each partner a large number of disconnected pieces.\n\nA common generalization of the envy-free criterion is that each of the partners has a different entitlement. I.e., for every partner \"i\" there is a weight \"w\" describing the fraction of the cake that they are entitled to receive (the sum of all \"w\" is 1). Then a weighted-envy-free division is defined as follows. For every agent \"i\" with value measure \"V\", and for every other agent \"j\":formula_29I.e., every partner thinks that their allocation relative to their entitlement is at least as large as any other allocation relative to the other partner's entitlement.\n\nWhen all weights are the same (and equal to 1/\"n\"), this definition reduces to the standard definition of envy-freeness.\n\nWhen the pieces may be disconnected, a weighted envy-free division always exists and can be found by the Robertson-Webb protocol, for any set of weights. Zeng presented an alternative algorithm for approximate weighted envy-free division, which requires a smaller number of cuts.\n\nBut when the pieces must be connected, a weighted envy-free division may not exist. To see this, note that every weighted-envy-free division is also \"weighted-proportional\" with the same weight-vector; this means that, for every agent \"i\" with value measure \"V\":formula_30It is known that weighted-proportional allocation with connected pieces may not exist: see proportional cake-cutting with different entitlements for an example.\n\nNote that there is an alternative definition of weighted-envy-free division, where the weights are assigned to \"pieces\" rather than to agents. With this definition, a weighted envy-free division is known to exist in the following cases (each case generalizes the previous case):\n\n\nIn some cases, the 'cake' to be divided has a negative value. For example, it might be piece of lawn that has to be mowed, or a piece of wasteland that has to be cleaned. Then, the cake is a 'heterogeneous bad' rather than a 'heterogeneous good'.\n\nSome procedures for envy-free cake-cutting can be adapted to work for a bad cake, but the adaptation is often not trivial. See envy-free chore division for more details.\n\nSummary by number of agents and type of pieces:\n\n"}
{"id": "2126929", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126929", "title": "Jess Stearn", "text": "Jess Stearn\n\nJess Stearn (April 26, 1914 – March 27, 2002) was an American journalist and author of more than thirty books, nine of which were bestsellers.\n\nStearn was born in Syracuse, New York to David Stearn, a rabbi. He graduated from Syracuse University.\n\nStearn became a journalist for the New York Daily News and later an associate editor for Newsweek.\n\nAs an author, Stearn specialized in sensationalist speculative non-fiction. His early work focused on outsiders and marginalized individuals such as prostitutes, drug addicts, and homosexuals. His later work focused on spirituality, the occult, and psychic phenomena. His most popular works were two biographies on the American psychic Edgar Cayce; Stearn was a conference speaker for the Association for Research and Enlightenment and a proponent of Cayce's theories.\n\nStearn married twice and had two children, Martha and Fred. He had a longtime close friendship with actress and radio/television personality Arlene Francis. That may have had a connection to the first mention of his name in a nationally syndicated newspaper column. A reference to his latest book appeared in the Voice of Broadway column written by Francis' television colleague Dorothy Kilgallen. Either Kilgallen or her editor at the \"New York Journal American\" placed a plug for \"Yoga, Youth and Reincarnation\" in that paper's September 15, 1965 edition immediately after an item about an upcoming Johnnie Ray concert in Las Vegas. Ten years later, Francis discussed one of her recurring dreams with Stearn for a book he was writing that included a section on dreams. Stearn and Francis shared interests in yoga and weightlifting.\n\nStearn died of congestive heart failure on March 27, 2002 in his Malibu, California home. He chose not to have a funeral because of his belief in reincarnation.\n\n"}
{"id": "2126954", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126954", "title": "Lycoming XR-7755", "text": "Lycoming XR-7755\n\nThe Lycoming XR-7755 was the largest piston aircraft engine ever built in the United States, with 36 cylinders totaling about 7,750 in³ (127 L) of displacement and a power output of 5,000 horsepower (3,700 kilowatts). It was originally intended to be used in the \"European bomber\" that eventually emerged as the Convair B-36. Only two examples were built before the project was terminated in 1946.\n\nLycoming had not been successful in designing a high-power engine. They had started with an attempt to make a hyper engine that led to the 1,200 hp (890 kW) O-1230; by the time the engine was ready, however, new aircraft designs were all calling for more power. They tried again by \"twinning\" the engine to produce the H block H-2470, which saw some interest in the Vultee XP-54 \"Swoose Goose\" project. Work on the H-2470 ended when the XP-54 was cancelled.\n\nIn one final attempt, Lycoming decided to go all out and build what would turn out to be the largest displacement aircraft piston engine in the world. They put together a team under the direction of VP of Engineering Clarence Wiegman at their main Williamsport factory in the summer of 1943 and started work.\n\nThe resulting design used nine banks of four cylinders each, arranged around a central crankshaft with each cylinder bank at a 40° angle to each adjacent bank, to form a four-row radial engine. Unlike most multi-row radials, which \"spiral\" the cylinders to allow cooling air to reach them, the R-7755 was water-cooled, and so each of the cylinder heads in a cylinder bank were in-line within a cooling jacket.\n\nEach cylinder bank had a single overhead cam actuating the poppet valves. The camshaft included two sets of cams, one for full takeoff power, and another for economical cruise. The pilot could select between the two settings, which would shift the camshaft along its axis to bring the other set of cams over the valve stems. The design mounted some of the accessories on the \"front side\" of the camshafts, namely two magnetos and four distributors. The seventh camshaft was not used in this fashion, its location on the front of the engine was used to feed oil to the propeller reduction gearing.\n\nThe original XR-7755-1 design drove a single propeller, but even on the largest aircraft the propeller needed to absorb the power would have been ridiculously large. This led to a minor redesign that produced the XR-7755-3, using a new propeller gearing system driving a set of coaxial shafts to power a set of contra-rotating propellers. The propeller reduction gearing also had two speed settings to allow for a greater range of operating power than adjustable props alone could deliver. Another minor modification resulted in the XR-7755-5, the only change being the replacement of carburetors with a new fuel injection system.\n\nThe engine first started testing at in 1944 with the XR-7755-3. A second example was provided, as planned, to the United States Army Air Forces at Wright Field in 1946. However, by this time the Air Force had lost interest in new piston designs due to the introduction of jet engines. The original test engine was later delivered to the Smithsonian Institution, where it was recently restored.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2126959", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126959", "title": "Forest, Belgium", "text": "Forest, Belgium\n\nForest (French name, ; ) is one of the nineteen municipalities located in the Brussels-Capital Region of Belgium. It is bordered by Anderlecht, Ixelles, Uccle, Saint-Gilles and Drogenbos. In common with all the Brussels municipalities, it is legally bilingual (French–Dutch).\n\nThe municipality is commonly known for its concert hall: Forest National/Vorst Nationaal. It also houses an important jail, an Audi factory and a railway depot that is home to the Belgian fleet of Eurostar train sets.\n\nThe first houses built in this forested area along the Geleysbeek, a tributary of the Senne, date from the 7th century. The village's first church was dedicated to Saint Dionysius the Areopagite. The legend of Saint Alena, a young convert to Chalcedonian Christianity murdered by her father's troops for hearing mass at the church of Dionysius, also takes place in the 7th century. The chapel and cult of Saint Alena, however, date only from the 12th century. The saint's cenotaph, one of the rare examples of 12th-century sculpture in Belgium, can still be admired in the chapel today. The contiguous church of Saint Denis (Dionysius) was rebuilt in the Romanesque style at around the same time.\n\nThe abbots of Affligem, which had been the ecclesiastical owners of the parish since the bishop of Cambrai ceded it to them in 1105, decided to build a priory for women in Forest; Forest Abbey. The first abbess of the Forest priory was appointed in 1239. Also in the 13th century, the Romanesque church of Saint Denis was rebuilt in the newer Gothic style. The neighbouring abbatial church was rebuilt in the 15th century.\n\nDuring the period of the Austrian Netherlands, especially during the reigns of Archdukes Albert and Isabella, Forest prospered, thanks to its abbey. On 26 March 1764, however, a devastating fire ruined some of the buildings and destroyed many of its artworks. Three decades later, in the years following the French Revolution, the religious community was disbanded, the nuns forced to flee, and the buildings sold. The Forest municipality bought the abbey in 1964 and proceeded to restore it to its previous glory.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2126968", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126968", "title": "William Glackens", "text": "William Glackens\n\nWilliam James Glackens (March 13, 1870 – May 22, 1938) was an American realist painter and one of the founders of the Ashcan School of American art. He is also known for his work in helping Albert C. Barnes to acquire the European paintings that form the nucleus of the famed Barnes Foundation in Philadelphia. His dark-hued, vibrantly painted street scenes and depictions of daily life in pre-WW I New York and Paris first established his reputation as a major artist. His later work was brighter in tone and showed the strong influence of Renoir. During much of his career as a painter, Glackens also worked as an illustrator for newspapers and magazines in Philadelphia and New York City.\n\nGlackens was born in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, where his family had lived for many generations. William had two siblings: an older sister, Ada, and an older brother, cartoonist and illustrator Louis Glackens. He graduated from the prestigious Central High School in 1890. Throughout his school years, he showed a great interest in and aptitude for drawing and drafting.\n\nAfter graduation, Glackens became an artist-reporter for \"The Philadelphia Record\". In 1892, he left that newspaper and began illustrating for the \"Philadelphia Press\". He enrolled in evening classes at the Pennsylvania Academy of the Fine Arts, studying under the renowned realist Thomas Anshutz. Glackens was not a steady pupil, as art critic Forbes Watson would observe in 1923: \"So much impression did the various instructors make upon him that today he can hardly remember who taught there when he was a pupil.\" John Sloan also attended the Academy, and he introduced Glackens to Robert Henri, a talented painter and charismatic figure in Philadelphia art circles. Henri played host to regular artists' gatherings at his studio, occasions to socialize, drink, sketch, talk about art, and give artistic criticism of one another's work. Henri urged the young men he brought together to read Whitman and Emerson, William Morris Hunt's \"Talks on Art\" and George Moore's \"Modern Painting\", and to think about the need to create a vigorous new American art that spoke to their time and experience. These gatherings were the inspirational beginning of what became known as the Ashcan school of American art, a style that rejected the formality and gentility of 19th-century academic art and looked to working-class and middle-class metropolitan life for its material.\n\nIn 1895, Glackens traveled to Europe with several fellow painters, including Henri, to paint and to immerse himself in European art. He first visited Holland where he studied the Dutch masters. He then moved to Paris, where he rented a studio for a year with Henri and enjoyed his first exposure to the art of the Impressionists and Post-Impressionists. (For both men, \"Manet became an idol.\") Such a trip was common for artists of the time who wished to establish themselves in an American art world still looked upon as provincial by those artists and art lovers with a deeper experience of the Old Masters and the new art movements. While in Paris, Glackens painted independently, but did not attend any classes. Later in life, a confirmed Francophile, Glackens returned periodically to paint in Paris and the south of France.\n\nUpon settling in New York in 1896, Glackens began work as an artist for the \"New York World\", a position he attained through his friend and fellow illustrator George Luks, a painter who had also been a participant in the Henri studio sessions in Philadelphia. Glackens later became a sketch artist for the \"New York Herald\". He also worked as an illustrator for various magazines, including \"McClure's Magazine\", which sent him to Cuba to cover the Spanish–American War. At this time, Glackens was making a living as a magazine illustrator, but his real passion lay in painting. In 1901, he exhibited at the Allen Gallery with Henri and Sloan and thereafter gained favorable notice as an up-and-coming artist.\n\nIn 1904, Glackens married Edith Dimock, the daughter of a wealthy Connecticut family. She was also an artist, and they lived together in a Greenwich Village townhouse, where they raised two children, Lenna and Ira. If many of their artist friends lived a bohemian life by the standards of the day, such was not the case with William and Edith Glackens. In 1957, Ira Glackens published an anecdotal book about his father and the role he played in the emerging realist movement in art.\n\nIn 1906 he was elected into the National Academy of Design as an Associate member, and became a full Academician in 1933.\n\nIn New York, Glackens became associated with a group of artists known today as The Eight, five of whom (Robert Henri, John Sloan, George Luks, and Everett Shinn as well as Glackens) are considered Ashcan realists. The other members of this loose association were Arthur B. Davies, Ernest Lawson, and Maurice Prendergast. \"The Eight\" was a not term of the group's own choosing, but after their first exhibition in 1908, it became their unofficial title in the press, alluding to the fact that the artists' cause had little to do with stylistic similarities and everything to do with art politics. These eight men had decided to hold a separate exhibition after experiencing repeated rejection from the \"official\" exhibitions at the powerful, conservative National Academy of Design. Their breakaway venture was, in part, a way of protesting that controlling body's rigid definition of artistic beauty. Their show at the Macbeth Gallery was a small-scale \"succès de scandale\" and toured several cities from Newark to Chicago in an traveling exhibition curated by Sloan. The painters gained wider recognition and were invited to exhibit at many institutions. More importantly, they had initiated a national debate about acceptable subject matter in art and the need to end the constraints of The Genteel Tradition in American culture. Most of the Eight also participated in the \"Exhibition of Independent Artists\" in 1910, a further attempt to break down the exclusivity of the Academy.\n\nGlackens, Henri, Sloan, Luks, and Shinn were key figures in the realist movement in the visual arts during the years (c. 1895-1920) when challenging writers of realist fiction, such as Stephen Crane, Theodore Dreiser, and Frank Norris, were gaining wider audiences and struggling to set aside the Genteel Tradition in American letters. The painters depicted robust, sometimes inelegant urban themes and welcomed artistic freedom. They were not concerned with modernist techniques; their focus was on energetic painting and fresh, accessible subject matter. Glackens was an integral part of the group. The genre aspects of Ashcan art are evident in his work of the time, particularly in paintings like \"Hammerstein's Roof Garden\" (1901), \"Easter River from Brooklyn\" (1902), \"Tugboat and Lighter\" (1904), and \"Winter, Central Park\" (1905).\n\nGlackens' friend, artist Jerome Myers, recalls in his autobiography \"Artist In Manhattan\" his visits with Glackens: \"The studio home of William Glackens, on Ninth Street just off Fifth Avenue, partook of the charm of this fine, boasted period. It was a delightful privilege for my wife and me to participate occasionally in the at-homes of the Glackens[es] during the season. Surrounded by the masterpieces of William Glackens, friends would gather in congenial remembrance: Edith Glackens, always an amusing hostess; William Glackens, quietly reminiscing with his companions. The young Glackens[es], Lenna and Ira, filled out the family picture, happy with their young artist friends, as well as with older friends who had known them since childhood. Of the latter were Everett Shinn and Guy Pène du Bois...the whole scene [was] imbued with the spirit of a New York that is now passing.\"\n\nBy 1910, Glackens began to concentrate on a \"highly personal coloristic style\" which represented a break from the Ashcan approach to art. It was, his biographer William Gerdts wrote, \"his conversion to mainstream Impressionism.\" His work was often compared to that of Renoir, to the point that he was called \"the American Renoir.\" Glackens' response to this criticism was always the same: \"Can you think of a better man to follow than Renoir?\" In aesthetic terms, Glackens' link to his friends who were a part of the Ashcan movement was always tenuous. Ultimately, Glackens was a \"pure\" painter for whom the sensuousness of the art form was paramount, not a social chronicler or an artist with a bent for politics or provocation.\n\nAt this time, millionaire-inventor Albert C. Barnes, a classmate and friend from Central High School, began to study and collect modern art. He commissioned Glackens to buy him some \"advanced\" works while on a trip to Paris. Glackens returned from Paris with about twenty paintings, which included works by Cézanne, Renoir, Manet, and Matisse, formed the core of what became the Barnes Foundation Collection. Glackens also advised Barnes on later art movements and purchases. Among New York artists, Glackens was known for his sophisticated eye and his wide and cosmopolitan tastes. Not surprisingly, he was less unnerved by the European modernism of the 1913 Armory Show than some of his Ashcan colleagues who saw that exhibition as a threat to American realist art.\n\nIn 1916, Glackens served as the president of the newly founded Society of Independent Artists, whose mission was to provide broader exhibition opportunities for lesser-known artists. He continued to travel to France between 1925 and 1935 to study the work of the Impressionists and the Post-Impressionists. His paintings received gold medals from annual exhibitions at the Pennsylvania Academy of Fine Arts in 1933 and again in 1936. In contrast to many of his friends among The Eight, such as Sloan and Luks, whose personal lives were turbulent and whose finances were uncertain, Glackens enjoyed a happy marriage, a contented home life, and a steady career, though by the 1930s he was seen by a younger generation interested in abstraction, surrealism, and political art as an old-fashioned artist.\n\nGlackens died suddenly while vacationing in Westport, Connecticut on May 22, 1938. He was interred at Cedar Hill Cemetery in Hartford, Connecticut. His posthumous retrospective at the Whitney Museum of American Art several months later, also shown at the Carnegie Institute at Pittsburgh, was well received. His legacy is linked to that of the Ashcan school and The Eight. Although he distanced himself from some of their ideals, William Glackens continued to be considered an integral part of the realist movement in American art.\n\nGlackens' subject matter and style changed throughout his life. Influenced by the work he saw during his time in Europe, from Hals and Manet to Frank Duveneck and the Impressionists, Glackens’ early work uses dark, dramatic colors and slashing, overlapping brushstrokes. He depicted scenes of urban life in Paris and its suburbs and painted the theaters and parks of Manhattan. He continued this style and subject matter for some time until he began to break away from The Eight. At that point, his most common subject matter was landscapes, especially beach scenes. Later Glackens became best known for his portraits, and late in his life he focused on still lifes. Despite the changing subject matter, Glackens’ work was clearly the product of a man who loved the fluid, unrestrained quality of oil on canvas. Forbes Watson asserted that Glackens focused on strong color effects, above all else, because \"the color of the world makes him thoroughly happy and to express that happiness in color has become his first and most natural impulse.\" His paintings are, paradoxically, \"haunted by the spectre of happiness, obsessed with the contemplation of joy.\" In many ways, he was always the gentlest, least radical of the Ashcan artists.\n\nGlackens is sometimes criticized for his similarity to Renoir. He was branded an imitator. The charge was made that during the 1920s and 1930s “his once vigorous artistic personality had been blunted by too close an imitation of Renoir’s late style.” Glackens himself seems not to have been affected by any doubts about his own purpose and originality. His art did not reflect the social crises of the day, such as the Great Depression; rather, it offered a refuge from that darkness.\n\n\"Nude with Apple\", in the collection of the Brooklyn Museum, is a signature work of Glackens’ post-Ashcan career. It is said to represent the turning point in his style and his division with The Eight. It depicts a model resting on a couch, holding an apple. \"The model's slightly weary but forthright expression, and even the ribbon tied around her neck, call to mind Manet's \"Olympia\"...a modern Eve.\" A humorously incongruous touch is her hat, placed on the couch next to her unclothed body as if she had just arrived or was preparing soon to leave. The languid pose, the comfortable interior setting, and the notable attention paid to bright, vivid colors set this painting apart from those of the Ashcan painters. It is interesting to compare the finished work to an earlier study in pastel. Glackens' working method included making numbers of sketches which focused on separate elements of the composition.\n\n\"Chez Mouquin\", in the collection of the Art Institute of Chicago, is arguably Glackens’s most celebrated painting. It is set in the well-known Sixth Avenue restaurant regularly visited by Glackens and many of his associates. This lush painting portrays a robust, red-tied James B. Moore, restaurateur and middle-aged bon vivant, at a table with one of the many young women he squired about town. He is drinking, while the lady is turned away, looking somewhat less interested in the convivial scene around them. The backs of their heads are reflected in the mirror behind them, as are the faces and profiles of others, including Edith Glackens and her art critic brother-in-law, Charles Fitzgerald. The painting is often compared to those of Degas, but “the sense of despair in Degas’s [cafe] pictures is replaced in the Glackens by a buoyant 'joie de vivre.'\"\n\n\"Portrait of the Artist’s Wife\", in the collection of the Wadsworth Atheneum, portrays Edith Glackens seated next to a fruit still life. It is one of many of Glackens’ family portraits; he also painted likenesses of several members of The Eight, which are among his most notable works. The portrait of his wife does not idealize Edith. Rather, Glackens “frankly acknowledges her pert nose and small chin,” while still depicting her as an imposing but inviting presence. Among New York artists and artists' wives, Edith was known as a formal yet gracious and empathetic woman, impressions which her husband's portrait confirms.\n\nCollector Albert C. Barnes bought many of Glackens’ best paintings, some of which are exhibited by the Barnes Foundation in Philadelphia. Gertrude Vanderbilt Whitney and Juliana Force were admirers and purchased works for the collection of the Whitney Museum of American Art. Duncan Phillips purchased a Glackens oil for the Phillips Collection in Washington, D.C.\n\nThe largest collection of Glackens' art has been housed since 2001 at NSU Art Museum Fort Lauderdale, where an entire wing is dedicated to his work; the museum holds approximately 500 Glackens paintings in its permanent collection.\n\n1908: \"The Eight Exhibition\": Macbeth Galleries, New York City\n1910: \"Exhibition of Independent Artists\": traveling exhibition\n1913: \"The Armory Show\": New York\n1937: \"New York Realists\": Whitney Museum of American Art\n1938: \"William Glackens: Memorial Exhibition\": Whitney Museum of American Art\n1943: \"The Eight\": Brooklyn Museum of Art\n1992: \"Painters of a New Century: The Eight and American Art\": The Brooklyn Museum\n1995: \"Metropolitan Lives: The Ashcan Artists and Their New York\": National Museum of American Art\n2000: \"City Life Around the Eight\": Metropolitan Museum of Art\n2002: \"Scenes of American Life: Treasures from the Smithsonian American Art Museum\": Dayton Art Institute\n2007: \"Life's Pleasures: The Ashcan Artists' Brush with Leisure, 1895-1925\": New York Historical Society, \n2014-15: \"\"William Glackens, Artist and Friend\"\": Barnes Foundation\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2126969", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126969", "title": "Hendrie", "text": "Hendrie\n\nHendrie is a surname of the Scottish Clan Henderson.\n\nNotable people with a Hendrie surname include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2126972", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126972", "title": "Akin Gump Strauss Hauer &amp; Feld", "text": "Akin Gump Strauss Hauer &amp; Feld\n\nAkin Gump Strauss Hauer & Feld LLP, its largest office in Washington, D.C., is an American international law firm and the largest lobbying firm in the United States by revenue. With more than 900 attorneys, the firm has offices in Dallas, Washington, D.C., San Antonio, Houston, Irvine, Fort Worth, New York, Moscow, Philadelphia, London, Los Angeles, San Francisco, Beijing, Hong Kong, Singapore, Abu Dhabi, Dubai, Frankfurt, Geneva and Hartford. Akin Gump is widely considered to be among the most profitable and prestigious firms in the nation and has been consistently ranked as among the top law firms in the United States by \"The American Lawyer.\" The firm is known for its influence on Capitol Hill and its representation of high-profile clients. With regard to compensation, Akin Gump is ranked by associates as one of the top 10 highest-paying law firms in the country.\n\nThe firm was founded in Dallas, Texas, in 1945 by Robert Strauss and Richard Gump. It maintains a large presence in Texas with a total of five offices in the state.\n\nIn early September 1950, Strauss and Gump added Irving Goldberg and William P. Fonville to the firm, which was then renamed Goldberg, Fonville, Gump & Strauss. \n\nIn 1963, Jack Hauer left a competitor to join the firm, which became known as Goldberg, Fonville, Gump, Strauss & Hauer.\n\nGoldberg left the firm in 1966 to accept a federal judgeship on the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit. He was replaced by Henry Akin. Fonville’s departure—and the ascent to named partner status of Alan Feld, who had joined the firm in 1960—gave the firm the name it currently bears.\n\nIn 2012, the firm's partnership elected Kim Koopersmith to serve as the firm's chairperson. She succeeded R. Bruce McLean, who had helmed the firm for 20 years and became the first woman to chair the firm and one of the few women up to that time to head an Am Law 50 law firm. \n\nIn 2013, Akin Gump adopted a \"single tier\" partnership structure, in which all partners have equity, abandoning the more popular \"two tier\" structure in which many partners have no equity interest.\n\nIn 2017, Akin Gump hired its first chief diversity and inclusion officer, Michele Meyer-Shipp, who joined the firm from Prudential Financial. She was succeeded by Nimesh Patel, who joined the firm in February 2019.\nAccording to the Center for Responsive Politics, Akin Gump was one of the top law firms contributing to federal candidates during the 2012 election cycle, donating $2.56 million, 66% to Democrats. By comparison, during that same period Kirkland & Ellis donated $2.49 million, 59% to Republicans, while oil conglomerate ExxonMobil donated $2.66 million, 88% to Republicans. Since 1990, Akin Gump has contributed $19.84 million to federal candidates, and since 2003 has spent $8 million on lobbying.\n\nThe firm's clients includes the governments of Japan, South Korea, the Maldives, and Nicaragua.\n\nPaul Manafort, a central figure in the 2017 Special Counsel investigation, was being represented by Melissa Laurenza, a partner of the firm. Melissa Laurenza's role in the Russian investigation centers from her representation of Manafort. The United States Office of Special Counsel compelled Melissa Laurenza to testify in the case. In October 2017, \"New York University law professor Stephen Gillers said the judge was persuaded that there was significant evidence Manafort and Gates had duped their lawyer into sending inaccurate letters to Justice about their lobbying efforts and about what emails might exist about the work.\"\n\nIn 2019 lawyers from this firm represented Catherine Croft, US State Department Ukraine Specialist, when giving testimony to the Select Committee on Intelligence, US House of Representatives.\n\nIn 2018, the firm was again selected for The American Lawyer's A-List, the annual ranking of the country's 20 leading law firms. 2017 marked the firm's 15th appearance on \"Corporate Board Member\"'s list of the nation's top 20 corporate law firms. In 2019, for the 11th year out of the last 12, Akin Gump was named to The National Law Journal's \"Appellate Hot List\" of firms that \"[won] big in federal and state appeals courts across the country.\"\n\nYale Law Women, the largest student organization at Yale Law School, named Akin Gump to its 2019 list of Top 10 Firms for Family Friendliness. In October 2017, the Minority Corporate Counsel Association presented Akin Gump with the Thomas L. Sager Award in recognition of the firm's \"sustained commitment to improving the hiring, retention and promotion of diverse attorneys.\" (The firm won the award four times previously.) In 2019, for the 12th year in a row, Akin Gump received a perfect score on the Human Rights Campaign's Corporate Equality Index, which rates employers on their treatment of gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgender employees, consumers and investors.\nChambers & Partners ranks the firm as top tier in 11 areas of practice around the globe including in bankruptcy/restructuring/insolvency, capital markets: debt, government relations, healthcare and Native American law.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2126983", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126983", "title": "Gérard Blitz (swimmer)", "text": "Gérard Blitz (swimmer)\n\nGérard Blitz (1 August 1901 – 8 March 1979) was a Belgian Olympic swimmer and water polo player who competed at the 1920, 1924, 1928 and 1936 Olympics. He was the younger brother of Maurice Blitz, also a water polo player, and uncle of Gérard Blitz who founded Club Med in 1950.\n\nAt the 1920 Summer Olympics Blitz won a bronze medal in the 100 m backstroke, and a silver medal with the Belgian water polo team, which also included his brother Maurice. He failed to reach the finals of the 100 m and 4 × 200 m freestyle events.\n\nOn 16 September 1921 he set a world record in the 400 m backstroke at 5:59.2, that lasted until 1927.\n\nAt the 1924 Summer Olympics, the Blitz brothers were still part of the Belgian water polo squad. The team won another silver medal. Blitz also finished fourth in the 100 m backstroke swimming event. He had little luck at the 1928 Games, as his water polo team finished fifth, and he was eliminated in the heats of his swimming events. Eight years later, at the Berlin Games, he won his last Olympic medal, a bronze in water polo. He played all seven matches. Blitz was one of a number of Jewish athletes who won medals at the 1936 Nazi Olympics.\n\nBlitz died in 1979. In 1990 he was inducted in the International Swimming Hall of Fame.\n\n"}
{"id": "2126984", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126984", "title": "Small Tight Aspect Ratio Tokamak", "text": "Small Tight Aspect Ratio Tokamak\n\nThe Small Tight Aspect Ratio Tokamak, or START was a nuclear fusion experiment that used magnetic confinement to hold plasma. START was the first full-sized machine to use the spherical tokamak design, which aimed to greatly reduce the aspect ratio of the traditional tokamak design.\n\nThe experiment began at the Culham Science Centre in the United Kingdom in 1990 and was retired in 1998. It was built as a low cost design, largely using parts already available to the START team. The START experiment revolutionized the tokamak by changing the previous toroidal shape into a tighter, almost spherical, doughnut shape. The new shape increased efficiency by reducing the cost over the conventional design, while the field required to maintain a stable plasma was a factor of 10 less.\n\nThe main components that comprised START included the support structure, pulse transformer, vacuum tank, toroidal and poloidal field coils, and a limiter. The support structure positioned and supported the vacuum tank which also shared the same spherical center as the large pulse transformer. The main role of the pulse transformer was to provide the current for the toroidal field coils which was supplied through fifteen irons cores that were spirally wound from a .03 millimeter iron strip. The toroidal field coil was a central conductor made of copper on the axis of the vacuum tank, and was attached to the vacuum tank through copper limbs covered by insulated clamps. START had six poloidal field coils within the vacuum tank and were encased in 3 millimeter stainless steel cases. The poloidal coils were supported from the base of the tank and each could be adjusted as necessary. The vacuum tank was the primary vessel where experiments take place; it was cylindrical in shape and was divided into three sections. The tank offered numerous ports for the attachment of pumps and diagnostics. A graphite limiter was positioned around the central stainless steel tube and this provided a simple way to measure the innermost edge of the plasma during experiments.\n\nIn order to successfully heat experiments in a spherical tokamak, physicists performed neutral beam injection. This involved interjecting hydrogen into hydrogen or deuterium plasmas, providing effective heating of both ions and electrons. Although the atoms were injected with no net electrostatic charge, as the beam passed through the plasma, the atoms were ionized as they bounced off the ions already in the plasma. Consequently, because the magnetic field inside the torus was circular, these fast ions were confined to the background plasma. The background plasma slowed down the confined fast ions, in a similar way to how air resistance slows down a baseball. The energy transfer from the fast ions to the plasma increased the overall plasma temperature. The neutral beam injector used in START was on loan from Oak Ridge National Laboratory.\n\nThe magneto-hydro-dynamic limit (MHD) was an operational limit of tokamaks, with START being no exception. The START team would test the MHD using forty-six sets of Mirnov coils at different heights on the center column of START. Plasmas being formed by compression within START limited the fluctuation of the MHD.\n\nPrior to October 1995, START had no rapid terminations. In October 1995, divertor coils were installed and images showed the plasma would interact with the coils before disruptions occurred. These suspicions were further strengthened when the divertor coils were moved closer to the plasma in December 1996, which resulted in a higher frequency of disruptions.\n\nThe characteristics of plasma within START were also measured. Typical plasma within START had an aspect ratio \"A\"=1.3, elongation k=1.8, and a temperature of 400 eV.\n\nA number of experiments reached 32 percent beta with START, where the previous world record for beta in a tokamak was 12.6 percent. Factors that contributed to the significantly higher beta number include better vacuum conditions, a more powerful neutral beam injection, a lower toroidal field, a higher plasma pressure, and a lower magnetic pressure.\n\nIn March 1998, the START experiment finished and has since been disassembled and transferred to the ENEA research laboratory at Frascati, Italy. The START team began the Mega Ampere Spherical Tokamak Experiment or MAST in 1999 which operated in the Culham Science Centre, UK until 2013.\n\n"}
{"id": "2126992", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2126992", "title": "Moravo, Moravo!", "text": "Moravo, Moravo!\n\n\"Moravo, Moravo!\" (\"Moravia, Moravia!\") is a Czech patriotic song written by Václav Hanka, who claimed that it was an old Moravian folk song. Today it is sometimes used as an unofficial Moravian national anthem.\n"}
{"id": "2127029", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2127029", "title": "Thomas Bell (zoologist)", "text": "Thomas Bell (zoologist)\n\nThomas Bell FRS (11 October 1792 – 13 March 1880) was an English zoologist, surgeon and writer, born in Poole, Dorset, England.\n\nBell, like his mother Susan, took a keen interest in natural history which his mother also encouraged in his younger cousin Philip Henry Gosse. Bell left Poole in 1813 for his training as a dental surgeon in London. He combined two careers, becoming Professor of Zoology at King's College London in 1836 (on the strength of amateur research) and lecturing on anatomy at Guy's Hospital. He became a fellow of the Royal College of Surgeons in 1844. He was President of the Linnean Society in 1858.\n\nBell was at the heart of the scientific establishment and when Charles Darwin returned to London from the \"Beagle\" expedition on 2 December 1836, Bell was quick to take on the task of describing the reptile specimens. He was also entrusted with the specimens of Crustacea collected on the voyage. He was the authority in this field; his book \"British Stalke-eyed Crustacea\" is a masterwork. He played a significant part in the inception of Darwin's theory of natural selection in March 1837 when he confirmed that the giant Galápagos tortoises were native to the islands, not brought in by buccaneers for food as Darwin had thought. He supported the arrangements for publication of \"Zoology of the Voyage of H.M.S. Beagle\", but then was very slow to make progress on the work, and though the first parts of work were published in 1838, Bell's contribution on reptiles (\"Part 5\") was published in two numbers, in 1842 and 1843, and he subsequently failed to take any action on the Crustacea.\n\nAs President of the Linnean Society he chaired the meeting on 1 July 1858 at which Darwin and Alfred Russel Wallace first published their theories on natural selection in the joint presentation of papers \"On the Tendency of Species to form Varieties; and on the Perpetuation of Varieties and Species by Natural Means of Selection\". He apparently disapproved, and in his annual presidential report presented in May 1859 wrote that \"The year which has passed has not, indeed, been marked by any of those striking discoveries which at once revolutionize, so to speak, the department of science on which they bear\".\n\nIn his seventieth year Bell retired to \"The Wakes\", a house at Selborne, where he took a keen interest in its former resident, the amateur naturalist Gilbert White. In 1877 he published a new edition of White's book \"The Natural History of Selborne\". Bell died at Selborne in 1880.\n\nBell married Jane Sarah, daughter of William Roberts, Esq., at St Mary's Church, Rotherhithe on 3 December 1832. The couple had one child, a daughter, Susan Gosse, born 29 March 1836. Susan pre-deceased her parents on 4 January 1854. Jane died on 29 June 1873.\n\nA few of Bell's works were illustrated by Jane, who signed herself \"Jane S. Bell\".\n\nBell is commemorated in the scientific names of several species and subspecies of reptiles.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2127046", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2127046", "title": "Marine pollution", "text": "Marine pollution\n\nMarine pollution occurs when harmful effects result from the entry into the ocean of chemicals, particles, industrial, agricultural and residential waste, noise, or the spread of invasive organisms. Eighty percent of marine pollution comes from land. Air pollution is also a contributing factor by carrying off pesticides or dirt into the ocean. Land and air pollution have proven to be harmful to marine life and its habitats.\n\nThe pollution often comes from nonpoint sources such as agricultural runoff, wind-blown debris, and dust. Pollution in large bodies of water can be aggravated by physical phenomena like the biological effects of Langmuir circulation. Nutrient pollution, a form of water pollution, refers to contamination by excessive inputs of nutrients. It is a primary cause of eutrophication of surface waters, in which excess nutrients, usually nitrates or phosphates, stimulate algae growth. Many potentially toxic chemicals adhere to tiny particles which are then taken up by plankton and benthic animals, most of which are either deposit feeders or filter feeders. In this way, the toxins are concentrated upward within ocean food chains. Many particles combine chemically in a manner highly depletive of oxygen, causing estuaries to become anoxic.\n\nWhen pesticides are incorporated into the marine ecosystem, they quickly become absorbed into marine food webs. Once in the food webs, these pesticides can cause mutations, as well as diseases, which can be harmful to humans as well as the entire food web. Toxic metals can also be introduced into marine food webs. These can cause a change to tissue matter, biochemistry, behaviour, reproduction, and suppress growth in marine life. Also, many animal feeds have a high fish meal or fish hydrolysate content. In this way, marine toxins can be transferred to land animals, and appear later in meat and dairy products.\n\nIn order to protect the ocean from marine pollution, policies have been developed internationally. There are different ways for the ocean to get polluted, therefore there have been multiple laws, policies, and treaties put into place throughout history.\n\nAlthough marine pollution has a long history, significant international laws to counter it were not enacted until the twentieth century. Marine pollution was a concern during several United Nations Conventions on the Law of the Sea beginning in the 1950s. Most scientists believed that the oceans were so vast that they had unlimited ability to dilute, and thus render pollution harmless.\n\nIn the late 1950s and early 1960s, there were several controversies about dumping radioactive waste off the coasts of the United States by companies licensed by the Atomic Energy Commission, into the Irish Sea from the British reprocessing facility at Windscale, and into the Mediterranean Sea by the French Commissariat à l'Energie Atomique. After the Mediterranean Sea controversy, for example, Jacques Cousteau became a worldwide figure in the campaign to stop marine pollution. Marine pollution made further international headlines after the 1967 crash of the oil tanker Torrey Canyon, and after the 1969 Santa Barbara oil spill off the coast of California.\n\nMarine pollution was a major area of discussion during the 1972 United Nations Conference on the Human Environment, held in Stockholm. That year also saw the signing of the Convention on the Prevention of Marine Pollution by Dumping of Wastes and Other Matter, sometimes called the London Convention. The London Convention did not ban marine pollution, but it established black and gray lists for substances to be banned (black) or regulated by national authorities (gray). Cyanide and high-level radioactive waste, for example, were put on the black list. The London Convention applied only to waste dumped from ships, and thus did nothing to regulate waste discharged as liquids from pipelines.\n\nThere are many ways to categorize and examine the inputs of pollution into marine ecosystems. Patin (n.d.) notes that generally there are three main types of inputs of pollution into the ocean: direct discharge of waste into the oceans, runoff into the waters due to rain, and pollutants released from the atmosphere.\n\nOne common path of entry by contaminants to the sea are rivers. The evaporation of water from oceans exceeds precipitation. The balance is restored by rain over the continents entering rivers and then being returned to the sea. The Hudson in New York State and the Raritan in New Jersey, which empty at the northern and southern ends of Staten Island, are a source of mercury contamination of zooplankton (copepods) in the open ocean. The highest concentration in the filter-feeding copepods is not at the mouths of these rivers but south, nearer Atlantic City, because water flows close to the coast. It takes a few days before toxins are taken up by the plankton.\n\nPollution is often classed as point source or nonpoint source pollution. Point source pollution occurs when there is a single, identifiable, localized source of the pollution. An example is directly discharging sewage and industrial waste into the ocean. Pollution such as this occurs particularly in developing nations. Nonpoint source pollution occurs when the pollution comes from ill-defined and diffuse sources. These can be difficult to regulate. Agricultural runoff and wind blown debris are prime examples.\n\nPollutants enter rivers and the sea directly from urban sewerage and industrial waste discharges, sometimes in the form of hazardous and toxic wastes, or in the form of plastics.\n\nIn a study published by \"Science\", Jambeck \"et al.\" (2015) estimated that the 10 largest emitters of oceanic plastic pollution worldwide are, from the most to the least, China, Indonesia, Philippines, Vietnam, Sri Lanka, Thailand, Egypt, Malaysia, Nigeria, and Bangladesh.\n\nInland mining for copper, gold, etc., is another source of marine pollution. Most of the pollution is simply soil, which ends up in rivers flowing to the sea. However, some minerals discharged in the course of the mining can cause problems, such as copper, a common industrial pollutant, which can interfere with the life history and development of coral polyps. Mining has a poor environmental track record. For example, according to the United States Environmental Protection Agency, mining has contaminated portions of the headwaters of over 40% of watersheds in the western continental US. Much of this pollution finishes up in the sea.\n\nSurface runoff from farming, as well as urban runoff and runoff from the construction of roads, buildings, ports, channels, and harbours, can carry soil and particles laden with carbon, nitrogen, phosphorus, and minerals. This nutrient-rich water can cause fleshy algae and phytoplankton to thrive in coastal areas; known as algal blooms, which have the potential to create hypoxic conditions by using all available oxygen. In the coast of southwest Florida, harmful algal blooms have existed for over 100 years. These algal blooms have been a cause of species of fish, turtles, dolphins, and shrimp to die and cause harmful effects on humans who swim in the water.\n\nPolluted runoff from roads and highways can be a significant source of water pollution in coastal areas. About 75% of the toxic chemicals that flow into Puget Sound are carried by stormwater that runs off paved roads and driveways, rooftops, yards and other developed land. In California, there are many rainstorms that runoff into the ocean. These rainstorms occur from October to March, and these runoff waters contain petroleum, heavy metals, pollutants from emissions, etc.\n\nIn China, there is a large coastal population that pollutes the ocean through land runoff. This includes sewage discharge and pollution from urbanization and land use. In 2001, more than 66,795 mi² of the Chinese coastal ocean waters were rated less than Class I of the Sea Water Quality Standard of China. Much of this pollution came from Ag, Cu, Cd, Pb, As, DDT, PCBs, etc., which occurred from contamination through land runoff.\n\nShips can pollute waterways and oceans in many ways. Oil spills can have devastating effects. While being toxic to marine life, polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs), found in crude oil, are very difficult to clean up, and last for years in the sediment and marine environment.\n\nOil spills are probably the most emotive of marine pollution events. However, while a tanker wreck may result in extensive newspaper headlines, much of the oil in the world's seas comes from other smaller sources, such as tankers discharging ballast water from oil tanks used on return ships, leaking pipelines or engine oil disposed of down sewers.\n\nDischarge of cargo residues from bulk carriers can pollute ports, waterways, and oceans. In many instances vessels intentionally discharge illegal wastes despite foreign and domestic regulation prohibiting such actions. An absence of national standards provides an incentive for some cruise liners to dump waste in places where the penalties are inadequate. It has been estimated that container ships lose over 10,000 containers at sea each year (usually during storms). Ships also create noise pollution that disturbs natural wildlife, and water from ballast tanks can spread harmful algae and other invasive species.\n\nBallast water taken up at sea and released in port is a major source of unwanted exotic marine life. The invasive freshwater zebra mussels, native to the Black, Caspian, and Azov seas, were probably transported to the Great Lakes via ballast water from a transoceanic vessel. Meinesz believes that one of the worst cases of a single invasive species causing harm to an ecosystem can be attributed to a seemingly harmless jellyfish. \"Mnemiopsis leidyi\", a species of comb jellyfish that spread so it now inhabits estuaries in many parts of the world, was first introduced in 1982, and thought to have been transported to the Black Sea in a ship's ballast water. The population of the jellyfish grew exponentially and, by 1988, it was wreaking havoc upon the local fishing industry. \"The anchovy catch fell from 204,000 tons in 1984 to 200 tons in 1993; sprat from 24,600 tons in 1984 to 12,000 tons in 1993; horse mackerel from 4,000 tons in 1984 to zero in 1993.\" Now that the jellyfish have exhausted the zooplankton, including fish larvae, their numbers have fallen dramatically, yet they continue to maintain a stranglehold on the ecosystem.\n\nInvasive species can take over once occupied areas, facilitate the spread of new diseases, introduce new genetic material, alter underwater seascapes, and jeopardize the ability of native species to obtain food. Invasive species are responsible for about $138 billion annually in lost revenue and management costs in the US alone.\n\nAnother pathway of pollution occurs through the atmosphere. Wind-blown dust and debris, including plastic bags, are blown seaward from landfills and other areas. Dust from the Sahara moving around the southern periphery of the subtropical ridge moves into the Caribbean and Florida during the warm season as the ridge builds and moves northward through the subtropical Atlantic. Dust can also be attributed to a global transport from the Gobi and Taklamakan deserts across Korea, Japan, and the Northern Pacific to the Hawaiian Islands.\n\nSince 1970, dust outbreaks have worsened due to periods of drought in Africa. There is a large variability in dust transport to the Caribbean and Florida from year to year; however, the flux is greater during positive phases of the North Atlantic Oscillation. The USGS links dust events to a decline in the health of coral reefs across the Caribbean and Florida, primarily since the 1970s.\n\nClimate change is raising ocean temperatures and raising levels of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere. These rising levels of carbon dioxide are acidifying the oceans. This, in turn, is altering aquatic ecosystems and modifying fish distributions, with impacts on the sustainability of fisheries and the livelihoods of the communities that depend on them. Healthy ocean ecosystems are also important for the mitigation of climate change.\n\nDeep sea mining is a relatively new mineral retrieval process that takes place on the ocean floor. Ocean mining sites are usually around large areas of polymetallic nodules or active and extinct hydrothermal vents at about 1,400 – 3,700 meters below the ocean's surface. The vents create sulfide deposits, which contain precious metals such as silver, gold, copper, manganese, cobalt, and zinc. The deposits are mined using either hydraulic pumps or bucket systems that take ore to the surface to be processed. As with all mining operations, deep sea mining raises questions about environmental damages to the surrounding areas.\n\nBecause deep sea mining is a relatively new field, the complete consequences of full-scale mining operations are unknown. However, experts are certain that removal of parts of the sea floor will result in disturbances to the benthic layer, increased toxicity of the water column, and sediment plumes from tailings. Removing parts of the sea floor disturbs the habitat of benthic organisms, possibly, depending on the type of mining and location, causing permanent disturbances. Aside from direct impact of mining the area, leakage, spills, and corrosion would alter the mining area's chemical makeup.\n\nAmong the impacts of deep sea mining, sediment plumes could have the greatest impact. Plumes are caused when the tailings from mining (usually fine particles) are dumped back into the ocean, creating a cloud of particles floating in the water. Two types of plumes occur: near-bottom plumes and surface plumes. Near-bottom plumes occur when the tailings are pumped back down to the mining site. The floating particles increase the turbidity, or cloudiness, of the water, clogging filter-feeding apparatuses used by benthic organisms. Surface plumes cause a more serious problem. Depending on the size of the particles and water currents the plumes could spread over vast areas. The plumes could impact zooplankton and light penetration, in turn affecting the food web of the area.\n\nThe oceans are normally a natural carbon sink, absorbing carbon dioxide from the atmosphere. Because the levels of atmospheric carbon dioxide are increasing, the oceans are becoming more acidic.\nThe potential consequences of ocean acidification are not fully understood, but there are concerns that structures made of calcium carbonate may become vulnerable to dissolution, affecting corals and the ability of shellfish to form shells.\n\nOceans and coastal ecosystems play an important role in the global carbon cycle and have removed about 25% of the carbon dioxide emitted by human activities between 2000 and 2007 and about half the anthropogenic CO released since the start of the industrial revolution. Rising ocean temperatures and ocean acidification means that the capacity of the ocean carbon sink will gradually get weaker, giving rise to global concerns expressed in the Monaco and Manado Declarations.\n\nA report from NOAA scientists published in the journal Science in May 2008 found that large amounts of relatively acidified water are upwelling to within four miles of the Pacific continental shelf area of North America. This area is a critical zone where most local marine life lives or is born. While the paper dealt only with areas from Vancouver to northern California, other continental shelf areas may be experiencing similar effects.\n\nA related issue is the methane clathrate reservoirs found under sediments on the ocean floors. These trap large amounts of the greenhouse gas methane, which ocean warming has the potential to release. In 2004 the global inventory of ocean methane clathrates was estimated to occupy between one and five million cubic kilometres. If all these clathrates were to be spread uniformly across the ocean floor, this would translate to a thickness between three and fourteen metres. This estimate corresponds to 500–2500 gigatonnes carbon (Gt C), and can be compared with the 5000 Gt C estimated for all other fossil fuel reserves.\n\nEutrophication is an increase in chemical nutrients, typically compounds containing nitrogen or phosphorus, in an ecosystem. It can result in an increase in the ecosystem's primary productivity (excessive plant growth and decay), and further effects including lack of oxygen and severe reductions in water quality, fish, and other animal populations.\n\nThe biggest culprit are rivers that empty into the ocean, and with it the many chemicals used as fertilizers in agriculture as well as waste from livestock and humans. An excess of oxygen-depleting chemicals in the water can lead to hypoxia and the creation of a dead zone.\n\nEstuaries tend to be naturally eutrophic because land-derived nutrients are concentrated where runoff enters the marine environment in a confined channel. The World Resources Institute has identified 375 hypoxic coastal zones around the world, concentrated in coastal areas in Western Europe, the Eastern and Southern coasts of the US, and East Asia, particularly in Japan. In the ocean, there are frequent red tide algae blooms that kill fish and marine mammals and cause respiratory problems in humans and some domestic animals when the blooms reach close to shore.\n\nIn addition to land runoff, atmospheric anthropogenic fixed nitrogen can enter the open ocean. A study in 2008 found that this could account for around one third of the ocean's external (non-recycled) nitrogen supply and up to three per cent of the annual new marine biological production. It has been suggested that accumulating reactive nitrogen in the environment may have consequences as serious as putting carbon dioxide in the atmosphere.\n\nOne proposed solution to eutrophication in estuaries is to restore shellfish populations, such as oysters. Oyster reefs remove nitrogen from the water column and filter out suspended solids, subsequently reducing the likelihood or extent of harmful algal blooms or anoxic conditions. Filter feeding activity is considered beneficial to water quality by controlling phytoplankton density and sequestering nutrients, which can be removed from the system through shellfish harvest, buried in the sediments, or lost through denitrification. Foundational work toward the idea of improving marine water quality through shellfish cultivation to was conducted by Odd Lindahl et al., using mussels in Sweden.\n\nMarine debris is mainly discarded human rubbish which floats on, or is suspended in the ocean. Eighty percent of marine debris is plastic – a component that has been rapidly accumulating since the end of World War II. The mass of plastic in the oceans may be as high as .\n\nIn a study published by \"Environmental Science & Technology\", Schmidt \"et al.\" (2017) calculated that the Yangtze, Indus, Yellow River, Hai River, Nile, Ganges, Pearl River, Amur, Niger, and the Mekong \"transport 88–95% of the global [plastics] load into the sea.\"\n\nDiscarded plastic bags, six pack rings, cigarette butts and other forms of plastic waste which finish up in the ocean present dangers to wildlife and fisheries. Aquatic life can be threatened through entanglement, suffocation, and ingestion.\nFishing nets, usually made of plastic, can be left or lost in the ocean by fishermen. Known as ghost nets, these entangle fish, dolphins, sea turtles, sharks, dugongs, crocodiles, seabirds, crabs, and other creatures, restricting movement, causing starvation, laceration, infection, and, in those that need to return to the surface to breathe, suffocation.\nMany animals that live on or in the sea consume flotsam by mistake, as it often looks similar to their natural prey. Plastic debris, when bulky or tangled, is difficult to pass, and may become permanently lodged in the digestive tracts of these animals. Especially when evolutionary adaptions make it impossible for the likes of turtles to reject plastic bags, which resemble jellyfish when immersed in water, as they have a system in their throat to stop slippery foods from otherwise escaping. Thereby blocking the passage of food and causing death through starvation or infection.\n\nPlastics accumulate because they don't biodegrade in the way many other substances do. They will photodegrade on exposure to the sun, but they do so properly only under dry conditions, and water inhibits this process. In marine environments, photodegraded plastic disintegrates into ever-smaller pieces while remaining polymers, even down to the molecular level. When floating plastic particles photodegrade down to zooplankton sizes, jellyfish attempt to consume them, and in this way the plastic enters the ocean food chain.\n\nMany of these long-lasting pieces end up in the stomachs of marine birds and animals, including sea turtles, and black-footed albatross. In a 2008 Pacific Gyre voyage, Algalita Marine Research Foundation researchers began finding that fish are ingesting plastic fragments and debris. Of the 672 fish caught during that voyage, 35% had ingested plastic pieces.\n\nPlastic debris tends to accumulate at the centre of ocean gyres. The North Pacific Gyre, for example, has collected the so-called \"Great Pacific Garbage Patch\", which is now estimated to be one to twenty times the size of Texas (approximately from 700,000 to 15,000,000 square kilometers). There could be as much plastic as fish in the sea. It has a very high level of plastic particulate suspended in the upper water column. In samples taken in 1999, the mass of plastic exceeded that of zooplankton (the dominant animal life in the area) by a factor of six.\nMidway Atoll, in common with all the Hawaiian Islands, receives substantial amounts of debris from the garbage patch. Ninety percent plastic, this debris accumulates on the beaches of Midway where it becomes a hazard to the bird population of the island. Midway Atoll is home to two-thirds (1.5 million) of the global population of Laysan albatross. Nearly all of these albatross have plastic in their digestive system and one-third of their chicks die.\n\nToxic additives used in the manufacture of plastic materials can leach out into their surroundings when exposed to water. Waterborne hydrophobic pollutants collect and magnify on the surface of plastic debris, thus making plastic far more deadly in the ocean than it would be on land. Hydrophobic contaminants are also known to bioaccumulate in fatty tissues, biomagnifying up the food chain and putting pressure on apex predators. Some plastic additives are known to disrupt the endocrine system when consumed, others can suppress the immune system or decrease reproductive rates.\n\nFloating debris can also absorb persistent organic pollutants from seawater, including PCBs, DDT, and PAHs. Aside from toxic effects, when ingested some of these affect animal brain cells similarly to estradiol, causing hormone disruption in the affected wildlife.\nSaido, a chemist with the College of Pharmacy, conducted a study in Nihon University, Chiba, Japan, that discovered, when plastics eventually decompose, they produce potentially toxic bisphenol A (BPA) and PS oligomer into the water. These toxins are believed to bring harm to the marine life living in the area.\n\nA growing concern regarding plastic pollution in the marine ecosystem is the use of microplastics. Microplastics are little beads of plastic less than 5 millimeters wide, and they are commonly found in hand soaps, face cleansers, and other exfoliators. When these products are used, the microplastics go through the water filtration system and into the ocean, but because of their small size they are likely to escape capture by the preliminary treatment screens on wastewater plants. These beads are harmful to the organisms in the ocean, especially filter feeders, because they can easily ingest the plastic and become sick. The microplastics are such a concern because it is difficult to clean them up due to their size, so humans can try to avoid using these harmful plastics by purchasing products that use environmentally safe exfoliates.\n\nApart from plastics, there are particular problems with other toxins that do not disintegrate rapidly in the marine environment. Examples of persistent toxins are PCBs, DDT, TBT, pesticides, furans, dioxins, phenols, and radioactive waste. Heavy metals are metallic chemical elements that have a relatively high density and are toxic or poisonous at low concentrations. Examples are mercury, lead, nickel, arsenic, and cadmium. Such toxins can accumulate in the tissues of many species of aquatic life in a process called bioaccumulation. They are also known to accumulate in benthic environments, such as estuaries and bay muds: a geological record of human activities of the last century.\n\nMarine life can be susceptible to noise or the sound pollution from sources such as passing ships, oil exploration seismic surveys, and naval low-frequency active sonar. Sound travels more rapidly and over larger distances in the sea than in the atmosphere. Marine animals, such as cetaceans, often have weak eyesight, and live in a world largely defined by acoustic information. This applies also to many deeper sea fish, who live in a world of darkness. Between 1950 and 1975, ambient noise at one location in the Pacific Ocean increased by about ten decibels (that is a tenfold increase in intensity).\n\nNoise also makes species communicate louder, which is called the Lombard vocal response. Whale songs are longer when submarine-detectors are on. If creatures don't \"speak\" loud enough, their voice can be masked by anthropogenic sounds. These unheard voices might be warnings, finding of prey, or preparations of net-bubbling. When one species begins speaking louder, it will mask other species voices, causing the whole ecosystem to eventually speak louder.\n\nAccording to the oceanographer Sylvia Earle, \"Undersea noise pollution is like the death of a thousand cuts. Each sound in itself may not be a matter of critical concern, but taken all together, the noise from shipping, seismic surveys, and military activity is creating a totally different environment than existed even 50 years ago. That high level of noise is bound to have a hard, sweeping impact on life in the sea.\"\n\nNoise from ships and human activity can damage Cnidarians and Ctenophora, which are very important organisms in the marine ecosystem. They promote high diversity and they are used as models for ecology and biology because of their simple structures. When there is underwater noise, the vibrations in the water damage the cilia hairs in the Coelenterates. In a study, the organisms were exposed to sound waves for different numbers of times and the results showed that damaged hair cells were extruded or missing or presented bent, flaccid or missed kinocilia and stereocilia.\n\nMuch anthropogenic pollution ends up in the ocean. The 2011 edition of the United Nations Environment Programme Year Book identifies as the main emerging environmental issues the loss to the oceans of massive amounts of phosphorus, \"a valuable fertilizer needed to feed a growing global population\", and the impact billions of pieces of plastic waste are having globally on the health of marine environments.\n\nBjorn Jennssen (2003) notes in his article, \"Anthropogenic pollution may reduce biodiversity and productivity of marine ecosystems, resulting in reduction and depletion of human marine food resources\". There are two ways the overall level of this pollution can be mitigated: either the human population is reduced, or a way is found to reduce the ecological footprint left behind by the average human. If the second way is not adopted, then the first way may be imposed as the world ecosystems falter.\n\nThe second way is for humans, individually, to pollute less. That requires social and political will, together with a shift in awareness so more people respect the environment and are less disposed to abuse it. At an operational level, regulations, and international government participation is needed. It is often very difficult to regulate marine pollution because pollution spreads over international barriers, thus making regulations hard to create as well as enforce.\n\nWithout appropriate awareness of marine pollution, the necessary global will to effectively address the issues may prove inadequate. Balanced information on the sources and harmful effects of marine pollution need to become part of general public awareness, and ongoing research is required to fully establish, and keep current, the scope of the issues. As expressed in Daoji and Dag's research, one of the reasons why environmental concern is lacking among the Chinese is because the public awareness is low and therefore should be targeted.\n\nThe amount of awareness on marine pollution is vital to the support of keeping the prevention of trash from entering waterways and ending up in our oceans. The EPA reports that in 2014 Americans generated about 258 million tons of waste, and only a third was recycled or composted. In 2015, there was over 8 million tons of plastic that made it into the ocean. The Ocean Conservancy reported that China, Indonesia, Philippines, Thailand, and Vietnam dump more plastic in the sea than all other countries combined. Through more sustainable packing this could lead to; eliminating toxic constituents, using fewer materials, making more readily available recyclable plastic. However, awareness can only take these initiatives so far. The most abundant plastic is PET (Polyethylene terephthalate) and is the most resistant to biodegradables. Researchers have been making great strides in combating this problem. In one way has been by adding a special polymer called a tetrablock copolymer. The tetrablock copolymer acts as a laminate between the PE and iPP which enables for an easier breakdown but still be tough. Through more awareness, individuals will become more cognizant of their carbon footprints. Also, from research and technology, more strides can be made to aid in the plastic pollution problem.\n\nIn 2018 a survey of Global Oceanic Environmental Survey (GOES) Foundation find that the ecosystem in seas and oceans can collapse in the next 25 years what would fail the terrestrial ecosystem and end the life on earth as we know them. The main causes: Plastic pollution, Ocean acidification, Ocean pollution. For prevent that scenario from happen, we need a total single use plastic ban, ban on wood burning, planting as many trees as possible, \" pollution-free recycling of electronics and by 2030 all industries to be zero toxic discharge.\" \"special protection and perservation of peat bogs, wetlands, marshlands and mangrove swamps to ensure carbon dioxide is absorbed from the atmosphere.\"\n\nJellyfish have been considered a potential mitigating organism for pollution.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2127047", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2127047", "title": "Technical University of Braunschweig", "text": "Technical University of Braunschweig\n\nThe Technische Universität Braunschweig (unofficially University of Braunschweig – Institute of Technology), commonly referred to as TU Braunschweig, is the oldest ' (comparable to an institute of technology in the American system) in Germany. It was founded in 1745 as Collegium Carolinum and is a member of TU9, an incorporated society of the most renowned and largest German institutes of technology. It is commonly ranked among the top universities for engineering in Germany. TU Braunschweig's research profile is very interdisciplinary, but with a focus on aeronautics, vehicle engineering including autonomous driving and electric mobility, manufacturing, life sciences, and metrology. Research is conducted in close collaboration with external organizations such as the German Aerospace Center, Helmholtz Centre for Infection Research, several Fraunhofer Institutes, and Germany's national metrology institute (PTB), among many others. As one of very few research institutions of its type in the world, the university has its own research airport.\n\nIts complete name is \"Technische Universität Braunschweig\". Translating the name into English is discouraged by the university, but its preferred translation is \"University of Braunschweig - Institute of Technology\" or its short form Braunschweig Institute of Technology. While the word \"technology\" in its name implies a focus on science and engineering, it is still a university in the sense that it represents a wide range of subjects. It is subdivided into six faculties with different degree programmes and specialisations.\n\nThe TU Braunschweig focuses its research in four main areas: Future City, Metrology, Mobility and Infections and Therapeutics. The university's researchers cooperate closely with other research institutions in Braunschweig.\n\nThe scientists at the TU Braunschweig are developing concepts for the intelligent future cities. The aim is to find solutions for efficient, eco-friendly, healthy, social and green Smart Cities.\n\nNanoscale materials and components measuring only millionths of a millimetre have become indispensable in many procedures. Their measurement requires new approaches in nanometrology. The Laboratory for Emerging Nanometrology and Analytics (LENA) is investigating the limits of the measurable together with the Physikalisch-Technische Bundesanstalt.\n\nThe researchers are working towards a seamless multimodal mobility system. This focus bundles research in the automotive sector, aerospace technology and rail technology. Important topics are intelligent and interconnected mobility, low-emission vehicles using non-fossil energies and sustainable production. In addition, traffic management, logistics and social impacts are considered. Together with scientists from around the world, TU Braunschweig aims at reducing the number of traffic accidents. The researchers are developing novel materials and surfaces that help reduce fuel consumption and noise, and are developing next-generation energy sources. Interdisciplinary research is tied together in the NFL - Aeronautics Research Centre Niedersachsen and the NFF – Automotive Research Centre Niedersachsen.\n\nThe Braunschweig Integrated Centre of Systems Biology (BRICS) combines natural sciences, engineering and information technology to systems biology. Together with the Helmholtz Centre for Infection Research and the Leibniz Institute DSMZ (German Collection of Microorganisms and Cell Cultures) strategies against infectious microorganisms are developed. This also includes natural substances consisting of microorganisms. The manufacturing and processing of these agents is the subject of the Center of Pharmaceutical Engineering (PVZ).\n\nIn addition to the main areas of research, the research profile of the TU Braunschweig is shaped by several interdisciplinary and interdepartmental research associations, which are structured in research centres.\n\nBLB is a research centre of the TU Braunschweig. The centre is an interdisciplinary research platform for the development of production processes as well as diagnosis and simulation for current lithium-ion batteries and future battery technologies such as solid state and lithium-sulphur batteries. BLB unites 13 professorships from three universities (TU Braunschweig, TU Clausthal, University of Hannover) as well as battery experts from the PTB and integrates the necessary competences along the value chain for excellent R&D in the field of batteries in Lower Saxony.\n\nThe BRICS is an interdisciplinary centre in cooperation with the Helmholtz Centre for Infection Research. Three departments of the Helmholtz Centre as well as institutes from three faculties of the TU Braunschweig work together. At BRICS, microorganisms in the fields of biotechnology and infection research are investigated using systems biology methods. Mathematical models will be used to develop new anti-infectives and new biotechnological production processes.\n\nIn the Laboratory for Emerging Nanometrology, institutes of the TU Braunschweig conduct research together with departments of the Physikalisch-Technische Bundesanstalt. Research topics are nanonormals, method developments as well as ubiquitous sensors and standards. The focus is on the metrology of 3-dimensional Nano systems.\n\nAt the Automotive Research Centre in Lower Saxony, scientists working on the Metropolitan Car are collaborating to find answers to the social and ecological challenges associated with increased urbanization. In addition to the TU Braunschweig, which plays a leading role, the German Aerospace Center (DLR) and Leibniz Universität Hannover are also involved.\n\nThe Technical University of Braunschweig, the DLR and the Leibniz University Hannover are pooling their wide-ranging expertise in the Lower Saxony Research Centre for Aeronautics to promote basic, coordinated research programmes in the field of aeronautics and space technology.\n\nThe researchers at PVZ want to make it possible to produce drugs that are more cost-effective and, for example, exactly tailored to the patient's needs. This aim is to be achieved with new manufacturing technologies. Experts from pharmacy, process engineering and micro technology are working together on a long-term basis in a model that is unique in Germany to date.\nhttps://tools.wmflabs.org/userviews?project=en.wikipedia.org&platform=all-access&agent=user&namespace=0&redirects=0&start=2020-03-02&end=2020-03-22&user=Lkleinjans&sort=title&direction=-1&view=list&user=Lkleinjans\n\nThe university has six faculties (German: \"Fakultäten\"). Some faculties are divided further into departments (German: \"Departments\"). All faculties are additionally divided into numerous institutes.\n\nCommonly known in Germany, and particularly in the field of passive fire protection, as TU Braunschweig, its iBMB Institute has been accredited by the German Institute for Building Technology (\"Deutsches Institut für Bautechnik\") and has, for decades, performed public testing for the purpose of establishing fire-resistance ratings of products and systems for manufacturers. iBMB also assists the DIBt in third-party vendor inspections (product certification) and quality control testing, in an effort to maintain DIBt approvals. iBMB was also instrumental in leading the Eureka project, which has become a guideline for building codes and regulations governing fire protection measures for traffic tunnels.\n\nCurrent and former members of the TU Braunschweig include the mathematicians Carl Friedrich Gauss and Richard Dedekind, Nobel laureates Klaus von Klitzing, Manfred Eigen, and Georg Wittig, aerospace engineer Adolf Busemann, the former CEOs of SAP, Metro Group, and Henkel (Henning Kagermann, Erwin Conradi, and Konrad Henkel), BMW CEO Harald Krüger, Porsche CEO Oliver Blume, Airbus Defence and Space CEO Dirk Hoke, Siemens Mobility CEO Michael Peter, former Eurocopter CEO Lutz Bertling, and truck engineer and entrepreneur Heinrich Büssing of Büssing AG, engineer and founder of Claas KGaA mbH August Claas and world-renowned architect Meinhard von Gerkan.\n\n"}
{"id": "2127062", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2127062", "title": "Great Isaac Cay, Bahamas", "text": "Great Isaac Cay, Bahamas\n\nGreat Isaac Cay is a small Bahamian island located about 20 miles (32 km) NNE of the Bimini Islands. It is accessible only by boat.\n\nThe most prominent feature of the island is its lighthouse, which was erected in 1859, and stands about 151 feet (46 m) tall. It has been claimed that a full moon causes unusual sounds to be heard on the small island. In the late 19th century local lore tells of a ship wreck on the island with one survivor, an infant. The child's distraught mother, known as the Grey Lady, is said to haunt the island to this very day, wailing in sorrow during the full moon.\n\nOn August 4, 1969, the station was discovered to have been abandoned by its two keepers, who were never found. Many believers in the Bermuda Triangle claim that the keepers were two more victims lost to its mysterious forces. However, the hurricane record from 1969 indicates that Hurricane Anna , the first hurricane of 1969, on 1–2 August, passed close enough to Great Isaac Island to cause dangerous weather for the tiny rock island. By the 4th of August, the hurricane was well into the Atlantic Ocean.\n\nThe grounds are open to the public, although the lighthouse itself has had stairs removed to block access to the interior of that structure. The keepers’ house, cistern, and assorted buildings are crumbling into ruins. The derelict collection of abandoned buildings make Great Isaac Cay a popular destination for boaters.\n\n"}
{"id": "2127063", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2127063", "title": "Montserrat College of Art", "text": "Montserrat College of Art\n\nMontserrat College of Art is a private residential college specializing in the visual arts and located in Beverly, Massachusetts.\n\nThe school was established in 1970 as Montserrat School of Visual Arts and offered a diploma program. The school was founded by the North Shore Community Arts Foundation, a civic group that managed the North Shore Music Theatre. Gloucester artist and former head of the Fine Arts Department at New England School of Art and Design Joseph Jeswald was chosen to serve as the school's first president and North Shore Music Theatre founder Stephen Slane was named managing director. The school was accredited as a college and authorized to award the bachelor of fine arts degree in the mid-1980s, at which time it changed to its current name. In 1992 the school moved to its present location off Cabot Street on Essex Street in the Hardie Building, a renovated 19th century school building that serves as the center of the campus. In 2016, the college campus consists of twelve academic and residential owned or leased buildings in and around historic, downtown Beverly, MA, a few blocks from the Atlantic Ocean.\n\nIn early 2015 Montserrat College of Art explored a possible merger with Salem State University, a much larger public institution in a neighboring city. After some months of research and negotiations the proposal was found to be not feasible and the plan was dropped in summer 2015.\n\nCurrently, the campus includes the central Hardie Building located on 23 Essex Street; 248 Cabot street, which is home to liberal arts courses, senior illustration studios, and administrative offices; the 301 Gallery which is home to senior studios and the Sculpture department; and apartment-style residence halls. A residence hall, the Helena J. Sturnick Student Residence Village, was also constructed and opened for the start of the fall 2009 semester. The school emphasizes the positives of its small size, which allows more academic attention to the progress of each individual student. Montserrat has an active student body of 370 students as of Fall 2018.\n\nMontserrat offers Bachelor of Fine Arts degrees, along with optional Creative Writing, Art History, and Art Education minors. It also offers non-credit classes for adults and teens, and for-credit summer programs for high school students. A S.T.E.A.M. program, an educational approach to learning that uses Science, Technology, Engineering, the Arts and Mathematics as access points for guiding student inquiry, dialogue, and critical thinking, is offered in the summer to students in grades three through eight. The college also has articulation agreements with several community colleges.\n\nThe college has study abroad programs in Viterbo, Italy; Mallorca, Spain; Niigata, Japan; and Cusco, Peru, and occasional other sites. Each study abroad program lasts around one month overseas, and features different kinds of classes for students, ex. in Niigata students study printmaking and in Viterbo students study En plein air illustration.\n\nMontserrat is home to four, public galleries which are free and open to the public. The galleries exhibit works by international, national, regional and local artists and each exhibition provides opportunities for the public to meet and hear the artists discuss their work. \n\nThe college has been hosting the 6th Essex District Congressional High School Art competition since 1995. The competition is open to all public, private and home-schooled students in grades 10-12 and the work of each year's winner is sent to Washington DC to be displayed at the capitol for the following year. \n\nEvery spring the college holds a fundraising art art auction, the college's major event benefiting student scholarship.\n\nThe college galleries exhibit the work of prominent international, national and regional contemporary artists and offer free lectures and events intended to take art education beyond the college's classrooms.\n\nAmong the college's alumni are sculptor Carlos Dorrien and painter Carol Schlosberg\n\n"}
{"id": "2127064", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2127064", "title": "Árni Gautur Arason", "text": "Árni Gautur Arason\n\nÁrni Gautur Arason (born 7 May 1975 in Reykjavík) is an Icelandic former football goalkeeper. Árni is also an educated lawyer from the University of Iceland.\n\nHe played for Rosenborg between January 1998 and December 2003, also making several UEFA Champions League appearances for the club. After leaving Rosenborg, he had a brief spell at Manchester City in the spring of 2004, serving as understudy to David James, but only made two FA Cup appearances for the club.\n\nIn the first of these, against Tottenham at White Hart Lane, City found themselves 3–0 down at half time after an abject first half performance, and down to 10 men after Joey Barton had been sent off at the half time whistle. Following a Sylvain Distin header early in the second half, City were 3–1 down when Spurs won a free kick about 25 yards out. Christian Ziege had already beaten Árni from a similar distance in the first half, but this time Árni produced a stunning one handed tip onto the crossbar from a full stretch dive to his left, Gus Poyet could have headed the rebound into an open net, but Árni scrambled back to his right to save this effort too. A goal here would arguably have killed the game off but after the brilliant double save City went on to win 4–3 in what has been described as one of the greatest FA Cup comebacks of all time.\n\nHe subsequently went on to join Vålerenga in 2004.\n\nOn 30 November 2007, Árni's contract expired and he left Vålerenga. In March 2008 he joined South African club Thanda Royal Zulu on a short contract, before moving back to Norway joining Odd Grenland in the summer the same year.\n\nÁrni retired in May 2012 after an operation on his elbow did not produce the results wanted.\n\nHe made his debut in an August 1998 friendly match against Latvia and was a regular for the Icelandic national team, earning in total 71 international caps. He did not feature in competitive matches for the national team after leaving Norwegian club Vålerenga in 2007, his last seven matches were all friendlies, with the last match being a 1-1 home draw against Liechtenstein in August 2010.\n\nIn autumn 2005, Árni had a daughter with his girlfriend Solveig Thorarinsdottir.\n\n\n\nKniksen award as the Norwegian league's goalkeeper of the year in 2001 and 2005.\n"}
{"id": "2127076", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2127076", "title": "Uccle", "text": "Uccle\n\nUccle () or Ukkel () is one of the 19 municipalities located in the Brussels-Capital Region of Belgium. Like all other Brussels municipalities, it is legally bilingual (French–Dutch).\n\nAccording to legend, Uccle's church of St. Peter was dedicated by Pope Leo III in the year 803, with Charlemagne and Gerbald, Bishop of Liège, attending the ceremony. During the following centuries, several noble families built their manors and took residency here. The first mention of the name \"Woluesdal\", now evolved into \"Wolvendael\", dates from 1209. In 1467, Isabella of Portugal, wife of Philip the Good, Duke of Burgundy founded a Franciscan convent on Uccle's territory. Later, Uccle became the judiciary capital of the area including Brussels. Throughout the early stages of its history, however, the village of Uccle always had a predominantly rural character and lived mostly from the products of forestry and agriculture.\n\nAt the end of the 18th century, a few years after the French Revolution, Uccle merged with neighbouring territories to become a commune, with its own burgomaster (mayor) and municipal assembly. It had to wait until 1828, however, for the Dutch authorities to allow the construction of the first town hall. This was a time of economic prosperity and growth, stimulated by the proximity to the two main roads linking Brussels to the industrial south. A newer and larger town hall was built between 1872 and 1882. Banker and philanthropist Georges Brugmann was instrumental to the urbanisation of the municipality just before the turn of the 20th century. In the early 20th century, Michel van Gelder introduced a new breed of chicken, the d'Uccle, named after the town. Despite the accelerated rate of construction that took place in the early 20th century, Uccle succeeded in keeping several of its green areas intact, which now attract many of the Brussels area's wealthier inhabitants.\n\nLying beyond Forest and Ixelles and skirting the Sonian Forest, Uccle is Brussel's largest and southernmost commune. Large, 19th and 20th century villas with generous gardens make this green and calm suburb a favourite with well-off expatriates, with the Art Deco area around the Royal Observatory and the fringes of the Sonian Forest the two most desirable addresses.\n\nA large part of the territory of modern day Uccle used to be part of the Lordship (\"seigneurie\") of Stalle, in addition to the old village of Uccle and the barony of Carloo.\n\nThe first Lords of Stalle (High Justiciaries) were:\n\n\nThis fief was located between the Dieweg and Stalle, it had a manor, a mill called Clipmolen, woods, and pasture. However, in 1465, Marguerite Hinckaert wife of Louis de Mailly, obtained from the sovereign the annexation of this fief to the Lordship of Stalle.\n\nThis fief was located in Neerstalle, between the Kersbeek woods and the Ukkelbeek. Its surface amounted to 39.78 acres of land and meadows and it included the manor of Roetaert.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2127084", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2127084", "title": "VR-5", "text": "VR-5\n\nVR-5 may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2127090", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2127090", "title": "Maurice Blitz", "text": "Maurice Blitz\n\nMaurice Blitz (28 July 1891 – 2 February 1975) was a Belgian Olympic water polo player during the 1920s.\n\nHe was the older brother of sporting champion Gérard Blitz, and father of Gérard Blitz who founded Club Med in 1950.\n\nMaurice Blitz and his brother Gérard were both member of the Belgian water polo national team who won silver in two consecutive olympic events, in 1920 and 1924.\n\nMaurice Blitz, who was Jewish, did not leave the water polo scene once he retired from competitions. He became an international referee (he conducted the Olympic final in 1928), and was a member of the Belgian Olympic Committee and swimming federation.\n\nIn 1948, he founded the swimming and waterpolo club Zwemclub Scaldis in Antwerp.\n\nHe was one of the early financial supporters of Club Med, founded by his son Gérard in 1950.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2127091", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2127091", "title": "Watermael-Boitsfort", "text": "Watermael-Boitsfort\n\nWatermael-Boitsfort (French) or Watermaal-Bosvoorde (Dutch) is a residential suburb of the city of Brussels in Belgium, and one of the 19 municipalities which form the Brussels-Capital Region.\n\nThe municipality has a total area of of which 58 percent is covered by the Sonian Forest (\"Forêt de Soignes\" or \"Zoniënwoud\"). It borders the municipalities of Uccle, Auderghem and Ixelles as well as the province of Flemish Brabant. In 2006 the municipality had a total population of 24,056. Like all of Brussel's municipalities, it is legally bilingual (French–Dutch).\n\nThe modern-day municipality of Watermael-Boitsfort was originally two separate settlements located on a plain between the two small rivers of Woluwe and Watermaelbeek to the north of the Sonian Forest. The earliest evidence of human activity in the region are the remains of a small fortified neolithic village of the Michelsberg culture, dating to between 3500-2500 BC.\n\nThe earliest mention of the name \"Watermael\" is in a document of 914 bequeathing an estate of the name to a French abbey. Originally part of the estate of Watermael, Boitfort became separate after a hunting lodge, on a site adjacent to the forest, was given to the Boutsvoord family by the Duchy of Brabant in the 13th century. During the Middle Ages, inhabitants of the two settlements farmed and raised cattle and a number of hunting lodges on the edge of the forest were built for members of the nobility. The construction of a road to the city of Brussels, to the north, through Boitsfort led to the rapid expansion of both settlements. The population of Watermael rose from 349 inhabitants in 1709 to 826 in 1800.\n\nWatermael-Boitsfort was created in 1811 during the period of French rule when the two municipalities were merged. Although several industries grew in the area during the 19th century, Watermael-Boitsfort remained largely agrarian and increasingly residential, especially after the municipality was linked to Brussels by railway in 1854. It soon became a fashionable, bourgeois neighbourhood. Originally Dutch was the dominant language, but French became dominant after 1920. During the 1920s, two garden cities (\"cité-jardins\"), \"Le Logis\" and \"Floréal\", were built. The municipality's population hit an all-time peak of 25,138 inhabitants in 1970.\n\nWatermael-Boitsfort's first mayor was the liberal Pierre-Théodore Verhaegen, known for his role in the creation of the Free University of Brussels, who held the post between 1820 and 1842.\n\nNotable historic buildings in the municipality include the Church of St Clement of which parts date to the 11th century.\n\nWatermael-Boitsfort is one of Brussels' wealthiest municipalities. In 2002, the average per capita income was 30,100 euros; over 600 euros higher than the average for the Brussels-Capital Region as a whole. 16 percent of its inhabitants were not Belgian citizens; lower than the Brussels average.\n\nSince 2000, the municipal government is dominated by the liberal Mouvement Réformateur, regionalist DéFI (formerly FDF), and green Ecolo parties. The current \"bourgmestre\" (mayor) is Olivier Deleuze of Ecolo.\n\nThere are two railway stations located within the municipality, Watermael railway station and Boitsfort railway station, both of which are located on railway line 161.\n\nThe International School of Brussels (ISB), founded in 1951, is located in Watermael-Boitsfort.\n\nWatermael-Boitsfort regroups many remarkable buildings and former grand country houses.\nBoitsfort is home to Boitsfort Rugby Club, one of Belgium's most successful Rugby Union teams. It is also home to football team Royal Racing Club de Boitsfort.\n\nThe Boitsfort Hippodrome was a horse-racing course, built in 1875 but is no longer used as such. Since 1987, the centre of the course has been occupied by the Brussels Golf Club, which has a nine-hole course, and the former horse racing track is used by runners, bikers and dog-walkers. It frequently acts as the starting point and finish line for local 10 km runs. In 2016, the park, rebranded as DROHME with new investors, saw major renovations of the bleachers (\"la\" \"tribune\" in French) and the jockey-weighing station, which in September 2018 reopened as a brasserie.\n\nNotable people who have lived or worked in Watermael-Boitsfort include:\n\nThe municipality is twinned with:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2127093", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2127093", "title": "Matt &quot;Guitar&quot; Murphy", "text": "Matt &quot;Guitar&quot; Murphy\n\nMatthew Tyler Murphy (December 29, 1929 – June 15, 2018), known as Matt \"Guitar\" Murphy, was an American blues guitarist. He was associated with Memphis Slim, The Blues Brothers and Howlin' Wolf.\n\nMurphy was born in Sunflower, Mississippi, and was educated in Memphis, Tennessee, where his father worked at the Peabody Hotel. Murphy learned to play guitar when he was a child.\n\nIn 1948, Murphy moved to Chicago, where he joined the Howlin' Wolf Band, which at the time featured Little Junior Parker. In 1952, Murphy recorded with Little Junior Parker and Ike Turner, resulting in the release, “You’re My Angel”/“Bad Women, Bad Whiskey”(Modern 864), credited to Little Junior Parker and the Blue Flames.\n\nMurphy worked often with Memphis Slim, including on his debut album \"At the Gate of Horn\" (1959). Murphy recorded two albums with Chuck Berry and was also featured in works by Koko Taylor, Sonny Boy Williamson II, Buddy Guy, Etta James, and Otis Rush. He also performed with Willie Dixon.\n\nHe gave a memorable performance in 1963 on the American Folk Blues Festival tour of Europe with his \"Matt's Guitar Boogie\". Freddie King is said to have once admitted that he based his \"Hide Away\" on Murphy's playing during this performance.\n\nIn the 1970s, Murphy associated with harmonica player James Cotton, recording over six albums. Dan Aykroyd and John Belushi attended one of their performances and subsequently asked Murphy to join the touring band of The Blues Brothers. Murphy appeared in the films \"The Blues Brothers\" (1980) and \"Blues Brothers 2000\" (1998), playing the husband of Aretha Franklin. He performed with the Blues Brothers Band until the early 2000s.\n\nMurphy's signature guitar is manufactured by Cort Guitars. He visited the Cort factory in Korea in 1998, and later that year the MGM-1 was introduced. Most of these guitars have a sunburst or honey finish. They are made of agathis, with a mahogany neck, and have two humbuckers and single volume and tone controls. This model was produced until 2006; 78 were sold, according to factory numbers.\n\nMurphy was inducted into the Blues Hall of Fame in 2012.\n\nMurphy suffered a stroke in the summer of 2002, but returned to perform a few years later.\n\nIn 2011, Murphy married Kathy Hemrick in a private ceremony in South Miami, Florida. A month later they celebrated with an \"open to the public\" reception at Fort Lauderdale, Florida, which also doubled as a release party for the CD \"Last Call\". \n\nHe resided in Miami until his death on June 15, 2018 from a heart attack, aged 88. Murphy's death was first announced on Facebook by his nephew Floyd Murphy Jr. who performed alongside his uncle and who said: \"He was a strong man that lived a long long fruitful life that poured his heart out in every guitar solo he took\".\n\n\"Way Down South\" was Murphy's debut solo album, first released in 1990 with Discovery. It included contributions by his brother Floyd, and remained his most critically acclaimed solo project.\n\n\"The Blues Don't Bother Me!\" was Murphy's second solo album, and the first released with Roesch Records. His nephew, Floyd Murphy, Jr. played drums and co-composed two songs, and the label's namesake and exec producer, Joe Roesch played drums on one song. Reception was more mixed. The title recording, The Blues Don't Bother Me, was licensed by Universal Records as the second track on the Blues Brothers 2000 Original Motion Picture Soundtrack which earned the RIAA Certified Gold Award of 500,000 units sold on March 16, 1998.\n\n\"Lucky Charm\" was Murphy's third solo album, first released in 2000 with Roesch. It included contributions by his fellow Blues Brothers musicians Lou Marini and Alan Rubin, credited as The Blues Brothers Horns.\n\n\n\"Last Call\" was Murphy's last solo album, released in 2010 with Bluzpik.\nWith Sonny Boy Williamson\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2127097", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2127097", "title": "Bankruptcy problem", "text": "Bankruptcy problem\n\nIn mathematical sociology, and especially game theory, the bankruptcy problem is a distribution or entitlement problem involving the allocation of a given amount of a perfectly divisible good among a group of agents. The focus is on the case where the amount is insufficient to satisfy all their demands.\n\nProblems of the bankruptcy type arise in many real life situations. The canonical example would be that of a bankrupt firm that is to be liquidated. Another example would be the division of an estate amongst several heirs, particularly when the estate cannot meet all the deceased’s commitments.\n\nThere are at least three simple methods for solving bankruptcy problems in practice, but each is deficient in one or more ways. The methods are:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2127098", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2127098", "title": "Ionosonde", "text": "Ionosonde\n\nAn ionosonde, or chirpsounder, is a special radar for the examination of the ionosphere. The basic ionosonde technology was invented in 1925 by Gregory Breit and Merle A. Tuve and further developed in the late 1920s by a number of prominent physicists, including Edward Victor Appleton. The term \"ionosphere\" and hence, the etymology of its derivatives, was proposed by Robert Watson-Watt.\n\nAn ionosonde consists of:\n\n\nThe transmitter sweeps all or part of the HF frequency range, transmitting short pulses. These pulses are reflected at various layers of the ionosphere, at heights of 100–400 km, and their echos are received by the receiver and analyzed by the control system. The result is displayed in the form of an ionogram, a graph of reflection height (actually time between transmission and reception of pulse) versus carrier frequency.\n\nAn ionosonde is used for finding the optimum operation frequencies for broadcasts or two-way communications in the high frequency range.\n\nAn ionogram is a display of the data produced by an ionosonde. It is a graph of the virtual height of the ionosphere plotted against frequency. Ionograms are often converted into electron density profiles. Data from ionograms may be used to measure changes in the Earth's ionosphere due to space weather events.\n\nA chirp transmitter is a shortwave radio transmitter that sweeps the HF radio spectrum on a regular schedule. If one is monitoring a specific frequency, then a \"chirp\" is heard (in CW or SSB mode) when the signal passes through. In addition to their use in probing ionospheric properties, these transmitters are also used for over-the-horizon radar systems.\n\nAn analysis of current transmitters has been done using SDR technology. For better identification of chirp transmitters the following notation is used: <repetition rate (s)>:<chirp offset (s)>, where the repetition rate is the time between two sweeps in seconds and the chirp offset is the time of the first sweep from 0 MHz after a full hour in seconds. If the initial frequency is greater than 0 MHz, the offset time can be linearly extrapolated to 0 MHz.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2127100", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2127100", "title": "Bilal Philips", "text": "Bilal Philips\n\nAbu Ameenah Bilal Philips, (born Dennis Bradley Philips, 1946) is a Canadian Muslim teacher, speaker, author, founder and chancellor of the Islamic Online University, who lives in Qatar. He appears on Peace TV, which is a 24-hour Islamic satellite TV channel. He considers himself a Salafi who advocates a traditional, literal form of Islam. J.M. Berger, describes him as an example of a preacher and opinion leader of the Muslim world \"who clearly believes and preaches in often stirring terms that Western civilization exists in sharp conflict with Islamic civilization, but who ... stops short of openly endorsing violence.\"\n\nBecause of what his critics call \"extremist views\", Philips has been banned from entering the United Kingdom, Australia, Denmark and Kenya, banned from re-entering Germany, ordered to leave Bangladesh, and arrested in the Philippines for \"inciting and recruiting people to conduct terrorist activities.\" Philips has responded to such criticism by stating he is a moderate who does not endorse terrorism or the use of suicide bombings in Islam. Some civil rights advocates have defended Philips and criticized his deportation, claiming he is being religiously persecuted.\n\nPhilips was born in Kingston, Jamaica but grew up in Toronto, Ontario, Canada.\n\nPhilips had encountered Islam several times in his travels, but the book that won him over was \"Islam, The Misunderstood Religion\" by Muhammad Qutb, the younger brother of Sayyid Qutb.\n\nHe received his B.A. degree from the Islamic University of Madinah and his M.A. in ʿAqīdah (Islamic Theology) from the King Saud University in Riyadh, then to the University of Wales, St. David's University College (now University of Wales, Trinity Saint David). There at the Lampeter Campus he completed his 1993 PhD thesis, \"Exorcism in Islam\".\n\nPhilips taught Islamic studies for a decade years at an Islamic high school in Riyadh and was an Arabic and Islamic studies teacher in the American University of Dubai for 10 years as well. He also lectures at the Ajman University (AU) in the United Arab Emirates. During the First Gulf War Philips organized Islamic religious revival meetings for U.S. troops stationed in Saudi Arabia, during which (according to Philips) he converted thousands of soldiers to Islam. According to counter-extremism author J.M. Berger, some of the US military men and women who participated in his revival program were later recruited as volunteer trainers in the 1992-95 Bosnian War.\n\nPhilips founded the Islamic Online University in Qatar in 2001.\n\nRegarding his statement \"Western culture, led by the United States, is the enemy of Islam,\" he has explained in an interview in Austrolabe that it was taken out of context, and that he was quoting Samuel P. Huntington’s famous statement on the clash of civilisations. When asked in an interview with author Berger about his statement in an earlier lecture that \"he did believe in the `clash of civilizations,` and that America was the enemy of Islam\" he explains that he opposes the effort by \"globalized western civilization\" to \"push ... secular democracy ... down the throats of the rest of the world.\"\n\nPhilips has stated that there is no such thing as rape in marriage in Islam:\n\n[In] Islaam, a woman is obliged to give herself to her husband and he may not be charged with rape. Of course, if a woman is physically ill or exhausted, her husband should take her condition into consideration and not force himself upon her.\n\nPhillips had previously stated in a lecture and in one of his books that suicide bombers are unfairly criticized as they are not really committing the suicide that is forbidden in Islam, but are showing bravery in committing a military operation. However he would later state in a 2010 interview that he believes suicide bombings actually do not comply with Islamic law. \n\nWhen you look at the mind of the suicide bomber, it's a different intention altogether ... The [enemy] is either too heavily armed, or they don't have the type of equipment that can deal with it, so the only other option they have is to try to get some people amongst them and then explode the charges that they have to try to destroy the equipment and to save the lives of their comrades. So this is not really considered to be suicide in the true sense. This is a military action and human lives are sacrificed in that military action. This is really the bottom line for it and that's how we should look at it.\n\nPhilips' ideas on suicide bombing made news after the website of Luton Islamic Centre, where a suicide bomber had worshipped, was found to carry a link to a lecture by Philips in which he made \"comments used to justify suicide attacks, and material expounding antisemitism and homophobia\". The chairman of the Luton Islamic Centre has said Philips' comments that were posted on its website contained errors and that it should not have been categorized as \"suicide bombings\" because he was referring to military operations as opposed to harming innocent people.\n\nIn an interview in Austrolabe, republished in Muslim Matters, Philips calls himself a \"moderate\" and the claim that he is an extremist \"baseless\". He has also stated that he is opposed to Al-Qaeda and any type of terrorism in the name of Islam.\n\nPhilips came under criticism in Britain for his statements on suicide bombers.\n\nIn 2007 he was banned from entering Australia on the advice of national security agencies.\n\nIn 2010 Philips was banned from entering the UK by home secretary Theresa May for holding \"extremist views\".\n\nIn April 2011, Philips was banned from re-entering Germany as \"persona non grata\".\n\nIn 2012, Philips was banned from entering Kenya over possible terror links.\n\nPhilips was named by the US government as an unindicted co-conspirator in the 1993 World Trade Center bombing.\n\nIn 2014, the publisher of a book authored by Philips entitled \"\"The Fundamentals of Tawheed\"\" was arrested by armed officers during a raid of Islamic institutions in Prague. 20 people were detained during Friday Prayer at a mosque and a community center. Law enforcement officials claimed Philips' book \"incites xenophobia and violence\" and insisted it was racist. Philips \"vehemently\" defended his book, denied it condoned racism, noting that millions of copies had been published in Muslim communities around the world, and stated that any action against the book could \"constitute an attack on Islam itself.\"\n\nIn June 2014, the Bangladeshi intelligence service ordered Phillips, who had come to Dhaka to give lectures, to leave the country.\n\nIn September 2014, Philips was arrested in the Philippines for \"inciting and recruiting people to conduct terrorist activities.\" He was expected to be deported by Philippine immigration authorities after police arrested him in southern Davao City. Eddie Delima, an immigration officer in Davao stated: \"He’s classified as undesirable because of his extremist views and possible link to terrorist groups\". The director of the Philippine National Police in Southern Mindanao, said Philips is being questioned for his possible links with terror groups including the ISIS (Islamic State in Iraq and Syria). He was deported from the Philippines back to Canada. Philips denied the charges leveled by Filipino officials and denied links to terrorists groups. Some religious leaders and civil rights advocates have defended Philips and criticized his deportation from the Philippines, arguing that he has not done anything wrong and that he has been a victim of religious persecution.\n\nIn the April 2016 issue of \"Dabiq Magazine\", The Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant, declared Philips to be a murtadd (or apostate) and threatened to kill him for denouncing ISIS.\n\nOne of Philip's works entitled \"The Fundamentals of Tauheed\" has been described as \"extremist\" by the United Kingdom prison service. As a consequence, this book has now been removed and banned from prisons.\n\nIn May 2017, Philips was banned from entering Denmark along with other preachers including Salman al-Ouda and Terry Jones.\n\n"}
{"id": "2127101", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2127101", "title": "Leslie Hendrix", "text": "Leslie Hendrix\n\nLeslie Hendrix (born June 5, 1960) is an American actress. She is best known for playing the role of medical examiner Elizabeth Rodgers on four \"Law & Order\" series (\"Law & Order\", \"\", \"\" and \"\"). She also played Judge Hannah Lampert on the soap opera \"All My Children\". In the third season of \"Gotham\" she plays Kathryn Monroe, the mysterious leader of the Court of Owls.\n\n"}
{"id": "2127104", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2127104", "title": "Academy for Sustainable Communities", "text": "Academy for Sustainable Communities\n\nThe Academy for Sustainable Communities (ASC) is a national skills initiative that has been set up by the Department of Communities and Local Government. \n\nIn April 2004, Sir John Egan, a leading industrialist and past president of the Institute of Management, reported on the skills and training needed to deliver the Government's Sustainable Communities Plan. A key recommendation of the Egan Review was a national centre for sustainable communities skills and knowledge. In October 2005, it was announced that the ASC’s first chief executive would be Gill Taylor, formerly Chief Executive of Burnley Borough Council.\n\nThe ASC has since developed Sir John Egan’s vision and is focusing its work on three target audiences: young people; professionals; and communities. The ASC is working with partners to develop new learning resources such as a Sustainable Communities Foundation Degree, undertake major research studies, launch careers drives and promote good practice.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2127106", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2127106", "title": "Robbie Stamp", "text": "Robbie Stamp\n\nRobbie Stamp (born 1960) was the CEO of The Digital Village, a position that came about partly because of his friendship with author Douglas Adams, whose works inspired the site. Stamp was also the executive producer of the movie version of \"The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy\".\n\nStamp was a producer of television documentaries when he met Adams. Under his tenure at The Digital Village, the h2g2 project was launched, along with the computer game Starship Titanic.\n\nHe is currently Chairman of Bioss International Ltd..\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2127112", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2127112", "title": "Division of Hume", "text": "Division of Hume\n\nThe Division of Hume is an Australian electoral division in the state of New South Wales. \n\nThe division was proclaimed in 1900, and was one of the original 65 divisions to be contested at the first federal election. The division was named after Hamilton Hume, one of the first Europeans to travel through the area.\n\nThe division is located in the central part of the state, north of the Australian Capital Territory. The division covers a large rural and regional area, with agriculture being the main industry. It also includes a portion of outer Sydney suburbs at its northeastern extremity. It includes Boorowa and Goulburn in the west, parts of the Southern Highlands in the centre and Camden in the east. It includes the entire local government areas of Goulburn Mulwaree and Upper Lachlan shires and parts of Camden Council, Hilltops Council, the City of Liverpool, the City of Penrith, Wingecarribee Shire and Wollondilly Shire. Towns include Appin, Bargo, Boorowa, Bundanoon, Camden, Camden Park, Colo Vale, Crookwell, Exeter, Goulburn, Hill Top, Marulan, Menangle, Meryla, Narellan, Oakdale, Penrose, Picton, Tahmoor, Tarago, Taralga, The Oaks, Thirlmere, Werai (part), Wingello (part), Wilton and Yerrinbool (part).\n\nThe current Member for Hume, since the 2013 federal election, is Angus Taylor, a member of the Liberal Party of Australia.\n\n"}
{"id": "2127116", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2127116", "title": "John Marshall Scholars", "text": "John Marshall Scholars\n\nThe John Marshall Scholars Program is an academic scholarship program that covers a majority of the cost of education for member students at Marshall University. Named to honor the Chief Justice of the United States John Marshall, the program affords a rigorous academic program and provides a full tuition/fees waiver and stipend to students with a composite ACT score of 30 or higher who have been accepted to the University. Students must maintain a 3.5 GPA in order to retain their scholarship.\n\nJohn Marshall Scholars complete a program of interdisciplinary honors seminars and departmental honors courses. Examples of these interdisciplinary seminars include:\n\n"}
{"id": "2127122", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2127122", "title": "Ralph Waite", "text": "Ralph Waite\n\nRalph Waite (June 22, 1928 – February 13, 2014) was an American actor and political activist, best known for his role as John Walton Sr. on \"The Waltons\" (1972–1981), which he occasionally directed. He also had recurring roles in \"NCIS\" as Jackson Gibbs, the father of Leroy Jethro Gibbs, and \"Bones\", as Seeley Booth's grandfather. Waite had supporting roles in movies like \"Cool Hand Luke\" (1967), \"Five Easy Pieces\" (1970), \"The Grissom Gang\" (1971), \"The Bodyguard\" (1992), and \"Cliffhanger\" (1993).\n\nWaite, the eldest of five children, was born in White Plains, New York on June 22, 1928, to Ralph H. Waite, a construction engineer, and Esther (née Mitchell) Waite. He graduated from White Plains Senior High School in 1946. Too young for World War II, Waite served in the U.S. Marine Corps from 1946 to 1948, then graduated from Bucknell University in Lewisburg, Pennsylvania. He worked briefly as a social worker. Waite earned a master's degree from Yale University's Divinity School and was an ordained Presbyterian minister and religious editor at Harper & Row, New York before deciding on an acting career. He was a member of the Peninsula Players summer theater program during the 1963 season.\n\nWaite made his Broadway debut in \"Blues for Mister Charlie\", and worked on and off-Broadway steadily throughout the 1960s.\n\nHis film work included roles in \"Cool Hand Luke\", \"Five Easy Pieces\", \"Lawman\", \"The Grissom Gang\", \"Chato's Land\" and \"The Stone Killer\". His later films included \"The Bodyguard\", the part of Frank the helicopter pilot in the 1993 film \"Cliffhanger\", and as the mysterious time traveler in \"Timequest\" (2002). He also voiced Shadow in \"Homeward Bound II\".\n\nWaite scored a personal triumph when he created the role of Will Kidder in the Pulitzer Prize-winning \"The Young Man from Atlanta\", by playwright Horton Foote, in 1995.\n\nWaite was married three times, two marriages ending in divorce. He had three daughters from his first marriage. His eldest daughter, Sharon Waite, died of leukemia when she was 9 years old in 1964. Liam Waite, one of Waite's stepsons, is also an actor. After 50 years away from organized religion, Waite returned in 2010 and became an active member of Spirit of the Desert Presbyterian Fellowship in Palm Desert, California.\n\nWaite ran unsuccessfully for Congress in California as a Democrat on three occasions: In 1990, he challenged veteran GOP incumbent Al McCandless in the Riverside County-based 37th district, losing by five percentage points. In 1998, Waite ran in the special election for the then-Palm Springs-based 44th district left vacant by the death of incumbent Sonny Bono. He was defeated in that election by Mary Bono, Sonny's widow, and lost to her again that November.\n\nOn October 21, 1991, Waite introduced then-former California Governor Jerry Brown prior to the latter's speech announcing his candidacy for the 1992 Democratic presidential nomination.\n\nOn February 13, 2014, Waite died in Palm Desert, California, of age-related illnesses at age 85. Waite is buried in White Plains Rural Cemetery in New York.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2127126", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2127126", "title": "Sustainable Communities Plan", "text": "Sustainable Communities Plan\n\nThe Sustainable Communities Plan was launched in 2003 and was a key policy of the Office of the Deputy Prime Minister in the Labour Government, guiding its regeneration and departmental objectives. It led to a range of policies and plans which were in effect a spatial plan for the whole of England. The plan interacted with a number of flagship regeneration policies such as The Northern Way, Thames Gateway and the Academy for Sustainable Communities.\n\nThe government defined a sustainable community as:\n\nAmongst other policies the Sustainable Communities Plan aimed to regenerate the industrial urban belt in northern England, stretching from Hull to Liverpool and provide hundreds of thousands of homes in South East England centred on the key growth areas of the Thames Gateway, around Luton and Milton Keynes, Ashford (Kent), and the wider area around Cambridge.\n\nThe Sustainable Communities Plan was finally revoked almost 12 years later by the Conservative Secretary of State for Communities and Local Government, Eric Pickles MP, on 16 January 2015.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2127127", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2127127", "title": "Safid River", "text": "Safid River\n\nThe Safid River is a river in northern Afghanistan originating in southwestern Sar-e Pol Province. It flows north and is joined by a major tributary from the east just south of the provincial capital, Sar-e Pol. It continues north past the town of Sar-e Pol and into Jowzjan Province. It flows past Sheberghan into the edge of the Karakum Desert where it dries up. In prehistoric times it flowed into the Amu Darya.\n\nThere are irrigation canals that spread the water out around Sheberghan.\n"}
{"id": "2127133", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2127133", "title": "Karl Vennberg", "text": "Karl Vennberg\n\nKarl Vennberg (11 April 1910 – 12 May 1995) was a Swedish poet, writer and translator. Born in Blädinge, Alvesta Municipality, Kronoberg County as the son of a farmer, Vennberg studied at Lund University and in Stockholm and worked as a teacher of Norwegian in a Stockholm folk high school. His first poem \"\"Hymn och hunger\"\" (\"Hymn and Hunger\") was published in 1937. During his career, he published 20 collections of poetry. His literary criticism had an important influence on the Swedish literary scene. He also translated literary works into Swedish, among others Franz Kafka's The Trial.\n\nGenerally considered a leading Swedish Modernist poet, several dissertations has been written about Vennberg's works. His poems are analytical but also often make use of irony. Vennberg is often said to be influenced by T. S. Eliot.\n\nIt has been argued by some, such as poet Lars Gustafsson and politician Per Ahlmark, that Vennberg expressed support for fascism and nazism. However, these accusations were later revealed to be based largely on quotes taken out of context, and the truth is that Vennberg actually held strong anti-fascist views; for example, in his diary in 1935, he described nazism as \"\"nothing but private capitalism's last resort\"\". Per Meurling, a close friend of Vennberg's, quoted him as saying: \"\"One can understand, or try to understand, all that lives and the way it constantly changes. But how can one grasp the infinite roughness and wickedness of Hitler? For me, nazism is, and has always been, the most repulsive thing I have seen in my life.\"\" Vennberg was also a member of the Swedish Clarté League, a socialist students' organization which resolutely opposed fascism and nazism in the 1930s and 1940s.\n\nDuring the early Cold War, Vennberg was an adherent of the so-called \"third stance\" () in Swedish public debate, which advocated a neutral stance in the conflict between the two superpowers. Despite this, he participated in a gathering at the USSR embassy in Stockholm where he praised the \"cultural upbuilding\" in the USSR. In 1948, he participated in the World Congress of Intellectuals for Peace in Wrocław, Poland, where he was elected to the International Committee of Intellectuals in Defence of Peace.\n\nKarl Vennberg won a number of literary prizes during his career:\n\n\nHe was also awarded an honorary doctorate at Stockholm University.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2127137", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2127137", "title": "Willard Manus", "text": "Willard Manus\n\nWillard Manus (born September 28, 1930) is a Los Angeles-based novelist, playwright, and journalist. His best known book is \"Mott the Hoople\" (1966), the novel from which the British 1970s hard rock band derived their name. \n\nManus was born in New York. He is the author of \"This Way to Paradise: Dancing on the Tables\", a memoir of life in Lindos, Rhodes, Greece, from the 1960s to the 1990s. Additionally he has had a dozen other books published, most recently a young adult novel, \"A Dog Called Leka\", which deals with a young lad sailing the Aegean islands in the company of an exceptional dog. More than two dozen of his plays have been produced in Los Angeles, regionally and in Europe.\n\nMember of Los Angeles Film critics Association since 1981. \n\n\nLove Under Aegean Skies - Amazon E-Book\n\n\n\nActual Productions:\n\"Bon Appetit\" (Los Angeles, 1984, director Bert Rosario)\n\"The Life and Loves of Marlene Dietrich:\nand other plays...\n\n"}
{"id": "2127138", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2127138", "title": "Portuguese Air Force Academy", "text": "Portuguese Air Force Academy\n\nThe Portuguese Air Force Academy (AFA, \"Academia da Força Aérea\" in Portuguese) is a Portuguese military higher education institution whose aim is to provide all its students with the training and the experience that will enable them to graduate having gained the knowledge and the character qualities that are essential for leadership, and the motivation to become Portuguese Air Force officers. It comprises both university and polytechnical academic programmes.\n\n\nFurther, AFA has doctorate (PhD) programmes in several fields.\n\n\nFor many years after its creation in 1952 as an independent branch of the Armed Forces of Portugal, Portuguese Air Force officers attended the Army' Military Academy. However, military professionalization, as well as the specific nature of the qualifications required for an Air Force career officer, led to the creation of the separate Air Force Academy (AFA), in 1978.\n\nThe AFA became the third military higher education institution, alongside the Naval School and the Military Academy.\n\nPresently, AFA has its own facilities inside Sintra Air Base (Air Base 1) area at Granja do Marquês. It started its activity though, on 1 February 1978, in temporary facilities and only students that were then attending the third year of the Military Aeronautics degree course were taken in. As its own facilities were built it became possible to expand the educational range of the Academy to cover other areas of interest. Thus, in response to the real needs of the Air Force, in the school year of 1991/92 other degrees were created: aeronautical engineering, airfield engineering; electrical engineering, computer engineering and aeronautical administration. In order to get these degrees, students have to attend other higher education institutions for the final years of each course.\n\nThe polytechnical courses were created in the same year. Meant for the servicemen who also wish to enter the commissioned ranks, they are aimed at the technical personnel. These degrees were taught at the Military Aeronautical Technology College (ESTMA, \"Escola Superior de Tecnologias Militares e Aeronáuticas\"), until 2008, when this school was merged in the AFA.\n\nThe area of land where Sintra Air Base and the Air Force Academy are currently situated has a long history behind it. This was attested by the discovery of a grave from the Neolithic period, as well as remains of the presence of Romans and Arabs in the region. It once belonged to the military-religious orders.\n\nIn the 17th century, according to legend, there was an apparition of Our Lady of Nazaré, and the estate became known as Granja da Nazaré. Later, a chapel was built here whose construction was finished in 1701. After the Marquis of Pombal became the owner of the farm and its grange it changed its name to Granja do Marquês. In 1862, Pombal's heirs rented out the land so that the Quinta Regional de Sintra (Sintra Regional Farm) could be established.\n\nOn 5 February 1920, the Military Aviation School, which had been operating at Vila Nova da Rainha, was transferred to Granja do Marquês.\n\nOn 14 August 1926, an image of the Assumption of the Virgin was offered to the chapel. That image was renamed Our Lady of the Air, was confirmed as such in 1960 by Pope John XXIII and proclaimed \"Patron Saint of Portuguese Aviators\". In 1995 it would be enthroned as patron saint of all aviators.\n\nIn December 1937, Sintra Air Base was created, and two years later it would be given the name it still carries: Air Base 1 (\"Base Aérea 1\") – the oldest base of the Portuguese Air Force.\n\nFor many years this was the place where both Air Force pilots and technicians got their training. Its most important training aircraft were the Tiger, the T-6 and the T-37. It was also the home base of the aerobatics team Asas de Portugal.\n\nEven though it does not really belong to Sintra Air Base, AFA depends on it for support in the areas of security, transport, health care, catering and flight training.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2127150", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2127150", "title": "Hart's Rules", "text": "Hart's Rules\n\nHart's Rules for Compositors and Readers at the University Press, Oxford—today published under the short title New Hart's Rules—is an authoritative reference book and style guide published in England by Oxford University Press (OUP). \"Hart's Rules\" originated as a compilation of best practices and standards by English printer and biographer Horace Hart over almost three decades during his employment at other printing establishments, but they were first printed as a single broadsheet page for in-house use by the OUP in 1893 while Hart's job was controller of the university press. They were originally intended as a concise style guide for the staff of the OUP, but they developed continuously over the years, were published in 1904, and soon gained wider use as a source for authoritative instructions on typesetting style, grammar, punctuation, and usage.\n\n\"Hart's Rules\" has been revised and republished under different titles, including \"The Oxford Guide to Style\" (2002), \"The Oxford Style Manual\" (2003, also including \"The Oxford Dictionary for Writers and Editors\" of 2000), \"New Hart's Rules\" (2005, an updated but abridged, pocket-size version), and \"New Oxford Style Manual\" (2012, inclusive of \"New Hart's Rules\" and \"The New Oxford Dictionary for Writers and Editors\" of 2005, together notably shorter than the 2003 combined edition). A revised second edition of \"New Hart's Rules\" (without the \"Dictionary\") was released in 2014, and a second \"New Oxford Style Manual\" was compiled in 2016, using the 2014 versions of both of the individual volumes.\n\nAfter their first appearance, Hart's rules were reissued in a second edition in 1894, and two further editions in 1895. They were continually revised, enlarged and reissued, and had reached their 15th edition by the time they were eventually published as a book in March 1904. New editions and reprints continued to appear over almost eight decades, until the 39th edition (1983) which was reprinted fifteen times—the last in 2000. Three of these reprints included corrections: 1986, 1987, and 1989. \nIn February 2002, Oxford University Press published a new and much longer version (what would have been the 40th edition of \"Hart's\") under the title \"The Oxford Guide to Style\" and the editorship of Robert M. Ritter, promoted as \"Hart's Rules for the 21st Century\". It departed from earlier editions by providing considerably more information about editing style than \"Hart's Rules\" did, but also less about typography.\n\n\"The Oxford Style Manual\" (2003) combined in a single volume, of 1033 pages, \"The Oxford Guide to Style\" (2002) and \"The Oxford Dictionary for Writers and Editors\" (2000).\n\nFrom this version was adapted New Hart's Rules: The Handbook of Style for Writers and Editors, first published in September 2005. While \"New Hart's Rules\" rewrites some material from the 2002/2003 version, it also abridged some, to fit into its small format.\n\n\"The Oxford Dictionary for Writers and Editors\", also compiled by Ritter, had been available since 2000 as a separate companion volume to \"Hart's\", in line with the eleven editions of the dictionary's famous predecessor, the \"Authors' and Printers' Dictionary\" by Frederick Howard Collins (first published in 1905 and renamed in 1983). A freshly compiled successor, published in 2005, returned to the \"traditional small handbook form\", matching \"New Hart's Rules\", and is titled The New Oxford Dictionary for Writers and Editors. It is intended for \"people who work with words—authors, copy-editors, proofreaders, students writing essays and dissertations, journalists, people writing reports or other documents, and website editors.\" This edition was reprinted with a new cover in 2014, to match a make-over of various Oxford reference publications. It is distinct from the similarly titled \"[New] Oxford Dictionary for Scientific Writers and Editors\" (originally 1991; currently 2nd ed., 2009), a companion volume of technical terminology not included in any of the compilation editions.\n\nIn 2012, Oxford University Press published a new combined edition, \"New Oxford Style Manual\". It includes \"New Oxford Dictionary for Writers and Editors\" and \"New Hart's Rules: The Handbook of Style for Writers and Editors\", both from 2005.\n\nA second edition of \"NHR\", under the full title \"New Hart's Rules: The Oxford Style Guide\", was published in October 2014, under new editor Anne Waddingham. It added over 40 pages of material, and has a cover matching the style of the 2014 printing of the \"Dictionary for Writers and Editors\". Another combined edition, again titled New Oxford Style Manual (3rd edition, ), was released in May 2016, with the content of the 2014 editions of \"New Hart's Rules\" and \"New Oxford Dictionary for Writers and Editors\", and matching their cover style. \"New Oxford Dictionary for Scientific Writers and Editors\" (2009) remains a separate volume.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2127153", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2127153", "title": "Van Wyck Brooks", "text": "Van Wyck Brooks\n\nVan Wyck Brooks (February 16, 1886 in Plainfield, New Jersey – May 2, 1963 in Bridgewater, Connecticut) was an American literary critic, biographer, and historian.\n\nBrooks graduated from Harvard University in 1908. As a student he published his first book, a collection of poetry called \"Verses by Two Undergraduates\", co-written with his friend John Hall Wheelock.\n\nBrooks' best-known work is a series of studies entitled \"Makers and Finders: A History of the Writer in America, 1800-1915\" (1952), which chronicled the development of American literature during the long 19th century. Brooks embroidered elaborate biographical detail into anecdotal prose. For \"The Flowering of New England, 1815-1865\" (1936) he won the second National Book Award for Non-Fiction from the American Book Sellers Association and the 1937 Pulitzer Prize for History. The book was also included in Life Magazine's list of the 100 outstanding books of 1924–1944.\n\nBrooks was a long-time resident of Bridgewater, Connecticut, which built a town library wing in his name. Although a decade-long fund-raising effort was abandoned in 1972, a hermit in Los Angeles, Charles E. Piggott, with no connection to Bridgewater surprised the town by leaving money for the library in his will. With $210,000 raised, the library addition went up in 1980.\n\nAmong his works, the book \"The Ordeal of Mark Twain\" (1920) analyzes the literary progression of Samuel L. Clemens and attributes shortcomings to Clemens' mother and wife. In 1925 he published a translation from French of the 1920 biography of Henry Thoreau by Leon Bazalgette, entitled \"Henry Thoreau, Bachelor of Nature\".\n\nIn 1944, Brooks was on the cover of \"Time Magazine\".\n\n\nA historic district known for its old Victorian and Second French Empire style buildings in Plainfield, the town of his birth, is named after him.\n\n\n\"Doctor of Letters\":\n\n\"Doctor of Humane Letters\":\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2127154", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2127154", "title": "Middlewood Way", "text": "Middlewood Way\n\nThe Middlewood Way is an 11-mile (16 km) \"linear park\" in England, between Macclesfield () and Rose Hill, Marple (), opened on 30 May 1985 by Dr David Bellamy. \n\nThe Middlewood Way follows the route of the former Macclesfield, Bollington and Marple railway, which had operated between 1869 and 1970. The Middlewood Way serves the needs of walkers, dog walkers, cyclists, joggers and horse riders and plays host to a wide range of flora and fauna. It runs approximately parallel to the Macclesfield Canal and passes through Bollington and Higher Poynton. It can be reached by rail at Macclesfield, Middlewood, Rose Hill Marple and Romiley via the Goyt Valley Connect 2 scheme.\n\nThe trail forms part of National Cycle Network Route 55 from Ironbridge to Preston.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2127157", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2127157", "title": "Daniel Fredheim Holm", "text": "Daniel Fredheim Holm\n\nDaniel Fredheim Holm (born 30 July 1985) is a Norwegian footballer who plays as a midfielder and works as an assistant coach for KFUM in the OBOS-ligaen. He is the half-brother of former Vålerenga colleague Thomas Holm, and the son of former footballer Paal Fredheim.\n\nFredheim Holm was transferred from Skeid to Vålerenga in the spring of 2004, for NOK 1,5 million. In his first season in the Norwegian top division, he scored five goals. He was also one of the Cup Final heroes, alongside \"Moa\", when Vålerenga defeated Stabæk in the 2008 final, to become Norwegian champions.\n\nOn 9 July 2009, it was announced that Fredheim Holm would leave Vålerenga for Danish side Aalborg.\n\nOn 20 January 2011, Fredheim Holm was sold to Rosenborg BK.\n\nOn 4 February 2013, Fredheim Holm signed a three-year contract with Vålerenga. He won Tippeligaen 2005 with the Oslo club.\n\nHolm signed with KFUM on 28 November 2018, where he became a playing assistant coach.\n\nHe received his first call up in March 2007 against Bosnia and Herzegovina and Turkey, and played in the match against Turkey.\n"}
{"id": "2127158", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2127158", "title": "The White Albun", "text": "The White Albun\n\nThe White Albun is the sixth and final studio album by Australian alternative rock band TISM, released on 24 June 2004 by Madman Entertainment. The title is a reference to and deliberate misspelling of \"The White Album\", an unofficial name for the album \"The Beatles\".\n\nAppropriate to TISM's humour and mockery of the music industry, the album is only available as part of a larger package containing two DVDs. The first DVD is titled \"A Film By Antonionioni\" which is, in fact, not a film but a live concert called \"Save Our TISM\" featuring, in true TISM style, a fake telethon running behind the band. The second DVD is \"TISM: A Docunentary\" (keeping with the 'n' theme) which features lengthy interviews of the band and a history of TISM. Also on the disc is rare or previously-unreleased footage from TISM concerts ranging from their first-ever show through to the present day. The disc also features every TISM video clip including the banned video for \"I Might Be a Cunt, but I'm Not a Fucking Cunt\". The original (digipak) pressings did not feature the video for \"Everyone Else Has Had More Sex Than Me\", but it was added when the album was re-released on 10 November 2004 in a standard Amaray case.\n\nThe first disc of this release is a live concert, titled \"Save Our TISM\" it was recorded at Max Watt's House of Music (then known as the Hi Fi Bar) on 26 September 2003. The title of the disc itself refers to Madman Entertainment, who released the Albun. Ron Hitler-Barassi stated:\n\nThe title of the disc can be seen as an expansion on this statement, claiming that their live concert was filmed by acclaimed director Michelangelo Antonioni.\n\nThe concert features a telethon hosted by \"Marcel Proust\" (Mark O'Toole) in which TISM need to raise a million dollars before the end of the concert or they will split up for good. This comes about after it is revealed that Powderfinger wish to merge with TISM, but TISM deny the merger because Powderfinger refuse to \"get a sense of humour\".\n\nThis concert, as with all TISM concerts, contains many events which occur on stage. Along with the telethon running constantly in the background, the concert includes: audio snippets of some of the callers and a re-occurring host to update us on the telethon, TISM members Jon St. Peenis and Les Miserables push wheelie bins around the stage, Humphrey B. Flaubert peeling a piece of fruit, several members hitting inflated rubber balls into the crowd with cricket bats and a fan is picked from the crowd to sing on \"(He'll Never Be An) Ol' Man River\", along with other incidents.\n\nThe \"extras\" on this DVD are interviews with the crowd before and after the concert, an option called \"Ron-Cam\" which is an edit of the footage where Ron Hitler-Barassi is always in shot and an optional \"Audience Edit\" of \"Forty Years - Then Death\". The \"Audience Edit\" came from talks with TISM and Madman Entertainment, the creator/distributors of the disc.\n\nThis extra allows the viewer to select from any four of the camera's footage at any time and view their results on-the-fly with near-instant results for their own edit of the song. A bonus of this feature is that this extra does not need DVD-Rom support and very few stand alone DVD players would have trouble with the feature.\n\n\"The White Albun\" is a full-length studio album featuring sixteen tracks. The title of the album, as stated earlier in the article, is a deliberate misspelling of the Beatles album, \"The White Album\". The title was chosen because, as Ron Hitler-Barassi put it:\n\nThe only single released off the album was \"Everyone Else Has Had More Sex Than Me\", the video of which was chosen in a competition. The winner was Bernard Derriman and his \"bunny\" clip. Made in flash, the video enjoyed popular internet success through the ease of flash file distribution online.\n\nThe third disc in the set, the second DVD, contains the most content. It is filled with interviews with Ron and Humphrey and a tour of Melbourne highlighting places which have been important throughout TISM's career. Also on the disc is rare and some unseen footage of TISM concerts ranging from their first ever gig through to 2002, their full video collection (first pressings of The White Albun exclude \"Everyone Else Has Had More Sex Than Me\" because the video wasn't animated at that time) and other rare footage.\n\nAll songs written by TISM except \"Bone Idol\" by TISM and J. Weaving and \"As Seen on Reality\" by TISM and Mike Rudd.\n\n\"As Seen on Reality\" is built around a sample of the main riff from the Spectrum song \"Launching Place, Part II\". The outro to \"Cerebral Knievel\" is a reference to \"Revolution 9\" by the Beatles and features many samples, including an old tape of Tokin' Blackman laughing that was recorded at Noble Park Youth Club in 1977 and some extra recording from the Princes Highway and Sans Souci in 1995.\n\nThe \"Save Our TISM\" parts are spoken word pieces of the telethon running behind the band during the concert. They are not actual songs, nor are the first and last tracks listed.\n\n\nThe track \"Somebody Start a Fight or Something\" would later be used as the theme song for \"The Green Room with Paul Provenza\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2127160", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2127160", "title": "Magomedali Magomedov", "text": "Magomedali Magomedov\n\nMagomedali Magomedovich Magomedov (; born 15 June 1930) was chairman of the State Council of the Republic of Dagestan from 1987 to 2006.\n\nHe was born on 15 June 1930, in Levashi, Levashinsky district, Republic of Dagestan.\n\nHe graduated from the Dagestan Teachers Institute in 1952, and in 1968 from the Dagestan Institute of Agriculture.\n\nHe became chairman of the Council of State in 1987 under the Soviet system, and was one of the few leaders to keep his post in the post-Soviet Russian Federation. On 26 July 1994, he was elected Chairman of the State Council of Dagestan.\nOn 26 June 1998, he was re-elected to the same post, and on 25 June 2002, again for the third time.\nHe resigned on 19 February 2006, for unclear reasons, and was replaced two days later by Mukhu Aliyev. He is married and he has six children. He is also the father of Magomedsalam Magomedov, who served as president of Dagestan from 2010 to 2013.\n\n\nMagomedali Magomedov's major achievement was balanced politics that helped to keep Dagestan away from major social and religious conflicts. He managed to smooth all conflicting positions and reach compromise for different ethnic groups in Dagestan. He was also famous for modernization initiatives. The major criticism of Magomedali was related to ongoing corruption in his office.\n"}
{"id": "2127162", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2127162", "title": "Paul Kieve", "text": "Paul Kieve\n\nPaul Kieve (born 1967) is an English professional illusionist and whose consulting work for both stage and screen has contributed to changing how magical special effects in productions are approached. He is the only illusionist ever to have won a New York Drama Desk award (for \"Ghost the Musical\" on Broadway). He created the illusions for the 2014 Kate Bush concert \"Before the Dawn\".\n\nKieve was born in Woodford, North-East London and started magic at 10 years of age after receiving a magic set as a birthday gift.\n\nKieve first performed publicly in 1983. In January 1984 at the age of 16 he performed card tricks in the music video for the Sade single Your Love Is King, his arms having been shaved to give the impression that the singer was performing the prestidigitation herself.\n\nIn April of that year he made his first television appearance on the BBC TV children's show \"Blue Peter\", apparently cutting presenter Janet Ellis into three pieces .\n\nIn 1985 he was a finalist in the \"Young Magician of the Year\" competition.\n\nEarly professional engagements as a performer included a 1985 residency at the Xenon nightclub on Piccadilly, London and a summer 1986 run at the Inn on The Park, Jersey where he was resident support to acts including Bernard Manning, Gloria Gaynor, Bob Monkhouse, Rolf Harris and Ken Dodd.\n\nIn 1986 he and Lawrence Leyton formed The Zodiac Brothers and performed resident seasons in Sendai, Japan, on board the Cunard Line's QE2 and at the Magic Castle in Hollywood. When the Zodiac Brothers split in 1991 and Kieve made plans to attend university an approach from the Theatre Royal Stratford East to assist with illusions for a production of \"The Invisible Man\" marked the beginning of a new career as a magic consultant.\n\nCredits include:\n\n\nKieve was magic consultant on the 2004 \"Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban\" for which he created a number of 'live' illusions including the floating spheres in the astronomy room and the self-folding marauders map. He also appears in the film performing sleight of hand magic making candles multiply in his fingers in the Three Broomsticks. He is the only real life magician to perform magic in any of the Harry Potter films.\n\nHe was magic consultant and instructor on Martin Scorsese's 2011 film \"Hugo\", based on the magician and film maker Georges Méliès\n\nTV credits as magic consultant include:\n\nKieve has also acted as magic consultant to David Blaine, Arturo Brachetti, Geoffrey Durham, Dynamo, Jeff McBride and Dominic Wood.\n\nPaul Kieve worked with French artist Orlan on \"Woman with Head, Woman Without Head\" at London's Institute of Contemporary Arts in 1996 and with multimedia artist Christian Jankowski on the short film \"The Flock\" in which he also appeared. with video artist Jonathan Allen He also created a ghostly dove sequence for the performance art project \"Carnesky's Ghost Train\".\n\nHe worked with performance artist Rose English on \"Tantamount Esperance\" at the Royal Court Theatre and has collaborated with Marisa Carnesky on several projects including \"Carnesky's Burlesque Ghost Box\" for Duckie in 2002.\n\nKieve was magic consultant to Guinness World Records for its 2004 and 2005 magic sections (the only such sections ever carried by the book), researching with other illusionists including Penn and Teller, David Copperfield and Siegfried and Roy.\n\n\n\nA keen student of the history of magic Kieve regularly lectures both on the history of stage magic and his own work. In 2011 he presented a talk on 'The Magic of Theatre' at the Magic Live conference in Las Vegas. He presented \"Grappling with Ghosts: Staging Ghost Effects in the Modern Theatre\" at the University of Westminster in 2009.\n\nHe has presented at the Essential Magic Conference - the ground-breaking online magic conference pioneered by Portuguese illusionist Luis de Matos and has lectured at the Magic Circle and the Hackney Empire in London.\n\nPaul Kieve owns an extensive collection of historical magic memorabilia, some of which he loaned to the Hayward Gallery for its touring \"Magic Show\" (2009-2010) exhibition. He is a consultant curator of The Magic Circle Museum\n\nSinger-songwriter Paloma Faith once worked as Paul Kieve's magic assistant.\n\n"}
{"id": "2127164", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2127164", "title": "Vladimir Voltchkov", "text": "Vladimir Voltchkov\n\nVladimir Nikolayevich Voltchkov (, \"Uładzimir Mikałajevič Vałčkoŭ\"; ; born April 7, 1978) is a Belarusian former professional tennis player. Voltchkov reached the semifinals at the 2000 Wimbledon Championships, where, as a qualifier, he lost to Pete Sampras in straight sets. He represented Belarus in both the Davis Cup and the Olympic Games in 2000, also won the Wimbledon juniors competition in 1996. His career-high singles ranking is world No. 25.\n\nVoltchkov had excellent results as a junior capturing the Wimbledon juniors title defeating Ivan Ljubičić in 1996. He compiled a singles win/loss record of 69–34, reaching as high as No. 7 in the world in 1996.\n\nJunior Grand Slam results:\n\nAustralian Open: –\nFrench Open: 3R (1996)\nWimbledon: W (1996)\nUS Open: 3R (1995, 1996)\n\nHis highest achievement came in 2000, inspired by the film Gladiator. After watching the movie four times, he went on to reach the semifinals of the Wimbledon Championships as a qualifier, causing the British press to dub him \"The Vladiator\". En route to the semifinals he beat Juan Ignacio Chela, Cédric Pioline, Younes El Aynaoui, Wayne Ferreira and Byron Black before losing to eventual champion Pete Sampras. Voltchkov has a 30–16 career Davis Cup record (17–11 in singles)\n\n"}
{"id": "2127166", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2127166", "title": "Tantilla melanocephala", "text": "Tantilla melanocephala\n\nTantilla melanocephala, commonly known as the black-headed snake, is a species of small colubrid snake endemic to Central America and South America.\n\nIn Central America it is found from Guatemala south to Panama. In South America it is found from Trinidad and Tobago south to northern Argentina.\n\n\"Tantilla melanocephala\" may attain a total length of , which includes a tail long.\n\nDorsally, it is pale brown or red, and some specimens also have 3 or 5 narrow brown stripes. The top of the head and neck are black or dark brown. Ventrally, it is yellowish white.\n\nThe dorsal scales are smooth, without apical pits, and arranged in 15 rows at midbody.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2127169", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2127169", "title": "The Northern Way", "text": "The Northern Way\n\nThe Northern Way was a collaboration initiated in February 2004 between the three northern regional development agencies (RDAs), Northwest Development Agency, One NorthEast and Yorkshire Forward at the instigation of the then Deputy Prime Minister John Prescott to focus on issues important for the whole of the North of England with a dimension larger than could be tackled by one region alone — for example, transport infrastructure, or marketing the North internationally.\n\nThe body was tasked to address the £30 billion output gap between the North and the average for England as a whole.\n\nAlthough originally intended to have a twenty-year lifespan, the initiative's activity came to an end in March 2011, when its parent regional development agencies were wound up by the Conservative-Liberal Democrat coalition government.\n\nTo lead the delivery of its objective, an independently chaired steering group was established whose members had a range of different public and private sector interests. The Steering Group launched \"Moving Forward: The Northern Way Growth Strategy\" in September 2004, which focused on four themes:\nThese investment priorities are:\n\nThe Growth Fund, worth £100 million, was launched in September 2004, and in June 2005 the Northern Way published its Business plan, setting out how to spend the money. The eight City Region partnerships published their City Region Development Plans to show how they would work together to grow their economies to address the output gap.\n\n"}
{"id": "2127172", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2127172", "title": "Alun Gwynne Jones, Baron Chalfont", "text": "Alun Gwynne Jones, Baron Chalfont\n\nAlun Arthur Gwynne Jones, Baron Chalfont, (5 December 1919 – 10 January 2020) was a British politician, British Army officer and historian.\n\nGwynne Jones was born in \"modest circumstances\" in Monmouthshire. He was educated at West Monmouth School, and subsequently at the School of Slavonic Studies at the University of London. Joining the South Wales Borderers when the Second World War broke out, he was commissioned a second lieutenant on 2 November 1940. From 1941 to 1944 he fought in Burma alongside the Welsh poet Alun Lewis. On 1 January 1943, he received an emergency commission in the Royal Armoured Corps as a war-substantive lieutenant, with the same rank in the South Wales Borderers from 1 April. After the war, Gwynne Jones remained in the Army, receiving a substantive lieutenant's commission in the South Wales Borderers on 24 August 1946 (with seniority from 5 June 1942), and was promoted to captain on 5 December. He was awarded the Efficiency Medal in October 1950. Promoted to major on 5 December 1953, Gwynne Jones took part in a series of anti-terrorist campaigns, and was decorated with the Military Cross (MC) in August 1957 for commanding a company which fought in the Malaysian jungles during the Malayan Emergency, after his involvement in a series of ambushes against communist insurgents. Gwynne Jones later stated, \"I was lucky enough to carry out some successful ones.\" The citation reads as follows:\n\nGwynne Jones was brevetted to lieutenant-colonel on 1 July 1960, and was decorated as an Officer of the Order of the British Empire (OBE) in the 1961 Birthday Honours. He retired from the army on 30 June 1961 with the honorary rank of lieutenant-colonel.\n\nCreated a peer, becoming Lord Chalfont, he was a minister in the Foreign and Commonwealth Office from 1964 to 1970 and appointed to the Privy Council in the former year. On 27 March 1967, in the House of Lords, Chalfont became the spokesman/figurehead for Harold Wilson's Labour Party Government's attempt to divest Britain of the Falkland Islands. In November 1968 Chalfont travelled to the Falklands to canvas the people, and try to persuade them of the merit of becoming Argentine citizens. He was sent away in no doubt that the islanders wished to remain British, but, on his return to Britain, he reported, \"I do not believe that the Falkland Islands can continue to exist for many years, as they are presently constituted. I believe one day that the Falkland Islands may be prepared to choose Argentine sovereignty. We must at all costs avoid giving the impression that we want to get rid of them, since that would set up precisely the reaction we would want to avoid.\"\n\nChalfont resigned from the Labour Party in the early 1970s. He declared his resignation a \"decision of personal and political principle\". In October 1974, just after Labour won a second general election that year, he stated in an interview with the BBC journalist Robin Day: \"I had hoped for a realignment of the politics of the radical left in this country and I believed when I left the Labour Party that a great success by the Liberal Party in this election could have helped that forward.\"\n\nChalfont is the author of several military history books on subjects including the Napoleonic Wars.\n\nHe was created Baron Chalfont, of Llantarnam in the County of Monmouthshire on 11 November 1964. Following the death of Lord Shawcross in 2003, his life peerage was the most senior extant, and Lord Chalfont was placed higher in the order of precedence than four hereditary barons whose inherited titles were created after his.\n\nChalfont contributed an article on \"The Strategic Defence Initiative\" to the Conservative Monday Club's October 1985 Conservative Party Conference issue of their newspaper, \"Right Ahead\". Chalfont is a former chairman of the Radio Authority which regulated commercial radio in the UK until its role was absorbed by Ofcom. Chalfont set up the Institute for the Study of Terrorism with Jillian Becker in 1985.\n\nChalfont retired from the House of Lords on 10 November 2015.\n\nIn 1948 Gwynne Jones married Mona Mitchell (who died on 31 May 2008), the daughter of Harry Douglas Mitchell, and together they had one child, a daughter. He turned 100 on 5 December 2019 and died the following month, on 10 January 2020.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2127173", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2127173", "title": "Action of 25 September 1806", "text": "Action of 25 September 1806\n\nThe Action of 25 September 1806 was a naval battle fought during the Napoleonic Wars off the French Biscay port of Rochefort. A French squadron comprising five frigates and two corvettes, sailing to the French West Indies with supplies and reinforcements, was intercepted by a British squadron of six ships of the line that was keeping a close blockade of the port as part of the Atlantic campaign of 1806. The British ships, under the command of Commodore Sir Samuel Hood, spotted the French convoy early in the morning of 25 September, just a few hours after the French had left port, and immediately gave chase. Although the French ships tried to escape, they were heavily laden with troops and stores, and the strong winds favoured the larger ships of the line, which caught the French convoy after a five-hour pursuit, although they had become separated from one another during the chase.\n\nAt 05:00 the leading British ship, HMS \"Monarch\", was within range and opened fire on the French squadron, which divided. One frigate went north and was intercepted by HMS \"Mars\", while another, accompanied by the two corvettes, turned south and managed to outrun HMS \"Windsor Castle\". The main body of the French force remained together and met the attack of \"Monarch\" and the British flagship HMS \"Centaur\" with their broadsides. Although outnumbered and outclassed by the British squadron the French ships fought hard, inflicting damage on the leading British ships and severely wounding Commodore Hood. Eventually the strength of the British squadron told, and despite a fierce resistance the French ships surrendered one by one, the British capturing four of the seven vessels in the squadron.\n\nThe principal naval campaign of 1806 was fought in the Atlantic Ocean, following a raid by two large French battle squadrons on British trade routes, focused particularly on the Caribbean. The security of the French Caribbean was under severe threat during the wars, as the Royal Navy dominated the region and restricted French movements both between the islands and between the West Indies and France itself. This dominance was enforced by rigorous blockade, in which British ships attempted to ensure that no French military or commercial vessel was able to enter or leave French harbours both in Europe and in the French colonies. In the Caribbean, this strategy was designed to destroy the economies and morale of the French West Indian territories in preparation for attack by British expeditionary forces. To counter this strategy, the French government repeatedly sent convoys and individual warships to the French Caribbean islands with supplies of food, military equipment and reinforcements. These resupply efforts ranged from small individual corvettes to large battle squadrons and were under orders to avoid conflict wherever possible. Despite these orders, many were intercepted by British blockade forces, either in the Caribbean or off the French coast itself.\n\nThe largest French resupply effort of the Napoleonic Wars was a squadron under Contre-Admiral Corentin-Urbain Leissègues, sent to Santo Domingo in December 1805 with troops and supplies. In conjunction with a second squadron under Vice-Admiral Jean-Baptiste Willaumez, this force was then ordered to raid British trade routes and disrupt the movement of British merchant shipping across the Atlantic. Leissègues reached Santo Domingo in February 1806, but within days a British battle squadron had intercepted and destroyed his force at the Battle of San Domingo. Willaumez was able to avoid attack by British forces during the spring of 1806, and cruised in the Caribbean during much of the summer, but his force was eventually dispersed by a hurricane in August and the survivors forced to shelter on the American Eastern Seaboard. Unaware of the dispersal of Willaumez's squadron, the British naval authorities sought to block its return to Europe by stationing strong battle squadrons off the principal French Atlantic ports. One of their most important targets was the city of Rochefort, heavily fortified port in which a powerful French naval force was based, and a squadron of six Royal Navy ships of the line was assigned to watch it in case Willaumez attempted to return there. In August, command of the blockade squadron was awarded to Commodore Sir Samuel Hood, a highly experience naval commander.\n\nIn Rochefort, an expedition was planned to carry supplies to the French West Indies while the British were distracted by Willaumez's operations. Assigned to the operation was Commodore Eleonore-Jean-Nicolas Soleil, an officer who had served on Allemand's expedition, a successful operation the year before. To carry the supplies and reinforcements, Soleil was provided with seven ships: Four large modern frigates rated at 40-guns but actually carrying 44–46, a smaller and older frigate of 36 guns and two small corvettes of 16 guns each. All of the ships were heavily laden, each carrying as many as 650 men, but it was hoped that their size and speed would allow them to defeat anything smaller than they were and to escape anything larger.\n\nSoleil's squadron departed Rochefort on the evening of 24 September, aiming to bypass Hood's squadron in the dark. However at 01:00 on 25 September, with the wind coming from the northeast, lookouts on HMS \"Monarch\" spotted sails to the east. Hood's squadron was spread out, tacking southeast towards the Chassiron Lighthouse at Saint-Denis-d'Oléron with HMS \"Centaur\" in the centre, HMS \"Revenge\" to the east (or windward) and \"Monarch\" to the west. HMS \"Mars\" was also close by, with the rest of the squadron spread out in the rear. Hood's immediate reaction was that the sails must belong to a squadron of French ships of the line, and ordered his ships to form a line of battle in anticipation. Even as the signal was raised however, lookouts on \"Monarch\" identified the strangers as frigates and Hood abandoned his previous orders and raised a new signal ordering a general chase, confident that his ships could destroy the convoy even without the power and defensive capability of a line of battle.\n\nAs soon as Soleil realised that he had been spotted he gave orders for his ships to sail to the southwest as fast as possible, hoping to outdistance the British squadron. However his convoy were all heavily laden and were therefore slower than they would normally be, while the heavy swell and strong winds favoured the large ships of the line. The chase continued throughout the night, until by 04:00 \"Monarch\" was clearly gaining on the convoy, with \"Centaur\" behind. At 05:00, Captain Richard Lee was close enough to fire his bow-chasers, small guns situated at the front of his ship, at the rearmost French frigate, the \"Armide\". Captain Jean-Jacques-Jude Langlois returned the fire with his stern-chasers and the French ships raised the Tricolour in anticipation of battle. Recognising that he was facing an overwhelming British force, Soleil split his ships, sending \"Thétis\" and the corvettes \"Lynx\" and \"Sylphe\" southwards and \"Infatigable\" to the north. This had limited success in achieving the desired effect of dividing the pursuit, with Captain William Lukin taking HMS \"Mars\" out of the British line in pursuit of \"Infatigable\" while the slow HMS \"Windsor Castle\" was sent after the three south bound ships, but the main body of the Royal Navy squadron remained on course.\n\nAt 10:00, Soleil accepted that his remaining ships would rapidly be overhauled by \"Monarch\" and drew them together, forming a compact group with which to receive the British attack. He also ordered his captains to focus their fire on the enemy sails, rigging and masts, hoping to inflict enough damage to delay the pursuit and allow his force to escape. Within minutes \"Monarch\" was heavily engaged with \"Armide\" and \"Minerve\" but Captain Lee found himself at a disadvantage: the heavy swell that had suited his ship during the chase also prevented him from opening his lower gunports in case of flooding. This halved his available cannon and as a result his isolated ship began to suffer severe damage to its rigging and sails from the frigates' gunnery. Within 20 minutes, \"Monarch\" was unable to manoeuvree, but Lee continued fighting until \"Centaur\" could reach the melee, the flagship opening fire at 11:00. Hood passed the battling \"Monarch\" and \"Minerve\", concentrating his fire on \"Armide\" and the flagship \"Gloire\". For another 45 minutes the battle continued, \"Centaur\" suffering damage to her rigging and sails from the French shot and taking casualties from musket fire from the soldiers carried aboard. Among the wounded was Commodore Hood, who was shot in the right forearm, the ball eventually lodging in his shoulder. Hood retired below and command passed to his second in command, Lieutenant Case.\n\nAt 11:45, \"Armide\" surrendered to \"Centaur\", followed 15 minutes later by \"Minerve\". Both ships had suffered heavy damage and casualties in the unequal engagement and could not hope to continue their resistance with the rest of the British squadron rapidly approaching. To the north, \"Infatigable\" had failed to outrun \"Mars\" and Captain Lukin forced the frigate to surrender after a brief cannonade. With three ships lost and the other three long disappeared to the south, Soleil determined to flee westwards, hoping the damage he had inflicted on \"Centaur\"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s sails was sufficient to prevent her pursuit. However, \"Gloire\" had also been damaged and could not distance herself from the British flagship sufficiently before support arrived in the form of \"Mars\". With his ship undamaged, Lukin was able to easily catch the fleeing frigate and opened fire at 14:30, combat continuing for half an hour before Soleil surrendered, his frigate badly damaged. To the south, \"Windsor Castle\" had proven far too slow to catch the smaller French ships, which had easily outrun the second rate and escaped.\n\nIt took some time for the British squadron to effect repairs on their ships and prizes in preparation for the journey back to Britain. They had suffered light casualties of nine killed and 29 wounded, but among the more seriously injured was Hood, whose arm had been amputated during the battle. French losses were much heavier but are unknown: Hood did not include them in his official report but promised to provide them soon afterwards in a follow up letter, which, if it was written, has never been located. All four of the captured frigates were large new vessels that were immediately purchased for service in the Royal Navy, \"Gloire\" and \"Armide\" retaining their names while \"Infatigable\" became HMS \"Immortalite\" and \"Minerve\" became HMS \"Alceste\". Although Hood and his men were commended at the time, subsequent historical focus has been on the bravery of the inexperienced French crews in resisting an attack by an overwhelming force for so long. William James wrote in 1827 of the \"gallant conduct on the part of the French ships\" and William Laird Clowes, writing in 1900 stated that \"The resistance offered by the French to a force so superior was in every way credible\".\n\nWithin days of the action Hood had been promoted to rear-admiral and awarded a pension of £500 a year, but despite his wound he continued in service, fighting a notable action with Russian ships in the Baltic Sea in 1807 and later operating off the Spanish coast in the early Peninsular War. French efforts to resupply their West Indian colonies continued throughout the next three years, costing a heavy toll of men and ships lost to the British blockade. By 1808, the situation in the French Caribbean had become desperate and the French increased their supply convoys, losing five frigates and a ship of the line in failed reinforcement efforts during late 1808 and early 1809. The weakened colonies were unable to resist British attack, and co-ordinated invasions forced the surrender of first Martinique in January 1809 and Guadeloupe a year later, Cayenne and Santo Domingo also falling to British, Spanish and Portuguese forces.\n\n"}
{"id": "2127178", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2127178", "title": "Jose Guerrero", "text": "Jose Guerrero\n\nJosé Guerrero may refer to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2127182", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2127182", "title": "The Smiling Dogs", "text": "The Smiling Dogs\n\nThe Smiling Dogs is the 10th pulp magazine story to feature The Avenger. Written by Paul Ernst, it was published in the June 1, 1940 issue of \"The Avenger\" magazine.\n\nThis novel was re-published under its original title by Paperback Library on March 1, 1973.\n\nA gang murders and schemes to control a remote Montana national park with resources (apparently helium) that will be vital in any upcoming war. The mastermind's strategy is to convince key figures, including Congressmen, that they are seeing things, and to threaten to publicly expose this apparent insanity. The apparition is a remarkably uninvolving small red man leading a smiling green dog, etc.; one of the blackmail targets throws a chair at the small man, which seems about right. Benson must break a code, the team does detective work, Benson impersonates powerful men and infiltrates Congress. He ignores his team's peril out of patriotic duty to protect the country. Nellie escapes from a deathtrap, but is trapped again, and manipulated by the mastermind to trap the team in a tunnel under the Potomac. The mastermind and his gang die, with Benson's help, in their own flooding death trap, from which the Justice, Inc. team escapes with a quite small margin for error. The real reason for the scheme: deposits of pitchblend (radium ore).\n"}
