{"id": "2131262", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2131262", "title": "No. 74 Squadron RAF", "text": "No. 74 Squadron RAF\n\nNumber 74 Squadron, also known as \"Tiger Squadron\" from its tiger-head motif, was a squadron of the Royal Air Force. It operated fighter aircraft from 1917 to the 1990s, and then trainers until its disbandment in 2000. It was the Royal Air Force's member of the NATO Tiger Association from 1961 until the squadron's disbandment, it has since been replaced by No. 230 Squadron.\n\nForming in 1917 as No. 74 (Training Depot) Squadron, the unit began life as a training squadron. Sent to the Western Front in 1918 as No. 74 (Fighter) Squadron, the unit quickly developed a fierce reputation during the First World War due to its pilots having an aggressive 'Tiger' like spirit. With many aces amongst its ranks, Mick Mannock, Taffy Jones and Sydney Carlin, No. 74 (F) Squadron managed 225 victories in only 7 months at the Front. Disbanding shortly after the war, 'the Tigers' returned during the 1935 Abyssinia Crisis, being reformed by the combination of numerous squadron detachments who were aboard a troopship heading to Malta. In the Second World War, No. 74 (F) Squadron fought in the Battle of Britain, spent two years fighting in the Middle East before returning for the Normandy Landings, and participated in the subsequent liberation of Nazi-occupied Europe.\n\nAfter the war, it formed the first all jet fighter wing with No. 616 Squadron and No. 504 Squadron, flying the Gloster Meteor F.3. In 1960, they became the first unit in the RAF to operate the English Electric Lightning F.1. Between 1962 and 1963, No. 74 (F) Squadron operated an aerobatic display team called 'The Tigers' made up of nine Lightnings – it was the first display team in the world to fly aircraft capable of Mach 2. Between 1967 and 1971, they were based at RAF Tengah, Singapore, becoming one of the last RAF Far East Air Force squadrons to operate from there before 'the Tigers' disbanded.\n\nNo. 74 (F) Squadron reformed in October 1984 at RAF Wattisham, Suffolk, flying the unique F-4J(UK) Phantom. These were kept up until January 1991, when they were exchanged for the Spey–powered Phantom FGR.2s. Under the Options for Change defence review in 1990, it was decided to retire the remaining Phantom squadrons (No. 74 (F) Squadron and No. 56 (F) Squadron), with this coming to fruition by October 1992. 'The Tigers' spent their last eight years as No. 74 (Reserve) Squadron, operating the BAe Hawk T.1/T.1A from RAF Valley training future pilots. No. 74 (R) Squadron disbanded for the last time on 22 September 2000.\n\nNo. 74 Squadron was first formed at Northolt on 1 July 1917, as No. 74 (Training Depot) Squadron of the Royal Flying Corps (RFC), before relocating to the aerodrome at London Colney 9 days later. Beginning life as a training unit, the Squadron initially flew the Avro 504Ks, among other types, before working-up to a fighter squadron. In February 1918, Mick Mannock became the flight commander of the Squadron as it reached front-line status, becoming No. 74 (Fighter) Squadron. \nOn 20 March 1918, the Squadron received its first operational fighters, the Royal Aircraft Factory S.E.5a. On 30 March, the Squadron was sent over to the RFC headquarters in Saint-Omer, France. No. 74 (F) Squadron saw its first action on 12 April when it engaged in a dogfight near Merville against the German Luftstreitkräfte, with Mannock scoring 'the Tigers' first kill – an Albatros Scout. Within 70 days of being on the continent, No. 74 (F) Squadron had notched 100 enemy kills to just one loss. The Squadron served in France from April until February 1919, when it returned home to RAF Lopcombe Corner, Hampshire where it was disbanded on 3 July 1919.\n\nDuring its 7-month-long wartime service, it was credited with 140 enemy planes destroyed and 85 driven down out of control, for 225 victories. Seventeen aces had served in the squadron, including Victoria Cross winner Major Edward \"Mick\" Mannock, Ira \"Taffy\" Jones, Benjamin Roxburgh-Smith, future Air Commodore Keith Caldwell, Andrew Kiddie, Frederick Stanley Gordon, Sydney Carlin, Frederick Hunt, Clive Glynn, George Hicks, Wilfred Ernest Young, Henry Dolan, Harris Clements, George Gauld, and \nFrederick Luff.\n\nIn response to the ongoing Abyssinia Crisis of 1935, the Squadron was reformed in unusual circumstances on 3 September. The Squadron was reborn out of the combination of detachments of Nos 3, 23, 32, 56, 65 and 601 Squadrons who were on board the troopship ship Neutralia, which was en route to Malta. After arrival, No. 74 (F) Squadron operated Hawker Demon two-seater fighters. While it had been officially re-established, the Squadron was prohibited from identifying its aircraft by squadron number until 14 November due to security reasons – until then it was referred to as 'Demon Flights'.\n\nIn the following July, the Squadron and its Demons, were shipped back to England, with the Squadron arriving at RAF Hornchurch in September 1936. In February 1937 after years of unofficial use, No. 74 (F) Squadron had its squadron badge design – a tiger's face – officially approved by King George VI. 'The Tigers' re-equipped with Gloster Gauntlets in April 1937, forming part of the newly created Fighter Command. The Gauntlets were kept up until February 1939, when the Squadron began converting to the Supermarine Spitfire Mk.I.\n\nAt the outbreak of war, No. 74 (F) Squadron was operating from RAF Rochford, a satellite aerodrome of RAF Hornchurch. On 6 September 1939, after an early morning air raid alert, a flight of No. 56 (F) Squadron Hawker Hurricanes took off from North Weald. These were followed by two reserve Hurricanes. The two reserves were identified as enemy aircraft and Spitfires from RAF Hornchurch, among them No. 74 (F) Squadron, were ordered to attack them. Both were shot down. One pilot, P/O Montague Hulton-Harrop was killed; the other pilot, Frank Rose, survived. The pilot who fired the fatal shots was No. 74 (F) Squadron's John Freeborn. \nThe exact story of what happened in this incident, which came to be known as the \"Battle of Barking Creek\", may never be known. Even the origin of the name is obscure, as it did not take place above Barking Creek but near Ipswich, in Suffolk. This was the first RAF operational death of the war. At the subsequent court martial, it was accepted that the entire incident was an unfortunate error.\n\nThe Squadron, as part of No. 12 Group RAF, first saw combat in May 1940 during the evacuation from Dunkirk, in battles which exacted a heavy toll on both pilots and aircraft. Thereafter No. 74 (F) Squadron served successfully through the Battle of Britain, being heavily involved throughout June and July. On 11 August, the Squadron flew four sorties and by the end of the day had claimed 24 victories and 14 damaged. In response they received a telegram from the Chief of the Air Staff Sir Cyril Newall which read, \"A magnificent day's fighting, 74... Mannock started it and you keep it up.\" On 14 August, No. 74 (F) Squadron was posted to RAF Wittering for rest and shortly after moved onto RAF Kirton in Lindsey and then onto RAF Coltishall, Norfolk. It was here at Coltishall in September 1940 that the Squadron replaced their Spitfire Mk.Is with the Mk.IIa. The Squadron moved back south to RAF Biggin Hill in October for the end of the Battle. Between November and December 1940, No. 74 (F) Squadron destroyed 38 enemy aircraft. With the Battle of Britain won, the Squadron were posted to RAF Manston in February 1941. The Squadron then went to the north of England to RAF Acklington in July 1941 to regroup, from there moving around to stations in Wales (RAF Llanbedr) and Northern Ireland (RAF Long Kesh). During this time the Governor of Trinidad and Tobago, Sir Hubert Winthrop Young, made a presentation of Spitfires to No. 74 (F) Squadron. This subsequently led to \"The Tigers\" being named the \"Trinidad Squadron\", a name that lasted until the 1950s.\n\nThe Squadron finally made a move from RAF Long Kesh in April 1942 when it was sent the Middle East, arriving in Egypt in June. The ship carrying their aircraft they had been due to fly had been sunk leaving 'The Tigers' without anything to fly. No. 74 (F) Squadron was then moved to Palestine in July where a decision was made for the Squadron to operate as a maintenance unit for USAAF B-24 Liberators. The Squadron finally recovered its air capability in December 1942 when they received Hurricane Mk.IIBs, forming part of No. 219 (Fighter) Group. During this time they operated from RAF Habbaniya in Iraq and were also based in Iran. The Squadron moved back to Egypt in May 1943 in order to carry out shipping patrols. On 23 July, 'The Tigers' took part in a large offensive over Axis-occupied Crete in which they attacked RDF stations and barracks, among other targets, severely damaging them. The Squadron converted back to Spitfires in September 1943, this time to Mk.Vbs and Mk.Vcs, as they were transferred over to Cyprus to participate in the failed Dodecanese campaign. The Squadron withdrew back to Egypt and in late October 1943, the Squadron got Mk.IX Spitfires, which were swapped for Mk.XVIs in March 1944.\n\nNo. 74 (F) Squadron returned home in April 1944 to RAF North Weald before moving onto RAF Lympne. They had arrived back just in time to participate in the buildup for Operation Overlord (the Allied invasion of Normandy in June 1944). It was equipped with the Spitfire Mk.IX HF operating while from RAF Lympne in Air Defence of Great Britain, though under the operational control of RAF Second Tactical Air Force (2nd TAF). During this time they attacked Axis railway yards and escorted Allied bombing raids on V-1 launch sites in occupied France as part of D-Day preparations. On 3 July the Squadron left RAF Lympe for RAF Tangmere, as part of No. 134 Wing, before leaving for Sommervieu, Normandy in August 1944 and joining No. 145 Wing. From here they supported the Allied advance through France, Belgium and the Netherlands in a fighter-bomber role. No. 74 (F) Squadron operated from airbases in Lille, Courtrai, Duerne and Schijndel during this time. In March 1945 the Squadron received Spitfire Mk.XVIs, which they operated alongside their Mk.IXs. On 16 April, 'The Tigers' were based at Drope in Germany, from here they were used to carry out reconnaissance missions over Wilhelmshaven. It was while based here that No. 74 (F) Squadron received news of Germany's surrender. The Squadron finally left Germany on 11 May 1945, returning to Britain.\n\nUpon arrival back to England, No. 74 (F) Squadron converted to their first jet aircraft – the Gloster Meteor F.3, being based at RAF Colerne, Wiltshire. The Squadron soon moved to RAF Bentwaters before finally settling at RAF Horsham St Faith in August 1946. While here, as one of the first adopters of the Meteor F.3, the Squadron formed the first all jet fighter wing with No. 616 Squadron and No. 504 Squadron. 'The Tigers' had a brief stay at RAF Lübeck between July and August 1947. From December 1947 onward the Squadron began to re-equip with Meteor F.4s completing conversion by March 1948. In October 1950 the Squadron received the much improved Meteor F.8. From 1954 onward the Squadron's Meteors began to be camouflaged in Dark Green and Dark Sea Grey, this coincidentally marked the return of \"tiger stripe\" markings on the Squadron's aircraft – something not seen since the Gloster Gauntlets. After 12 years of flying Meteors, No. 74 (F) Squadron converted to the Hawker Hunter F.4 in March 1957. The Hunter F.4s wouldn't be operated for long as the Squadron started to re-equip with Hunter F.6s in November 1957 with the Hunter F.4s being phased out by January 1958.\n\nOn 8 June 1959, the Squadron, under the command of Squadron Leader John \"Johnny\" Howe, moved to RAF Coltishall for re-equipment with the English Electric Lightning F.1 in June 1960; this was the first Squadron in the RAF to receive the Lightning. In 1962, No. 74 (F) Squadron formed an aerobatic display team – 'The Tigers', replacing No. 92 Squadron's Blue Diamonds as the RAF's official display team. On 2 March 1964, the Squadron moved up to RAF Leuchars in Scotland before getting the Lightning F.3 in April. While based at RAF Leuchars, No. 74 (F) Squadron held their first Tiger Meet between 5 and 9 July 1966, having joined the NATO Tiger Association at its inception in 1961. 'The Tigers' upgraded to Lightning F.6s in November 1966, with the last Lightning F.3s remaining up until January 1967. The Squadron moved to RAF Tengah in Singapore in June 1967, where it operated alongside No. 20 Squadron, which flew Hunters, and No. 81 Squadron, which flew Canberra PR.9s. In June 1969 while based in Singapore, four Lightning F.6s flew a distance of 2,000 miles from RAF Tengah to Darwin, Northern Territory in Australia, setting the longest non-stop flight made by a Lightning. In 1971 the Squadron flew its Lightning F.6s to RAF Akrotiri, Cyprus to hand them over to No. 56 (F) Squadron, who were flying Lightning F.3s, and then disbanded on 25 August 1971.\n\nAfter a dormancy of 13 years, No. 74 (Fighter) Squadron was reformed at RAF Wattisham, Suffolk on 19 October 1984, with ex-US Navy McDonnell Douglas F-4J Phantom IIs (designated as the F-4J(UK) in RAF service) that were purchased by the RAF as a stop gap measure to replace those of No. 23 Squadron that had been sent to the Falklands after the war. The 15 F-4Js cost $125 million and underwent a full rework at the Naval Air Rework Facility at Naval Air Station North Island, San Diego. Here they received the ability to use the Skyflash air-to-air missile, their radar was upgraded and were brought up to a spec similar to the more definitive F-4S – they were also sprayed in a distinct duck egg blue colour. The F-4Js were then ferried across the Atlantic in 3 different batches supported by Vickers VC10s, with the last group arriving on 5 January 1985. The Squadron's operational capability was declared on 31 December 1985. On 26 August 1987 No. 74 (F) Squadron lost an F-4J Phantom (ZE358) in a fatal accident near Aberystwyth, Wales. Both crew members, Flt. Lt. Euan Holm Murdoch and Fg. Off. Jeremy Lindsey Ogg were killed.\n\n'The Tigers' operated their unique F-4Js up until January 1991 when they converted over to surplus Phantom FGR.2s, which were available due to other squadrons converting to the Tornado F.3. Plans had originally been for the RAF to retain two Phantom squadrons, 'The Tigers' and her sister No. 56 (F) Squadron ('The Firebirds'), at RAF Wattisham but with the end of the Cold War these plans were shelved. Instead under the Options for Change defence review all remaining Phantoms would be withdrawn from service. No. 74 (F) Squadron participated in their penultimate Tiger Meet as a fighter squadron at Los Llanos Air Base, Spain between 14 and 22 May 1992, in which their entry was a Phantom FGR.2 painted in a full body tiger scheme. Both Phantom squadrons carried out their final Armament Practice Camp (APC) at RAF Akrotiri, Cyprus in early June, marking a draw down in operations.\nOn 13 June 1992, both No. 56 (F) Squadron and No. 74 (F) Squadron participated in Queen Elizabeth II's official birthday flypast over Buckingham Palace with a 16-ship diamond formation (8 Phantoms from each squadron), one of the last acts by the Phantom fleet. By August 1992, No. 56 (F) Squadron had relocated to RAF Coningsby – having stood down on 31 July – and became the Operational Conversion Unit (OCU) for the Tornado F.3, leaving 'The Tigers' as the RAF's last remaining Phantom squadron. Throughout its last year, No. 74 Squadron flew an aerobatic display around the country, sporting colours of both 'the Tigers' and 'the Firebirds'. The Phantom FGR.2 (XT914) was flown by Squadron Leader Archie Liggat and Flt. Lt. Mark \"Manners\" Manwaring. 'The Tigers' held a mini Tiger Meet at RAF Wattisham between 14 and 17 September to mark the Phantom's retirement, inviting the Dutch, French, Portuguese and the USAF among others – British Aerospace Hawk T.1s from 4 FTS, which No. 74 (F) Squadron would soon operate, also participated. One of No. 74 (F) Squadron's last acts was to flyover RAF Wattisham in a diamond nine formation before finally disbanding on 1 October 1992. RAF Wattisham shortly thereafter began its transition over to the Army Air Corps, becoming Wattisham Airfield in March 1993.\n\nOn 5 October 1992, No. 74 (Reserve) Squadron stood up with the Hawk T.1 as part of No. 4 Flying Training School at RAF Valley in the weapon instruction role. At the 1993 Tiger Meet, No. 74 (R) Squadron won the coveted 'Silver Tiger' trophy while competing against the likes of Spanish Mirage F1s and Belgian F-16's; as Flt. Lt. Will Jonas said, \"Not bad for a training unit eh?!\" With the rationalisation of 4 FTS to just two squadrons, No. 74 (R) Squadron was disbanded on 22 September 2000.\n\nIn 2008, No. 74 Squadron would have celebrated its 90th anniversary; however, No. 74 (F) Squadron still lives on through the 74 (F) Tiger Squadron Association, which brings together former Tigers from all generations for a yearly reunion dinner. Pending raising the necessary funds, plans are in place to create a museum dedicated to the Squadron's history at their former RAF base of Horsham St Faith, now Norwich Airport. Since then plans have been made to create a special section at the City of Norwich Aviation Museum dedicated to the 'Tiger Squadron'.\n\nFamous pilots associated with the squadron:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2131266", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2131266", "title": "Compressibility factor", "text": "Compressibility factor\n\nThe compressibility factor (Z), also known as the compression factor or the gas deviation factor, is a correction factor which describes the deviation of a real gas from ideal gas behaviour. It is simply defined as the ratio of the molar volume of a gas to the molar volume of an ideal gas at the same temperature and pressure. It is a useful thermodynamic property for modifying the ideal gas law to account for the real gas behaviour. In general, deviation from ideal behaviour becomes more significant the closer a gas is to a phase change, the lower the temperature or the larger the pressure. Compressibility factor values are usually obtained by calculation from equations of state (EOS), such as the virial equation which take compound-specific empirical constants as input. For a gas that is a mixture of two or more pure gases (air or natural gas, for example), the gas composition must be known before compressibility can be calculated. \nAlternatively, the compressibility factor for specific gases can be read from generalized compressibility charts that plot formula_1 as a function of pressure at constant temperature.\n\nThe compressibility factor should not be confused with the compressibility (also known as coefficient of compressibility or isothermal compressibility) of a material which is the measure of the relative volume change of a fluid or solid in response to a pressure change.\n\nThe compressibility factor is defined in thermodynamics and engineering frequently as:\nwhere p is the pressure, formula_3 is the density of the gas and formula_4 is the specific gas constant, formula_5 being the molar mass, and the formula_6 is the absolute temperature (Kelvin or Rankine scale).\n\nIn statistical mechanics the description is:\nwhere p is the pressure, n is the number of moles of gas, formula_6 is the absolute temperature, and formula_9 is the gas constant.\n\nFor an ideal gas the compressibility factor is formula_10 per definition. In many real world applications requirements for accuracy demand that deviations from ideal gas behaviour, i.e., real gas behaviour, be taken into account. The value of formula_1 generally increases with pressure and decreases with temperature. At high pressures molecules are colliding more often. This allows repulsive forces between molecules to have a noticeable effect, making the molar volume of the real gas (formula_12) greater than the molar volume of the corresponding ideal gas (formula_13), which causes formula_1 to exceed one. When pressures are lower, the molecules are free to move. In this case attractive forces dominate, making formula_15. The closer the gas is to its critical point or its boiling point, the more formula_1 deviates from the ideal case.\n\nThe compressibility factor is linked to the fugacity by the relation\n\nThe unique relationship between the compressibility factor and the reduced temperature, formula_18, and the reduced pressure, formula_19, was first recognized by Johannes Diderik van der Waals in 1873 and is known as the two-parameter principle of corresponding states. The principle of corresponding states expresses the generalization that the properties of a gas which are dependent on intermolecular forces are related to the critical properties of the gas in a universal way. That provides a most important basis for developing correlations of molecular properties.\n\nAs for the compressibility of gases, the principle of corresponding states indicates that any pure gas at the same reduced temperature, formula_18, and reduced pressure, formula_19, should have the same compressibility factor.\n\nThe reduced temperature and pressure are defined by\nHere formula_24 and formula_25 are known as the critical temperature and critical pressure of a gas. They are characteristics of each specific gas with formula_24 being the temperature above which it is not possible to liquify a given gas and formula_25 is the minimum pressure required to liquify a given gas at its critical temperature. Together they define the critical point of a fluid above which distinct liquid and gas phases of a given fluid do not exist.\n\nThe pressure-volume-temperature (PVT) data for real gases varies from one pure gas to another. However, when the compressibility factors of various single-component gases are graphed versus pressure along with temperature isotherms many of the graphs exhibit similar isotherm shapes.\n\nIn order to obtain a generalized graph that can be used for many different gases, the reduced pressure and temperature, formula_19 and formula_18, are used to normalize the compressibility factor data. Figure 2 is an example of a generalized compressibility factor graph derived from hundreds of experimental PVT data points of 10 pure gases, namely methane, ethane, ethylene, propane, n-butane, i-pentane, n-hexane, nitrogen, carbon dioxide and steam.\n\nThere are more detailed generalized compressibility factor graphs based on as many as 25 or more different pure gases, such as the Nelson-Obert graphs. Such graphs are said to have an accuracy within 1–2 percent for formula_1 values greater than 0.6 and within 4–6 percent for formula_1 values of 0.3–0.6.\n\nThe generalized compressibility factor graphs may be considerably in error for strongly polar gases which are gases for which the centers of positive and negative charge do not coincide. In such cases the estimate for formula_1 may be in error by as much as 15–20 percent.\n\nThe quantum gases hydrogen, helium, and neon do not conform to the corresponding-states behavior and the reduced pressure and temperature for those three gases should be redefined in the following manner to improve the accuracy of predicting their compressibility factors when using the generalized graphs:\n\nwhere the temperatures are in kelvins and the pressures are in atmospheres.\n\nIn order to read a compressibility chart, the reduced pressure and temperature must be known. If either the reduced pressure or temperature is unknown, the reduced specific volume must be found. Unlike the reduced pressure and temperature, the reduced specific volume is not found by using the critical volume. The reduced specific volume is defined by,\n\nwhere formula_36 is the specific volume.\n\nOnce two of the three reduced properties are found, the compressibility chart can be used. In a compressibility chart, reduced pressure is on the x-axis and Z is on the y-axis. When given the reduced pressure and temperature, find the given pressure on the x-axis. From there, move up on the chart until the given reduced temperature is found. Z is found by looking where those two points intersect. the same process can be followed if reduced specific volume is given with either reduced pressure or temperature.\n\nThere are three observations that can be made when looking at a generalized compressibility chart. These observations are:\n\n\nThe virial equation is especially useful to describe the causes of non-ideality at a molecular level (very few gases are mono-atomic) as it is derived directly from statistical mechanics:\n\nWhere the coefficients in the numerator are known as virial coefficients and are functions of temperature.\n\nThe virial coefficients account for interactions between successively larger groups of molecules. For example, formula_38 accounts for interactions between pairs, formula_39 for interactions between three gas molecules, and so on. Because interactions between large numbers of molecules are rare, the virial equation is usually truncated after the third term.\n\nThe compressibility factor is linked to the intermolecular-force potential φ by:\n\nThe Real gas article features more theoretical methods to compute compressibility factors.\n\nDeviations of the compressibility factor, \"Z\", from unity are due to attractive and repulsive intermolecular forces. At a given temperature and pressure, repulsive forces tend to make the volume larger than for an ideal gas; when these forces dominate \"Z\" is greater than unity. When attractive forces dominate, \"Z\" is less than unity. The relative importance of attractive forces decreases as temperature increases (see effect on gases).\n\nAs seen above, the behavior of \"Z\" is qualitatively similar for all gases. Molecular nitrogen, N, is used here to further describe and understand that behavior. All data used in this section were obtained from the NIST Chemistry WebBook. It is useful to note that for N the normal boiling point of the liquid is 77.4 K and the critical point is at 126.2 K and 34.0 bar.\nThe figure on the right shows an overview covering a wide temperature range. At low temperature (100 K), the curve has a characteristic check-mark shape, the rising portion of the curve is very nearly directly proportional to pressure. At intermediate temperature (160 K), there is a smooth curve with a broad minimum; although the high pressure portion is again nearly linear, it is no longer directly proportional to pressure. Finally, at high temperature (400 K), \"Z\" is above unity at all pressures. For all curves, \"Z\" approaches the ideal gas value of unity at low pressure and exceeds that value at very high pressure.\nTo better understand these curves, a closer look at the behavior for low temperature and pressure is given in the second figure. All of the curves start out with \"Z\" equal to unity at zero pressure and \"Z\" initially decreases as pressure increases. N is a gas under these conditions, so the distance between molecules is large, but becomes smaller as pressure increases. This increases the attractive interactions between molecules, pulling the molecules closer together and causing the volume to be less than for an ideal gas at the same temperature and pressure. Higher temperature reduces the effect of the attractive interactions and the gas behaves in a more nearly ideal manner.\n\nAs the pressure increases, the gas eventually reaches the gas-liquid coexistence curve, shown by the dashed line in the figure. When that happens, the attractive interactions have become strong enough to overcome the tendency of thermal motion to cause the molecules to spread out; so the gas condenses to form a liquid. Points on the vertical portions of the curves correspond to N being partly gas and partly liquid. On the coexistence curve, there are then two possible values for \"Z\", a larger one corresponding to the gas and a smaller value corresponding to the liquid. Once all the gas has been converted to liquid, the volume decreases only slightly with further increases in pressure; then \"Z\" is very nearly proportional to pressure.\n\nAs temperature and pressure increase along the coexistence curve, the gas becomes more like a liquid and the liquid becomes more like a gas. At the critical point, the two are the same. So for temperatures above the critical temperature (126.2 K), there is no phase transition; as pressure increases the gas gradually transforms into something more like a liquid. Just above the critical point there is a range of pressure for which \"Z\" drops quite rapidly (see the 130 K curve), but at higher temperatures the process is entirely gradual.\n\nThe final figures shows the behavior at temperatures well above the critical temperatures. The repulsive interactions are essentially unaffected by temperature, but the attractive interaction have less and less influence. Thus, at sufficiently high temperature, the repulsive interactions dominate at all pressures.\n\nThis can be seen in the graph showing the high temperature behavior. As temperature increases, the initial slope becomes less negative, the pressure at which \"Z\" is a minimum gets smaller, and the pressure at which repulsive interactions start to dominate, i.e. where \"Z\" goes from less than unity to greater than unity, gets smaller. At the Boyle temperature (327 K for N), the attractive and repulsive effects cancel each other at low pressure. Then \"Z\" remains at the ideal gas value of unity up to pressures of several tens of bar. Above the Boyle temperature, the compressibility factor is always greater than unity and increases slowly but steadily as pressure increases.\n\nIt is extremely difficult to generalize at what pressures or temperatures the deviation from the ideal gas becomes important. As a rule of thumb, the ideal gas law is reasonably accurate up to a pressure of about 2 atm, and even higher for small non-associating molecules. For example, methyl chloride, a highly polar molecule and therefore with significant intermolecular forces, the experimental value for the compressibility factor is formula_41 at a pressure of 10 atm and temperature of 100 °C. For air (small non-polar molecules) at approximately the same conditions, the compressibility factor is only formula_42 (see table below for 10 bars, 400 K).\n\nNormal air comprises in crude numbers 80 percent nitrogen and 20 percent oxygen . Both molecules are small and non-polar (and therefore non-associating). We can therefore expect that the behaviour of air within broad temperature and pressure ranges can be approximated as an ideal gas with reasonable accuracy. Experimental values for the compressibility factor confirm this.\n\nformula_1 values are calculated from values of pressure, volume (or density), and temperature in Vassernan, Kazavchinskii, and Rabinovich, \"Thermophysical Properties of Air and Air Components;' Moscow, Nauka, 1966, and NBS-NSF Trans. TT 70-50095, 1971: and Vassernan and Rabinovich, \"Thermophysical Properties of Liquid Air and Its Component, \"Moscow, 1968, and NBS-NSF Trans. 69-55092, 1970.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2131301", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2131301", "title": "Jeremy Hutchinson (politician)", "text": "Jeremy Hutchinson (politician)\n\nJeremy Young Hutchinson (born March 4, 1974) is a former Republican member of the Arkansas State Senate for District 33 in the capital city of Little Rock, Arkansas. He served in the Arkansas House of Representatives from two different districts in Pulaski County between 2000 and 2007 and as a state senator from 2011 to his resignation in 2018.\n\nOn August 31, 2018, the Department of Justice announced that Hutchinson was indicted by a federal grand jury on 12 wire and tax fraud charges. Hutchinson resigned his office the same day. He faces \"eight counts of wire fraud for spending the campaign funds on personal expenses and falsifying campaign reports and four counts of filing false tax returns from 2011 to 2014.\" On June 25, 2019, Hutchinson pleaded guilty to \"accepting multiple bribes and tax fraud in connection with a multi-district investigation spanning the Western and Eastern Districts of Arkansas and the Western District of Missouri.\"\n\nHutchinson was first elected to the Arkansas House in March 2000, as representative of Arkansas District 31, Pulaski County. At the time he was the youngest member of the Arkansas House. He was re-elected three times and served on the House Judiciary and Insurance and Commerce committees. He was the vice-chair of the Joint Energy Committee and the assistant minority leader from 2002 to 2004.\n\nOn August 4, 2009, Hutchinson announced his intent to run for the Arkansas State Senate from District 22, Pulaski County. On May 18, 2010, he defeated Dan Greenberg, son of the columnist Paul Greenberg, in the Republican primary, 58 to 42 percent. On November 2, 2010, Hutchinson defeated Democratic nominee Dawn Creekmore to claim the District 22 Senate seat. He was re-elected in 2013.\n\nJeremy Hutchinson was named to \"Arkansas Business\"' \"40 under 40\" in 2002. He served on the board of the Arkansas Council on Economic Education. His biography states that in 2005, he was voted \"Best Conservative\" by readers of the Arkansas Times.\n\nHutchinson and his identical twin brother Timothy Chad Hutchinson are the sons of former U.S. Senator Tim Hutchinson and nephews of the Governor of Arkansas, Asa Hutchinson. Timothy Chad Hutchinson represented District 95, Benton County, from 2005 to 2011.\n\nHutchinson is a nephew by marriage of former state senator Kim Hendren of Gravette, Benton County. Kim Hendren's son Jim Hendren, District 2 state senator from Benton County and the senate majority leader, is Hutchinson's cousin.\n\nIn 2006, Hutchinson's mother, Donna Jean King Hutchinson of Bella Vista, Arkansas, was elected to the state House from District 98 in Benton County. She served four two-year terms.\n\nIn 2013, Hutchinson participated in \"active shooter\" training and mistakenly shot a teacher with a rubber bullet who was confronting a so-called \"bad guy\". The experience gave Hutchinson \"some pause\" but failed to shake his confidence in the training plan.\n"}
{"id": "2131305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2131305", "title": "Rolls-Royce Silver Shadow", "text": "Rolls-Royce Silver Shadow\n\nThe Rolls-Royce Silver Shadow is a luxury car that was produced by British automaker Rolls-Royce in various forms from 1965 to 1980. It was the first by the marque to use unitary body and chassis construction.\n\nThe Silver Shadow was produced from 1965 to 1976, and the Silver Shadow II from 1977 to 1980. To date, the combined model run has the largest production volume of any Rolls-Royce.\n\nThe Silver Shadow was designed with several modernisations in response to concerns that the company was falling behind in automotive innovation, most notably its unitary construction.\nStyle-wise, the John Polwhele Blatchley design was a major departure from its predecessor, the Silver Cloud. More than 50% of Silver Clouds had been sold on the domestic market where, by the standards of much of Europe and most of North America, roads were narrow and crowded. The new Shadow was narrower and shorter than the Silver Cloud, but nevertheless managed to offer increased passenger and luggage space thanks to more efficient packaging made possible by unitary construction.\n\nOther new features included disc brakes replacing drums, and independent rear suspension instead of the outdated live axle design of previous Rolls models.\nThe standard wheelbase Silver Shadow measured , and had a book price of £6,557 in the first year of production.\n\nThe Shadow featured a 6.2 L V8 from 1965 to 1969, and a 6.75 L V8 from 1970 to 1980. Both powerplants were coupled to a General Motors-sourced Turbo Hydramatic 400 automatic gearbox, except on pre-1970 right-hand-drive models, which used the same 4-speed automatic gearbox as the Silver Cloud (also sourced from General Motors, the Hydramatic).\n\nA distinctive feature was a high-pressure hydropneumatic suspension system licensed from Citroën, with dual-circuit braking and hydraulic self-levelling suspension. At first, both the front and rear of the car were controlled by the levelling system; the front levelling was deleted in 1969 as it had been determined that the rear levelling did almost all the work. Rolls-Royce achieved a high degree of ride quality with this arrangement.\n\nIn 1977, the model was renamed the Silver Shadow II in recognition of several major changes, most notably rack and pinion steering; modifications to the front suspension improved handling markedly.\n\nExternally, the bumpers were changed from chrome to alloy and rubber starting with the late 1976 Silver Shadows. These new energy-absorbing bumpers had been used in the United States since 1974, as a response to tightening safety standards there. Nonetheless, the bumpers on cars sold outside of North America were still solidly mounted and protruded less. Also now made standard across the board was the deletion of the small grilles mounted beneath the headlamps. Outside of North America, where tall curbs and the like demanded more ground clearance, a front skirt was also fitted to the Silver Shadow II and its sister cars.\n\nIn 1979, 75 Silver Shadow II cars were specially fitted to commemorate the 75th anniversary of the company with the original red \"RR\" badges front and rear, pewter/silver paint, grey leather with red piping, scarlet red carpets, and a silver commemorative placard on the inside of the glove box door. 33 75th anniversary cars were designated for and shipped to the North American market.\n\nA two-door saloon was introduced early in 1966 followed by a convertible in 1967. There are two different versions for the two-door saloon, one by Mulliner Park Ward featuring \"coke bottle\" style fenders and the very rare James Young model which was only built in fifty examples comprising 35 Rolls-Royces and 15 Bentleys. The James Young version was discontinued in 1967, leaving only the curvier Mulliner Park Ward model. \n\nThe convertible variant, by Mulliner Park Ward, was marketed as the Silver Shadow Drophead Coupé.\n\nRolls-Royce considered offering a more exclusive, long-wheelbase Phantom VII model based on the Silver Shadow, but production was not pursued and no prototypes were built. Instead, a long-wheelbase variant, some 4 inches longer to provide additional rear seat legroom, was offered in the United States from May 1969, and available to domestic customers from early 1970. A pilot series of ten long wheelbase cars had been built in 1967 and sold, one of them to Princess Margaret. Some long-wheelbase models were fitted with a privacy glass divider. Outside of North America, the cars with a divider were fitted with a separate air conditioning unit mounted in the boot - North American safety laws made this impossible, as the petrol tank would have had to be relocated. The cars with a divider lost the entire gain in wheelbase. The glass divider was electrically retractable.\n\nInitially, the long-wheelbase model did not have a separate name, but in 1976, with the introduction of the Silver Shadow II, the longer car was dubbed the Silver Wraith II.\n\nThe Wraith II is identified by all alterations found on the Silver Shadow II and additionally an Everflex-covered roof (also available as an option on the Silver Shadow II), a smaller, more formal rear window (some customers deleted the smaller back window: for example Joe Bamford of JCB) and different wheel covers. Some Silver Wraith IIs were also fitted with electric divisions which took up the extra four inches of leg room in the rear.\n\nThe Rolls-Royce factory built a special stretch limousine in 1979. It was ordered by Bhagwan Shree Rajneesh. The religious leader had a collection of 93 Rolls-Royce cars.\n\nIn 1971 the Silver Shadow two door models were given the separate identity of Corniche (with either Rolls-Royce or Bentley badging), and eventually went on to outlive the Silver Shadow by some years with production lasting until 1982 for the coupé and 1996 for the convertible.\n\nAnother coupé variant on the Shadow platform was the Camargue, with bodywork designed by the Italian firm Pininfarina, and production running from 1975 to 1986. The Camargue had the distinction of being the most expensive production Rolls-Royce.\n\nA Bentley version of the Shadow, known as the Bentley T (and Bentley T2 from 1977), was also made. It was mechanically identical and differed only in the badging and design of the radiator shell. The more rounded radiator also required a slightly reshaped bonnet profile. Other modifications were only slight cosmetic ones, a different front bumper and hubcaps. Engine valve covers with a \"Bentley\" logo were only used when the factory had them available.\n\nThe long-wheelbase version of the Bentley T did not have a separate identity and was simply called T long-wheelbase or T2 long-wheelbase. Only a very few of these were built (9 and 10 examples respectively, less than 0.4% of the total long-wheelbase production).\n\nAll two-door cars were also available as Bentleys. However, only one example of a Bentley Camargue was ever produced.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2131310", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2131310", "title": "Outline of Ayyavazhi", "text": "Outline of Ayyavazhi\n\nThe following outline is provided as an overview and topic guide to Ayyavazhi:\n\nAyyavazhi – Indian belief system that originated in South India. It is cited as an independent monistic religion by several newspapers, government reports and academic researchers. In Indian censuses, however, the majority of its followers declare themselves as Hindus. Therefore, Ayyavazhi is also considered a Hindu denomination.\nAyyavazhi is centered on the life and preachings of Lord Vaikundar; its ideas and philosophy are based on the holy texts \"Akilathirattu Ammanai\" and \"Arul Nool\". Accordingly, Vaikundar was the Purna avatar of Lord Narayana. Ayyavazhi shares many ideas with Hinduism in its mythology and practice, but differs considerably in its concepts of good and evil and dharma. Ayyavazhi is closely related to other Indian religions because of its central focus on dharma.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2131329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2131329", "title": "Sean Ryan", "text": "Sean Ryan\n\nSean or Seán Ryan may refer to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2131347", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2131347", "title": "Johann Karl August Musäus", "text": "Johann Karl August Musäus\n\nJohann Karl August Musäus (29 March 1735 – 28 October 1787) was a popular German author and one of the first collectors of German folk stories, most celebrated for his \"Volksmärchen der Deutschen\" (1782–1786), a collection of German fairy tales retold as satires.\n\nBorn in Jena on 29 March 1735, the only son of Joseph Christoph Musäus, a judge. In 1743 his father became a councillor and police magistrate in Eisenach, and the young Musäus moved to live with his godfather and uncle Dr. Johann Weißenborn in Allstedt, who was entrusted with his education and treated Musäus like a son. He continued living with his uncle until he was nineteen years old, even when his uncle became general superintendent of Eisenach in 1744, a move which brought him to the same city as his parents again.\n\nMusäus entered the University of Jena in 1754 to study theology (probably the choice of his godfather rather than his own), and was admitted into German Society around this time, a sign of more than ordinary merit. He received a Master's degree after the usual three and a half years of study, to add to the degree he had received \"honoris causa\" ten years earlier on 13 July 1747, and returned to Eisenach to wait for an appointment in the Church, which he was now licensed for. Despite preaching well, he was not especially devoted to religion, and received no appointment; when after several years he was offered a vacancy as pastor in the nearby countryside, the locals objected on the grounds that \"he had once been seen dancing.\" This finished his hopes of a career in the church, and at the age of twenty-five he became an author of satire.\n\nFrom 1760 to 1762 Musäus published in three volumes his first work, \"Grandison der Zweite\" (\"Grandison the Second\"), afterwards (in 1781–1782) rewritten and issued with a new title, \"Der deutsche Grandison\" (\"The German Grandison\"). The object of this book was to satirize Samuel Richardson's hero Sir Charles Grandison, who had many sentimental admirers in the Holy Roman Empire.\n\nIn 1763 Musäus was made master of the court pages in Weimar, and in 1769 he became professor of Ancient Languages and History at the Wilhelm-Ernst-Gymnasium in Weimar. He became a Freemason in July 1776 at the \"Amalia\" lodge in Weimar, and became a member of the Bavarian Illuminati in August 1783, taking the names \"Priscillianus\" and \"Dante Alighieri\", and becoming presbyter that year.\n\nHis second book, \"Physiognomische Reisen\", did not appear until 1778/79. It was directed against Lavater, and attracted much favorable attention. From 1782 to 1786 he published his best work, \"Volksmärchen der Deutschen\", a collection of German fairy tales. Even in this series of tales, the substance of which Musäus collected among the people, he could not refrain from satire. The stories, therefore, lack the simplicity of genuine folk-lore. In 1785 was issued \"Freund Heins Erscheinungen in Holbeins Manier\" by Johann Rudolph Schellenberg, with explanations in prose and verse by Musäus. He was prevented from completing a collection of stories entitled \"Straussfedern\" (though one volume was published in 1787) by his death on 28 October 1787 in Weimar, where he is buried in the Jacobsfriedhof.\n\nMusäus' \"Nachgelassene Schriften\" (1791) were published posthumously, edited by his relative, August von Kotzebue. The \"Straussfedern\" continued to be published by the bookseller Christoph Friedrich Nicolai, with contributions by Ludwig Tieck (1795–1798).\n\nMusäus' \"Volksmärchen\" were an early part of the revived interest in fairy tales (which had declined since their late-17th century peak) caused by the rise of romanticism and Romantic nationalism. This trend continued in the nineteenth century and included others, such as Benedikte Naubert and the Brothers Grimm.\nThe \"Volksmärchen\" have been frequently reprinted (Düsseldorf, 1903, etc.) and translated. Five of the tales were translated into English by William Thomas Beckford as \"Popular Tales of the Germans\" (1791), and three were included in \"German Romance\" (1827) translated by Thomas Carlyle. They were also translated into French a number of times, including as \"Contes populaires des Allemands\" (1803) by J. Lefèvre, a translation of two of the stories by Isabelle de Montolieu (1803), and another complete translation with an introduction by Charles Paul de Kock (1826) among others.\n\nThe last of the \"\"Legenden vom Rübezahl\"\" (\"Legends of Rübezahl\") in the \"Volksmärchen\" was said by Henry A. Pochmann and others to have inspired the Headless Horseman of Washington Irving's \"The Legend of Sleepy Hollow\" (1820).\n\nAnother of the \"Volksmärchen\", \"Der geraubte Schleier\" (\"The Stolen Veil\"), a tale about a Swan maiden, was used by Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky to provide the plot outline of \"Swan Lake\" (1876), though the extent of Tchaikovsky's use of Musäus' story is challenged by some such as Russian ballet patriarch Fyodor Lopukhov, who argue the ballet is essentially Russian.\n\nOne of the \"Volksmärchen\" translated into French (\"Stumme Liebe\" translated as \"L'Amour Muet\") was contained in Jean-Baptiste Benoît Eyriès' \"Fantasmagoriana\" (1812) along with seven other German ghost-stories. This collection was read by Lord Byron, Percy Bysshe Shelley, Mary Shelley, Claire Clairmont and John William Polidori in the summer of 1816, and inspired them to try to write their own ghost-stories. Lord Byron wrote a fragment of a novel that is considered the first modern vampire story, Polidori wrote \"The Vampyre\" based on this, and Mary Shelley went on to write \"Frankenstein\". Five of the eight stories in \"Fantasmagoriana\" were translated into English by Sarah Elizabeth Utterson as \"Tales of the Dead\" (1813), including an abridged form of \"Stumme Liebe\" as \"The Spectre-Barber\".\n\nHis collected folk tales continue to be adapted, such as the story of Libussa and Premysl in the 2009 film \"The Pagan Queen\".\n\nAn asteroid discovered on 6 April 1989 was named 10749 Musäus after him.\n\n"}
{"id": "2131348", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2131348", "title": "Public Library of Cincinnati and Hamilton County", "text": "Public Library of Cincinnati and Hamilton County\n\nThe Public Library of Cincinnati and Hamilton County (PLCH) is a public library system in the United States. In addition to its main library location in downtown Cincinnati, Ohio, PLCH operates 41 regional and branch locations throughout Hamilton County.\n\n, the PLCH's collection holds about nine and a half million volumes, making it the 13th-largest library in the U.S. \nIn 2008, PLCH had an annual circulation of over fifteen million items. The downtown location alone circulates over four million items annually, the most of any single library location in the country, and has an area of . PLCH's various locations had 5,661,940 visitors in 2008.\n\nIn 2018 \"Library Journal\" gave the library their highest rating of five stars, scoring it second in the nation among libraries with expenditures over US$30 million.\n\nAmong PLCH's collections are books, audiobooks, downloadable digital audio and e-books, magazines, newspapers, CDs, videos, DVDs, CD-ROMs, sheet music, slides, microfilm, microfiche, and Braille. It offers free internet and free Wi-Fi, in addition to over 15,500 free programs each year for patrons. In 2005, its staff answered 1.7 million reference questions by phone, fax, e-mail, post, and in person. The Main Branch is a selective federal depository library.\n\nThe library's website provides access to the library catalog, nearly 150 commercial research databases, bestseller lists, staff reading recommendations, and other information resources.\n\nSpecial needs services provided by PLCH include \"talking books\" and Braille to the visually impaired, blind, and physically handicapped in 33 Ohio counties; its outreach services include books-by-mail, foreign language materials and bilingual programs, and passport application; its literacy services include GED classes and GED practice testing.\n\nPLCH holds one of the largest genealogical collections in the United States. Online postings include Cincinnati and Norwood, Ohio city directories, Sanborn maps, and yearbooks as well as books relating to local history.\n\nIn 2015, the Library opened its first MakerSpace at the Main Library downtown. Later that year, branch MakerSpaces also opened at the Reading and St. Bernard locations.\n\nIn addition to its large book collection, the Library also has many specialized collections, most of which are housed in the main library. Highlights of special book collections include:\n\nPLCH traces its roots to a subscription library that began in 1802. On March 14, 1853, it became the Cincinnati Public Library. Since its founding, the library has occupied several locations, including its current location at Eighth Street and Vine Street.\n\nCincinnati's public library was among the first to try providing service to patrons on Sunday. Starting in March 1871, the reading rooms at the main library were open from 8am to 10pm. Sunday library service was so popular that, according to library director William F. Poole, \"often during the afternoon and evenings every seat has been occupied\". As a result of Cincinnati's experiment, the public libraries in New York, Philadelphia, and St. Louis adopted Sunday hours as well. Poole reported that \"many of that class of young men who [had previously] strolled about the streets on Sunday, and spent the day in a less profitable manner, [began] habitually frequenting the rooms and spending a portion of the day in reading.\"\n\nFor many years, the library used the Computerized Information Network for Cincinnati and Hamilton County (CINCH) as a system-wide library catalog which connected each branch through computer terminals. Users at home accessed the database via TELNET. In 2005, the system was replaced with an integrated library system (ILS) purchased from library automation vendor Sirsi, now SirsiDynix.\n\nBeginning in 2001, budget cuts from the State of Ohio drastically reduced funding for PLCH. In July 2002, the Board of Trustees voted to close branch locations in Deer Park, Elmwood Place, Greenhills and Mount Healthy. The board later backed off on the branch closing plan after a strong negative response from citizens in the affected neighborhoods.\n\nIn 2005, the library received the American Library Association's John Cotton Dana Public Relations Award.\n\nIn 2005, a state budget plan that cut spending on libraries a further five percent was passed in the Ohio House of Representatives, after being proposed by Ohio governor Bob Taft. The budget prompted the library to distribute flyers and hold rallies in Downtown Cincinnati, calling on the state to repeal the proposed cuts. The cuts resulted in a periodic hiring freeze, reductions in hours, branch and department closings, and the layoff of approximately forty librarians. Librarians responded by voting to join the Service Employees International Union (SEIU) Local 1199 in 2006.\n\nAfter nine months of contentious negotiations over a union contract, the parties (SEIU and the library administration) resorted to a hearing in front of a third-party neutral negotiator, who drew up a labor contract. Librarians voted 45–1 to approve the contract. The library's Board of Trustees subsequently voted the contract down by a 7–0 vote, citing concerns over 'fair share' proposals built into the contract. After further negotiations between SEIU and attorneys for the library, the Board approved a union contract that did not include fair share. See the Agency shop article for clarification.\n\nIn 2007, the library began implementing a reorganization plan, known as ML/21 (Main Library for the 21st Century), that will lead to the creation of a Technology Center, Teen Center, a Popular Library, and a Local History and Genealogy Department. The plan also calls for the disbanding of subject departments in Art and Music, Literature and Languages, History and Genealogy, Rare Books and Special Collections, Science and Technology, Government and Business, Education and Religion, Fiction and Young Adults, and Films and Recordings. The latter two departments will comprise the new Popular Library. The History and Genealogy Department will be merged with Rare Books and Special Collections to create the Local History and Genealogy department. The other subject departments will comprise the Information and Reference department. Approximately 24 professional positions (those holding a Master of Library and Information Science) are slated for elimination through attrition and reassignment.\n\nFrom July 2007 to mid 2008, the library joined with Kirtas Technologies, Inc. to digitize rare books and make them available via Amazon.com. The library no longer participates in the program, but profits from sales of the digitized books were shared with the library. Other institutions involved in the plan included the University of Maine, Emory University in Atlanta, and the Toronto Public Library in Ontario. Digitized material, including books, maps, yearbooks, and city directories, are available via the Public Library of Cincinnati and Hamilton County's Virtual Library.\n\nFifteen individuals have served as Directors of the Public Library of Cincinnati and Hamilton County:\n\n\nPLCH has 40 branch locations, in addition to the main library downtown:\n\nLocations marked with asterisks were built as Carnegie libraries.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2131354", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2131354", "title": "Shot tower", "text": "Shot tower\n\nA shot tower is a tower designed for the production of small-diameter shot balls by free fall of molten lead, which is then caught in a water basin. The shot is primarily used for projectiles in shotguns, and also for ballast, radiation shielding, and other applications in which small lead balls are useful.\n\nIn a shot tower, lead is heated until molten, then dropped through a copper sieve high in the tower. The liquid lead forms tiny spherical balls by surface tension, and solidifies as it falls. The partially cooled balls are caught at the floor of the tower in a water-filled basin. The now fully cooled balls are checked for roundness and sorted by size; those that are \"out of round\" are remelted. A slightly inclined table is used for checking roundness. To make larger shot sizes, a copper sieve with larger holes is used. \n\nThe maximum size is limited by the height of the tower, because larger shot sizes must fall farther to solidify. A shot tower with a 40-meter drop can produce up to #6 shot (nominally 2.4mm in diameter) while an 80-meter drop can produce #2 shot (nominally 3.8mm in diameter). Polishing with a small amount of graphite is necessary for lubrication and to prevent oxidation.\n\nThe process was invented by William Watts of Bristol, UK, and patented in 1782. The same year, Watts extended his house in Redcliffe, Bristol to build the first shot tower. Use of shot towers replaced earlier techniques of casting shot in moulds, which was expensive, or of dripping molten lead into water barrels, which produced insufficiently spherical balls. Large shot which could not be made by the shot tower was made by tumbling pieces of cut lead sheet in a barrel until round.\n\nThe \"wind tower\" method, which used a blast of cold air to dramatically shorten the drop necessary and was patented in 1848 by the T.O LeRoy Company of New York City, meant that tall shot towers became unnecessary, but many were still constructed into the late 1880s, and two surviving examples date from 1916 and 1969. Since the 1960s the Bliemeister method has been used to make smaller shot sizes, and larger sizes are made by the cold swaging process of feeding calibrated lengths of wire into hemispherical dies and stamping them into spheres.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2131368", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2131368", "title": "Syd Barrett (album)", "text": "Syd Barrett (album)\n\nSyd Barrett is a 1974 double-album pairing of Syd Barrett's two solo albums, \"The Madcap Laughs\" and \"Barrett\", both originally released in the UK in 1970.\n\nDuring the summer of 1965, Barrett had his first acid trip in the garden of his friend Dave Gale, with Ian Moore and Storm Thorgerson. While on the influence of the acid, Barrett had placed an orange, plum and a matchbox into a corner, while staring at the fruit, which he claimed symbolized \"Venus and Jupiter\". Thorgerson used this imagery when he added these items to the cover of \"Syd Barrett\".\n\nAfter the unexpectedly massive success of Pink Floyd's \"The Dark Side of the Moon\", EMI re-issued the Barrett-era albums \"The Piper at the Gates of Dawn\" and \"A Saucerful of Secrets\" as \"A Nice Pair\" in the hope that fans would be interested in the band's earlier work with Barrett. Once that was a success, primarily in the US where neither album had been issued initially, \"Syd Barrett\" was compiled to meet demand.\n\nAs a result, \"The Madcap Laughs/Barrett\" (as it was titled in the US) made number 163, giving Barrett his only US chart album.\n\nAll songs by Syd Barrett, except where noted.\n\n\n\nAlbum - Billboard\n"}
{"id": "2131375", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2131375", "title": "New Cross house fire", "text": "New Cross house fire\n\nThe New Cross house fire was a fire that occurred during a party at a house in New Cross, south-east London, in the early hours of Sunday, 18 January 1981. The blaze killed thirteen young people aged between 14 and 22, and one survivor committed suicide two years later.\n\nNo one has ever been charged in connection to the fire, which forensic science subsequently established was started from inside the house, either by accident or deliberately.\n\nThe party was a joint birthday celebration for Yvonne Ruddock (one of the victims of the fire) and Angela Jackson (who survived) and was held at No. 439, New Cross Road. It began on the evening of Saturday, 17 January 1981 and continued throughout the night and into the early hours of Sunday, 18 January.\n\nAt the time, there was a fairly high degree of racial tension in the area and far-right groups, including the National Front, were active locally.\n\nThere had also been some early complaints from neighbours about excessive noise from the party.\n\nA white Austin Princess car was seen driving away from the fire.\n\nThe initial police suspicion was that the party had been fire-bombed, either as a revenge attack or in an attempt to stop the noise; there was also an alternative theory that a fight had broken out, from which the blaze emanated.\n\nSubsequent forensic investigation found that the fire had started by an armchair inside the front room of the property at 5:40am on Sunday morning, and police ruled out the theory that a fight had taken place.\n\nOne week after the fire, on 25 January, a meeting was held at the Moonshot Club in New Cross, attended by more than one thousand people. The meeting concluded with a march to the scene of the fire and a demonstration there, which blocked New Cross Road for several hours. The New Cross Massacre Action Committee (NCMAC) was set up, chaired by John La Rose, and organised weekly meetings in New Cross, which saw increasing participation as the police investigation announced that there was no evidence of arson and that the fire was believed to be accidental.\n\nThe Action Committee organised a \"Black People's Day of Action\" on 2 March, when 20,000 people marched over a period of eight hours from Fordham Park to Hyde Park carrying placards that bore statements including: \"Thirteen Dead and Nothing Said\", \"No Police Cover-Up\" and \"Blood Ah Go Run If Justice No Come\". One slogan read: \"Dame Jill Knight Set The Fire Alight!\" — an apparent reference to a controversial speech by Dame Jill Knight, a right-wing member of the ruling Conservative party, which was widely interpreted as condoning or even encouraging \"direct action\" against noisy parties.\n\nThe march was overwhelmingly peaceful but \"The Sun\" newspaper reported it with the headline: \"Day the blacks ran riot in London\"[Source?]. References in other newspapers were typically cursory mentions. None of the reports mentioned the fact that the march was cut in two at Blackfriars Bridge by police. This unexplained action created delay, confusion and frustration, and was seen as an attempt to stop the march. It also isolated the stewards and march leaders from the general public who had joined the march at the rear. Press indifference or outright hostility led to an increasing division between some elements of the black and white communities.\n\nA survivor of the fire, Anthony Berbeck, apparently committed suicide on 9 July 1983 by jumping from the balcony of a block of council flats in south London. He had been traumatised by the death of his friends in the blaze.\n\nThe inquest into the deaths of the 13 teenagers saw criticism of the police. The coroner's summary for the jury was heavily directed towards suggesting the fire was accidental, and the jury returned an open verdict which implied agreement. The victims' families challenged the procedure and while the High Court agreed that the summing-up was inaccurate, it did not overturn the verdict.\n\nIn 2002 a new action in the High Court led to an order for a second inquest, which was held in 2004, This second inquest also resulted in an open verdict.\n\nThe deaths in the fire were commemorated in a number of reggae songs and poems at the time, including Johnny Osbourne's \"13 Dead and Nothing Said\", Benjamin Zephaniah's \"13 Dead\" and Linton Kwesi Johnson's \"New Crass Massakah\".\n\nOn 14 January 2011 an event called \"Remembering the New Cross Fire 30 Years On\" was held at the Albany Theatre in Deptford. The event was hosted by Kwame Kwei-Armah and was an evening of spoken word, film, discussion and Lovers rock music. It featured contributions from Alex Pascall, Professor Gus John, filmmaker Menelik Shabazz, spoken-word artists El Crisis and Zena Edwards, novelist Courttia Newland and musicians Janet Kay and Carroll Thompson. Many of the victims' families and the survivors attended the event.\n\nSt. Andrew's church in Brockley has a strong connection with the victims as many of them attended the youth club there. In October 2002, Lewisham council installed a special stained-glass window at the church in their memory. On 16 January 2011 a memorial service was held there, with speakers including George Francis, chair of the New Cross Fire Parents' Committee; Lewisham council leader Steve Bullock; and Joan Ruddock, MP for Lewisham Deptford.\n\nThe victims were also commemorated in January 2011 with a blue plaque from Nubian Jak Community Trust. There is a stone memorial in Fordham Park, Deptford, listing those who died; facing the stone memorial is a bench with a memorial inscription. Both were installed in 2012.\n\nThere is also a memorial to the victims consisting of a park bench plus 13 trees with a plaque at either end on Hackney Downs in east London and a memorial plaque on the wall of Catford Civic Hall listing the names of the \"fourteen young people who died in the New Cross Fire of 18th January 1981\".\n\nIn 2017, the \"13 Dead, Nothing Said\" exhibition was hosted at Goldsmiths College, University of London. The exhibition presents a body of photographs taken by Vron Ware documenting the Black People's Day of Action on 2 March 1981.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2131395", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2131395", "title": "Das klagende Lied", "text": "Das klagende Lied\n\nDas klagende Lied (\"Song of Lamentation\") is a cantata by Gustav Mahler, composed between 1878 and 1880 and greatly revised over the next two decades. In its original form, \"Das klagende Lied\" is one of the earliest of his works to have survived (the Piano Quartet movement in A minor is believed to date from 1876).\n\nMahler began to write the text of \"Das klagende Lied\" (possibly basing it on the fairy-tale of the same name by Ludwig Bechstein and/or \"Der singende Knochen\" (\"The Singing Bone\") by Jacob and Wilhelm Grimm) during the early part of his final year in the Vienna Conservatory, where he was a student between 1875 and 1878. The draft text for the work is dated 18 March 1878, and composition of the music began in autumn of 1879 and was completed on 1 November 1880. The work is laid out on a very large and complex scale, requiring a large orchestra and taking 60–70 minutes to perform in full.\n\nAs originally composed, \"Das klagende Lied\" was in three parts:\n\n\nThe first performance did not take place until 1901, by which time Mahler had subjected his original score to several major revisions. The first revision of the work took place in the second half of 1893. This featured a significant reduction and re-arrangement of the orchestral and vocal forces, with the number of harps in the first part being reduced from six to two, and the vocal soloists from eleven to four. The boys’ voices were also removed. The off-stage orchestra, which had played an important role in the original score, was also completely removed from the second and third parts. In spite of having lavished such detailed effort on revising the work's first part, Mahler then decided (Autumn 1893) to omit it completely.\n\nFurther revisions to what was now a work in two parts (after the omission of the original first part) were made between September and December 1898. At this point, Mahler’s previous decision to remove the off-stage brass was reversed. The 1898 revisions were in fact so extensive that Mahler had to write out an entirely new manuscript score.\n\nThe first performance of \"Das klagende Lied\" took place on 17 February 1901 in Vienna, with Mahler himself conducting. It was in this two-part version that the work was published and entered the repertoire. Once the manuscript of the original three-part version came to light in 1969, however, the earlier score came to be regularly performed and recorded as well. The score of the three-part version was published as part of the Gustav Mahler Edition in 1997.\n\nIt includes a mixed choir (SATB) and vocal soloists: soprano, contralto, tenor, baritone, boy soprano, boy alto.\n\nPart I: Waldmärchen \"(Forest Legend)\"\n\nA beautiful yet scornful queen decides to hold a contest, the winner of which will be awarded her hand in marriage. The knight who finds a red flower in the forest, she announces, will be judged the winner. Two brothers in particular, one kind and chivalrous, the other wicked and blasphemous, venture into the thicket to find the elusive flower. The gallant brother quickly finds the flower, places it in his cap, and dozes off in the field. Coming upon this scene, the wayward brother draws his sword and kills his sibling, seizing the flower for himself.\n\nPart II: Der Spielmann \"(The Minstrel)\"\n\nA minstrel, wandering through the forest, stumbles across a bleached bone in the shade of a willow tree and carves it into a flute. The slain brother sings through the flute, telling the minstrel the details of his unfortunate death. The minstrel resolves to find the queen and inform her of what he has learned.\n\nPart III: Hochzeitsstück \"(Wedding Piece)\"\n\nOn the same day the minstrel is to arrive at the castle to divulge his discovery, a celebration in honour of the queen's marriage takes place. The murderer-knight, quiet and pale, reflects morbidly on his rash course of action. The minstrel arrives and plays the slain knight's bone-flute. The king-to-be confiscates the flute, but upon playing it himself is accused by his brother of ending his life early for an unjust reason. Pandemonium ensues: the queen faints, the partygoers flee, and the castle collapses.\n\n"}
{"id": "2131406", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2131406", "title": "Simca 1100", "text": "Simca 1100\n\nThe Simca 1100 is a car built from 1967 to 1982 by Simca. It was replaced by the Simca-Talbot Horizon.\n\nThe 1100 was the result of \"Project 928\", started in 1962, finalized by engineers Philippe Grundeler and Charles Scales. The design was a result of Simca's market research in the early 1960s, which showed the increasing popularity of front wheel drive cars that provided better utilization of space and comfort in small cars. In Spring 1962, Simca organized a 1966–67 launch of a new range of front wheel drive cars with saloons, estates cars and light commercial vehicles to be included, all fitting into France's 6CV tax class – between the Simca Mille and Simca 1300. Both transverse and longitudinal engine placement were tested, and in 1963 the transverse-engine design was approved. The Simca 1100 was one of the first designs outside Fiat to feature a transverse engine with an end-on gearbox and unequal length driveshafts (now near-universal amongst small cars), a possible result of Fiat influence as a major shareholder.\n\nIn 1963, Chrysler took a controlling interest in Simca, approving the project in 1964, with a production target of summer 1967. The short timetable included developing a new transmission, and using a larger version of the rear engined rear wheel drive Simca Mille (Simca 1000) \"Poissy engine\", displacing 1118 cc (the Mille used a 1.0 litre engine, the 1500 a 1.5 litre engine).\n\nWhen first shown on Sardinia and at the Paris Auto Show in 1967, the 1100 was advanced in design, featuring a hatchback with folding rear seats, disc brakes, rack and pinion steering, an independent front (double wishbone) and rear (trailing arm) suspension using torsion bars. Numerous permutations were available, with a manual, automatic and semi-automatic transmission. The engine was slanted to allow for a lower bonnet; and the engine, gearbox, and suspension were carried on a subframe to allow the unibody to be relatively unstressed. The body was welded to the frame, not bolted. The 1100 was reportedly studied closely by Volkswagen when the latter company was designing its Volkswagen Golf, after making rear-engined, rear-wheel-drive vehicles.\n\nThe 1100 was one of the first hatchback designs to enter production, with a folding rear seat and in three and five-door variations. It was similar in concept to another French car, the Renault 16, which had been launched two years before.\n\nDifferent equipment levels were defined as LS, GL, GLS and \"Special\" tags. Three- and five-door estate cars were also included in the range.\n\nThe car was fitted with Simca Type 315 petrol OHV \"Poissy engines\" with 944, 1118, and 1294 cc variants, depending on year and market. A \"stroked\" 1118 cc engine displacing 1.2 litres was introduced in 1971 to the UK market as the Simca 1204. It was also sold in the US in limited quantities. In 1974, the sporty TI appeared with the 1294 cc engine (82 PS), at the time when the car also saw a cosmetic redesign. Based on the 1100 chassis, the Matra engineering firm created a crossover derivation named Matra Rancho.\n\nThe 1100 had a four-speed manual gearbox and room for five people. There was also a three-speed semi-automatic gearbox that required manual shifting but used an electronically activated clutch. The 1100s transmission configuration was the same as the one introduced by Fiat on the 1964 Autobianchi Primula, in that it was transverse and axial with the engine giving the \"engine on one side, transmission on the other\" layout copied on almost all \"hatchbacks\" and front wheel drive vehicles throughout the world ever since. In France, the 1100 was very successful, achieving best-seller status, but it was less competitive in non-European export markets.\n\nThe First \"Hot Hatch\".\n\nPerhaps the car with the strongest claim to be the first \"Hot hatch\" was the Simca 1100 Ti which was available on sale in 1974 with 82hp (up over 40% from 58hp of the standard models) which dramatically improved performance and sent the top speed over 100mph for the first time to 105mph and a 0-60mph time of 12 seconds. Based on the 1100 Special introduced in 1970, distinguishing features of this performance version were its six-headlamp and foglight arrangement, front disc brakes, front and rear spoilers, alloy wheels, matte black grille and single colour paint scheme (red), items which would be adopted by the many hot hatches that would follow. Based on the Simca 1100 range introduced in 1967, the front wheel drive hatchback was a top seller throughout Europe and said to have inspired VW to replace its rear-engined range with a new front-engine product range including the Polo and Golf. Another early hot hatch was the Renault 5 Alpine (called Gordini in the UK due to Chrysler owning the Alpine model name there) which first went on sale in May 1976 and also pre-dated sales of the Volkswagen Golf GTi, by two months. The 1100Ti was never sold in RHD in the UK.\n\nThree LCV versions with van, pick up and High Top Van bodystyles were also available. In France and most European markets these were sold as the \"Simca 1100 Fourgonnette\". In the UK the high-roof van was called the Simca VF2 (short for \"Voiture Fourgonnette\"), and was sold from December 1972. The regular low-roof van was called the VF1, while an even higher roofed version introduced for 1978 became the VF3. The pick-up model arrived in December 1975. Commercial versions lasted until the spring of 1985, three years after the 1100 passenger car models had been removed from the market. In the United Kingdom, commercial models assumed the Dodge nameplate after 1976 and were called Talbots after 1979. The commercial models were sold as 'Simca Fixaren' (\"the fixer\") in Sweden, where they were fitted with a version of the 1.3 litre engine.\n\nIn addition to the dedicated van models, there was also a two-seater commercial version of the three-door hatchback available to French customers from December 1976. This, the 1100 AS (for \"Affaires et Societés\", businesses and companies) qualified for a considerably lower tax rate.\n\nThe 1100 was introduced in the U.S. in 1969 as the Simca 1204 because it had a larger 1204 cc engine that produced 62 horsepower. Both the hatchback and station wagon models were offered. The car was not successful in America, and Simca left the U.S. market in 1972.\n\nDuring the first full year of production 1968, volumes were already strong with 138,242 vehicles made. Importantly, incremental sales appeared to come mostly from competitor manufacturers, since overall Simca production surged from 251,056 cars in 1967 to 350,083 in 1968, and volumes for the slightly smaller Simca 1000 were virtually identical in each of these two years.\n\nProduction peaked in 1973, with nearly 300,000 Simca 1100s rolling off the assembly line. However, production fell rapidly through 1977, when over 142,000 1100s were made, and in 1978 (with the Chrysler Horizon launched in February 1978), just half that number (72,695) of Simca 1100s was made. Volumes dwindled to below 20,000 in 1981 which was the last year of production in France, though in Spain production continued through to 1982 of the car and 1985 for the van version.\n\nThe Simca 1100 was produced in different places; in Sweden, local production was handled by Phillipsons, on the same assembly lines that made Mercedes-Benz cars, and also in Madrid (Spain) at the former Barreiros Diesel factory. Spanish-built 1100s were marketed as the Simca 1200 and the TI version had an 1442 cc engine.\n\nA total of 2.2 million cars were produced. The replacement for the 1100, the C2 project, was unveiled at the end of 1977 as the Chrysler Horizon - Chrysler's \"world car\" - and was an enormous success in the United States, where it sold as the Dodge Omni and Plymouth Horizon. In Europe it was briefly sold as the Chrysler Horizon in the UK and the Simca Horizon in the rest of Europe, before being rebranded as a Talbot following Peugeot's takeover of Chrysler Europe. The 1100 remained in production alongside it in France until 1982 and elsewhere until 1985, also under the Talbot brand.\n\nThe 1100 was also the basis for the Matra Rancho, an early crossover which had a genuine offroad appearance but was built on the front-wheel drive Simca 1100 basis.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2131417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2131417", "title": "Habib's", "text": "Habib's\n\nHabib's is a Brazilian fast food company that specialises in Middle Eastern cuisine and Brazilian sandwiches. It has more than 475 outlets (many of them self-owned) across the country and has recently begun expansion into foreign markets. It is known for very low prices and exotic dishes. Middle Eastern dishes are very popular in Brazil ever since the immigration of people from that area (particularly Lebanon and Syria) into Brazil, despite their numbers being less than 5% of the overall population.\n\nHabib's was founded by a Portuguese-born baker, Alberto Saraiva, who had no particular ties to the Middle East himself, got the idea early in 1988 after an ailing old man of Arab descent applied for a job in his bakery. With no job at hand for the man to apply to, but upon learning that he had been a cook back in his home land, Mr. Saraiva decided to open a small fast-food restaurant focused on Middle-Eastern fast-food, unheard at the time in Brazil, believing the success could rely on the novelty of it, and hired the man. The first Habib's restaurant was opened later that same year.\n\nBefore Habib's, Middle Eastern cuisine, despite being popular, was not readily available and the prices were usually high. The repressed demand was strong and people queued in front of the restaurant almost since the first day. Catering to this demand, Habib's soon started to grow and became one of Brazil's most thriving businesses. Habib's is currently the biggest Arabic fast-food in the world and the third biggest fast-food company in Brazil.\n\nHabib's has been probing the foreign market for quite some time, and attempts to set up stores across Mexico were made in 2001.\n\n"}
{"id": "2131428", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2131428", "title": "Supercritical drying", "text": "Supercritical drying\n\nSupercritical drying, also known as critical point drying, is a process to remove liquid in a precise and controlled way. It is useful in the production of microelectromechanical systems (MEMS), the drying of spices, the production of aerogel, the decaffeination of coffee and in the preparation of biological specimens for scanning electron microscopy.\n\nAs the substance in a liquid body crosses the boundary from liquid to gas (see green arrow in phase diagram), the liquid changes into gas at a finite rate, while the amount of liquid decreases. When this happens within a heterogeneous environment, surface tension in the liquid body pulls against any solid structures the liquid might be in contact with. Delicate structures such as cell walls, the dendrites in silica gel, and the tiny machinery of microelectromechanical devices, tend to be broken apart by this surface tension as the liquid–gas–solid junction moves by.\n\nTo avoid this, the sample can be brought via two possible alternate paths from the liquid phase to the gas phase without crossing the liquid–gas boundary on the phase diagram. In freeze-drying, this means going around to the left (low temperature, low pressure; blue arrow). However, some structures are disrupted even by the solid–gas boundary. Supercritical drying, on the other hand, goes around the line to the right, on the high-temperature, high-pressure side (red arrow). This route from liquid to gas does not cross any phase boundary, instead passing through the supercritical region, where the distinction between gas and liquid ceases to apply. Densities of the liquid phase and vapor phase become equal at critical point of drying.\n\nFluids suitable for supercritical drying include carbon dioxide (critical point 304.25 K at 7.39 MPa or 31.1 °C at 1072 psi) and freon (≈300 K at 3.5–4 MPa or 25–0 °C at 500–600 psi). Nitrous oxide has similar physical behavior to carbon dioxide, but is a powerful oxidizer in its supercritical state. Supercritical water is inconvenient due to possible heat damage to a sample at its critical point temperature (647 K, 374 °C) and corrosiveness of water at such high temperatures and pressures (22.064 MPa, 3,212 psi).\n\nIn most such processes, acetone is first used to wash away all water, exploiting the complete miscibility of these two fluids. The acetone is then washed away with high pressure liquid carbon dioxide, the industry standard now that freon is unavailable. The liquid carbon dioxide is then heated until its temperature goes beyond the critical point, at which time the pressure can be gradually released, allowing the gas to escape and leaving a dried product.\n"}
{"id": "2131432", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2131432", "title": "Irving Braxiatel", "text": "Irving Braxiatel\n\nIrving Braxiatel or Cardinal Braxiatel is a fictional character from the Virgin New Adventures—spin-off novels based on the BBC science fiction television series \"Doctor Who\". He subsequently became a regular character in novels and audio dramas in the \"Bernice Summerfield\" universe. In the Big Finish Productions audio dramas he is voiced by Miles Richardson. He is also stated to be the older brother of the Doctor.\n\nBraxiatel, a Time Lord, first appeared in the novel \"Theatre of War\" by Justin Richards, although the Fourth Doctor's companion Romana mentions the Braxiatel Collection in passing in the 1979 television serial \"City of Death\". In terms of the Doctor's timeline, their first portrayed meeting was in the Virgin Missing Adventures First Doctor novel \"The Empire of Glass\" by Andy Lane, although they already knew each other. Braxiatel met the Seventh Doctor in \"Theatre of War\" and was also at the wedding of Bernice \"Benny\" Summerfield and Jason Kane in \"Happy Endings\" by Paul Cornell.\n\nThe Braxiatel Collection — renowned for being one of the greatest art galleries in the galaxy — was founded by Irving Braxiatel and located on an asteroid which Braxiatel was rumoured to have won by playing cards. It had extensive archaeological libraries which could be used with Braxiatel's permission. Braxiatel's collection of books contained every book banned by the Catholic church; he most likely acquired these from the Library of St. John the Beheaded in England, which he founded (as mentioned at the end of \"The Empire of Glass\"). The Library of St. John was featured in the New Adventure \"All-Consuming Fire\" by Andy Lane and the Missing Adventure \"Millennial Rites\" by Craig Hinton.\n\nIn \"The Empire of Glass\", Braxiatel became involved with galactic politics. He organised the Armageddon Convention, which he tried to get the Doctor to chair, but by mistake his agents brought a physically similar man. The Convention was not particularly successful, although we know that it did outlaw the use of cyberbombs (\"Revenge of the Cybermen\"). Braxiatel decided to go back to collecting.\n\nAt some point, Braxiatel became the head of the Department of Theatrology at St. Oscar's University on Dellah. After Benny obtained a post at the archaeology department in 2593, the pair of them became entangled in many adventures. After the destruction of the planet Dellah, Braxiatel invited Benny to join him at the Braxiatel Collection.\n\nThe \"Bernice Summerfield\" novel \"Tears of the Oracle\" by Justin Richards suggests that Braxiatel is the Doctor's brother and the fact he had left Gallifrey and gone out into the universe was one of the factors that motivated the Doctor to leave. Certainly in the short story \"Be Forgot\" the Doctor leaves Braxiatel a Christmas present of a pair of socks, signed 'Thete', indicating that their relationship goes back to the days on Gallifrey when the Doctor was called Theta Sigma. In the audio play \"100\", the Sixth Doctor comments that \"Brax\" was always the sensible one. How this fits with novels such as \"Lungbarrow\", which establishes that the Time Lords are sterile and do not have conventional families, but are created by genetic looms, is unclear.\n\nBraxiatel also appears, as Cardinal Braxiatel, in the \"Doctor Who\" audio drama \"Zagreus\" and in the spin-off series \"Gallifrey\". In these stories, which are set prior to the Bernice Summerfield stories in Braxiatel's timeline, he is a member of the High Council of Time Lords and a confidante of President Romana.\n\nIn \"Gallifrey: The Inquiry\", it was revealed that the disastrous test of a timeonic fusion device which destroyed the planet Minyos prompted Braxiatel to begin collecting and preserving historical artifacts in case such widespread destruction ever happened. He also admitted that he had transgressed the Laws of Time by being in contact with his future regenerations.\n\nIn \"Gallifrey: Pandora\", Braxiatel became Chancellor, but mere hours later had to use his mind to contain the past and present forms of an ancient Gallifreyan evil known as Pandora. As Pandora would be able to escape if he ever connected to the Matrix or telepathically communicated with another Time Lord mind, Braxiatel exiled himself from Gallifrey.\n\nIn \"Gallifrey: Warfare\" Romana destroyed the future form of Pandora (as well as its intelligence), at the cost of also destroying the Matrix. When Romana was removed from office in \"\", Braxiatel returned briefly to Gallifrey and assumed the post of Lord President, since there was no longer anywhere for the Pandora entity to escape to.\n\nHowever, the ambitious Inquisitor Darkel goaded Braxiatel into losing control of Pandora, believing that it would destroy itself and Braxiatel's mind in the process. Braxiatel then revealed that only a remnant of the entity had ever been in his mind; the bulk of it had sought refuge in Darkel and Braxiatel had merely been the key that kept it restrained. So freed, Pandora consumed both Darkel and itself. Braxiatel returned to his exile, retaining the last fragments of Pandora within him.\n\nHowever, Braxiatel was not done: hearing rumors of an impending threat against Gallifrey and deciding that in its weakened state the planet was doomed, he hatched a scheme to preserve the Time Lord biodata archive, containing the genetic patterns of all Time Lords, past and present, in the hopes of reconstructing Gallifrey after its inevitable fall. By the end of \"Gallifrey: Panacea\", Gallifrey is on the brink of economic and social collapse as well as in danger of being overrun by a virus created by the terrorist organization Free Time. He had taken Romana, Leela, K9 II and the Time Lord's biodata bank out of time, in order to restore Gallifrey in the future. There, they find themselves unable to reenter normal space and time, but they can explore Gallifreys in alternate universes. In \"Gallifrey: Disassembled\", he gets into an altercation with an alternate version of the Doctor. He's thrown into the time lines, seemingly lost forever. But in fact, he returns home, where he immediately meets Bernice Summerfield for the first time. This story also continues the implication that he is related to the Doctor, and further implies that he encouraged the Doctor to leave Gallifrey in the first place because the Time Lords wanted to kill him.\n\nBig Finish's series of Bernice Summerfield books and audios have brought Bernice to the Braxiatel Collection, with Braxiatel himself becoming a key part of the regular cast. He is aloof and mysterious but is still considered one of Benny's closest friends.\n\nA conspiracy started to develop around Braxiatel, first occurring in the audio \"The Mirror Effect\". While all the characters were shown dark, twisted mirror images of themselves, Braxiatel was unaffected and when Jason Kane wondered if the real Braxiatel was the mirror version, Jason was brainwashed into being unable to be suspicious of Braxiatel. Further incidents showed the Time Lord to be secretly more dangerous and manipulative than he was letting on — in the book \"A Life in Pieces\", he was shown using a brainwashed Jason for his own ends as well as having murder done in his name and causing a civil war in the Domus system. The other characters remained unaware of any of this.\n\nBraxiatel was finally caught out when, following the Collection's occupation by the Fifth Axis and their Dalek masters, he decided to ensure the Collection would survive by finding an army to defend it. He turned to the colony of Cantus, which had been taken over long ago by the Cybermen, and had a member of the Collection, Ronan McGinley, turned into a Cyber-Controller subordinate to Braxiatel's will. Using a mysterious Gallifreyan crystal, Ronan was able to make all the Cybermen follow Braxiatel's orders. In the audio adventure, \"The Crystal of Cantus\" it was revealed that the crystal was slowly killing Ronan, so Braxiatel arranged for Jason to arrive on Cantus to become the new Controller. Thanks to Benny, this plan backfired and Jason remembered everything that Braxiatel had done to him. Braxiatel then left the Collection. Before he left, the last words Ronan McGinley spoke were, \"The thing in your head... it's still there...\", hinting that Pandora is still active.\n\nBraxiatel turned up again in \"The Tub Full of Cats\", in which he returned to the Collection to negotiate an agreement that would prevent war between the Draconians and the Mim. Later, in the audio \"The End of the World\" (not to be confused with the Doctor Who episode of the same name), Jason Kane confronted him for the things he had done to him, Benny, and their friends. It was during this confrontation, that partly due to Brax's own manipulations, but partly also by accident, Jason was killed. Benny soon learns of Brax's role in Jason's death, and in \"The Wake\" she flees from him.\n\nBraxiatel soon reveals that Benny plays a critical role in his plans, and lures her into a trap. She is freed from this trap in \"Resurrecting the Past\", which directly follows the animated short \"Dead and Buried\". This version of Braxiatel finally meets his maker in \"Escaping the Future\".\n\nFrom \"Judgement Day\" onwards, an alternative version of Braxiatel has appeared, claiming to be the version from the Gallifrey continuity. The exact nature of the relationship between these and other hinted at versions of Braxiatel is currently unknown.\n\nBraxiatel is voiced by actor Miles Richardson, whose interpretation of the role has influenced the changing nature of the character.\n"}
{"id": "2131435", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2131435", "title": "Johann Jakob Nöggerath", "text": "Johann Jakob Nöggerath\n\nJohann Jakob Nöggerath (also as Johann Jacob Noeggerath) (10 October 1788 – 13 September 1877), German mineralogist and geologist, was born at Bonn. \n\nIn 1814-1815 he became a commissioner of mines for some of the Rhine provinces, and in 1818 became an associate professor at the newly established University of Bonn. In 1821 he was named a full professor of mineralogy and mining sciences at Bonn, where he also served as director of the university's natural history museum. He obtained a very fine collection of minerals for the museum, was eminently successful as a teacher, and achieved a wide reputation among mining engineers. \n\nThe following are his more important publications: \n\nThe Carboniferous plant \"Noeggerathia\", allied to the genus \"Zamia\" and to cycads, is named after him, as is the lunar crater Nöggerath. He died at Bonn.\n"}
{"id": "2131442", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2131442", "title": "Hugh V, Count of Maine", "text": "Hugh V, Count of Maine\n\nHugh V was the Count of Maine from 1069 until 1072.\n\nHe was the son of Azzo d'Este and Gersendis (a sister of Count Hugh IV).<ref name=\"ESIII/4-692\"> Detlev Schwennicke, \"\", Neue Folge, Band III Teilband 4 (Verlag von J. A. Stargardt, Marburg, Germany, 1989), Tafel 692</ref> In 1070, the citizens of Le Mans and some of the Manceaux barons revolted against Norman control. After securing the southern border of Normandy and expelling the Normans, they invited young Hugh V to rule them as Count of Maine. They soon realized, however, he was incapable of ruling Maine and began to detest him. Orderic Vitalis said of him \"he was, indeed, an imbecile, a coward, and an idler, and totally unfit to hold the reins of government in so high a station.\" After a short time holding the countship, his cousin Elias convinced Hugh to sell him the county, which he did.\n\nIn 1077 Hugh married Gersent, mistress of Geoffroy de Mayenne She was a daughter of Robert Guiscard, but after discovering he could not manage her either he repudiated her, was promptly excommunicated by Pope Urban and died childless.\n"}
{"id": "2131447", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2131447", "title": "Confusopoly", "text": "Confusopoly\n\nConfusopoly (aka Dilbert's confusopoly) is confusing marketing designed to prevent the buyer making informed decisions. A portmanteau of confusion and monopoly or oligopoly, Dilbert's author Scott Adams defines confusopoly as \"\"a group of companies with similar products who intentionally confuse customers instead of competing on price\"\". For example, similar items like mobile phones are advertised at various price plans according to different combinations of available minutes, text messaging capabilities and other services, thus making these offers practically incomparable when it could be easy to price similar units of usage to allow informed comparisons. The term confusopoly also applies because confusion within the targeted consumer group is purposefully maintained, so choices are based on emotional factors.\n\nThe term has been adopted by economists. Consumer Financial Protection Bureau director Richard Cordray, championing meaningful regulation for the financial industry, used the term confusopoly to refer to large financial institutions (, 4'04\"-4'26\") :\nVideo game critic Jim Sterling criticized the video game industry's use of multiple limited and collector's editions as a confusopoly, citing games including \"Watch Dogs\" and \"Anthem\" as examples.\n\n"}
{"id": "2131448", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2131448", "title": "Drochtersen Shot Tower", "text": "Drochtersen Shot Tower\n\nThe Drochtersen Shot Tower is a shot tower at Drochtersen, Lower Saxony, Germany. The Drochtersen Shot Tower is property of the \"Jagd-Schrot & Hagel-Fabrik Häntler & Natermann\" but it is not in use any more.\n\n"}
{"id": "2131461", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2131461", "title": "Sindhooram", "text": "Sindhooram\n\nSindhooram () is a 1997 Telugu action thriller film, written and directed by Krishna Vamsi. The film features Brahmaji and Sanghavi in lead roles with Ravi Teja and Soundarya in supporting roles. The film dealt with the intricacies of Naxalism in Andhra Pradesh.\n\nThe movie begins with a cadre of police constables on their way home from election duty. As they discuss their lives, their van is blown up by a gang of Naxals.\n\nBulliraju (Brahmaji) is in training to become a police officer. He is hot blooded and has a strong sense of justice. Buliraju is from a small village close to the Godavari river.\n\nChanti (Ravi Teja), Bairagi, Satipandu and others are wayward youth who reside in the same village. They spend their time playing cards, drinking and teasing girls. They are all friends with Bulliraju. Few of them are also naxals and pass information of the ongoings of the village to Naxalites who live in the nearby forest. The Naxals use this information to fight injustice.\n\nBaby (Sanghavi) and Lakshmi (Soundarya) are girls in the same village. Baby is in love with Bulliraju and Lakshmi is in love with Chanti. Also in the village are various other characters such as landlords, policemen, doctors, farmers and day laborers.\n\nBulliraju returns in the middle of his police training to find that the local policemen act more like the henchmen of the rich rather than defenders of the people and justice. When Satipandu is suspected of being a closet Naxal and is picked up by the police, Bulliraju too is picked up too as he tries to defend his friend. The SI shoots and kills Satipandu and later in an altercation, Bulliraju accidentally shoots the SI. Buliraju is thus branded a Naxal and eventually becomes the leader of the group, despite having no interest in Communism/Maoism or Vigilantism. Bulliraju brings a different approach to naxalism, as he is more focused on delivering justice to the people than spread a communist/Maoist ideology. In a way he turns the Naxal gang into a vigilante gang. To the police however, they are all the same, as they have taken the law into their own hands.\n\nHe becomes a symbol of law and order in the 30 surrounding villages and is seen as a form of alternate government.\n\nBulliraju's training officer (Bhanu Chander) is designated the task of wiping Naxalism from the area. He sees Bulliraju as an outlaw who joined police training to learn their secrets. He vows to bring Bulliraju to justice.\n\nOne day, Bairagi is betrayed by an illegal arms dealer and is captured. Bulliraju kidnaps the local minister (chalapati) in an effort to get Bairagi back. Bulliraju's gang is already decimated by various forces such as poisoned water, police encounters, weather and the elements of the forest. They fight on despite the fact that they are running out of ammunition. The police is on their trail for the kidnapping of the minister. Eventually the police catch up to them and most of them die with heavy casualties on both sides.\n\nThe overall message of the movie is that when people have nothing to lose, they will not shy away from taking the law into their own hands. When the common man is denied justice from official channels, he will seek justice from whoever will give it to him. Justice is as important to the sustenance of a society as food and water. When justice becomes a luxury, society turns to chaos and death becomes a way of life. When a government doesn't provide the kind of justice that society needs, society will try to snatch it like a drowning man will grasp for air.\n\nThe soundtrack of this film is composed by Srinivasa Chakravarthy & all the lyrics were written by Sirivennela Seetharama Sastry and Chandrabose. The soundtrack received positive reviews.       \n"}
{"id": "2131462", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2131462", "title": "World Clique", "text": "World Clique\n\nWorld Clique is the debut album by American dance music band Deee-Lite, which was released in 1990. The album's first single, \"Groove Is in the Heart\", was a top-five success on both the U.S. \"Billboard\" Hot 100 and UK Singles Chart as well as a No. 1 hit on the U.S. Hot Dance Club Play chart. Three subsequent singles also hit the top ten on the U.S. dance chart, including \"Power of Love/Build That Bridge\" and \"Good Beat\", which also hit No. 1.\n\nGuest artists on the album include Bootsy Collins, Q-Tip , Fred Wesley and Maceo Parker. When \"World Clique\" was released on compact disc, two bonus tracks were added to the album: \"Deee-Lite Theme\" and \"Build the Bridge.\"\n\nRobert Hilburn of the \"Los Angeles Times\" called \"World Clique\" \"seductive and smart\", while \"Billboard\" called it an \"innovative, media-saturated debut\".\n\nIn 2003, \"Slant Magazine\" included \"World Clique\" in its list, Vital Pop: 50 Essential Pop Albums. Charles Pitter for Zouch notes that album track and single \"Groove Is in the Heart\" is a \"dance classic\".\nThe album's initial success occurred in the UK, where it peaked at No. 14 on the UK Albums Chart in September 1990. Simultaneously, the album entered the \"Billboard\" 200 at No. 180 for the week of September 15 in the US. Fueled by the success of \"Groove Is in the Heart\", \"World Clique\" continued to climb the chart for several weeks, peaking at No. 20 for the week of November 24.\n\nThe success of subsequent singles \"Power of Love,\" \"Good Beat,\" and \"E.S.P.\" helped the album to sustain steady sales throughout the following months, with the album achieving RIAA Gold certification in December 1990 and remaining on the \"Billboard\" 200 for a total of 41 weeks before falling off the chart in June 1991, following its final chart position at No. 199.\n\"World Clique\" is Deee-Lite's most successful album, outlasting \"Infinity Within\" (1992) and \"Dewdrops in the Garden\" (1994) on the \"Billboard\" 200 chart and outperforming its successors in terms of highest peak position and mainstream exposure and sales.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2131463", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2131463", "title": "W. &amp; A. Fletcher Company", "text": "W. &amp; A. Fletcher Company\n\nW. & A. Fletcher Co. was an American manufacturer of marine boilers and steam engines for steamboats on the Hudson, in the Great Lakes, Long Island Sound, and elsewhere in the late 19th and early 20th centuries. The company was founded in 1853 and associated with development of steam powered ships from the original crude efforts.\n\nOriginally Fletcher, Harrison & Co., the company was located on Hudson Street in Hoboken, New Jersey. They built engines for many famous Hudson River Day Line steamers and others, in both vertical walking beam and inclined compound types. In some cases the company held the contract for a vessel's construction and sublet the hull and joiner work to other companies as in the case of the large steamer \"Berkshire\" for the Hudson Navigation Company in which the hull was sublet to New York Shipbuilding Company of Camden, New Jersey and joiner work to Charles M. Englis. As in the case with the company held the engine contract and, as with the J. P. Morgan yacht \"Corsair III\" did the installation after the launch of the hull.\n\nSome of the ships they fabricated engines for included the \"General Slocum\", the \"Hendrick Hudson\", the \"Adirondack\" and the \"Shady Side\". They also built the engine for the first turbine-propelled commercial ship built in the United States, in 1906. The Fletcher Yard constructed the turbines under license from Parsons of England.\n\nBy 1921 the company had been associated with over 320 vessels ranging from tugs to ocean going ships and had operations to a repair yard with a floating dry dock. Competing with other yards W. & A. Fletcher won the bids for 21 of 56 vessels that were converted to Army transports.\n\nW. & A. Fletcher Co. was merged with five other New York-based shipbuilding/ship repair companies to form United Dry Docks, Inc. in February 1929.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2131464", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2131464", "title": "Sanaa Hamri", "text": "Sanaa Hamri\n\nSanaa Hamri (; born November 19, 1977) is a Moroccan-American film, television, and music video director. Hamri has directed music videos for musicians including Prince, Mariah Carey, Christina Aguilera, and Sting. She is known for her 2010 film \"Just Wright\" and the 2008 movie \"The Sisterhood of the Traveling Pants 2\", as well as for her music video for the Nicki Minaj song \"Super Bass.\" She made her directorial debut in 2006 with the Focus Features romantic comedy \"Something New\". She has since directed the sequel to \"Sisterhood of the Traveling Pants\".\n\nScholar Shelley Cobb has credited Hamri's work as \"[offering] alternative representations of black women that productively engage with and even challenge usual stereotypes, even as they use and conform to mainstream cinematic conventions\".\n\nHamri was born in Tangier, Morocco, to Moroccan Muslim Mohammed Hamri and Jewish American Blanche \"Blanca\" Hamri. Her father came from the town of Jajouka and was employed as a painter and author. Hamri's mother was a teacher. Both of Hamri's parents were part of the creative community in Morocco, which was made up of ex-pats such as Paul Bowles, William Burroughs, Brion Gysin, Timothy Leary, Ted Morgan and Tennessee Williams. In fact, Hamri's mother was the long-time secretary to Joseph A. McPhillips III, the headmaster of the American School of Tangier, who was later in charge of Bowles' estate.\n\nHamri attended the American School of Tangier, where her mother worked. The school was not gender balanced: at one point, Hamri was the only girl on the soccer team and eventually, the sole female student enrolled at her high school. In 1992, Hamri moved to the United States after receiving a scholarship to attend Sarah Lawrence College in Bronxville, New York. In college, she studied theatre arts and pursued acting. Hamri spent her junior year of college in Paris, and in 1996 graduated from Sarah Lawrence College.\n\nAfter college, Hamri moved to New York City in order to pursue an acting career. Hamri struggled through auditions and unemployment before she decided to try working in the production side of the business. She taught herself filmmaking skills firsthand, such as how to use an avid editing machine. Hamri then moved from seeking an acting career to making videos and was eventually noticed by cinematographer, Malik Hassan Sayeed. During this time she worked as an editor of music videos at a post-production studio.\n\nSayeed, who also produced videos, was impressed by Hamri's work and showed it to Mariah Carey, who subsequently hired Hamri to direct a music video. Sayeed also gave Hamri her first editing job for a reggae/hip-hop fusion group called Born Jamericans. Hamri then began to take on more work as she became better known.\n\nHamri's videos include but are not limited to Jadakiss's \"U Make Me Wanna\", Prince's \"Musicology\", Kelly Rowland's \"Stole\" and Mariah Carey's \"Crybaby\", Bringing On The Heartbreak, \"Don't Stop (Funkin' 4 Jamaica)\", and Mariah Carey's unreleased video for \"Last Night a DJ Saved My Life\". She has directed videos for Nicki Minaj, Lenny Kravitz, Joss Stone, Sting, Common, Raven-Symoné, Eric Benet, Amel Larrieux, Jay-Z, A*Teens, and Christina Aguilera. She also directed the music video for Greyson Chance's \"Waiting Outside The Lines\".\n\nIn 2011 Hamri shot a music video for Nicki Minaj's single \"Super Bass.\" In the video Minaj is portrayed as a \"Black Harajuku Barbie\", an element which, according to Nina Cartier, states satirizes white beauty standards.\n\nAccording to Shelley Cobb, Hamri's films are often overlooked in \"both contemporary black cinema and contemporary women's cinema\" because they sometimes fall in the \"broad chick-flick category\". She further opines that Hamri's films challenge the \"structural silence imposed on black women.\n\nIn March 2005, production began on Hamri's first feature, the Focus Features film, \"Something New,\" a romantic comedy starring Sanaa Lathan (\"Brown Sugar\", \"Alien vs. Predator\") and Simon Baker (\"The Ring Two\", \"L.A. Confidential\"). The film was released on January 29, 2006 and produced by Stephanie Allain through her company, Homegrown Pictures, along with the mini-major Gramercy. The film grossed $11,483,669 million and received generally positive reviews. Cobb described the movie as a \"feature film about a black woman, written, directed, and produced by a black woman\" which she considered \"rare\". Hamri's second film as director was 2008's \"The Sisterhood of the Traveling Pants 2\", with America Ferrera, Amber Tamblyn, Alexis Bledel and Blake Lively, which was released on August 6, 2008. The film grossed $44,352,417 and received generally favorable reviews. She went on to direct \"Just Wright\" with Queen Latifah and Common, which was released on May 14, 2010. The film grossed $21,570,263 million and received mixed reviews.\n\nAlong with directing feature film and music videos, Hamri also directs television. Hamri has directed multiple episodes of \"Nashville\", \"Shameless\", \"Elementary\", \"Desperate Housewives\", \"Greys Anatomy,\" and \"Men in Trees\". Mariah Carey's live concert documentary, \"The Adventures of Mimi\", and Prince's \"The Art of Musicology\" and \"Prince Live at the Aladdin Las Vegas\" were directed by Hamri.\n\nSanaa has also directed and produced episodes of \"Empire, Nashville, Elementary\" and \"Shameless.\"\n\nHamri is multi-lingual as she spoke English, French, Spanish, and a Moroccan dialect growing up. In 2000, Hamri had a daughter, Laila Hamri Fletcher, whose father is Loyst P. Fletcher, a Los Angeles attorney.\n\nOn being a non-white woman working in Hollywood, Hamri states: \"I don't feel this huge weight on me by any means,\" continuing that she is \"not an international person\" and she wants to be a part of movies \"that people from all walks of life can enjoy, or get something out of.\"\n\n\n\"As director unless noted\"\n"}
{"id": "2131470", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2131470", "title": "Gerhard Noodt", "text": "Gerhard Noodt\n\nGerhard Noodt (September 4, 1647 – August 15, 1725) was a Dutch jurist, born in Nijmegen. Educated at Leiden, Utrecht and Franeker, he became a professor of law at Nijmegen and Franeker. As a writer on jurisprudence he acquired a wide reputation. His Latin style was modelled after the best writers, and his numerous works soon rose to the rank of standard authorities. Two of his political treatises were translated into French by Jean Barbeyrac, and appeared at Amsterdam in 1707 and 1714, under the respective titles of \"Pouvoir des souverains\" and \"Liberté de conscience\".\n\nThe first edition of his collected works was published at Leiden in 1724 and the last in 1767. That of 1735 and those subsequent contain a life of the author by Barbeyrac.\n\n"}
{"id": "2131486", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2131486", "title": "Until My Heart Caves In", "text": "Until My Heart Caves In\n\nUntil My Heart Caves In is the eighth studio album by Audio Adrenaline and the final album with Mark Stuart as the lead vocalist. The album was released on Tuesday, August 30, 2005 on ForeFront Records and went on to win the Grammy Award for Rock Gospel Album of the Year.\n\nFrontman Mark Stuart commented on the meaning of the album:\n\"\"Until My Heart Caves In\" is about living for God until your body collapses. It's about never giving up, even when you feel like it. So many people aren't living with a fire in their hearts on a day-to-day basis... We should be living like warriors and get out there worried less about the nice clothes and plastic personas and more about getting on the edge, living with authentic and real passion.\"\nAfter guitarist Tyler Burkum took lead vocals on several songs on \"Worldwide\", this album features Burkum singing lead on more than half of the album. Five months after the album was released, Mark Stuart announced the band would be disbanding, due to the stress of touring on Mark Stuart's vocal cords.\n\nThe album was well received by critics. Jared Johnson of AllMusic rated the album four stars out of five, writing that \"it would be tough to argue that this final output allowed them to go out on top.\" At Jesus Freak Hideout, John DiBiase rated the album four stars out of five, writing that the album is \"a solid melodic rock record from start to finish (although sadly on the shorter side)\". DiBiase commented that despite how he missed Stuart's trademark vocals, praised Burkum's writing that \"[his] smooth, youthful vocals have never sounded better, giving the album a unique pop/rock vibe different from any of the band's previous releases\". Tony Cummings of Cross Rhythms rated the album a perfect ten, writing that \"All in all, pop rock of the finest quality.\" At \"CCM Magazine\", Chris Well graded the album a B, writing that the release \"is a likable collection of simple, fistpumping anthems that should connect particularly with youth groups.\" Russ Breimeier of \"Christianity Today\" rated the album three-and-a-half out of five stars, writing that \"There's much to appreciate musically on Audio Adrenaline's latest, but lyrically it falls short.\" At Christian Broadcasting Network, Chris Carpenter rated the album three spins out of five, writing that \"It just lacks the lyrical creativity that fueled previous Audio A standards.\" Lindsay Whitfield of Soul Shine rated the album three-and-a-half stars out of five, writing that the listener is \"in for an action packed good time.\" At \"The Phantom Tollbooth\", Burton Wray rated the album four tocks of five, writing that \"Top to bottom this is the best release from Audio Adrenaline in years\", which \"This solid release is easily one of the best of the year top to bottom, one of those rare releases where you won't find yourself hitting the skip button.\"\n\nAs of 2007, Christian pop-punk band Hawk Nelson has begun to perform \"Clap Your Hands\" at live shows. Hawk Nelson toured with Audio Adrenaline in early 2005, when the song was first performed. Audio Adrenaline opened with that song from 2005 until their retirement, and now Hawk Nelson opens with the song.\n\nThe album won the Grammy award for Rock Gospel Album of the Year. It was the second consecutive album to win the award, after \"Worldwide\" in 2003. It also spawned the Until My Heart Caves In Tour with Pillar and Sanctus Real.\n\nThe album peaked at No. 122 on \"Billboard\" 200 and No. 5 on \"Billboard\"'s Christian Albums. The song \"King\" also peaked at No. 19 on Billboard's Christian Songs.\n\n"}
{"id": "2131498", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2131498", "title": "Personal Emergency Link", "text": "Personal Emergency Link\n\nThe Personal Emergency Link (PE Link) was established by Senior Citizen Home Safe Association to launch a 24-hour personal emergency link to help the needy in Hong Kong.\n\nDuring an unexpected cold spell in 1996, more than a hundred unattended elderly who lived alone died. In response, the Association were dedicated to render emergency relief and total care service to all elderly and chronic invalids by setting up the PE Link.\n"}
{"id": "2131521", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2131521", "title": "Sean Power", "text": "Sean Power\n\nSean Power or Seán Power may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2131565", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2131565", "title": "Presidential State Car (Ireland)", "text": "Presidential State Car (Ireland)\n\nThe Presidential State Car is the official state car of the President of Ireland. It is a 1947 Rolls-Royce Silver Wraith landaulette.\n\nDouglas Hyde, the first president of Ireland was provided with a state car, but his near fatal stroke early into his term of office meant that he rarely travelled in public. When he retired in 1945 the Irish state decided that, his successor, Seán T. O'Kelly, needed a special state vehicle for formal occasions. However what type of vehicle it should be caused an immediate row between the President-elect Seán T. O'Kelly and the Taoiseach, Éamon de Valera. O'Kelly wanted to have a state horse-drawn carriage whereas de Valera wished to have a car.\n\nInitially O'Kelly got his wish and he was transported to the 1945 Irish presidential inauguration in the landau of the late Queen Alexandra the Queen Mother, which had been hired specially from a Dublin livery company. The landau was accompanied by the Irish presidential Mounted Escort, the Blue Hussars.\n\nContrary to expectations, the use of the landau proved a major success. In response, the new Irish state travel company, Córas Iompair Éireann (CIÉ) offered to build a special presidential carriage for use on state occasions. However in his enthusiasm for the project and contrary to warnings that the horses had not yet been fully trained to deal with crowds, the President insisted that the new carriage, drawn by horses, be used to bring him to the historic Dublin Horse Show at the Royal Dublin Society in August 1946. The crowds stood up and cheered as the President and Mrs O'Kelly entered the showgrounds in the carriage. The horses took fright, reared up and the coach jackknifed. De Valera seized the moment and abolished the use of the presidential carriage (except for going to the RDS). Instead he ordered that the Irish state buy a new Rolls-Royce. The Blue Hussars were abolished the following year.\n\nThe car has a flagpole mounted on each of the front mudguards. Ordinarily these flew the Flag of Ireland and the Presidential Standard; when a foreign dignitary was travelling with the President then the relevant foreign flag would replace the Presidential Standard. In 1950 the car was put at the disposal of the visiting Catholic Archbishop of Sydney, Cardinal Norman Thomas Gilroy, and flew the Flag of Vatican City from both poles.\n\nThe car was always maintained by the Department of Defence and driven by a Military driver, until President Erskine H. Childers took office, then it was passed over to the Garda Síochána where it had been maintained since and driven by a Garda.\n\nThough the matter came up before the Public Accounts Committee in November 1975, the car was allowed to rot away in storage in an army garage. By May 1976 it was reported by the Army Barrack Master that it would cost £3,000 to restore it.\n\nIn August 1976, however, an enthusiast active in the veteran and vintage car world in Ireland wrote to the Taoiseach offering to buy the car from the Government. He wished to prevent it going overseas as so many of the interesting early cars in the country did. The matter was shelved. The car had in any case now passed from the Army to the Garda, but then it was decided to just sell it off with the next lot of redundant garda squad cars.\n\nThe proposal to auction off Éamon de Valera's presidential car in 1976 resulted in the Attorney General being asked for his opinion on whether the historic car was covered by the National Monuments Act of 1930.\n\nA Department of Justice memo said a technical report indicated the Rolls Royce (registration ZJ 5000) was not suitable to be used as a State car as it was in need of \"a general overhaul\" and it was decided to dispose of it. \"The question has arisen whether the car could be regarded as coming within the definition of \"archaeological object\", the memo says. If so that would mean the car could not be exported without a special licence from the minister for education.\n\nIt says the car was originally purchased for ceremonial occasions, but in practice was mainly used by the President. After de Valera moved to the Áras an Uachtaráin in 1959, it was used wholly by him. \"As he became increasingly feeble, it was found that the high dimensions of the Rolls facilitated his movement in and out of the car.\"\n\nWhen he retired in 1973 he was allowed to continue to use the car until his death in 1975. After he died it was returned to the Government establishment. But by this date ministers preferred to use American or German cars. No-one wanted to use the Rolls.\n\nThe Attorney General said it had to be decided was de Valera \"an historical person\" and whether the value of the Rolls Royce would be inflated because of his association with it. He said it could not be doubted that de Valera \"played a significant role in the life of the country\" but it was a matter of opinion whether his presidential years represented the most significant period of his career. Eventually it was decided that he was. But nevertheless the lawyers saw no difficulty about selling off the car.\n\nBut at the end of the year the matter crept into the papers. Questions were asked: \"Where is ZJ 5000?\"\n\nThe Minister for Justice, Gerry Collins, took up the matter. The decision was reversed at a cabinet meeting on 6 September 1977. The car was saved. The mechanics went to work on it and it was restored from its shabby condition for mere £400-£500.\n\nIn due course in the spring of 1978 the car, splendidly restored, with Minister Gerry Collins on hand, was unveiled to the public in its more mature role as an archaeological relic.\n\nThe by-now quite bulky file on the matter closes in September 1978 with observation that the car \"\"is now in running order and will be available for use by the President for ceremonial State occasions\".\"\n\nThough used by Seán T. O'Kelly from 1947 the car is most strongly associated with his successor, Éamon de Valera, who served two full terms, holding office from 1959 to 1973. De Valera came to embody the presidency, with its symbols in turn associated personally with him, it earned the nickname \"Dev's Car\" because of his high profile use of it. Part of that was a product of the appearance of Telifís Éireann, Ireland's national broadcasting station, during his first term, allowing a greater public profile for whomever was president.\n\nThe historic 1947 Rolls-Royce has continued to be used in some state ceremonies, such as the National Day of Commemoration and most notably at the Irish presidential inauguration, where the car is used to transport the President (or president-elect) to and from the ceremony in Dublin Castle. It was used most recently at the 2004 inauguration of the eighth president of Ireland, Mary McAleese.\nHowever, at the inauguration of Michael D. Higgins in November 2011, the Rolls Royce was not used, but the official Mercedes-Benz S-Class was used instead.\n\nFor day to day transport, the President uses a Mercedes-Benz S-Class.\n\n"}
{"id": "2131569", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2131569", "title": "Tomb of Askia", "text": "Tomb of Askia\n\nThe Tomb of Askia, in Gao, Mali, is believed to be the burial place of Askia Mohammad I, one of the Songhai Empire's most prolific emperors. It was built at the end of the fifteenth century and is designated as a UNESCO World Heritage Site.\n\nUNESCO describes the tomb as a fine example of the monumental mud-building traditions of the West African Sahel. The complex includes the pyramidal tomb, two mosques, a cemetery and an assembly ground. At 17 metres in height it is the largest pre-colonial architectural monument in the region. It is the first example of an Islamic architectural style that later spread throughout the region.\n\nRelatively recent modifications to the site have included the expansion of the mosque buildings in the 1960s and mid-1970s, and the 1999 construction of a wall around the site. It has also been regularly replastered throughout its history, a process essential to the maintenance and repair of mud structures. Electricity was added in the early 2000s, allowing for ceiling fans, lights and a loudspeaker mounted on top.\n\nAskia is in regular use as a mosque and a publicly owned cultural centre for the city of Gao. The site and a buffer area around it are protected by both national and local laws.\n\nAskia Mohammed was the first Askia emperor and greatly expanded the Songhai Empire. As a reverent Muslim, he felt obligated to make his pilgrimage to Mecca, which he returned from in 1495. He brought back with him the materials to make his tomb; all of the mud and wood came from Mecca. The caravan is said to have consisted of \"thousands of camels.\" It was structured as a house, with several rooms and passageways and was sealed when Askia Mohammed died.\n\nAskia Mohammed is the only one buried inside the tomb itself, but several other Askias are buried in the courtyard.\n\n"}
{"id": "2131587", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2131587", "title": "George William Childs", "text": "George William Childs\n\nGeorge William Childs (1829–1894) was an American publisher who co-owned the Philadelphia \"Public Ledger\" newspaper with financier Anthony Joseph Drexel.\n\nChilds was born in Baltimore, Maryland, on May 12, 1829, the illegitimate son of unidentified parents. He was raised by a likewise unidentified aunt in comfortable circumstances, a fact he later concealed to make his rise from obscurity seem more remarkable. He began work at age 12 in a bookstore for $2 per week while attending public school. He entered the Navy, at age 13 and served 15 months at Norfolk. After leaving the Navy in 1843, he moved to Philadelphia, becoming a clerk in a bookshop at age 14. Childs found favor with his employer, proving himself to be trustworthy in business. After shutting the shop for the evening, he was entrusted with buying books at auction for the store. By the time he was 16, he was going to New York and Boston to attend publishing trade shows.\n\nWhen Childs turned 18, he took his savings, which amounted to several hundred dollars, and leasing space in the offices of the Philadelphia \"Public Ledger\", started his own firm. While working on building his business, Childs was noted for frequently commenting on his desire to own the \"Ledger\" some day.\n\nAt age 21, Childs was offered a partnership in the publishing firm of R. E. Peterson & Co (established by Robert Evans Peterson) which he accepted, and the name of the firm was changed to Childs & Peterson. Childs & Peterson grew prosperous by publishing useful if unexciting titles that reached a broad market. Peterson excelled in scientific knowledge, while Childs provided business acumen. The two partners grew the title \"Familiar Science\" into a 200,000-issue sale by interesting schools in using it as a textbook. A marketing genius, Childs was the first book publisher to use the now ubiquitous \"blurb\" endorsements by other famous persons, and he conceived the notion of the author's book tour.\n\nChilds was known throughout his life for generosity and philanthropy. He was quoted to say, \"\"Meanness is not necessary to success in business, but economy is.\"\" This approach won him a wide circle of friends whose affection and friendship ran deep.\n\nChilds was married to Emma B. Peterson, the granddaughter of Judge John Bouvier, a jurist born in Codognan, France. Her father was Robert Evans Peterson, a lawyer, and scientist; her mother was Hannah Mary Bouvier, author of \"Familiar Astronomy\" and collaborator with her husband on other works. They left no children.\n\nOn 5 December 1864, with Anthony J. Drexel, he purchased the \"Philadelphia Public Ledger\", at that time a money-losing newspaper, losing about $150,000 per year. The business was squeezed by rising paper and printing costs due to wartime shortages as the country engaged in the Civil War. The paper had lost circulation by supporting the Copperhead Policy of opposing the American Civil War and advocating an immediate peace settlement with the Confederate States. Most readers in Philadelphia at the time supported the Union. Publishers were reluctant to increase the one-cent subscription cost to cover the actual costs of production in the face of declining circulation. Childs bought the paper for a reported $20,000.\n\nUpon buying the paper Childs completely changed its policy and methods. He changed the editorial policy to the Loyalist (Union) line, raised advertising rates, and he doubled the cover price to two cents. After an initial drop, circulation rebounded and the paper resumed profitability. Childs was intimately involved in all operations of the paper, from the press room to the composing room, and he intentionally upgraded the quality of advertisements appearing in the publication to suit a higher end readership. For four years he rarely left the paper before midnight.\n\nChilds' efforts bore fruit and the Ledger became one of the most influential journals in the country. Circulation growth led the firm to outgrow its facilities, and in 1866 Childs bought property at Sixth and Chestnut Streets in Philadelphia and constructed the \"Public Ledger\" Building, which was called at the time \"...the finest newspaper office in the country.\" It was estimated that toward the end of Childs' association the Ledger was generating profits of approximately $500,000 per year.\n\nClose friends with Anthony Drexel for more than 40 years, Childs served as the second President of the Board of Trustees of Drexel University, succeeding the founder. In 1872, he was elected a member of the American Antiquarian Society. The Antiquarian Society holds a substantial file of original issues of the \"Public Ledger\" encompassing over 11,000 issues between 1836 and 1876.\n\nIn 1880 Childs and Drexel purchased west of Philadelphia along the tracks of the Pennsylvania Railroad, an area which was to become known as the Pennsylvania Main Line, from banker J.H. Askin. The two laid out roads, public utilities, community amenities, churches, and building lots to create \"Wayne Estate\", later the unincorporated community of Wayne, Pennsylvania, an early example of a planned community.\n\nThe suburban village known as Wayne, on the Pennsylvania Railroad, fourteen miles from Philadelphia, differs so much from the ordinary town allowed to grow up hap-hazard and to develop conveniences as population increases, that it is necessary, in describing it as it appears, to keep in mind some facts about its history.\n\nWayne is not an accidental aggregation of cottages; it is a town built by design, and provided at the start with all the conveniences to which residents of cities are accustomed and which they are so apt to miss and long for when they go into the country or even into the suburbs of a great city. The scheme of the town was well thought out and planned before any of the new cottages were built, and, as it was undertaken by liberal gentlemen of abundant means, no expense was spared in the preliminary municipal work.\n\nChilds built his own summer home, Wooton, outside of nearby Bryn Mawr. A 2013 article on Childs described the estate:\n\nSituated on almost 170 acres on Bryn Mawr Avenue in Radnor Township, the Wootton estate included a 50-room Tudor mansion, a clock tower, stables, pool, tennis courts, log cabins and several more buildings. The mansion was built in 1881 by architect John McArthur, who also designed Philadelphia’s City Hall.\n\nAfter Childs died childless, his godson George W. Childs Drexel owned Wooton. In 1950, the estate was acquired for use as St. Aloysius Academy, a private school for boys. The mansion at Wooton continues in use, as do several outbuildings from the original estate. \nChilds was also a very close friend of President Ulysses S. Grant, and they owned adjacent summer homes in Long Branch, New Jersey. When the dying Grant was struggling to complete his war memoirs to support his family after his death, he asked Childs to decide which firm should publish the work. Childs chose Charles L. Webster & Co., in which Mark Twain was a principal. In 1887 a movement arose to draft Childs himself for the presidency, but on January 25, 1888, he announced in the New York Times, \"I am not a candidate and neither would I accept the (Republican) nomination for President.\"\n\nChilds was widely known for his public spirit and philanthropy. In 1884, for example, he loaned $500 to poet Walt Whitman to help him purchase his home in Camden, New Jersey. In addition to numerous private benefactions in educational and charitable fields, he erected memorial windows to William Cowper and George Herbert in Westminster Abbey (1877), and to John Milton in St. Margaret's, Westminster (1888), a monument to Leigh Hunt at Kensal Green, a William Shakespeare memorial fountain at Stratford-on-Avon (1887), and a monument to Richard A. Proctor. In 1875, he gave the final donation to complete the Edgar Allan Poe monument in Baltimore. He gave Woodland Cemetery to the Typographical Society of Philadelphia for a printer's burial ground, and with Anthony J. Drexel founded in 1892 a home for Union printers at Colorado Springs, Colorado. He paid for the erection of Prayerbook Cross in San Francisco's Golden Gate Park.\n\nChilds died at Philadelphia on the 3rd of February 1894. His wife died at the Bellevue-Stratford Hotel in Philadelphia on 13 August 1928 at age 88. His \"Recollections\" were published at Philadelphia in 1890 and an elementary school in Philadelphia is named after him, as is the George W. Childs Recreation Site, in Pike County, Pennsylvania and Childs, Maryland. George and Emma are interred in the Childs Mausoleum on \"Millionaires' Row\" in Laurel Hill Cemetery, Philadelphia.\n\nUpon his death his employees at the \"Public Ledger\" adopted the following resolution:\n\n\"The employees of the \"Public Ledger\", having lost by the death of George W. Childs one who has stood to them in the relation of a kind and considerate father, find it impossible to express in formal resolutions the due sense of their great loss, but nevertheless seek to record in this minute their high appreciation of his character as it has been revealed to them in daily intercourse. He was the embodiment of kindness and benevolence; his broad sympathies made him a citizen of the world, and not merely those associated with him socially and in business, but humanity itself, lost a generous friend and noble exemplar by his death.\n\n"}
{"id": "2131611", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2131611", "title": "J. Willard Marriott", "text": "J. Willard Marriott\n\nJohn Willard Marriott, Sr. (September 17, 1900 – August 13, 1985) was an American entrepreneur and businessman. He was the founder of the Marriott Corporation (which became Marriott International in 1993), the parent company of the world's largest hospitality, hotel chains, and food services companies. The Marriott company rose from a small root beer stand in Washington, D.C. in 1927 to a chain of family restaurants by 1932, to its first motel in 1957. By the time he died, the Marriott company operated 1,400 restaurants and 143 hotels and resorts worldwide, including two theme parks, earned US$4.5 billion in revenue annually with 154,600 employees. The company's interests also extended to a line of cruise ships.\n\nMarriott was born at Marriott Settlement (present day Marriott-Slaterville, Utah), the second of eight children of Hyrum Willard Marriott and Ellen Morris Marriott. As a child, \"Bill\", as J. Willard was called, helped to raise sugar beets and sheep on his family's farm. At age 13, Marriott raised lettuce on several fallow acres on the farm and the harvest at summer's end brought $2,000, which Marriott gave to his father. The next year, Hyrum entrusted Marriott, his eldest son, with the sale of a herd of 3,000 sheep, sending him and the sheep unescorted by rail to San Francisco.\n\nAt the age of 19 and as a participating member of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church), he undertook a mission for two years, being assigned to New England. After completing his mission, he passed through Washington, D.C. on his way home during the sweltering summer months of 1921. While there:\n\nMarriott graduated from Weber College (now Weber State University), where he served as student body president, with an associate degree in June 1923 and from the University of Utah, where he affiliated with Phi Delta Theta, with a bachelor's degree in June 1926. After Marriott earned his bachelor's degree, the president of Weber, Aaron Tracy, who had assisted Marriott to enroll there by helping him make up secondary education credits missed due to the Marriott family's ranching efforts, employed him at the school in Ogden. Marriott soon felt the urge, however, to be his own boss. He heard about a cousin's A&W Root Beer franchise and, remembering his experience seeing so many people suffer through the brutal summer heat of Washington, D.C., he decided to look into a venture there.\n\nIn 1927, he secured from A&W Root Beer the franchise rights for Washington, D.C.; Baltimore, Maryland; and Richmond, Virginia; he then moved to Washington to open a nine-stool root beer stand there with his business partner, Hugh Colton. They opened on May 20, 1927 at 3128 14th Street, NW. He returned to Utah two weeks later, and married Alice Sheets on 9 June 1927. With the approach of cooler Autumn months, and with the addition of Mexican food items to the menu, the stand became The Hot Shoppe, a popular family restaurant. In 1928, he opened the first drive-in east of the Mississippi, and the business was incorporated as Hot Shoppes, Inc. in Delaware in 1929. During the Second World War, the business expanded to include the management of food services in defense plants and government buildings, such as the U.S. Treasury.\n\nMarriott's restaurant chain grew, and the company went public in 1953. In 1957, he expanded his business to hotels, opening the first Marriott hotel—actually a motel, the Twin Bridges Motor Hotel in Arlington, Virginia. The company became Marriott, Inc. in 1967. Two large chains were added to the group, the Big Boy family restaurants in 1967 and Roy Rogers Family Restaurants in 1968.\n\nOver the years, Marriott's company interests expanded. Continuing with food services, Marriott eventually invented airline in-flight food service. This segment of their enterprise continues to be a large part of their business, providing food services to many major airlines. Marriott also provides food services to many colleges, elementary schools and other venues.\n\nMarriott was an energetic worker and rarely rested, preferring to run his company. Many attested to the fact that he ate, lived, breathed and dreamed about how to run and improve his company: \n\nEven after the company grew to include hundreds of restaurants and hotels, Marriott vowed to personally inspect every establishment at least four times a year.\n\nMarriott tempered his rigid demands for perfection with devotion to his employees. According to his son, Bill Jr.,:\n\nAccording to Marriott himself (from a videotaped segment):\n\nMarriott's wife, Alice Sheets, was actively involved in the business, starting as the bookkeeper at the root-beer stand. Despite the demands of the company, she felt her role as a mother to her two sons was her most important calling and balanced the demands of both of her endeavors.\n\nMarriott and his wife had two sons. Their son Bill Marriott is currently Executive Chairman and Chairman of the Board of Marriott International. The other son is Richard Marriott, Chairman of the board for Host Hotels & Resorts, formerly Host Marriott Corporation.\n\nMarriott's legacy continues today through the continuance of the company he founded and through his community involvement and philanthropy. Marriott was a faithful member of the LDS Church and sought to share the church's teachings with others by placing a copy of the Book of Mormon in each hotel room, alongside a copy of a Gideon Bible—a tradition that has endured. He also donated funds to the church's flagship tertiary educational institution, Brigham Young University (BYU), resulting in the naming of BYU's 19,000-seat multi-purpose arena (Marriott Center) in his honor. While serving as home to the BYU Cougars men's and women's college basketball teams, the center also hosts various cultural events and religious devotionals. BYU's business school, the Marriott School of Business, is named in honor of Marriott. On the campuses of Marriott's alma maters stands the J. Willard Marriott Library at the University of Utah and the Marriott Allied Health Building at Weber State University which houses the Dumke College of Heath Professions.\n\nMarriott maintained extensive business connections within his LDS Church heritage and membership. A prominent associate was Michigan Governor George W. Romney, father of U.S. Senator Mitt Romney, a former governor of Massachusetts and the Republican nominee for president of the United States in 2012. The family friendship is trans-generational as evidenced by Bill Marriott donating $1 million personally to Restore Our Future, a Romney PAC. Mitt Romney's first name is Willard, after John Willard Marriott.\n\nMarriott served for many years, in the late 1940s and 1950s, as president of the LDS Church's Washington Stake, headquartered in Washington, D.C.\n\nIn 1935, Marriott was diagnosed with lymphoma and given between six months to a year to live. However, he survived to live until 1985.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2131615", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2131615", "title": "Sangonet", "text": "Sangonet\n\nSANGONeT is a South African organisation, whose acronym stands for The Southern African NGO Network.\n\nIt is a civil society organisation with a focus on ICT, which was founded in 1987, and has a history closely linked to the social and political changes experienced by South Africa during its transition to democracy.\n\nIn 2006, SANGONeT launched a new joint venture, called www.sangotech.org whose aim is to \"meet and respond to the South African NGO sector's connectivity, hardware and e-business infrastructure * requirements.\"\n\nThe Central Case Management System (CCMS) is an open source software that was developed by SANGONeT for the paralegal sector in South Africa. Designed to allow multiple organisations and paralegal offices to access, input and modify a central database of case records, the CCMS is a web-based thin-client application that eliminates the need to install and maintain software at each office.\n\n"}
{"id": "2131619", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2131619", "title": "Large skipper", "text": "Large skipper\n\nThe large skipper (\"Ochlodes sylvanus\") is a butterfly of the family Hesperiidae.\n\nIt was long known as \"Ochlodes venatus\", but this is a Far Eastern relative. There is still some dispute whether this species should be considered a distinct species or included in \"O. venatus\" as a subspecies. Under ICZN rules the specific name, originally proposed as \"Papilio sylvanus\", is invalid as a homonym (of the butterfly now called \"Anthene sylvanus\"), but it has been conserved by an ICZN commission decision in 2000.\n\nThis species occurs from Europe to the East Palearctic ecozone (northern Asia, China and Japan). In the British Isles it occurs in England, Wales, and south western Scotland. It can be found anywhere where wild grasses are allowed to grow tall. Hedgerows, woodland clearings and edges are favourites.\n\n\"Ochlodes sylvanus\" has a wingspan of 28–32 mm, which is similar in size to Chequered skipper. Although called \"large\" this is still a relatively small butterfly and not much larger than either the small or Essex skippers. The body is rather squat. The antennae are hooked at their tips. The upperside of the wings is orange-brown with a brown border and some lighter spots. The underside of the hindwings is greenish-yellow, marked with sparse yellow spots. The male has a broad scented androconial dark line across the top of the forewings. On the hindwings of the females there are brighter square marks. When the wings are opened, the forewings are obliquely folded, masking the hindwings.\n\nThe faint chequered pattern on both the upperside and underside, and also the hook-shaped antenna tips, help to distinguish the large skipper from these two orange skippers. The Lulworth skipper also has patterned wings, but does not have the hooked antennae.\n\nThe caterpillar can reach a length of . It has a large blackish-brown head and a bluish green body, with a dark line down its back and a yellow stripe along each side.\n\nIn northern Europe these butterflies have a single brood, but in the south they may have up to three broods.\n\nEggs are laid singly on the underside of foodplant leaves and hatch after about two weeks. They are normally laid on cocksfoot (\"Dactylis glomerata\") but they will occasionally use purple moor-grass (\"Molinia caerulea\"), false brome (\"Brachypodium sylvaticum\"), tor-grass (\"B. pinnatum\") and wood small-reed (\"Calamagrostis epigejos\"). Larvae also feed on various \"Poaceae\", \"Phalaris arundinacea\", \"Alopecurus pratensis\", \"Calamagrostis purpurea\", \"Deschampsia flexuosa\", \"Phragmites communis\" and \"Elymus caninus\"., but also on \"Festuca\", \"Triticum\", \"Dactylis glomerata\", \"Molinia\", \"Holcus lanatus\", \"Luzula\", etc.\n\nOn hatching the larvae construct a shelter in the usual skipper method of curling a leaf up with silk and begins to feed. It hibernates as a half-grown caterpillar and emerges in the spring to continue feeding and growing.\n\nPupation lasts about three weeks during May and June and the adults are present from June to August. It is the first of the grass skippers to emerge in the UK. It is an active butterfly in sunny weather, it is attracted to various flowers but has a distinct liking for bramble flowers.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2131649", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2131649", "title": "Sanctions against Iraq", "text": "Sanctions against Iraq\n\nThe sanctions against Iraq were a near-total financial and trade embargo imposed by the United Nations Security Council on Ba'athist Iraq. They began August 6, 1990, four days after Iraq's invasion of Kuwait, stayed largely in force until May 22, 2003 (after Saddam Hussein's being forced from power), and persisted in part, including reparations to Kuwait, through the present. The original stated purposes of the sanctions were to compel Iraq to withdraw from Kuwait, to pay reparations, and to disclose and eliminate any weapons of mass destruction.\n\nInitially the UN Security Council imposed stringent economic sanctions on Iraq by adopting and enforcing United Nations Security Council Resolution 661. After the end of the 1991 Persian Gulf War, those sanctions were extended and elaborated on, including linkage to removal of weapons of mass destruction, by Resolution 687. The sanctions banned all trade and financial resources except for medicine and \"in humanitarian circumstances\" foodstuffs, the import of which into Iraq was tightly regulated.\n\nThe effects of the sanctions on the civilian population of Iraq have been disputed. Whereas it was widely believed that the sanctions caused a major rise in child mortality, research following the 2003 invasion of Iraq has shown that commonly cited data were doctored by the Saddam Hussein regime and that \"there was no major rise in child mortality in Iraq after 1990 and during the period of the sanctions\". \n\nResolutions 660, 661, 662, 664, 665, 666, 667, 669, 670, 674, 677, 678 and 687 expressed the goals of eliminating weapons of mass destruction and extended-range ballistic missiles, prohibiting any support for terrorism, and forcing Iraq to pay war reparations and all foreign debt.\n\nAs described by the \"United Nations Office of the Iraq Programme\", the United Nations Security Council Resolution 661 imposed comprehensive sanctions on Iraq following that country's invasion of Kuwait. These sanctions included strict limits both on the items that could be imported into Iraq and on those that could be exported.\n\nInitially, the UN Sanctions Committee issued no complete list of items that could not be imported into Iraq. Instead, it evaluated applications for importing items to Iraq on a case-by-case basis, in theory allowing foodstuffs, medicines and products for essential civilian needs and barring everything else.\n\nPersons wishing to deliver items to Iraq, whether in trade or for charitable donation, were required to apply for export licenses to the authorities of one or more UN member state, who then sent the application to the Sanctions Committee. The Committee made its decision in secret; any Committee member could veto a permission without giving any reason. As a rule, anything that could have a conceivable military use was banned, such as computers, tractors, although Committee asserted its sole discretion in determining what is essential for every Iraqi and either permitting or denying any thing to the Iraqi population. If the Committee granted approval, it notified the country where the application came from; that country then informed the applicant; the applicant then shipped the items, but the items remained subject to inspection and risk of impoundment.\n\nIn 2002 the process was streamlined, and the sanctions committee established a 'Goods Review List' for certain items. Anything not on the Goods Review list could be imported without restriction, while items with dual-purpose items would be reviewed on a case-by-case basis.\n\nLimitations on Iraqi exports (chiefly oil) made it difficult to fund the import of goods into Iraq. Following the 1991 Gulf War, a United Nations inter-agency mission assessed that \"\"the Iraqi people may soon face a further imminent catastrophe, which could include epidemic and famine, if massive life-supporting needs are not rapidly met.\"\" The Government of Iraq declined offers (in UNSRC resolutions 706 and 712) to enable Iraq to sell limited quantities of oil to meet its people's needs.\nActing under Chapter VII of the United Nations Charter, the Security Council established the Oil for Food Programme via resolution 986 on 14 April 1995 as intended a \"\"temporary measure to provide for the humanitarian needs of the Iraqi people, until the fulfillment by Iraq of the relevant Security Council resolutions...\"\".\nImplementation of the Programme started in December 1996; its first shipment of supplies arrived in March 1997. The Programme was funded exclusively with the proceeds from Iraqi oil exports. At first, Iraq was permitted to sell $2 billion worth of oil every six months, with two-thirds of that amount to be used to meet Iraq's humanitarian needs. In 1998, the limit was raised to $5.26 billion every six months. In December 1999, Security Council resolution 1284 removed the limit on the amount of oil exported.\n\nWith the adoption of United Nations Security Council Resolution 1330 in 2000, Iraqi oil export proceeds were allocated as follows:, \n\nOf the 72% allocated to humanitarian purposes:\n\nEnforcement of the sanctions was primarily by means of military force and legal sanctions. Following the passage of Security Council Resolution 665, a \"Multinational Interception Force\" was organized and led by the United States to intercept, inspect and possibly impound vessels, cargoes and crews suspected of carrying freight to or from Iraq.\n\nThe legal side of sanctions included enforcement through actions brought by individual governments. In the United States, legal enforcement was handled by the Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC). For example, in 2005 OFAC fined Voices in the Wilderness $20,000 for gifting medicine and other humanitarian supplies to Iraqis without prior acquisition of an export license as required by law. In a similar case, OFAC is still attempting to collect (as of 2011) a $10,000 fine, plus interest, against Bert Sacks for bringing medicine to residents of Basra.\n\nThere is a general consensus that the sanctions achieved the express goals of limiting Iraqi arms. For example, U.S. Under Secretary of Defense Douglas J. Feith says that the sanctions diminished Iraq militarily and scholars George A. Lopez and David Cortright say sanctions compelled Iraq to accept inspections and monitoring; winning concessions from Baghdad on political issue such as the border dispute with Kuwait; preventing the rebuilding of Iraqi defenses after the Persian Gulf War; and blocking the import of materials and technologies for producing weapons of mass destruction\". Hussein told his FBI interrogator that Iraq's armaments \"had been eliminated by the UN sanctions.\"\n\nHigh rates of malnutrition, lack of medical supplies, and diseases from lack of clean water were reported during sanctions. In 2001, the chairman of the Iraqi Medical Association's scientific committee sent a plea to the \"BMJ\" to help it raise awareness of the disastrous effects the sanctions were having on the Iraqi healthcare system.\n\nThe modern Iraqi economy had been highly dependent on oil exports; in 1989, the oil sector comprised 61% of the GNP. A drawback of this dependence was the narrowing of the economic base, with the agricultural sector rapidly declining in the 1970s. Some claim that, as a result, the post-1990 sanctions had a particularly devastating effect on Iraq's economy and food security levels of the population.\n\nShortly after the sanctions were imposed, the Iraqi government developed a system of free food rations consisting of 1000 calories per person/day or 40% of the daily requirements, on which an estimated 60% of the population relied for a vital part of their sustenance. With the introduction of the Oil-for-Food Programme in 1997, this situation gradually improved. In May 2000 a United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF) survey noted that almost half the children under 5 years suffered from diarrhoea, in a country where the population is marked by its youth, with 45% being under 14 years of age in 2000. Power shortages, lack of spare parts and insufficient technical know-how lead to the breakdown of many modern facilities. The per capita income in Iraq dropped from $3510 in 1989 to $450 in 1996, heavily influenced by the rapid devaluation of the Iraqi dinar.\n\nIraq had been one of the few countries in the Middle East that invested in women's education. But this situation changed from the late eighties on with increasing militarisation and a declining economic situation. Consequently, the economic hardships and war casualties in the last decades have increased the number of women-headed households and working women.\n\nThomas Nagy argued in September 2001 issue of \"The Progressive\" magazine that United States' government intelligence and actions in the previous ten years demonstrates that the United States government had acted to intentionally destroy Iraq's water supply. Michael Rubin criticized Nagy for \"selective\" use of sources and argued that \"the documentary evidence eviscerates Nagy's conclusions\":\n\nThe oil-for-food program has already spent more than $1 billion in water and sanitation projects in Iraq. Baghdad estimates that providing adequate sanitation and water resources would cost an additional $328 million. However, such an allocation is more than possible given the billions of dollars in oil revenue Baghdad receives each year under sanctions, and the additional $1 billion dollars per year it receives from transport of smuggled oil on the Syrian pipeline alone. Indeed, if Saddam Hussein's government has managed to spend more than $2 billion for new presidential palaces since the end of the Persian Gulf War, and offer to donate nearly $1 billion to support the Palestinian intifada, there is no reason to blame sanctions for any degradation in water and sanitation systems.\nDenis Halliday was appointed United Nations Humanitarian Coordinator in Baghdad, Iraq as of 1 September 1997, at the Assistant Secretary-General level. In October 1998 he resigned after a 34-year career with the UN in order to have the freedom to criticise the sanctions regime, saying \"I don't want to administer a programme that satisfies the definition of genocide\" However, Sophie Boukhari, a UNESCO Courier journalist, reports that \"some legal experts are skeptical about or even against using such terminology\" and quotes Mario Bettati for the view that \"People who talk like that don’t know anything about law. The embargo has certainly affected the Iraqi people badly, but that’s not at all a crime against humanity or genocide.\"\n\nHalliday's successor, Hans von Sponeck, subsequently also resigned in protest, calling the effects of the sanctions a \"true human tragedy\". Jutta Burghardt, head of the World Food Program in Iraq, followed them.\n\nEstimates of excess deaths during the sanctions vary widely, use different methodologies and cover different time-frames. The figure of 500,000 child deaths was for a long period widely cited, but recent research has shown that that figure was the result of survey data manipulated by the Saddam Hussein regime. A 1995 Lancet estimate put the number of child deaths at 567,000, but when one of the authors of the study followed up on it a year later, \"many of the deaths were not confirmed in the reinterviews. Moreover, it emerged that some miscarriages and stillbirths had been wrongly classified as child deaths in 1995.\" A 1999 UNICEF report found that 500,000 children died as a result of sanctions, but comprehensive surveys after 2003 failed to find such child mortality rates. A 2017 study in the \"British Medical Journal\" described \"the rigging of the 1999 Unicef survey\" as \"an especially masterful fraud\". The three comprehensive surveys conducted since 2003 all found that the child mortality rate in the period 1995-2000 was approximately 40 per 1000, which means that there was no major rise in child mortality in Iraq after sanctions were implemented.\n\nAs the sanctions faced mounting condemnation for its humanitarian impacts, several UN resolutions were introduced that allowed Iraq to trade its oil for goods such as food and medicines. The earliest of these, Resolution 706 of 15 August 1991, allowed the sale of Iraqi oil in exchange for food. Resolution 712 of 19 September 1991 confirmed that Iraq could sell up to US$1.6 billion in oil to fund an Oil For Food program.\n\nIn 1996, Iraq was allowed under the UN Oil-for-Food Programme (under Security Council Resolution 986) to export US$5.2 billion of oil every 6 months with which to purchase items needed to sustain the civilian population. After an initial refusal, Iraq signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) in May 1996 for implementation of that resolution. The Oil-for-Food Programme started in October 1997, and the first shipments of food arrived in March 1998. Twenty-five percent of the proceeds were redirected to a Persian Gulf War reparations account, and three percent into United Nations programs related to Iraq.\n\nWhile the programme is credited with improving the conditions of the population, it was not free from controversy. Denis Halliday, who oversaw the Programme, believed it was inadequate to compensate for the adverse humanitarian impacts of the sanctions. The U.S. State Department criticized the Iraqi government for inadequately spending the money, exporting food, and refusing to accept the program for several years after it was offered in 1991. In 2004/5 the Programme became the subject of major media attention over corruption, as allegations surfaced such as that Iraq had systematically sold allocations of oil at below-market prices in return for some of the proceeds from the resale outside the scope of the Programme; investigations implicated individuals and companies from dozens of countries. See Oil For Food Programme - Investigations.\n\nFollowing the 2003 Iraq War, the sanctions regime was largely ended on May 22, 2003 (with certain exceptions related to arms and to oil revenue) by paragraph 10 of UN Security Council Resolution 1483.\n\nSanctions which gave the US and UK control over Iraq's oil revenue were not removed until December 2010. Chapter VII sanctions which required 5% of Iraq's oil and natural gas revenue to be paid to Kuwait as reparations for Saddam Hussain's invasion have since been lifted, leaving approximately US$11 billion unpaid to the government of Kuwait. http://www.crethiplethi.com/khudheir-mussa-al-khuzaie-vice-president-of-iraq-addresses-general-assembly-68th-session-2013/islamic-countries/iraq-islamic-countries/2013/\n\nScholar Ramon Das, in the Human Rights Research Journal of the New Zealand Center for Public Law, examined each of the \"most widely accepted ethical frameworks\" in the context of violations of Iraqi human rights under the sanctions, finding that \"primary responsibility rests with the UNSC [United Nations Security Council]\" under these frameworks, including rights-utilitarianism, moral Kantianism, and consequentialism.\n\nMany academics, American and UN officials, and Iraqi citizens contend that this ignores the overriding control of Saddam Hussein and the corrupt contractors who maintained it, as well as the consequences of allowing Hussein to continue his policies with no deterrence and unlimited capacity. During its last decade, the regime of Saddam Hussein cut public health funding by 90 percent, contributing to a substantial deterioration in health care.\n\nSome commentators blame Saddam Hussein for the excess deaths during this period. For example, Rubin argued that the Kurdish and the Iraqi governments handled Oil For Food aid differently, and that therefore the Iraqi government policy, rather than the sanctions themselves, should be held responsible for any negative effects. Likewise, David Cortright claimed: \"The tens of thousands of excess deaths in the south-center, compared to the similarly sanctioned but UN-administered north, are the result of Baghdad's failure to accept and properly manage the UN humanitarian relief effort.\" In the run-up to the Iraq War, some disputed the idea that excess mortality exceeded 500,000, because the Iraqi government had interfered with objective collection of statistics (independent experts were barred).\n\nOther Western observers, such as Matt Welch and Anthony Arnove, argue that the differences in results noted by authors such as Rubin (above) may have been because the sanctions were not the same in the two parts of Iraq, due to several regional differences: in the per capita money, in war damage to infrastructure and in the relative ease with which smugglers evaded sanctions through the porous Northern borders. This argument was debunked by several UN-sponsored studies taken after the overthrow of Saddam's regime, which revealed that the previous childhood mortality figures for South/Central Iraq were inflated by more than a factor of two and that the childhood mortality rate in those regions was even lower than the rate in northern Iraq.\n\nSome persons, such as Walter Russell Mead, accepted a large estimate of casualties due to sanctions, but argued that invading Iraq was better than continuing the sanctions regime, since \"Each year of containment is a new Gulf War.\"\nFormer British Prime Minister Tony Blair, in his testimony to the Chilcot Inquiry, also argued that ending sanctions was one benefit of the war. Citing recent studies disproving any increase in childhood mortality in Iraq under the sanctions regime, Michael Spagat declared \"this claim should now take up its rightful place in the historical record next to Iraq's mythical weapons of mass destruction.\"\n\nThere were also arguments saying the sanctions had not been as effective as people had thought, due to reports of companies not following trade sanctions on Iraq during this time. One of those countries being France as shown in The Guardian, Washington Times according to Bill Gertz, and New York Times articles that they had been trading Iraq weapons, supplies and nuclear technology leading up to and some argue after the sanctions helping support the Iraq government. So overall the sanctions didn't help in the way it was intended or at least were not successful.\n\nOn May 12, 1996, Madeleine Albright (then U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations) appeared on a \"60 Minutes\" segment in which Lesley Stahl asked her \"We have heard that half a million children have died. I mean, that's more children than died in Hiroshima. And, you know, are is the price worth it?\" and Albright replied \"I think this is a very hard choice, but the price, we think the price is worth it.\"\nAlbright wrote later that Saddam Hussein, not the sanctions, was to blame. She criticized Stahl's segment as \"amount[ing] to Iraqi propaganda\"; said that her question was a loaded question; wrote \"I had fallen into a trap and said something I did not mean\"; and regretted coming \"across as cold-blooded and cruel\". The segment won an Emmy Award. Albright's \"non-denial\" was taken by sanctions opponents as confirmation of a high number of sanctions related casualties.\n\nThere is evidence that the Iraqi government did not fully cooperate with the sanctions. For example, Hussein's son-in-law is heard speaking of concealing information from UN inspectors on audiotapes released in 2006. \"I go back to the question of whether we should reveal everything or continue to be silent. Sir, since the meeting has taken this direction, I would say it is in our interest not to reveal.\" Hussein may have considered the many governments' displeasure with him, but particularly that of two veto-wielding UNSC members, the United States and United Kingdom (both of which took the hardest lines on Iraq), as a no-win situation and disincentive to cooperation in the process.\n\nIt has been alleged that UNSCOM had been infiltrated by British and American spies for purposes other than determining if Iraq possessed WMDs. Former inspector Scott Ritter was a prominent source of these charges. Former UNSCOM chief inspector David Kay said \"the longer it continued, the more the intelligence agencies would, often for very legitimate reasons, decide that they had to use the access they got through cooperation with UNSCOM to carry out their missions\".\n\nRenewed pressure in 2002 led to the entry of UNMOVIC, which eventually received some degree of cooperation; before it could complete its work, the United States required it to leave Iraq to avoid its impending 2003 invasion of Iraq.\n\n"}
{"id": "2131660", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2131660", "title": "Arizona Historical Society", "text": "Arizona Historical Society\n\nThe Arizona Historical Society (AHS) is a non-profit organization whose mission is to connect people through the power of Arizona's history. It does this through 4 regional divisions. Each division has a representative museum. The statewide divisions are as follows: Southern Arizona Division in Tucson, the Central Arizona Division in Tempe, the Northern Arizona Division in Flagstaff, and the Rio Colorado Division in Yuma. It was founded in 1884 (reference 2).\n\nThe group was founded as the Society of Arizona Pioneers on January 31, 1884 by physician John C. Handy, his father-in-law William Fisher Scott, and 58 other Tucson pioneers.\n\nWith a new railroad being built and change on its way to Tucson, Arizona, pioneers worried that their stories of battles with the desert heat and the Apaches would be lost forever. The society was founded to preserve these stories and provide charitable service work to the local community as a mutual aid society. Original Historical Society members were often prominent members of the community, and their tasks with the society included attending funerals and raising money to help out widows.\n\nOver time, the Society evolved to provide storage for official state papers and collect the histories of many Arizona citizens. The society has faced several periods of financial difficulty, and difficulty storing their collections safely. Collections expanded beyond the capacity of facilities several times, until a large, block-long basement was created to store records and documents at the current Main Museum.\n\n, the Society maintained several museums in the state with the financial support of over 3000 members and dozens of volunteers.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe Arizona Historical Society currently houses a large collection of published and unpublished historical documents in its library and archives division. The collections are divided among 4 locations in Arizona, with each location specializing in certain aspects of history. The society lists its collection specialties as follows:\n\n\"Tucson Collections Strengths: Territorial era, Southern Arizona and borderlands, business, genealogy, ranching, politics, mining, military, law, non-profit and grass roots organizations, ephemera, photographs, and maps.\n\nTempe Collections Strengths: 20th Century, Maricopa County and Central Arizona, oral histories, architectural drawings, TV news reels, aviation, banking, healthcare, business, non-profit organizations, arts and culture, photographs and photographic studios.\n\nYuma Collections Strengths: Territorial era to 1940s, Western Arizona, oral histories, agriculture, genealogy, military, local organizations, education, church history, early transportation (railroad, steamboats, plank road), aviation, business, Lower Colorado River, irrigation, Yuma Prison, and photographs.\n\nFlagstaff Collections Strengths: Territorial era to 1950s, Northern Arizona and Colorado Plateau, business, politics, law, lumber industry, railroads, genealogy, local organizations, Indian Pow Wow records, education, healthcare, maps, oral histories and photographs.\"\n\nAHS libraries are staffed by knowledgeable librarians who can aid in professional research or answer general research questions at the research help desk.\n\nThe Historical Society publishes the quarterly \"Journal of Arizona History\". The journal is distributed to members and contains articles about Arizona history. Photo essays and reviews are included along with standard articles. The Historical Society additionally publishes books, a list of which can be found on their website.\n\n"}
{"id": "2131661", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2131661", "title": "Omega Virus", "text": "Omega Virus\n\nThe Omega Virus is a talking electronic board game released by Milton Bradley in 1992. It involves collecting weapons and room keys to destroy the computer virus which has taken over a space station while either hurting or helping your fellow players.\n\nMichael Gray designed \"The Omega Virus\" board game. He also created the boardgames \"Mall Madness\", and \"Dream Phone\".\n\nIt is the year 2051. Earth is now orbited by the great Battlesat1 station which protects earth from meteor impacts and stray comets with a super payload of plasma weapon silos. However, during a routine maintenance operation, something goes horribly wrong, and the station's master computer is infested by microscopic nano-phages that build a singular intelligence (foreign AI) in the computer core. While the humans aboard the station are forced to evacuate as all support systems shut down, the Earth leadership is contacted by the entity known as the Omega Virus, which threatens to turn the Battlesat's plasma weapons upon the planet. A power struggle ensues between four major global powers (the North American Federation, the Euro-National Force, the Oceanic Republic, and the Asiatic Alliance) to send a single techno-combatant to destroy the Virus (and potentially the other techno-combatants) and gain control of the Battlesat station for their government. The Techno combatants depart the Hauser air force base on individual craft, each bound for one of the station's four functioning docking bays where they will battle the Omega Virus – and each other – for control of the space station before the fiendish virus overloads the battle station's master computer and eliminates the techno-warriors.\n\n\"The Omega Virus\" consists of a folding game board, an interactive electronic console that holds the game's weapons, probes and access cards; four folding cardboard-and-stand panels with a slot for the player's access cards, and four commandos.\n\nCommandos and probes are the primary pawns of the game. They came in four colors: red, green, blue, and yellow. Each player starts out in the color-sector that matches their commando, each of which has a corresponding docking bay. The probes are placed in a peg in the central console that corresponds to each sector.\n\nPlay begins by selecting the number of players and the duration of the game. Each player then enters a secret code which would prove useful in accomplishing the game's objective.\n\nThe commando is the only pawn available initially; it moves three adjacent squares to enter a room. Rooms are entered by typing their three digit identifier into the console. Regardless of a player's color, green rooms are the only accessible ones at first.\n\nGame actions are communicated through two voices, one of the besieged Battlesat1 computer and the other of the Virus itself. The computer said phrases like \"Help me. We are running out of time.\" while the Virus mocked the computer and the players. One would inevitably hear \"You human scum\" or \"You fools\" in a gratingly smug voice at some point during the game. The Virus also enjoyed inter-player attacks: \"Green is attacking yellow. What fun! Green, take your best shot.\"\n\nWithin a room, a variety of results could occur. One is that the electronic console would say \"Nothing here.\" in which case the turn is relatively futile. The player might also find a beneficial item: these consisted of colored access cards, which enabled the player to enter different colored rooms; a probe (more later); and one of the three weapons needed to defeat the game's antagonist, The Omega Virus. On the negative side, one might be attacked by the Omega Virus itself. At the end of the turn, the console would say \"code XX\" where XX is a two digit number. If the code matched what the player put in as their secret code at the beginning, the Omega Virus is known to be located in that room. Also on the negative side, a player could be transported to a random docking bay.\n\nIn the event of an attack by the Omega Virus, the player would be given the option to, depending on the number of weapons the player possessed, press one to three buttons out of a possible four in total (0,1,2,R). If the player did not press the same buttons that the Omega Virus has attacked with, an item (access card or weapon) would be destroyed. Additionally, if two players ended up occupying the same room, they could attack each other. The procedure is much the same, except the attacking player would be asked to push one button to launch an attack. The defense is the same method as if the Omega Virus were attacking.\n\nA player could stumble across their corresponding probe in one of the rooms. The probe pawn was placed next to the player and then a second turn was granted in the form of moving the probe. The probe could move any number of spaces that are connected, but could not bypass rooms within a single turn. This enabled a player to explore the board more rapidly. It, like the player's commando pawn, could also initiate and receive attacks.\n\nAs the game progressed, the Omega Virus would \"shut down\" sectors he did not occupy. In this case, the cardboard flap would be folded over the said sector and all players in it were teleported to another sector's docking bay of their choosing.\n\nThrough the player's explorations, once the code and all three weapon items were found, the player was to go to the Omega Virus room and then attack the virus using the same attack methods as before. A player who guessed the correct button to press was declared the winner. Otherwise, the timer ran out and the game was lost for all parties.\n"}
{"id": "2131670", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2131670", "title": "Constantine Anthopoulos", "text": "Constantine Anthopoulos\n\nCostaki Anthopoulos (, ; 1835–1902), was an Ottoman Greek academic and statesman.\n\nHe became a professor at the Ottoman Naval Academy; then entered the legal branch of the Turkish service, rising to the post of imperial procurator at the court of cassation. He was governor-general of Crete; and, in 1895, was appointed Ottoman ambassador in London, a post which he continued to hold until his death at Constantinople in 1902.\n\nHe bore throughout his career the reputation of an intelligent and upright public servant.\n\nIn June 1902, the Sultan conferred on him the decoration \"Nisan-i Iftihar\" (Order of Glory) in diamonds, in recognition of the loyal services rendered by him to the Ottoman Empire.\n\nAttribution:\n"}
{"id": "2131700", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2131700", "title": "James Bay and Northern Quebec Agreement", "text": "James Bay and Northern Quebec Agreement\n\nThe James Bay and Northern Quebec Agreement () is an Aboriginal land claim settlement, approved in 1975 by the Cree and Inuit of northern Quebec, and later slightly modified in 1978 by the Northeastern Quebec Agreement (), through which Quebec's Naskapi First Nation joined the treaty. The agreement covers economic development and property issues in northern Quebec, as well as establishing a number of cultural, social and governmental institutions for Indigenous people who are members of the communities involved in the treaties.\n\nBefore Canadian Confederation, the lands of northern Quebec had been a part of Rupert's Land – the territory administered by the Hudson's Bay Company as part of the charter it received from King Charles II in 1670. In 1870, Rupert's Land was ceded to Canada, and in 1895 the region between the then-province of Quebec and the Hudson Strait became the District of Ungava of the Northwest Territories. In 1898, the border of Quebec was extended north to the Eastmain River. Quebec continued to claim the remaining District of Ungava, north of the Eastmain River, and in 1912 the area was transferred to Quebec, subject to the condition that a treaty be negotiated with the Indigenous peoples of the region recognizing their cultural rights and surrendering their title to the land to Quebec and Canada. There was at the time no pre-existing treaty covering that area. The government of Quebec did not immediately undertake such negotiations.\n\nIn the 1960s, Quebec began developing potential hydroelectric resources in the north, and in 1971 created the \"James Bay Development Corporation\" to pursue the development of mining, forestry and other potential resources starting with the James Bay Hydroelectric Project. This massive undertaking, which was directed by an increasingly assertive government of Quebec without consulting Indigenous people, was opposed by most of northern Quebec's Cree and Inuit. The \"Quebec Association of Indians\" – an \"ad hoc\" representative body of Indigenous northern Quebecers – sued the government and, on 15 November 1973, won an injunction in the Quebec Superior Court blocking hydroelectric development until the province had negotiated an agreement with the Indigenous nations.\n\nThis judgment was overruled by the Quebec Court of Appeal seven days later, after the government's efforts to quickly negotiate an agreement failed. Nonetheless, the legal requirement that Quebec negotiate a treaty covering the territory had not been overturned, even though construction continued.\n\nOver the course of the next year, the government of Quebec negotiated the required accord. On 15 November 1974 – exactly a year after the Superior Court decision – an agreement-in-principle was signed between the governments of Canada, Quebec, publicly owned Hydro-Québec, the Grand Council of the Crees, headed by Billy Diamond, and the Northern Quebec Inuit Association. The final accord – the James Bay And Northern Quebec Agreement () – was signed on 11 November 1975. This convention originally only covered claims made by Quebec Cree and Inuit; however, on 31 January 1978, the Naskapi of Quebec signed a parallel agreement – the Northeastern Quebec Agreement – and joined the institutions established under the 1975 accord.\n\nThe James Bay and Northern Quebec agreement has been further modified by some 20 additional accords affecting the implementation and details of the original agreement, as well as expanding their provisions. Furthermore, the Constitution Act, 1982, entrenched in the Constitution of Canada all the rights granted in treaties and land claims agreements enacted before 1982, giving the rights outlined in the original agreement the status of constitutional rights.\n\nThe James Bay agreement touches on a number of subjects and, as the first Canada-Indigenous treaty since the 1920s, it bears little resemblance to previous treaties but has become the prototype of the many agreements made since then. It established a number of provisions, principally in the following areas:\n\n\nCategory I – The title to the Category I lands was transferred to the Inuit Community Corporations (now known as The Landholding Corporations) for Inuit community purposes. Each community was given about 243 square miles. Though category I lands are owned by the Inuit communities of Nunavik, the subsurface and the minerals rights are still owned by the Quebec government, though they cannot extract minerals in the subsurface without permission of the local village and without compensation. Category I lands cannot be sold or given up except to the Crown in the right of Quebec.\n\n\nCategory II – Category II lands belong to the Government of Quebec, but the Inuit have exclusive hunting, fishing and trapping rights. Category II can be taken away by Quebec for the purpose of development but only with consent and compensation for the nearest village.\n\nCategory III – Category III lands are everything not in Category I or Category II lands. Category III lands are owned by Quebec, and the government of Quebec can authorize development projects without consulting the nearby communities and Landholding Corporations. Category III lands are a joint use area for Inuit and non-Inuit in matters of access, as well as for hunting, fishing and trapping activities.\n\nThe Inuit have always been connected and respectful to the land and sea in the northern part of Canada. It is where we have lived and survived for thousands of years. It is where our ancestors taught their children where to pick berries, how to hunt for food, and make tools off the land. The land, the wildlife and sea were, and still is, a great provider for us Inuit, Cree, and Naskapi. Its important that the land be respected and handled with the right intentions for future generations and future developments. These mandates were created so that our ecosystem and our way of life thrives with growing populations and need for development.\n\n\nIn the James Bay and Northern Quebec Agreement, Section 12 stated that there will be a local government for each of the villages in Inuit territory north of the 55th parallel. The name of the Northern Villages also commonly known as \"NV\" is \"The Municipality of ___________\". They are: Kuujjuaraapik, Umiujaq, Inukjuaq, Puvirnituq, Akulivik, Ivujivik, Salluit, Kangirsujuaq, Quartaq, Kangirsuk, Aupaluk, Tasiujaq, Kuujjuaq, Kangirsualujjuaq. [1]The services from the municipal office are health and hygiene, town planning and land development, public services, traffic and transportation, recreation and culture. For an example, they provide daily water deliveries, sewage disposals/lagoons, run the fire departments, organize recreational/cultural activities, maintain the roads, garbage removal/disposal, lighting, heating, power and snow removal. [2] It is a public government meaning anyone, Inuk or non-Inuk, could run for municipal office. Any Canadian citizen, ordinarily a resident of the village for at least thirty-six months, who has no municipal debts, no contracts with nor working for a NV, no convictions of any crime under the law of Canada is eligible to run.[3] There should be 1 mayor and 2–6 councilors depending on the population of the village[4]. One member of the council is appointed to be the Kativik Regional Government (KRG) representative.[5] Elections for municipal council are much like municipal elections in the rest of Canada. Anyone aged 18 or over, who holds Canadian citizenship, and resident in the territory for at least 12 months is eligible to vote.[6]\n\nThe NRBSS is an organization dedicated to improving the health and well-being of the populations in its territory. Its overall mission is to adapt the health and social service programs to the population's needs and to the region's realities. It ensures the organization and efficient use of resources granted to the Nunavik region. (presentation made by NRBHSS) It was created in 1995.\n\nEach of the fourteen communities has a local nursing station. Inside their nursing stations, public services include dentists, nurses, doctors, youth protection services, social services. In the smaller communities, the people have to be flown to either Kuujjuaq or Puvirnituq depending on where they live in order to be seen by a doctor and in some cases the people need to be seen by a doctor in the south depending on the severity of the illness. For the Hudson Bay region, the hospital is in Puvirnituq while the Ungava Bay regions hospital is in Kuujjuaq.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2131740", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2131740", "title": "Crêpe (textile)", "text": "Crêpe (textile)\n\nCrêpe, also spelt crepe or crape (from the Fr. \"crêpe\"), is a silk, wool, or synthetic fiber fabric with a distinctively crisp, crimped appearance. The term \"crape\" typically refers to a form of the fabric associated specifically with mourning. Crêpe is also historically called \"crespe\" or \"crisp\".\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2131753", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2131753", "title": "List of Turkish people by net worth", "text": "List of Turkish people by net worth\n\nList of Turkish Billionaires is an annual ranking by documented net worth of the wealthiest billionaires in Turkey, compiled and published in March annually by the American business magazine \"Forbes\".\n\nEach year, \"Forbes\" employs a team of more than 50 reporters from a variety of countries to track the activity of the world's wealthiest individuals. Preliminary surveys are sent to those who may qualify for the list. According to \"Forbes\", they received three types of responses – some people try to inflate their wealth, others cooperate but leave out details, and some refuse to answer any questions. Business deals are then scrutinized and estimates of valuable assets – land, homes, vehicles, artwork, etc. – are made. Interviews are conducted to vet the figures and improve the estimate of an individual's holdings. Finally, positions in a publicly traded stock are priced to market on a date roughly a month before publication. Privately held companies are priced by the prevailing price-to-sales or price-to-earnings ratios. Known debt is subtracted from assets to get a final estimate of an individual's estimated worth in United States dollars. Since stock prices fluctuate rapidly, an individual's true wealth and ranking at the time of publication may vary from their situation when the list was compiled.\n\nFamily fortunes dispersed over a large number of relatives are included only if those individuals' holdings are worth more than a billion dollars. However, when a living individual has dispersed his or her wealth to immediate family members, it is included under a single listing provided that individual is still living. Royal families and dictators that have their wealth contingent on a position are always excluded from these lists.\n\nThe rankings are published annually in March, so the net worths listed are snapshots taken at that time.\n\n"}
{"id": "2131777", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2131777", "title": "Ammonium thioglycolate", "text": "Ammonium thioglycolate\n\nAmmonium thioglycolate, also known as perm salt, is the salt of thioglycolic acid and ammonia. It has the formula HSCHCONH and has use in perming hair.\n\nBeing the salt of a weak acid and weak base, ammonium thioglycolate exists in solution as an equilibrium mixture of the salt itself as well as thioglycolic acid and ammonia:\n\nThioglycolate, in turn, is able to cleave disulfide bonds, capping one side with a hydrogen and forming a new disulfide with the other side:\n\nA solution containing ammonium thioglycolate contains a lot of free ammonia, which swells hair, rendering it permeable. The thioglycolic acid in the perm solution reduces the disulfide cystine bonds in the cortex of the hair. In a sense, the thioglycolate removes crosslinks. After washing, the hair is treated with a mild solution of hydrogen peroxide, which oxidizes the cysteines back to cystine. These new chemical bonds impart the structural rigidity necessary for a successful perm. The rigidification process is akin to the vulcanization of rubber, where commonly polysulfide linkages are used to crosslink the polymer chains. However, not as many disulfide bonds are reformed as there were before the permanent. As a result, the hair is weaker than before the permanent was applied and repeated applications over the same spot may eventually cause strand breakage.\n\nSince polar molecules are less volatile than nonpolar ones, the glycolate substituent makes the thiol non-volatile and hence less odorous. An added advantage is that the glycolate confers some solubility in water. One could almost certainly use HSCH and ammonia to give a perm, but there would be serious olfactory consequences.\n\nIn the 2001 film \"Legally Blonde\", the protagonist, law student Elle Woods, wins her first case by her knowledge of the chemistry of ammonium thioglycolate.\n"}
{"id": "2131790", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2131790", "title": "Dingy skipper", "text": "Dingy skipper\n\nThe dingy skipper (\"Erynnis tages\") is a butterfly of the family Hesperiidae. It ranges from Europe across Asia Minor and Central Asia to the Amur region. \"Erynnis tages\" favours open grassy habitats up to 2,000 metres above sea level. The insect flies in two generations from May–June and July–August but in northern regions and at the high altitudes, there is only a single generation. Larval host plants in Europe are \"Eryngium\", \"Lotus\", \"Coronilla\", \"Medicago\", \"Hippocrepis\" etc.\nSubspecies are little defined and include \"E. t. unicolor\" Freyer, 1852 found in Transcaucasia.\n\nThis well-camouflaged, brown and grey butterfly can be confused with the grizzled skipper, the Mother Shipton moth or the burnet companion moth. It is probably the most moth-like British butterfly and normally rests with its wings in a moth-like fashion. It is widely but patchily distributed across Britain. It occurs further north than any other skipper in Scotland with some isolated colonies in the Inverness region. It is also one of the two skippers to be found in Ireland, again with a patchy distribution but the main strongholds along the western side. A variety of habitats are used including chalk downland, woodland clearings, coastal dunes, railway lines and waste ground. It is on the decline in several European countries including the UK and Armenia.\n\nThe eggs are laid singly on the tender young leaves of bird's-foot trefoil (\"Lotus corniculatus\"), the favoured food plant (although horseshoe vetch (\"Hippocrepis comosa\") and greater bird's-foot trefoil (\"Lotus pendunculatus\") are sometimes used). The caterpillar creates a shelter by spinning leaves together and feeds until fully grown in August. It then creates a larger tent to form a hibernaculum where it hibernates. Pupation occurs the following spring without further feeding. Adults are on the wing from mid-May till mid-June.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2131807", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2131807", "title": "Chapleau, Ontario", "text": "Chapleau, Ontario\n\nChapleau is a township in Sudbury District, Ontario, Canada. It is home to one of the world's largest wildlife preserves. Chapleau has a population of 1,964 according to the Canada 2016 Census.\n\nThe major industries within town are the logging mill, Tembec, and the Canadian Pacific Railway (CPR) railyards.\n\nThe first European settlement in the area was established in 1777 by the Hudson's Bay Company. The settlement was a fur trading post about to Chapleau's north, on Big Missinabi Lake.\n\nIn 1885 the Canadian Pacific Railway was built through the area. The CPR chose this as a division point, and the town was founded. It was named in honour of Sir Joseph-Adolphe Chapleau (November 7, 1840 − June 13, 1898), lawyer, journalist, businessman, politician, and most notably the 5th Premier of Quebec.\n\nLouis Hémon, author of the French novel Maria Chapdelaine, was struck and killed by a train in Chapleau on 8 July 1913.\n\nAfter a fire in 1948, the government was prompted to construct a road to Chapleau to enable logging contractors to truck timber before it rotted. The Chapleau Road (now Highway 129) was completed on January 28, 1949. In the early 1960s, Highway 101 was completed to link Chapleau with Timmins to the east, and Wawa to the west.\n\nChapleau also developed logging and lumber mill operations, up until 1994 the town supported no less than three lumber mills, but the United States' imposition of a softwood lumber tariff designed to benefit American lumber companies has led to many layoffs and difficult times for the town. At its largest, with large CPR and lumber operations, the town had a population of over 5,000. However, the town has been gradually shrinking since 1950.\n\nIn 1967, the Chapleau Centennial Museum was opened to showcase and celebrate local history. It is located at 94 Monk Street.\n\nChapleau is located in central Northeastern Ontario, in the heart of the Canadian Shield. Chapleau is geographically isolated; the nearest cities are Sault Ste. Marie, Timmins, and Sudbury, but all are more than a two-hour drive away. Highway 129 links the town with Highway 101, running east to Timmins and west to Wawa. Highway 129 also runs south, connecting with the Trans-Canada Highway, Highway 17 at Thessalon, from Chapleau.\n\nThree First Nations reserves are located near the township: Chapleau Cree First Nation, Brunswick House First Nation, and Chapleau Ojibway First Nation.\n\nOne unusual feature of the community's transportation network is that because a railway yard separates the community into distinct halves, the main street in the western portion of the community loops back over itself in a manner resembling a cloverleaf interchange, and then crosses over both itself and the railway yard on a grade separation before returning to street level to link to the eastern street grid.\n\nChapleau Crown Game Preserve to the north of the town is, at over , the largest animal preserve in the world. Protected wildlife include moose, black bears, pygmy shrews, bald eagles and loons. The preserve is a source of tourism, drawing nature-enthusiasts and fishermen to the township. All forms of hunting and trapping have been forbidden in the preserve since the 1920s. The result is an area with abundant wildlife. In fact, over 2,500 moose and over 2,000 black bears reside within the game preserve. Logging does occur within the preserve, as does fishing. There are two provincial parks and cottages located within the preserve.\n\nChapleau experiences a humid continental climate (\"Dfb\").\n\nChapleau was incorporated as the Corporation of the Township of Chapleau on February 1, 1901. Since that time it has been governed locally by a five-member council. The current council is made up of Mayor Michael Levesque and Councillors Rick Smith, Gerard Bernier, Nicolle Schuurman and Lisi Bernier.\n\nThe town has two high schools, Chapleau High School and École Secondaire Catholique Trillium, and three elementary schools, Chapleau Public School, École élémentaire catholique Sacré-Cœur, and Our Lady of Fatima. Chapleau High and Chapleau Public belong to the Algoma District School Board, the others belong to the French and English Catholic school boards.\n\nMain employers in Chapleau include the Canadian Pacific Railway and Tembec. Tourism is also an important part of the economy with several outfitters and lodges operating in the area.\n\nIn 2012, the Chapleau Economic Development Corporation (CEDC) was founded as an independent, non-profit organization. Resolution 28-371, passed by the Chapleau Town Council on September 24, 2012, established the existing agreement between the Township and the CEDC.\n\nGoldcorp is working towards the advanced exploration phase at the Borden Gold project.\n\nStarting on November 9, 2005, Chapleau residents began testing a wireless mesh Internet technology in a program called Project Chapleau. This Wi-Fi connection covered the entire town and was the first of its kind in Canada.\n\nThis service was designed and implemented by Bell Canada Enterprises, Nortel Networks, and the Township of Chapleau.\n\nAn analysis of the impact of high-speed internet on the residents and town of Chapleau was published in 2010 by Jessica Collins and Barry Wellman.\n\nIn April, 2007, Project Chapleau concluded without a reason being given. The Project Chapleau office (The Chapleau Innovation Centre) was converted into a public internet access point, with job search and community networking facilities.\n\nAll of the township's regular broadcast media are rebroadcasters of signals from Sudbury, Timmins or Wawa. The township's only purely local media service is CFJW-FM 93.7, a special station which airs information from the municipal government in the event of a weather or industrial emergency. The station does not broadcast on a regular basis; in the event of an emergency, the municipal fire service activates its fire sirens to alert residents to tune in the station.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2131812", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2131812", "title": "Heidi Range", "text": "Heidi Range\n\nHeidi India Partakis (née Range; born 23 May 1983) is an English singer-songwriter. She is best known for being a former member of the group Sugababes. Range was an original member of girl group Atomic Kitten, although she left the group two years before releasing any material. In 2001, Range replaced Siobhán Donaghy of the Sugababes and had accumulated six UK number one singles as well as two number one studio albums with the group before splitting in 2011. Range has since concentrated on theatre work.\n\nIn 1997, Range auditioned for a part in the group Scooch, but was rejected as she was too young. Instead, she joined Atomic Kitten, a girl group founded by OMD frontman Andy McCluskey, along with Liz McClarnon and Kerry Katona. She recorded several demos and the intended debut album with the group. In 1999 Range decided to leave the group after 8 months wanting to pursue a more R&B style of music instead of the pop music Atomic Kitten were making and was therefore replaced with Natasha Hamilton.\n\nHaving already started work on a second album with new member Range, Sugababes looked for a new record label, eventually signing to Island Records. Their first single on the new label, \"Freak like Me\" scored the group their first UK number 1 single. Follow-up single \"Round Round\" also debuted on top of the UK Singles Chart and peaked at number 2 in Ireland, the Netherlands and New Zealand. Both singles were certified silver by the BPI. On the back of the success of the singles, the group's second album, \"Angels with Dirty Faces\", debuted at number 2 on the UK Albums Chart and was later certified triple platinum, selling almost a million copies in the UK alone. It is to date their highest-selling album. In the UK, the third single from the album, a ballad titled \"Stronger\", gained the girls their third consecutive top ten hit in their native country. The track was released as a double-A side with \"Angels with Dirty Faces\" in the UK, the latter song chosen as the theme tune to \"The Powerpuff Girls Movie\". A fourth single, the Sting-sampling \"Shape\", made the top ten in the Netherlands and Ireland in early 2003.\n\nAfter a hiatus, the Sugababes released their thirteenth single, \"Push the Button\" in October 2005. The song debuted at number 1 in the UK and remained in the position for three consecutive weeks. It also peaked at number one in Ireland, Austria and New Zealand, and reached the top three across Europe and in Australia. Certified silver in the UK, it was later nominated at the BRIT Awards for Best Single. Parent album \"Taller in More Ways\" became the group's first UK number 1 album. The group was number 1 on the singles, album, airplay and download charts simultaneously, making them the first girl group to achieve such a feat. \"Taller in More Ways\" was certified double platinum in the UK.\n\nThe third single from \"Taller in More Ways\" was a re-recorded version of \"Red Dress\", which was released in early 2006, and gave the Sugababes their third consecutive top five hit from the album, entering the UK Singles Chart at number 4. Berrabah re-recorded three of the album's twelve tracks and co-wrote a new song with Keisha Buchanan and Range named \"Now You're Gone\". The tracks appeared on a re-release of \"Taller in More Ways\" that reached number 18 on the UK Albums Chart. The fourth and final single from \"Taller in More Ways\" was \"Follow Me Home\", released only in the UK in June, where it charted at number 32.\n\nIn the 2009 edition of the \"Guinness Book of World Records\", \"About You Now\" was listed as the \"first track by a British pop act to top the singles chart solely on downloads\". The song was also named as the \"biggest chart mover to the number one position in the UK\".\n\nAfter the release of \"No Can Do\", the group announced that there would be no 2009 tour in support of \"Catfights and Spotlights\" so that they could focus on writing and recording material for their seventh studio album. The Sugababes travelled to the United States to work on their seventh studio album, \"Sweet 7\". In April 2009, the Sugababes signed a contract with Jay-Z's label Roc Nation, resulting in working with high-profile producers. The lead single from \"Sweet 7\", \"Get Sexy\", debuted at number 2 on the UK Singles Chart in September 2009. In September 2009, Berrabah was reported to have left the Sugababes. She had missed two engagements promoting \"Sweet 7\". However, on 21 September, it was revealed that Buchanan, the sole original member of the group, had left the Sugababes. Buchanan's place was filled by Jade Ewen, the UK's 2009 Eurovision Song Contest entrant. Berrabah and Range admitted that they played no role in Buchanan's departure. Both women had attempted to quit the Sugababes themselves only to find that their group's management decided that they would follow them, rather than find two new members for Buchanan.\n\nOn 1 July 2011, Buchanan approached the current line-up of Sugababes at the Barclaycard Wireless festival in London, where the girls were reported to have a \"tear-eyed\" reunion and put the past behind them. It was the first time in two years that Buchanan had seen former bandmates Heidi Range and Amelle Berrabah.\nThe new member, Ewen, was flown to the United States to film the music video for single \"About a Girl\" mere days after it was announced that Buchanan had left the group. \"About a Girl\" reached number 8 in the UK, during a truncated promotion schedule due to Berrabah flying to Austria for treatment for nervous exhaustion resulting from the line-up change. In late 2009, \"Wear My Kiss\" was confirmed for release in February 2010 as the third single, with the album, originally set for a late November 2009 release, delayed until March 2010. \"Wear My Kiss\" debuted and peaked at number 7 in the UK, making \"Sweet 7\" the Sugababes' first album since \"Taller in More Ways\" to contain at least three top ten hits. The album debuted and peaked at number 14 in the UK.\n\nIn March 2010, former group member Mutya Buena applied to the European Trademarks Authority for ownership of the group's name. The application was submitted amid the controversy of Buchanan's departure, in which Buena insisted that \"the Sugababes have ended\" without a founding member still in the group. It was confirmed that Buena had obtained rights to use the name on paper, cardboard and goods; namely stationery, paper gift wrap and paper gift wrapping ribbons. It was also revealed in the same month that they were dropped by Roc Nation, due to poor sales of \"Sweet 7\". In 2011, Sugababes released the lead single from their new album called Freedom which was released as a free download. The group later disbanded.\n\nRange appeared on the 2012 series of ITV1's \"Dancing on Ice\". Her partner was due to be Sylvain Longchambon, but after he pulled out with an arm injury she was partnered by Russian ice skater, Andrei Lipanov. In January 2012, Heidi Range revealed she'd been considering recording a solo album. On 19 February 2012, Range and Sebastien Foucan were eliminated in a double elimination. In June 2012, Range announced the Sugababes were currently in the studio writing material, but have no plans to release any in the near future.\n\nOn 18 December 2012 it was reported that Range would be joining the Spice Girls and replacing Victoria Beckham, however Emma Bunton and Range quickly denied the rumours with Bunton saying \"None of the Spice Girls would ever or could ever be replaced, nonsense in the papers\" with Range adding \"Ahh and there was me all getting ready to be Suga Spice, haha x\". In March 2013 it was announced that Range would appear on \"Totally Senseless\", an ITV1 series as a team captain with Brian Dowling and Steve Jones as hosts. The series was not picked up by ITV. Range took part in the 8th series of \"Celebrity MasterChef\", aired in summer 2013, but was the first to be eliminated.\n\nShe appeared as the lead female role of Pinky Tuscadero in a \"Happy Days\" musical touring the UK.\n\nFrom February 2016 she appeared in the West End musical \"The War Of The Worlds\" as Beth.\n\n\nRange was engaged to MTV and Capital London presenter Dave Berry, who proposed to her on New Year's Eve while on holiday in India. Range had stated her intentions to marry in the winter of 2012, but on 10 December 2011, Range stated that the couple had separated after eight years together. Heidi married Alex Partakis in Florence on 3 September 2016. On 31 July 2017, Range confirmed on her official Twitter post that she was expecting her first child. On 21 January 2018, she and her husband welcomed their first child, Aurelia Honey Partakis. \n"}
{"id": "2131846", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2131846", "title": "Paul Field (musician)", "text": "Paul Field (musician)\n\nPaul James Field (born 3 May 1961) is an Australian singer-songwriter and filmmaker. He is best known as one of the founding members of the Sydney pub rock band The Cockroaches and The Field Brothers and as Managing Director for the children's music group The Wiggles.\n\nField was educated at St Joseph's College Hunters Hill, where he excelled as a rugby player and musician. Upon leaving school he attained his teaching qualification from Australian Catholic University and a diploma of religious education from Aquinas Academy in Sydney.\n\nIn the late 1970s, while still at boarding school he and his brothers John and Anthony formed the pop group The Cockroaches. Paul was the lead vocalist for the band and also booked their first live shows in pubs in the inner city of Sydney and Kings Cross.\n\nThe Cockroaches enjoyed some success in Australia, producing three albums, one of which, \"The Cockroaches\", sold 100,000 copies and became platinum. The band consisted of the three Field brothers, who played guitar and vocals, fellow boarding-school student Tony Henry, who played drums, Phil Robinson on bass, and Jeff Fatt on keyboards. According to Anthony Field, Paul Field was \"a picture of professional efficiency\", whereas John Field was the showman of the group. John Field's performances on-stage built the Cockroaches' reputation for being a party-band, even though alcohol and drug use was never part of the band's culture. In the heyday of The Cockroaches, they played over 300 gigs a year all over Australia; according to Anthony Field, they were \"one of the biggest crowd-drawing groups in Australia\". Australian musicologist Ian McFarland called The Cockroaches \"an in-demand pub band [that built] a sweaty, frenzied atmosphere with good old-fashioned showmanship and unpretentious, energetic rock'n'pop\".\n\nIn September 1988, while The Cockroaches were on tour in Queensland, Field's eight-month-old daughter died of SIDS. Her death \"had a devastating effect on everyone involved\", but The Cockroaches went back on tour to \"create a sense of normality\" and because he \"had bills to pay\". By early 1989, however, \"nothing was ever the same again\"; Anthony Field left the band to study Early Childhood Education at Macquarie University, and The Cockroaches disbanded. Anthony formed The Wiggles in 1991, with Murray Cook, Greg Page, and fellow Cockroaches band member Jeff Fatt, and they dedicated their first album to his niece.\n\nIn 1998, at the request of his brother Anthony, Field became The Wiggles' manager and began working with them. At first, he booked venues for the group, \"mainly pre-schools, RSLs and theatres\". By 2007, he produced and directed their videos and oversaw their consumer products. As manager of The Wiggles, Anthony Field has said, \"I totally trust Paul; he is an honest man\".\n\nField has expressed an appreciation for the development of The Wiggles coming out of the tragedy of his daughter's death. \"When I think of how much joy [The] Wiggles have brought to children, it's good to know that out of an event so horrifying, something good has come\", Field has said. Field has his daughter's name tattooed on his right arm and the names of his four other children and his wife on his left arm, something his younger brother Anthony has emulated when he had the names of his three children tattooed on his arms. Paul Field's children have appeared in several of The Wiggles' videos and television programs. His son Luke Field served as tour manager and his daughter Clare Field was dance captain for The Wiggles' \"Dorothy the Dinosaur Show\"; both had toured with the group for most of their lives.\n\nIn 2011, twenty years after the last recording of The Cockroaches, Field and his brother John recorded an album, entitled \"1964\" because its cover featured a picture of the brothers taken that year. Their sister Maria co-wrote a track on the album, and some Cockroaches songs were re-recorded as country songs, including their hits \"Some Kind of Girl\", \"Rely on Me\", and \"Permanently Single\". The album was dedicated to the Fields' parents and to Paul's oldest daughter, and reflected the previous 20 years of their lives.\n\nField was made a Member of the Order of Australia in the 2020 Australia Day Honours for \"significant service to the arts, particularly to children's entertainment, and as a supporter of charitable endeavours.\"\n"}
{"id": "2131866", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2131866", "title": "Bryan-Michael Cox", "text": "Bryan-Michael Cox\n\nBryan-Michael Paul Cox (born December 1, 1977) is an American record producer and songwriter who is notable for his extensive work with multiple platinum-selling artists including Usher, Mariah Carey, Mary J. Blige, and Toni Braxton. Among his most notable productions are \"Be Without You\" for Mary J. Blige, \"Burn\", \"Confessions Part II\" and \"U Got It Bad\" for Usher, and \"Shake It Off\", \"I Stay In Love\" and \"You Don't Know What To Do\" for Mariah Carey.\n\nCox also attained a Guinness World Record for the longest consecutive period of chart success (after spending over five years on the Billboard chart continuously), breaking the record was previously held by The Beatles. After growing up in Houston, Texas (where Cox was good friends at high school with Beyoncé, often producing records for the members of Destiny's Child before they signed with Columbia Records), Cox relocated to Atlanta to pursue his professional music career and soon established a close working relationship with his frequent production partner Jermaine Dupri.\n\nDuring his career Cox has been responsible for more than 100 million album sales, 35 number-one hits, and 12 Grammy Award nominations (including nine wins). He is widely regarded as one of the most critically acclaimed and commercially successful songwriters and producers in the history of contemporary R&B. In 2009, he was inducted into the Georgia Music Hall of Fame for his outstanding contribution to music.\n\nCox has said that his mother played the flute: \"My mom would buy music instead of food when I was little. We would spend her entire paycheck at the record store.\" He expressed his musical ambitions to her when he was seven years old, having written his first song when he was just six years old. Later, he enrolled in Houston's High School for the Performing and Visual Arts.\n\nIn high school, Cox met Beyoncé Knowles when he was a senior and she was a freshman. He recorded his first-ever demo tape with her. Although the two wouldn’t reconnect until nearly seven years later when Bryan produced a track on Destiny's Child’s \"Destiny Fulfilled\", it was the early confirmation from Mathew Knowles that prompted Bryan to go into the music industry.\n\n\"Back then there was three choices if you wanted to be in the music industry, live in New York, LA, or Atlanta. I enrolled in Clark Atlanta University because although my Mom supported my dreams one hundred percent I had to go to college, so I chose Clark because I was just trying to get to Atlanta.\" \n\nCox began his career as an intern at Noontime Records in Atlanta, Georgia. He was discovered by his manager Chris Hicks, who was a partner in Noontime. Cox's first two hit singles as a producer were \"Get Gone\" and \"Creep Inn\" for the short-lived R&B group Ideal.\n\nCox contributed to Lil Bow Wow's debut album, \"Beware of Dog\", writing the single \"Puppy Love\" and the \"Big Momma's House\" soundtrack. He worked with Jagged Edge's second studio album \"J.E. Heartbreak\", contributing to songs \"He Can't Love U\" and \"Let's Get Married\". He contributed to Tamar Braxton's debut album, \"Tamar\" co-writing and producing \"Get None\" with musical partner Jermaine Dupri. He wrote and co-produced the second single \"Just Be a Man About It\" from Toni Braxton's third studio album, \"The Heat\".\n\nCox worked with Usher, contributing to \"Confessions\", co-writing and co-producing \"Billboard\" Hot 100 number-one songs \"Burn\" and \"Confessions Part II\". \"Confessions\" won Best Contemporary R&B Album at the 2005 Grammys. \"Confessions\" has been certified diamond by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA) and, as of 2012, has sold 10.3 million copies in the United States. It has sold over 20 million copies worldwide. He worked with Mariah Carey again on 2005's \"The Emancipation of Mimi\" with hits \"Shake It Off\" and \"Don’t Forget About Us\". \"Don't Forget About Us\" was nominated for two Grammy Awards.\n\nCox co-wrote \"Shortie Like Mine\" the first single for Bow Wow's fifth studio album, \"The Price of Fame\", in 2006. Again working with Austin together the duo co-wrote \"Stay Down\" for Mary J. Blige's eighth studio album, \"Growing Pains\" in 2007. Cox co-wrote \"Can't Help but Wait\" for Trey Songz's second studio album \"Trey Day\". The song was nominated for Best Male R&B Vocal Performance at the 51st Annual Grammy Awards. Cox produced and co-wrote \"Circles\", the third single from Marques Houston's \"Veteran\" album. In 2008, he wrote five songs for the group Day26's self-tiled debut album, including the second single, \"Since You've Been Gone\".\n\nIn 2010, he co-wrote and produced \"Never Let You Go\", the single for \"My World 2.0\", the debut studio album by Justin Bieber. For Mariah Carey he co-wrote and co-produced \"Oh Santa!\", alongside Jermaine Dupri and Carey, for her second Christmas/thirteenth studio album, \"Merry Christmas II You\". He added songwriting and production on Usher's Grammy award-winning album \"Raymond vs Raymond\". In the same year Cox co-produced the single \"Love All Over Me\", the single from Monica's sixth studio album, \"Still Standing\". He worked on \"Love and War\" for Tamar Braxton in 2013. He worked with Johtna Austin co-writing for R. Kelly's thirteenth studio album \"The Buffet\", and on \"Views\" for Drake. Cox co-wrote on Free TC for Ty $ Dolla Sign in 2016.\n\nCox went on to co-produce alongside his musical mentor Jermaine Dupri. He has had 35 number-one hits, 12 Grammy Award nominations, including nine wins, 20 top-ten hits, and eclipsing the record previously held by the Beatles for \"Billboard\"’s most consecutive number-one hits. Cox has been named one of \"Billboard\"s \"Top 10 Producers of the Decade\" and sits on \"Billboard\"s \"Hot R&B Song of the Decade List\", \"Hot 100 Songs of the Decade List\", \"Top 200 Albums of the Decade List\" and is a 2009 Georgia Music Hall of Fame inductee. He has been awarded the \"Billboard\" Songwriter of the Year Award and the SESAC Songwriter of the Year Award six consecutive years.\n\n"}
{"id": "2131871", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2131871", "title": "William E. Connolly", "text": "William E. Connolly\n\nWilliam Eugene Connolly is a political theorist known for his work on democracy, pluralism, capitalism and climate change. He is the Krieger-Eisenhower Professor of Political Science at Johns Hopkins University. His 1974 work \"The Terms of Political Discourse\" won the 1999 Benjamin Lippincott Award. \n\nCornell University political theorist Alexander Livingston summarizes Connolly's work in the following way: \"For fifty years, Connolly has pushed the boundaries of democratic theory to ever more complex, layered, and entangled visions of politics. From his early writings on ideology and social science, to his work on agonism and identity in the 1990s, to his most recent writings on capitalism and climate change, Connolly has warned against the dangers of rooting democratic theory in final foundations or fixed identities in favor of a pluralizing vision of democracy as the agnostic care for difference. The rhizome, not the root, is the better symbol for Connolly’s democratic imaginary ... While there can be no core idea uniting his corpus, pluralism is certainly crucially important within an assemblage of political concepts, including agonistic respective, critical generosity, tactics of the self, micropolitics, the visceral register, resonance machines, the capitalist axiomatic, and entangled humanism.\"\n\nConnolly was raised in the town of Flint, Michigan. His father was of one of the nearly 80,000 people who worked for General Motors in Flint during its peak years. Connolly received his B.A. from University of Michigan at Flint, and went to get his Ph.D. at University of Michigan, Ann Arbor. Connolly took up an assistant professorship at Ohio University from 1965 to 1968, then an assistant professorship at the University of Massachusetts Amherst from 1968 to 1971. He later went on to become an associate professor from 1971 to 1974 and professor from 1974 to 1985. \nConnolly took up a professorship in 1985 at Johns Hopkins University and was the Department Chair for Political Science from 1996 to 2003. He remains the Krieger-Eisenhower Professor today. Connolly has taught as a visiting professor at numerous schools including The University of Exeter, European University Institute, Oxford University, and Boston College. His book \"The Terms of Political Discourse\" won the Benjamin Evans Lippincott Award in 1999: the book is widely held to be a major work of political theory. In 2004, he won the Fulbright Award to deliver the keynote address at the Kyoto Conference in Japan. In 2013 Connolly delivered the inaugural Neal A. Maxwell Lecture in Political Theory and Contemporary Politics at the University of Utah entitled “Species Evolution and Cultural Freedom.” It was subsequently published as part of a symposium in Political Research Quarterly. Connolly is also a contributing writer to The Huffington Post and a founding member of the journal \"Theory & Event\".\n\nOver the course of the last four decades Connolly has helped to remake the theory of pluralism. Connolly challenges older theories of pluralism by arguing for pluralization as a goal rather than as a state of affairs. Connolly's argument for the \"multiplication of factions\" follows James Madison's logic in engaging groups, constituencies, and voters at both the micro and macro level. Essentially, he has shifted the theory from a conservative theory of order, to a progressive theory of democratic contestation and engagement. By engaging Nietzsche and Foucault, Connolly explores the nature of democratic contestation and its relation to pluralism. A more comprehensive look on pluralism can be found in the work \"Pluralism\".\n\nAn extensive engagement with Connolly can be found in \"The New Pluralism\" (Duke University Press, 2008), edited by David Campbell and Morton Schoolman. There Morton Schoolman, Thomas Dumm, George Kateb, Wendy Brown, Stephen White, Bonnie Honig, Roland Bleiker, Michael Shapiro, Kathy Ferguson, James Der Derian, and David Campbell engage his accounts of pluralism, cosmopolitanism, agonistic respect, subjectivity, politics and global capitalism. The book closes with an interview in which the editors invite Connolly to clarify several themes and to outline his future work. This work has been acknowledged as an authoritative text on Connolly's thought.\n\nConnolly is one of the founders of this subfield of thought in political theory. He promotes the possibility of an \"agonistic democracy\", where he finds positive ways to engage certain aspects of political conflict. Connolly proposes a positive ethos of engagement, which could be used to debate political differences. Agonism is based on contestation, but in a political space where the discourse is one of respect, rather than violence. However, Connolly is cautious on speculating whether this imagination could come true, because he claims the value of such speculation is overrated. Also, his critical challenges to John Rawls's theory of justice and Jürgen Habermas's theory on deliberative democracy have spawned a host of new literature in this area. His work \"Identity\\Difference\" contains an exhaustive look at positive possibilities via democratic contestation.\n\nConnolly has explored some of the problematic aspects of secularism. He notes the predictive failure of secularists in the 1970s, who theorized it would be the most dominant view in the public sphere, only to be proven wrong by the evangelical movement that dominated politics for two decades soon after. He writes that, \"Secularism is not merely the division between public and private realms that allows religious diversity to flourish in the latter. It can itself be a carrier of harsh exclusions. And it secretes a new definition of \"religion\" that conceals some of its most problematic practices from itself.\" Connolly has also written on the relationship between religion and faith in politics, arguing for non-believers to respect the views of the faithful, who make up a large portion of the electorate. His work, \"Why I am Not a Secularist\" explores some of these ideas in further detail. \n\n\"Echoing his early critique of value-neutrality, Connolly charges liberal secularists for failing to acknowledge... the ways their own parochial sensibilities and metaphysical investments infuse their supposedly neutral statements about a post-metaphysical public reason. Connolly calls for a post-secularist politics that admits the ubiquity of faith in order to negotiate across these embodied registers of difference rather than claim, and fail, to transcend them.\"\n\nDrawing on recent research in neuroscience on the role of affect in cognition, along with the theories of thinkers such as Baruch Spinoza, Henri Bergson, and William James, Connolly plumbs the depths of the “visceral register”, both in \"Why I am Not a Secularist\" (2000) and particularly in his 2002 book \"Neuropolitics\". \"Rationalist and deliberative theories of democracy fail to grasp the ways visceral modes of appraisal affect political thinking below the conscious register of reasons and argument alone. Moods, affects, and instincts of considerable intensity infuse both subjectivity and intersubjectivity with powerful cultural investments. The existence of this register of experience transgresses any neat compartmentalization of private spirituality from public reason. Echoing his early critique of value-neutrality, Connolly charges liberal secularists for failing to acknowledge the role of the visceral register in their own thinking and the ways their own parochial sensibilities and metaphysical investments infuse their supposedly neutral statements about a post-metaphysical public reason.\"\n\nIn his recent books Connolly has explored the relations between capitalism, inequality and ecology. In \"Capitalism and Christianity, American Style\" (2008) he explores the formation of the “evangelical-capitalist resonance machine” in the States, explaining how it has made the United States an outlier among the older capitalist states with respect to inequality and climate denialism. Reviewing the book for the \"Political Theory\" journal, University of Wisconsin-Madison political theorist Robert Fowler writes: \"Whether it is theory or practice that he addresses, Connolly always moves with an eye to enhancing certain attitudes: a disposition toward uncertainty; an openness to any approach that might give insight; a rejection of any tight system; avoidance of the danger posed by a life or a politics of resentment. Above all, Connolly lauds an attitude that recognizes the tragic in life (serving to blunt dangerous faiths in a providential God or in the blessings of the market), while at the same time eagerly welcoming a determination to change the world for the better. Finally, Connolly insists that his ardent desire for change does not negate an attitude of human \"gratitude for this world\" (p. 144) nor suck dry the ineffable \"sweetness of life\" (p. 146).\"\n\nIn \"The Fragility of Things\" (2013), he criticizes neoliberalism for its quaint focus on only one self-organizing system—markets. It is not only that markets are also subject to elite manipulation, it is also the case that neoliberal states bump into a whole series of nonhuman processes with self-organizing powers of their own. When you consider these interconnected systems together the fragility of capitalism comes into view and the irrationality of neoliberal ideals of market autonomy shines through. In a recent book, \"Facing the Planetary: Entangled Humanism and the Politics of Swarming\" (2017) Connolly reviews how the earth scientists belatedly exploded their previous notions of “planetary gradualism” in the 1980s. After discussing how climate, glacier flows, species evolution and the ocean conveyor have gone through periods of stability punctuated by rather rapid changes, he pursues a philosophy of “entangled humanism” and a “politics of swarming” to respond to the contemporary conjunction between bumpy, self-organizing planetary forces and contemporary capitalism as a geologic force.\n\nIn the last few years Connolly has pursued further how to bring the new earth sciences -- with their sharp critiques of their own earlier doctrine of planetary gradualism -- into closer contact with the humanities and the social sciences. And vice versa. He has also explored how new fascist pressures emerge in part out of disavowed constituency anxieties regarding the acceleration of the Anthropocene. \"Aspirational Fascism\" (2017) explores the bellicose reactions of the white working class to its fraught location between neoliberal strategies of extreme wealth, income and security stratification and noble pluralizing drives advanced by several other constituencies. The nature of Trump's rhetorical tactics and the power of his strategies of affective contagion are explored in that account. That study closes with a discussion of how pluralism and egalitarianism must be drawn closer together today to transcend the threat of aspirational fascism. \n\nIn \"Climate Machines, Fascist Drives and Truth\" (2019) he pulls on three threads -- the earth sciences, the changing shape of capitalism, and resurgent fascist pressures. He shows how research into earlier planetary eruptions can help to understand the accelerating pace of the Anthropocene today, how capitalism is intimately imbricated with planetary processes that also have a degree of autonomy of their own, and how climate denialism and fascist temptations work hand in hand today. Reforms urgently needed in the humanities and social sciences might help critical intellectuals and students overcome \"sociocentrism\", to grapple with these complex interinvolvements more fully, and to help reshape citizen attitudes.  \n\nIn a 2008 national survey of political theorists, based on 1,086 responses from professors at accredited, four-year colleges and universities in the United States, William E. Connolly was voted 4th on the list of \"Scholars Who Have Had the Greatest Impact on Political Theory in the Past 20 Years\", behind John Rawls, Jürgen Habermas, and Michel Foucault. Connolly was also voted 3rd on the list of \"Scholars Doing Excellent Work Today Whose Work Will Be Influential during the Next 20 Years\".\n\nUCLA political theorist Joshua F. Dienstag writes: \"Contestable or not, I will just go ahead and say it: William Connolly is the most influential political theorist writing in English today.\"\n\nPeter Price criticizes what he takes to be Connolly's attempt to redeem capitalism. He writes that \"any system in which people's ability to obtain as much work as they want, sends the economic components of the system into inflationary spirals and other harmful consequences, treating human wastage, social and cultural damage, as a regrettable but necessary by-product, is not a system that lends itself easily to redemption\". In contrast, Robert Booth Fowler, professor emeritus of political science at the University of Wisconsin, writes that to Connolly \"American capitalism and Christianity work together...at all levels of society in ways which violate [Connolly's] main goals: a dramatically more egalitarian society, an environmentally responsible nation and world, and a deep respect for human diversity\".\n\nHarvard University theorist Cornel West writes that \"William E. Connolly is a towering figure in contemporary political theory whose profound reflections on democracy, religion, and the tragic unsettle and enrich us.\"\n\nCaleb Henry, in \"The Journal of Church and State\", raises a few questions about Connolly's views. \"Can immanent naturalism present a defensible ethic? Can his morality defend against a warrior morality? Might not a Nietzsche-influenced immanent naturalist tend towards elitism rather than egalitarianism? Can Connolly authoritatively argue that no preferences transcend cultural formation of personal identity?\"\n\nBradley Macdonald has recently interviewed Connolly “In Confronting The Anthropocene and Contesting Neoliberalism” (\"New Political Science\", 2015). The interview addresses his engagements with activism and ecology from the 1970s to today, reviews his relations to other theories of political economy, debates his critique of “sociocentrism” in the human sciences, and discusses why students of politics must become much more attuned to recent work in the earth sciences.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2131894", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2131894", "title": "Johan Christian Dahl", "text": "Johan Christian Dahl\n\nJohan Christian Claussen Dahl (24 February 178814 October 1857), often known as or was a Norwegian artist who is considered the first great romantic painter in Norway, the founder of the \"golden age\" of Norwegian painting, and, by some, one of the greatest European artists of all time. He is often described as \"the father of Norwegian landscape painting\" and is regarded as the first Norwegian painter to reach a level of artistic accomplishment comparable to that attained by the greatest European artists of his day. He was also the first to acquire genuine fame and cultural renown abroad. As one critic has put it, \"J.C. Dahl occupies a central position in Norwegian artistic life of the first half of the 19th century.\n\nAlthough Dahl spent much of his life outside of Norway, his love for his country is clear in the motifs he chose for his paintings and in his extraordinary efforts on behalf of Norwegian culture generally. He was, for example, a key figure in the founding of the Norwegian National Gallery and of several other major art institutions in Norway, as well as in the preservation of Norwegian stave churches and the restoration of the Nidaros Cathedral in Trondheim and Bergenhus Fortress in Bergen.\n\nDahl came from a simple background – his father was a modest fisherman in Bergen, Norway – and he would later look back at his youth with bitterness. He regretted that he never had a \"real teacher\" in his childhood and, despite all his spectacular success, he believed that if he had been more fortunate in his birth, he would have achieved even more than he had.\n\nAs a boy, Dahl was educated by a sympathetic mentor at the Bergen Cathedral who at first thought that this bright student would make a good priest, but then, recognizing his remarkably precocious artistic ability, arranged for him to be trained as an artist. From 1803 to 1809 Dahl studied with the painter , whose workshop was the most important one in Bergen at the time. Still, Dahl looked back on his teacher as having kept him in ignorance in order to exploit him, putting him to work painting theatrical sets, portraits, and views of Bergen and its surroundings. Another mentor, Lyder Sagen, showed the aspiring artist books about art and awakened his interest in historical and patriotic subjects. It was also Sagen who took up a collection that made it possible for Dahl to go to Copenhagen in 1811 to complete his education at the academy there.\n\nAs important as Dahl's studies at the academy in Copenhagen were his experiences in the surrounding countryside and in the city's art collections. In 1812 he wrote to Sagen that the landscape artists he most wished to emulate were Ruisdahl and Everdingen, and for that reason he was studying “nature above all,” Dahl's artistic program was, then, already in place: he would become a part of the great landscape tradition, but he would also be as faithful as possible to nature itself.\n\nDahl held that a landscape painting should not just depict a specific view, but should also say something about the land's nature and character – the greatness of its past and the life and work of its current inhabitants. The mood was often idyllic, often melancholy. When he added snow to a landscape he painted in the summer, it was not to show the light and colors of snow; it was to use snow as a symbol of death. As one critic has put it, “Unlike the radically Romantic works also appearing at the time, Dahl softens his landscape, introducing elements of genre painting by imbuing it with anecdotal materials: In the background a wisp of smoke rises from a cabin, perhaps the home of the hunter on the snow-covered field.” Thanks to Sagen's recommendations and to his own personal charm, Dahl soon gained access to the leading social circles in Copenhagen.\n\nDahl took part in annual art exhibitions in Copenhagen beginning in 1812, but his real breakthrough came in 1815, when he exhibited no fewer than 13 paintings. Prince Christian Frederik of Denmark, who developed an early interest in Dahl's artistic genius and saw to it that his works were purchased for the royal collection, became a lifelong friend and patron of the artist.\nIn 1816 C. W. Eckersberg returned from abroad with his paintings of Roman settings; Dahl was impressed at once, and they became good friends and exchanged pictures. Dahl's 1817 painting \"Den Store Kro i Fredensborg\" marked the real beginning of his lifelong production of oil paintings depicting natural subjects.\n\nAfter his success in Copenhagen, Dahl realized that he wanted to live as an independent, self-supporting artist. One challenge facing him was that the academic preference of the day was for historical paintings with moral messages. Landscapes were considered the lowest kind of art, and perhaps even not as art at all, but as a purely mechanical imitation of nature. The only landscapes that could be considered art, according to the academy, were ideal, imaginary landscapes in pastoral or heroic styles. In accordance with this reigning taste, Dahl attempted to give his Danish themes a certain atmospheric character in order to lift them up above what was considered a merely commercial level. But at the same time it was his deepest wish to provide a more faithful picture of Norwegian nature than were offered by the old-fashioned, dry paintings of Haas and Lorentzen. This desire was partly motivated by homesickness and patriotism, but it was also suited to the public taste of the day for “picturesque” works.\n\nDahl traveled to Dresden in September 1818. He arrived with introductions to the city's leading citizens and to major artists such as Caspar David Friedrich, who helped him establish himself there and became his close friend. One critic has written: “Friedrich's still, meticulously executed landscapes - products of an art informed by his strict Protestant upbringing and a seeking for the divine in nature - were justifiably famous by the time he and Dahl became acquainted. We are able to see his \"Two Men Contemplating the Moon\" (1819), which ranks among his greatest works, and features two \"Rückfiguren,\" or figures seen from behind, solemnly and companionably gazing at a young sickle moon from the edge of an old forest. 'Greifswald in Moonlight' (1816–17) depicts the artist's birthplace in Pomerania, on the Baltic coast: bathed in an even, gauzy moonlight, the ancient university town assumes an almost ethereal appearance.”\n\nFriedrich was fourteen years Dahl's elder and an established artist, but the two found in each other a shared love for nature and a shared enthusiasm for a way of depicting nature that was based on the study of nature itself rather than on the academic cliches that they both profoundly despised. One writer has put it this way: “A warm and sociable character, he soon met and became friendly with the more introverted and reclusive Friedrich, recording how they once walked together in the park of the Grösser Garten among 'many lovely trees of different kinds, and the moon looked beautiful behind the dark fir trees.'”\n\nTogether with Friedrich and Carl Gustav Carus, Dahl would become one of the Dresden painters of the period who exerted a decisive influence on German Romantic painting.\n\nIn Dresden, as in Copenhagen, Dahl traveled around the area to draw subjects that could be of use to him in larger works that would be painted later in his atelier. He wrote to Prince Christian Frederik in 1818 that “most of all I am representing nature in all its freedom and wildness.” Dahl found enough material in the Dresden area to supply motifs for his paintings, but he continued to paint imaginary landscapes with forests, mountains, and waterfalls. One such painting, completed in 1819, entitled \"Norsk fjellandskap med elv\" (Mountainous Norwegian landscape with river”), garnered great attention among younger artists who considered the striking natural quality of the painting a breath of fresh air on Dresden's stagnant art scene. Another monumental waterfall painting, completed the next year, was lavished with praised by the critic for Kunstblatt who said that Dahl was greater than Jacob van Ruisdael. Dahl was accepted into the Dresden academy in 1820.\n\nPrince Christian Frederik wrote to Dahl in 1820 from Italy and invited him to join him at the Gulf of Naples. Dahl was at the time courting a young woman named Emilie von Bloch, but felt he should take the prince up on his offer, so he married Emilie quickly and traveled to Italy the next day. He ended up spending 10 months in Italy. Though he missed his bride, the sojourn was a decisive factor in his artistic development. It was in Italy, with its strong southern light, that Dahl's art truly flowered. It forced him to see nature plain, without the mediation of the old masters' renderings of light and color.\n\nDahl went to Rome in February 1821. He spent a great deal of time visiting museums, meeting other artists, and painting pictures to sell. In addition to painting sights in Rome and pictures of the Gulf of Naples, he painted landscapes inspired by the mountains of Norway. Dahl said that not until he was in Rome did he truly appreciate Norwegian nature. In June 1821 Dahl returned north to Emilie and a quiet life of family and painting.\n\nDahl quickly became a member of Dresden's leading circles of poets, artists, and scientists, among them the archeologist C. A. Böttiger, publisher of Artistisches Notizenblatt, who ran a major article on Dahl in 1822.\n\nAs a member of the academy, Dahl always dedicated his time to young artists who sought him out. In 1824 he and Friedrich were named “extraordinary professors” who had no chair but who received a regular salary. In 1823 Dahl moved in with Friedrich, so that many of his students, such as Knud Baade, Peder Balke, and Thomas Fearnley, were equally influenced by both artists. “Well before their meeting,” writes one critic, “Dahl had also painted a number of 'moonlights' and, travelling in Europe, he was in the Bay of Naples in 1821 when Mount Vesuvius was active. Here he painted 'Boats on the Beach Near Naples', where fishing crafts lie at anchor in the calm, shimmering waters with the twin peaks of the mountain smoking and flaming behind. Predictably, after his close association with Friedrich began—the two families shared a house in Dresden from 1823—he was considerably influenced by him, but his own more spontaneous and painterly style soon prevailed. Clients sometimes commissioned pictures from them both, a tranquil coastal scene by Friedrich to pair with a more stormy subject from Dahl.”\n\nDahl never formed a “school” around himself, but rather preferred for his students to cultivate their own styles; it was against his principles and his respect for artistic freedom to try to inhibit his students' individuality. It was this impulse toward individuality that later caused him to turn down an offer of a permanent chair at the academy – he didn't want to feel compelled to show up for class when he was busy working on a painting.\nDahl continued his studies of nature in the area around Dresden when he had the time, or on longer trips which provided him with themes for his paintings. But most often he painted the view of the Elbe outside his windows in various kinds of light. Like John Constable, Dahl felt that the sky was an important part of a landscape painting, and he never grew tired of watching the clouds move over the flat plain. One critic has compared two paintings of Friedrich and Dahl: “In...Dahl's 'Mother and Child by the Sea', there are echoes of Friedrich's 'Woman by the Sea' (1818). Whereas in Friedrich's work a woman dressed for the windy weather sits idly watching five fishing boats sailing past, in Dahl's picture, there seems to be a more personal note, with echoes of his own upbringing in a seafaring community, as the mother and small child eagerly await the return of the little ship from the sea.” The same critic has written about one of his paintings of Dresden: “Dahl also commemorated the magnificent Baroque buildings of his adopted city, and a version of his \"View of Dresden by Moonlight\" (1838) has travelled from the National Museum of Art, Architecture and Design in Oslo. This small picture, measuring only 18.5 x 34.5 cm, shows the dome of the Frauenkirche and the tower of the Hofkirche dominating the skyline; silvers and deep blue combine to give it a wonderful jewel-like effect, together with a certain elegiac quality, perhaps indicative of the artist's awareness that his long friendship with Friedrich was nearing an end.” \n\nAs Dahl wrote in 1828 to the director of the Dresden academy, he found the area around Dresden useful for nature studies, but the “real thing” was always missing; that was something he could only find in his mountainous homeland. He viewed himself as a “more Nordic painter” with a “love for seacoasts, mountains, waterfalls, sailboats, and pictures of the sea in daylight and moonlight.” He longed to return to Norway, but not until 1826 was he able to make a journey home.\n\nHe made subsequent trips to Norway in 1834, 1839, 1844, and 1850, mostly exploring and painting the mountains, leading to the monumental works \"Fortundalen\" (1836) and \"Stalheim\" (1842). During his visits to Norway he received “an enthusiastic welcome as a painter of renown.”\n\nA critic notes Dahl's late stylistic changes: “In his late \"Fjord at Sunset\" (1850), based on studies made earlier, free and adventurous brush strokes represent the cloud-swept sky and broken surface of the water. Here he has moved far away from the purity and intensity of Friedrich's oeuvre.” \nIn 1827 Emilie Dahl died in childbirth while having their fourth child, and two years later two of the older children died of scarlet fever. In January 1830 Dahl married his student Amalie von Bassewitz, but she, too, died in childbirth in December of that same year. Dahl was crushed, and many months passed before he was able to paint again. Some years later this youngest child also died, leaving Dahl with two surviving children, Caroline and Siegwald. \nDahl's trip to Norway in 1850 would be his last. He was aging and weak, but continued to paint landscapes in the mountains. This last journey to his homeland resulted in several magnificent works, including \"Måbødalen\", \"Fra Stugunøset\", and \"Hjelle i Valdres\".\n\nDahl was also among the founding fathers of the National Gallery of Norway (Norwegian: Nasjonalgalleriet), now the National Museum of Art, Architecture and Design, and donated his own art collection to the institution. Together with Johan Sebastian Welhaven, Frederik Stang and Henrik Heftye, he also founded the Art Society in Oslo (Oslo Kunstforening).\n\nDahl died after a brief illness and was buried on 17 October 1857 in Dresden. In 1902, a statue of Dahl by Norwegian sculptor Ambrosia Tønnesen (1859–1948), was erected on the facade of the West Norway Museum of Decorative Art in Bergen. In 1934, his remains brought back to Norway and buried in the cemetery of St. Jacob's Church (Sankt Jakob kirke) in Bergen.\n\nJ.C. Dahl occupies a central position in Norwegian artistic life of the first half of the 19th century. His Romantic yet naturalistic interpretations of Norwegian scenery were greatly admired in Norway as well as on the European continent, particularly in Denmark and Germany.\n\nDahl had both the Order of Vasa and Order of St. Olav bestowed on him by the King of Norway and Sweden. He also received the Order of Dannebrog from Denmark. The three honors testify to his extraordinary cultural impact throughout Scandinavia.\n\nMany of his works may be seen in Dresden, notably a large picture titled \"Norway and Storm at Sea\". The Bergen Kunstmuseum in Bergen, Norway, contains several of his more prominent works, including \"Måbødalen\" (1851), \"Fra Stedje i Sogn\" (1836), \"Hjelle i Valdres\" (1850), \"Lysekloster\" (1827), \"Stedje i Sogn\" (1836) and \"Bjerk i storm\" (1849).\n\nThe National Museum of Art, Architecture and Design - The National Gallery, Oslo has a large collection of his works, including \"Vinter ved Sognefjorden\" (1827), \"Castellammare\" (1828), \"Skibbrudd ved den norske kyst\" (1832), \"Hellefoss\" (1838), \"Fra Stalheim\" (1842), \"Fra Fortundalen\" (1842) and \"Stugunøset på Filefjell\" (1851). Significant works (with their titles in Norwegian) include the following:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2131899", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2131899", "title": "Črna", "text": "Črna\n\nČrna may refer to several places in Slovenia: \n\n"}
{"id": "2131901", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2131901", "title": "Charles Pfizer", "text": "Charles Pfizer\n\nKarl Gustav Pfizer (March 22, 1824 – October 19, 1906), known as Charles Pfizer, was a German-born chemist who founded the Pfizer pharmaceutical company with his cousin Charles F. Erhart in 1849 as Charles Pfizer & Co.\n\nPfizer was born in Ludwigsburg, Kingdom of Württemberg (now Germany) to Karl Frederick Pfizer and Caroline (\"née\" Klotz) and emigrated to the United States in October 1848. The next year, he borrowed $2,500 from his father to buy a building in Williamsburg, Brooklyn where they produced santonin, used to expel parasitic worms, and expanded into other chemicals.\n\nPfizer married Anna Hausch in 1859 in his hometown of Ludwigsburg. They had six children, five of whom survived to adulthood: Ann (died 1876), Charles Jr (1860–1928), Gustavus (1861–1944), Emile (1864–1941), Helen Julia (born 1866, who married Sir Frederick Duncan, 2nd Baronet), and Alice (who married Baron Bachofen von Echt of Austria).\n\nPfizer's partner, cousin, and brother-in-law Charles F. Erhart died in 1891, and their partnership agreement stipulated that the surviving partner could buy the other's share of the company for half its inventory value. Pfizer promptly exercised this option, paying his partner's heirs $119,350 for Erhart's half of the business. He remained as the head of the company until 1900, when it was incorporated and Charles Pfizer, Jr. became its first president. When Charles Jr. retired, his brother Emil succeeded him.\n\nPfizer died at his summer home \"Lindgate\" in Newport, Rhode Island; his year-round home was in Clinton Hill, Brooklyn. His death came a few weeks after a fall down stairs in which he broke an arm and was otherwise badly injured.\n\n"}
{"id": "2131904", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2131904", "title": "Nick Bockwinkel", "text": "Nick Bockwinkel\n\nNicholas Warren Francis Bockwinkel (December 6, 1934 – November 14, 2015) was an American professional wrestler. He was best known for his appearances with the Minneapolis, Minnesota-based American Wrestling Association (AWA) from 1970 to 1987, where he held the AWA World Heavyweight Championship on four occasions and the AWA World Tag Team Championship on three.\n\nBockwinkel was recognised for his exceptional technical wrestling ability and mastery of in-ring psychology. He was also known for his even-toned, articulate promos, which distinguished him from many of his contemporaries. He was inducted into the Wrestling Observer Newsletter Hall of Fame in 1996 and the WWE Hall of Fame in 2007.\n\nBockwinkel was born to Warren Bockwinkel – himself a professional wrestler – and Helen (née Crnkovich) Bockwinkel in St. Louis, Missouri on December 6, 1934. He attended the University of Oklahoma on a football scholarship, playing for the Oklahoma Sooners until sustaining a knee injury that ended his football career and cost him his scholarship.\n\nBockwinkel was trained to wrestle by his father and Lou Thesz, debuting in 1955.\n\nWhen he was first breaking into the business, Bockwinkel served as the driver for Yukon Eric, taking him to various cities throughout the Eastern and Northeastern United States. He later commented that the experience, \"was so smart. [...] Lots of ways to learn about this business.\" After training to become a professional wrestler with his father Warren, a regional star in the 1940s, and Lou Thesz, he spent the early years of his career as part of a tag team with his father. At the age of 16, he had his debut match against Thesz. He won his first major singles title in 1963, defeating Tony Borne for the NWA Pacific Northwest Heavyweight Championship. He also held several singles and tag team titles in Hawaii and California.\n\nIn the late 1950s to early 1960s Bockwinkel wrestled as a baby face in the San Francisco NWA territory Big Time Wrestling owned by legendary promoter Roy Shire. In 1958 Bockwinkel (wrestling under the name Dick Warren) teamed with Ramón Torres and won the NWA World Tag Team Championship on April 28, 1958 in Sacramento. They held the titles for two months before losing them to Hombre Montana and Tiny Mills on June 27 in San Jose. Just 17 days later, on July 14, Bockwinkel and Torres regained the titles from Montana and Mills once again in Sacramento. Bockwinkel would go on to win the tag team titles a third time, using his real name, on November 10, 1962, teaming with Wilbur Snyder and defeating the team of legendary hall of fame wrestlers Mitsu Arakawa and Kinji Shibuya at the famous Cow Palace in San Francisco.\nBockwinkel and Snyder held the titles for five months before losing then to Art and Stan Nielsen.\n\nIt was during his time at Georgia Championship Wrestling in Atlanta, Georgia that Bockwinkel developed into a main event star. He had previously been a heroic character, but began a transition to being a villain during a feud with NWA World Heavyweight Champion Dory Funk, Jr. Funk, Jr. later referred to Bockwinkel as \"One of the best wrestling challengers for the belt. [...] He was very technical, and put a lot of thought into his interviews, his talk, his work in the ring, his persona.\"\n\nIn 1970, Bockwinkel joined the American Wrestling Association (AWA), where he formed a team with wrestler Ray Stevens and manager Bobby Heenan. Together, they won the AWA World Tag Team Championship three times, the first in 1972. They defended the belts against such opponents as The Crusher, Dick the Bruiser, Billy Robinson, and Verne Gagne. The team eventually broke up after Stevens attacked Heenan when the latter praised himself and failed to comment on Stevens during an interview. Bockwinkel also teamed with Pat Patterson on occasion.\n\nBockwinkel became known for his articulate wrestling interviews. \"I used to use the four, five or six syllable words as best I could,\" he was quoted as saying in the book \"The Pro Wrestling Hall of Fame: The Heels\". \"If I ran across one I didn't know, I had a little dictionary. I would have this little dictionary, with 70 or 80 words, that I would always be perusing. I had it with me all the time. Automatically, some of these words just starting coming to me in my interviews because I was familiar with them.\"\n\nWith Heenan still as his manager, Bockwinkel won the first of many AWA World Heavyweight Championships on November 8, 1975 at the age of 40, ending Verne Gagne's seven-year reign. As AWA Champion, Bockwinkel had feuds with Billy Robinson, Dick the Bruiser, The Crusher, Tito Santana, Mad Dog Vachon, Jerry Lawler, Otto Wanz, Mr. Saito, Jim Brunzell, Greg Gagne, Verne Gagne and Hulk Hogan. Bockwinkel was involved in the first ever AWA versus World Wide Wrestling Federation (WWWF) World Title Unification match, wrestling WWWF Champion, Bob Backlund, to a double count-out, on March 25, 1979, in Toronto.\n\nBockwinkel's first reign lasted for 1716 days and ended on July 19, 1980 when he was defeated by Verne Gagne. Shortly after regaining the AWA World title, Gagne announced his retirement from professional wrestling, and the AWA Heavyweight Championship was awarded back to Bockwinkel on May 19, 1981. This move infuriated wrestling fans throughout the AWA, and it solidified Bockwinkel as one of the most despised wrestlers in the world.\n\nPerhaps the biggest controversy surrounding Bockwinkel and his title reign involved a series of matches with Hulk Hogan, whom Gagne signed after Hogan left the World Wrestling Federation in 1981. In June 1982, Hogan defeated Bockwinkel by pinfall in St. Paul, Minnesota to capture the AWA World Title, but AWA President Stanley Blackburn reversed the decision and returned the title to Bockwinkel, who went on to lose it to Otto Wanz and regain it with Heenan's help in the span of two months. Hogan, in the meantime, grew tired of the politics surrounding Bockwinkel and the world title and departed the AWA to return to the WWF, where he became a star and helped the company become a worldwide brand.\n\nOn February 22, 1984, Jumbo Tsuruta defeated Bockwinkel to capture the AWA World Heavyweight Championship in a match where Terry Funk was a guest referee. On an AWA card, Bockwinkel wrestled NWA World Champion Ric Flair for the NWA title on January 16, 1986 at the Winnipeg Arena; the bout ended in a double count out. Bockwinkel last held the AWA World Championship in 1987, at the age of 52. He became popular in a feud against then-AWA champion Stan Hansen. When Hansen failed to appear for a title defense, Bockwinkel won the title by forfeit. Hansen had quit the AWA from that point. Months later he dropped the championship to another second generation wrestler, Curt Hennig, at SuperClash. The match ended in controversial fashion due to interference by Larry Zbyszko, who had handed a roll of coins to Hennig to use on Bockwinkel. Bockwinkel retired in 1987, ending a career that spanned four decades. In one of his final matches as an active competitor, he paid Zbyszko back for costing him the AWA World title by pinning him on an episode of \"AWA Championship Wrestling\" on ESPN after knocking him out with a roll of coins.\n\nAfter departing AWA, Bockwinkel worked as a road agent for the World Wrestling Federation, also serving as a color commentator for occasional televised events after having been introduced at an arena show by Bobby Heenan as his replacement for the night. He was released in 1989 due to budget cuts. He returned to the ring in 1993 at Slamboree: A Legends' Reunion. The card was promoted by World Championship Wrestling (WCW) but featured veteran wrestlers from all over the country. Bockwinkel wrestled former NWA World Champion Dory Funk, Jr. to a time limit draw as part of the undercard. In 1994, Bockwinkel became the on-screen commissioner of WCW. He was reunited on the program with Bobby Heenan but their former partnership in AWA was never mentioned.\n\nIn 2000, he and Yoshiaki Fujiwara were the commissioners for a short-lived shoot style promotion, the Japan Pro Wrestling Association, but as the shoot-style market in Japan had been low since the collapse of UWF International, the wrestlers on it moved to other promotions. Bockwinkel was the President of the Cauliflower Alley Club until stepping down in May 2014 due to health reasons.\n\nOn March 31, 2007, he was inducted in the WWE Hall of Fame by his former manager Bobby Heenan.\n\nBockwinkel made an appearance on WWE's \"Raw\" on March 29, 2010, as part of Legends lumberjack match between Christian and Ted Dibiase.\n\nBockwinkel was known for his technical wrestling ability and in-ring psychology. Bob Backlund wrote in his autobiography that \"Nick had a great head for the game, a wonderful sense of ring psychology, and an uncanny ability to use his intelligence and cockiness to get under the people's skin. He was a terrific representative for the AWA and was the key player in the success of the AWA for a long time.\" Backlund goes on to say, \"He was a very intelligent, well-spoken, and cocky heel, and his in-ring skills were right up there with the very best in the business.\" In the book \"50 Greatest Professional Wrestlers of All Time: The Definitive Shoot\", author Larry Matysik lists Bockwinkel as number 18, writing \"He was an athlete, he could wrestle, and his psychology was second to none.\"\n\nIn addition, he was also known for his calm, charismatic, articulate promos, which distinguished him from many of his contemporaries. In 2008, Chris Jericho based his new villainous wrestling persona on Bockwinkel. In his autobiography \"The Best in the World\" Jericho wrote, \"The WWE had recently released an AWA retrospective DVD, and while watching it, I remembered how great a heel Bockwinkel was. He wore suits for all his interviews and used ten-dollar words that went over the average fans' heads, pissing them off markedly. Here was this pompous blowhard using the fancy talk and wearing the fancy suits, claiming to be the best because he was the World Champion, which was the truth.\"\n\nIn 1968, Bockwinkel appeared as a contestant on a prime-time version of the NBC game show \"Hollywood Squares\", winning a Pontiac Firebird, a deluxe kitchen set, and $1300 in cash. He played Harry in the episode \"Savage Sunday\" in the show \"Hawaii Five-O\". Bockwinkel also played a wrestler in an episode of the 1960s television series \"The Monkees\".\n\nOn June 22, 1957, Bockwinkel married Susan Tranchitella, with whom he had two daughters: Johnna (born October 11, 1958) and Nikki (born April 30, 1961). The couple divorced in 1967. Bockwinkel remarried in 1972 to Darlene Hampp, with the marriage lasting until his death. The couple lived together in Las Vegas, Nevada.\n\nIn November 2007, Bockwinkel underwent triple bypass heart surgery.\n\nIn 2007, he was elected President of the Cauliflower Alley Club, a non-profit organization. In 2013, Ric Flair told Stone Cold Steve Austin on his podcast that Bockwinkel had Alzheimer's disease. Bockwinkel's wife Darlene denied Flair's claim, but did acknowledge that he had health problems which she wanted to keep private. In August 2014, Bockwinkel stepped down from his position as Cauliflower Alley Club president due to his declining health. He was replaced by former wrestler B. Brian Blair. At the Cauliflower Alley Club reunion in 2015 he appeared frail and his wife said he was making his final public appearance due to dementia and heart issues.\n\nBockwinkel died from undisclosed causes on the evening of November 14, 2015. His remains were cremated in Las Vegas and a memorial mass was held at St. Joseph Croatian Catholic Church in his hometown of St. Louis, Missouri on November 21, 2015. He was survived by his wife, his two children from his first marriage, two grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2131909", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2131909", "title": "Vihiga", "text": "Vihiga\n\nVihiga is a town in Kenya located on the eastern side of the Kakamega Forest. \nThe town is along the road between Kisumu and Kakamega, and only five kilometres north of the equator. Vihiga bears the same name as its county, Vihiga County. Vihiga municipality has a population of 118,696 (2009 census).\n\nVihiga municipality has six wards; two of them (Central Maragoli and Wamuluma) belong to Vihiga Constituency while the remaining four wards (Chavakali, Izawa, Lyaduywa and North Maragoli) are part of the Sabatia Constituency. In the 2002 general elections, all six civic seats were won by the National Rainbow Coalition.\nMaragoli are the dominant ethnic group in the area and the town is also known as Maragoli. Tiriki, Idakho and Banyore are other ethnic groups in this locale. As a county, Vihiga has its administrative headquarters in Mbale township, located within the Vihiga municipality. Vihiga is also a name of one of its divisions. Other divisions include Sabatia, Hamisi, Lwanda and Emuhaya. The people living in Vihiga primarily identify themselves as \"Maragoli\" and speak a language called Maragoli. This language is quite distinct from other Luhya ethnic groups and was the first Luhya language that was used to translate the Bible. The majority of the Maragoli people were primarily converted into the Quaker denomination of Christians, which is practiced to this day. \n"}
{"id": "2131938", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2131938", "title": "Bhakra Dam", "text": "Bhakra Dam\n\nBhakra Dam is a concrete gravity dam on the Sutlej River in Bilaspur, Himachal Pradesh in northern India. The dam forms the Gobind Sagar reservoir.\n\nThe dam, located at a gorge near the (now submerged) upstream Bhakra village in Bilaspur district of Himachal Pradesh of height 226 m. The length of the dam (measured from the road above it) is 518.25 m and the width is 9.1 m. Its reservoir known as \"Gobind Sagar\" stores up to 9.34 billion cubic metres of water. The 90 km long reservoir created by the Bhakra Dam is spread over an area of 168.35 km. In terms of quantity of water, it is the third largest reservoir in India, the first being Indira Sagar dam in Madhya Pradesh with capacity of 12.22 billion cu m and second Nagarjunasagar Dam.\n\nDescribed as \"New Temple of Resurgent India\" by Jawaharlal Nehru, the first prime minister of India, the dam attracts tourists from all over India. Bhakra dam is 15 km from Nangal city and 20 km from Naina Devi town.\n\nNangal Dam is another dam in Punjab downstream of Bhakra Dam. However, sometimes both the dams together are called Bhakra-Nangal Dam though they are two separate dams.it is one of the most significant dams.\n\nThe Bhakra-Nangal multipurpose dams were among the earliest river valley development schemes undertaken by India after independence though the project had been conceived long before India became a free nation. The agreement for this project had been signed by the then Punjab Revenue Minister, Sir Chhotu Ram in November 1944 with Raja of Bilaspur and finalised the project plan on 8 January 1945. Preliminary works commenced in 1946. Construction of the dam started in 1948; Jawaharlal Nehru poured the first bucket of concrete into the dry riverbed of the Sutlej on 17 November 1955, as a symbolic initiation of the work. Addressing a gathering there, he said, \"This is a gift to the people of India and to the future generations from the workers who built this dam\", calling for \"rais[ing] a memorial\" at the dam \"in honour\" of the workers. The dam was completed by the end of 1963. Successive stages were completed by the early 1970s.\n\nInitially, the construction of the dam was started by Sir Louis Dane, the Lieutenant Governor of Punjab. But the project got delayed and was restarted soon after independence under the chief architect Rai Bahadur Kunwar Sen Gupta. It was financed entirely by the union government. The Control Board for the project included representatives from union government, and of the governments of Punjab, Patiala and East Punjab States Union, Rajasthan, Bilaspur and Himachal Pradesh. The organisation evolved for the purpose of design and construction was divided into three parts. The Designs Directorate provided the designs and drawings. The Construction and Plant Design Directorate was to look after its execution and installing of the plant, while the Directorate of Inspection and Control ensured that the specifications are accorded to safety requirements were met.\n\nIn October 1963, at the ceremony to mark the dedication of the Bhakra–Nangal project to the nation, Prime Minister Nehru said, \"This dam has been built with the unrelenting toil of man for the benefit of mankind and therefore is worthy of worship. May you call it a Temple or a Gurdwara or a Mosque, it inspires our admiration and reverence\". On 22 October 2013, the Government of India approved the release of a commemorative stamp to mark the 50th anniversary of the Bhakra Dam. As how successful India was at that time that it was the only dam in Asia which could produce 1500 MW power. \n\nAlso, these are multipurpose projects.\n\nThe dam, at 741 ft (226 m), is one of the highest gravity dams in the world (compared to USA's largest Oroville Dam at 770 ft). The 166 km² Gobindsagar Reservoir, named after Guru Gobind Singh, is created by this dam which is the third largest reservoir in India the first being Indira Sagar Dam and second Nagarjunasagar Dam. The river Satluj used to flow through a narrow gorge between two hills, Naina Devi ki dhar and Ramgarh ki dhar, and the site was chosen to dam the river. The large map http://www.lib.utexas.edu/maps/ams/india/nh-43-03.jpg shows the location of the original Bhakra village that was submerged in the lake formed behind the dam.\n\nBhakra dam was part of the larger multipurpose Bhakra Nangal Project whose aims were to prevent floods in the Satluj-Beas river valley, to provide irrigation to adjoining states and also to provide hydro-electricity. It also became a tourist spot for the tourists during later years because of its huge size and uniqueness.\n\nIt also has four spillway gates that are only used when the reservoir exceeds the maximum allowed level.\n\nNangal dam is a barrage dam that is 10 km downstream of Bhakra dam\n\nThe dam holds excess waters during the monsoon and provides a regulated release during the year. It also prevents damage due to monsoon floods. The Bhakra Canal fed by this dam provides irrigation to 10 million acres of (40,000 km²) of fields in Punjab, Haryana, and Rajasthan.\n\nWater flows from Bhakra Dam downstream Nangal dam where it is controlled and released into Nangal Hydel Channel that later becomes Bhakra Main Line after Ganguwal and Kotla power plants. The Bhakra main line is a canal that mostly supplies irrigation water to the state of Haryana.\n\nBhakra Dam has ten power generators with five on each side. Generators for the left power house were originally supplied by Hitachi, Japan and upgraded to the present capacity by Sumitomo, Hitachi and Andritz. Generators for the right side were originally supplied by Soviet Union and later upgraded to the present capacity by Russia. The two power houses have a total capacity of 1325 MW. The left power house contain 3 x 108 MW and 2 x 126 MW Francis turbines while the right has 5 x 157 MW.\n\nThe power generated at Bhakra Dam is distributed among partner states of Himachal Pradesh, Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan, Chandigarh and Delhi.\n\nThree additional power plants are on the two canals Nangal Hydel Channel and Anandpur Sahib Hydel Channel that originate from Nangal dam. Their generation capacities are : Ganguwal - 77.65 MW, Kotla - 77.65 MW and Anandpur - 134 MW.\n\nThe reservoir of the Dam, Gobind Sagar, homes fishes of different species including endangered Mahseer. Commercial fishing by Local fisherman is also common in Gobind Sagar.\n\nBhakra Management Board (BMB) was constituted in 1966 for the administration, maintenance and operation of Bhakra Nangal Project from 1 October 1967. It manages the operation of both the dams. Its members are appointed by the government of India and by the states of Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan, Himachal Pradesh, Delhi, and Chandigarh. Bhakra Management Board was renamed Bhakra Beas Management Board (BBMB) on 15 May 1976 to also manage dams on the river Beas. Since then the Bhakra Beas Management Board is engaged in the regulation of the supply of water and power from Bhakra Nangal Project and Beas Projects to the states of Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan, Himachal Pradesh, Delhi, and Chandigarh government.\n\nThe Bhakra Beas Management Board regulates, operates and manages Bhakra Dam, Dehar Hydroelectric Project, Pong dam, Ganguwal and Kotla power stations.\n\nBeing the fourth largest dam in India after Tehri Dam, it attracts a large number of tourists who visit its reservoir and attractive location. However, for security reasons, visitors to Bhakra-Nangal Dam has been banned since 2009. but The ban has been lifted now.\n\nThe large reservoir created by the dam displaced a large population from the district of Bilaspur. About 371 villages were submerged. After 50 years of its completion, there is still a question of full resettlement of oustees.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2131951", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2131951", "title": "Thioglycolic acid", "text": "Thioglycolic acid\n\nThioglycolic acid (TGA) is the organic compound HSCHCOH. TGA is often called mercaptoacetic acid (MAA). It contains both a thiol (mercaptan) and carboxylic acid functional groups. It is a colorless liquid with a strongly unpleasant odor. TGA is miscible with polar organic solvents. \n\nTGA is used as a chemical depilatory and is still used as such, especially in salt forms, including calcium thioglycolate and sodium thioglycolate. TGA is the precursor to ammonium thioglycolate that is used for permanents. TGA and its derivatives break the disulfide bonds in the cortex of hair. One reforms these broken bonds in giving hair a \"perm.\" Alternatively and more commonly, the process leads to depilation as is done commonly in leather processing. It is also used as an acidity indicator, manufacturing of thioglycolates, and in bacteriology for preparation of thioglycolate media. In fact thioglycolysis reactions used on condensed tannins to study their structure.\n\nOrganotin derivatives of thioglycolic acid isooctyl esters are widely used as stabilizers for PVC. These species have the formula RSn(SCHCOCH).\n\nApplying TGA can soften nails and then fix pincer nails in the correct position. \n\nSodium thioglycolate is a component of a special bacterial growth media : thioglycolate broth. It is also used in so-called \"fallout remover\" or \"wheel cleaner\" to remove iron oxide residue from rims. Ferrous iron combines with thioglycolate to form red-violet ferric thioglycolate.\n\nThioglycolic acid is prepared by reaction of sodium or potassium chloracetate with alkali metal hydrosulfide in aqueous medium. It can be also prepared via the Bunte salt obtained by reaction of sodium thiosulfate with chloroacetic acid:\n\nThioglycolic acid is about 100 times stronger acid than acetic acid with a pKa of 3.83:\nThe second ionization has a pKa of 9.3:\n\nThioglycolic acid is a reducing agent, especially at higher pH. It oxidizes to the corresponding disulfide (2-[(carboxymethyl)disulfanyl]acetic acid or dithiodiglycolic acid):\n\nThioglycolic acid, usually as its dianion, forms complexes with metal ions. Such complexes have been used for the detection of iron, molybdenum, silver, and tin. Thioglycolic acid reacts with diethyl acetylmalonate to form acetylmercaptoacetic acid and diethyl malonate, the reducing agent in conversion of Fe(III) to Fe(II).\n\nScientist David R. Goddard, in the early 1930s, identified TGA as a useful reagent for reducing the disulfide bonds in proteins, including keratin (hair protein), while studying why protease enzymes could not easily digest hair, nails, feathers, and such. He realized that while the disulfide bonds, which stabilize proteins by cross-linking, were broken, the structures containing these proteins could be reshaped easily, and that they would retain this shape after the disulfide bonds were allowed to re-form. TGA was developed in the 1940s for use as a chemical depilatory.\n\nThe LD (oral, rat) is 261 mg/kg, LC inhalation for rat is 21 mg/m for 4 h, and LD dermal for rabbit is 848 mg/kg. Mercaptoacetic acid in hair waving and depilatory products containing other mercapto acids can be identified by using thin-layer chromatography and gas chromatography. MAA also has been identified by using potentiometric titration with silver nitrate solution.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2131956", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2131956", "title": "Aero VIP (Argentina)", "text": "Aero VIP (Argentina)\n\nAerovip is an airline based in Buenos Aires, Argentina (not to be confused with Aero VIP of Uruguay). It operates regional passenger services. Its main base is Ezeiza International Airport, Buenos Aires.\n\nOperations were suspended in November 2004, with the airline in debt, but restarted operations in 2009. However, the airline ceased operations again in November 2010.\n\nThe airline was established on 15 March 1999 and started operations on 23 June 1999. It operated for a time as LAPA VIP and as ARG Express until sold back to its original owner. The airline was owned by Sebastian Agote. Operations were suspended in November 2004.\n\nTeba, which held the concession for the Buenos Aires bus station, acquired a controlling stake in Aerovip in December 2004, buying shares representing 80% of the outstanding equity that belonged to Sebastian Agote. The other 20% will remain in hands of Eduardo Eurnekian, head of airport concessionaire Aeropuertos Argentina 2000. Aerovip has not been flying since October 3, 2004 and has debts of over US$9 million. In a meeting with the Aeronautic Union (APA),\nthe new owners committed to resume flights by December 20, 2004 and maintain the current payroll.\n\nIn 2005 it was announced that LAN Airlines would absorb LAFSA and Aero VIP into LAN Argentina. Pilots, stewards and maintenance personnel of LAN Argentina went on strike in November 2005 to protest at management’s failure to hire 150 former workers of Aero VIP.\n\nIn 2009 the Leadgate group, owner 75% of the shares of the Uruguayan airline Pluna, buys Aerovip. The Argentine airline will restart operations in 2010 a former Pluna Bombardier CRJ-900. In November of the same year, Aerovip was absorbed by PLUNA.\n\nAerovip operated the following services (at January 2005):\n\n\nThe Aerovip fleet includes the following aircraft (as of 18 February 2010) :\n\nThe aircraft was delivered in 2009, but deposed in 2010\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2131962", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2131962", "title": "Feshbach resonance", "text": "Feshbach resonance\n\nIn physics, a Feshbach resonance can occur upon collision of two slow atoms, when they temporarily stick together forming an unstable compound with short lifetime (so-called resonance). It is a feature of many-body systems in which a bound state is achieved if the coupling(s) between at least one internal degree of freedom and the reaction coordinates, which lead to dissociation, vanish. The opposite situation, when a bound state is not formed, is a shape resonance. It is named after Herman Feshbach, a physicist at MIT.\n\nFeshbach resonances have become important in the study of the cold atoms systems, both the Fermi gases as well as the Bose–Einstein condensates (BECs). In the context of scattering processes in many-body systems, the Feshbach resonance occurs when the energy of a bound state of an interatomic potential is equal to the kinetic energy of a colliding pair of atoms, which have hyperfine structure coupled via Coulomb or exchange interactions. In experimental settings, the Feshbach resonances provide a way to vary interaction strength between atoms in the cloud by changing scattering length, a, of elastic collisions. For atomic species that possess these resonances (like K and K), it is possible to vary the interaction strength by applying a uniform magnetic field. Among many uses, this tool has served to explore the region of the BEC (of fermionic molecules) to the BCS (of weakly interacting fermion-pairs) transition in Fermi clouds. For the BECs, Feshbach resonances have been used to study a spectrum of systems from the non-interacting ideal Bose gases to the unitary regime of interactions.\n\nConsider a general quantum scattering event between two particles. In this reaction, there are two reactant particles denoted by \"A\" and \"B\", and two product particles denoted by \" A' \" and \" B' \". For the case of a reaction (such as a nuclear reaction), we may denote this scattering event by\n\nThe combination of the species and quantum states of the two reactant particles before or after the scattering event is referred to as a reaction channel. Specifically, the species and states of \"A\" and \"B\" constitute the \"entrance channel\", while the types and states of \" A' \" and \" B' \" constitute the \"exit channel\". An energetically accessible reaction channel is referred to as an \"open channel\", whereas a reaction channel forbidden by energy conservation is referred to as a \"closed channel.\"\n\nConsider the interaction of two particles \"A\" and \"B\" in an entrance channel \"C\". The positions of these two particles are given by formula_3 and formula_4, respectively. The interaction energy of the two particles will usually depend only on the magnitude of the separation formula_5, and this function, sometimes referred to as a potential energy curve, is denoted by formula_6. Often, this potential will have a pronounced minimum and thus admit bound states.\n\nThe total energy of the two particles in the entrance channel is\n\nwhere formula_8 denotes the total kinetic energy of the relative motion (center-of-mass motion plays no role in the two-body interaction), formula_9 is the contribution to the energy from couplings to external fields, and formula_10 represents a vector of one or more parameters such as magnetic field or electric field. We consider now a second reaction channel, denoted by \"D\", which is closed for large values of \"R\". Let this potential curve formula_11 admit a bound state with energy formula_12.\n\nA Feshbach resonance occurs when\n\nfor some range of parameter vectors formula_14. When this condition is met, then any coupling between channel \"C\" and channel \"D\" can give rise to significant mixing between the two channels; this manifests itself as a drastic dependence of the outcome of the scattering event on the parameter or parameters that control the energy of the entrance channel.\n\nA virtual state, or unstable state is a bound or transient state which can decay into a free state or relax at some finite rate. This state may be the metastable state of a certain class of Feshbach resonance, \"A special case of a Feshbach-type resonance occurs when the energy level lies near the very top of the potential well. Such a state is called 'virtual'\" and may be further contrasted to a shape resonance depending on the angular momentum. Because of their transient existence, they can require special techniques for analysis and measurement, for example.\n\n"}
{"id": "2131978", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2131978", "title": "John Nash (basketball)", "text": "John Nash (basketball)\n\nJohn Nash is an American broadcaster and executive. He was an NBA general manager of the Philadelphia 76ers, New Jersey Nets, Portland Trail Blazers, and Washington Bullets. He also has worked as a broadcaster for Comcast, and in several other NBA front office jobs.\n\nHis contract with the Trail Blazers was not renewed after the conclusion of the 2005–06 season. He signed with the Philadelphia 76ers for the 2008-09 season as a Pro Personal Scout.\n"}
{"id": "2131991", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2131991", "title": "Ludwig Frankenstein", "text": "Ludwig Frankenstein\n\nLudwig Frankenstein is a fictional character who appears in the Universal horror film \"The Ghost of Frankenstein\". He is played by Sir Cedric Hardwicke.\n\nLudwig is the son of Henry Frankenstein and younger brother of Wolf Frankenstein. Living in the town of Visaria with his daughter, Elsa, he is a medical doctor who specialized in brain surgery: specifically, in treating the mentally ill with the help of his colleagues, Dr. Bohmer (Ludwig's mentor who was demoted to Ludwig's assistant following a tragic surgical mistake) and Dr. Kettering, the former being his mentor.\n\nFollowing the apparent deaths of Ygor and Frankenstein's monster at the hands of Wolf Frankenstein in \"Son of Frankenstein\", Wolf gave to Ludwig both his own scientific notes as well as those of their father. Not wanting the people of Visaria, much less his daughter, to know about the unsavory history of his family, Ludwig kept the medical records of his father and brother Wolf locked away, determined not to let the sins of his father and brother haunt him. But Ludwig did not know that Ygor and the Monster were still alive. By some unrevealed act, Ygor becomes aware of Ludwig Frankenstein and his apparent success as a medical doctor which he reasons could help heal the Monster. The two arrive Visaria, Ygor demanded that Ludwig use his special talents to heal the Monster's sick brain, or else he informs the townspeople of the doctor's secret of being the actual son of the infamous monster-making Frankenstein.\n\nInitially, Ludwig agreed, but after the Monster killed Dr. Kettering in an unprovoked fit of violence and tried to abduct Elsa, he angrily changed his mind and planned to destroy the creature by dissecting the creature. However, the spirit of Henry Frankenstein (also played by Hardwicke in a moustache since Colin Clive had died in 1937) appeared before his son and implored him to reconsider, persuading Ludwig to use his talent at brain surgery to simply give the Monster another brain to replace the abnormal criminal one. Perhaps Ludwig was merely hallucinating, but in any case he was properly inspired to do what his father wished. He made plans to remove the Monster's brain and replace it with that of Dr. Kettering, whom both he and Dr. Bohmer viewed as a model citizen. In so doing, Ludwig hoped, he would end the threat of the Monster forever and clear the Frankenstein family's name.\n\nUnfortunately, Ygor persuaded Bohmer (who was secretly jealous of his former student's success) to put \"his\" brain into the Monster's head and not Kettering's. When Ludwig tried to stop the Monster, Ludwig ends up mortally wounded. But when the different blood types ensured that Ygor's brain was blind within the Monster's body, the wounded Ludwig states to Bohmer that Ygor's blood is incompatible with the Monster's blood and won't feed his sensory nerves as the Monster's blood is actually the same as Kettering's blood. The creature went berserk, killed Bohmer upon claiming that he was tricked, and destroyed Ludwig's laboratory...supposedly destroying itself, as well.\n\nLudwig was killed in the resulting fire as recounted by his daughter in the succeeding film \"Frankenstein Meets the Wolf Man\".\n"}
{"id": "2131997", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2131997", "title": "Gordon Hugenberger", "text": "Gordon Hugenberger\n\nGordon Paul Hugenberger (born ) was the senior pastor at historic Park Street Church, in Boston, Massachusetts (1997–2017). He announced on June 5, 2016 that he would leave that position by the end of June, 2017. He was born in Wellesley, Massachusetts, one of seven children. While working at a Salvation Army camp as a high schooler, he had a conversion experience and began to follow Jesus Christ as his Lord and Savior.\n\nHugenberger received his Bachelor of Arts in engineering and applied physics from Harvard University, the 1974 President's Award (for highest GPA) and summa cum laude with a Master of Divinity degree from Gordon-Conwell Theological Seminary in South Hamilton, Massachusetts, and his PhD from the College of St. Paul and St. Mary and the Oxford Centre for Postgraduate Hebrew Studies in Oxford, England. Hugenberger's mentor in seminary was Meredith G. Kline, and Hugenberger is an enthusiastic defender of many of Kline's ideas and has extended them into other areas of biblical interpretation. Hugenberger's doctoral advisor/supervisor was Pentateuch scholar Gordon J. Wenham.\n\nHugenberger has served on the full-time and adjunct faculty of Gordon-Conwell Theological Seminary since 1974. He is currently a Ranked Adjunct Professor of Old Testament at the seminary. He also served as pastor of the Lanesville Congregational Church in Gloucester, Massachusetts from 1974-1997. Between 1997 and 2017, he has served as the senior minister of Park Street Church. His scholarly interests include Hebrew grammar, Old Testament law and ethics, and Biblical theology. Dr. Hugenberger also regularly teaches various courses through Gordon-Conwell Theological Seminary, including \"Exegesis in Judges\", \"Theology of the Pentateuch\", and \"Christ in the Old Testament\". He served on the Translation Review Board for the English Standard Version (ESV) of the Bible, and he is currently writing a commentary on the Book of Judges in the Apollos Old Testament Commentary series. An expansion of his doctoral thesis (\"Marriage as a Covenant: A study of Old Testament laws and ethics governing marriage developed from the perspective of Malachi\") was published in 1994 by E.J. Brill & Co. as \"Marriage as a Covenant\" (reprinted in 1998 by Baker Book House).\n\nBased on his published research on marriage in the Bible, Hugenberger claims that sexual intimacy is intended by God to function exclusively within marriage as a covenant-ratifying and renewing act. It solemnly depicts the one-flesh bond that is definitional of marriage (Genesis 2:24), and it commits the couple before God, whether they are aware of it or not, to love each other as a part of their own body. With respect to questions about homosexuality, Hugenberger has published an extensive statement of his views, \"Questions and Answers on Issues Related to Homosexuality and Same-Sex Marriage.\" In his sermons on the topic, Hugenberger stresses that it should be the hallmark of Christians to be far more offended by their own sins than they are by anyone else's and that the Bible gives no support for homophobia, hatred, self-righteousness, prejudice, or bigotry: immorality that is homosexual is no worse, and it is no better than immorality that is heterosexual. He concludes from the Bible, \"We have a Lord who loves us, everyone of us, just as we are. We also have a Lord who loves us too much to leave us as we are.\"\n\nDr. Hugenberger has also published the book \"The Lord's Prayer: A Guide for the Perplexed\" (Park Street Church, 1999), and numerous articles in journals such as the Journal of the Evangelical Theological Society and the Southern Medical Journal. Some of the more notable ones are on 1Tim. 2:8-15 (on women in leadership), Typology, and the Servant of the Lord in the Servant Songs of Isaiah. He has also published a number of encyclopedia articles on the Old Testament in The International Standard Bible Encyclopedia, Revised (William B. Eerdman’s Publishing Company, 1986 and 1988) and The New Bible Commentary 21st Century Edition (InterVarsity Press, 1994). Dr. Hugenberger has also contributed in a variety of ways, including the introduction and study notes for Malachi in the English Standard Version Study Bible (Crossway, 2011), various articles for the Basics of Biblical Hebrew Grammar (Gary D. Pratico and Miles V. Van Pelt, Zondervan, 2001), and reviewing the translation of Malachi for the English Standard Version of the Bible (Crossway, 2011).\n\nIn another area of differences of opinion, Hugenberger preached a series of sermons on science and creation in November 2007 through February 2008 in which he defends both a positive view of modern science and the framework interpretation of Genesis 1. Gordon has articulated that while he has held on to many different positions on how to properly interpret Genesis 1, he favors a 'Days in Heaven' view.\n\nHugenberger lived in Boston with his wife Jane during his tenure in the Park Street Church pulpit; they have four adult children.\n\n"}
{"id": "2132002", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2132002", "title": "Bob Latchford", "text": "Bob Latchford\n\nRobert Dennis Latchford (born 18 January 1951) is an English former association footballer who played as a centre forward. He made more than 500 appearances in the Football League, playing for Birmingham City, Everton, Swansea City and Coventry City in the First Division, and won 12 full caps for England.\n\nLatchford was the complete centre-forward, able to score or create chances for teammates using either of his feet or his head. Despite his size – 6 feet (1.83m) tall – he was very fast over short distances, a quality he used to his advantage when scoring many of his goals.\n\nLatchford was born in Kings Heath, Birmingham. He was transferred from Birmingham City to Everton for £350,000, a British transfer record at the time (Howard Kendall and Archie Styles were transferred to Birmingham City as part of the same deal, with Birmingham being paid just £80,000). At Everton, Latchford was the top scorer for six successive seasons. He scored 30 goals in the 1977–78 season, winning a £10,000 prize offered by a national newspaper for the first footballer to reach that number in a single season. During the mid-seventies, Latchford was widely considered as one of the top English forwards of his generation. He earned his first full cap for England in a World Cup qualifier against Italy in 1977. In April 2006 a book was published telling the story of his 1977/78 season. Co-written with journalist Martin O'Boyle, the book supports Everton's former players charity.\n\nThe closest he came to a winner's medal at Everton was as a finalist in the League Cup in 1977. Latchford made 268 appearances (3 as substitute) for Everton scoring 138 goals. After a guest stint in Australia for Brisbane Lions in 1981, scoring 4 goals in as many appearances, Latchford left Everton for Swansea, newly promoted to the top tier of English football, scoring a hat-trick on his debut for the Swans. He later also played for Dutch club NAC Breda (15 Appearances – 13 Goals), Newport County and finally Merthyr Tydfil before retiring as a player in 1987.\n\nDuring his time at Everton, he was the club's leading post Second World War goalscorer with 138 goals, a record he held until 1989 when Graeme Sharp exceeded Latchford's tally. By the time Latchford left Everton, only Dixie Dean (pre Second World War) had scored more goals for the club in history. \n\nLatchford played 12 times for England, scoring 5 goals. He represented the players at Professional Footballers' Association, and in 1983 was part of a delegation which negotiated improved terms for players in the FA's deal with broadcasters for live coverage of that season's FA Cup.\n\nNow living in Germany with his family, Latchford makes regular trips back to England to speak on the after-dinner circuit and also has a regular column on Everton independent website, NSNO.co.uk.\n\nLatchford's two brothers, Dave and Peter, were both professional goalkeepers. Like Bob, Dave Latchford played for Birmingham City; whilst Peter Latchford represented West Bromwich Albion before spending over ten years at Celtic. (In March 1974, Bob managed the rare footballing feat of scoring twice against a sibling in a top-flight match .)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2132016", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2132016", "title": "Sherman Day", "text": "Sherman Day\n\nSherman Day (1806–1884) was born in New Haven, Connecticut and died in Berkeley, California. He attended Phillips Academy, Andover and graduated from Yale College, A.B., 1826, receiving the degree from his father, Jeremiah Day (1773–1867), who was president of Yale from 1817–1846. He was also the grandson of the American founding father Roger Sherman.\n\nAfter his graduation he lived in New York and Philadelphia for a time, as a merchant. For several years he was in Ohio and Indiana as an engineer. In 1843, he published Historical Collections of the State of Pennsylvania. He came to California in 1849, and engaged in civil and mining engineering at San Jose, New Almaden, Folsom and Oakland.\n\nIn 1855 he made for the state a survey of wagon-road routes across the Sierra Nevada; California State Senate, 1855–56; United States Surveyor General, California, 1868–71; original trustees, University of California, Professor, Mine Construction and Surveying.\n\nSherman Day's \"Historical Collections of Pennsylvania\" is considered one of the most important documentations of early histories of Pennsylvania, mostly because it included individual histories for all the counties within the Keystone State. As well, it contained a series of wonderful images (produced by Sherman as well) of all parts of the Keystone State.\n"}
{"id": "2132029", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2132029", "title": "Andre Walker", "text": "Andre Walker\n\nAndre Walker (born August 19, 1956 in Chicago, Illinois) is a hairstylist from the United States who has won seven Daytime Emmy Awards for Outstanding Achievement in Hairstyling for his work on \"The Oprah Winfrey Show\". He is best known for being the personal hairstylist of Oprah Winfrey and for creating Halle Berry's signature short pixie haircut. Other celebrity clients of Walker's have included Barbara Bush and Michelle Obama.\n\nAfter graduating from the Pivot Point Academy, Walker began working as a hairstylist and opened his own salon in downtown Chicago. In 1986, after watching \"The Oprah Winfrey Show\", he wrote to Oprah offering to help style her hair. She responded and took up his offer, and he soon became her personal hairstylist. \n\nFor his work on \"The Oprah Winfrey Show\", Walker won the Daytime Emmy Award for Outstanding Achievement in Hairstyling seven times in 1989, 1990, 1993, 1994, 1996, 1997 and 2003. He was also nominated for this award a further seven times (in 1987, 1988, 1998, 1999, 2004, 2005 and 2006). In 2008, Pivot Point International awarded Walker its inaugural L.E.O. Award, named for Pivot Point founder Leo Passage. Walker thanked Pivot Point for encouraging him to “do almost anything” in the field of hair design. Walker received the Thurgood Marshall Fashion Icon Award in 2009. \n\nIn the 1990s, he created the Andre Walker Hair Typing System to market his line of hair care products, which has since been widely adopted as a hair type classification system.\n\n"}
{"id": "2132110", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2132110", "title": "West Indies A cricket team in Sri Lanka in 2005", "text": "West Indies A cricket team in Sri Lanka in 2005\n\nWest Indies A toured Sri Lanka for a cricket tournament between 23 June and 19 July 2005. They played three unofficial four-day \"Tests\" and five unofficial \"ODIs\". The plans for the tour were only confirmed in mid-June as a result of a dispute over sponsorship between the West Indies Cricket Association and its players. The row continued between the Association and the senior West Indian players, though, which led to the Association asking all West Indies A players whether they would make themselves available for the Test tour immediately following the A tour. On 28 June it was announced that they had unanimously declined the request. However, that unanimous agreement vanished in the coming days, and several players were called up from the A squad to the main squad – resulting in the A squad needing more players. Twenty players eventually turned out for the West Indies A squad. Both the first-class and one-day series were alive until the very last match, though. West Indies A took a 57-run victory in the first \"Test\" match, taking the last five wickets of that game for three runs, but crashed to a humbling innings defeat in the second. Sri Lanka A won the series 2–1 thanks to a four-wicket win in the last match. In the one-dayers, West Indies could have forced a drawn series if they had managed to win the last game, but Sri Lanka's bowling undid them and they lost the series 3–1.\n\nWest Indies A beat Sri Lanka A by 57 runs\n\nXavier Marshall with 82 and Daren Ganga with 99 – both with ODIs for West Indies – lifted West Indies A to 228 for 2, but there was little resistance after that, and Sajeewa Weerakoon could take six wickets with his left-arm spin. However, Jermaine Lawson and Tino Best put pressure on with good and lucky fast bowling, as only wicket-keeper Prasanna Jayawardene passed fifty runs. The touring team had a slender lead of 37, but batting with more composure the second time around, Ryan Ramdass and Carlton Baugh, who both made fifties, ensured that the visitors would have to chase 316. They were well on their way – despite two wickets from Best early on, and Avishka Gunawardene retiring hurt – with 126 for 2 at stumps on day 3. And they would have fancied their chances with the hard-hitting Gunawardene at the crease, and the score 255 for 5. Then the wheels fell off – the last five wickets went for three runs, and the West Indians took the first of the three-game series.\n\nSri Lanka A beat West Indies A by an innings and 16 runs\n\nSri Lanka A levelled the series with a comprehensive win over West Indies A. However, the main action was happening off the field, as the West Indies Cricket Board's dispute with its senior players over sponsorship issues caused them to drop key players from the Test squad. Only six first-choice players were named in the Test squad, with West Indies A team members Tino Best, Kerry Jeremy, Xavier Marshall, Ryan Ramdass, Runako Morton, Dwayne Smith, Narsingh Deonarine and Jermaine Lawson being named in the side. Controversy surrounds how much pressure the WICB brought to bear on the A team members, but the situation certainly did not help the team concentrate on the game. On the first day of the match, West Indies A batted first, making 253 as only Runako Morton's 114 saved them from humiliation. In reply, Russel Arnold, with 159 was the mainstay of the Sri Lankan innings as they made 417 to establish a lead of 164. Sajeewa Weerakoon then took 6 for 56 as West Indies A capitulated for 148. \n\nSri Lanka A beat West Indies A by four wickets\n\nA new-look West Indies A were close to giving Sri Lanka A a fight, but Sri Lanka A still won the match and the \"Test\" series. Daren Ganga made 109 for West Indies A, lifting them to 324 in total, before Dwayne Washington took three for 31 as Sri Lanka A were all out, twelve runs behind. However, the match was running out of time, and West Indies A did not seem all that keen on trying to win it. After wicket-keeper Lendl Simmons departed for 52, a total of 104 runs were hit in 55 overs – Darren Sammy making 40 not out off 166 balls. Yet, a marathon bowling effort from left-arm spinner Sajeewa Weerakoon yielded six wickets for 57 runs, and West Indies A were all out for 205 – setting a target of 218 with around 40 overs remaining. Sri Lanka A went for it positively, hitting at nearly exactly a run a ball, with Avishka Gunawardene top scoring with 49. Despite three quick wickets from Sammy to reduce Sri Lanka A to 186 for 6, that was as close as the Caribbean tourists got, as Dilhara Lokuhettige made 22 not out and guided the hosts to the target.\n\nSri Lanka A tied with West Indies A (D/L method)\n\nAn entertaining one-day game between the two sides ended in a tie – West Indies A reaching the Duckworth/Lewis target. Earlier, Sri Lanka A had enlisted the help of Saman Jayantha who made 73, while off-spinner Dave Mohammed took four for 44. A revised target of 201 in 41 overs looked tricky for the West Indies, as Dilhara Loku Hettige took three early wickets and with some help had the tourists tied down on 99 for 6, but Carlton Baugh and Mohammed rescued them to 200 for 6 after 41 overs. \n\nSri Lanka A beat West Indies A by 15 runs (D/L method)\n\nMarlon Samuels (100) and David Bernard (66) were the mainstays of the West Indian innings after they were put into bat by Sri Lanka. The West Indians scored well, making their way to 273 for 9 off their 50 overs. Whilst Sri Lanka lost the occasional wicket, they were able to put on partnerships of 31, 41, 51 and 9 before Arnold and Jayawardene got together. 102 runs later the partnership was broken and Sri Lanka moved to 243 for 5 when rain brought an end to the match after 44 overs. This left the hosts comfortable winners on the Duckworth–Lewis method. \n\nSri Lanka A beat West Indies A by seven wickets\n\nThe West Indians were put into bat at Moratuwa as rain reduced the match to a 35-over-a-side affair. West Indies A started strongly, reaching 71 for 1 before wickets started to tumble when Chattergoon (38) fell. Ganga (52), who came in first wicket down, anchored the innings, and was eighth man out. But no-one was able to stay with him for long as the West Indies were all out for 168 with 19 balls still to go. Sri Lanka encountered few difficulties in reaching their target, which they did with eleven balls and seven wickets spare. However, they did have an early wobble as Gunawardene, Jayantha and Kalavitagoda were all out with the score still on 39. Then Tharanga (74*) and Arnold (39*) saw the hosts home to a result that means Sri Lanka cannot lose the series. \n\nWest Indies A beat Sri Lanka A by eight wickets\n\nThe tourists pegged Sri Lanka A back to 1–2 in the series after bowling them out for 164 and then batting well to get to the total. Richard Kelly and Darren Sammy took four early wickets as Sri Lanka went from 20 for 0 to 26 for 4, and after Arnold and Jayawardene rebuilt, Lendl Simmons and David Bernard grabbed a wicket each to set Sri Lanka A further back. Kelly took a further two wickets to finish with four for 38, and Sri Lanka A finished on 164 all out. Lendl Simmons then cracked the highest score of the day by far, making 97 off 102 balls, and West Indies A took a comprehensive eight-wicket win. \n\nSri Lanka A beat West Indies A by 72 runs\n\nSri Lanka A secured the series thanks to 69 not out from Russel Arnold who hit runs quickly on a difficult pitch at Nondescripts Cricket Club Ground. He was well helped by Jayawardene, as the pair took plenty of runs off Darren Sammy and Dwight Washington. Despite four for 23 from spinner Dave Mohammed, Sri Lanka A made 227, and all their bowlers proceeded to take wickets as West Indies rolled over for 155. Dave Mohammed was the star with the bat as well, making 43, while Dave Bernard recorded a frustrating 12 off 41 balls.\n"}
{"id": "2132140", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2132140", "title": "Juan Álvarez (disambiguation)", "text": "Juan Álvarez (disambiguation)\n\nJuan Álvarez (1790–1867) was a Mexican general and 1855 president of Mexico.\n\nJuan Álvarez or Juan Alvarez may also refer to: \n"}
{"id": "2132149", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2132149", "title": "Hamoud Boualem", "text": "Hamoud Boualem\n\nHamoud Boualem is an Algerian soft drink manufacturing company, producing fizzy drinks popular in Algeria and exported to France, the United Kingdom, and Canada, mainly for consumption by Algerian emigrants. Founded in 1878 with the building of its first factory in the Belcourt neighborhood of Algiers, it is among the country's oldest companies. Their products include sodas such as \"Selecto\", \"Hamoud\", \"Slim\" (in various flavors), and various flavors of syrup. Their head offices are located at 201 rue Hassiba Ben Bouali, Algiers. \n\n"}
{"id": "2132151", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2132151", "title": "Pacific Air Lines Flight 773", "text": "Pacific Air Lines Flight 773\n\nPacific Air Lines Flight 773 was a Fairchild F27A Friendship airliner that crashed at 6:49 a.m. on May 7, 1964, near Danville, California. The crash was most likely the first instance in the United States of an airliner's pilots being shot by a passenger as part of a mass murder–suicide. Francisco Paula Gonzales, 27, shot both the pilot and co-pilot before turning the gun on himself, causing the plane to crash and killing all 44 aboard.\n\nThis crash is relatively similar to Pacific Southwest Airlines Flight 1771, which happened under the same circumstances.\n\nA former member of the Philippine sailing team at the 1960 Summer Olympics, Francisco Paula Gonzales (January 26, 1937 – May 7, 1964), a warehouse worker living in San Francisco, had been \"disturbed and depressed\" over marital and financial difficulties in the months preceding the crash. Gonzales was deeply in debt and nearly half of his income was committed to loan repayment, and he had informed both relatives and friends that he \"would die on either Wednesday, the 6th of May, or Thursday, the 7th of May.\" In the week preceding the crash, Gonzales referred to his impending death on a daily basis, and purchased a Smith & Wesson Model 27 .357 Magnum revolver through a friend of a friend, with serial number S201645.\n\nThe evening before the crash, before boarding a flight to Reno, Nevada, Gonzales had shown the gun to numerous friends at the airport and told one person that he intended to shoot himself. Gonzales gambled in Reno the night before the fatal flight and told a casino employee that he did not care how much he lost because \"it won't make any difference after tomorrow.\"\n\nThe plane, a twin-engine turboprop Fairchild F-27, registration N2770R, was a U.S.-built version of the Fokker F-27 Friendship airliner. It was manufactured in 1959, and had accumulated about 10,250 flight hours up to its final flight, with Pacific Air Lines as the sole owner and operator.\n\nThe F-27 took off from Reno at 5:54 a.m., with 33 passengers aboard, including Gonzales, and a crew of three, bound for San Francisco International Airport, with a scheduled stop in Stockton, California. The crew consisted of Captain Ernest Clark, 52, pilot in command, First Officer Ray Andress, 31, copilot, and Flight Attendant Margaret Schafer, 30.\n\nThe plane arrived at Stockton, where two passengers deplaned and ten boarded, bringing the plane’s total to 41 passengers. Both deplaning passengers reported that Gonzalez was seated directly behind the cockpit. It was about 6:38 a.m. when Flight 773 lifted off and headed towards San Francisco International.\n\nAt 6:48:15, with the aircraft approximately 10 minutes out of Stockton, the Oakland Air Route Traffic Control Center (ARTCC) received a high-pitched, garbled radio message from Flight 773, and the aircraft soon disappeared from the center’s radar displays.\n\nWith Flight 773 minutes from landing, Gonzales, seated directly behind the cockpit, burst into the cockpit and shot both pilots twice. Gonzales's first bullet hit a tiny section of the frame tubing from Captain Clark's seat. His second bullet killed Clark instantly. He then shot First Officer Andress, critically wounding him. Flying at its assigned altitude of 5,000 feet, Flight 773 went into a steep dive of 2,100 feet per minute at an airspeed of nearly 400 mph. The wounded Andress made a last frantic transmission as he tried to pull the plane out of the dive. The flight data recorder showed a sharp climb back to 3,200 feet. Gonzales most likely shot him again, fatally, before shooting himself, causing the plane to go into a final dive.\n\nAfter attempting unsuccessfully to contact Flight 773, Oakland ARTCC asked another aircraft in the immediate vicinity, United Air Lines Flight 593, if they had the plane in sight. Flight 593's flight crew responded that they did not see Flight 773, but a minute later they reported: \"There’s a black, uh, cloud of smoke coming up through the undercast at, uh, three-thirty, four o’clock position right now. Looks like (an) oil or gasoline fire.\" Oakland ARTCC realized that the smoke spotted by the United air crew was likely caused by the crash of Pacific Air Lines Flight 773.\n\nFlight 773 crashed into a rural hillside in southern Contra Costa County. The plane erupted in flames on impact, and dug a crater into the ground. Flight 773's last radio message, from First Officer Andress, was deciphered through laboratory analysis: \"I've been shot! We've been shot! Oh, my God, help!\"\n\nThe official accident report stated that witnesses along the flight path and near the impact area described \"extreme and abrupt changes in altitude of Flight 773 with erratic powerplant sounds\" before the plane hit a sloping hillside at a relative angle of 90 degrees.\n\nInvestigators from the Civil Aeronautics Board (CAB, a forerunner organization to today's National Transportation Safety Board [NTSB]) found in the mangled wreckage a damaged Smith & Wesson Model 27 .357 Magnum revolver, holding six spent cartridges. The Federal Bureau of Investigation soon joined the CAB in a search for evidence so that the apparent criminal aspects of this case could be pursued. Investigators found that when Gonzales left San Francisco for Reno the day before the fatal flight, he was carrying the .357, and that he had purchased $105,000 worth of life insurance at the airport, payable to his wife. The probable cause stated in the CAB accident report was \"the shooting of the captain and first officer by a passenger during flight\", and the FBI determined that the suicidal Gonzales was the shooter.\n\nCivil air regulation amendments became effective on August 6, 1964, that required that doors separating the passenger cabin from the crew compartment on all scheduled air carrier and commercial aircraft must be kept locked in flight. An exception to the rule remains during takeoff and landing on certain aircraft, such as the Fairchild F-27, where the cockpit door leads to an emergency passenger exit. The amendments were passed by the Federal Aviation Administration prior to the crash of Flight 773, but had not yet become effective. Julie Clark, one of three daughters of the murdered captain, orphaned at the age of 15 by her father's death, grew up to become a commercial airline pilot for Northwest Airlines, and performed aerobatic displays at airshows (retired in 2019).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2132155", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2132155", "title": "Osten", "text": "Osten\n\nOsten (IPA: [], N. Low Saxon: \"Oosten\") is a municipality in the district of Cuxhaven, in Lower Saxony, Germany. It is situated on the river Oste. Osten also means \"East\" in German.\n\nOsten belonged to the Prince-Archbishopric of Bremen, established in 1180. In 1648 the Prince-Archbishopric was transformed into the Duchy of Bremen, which was first ruled in personal union by the Swedish Crown - interrupted by a Danish occupation (1712–1715) - and from 1715 on by the Hanoverian Crown. The Kingdom of Hanover incorporated the Duchy in a real union and the Ducal territory became part of the new Stade Region, established in 1823.\n"}
{"id": "2132161", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2132161", "title": "Constitutional Affairs Committee", "text": "Constitutional Affairs Committee\n\nThe Commons Constitutional Affairs Committee (est. January 2003) of the United Kingdom was a select committee of the House of Commons which looked into the expenditure, policy and administration of the Department for Constitutional Affairs and associated public bodies. Following the reorganization of the Department of Constitutional Affairs and Home Affairs Committee and until the end of the 2006-2007 parliamentary session, the committee oversaw the Ministry of Justice. The committee has been replaced by the Justice Committee.\n\n\nThe Committee's remit also covered other departments for which the Secretary of State for Constitutional Affairs (subsequently Minister for Justice) and Lord Chancellor is responsible to Parliament, namely, the HM Courts Service, HM Land Registry, the Public Record Office, the Northern Ireland Court Service, and the Legal Service Commission. The Committee has also launched an Inquiry into the implementation of the Freedom of Information Act.\n\nIn March 2006, the committee said it would inquire into party funding and would interview the Labour party's chief fundraiser Lord Levy who had been implicated in the Cash for Peerages scandal.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2132172", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2132172", "title": "A Liar's Autobiography", "text": "A Liar's Autobiography\n\nA Liar's Autobiography, Volume VI is a comical autobiography written by Graham Chapman of Monty Python fame, featuring a fictionalised account of his life. First published in Britain in 1980, it was republished in 1991, 1999 and 2011.\n\nUnusually for an autobiography, the work is credited inside to five authors: Chapman, his partner David Sherlock, Alex Martin, Douglas Adams, and David A. Yallop. Adams' sole contribution was in the form of a sketch written by himself and Chapman for the television pilot \"Out of the Trees\", which was rewritten for the book in the first person and passed off as a real event. It is not known how much material the other writers contributed. The book was re-released in 1991 with an afterword by Eric Idle, which has been included in all subsequent releases.\n\nA semi-sequel, \"Calcium Made Interesting\", was released in 2005.\n\nIn June 2011, it was announced that Bill and Ben Productions was making an animated 3D movie based on the memoir. The full title is \"A Liar's Autobiography: The Untrue Story of Monty Python's Graham Chapman\". Although not a Monty Python movie, all but one of the remaining Pythons are involved in the project. Asked what was true in a deliberately fanciful account by Chapman of his life, Terry Jones joked: \"Nothing… it’s all a downright, absolute, blackguardly lie.\"\n\nThe film uses Chapman's own voice—from a reading of his autobiography shortly before he died of cancer—and entertainment channel EPIX has announced that the film is in both 2D and 3D formats. Produced and directed by London-based Bill Jones, Ben Timlett and Jeff Simpson, the film used 14 animation companies, each working on chapters that range from 3 to 12 minutes in length, with each chapter in a different style.\n\nJohn Cleese recorded dialogue which was matched with Chapman's voice. Michael Palin voiced Chapman's father and Terry Jones voiced his mother. Terry Gilliam voiced Graham's psychiatrist. They all play various other roles. Among the original Python group, only Eric Idle was not involved.\n\nThe film received a limited theatrical release on 2 November 2012 in the US, and aired on the Epix TV channel on the same day. The film was shown in 3D at the Rotterdam Film Festival on 1 February 2013.\n"}
{"id": "2132175", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2132175", "title": "Thorn Electrical Industries", "text": "Thorn Electrical Industries\n\nThorn Electrical Industries Limited was an electrical engineering business. It was listed on the London Stock Exchange but merged with EMI Group to form Thorn EMI in 1979. It was de-merged in 1996 and became a constituent of the FTSE 100 Index, but was acquired by the Japanese Nomura Group only two years later.\n\nSir Jules Thorn and Alfred Deutsch founded the company in March 1928 as The Electric Lamp Service Company Ltd. Thorn had worked in England as a travelling salesman for Olso, an Austrian manufacturer of gas mantles. When Olso went bankrupt, Thorn decided to stay in England. Deutsch, an Austrian engineer, visited Thorn in 1928 and was persuaded to stay to help organize the company's production process.\n\nIn 1932, Thorn acquired the Atlas Lamp Works and began making light bulbs in Edmonton, North London. The company grew rapidly to become Thorn Lighting, one of the world's largest producers of lamps, luminaires and lighting components. The name changed to Thorn Electrical Industries in November 1936. The company later began to diversify by buying Ferguson Radio Corporation in the late 1950s and Ultra Radio & Television in 1961.\n\nIn 1965, Thorn took over local Edmonton firm Glover and Main, gas-appliance manufacturers.\n\nOther notable brands within the Thorn group over the years included Radio Rentals, DER (both TV rental), Rumbelows (electrical goods), Tricity (cookers and fridges), Kenwood (food mixers), Thorn Kidde (fire protection), TMD\n(microwave equipment) and Mazda (light bulbs).\n\nIn October 1979, Thorn merged with EMI to form Thorn EMI.\n\nOn 16 August 1996, Thorn EMI shareholders voted in favour of de-merging Thorn. The electronics and rentals divisions were divested as Thorn plc.\n\nFuture Rentals, a subsidiary of the Nomura Group, acquired Thorn in 1998. It subsequently passed to Terra Firma Capital Partners which set up the BrightHouse chain. The remainder of the company was sold to a private buyer in June 2007.\n\n"}
{"id": "2132177", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2132177", "title": "Milorad Pavić (footballer)", "text": "Milorad Pavić (footballer)\n\nMilorad Pavić (, ; 11 November 1921 – 16 August 2005) was a Serbian football player and coach.\n\nIn his home country he coached Red Star Belgrade and FK Vojvodina.\n\nHe also coached Belgian teams Club Brugge (1967–1969), Standard Liège (1964–1967, 1985–1986, 1987–1988), Portuguese teams Benfica (1974–1975) and Sporting CP (1978–1979), and Spanish teams Athletic Bilbao (1972–1974), CD Málaga (1975–1977) and Celta de Vigo (1980–1983). Outside Yugoslavia he was known by nickname \"Michel\". The press also described him as a \"Gentleman in Iron Gloves\".\n\nIn his youth Pavić was taken hostage by the Germans in World War II.\n\nAs a player, he defended the colours of Red Star Belgrade. After his active career he became a head coach with the same team, winning the national championship three times (1958–59, 1959–60, 1963–64) and winning three Yugoslav Cups (1958, 1959, 1964). For seven seasons between 1957 and 1964, he led the team from the bench in 216 official competitive matches (113 wins, 52 draws, and 51 losses).\n\nPavić also won two Belgian Cups as a coach with Standard Liege (1966, 1967), a Spanish Copa del Rey with Athletic Bilbao (1973), and a Portuguese league with Benfica in 1974–75.\n\nRed Star Belgrade\nStandard Liège\nAthletic Bilbao\nBenfica\nCelta Vigo\n\n"}
{"id": "2132182", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2132182", "title": "American Falcon", "text": "American Falcon\n\nAmerican Falcon was an Argentinian airline based in Buenos Aires. The airline began operations in 1996 and shut down in 2005. It operated largely domestic services, but also some international routes to South American cities.\n\nThe airline was formed in 1995 and initially offered only charter services, though it gradually introduced scheduled flights.\n\nIn 2003, the airline embarked on a major expansion after the closure of Líneas Aéreas Privadas Argentinas and Dinar Líneas Aéreas, investing US$4 million in new routes and aircraft.\n\nOn 1 March 2004, due to rising fuel costs, the airline announced it was ending all operations within a week. It completely shut down a year later.\n\nThe airline operated a maximum of five aircraft after its 2003 expansion—three Boeing 737-200s and two Fokker F28s. Shortly before it ended operations, it returned one of the Fokkers to the lessor.\n\n"}
{"id": "2132190", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2132190", "title": "Arieș", "text": "Arieș\n\nThe Arieș () is a left tributary of the river Mureș in Transylvania, Romania. It discharges into the Mureș in Gura Arieșului, 11 km southwest of Luduș. Its total length (including its headwater Arieșul Mare) is , and its drainage basin area is .\n\nMost probably \"Arieș\" means \"Gold River\", the name being derived from the Latin \"Aureus\". The Hungarian name \"Aranyos\" means \"Golden\" and it was first mentioned in 1177.\n\nThe source of the river is in the Bihor Mountains, part of the Apuseni Mountains, which translates as The Western Mountains. The Arieș is formed near the village of Mihoești at the confluence of two headwaters: Arieșul Mare and Arieșul Mic. It flows through Alba and Cluj Counties and flows into the Mureș near the village of Gura Arieșului, which is close to the town of Luduș.\n\nThe towns of Câmpeni, Baia de Arieș, Turda, and Câmpia Turzii lie on the river Arieș. The upper valley of the river, Țara Moților, is a beautiful rustic region and an important mining region (Roșia Montană), rich in gold, silver and uranium. Those mines of Apuseni Mountains (also known as \"Metaliferi Mountains\") were exploited since Dacian reign, and later on they attracted the Roman invasion.\n\nThe following towns and villages are situated along the river Arieș, from source to mouth: Mihoești, Gura Sohodol, Câmpeni, Boncești, Lunca Merilor, Bistra, Gârde, Lunca Largă, Pițiga, Lupșa, Hădărău, Valea Lupșii, Muncelu, Baia de Arieș, Sartăș, Brăzești, Sălciua de Jos, Poșaga de Jos, Lunca, Vidolm, Lungești, Buru, Moldovenești, Cornești, Cheia, Mihai Viteazu, Turda, Câmpia Turzii, Viișoara, Luna, Luncani, Hădăreni, Gligorești\n\nThe following rivers are tributaries to the river Arieș (from source to mouth):\n\nLeft: Arieșul Mare, Valea Caselor (Câmpeni), Bistra, Bistrișoara, Valea Mare, Dobra, Valea Caselor (Lupșa), Lupșa, Sartăș, Sălciuța, Poșaga, Ocoliș, Ocolișel, Iara, Borzești, Hășdate, Valea Pordei, Săndulești, Valea Racilor, Aluniș, Valea Sărată, Pârâul Florilor, Valea Largă\n\nRight: Arieșul Mic, Sohodol, Abrud, Valea Luteștilor, Ștefanca, Valea Mușcanilor, Valea Șesii, Hermăneasa, Cioara, Valea Largă, Cheia, Rimetea, Văleni, Plăiești, Bădeni, Racoșa, Valea Odăii Beteag\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2132193", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2132193", "title": "Wartime cross-dressers", "text": "Wartime cross-dressers\n\nMany people have engaged in cross-dressing during wartime under various circumstances and for various motives. This has been especially true of women, whether while serving as a soldier in otherwise all-male armies, while protecting themselves or disguising their identity in dangerous circumstances, or for other purposes.\n\nConversely, men would dress as women to avoid being drafted, the mythological precedent for this being Achilles hiding at the court of Lycomedes dressed as a girl to avoid participation in the Trojan War.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2132196", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2132196", "title": "Miami Beach Senior High School", "text": "Miami Beach Senior High School\n\nMiami Beach Senior High School (Beach High, MBSH) is a secondary school located at 2231 Prairie Avenue Miami Beach, Florida, across from the Miami Beach Convention Center and Botanical Garden. It is located at the corner of Prairie Avenue and Dade Boulevard. The school is in Miami-Dade County and is part of the Miami-Dade County Public Schools, the fourth-largest school district in the United States. In addition, Miami Beach Senior High is the second oldest in Miami-Dade County (after Miami Senior High). In 2009, the school was recognized as a magnet school.\nIn 2010, Miami Beach Senior High was recognized as an International Baccalaureate World School, meaning a select group of students get to attend a two-year program that allows them to graduate with a special diploma. The school was the first in the city of Miami Beach to receive the designation.\n\nMiami Beach High opened in 1926. It was originally located at 1424 Drexel Avenue, in the heart of the South Beach district. It is one of the oldest high schools in Miami-Dade County, trailing only Miami Senior High (1903). It was designed by August Geiger.\n\nCarl Fisher provided the funds for the purchase of the land. For the first nine years of the school, it was named after Carl's mother, Ida M. Fisher. (Mrs. Fisher's middle initial was not \"M\", and the use of that letter was due to a typographer's error. Carl did not care and was so pleased that the school had been named for his mother that he stated the incorrect letter did not make a difference to him.)\n\nThe school's first principal was C. C. Carson. The first class motto was: \"Let us be known for our deeds.\" At that time, the school's nickname was the Typhoons, but this name was changed after its 1960 move to its new location at 2231 Prairie Avenue, about a block north of the South Beach district.\n\nUnder a forced desegregation order from the Florida Supreme Court, Miami Beach High underwent desegregation efforts.\n\nPrior to the opening of North Miami Beach High School and Dr. Michael Krop High School, students from North Miami Beach were assigned to Miami Beach High School and Miami Norland High School.\n\nThe original building at 14th and Drexel Avenue is now part of the Fienberg-Fisher K-8 Center compound. The school is being renovated and new buildings added to replace the demolished ones.\n\nIn the late 1990s, Beach High adopted ID numbers for every student in the school along with school ID cards following an incident in 1995 with a gang member on campus who was not a student at the school. Soon after, every other school in Miami-Dade followed suit.\n\nA new building that opened in 1999 was plagued with defects in the construction. Students were not permitted to use the lockers, and rain caused damage to school equipment.\n\nMiami Beach Senior High School did not make AYP in 2006. Under the No Child Left Behind program, a school makes Adequate Yearly Progress (AYP) if it achieves the minimum levels of improvement determined by the state of Florida in terms of student performance and other accountability measures.\n\nSince the 2006–2007 school year, the school has gone with a block schedule consisting of an A-Day (Odd - 1, 3, 5, 7) and B-Day (Even - 2, 4, 6, 8) on alternating school days. It consists of three classes before lunch under Secondary School Reform.\n\nThe 2007–2008 school year began with a new principal, Dr. Rosann Sidener, who improved the school's overall grade from a \"D\" to a \"B\" in her first year. This school year also saw the move from the old Beach High to the new Beach High in January 2008 with a new library and two new wings (2 and 3).\n\n2008–2009 was the first year in which Miami Beach Sr. High students wore uniforms. In a two-to-one vote by some students' parents and guardians, the vote was ratified. Students now wear red or white shirts with school logo or no logo, along with any shorts or jeans below the knees. The parents and faculty also voted to retain the Hi-Tide name and colors over going back to the Typhoons (former name).\n\nStarting the 2009–2010 school year, Miami Beach Senior High is recognized as a magnet school, becoming the tenth magnet high school in Miami-Dade. Beach High was selected by the school district to apply for the MSAP grant, which is reserved for schools with high minority populations like Beach High, whose student body is 70% of Hispanic origin, compared to the state average of 25%. The district agreed to sponsor Miami Beach High because there are no other magnet schools in the area, and because of the expected increase of school size to nearly 3,000 students as a result of new construction. Beach High will now be able to receive students beyond its attendance boundaries along with those who live within them.\n\nIn early 2012, Principal Sidener was named the 2012 Principal of the Year by the Florida Association of School Administrators.\n\nIn May 2012, the school held its prom next to an XXXotica Porn Convention at the Miami Beach Convention Center. The two events were held side-by-side, separated by a wall. The prom was held at the convention center to avoid students' drinking at hotels. It was the subject of national jokes, especially on the \"Jimmy Kimmel Live!\" late night show.\n\nBuilding 1 includes the main office, counselors' offices (second floor), and the foreign language wing (second floor).\n\nBuilding 2 is made up of three floors and includes the library (first floor), 12 student restrooms (all floors), and a variety of different classrooms. Connected by an outdoor catwalk, Building 3 includes the Academy of Entrepreneurship (second floor), Academy of Visual and Performing Arts (first floor), and Academy of Information Technology (first and second floors) classrooms. Building 3 also includes the auditorium, as well as drama, chorus, band, guitar, and MIDI lab rooms.\n\nFormerly the 9 Building, Building 4 includes the Academy of Hospitality and Tourism classroom, three science classrooms, and two student restrooms. Located across from Building 4 and formerly the 4 Building, Building 5 was remodeled as part of the ongoing construction of the new Miami Beach Senior High. Building 5 houses the NJROTC and Academy of Information Technology in its two floors. It has various classrooms and computer labs, including a remodeled weight training room.\n\nBuilding 6 is a brand new wing that includes the physical ed classrooms, the SCSI room, and the gymnasium. Building 6 consists of two floors and also includes the Varsity and Junior Varsity locker rooms. Building 7 includes the Scholars' Academy wing. It has various classrooms throughout the two floors. Buildings 6 and 7 are located next to the cafeteria, which has six serving bays and a holding capacity of 1,100 people.\n\nThe football field is located behind Buildings 4 and 5 beside the back parking lot. It is currently not in use.\n\nOn May 28, 2010, it was announced that the Miami Dolphins and the National Football League had contributed towards the renovation of the field. A former alumnus, majority owner Stephen M. Ross, donated half of a $164,000 grant to the school. The field was expected to be renewed by that September, and named after Ross. His $82,000 grant matched an equal donation by the Dolphins, NFL Youth Football Fund and Local Initiatives Support Corporation.\n\nThe team plays its games at Flamingo Park's Memorial Field. It is expected to continue to play there, but could move to playing games at the school in the future.\n\nMiami Beach High School has a gymnasium which is used for basketball, volleyball and wrestling. The baseball and soccer field is in Flamingo Park, located about a mile away from the school. The current athletic director is Edgar Botto. Miami Beach High offers these athletics:\nFall schedule\n\nWinter schedule\n\nSpring schedule\nYear-round\n\nThe school's sports history and achievements are as follows:\n\nDuring the DECA 50th State Career Development Conference in 2010, Isabella Mongalo became the first person in Dade County to be elected a Florida DECA state officer when she was selected by voting delegates as Florida Vice-President.\n\nIn 2015, the Speech and Debate team were the runner-ups at CFL Nationals and won the FFL State Championship, both in Public Forum Debate.\n\n\nAcademy of Hospitality and Tourism: Launched in 1987, this prepares students for post-secondary education and careers through a theme-based, contextualized curriculum approach. It provides students with the requisite knowledge and skills for a successful career in one of the world's largest service industries, through a curriculum that provides an in-depth look at all aspects of tourism and hospitality, including coursework in business, geography, hospitality, and economics. The Academy of Hospitality & Tourism operates as a small learning community and is located in more than 110 high schools nationwide, including Miami Beach Senior High. It is the largest academy of the school, with nearly 200 students. Students go on annual familiarization trips to places such as Denver, Alaska, Orlando, and San Francisco.\n\nAcademy of Information Technology: For students in the 9th through 12th grades, this academy provides student internships, job shadowing opportunities, industry certifications in networking (A+ and C.I.W.), Adobe Dreamweaver, Flash and Photoshop, and in Microsoft's M.O.S. AOIT students also network with NAF (The National Academy Foundation) and community leaders who help guide the program and advocate on its behalf. This academy teaches the students about computer technology in general.\nAcademy of Visual and Performing Arts: This offers program strands in drawing, painting, sculpture, photography, acting, music performance, music education, and music composition/sound engineering.\n\nAcademy of Digital Media: This offers program strands in film and television production, journalism and creative writing.\n\nAcademy of Marine and Environmental Science: This is offered to students interested in fields involving the environment or marine life.\n\nAcademy of Entrepreneurship: This is for students in grades 10–12 who wish to enhance their high school career with real-world experience in business and entrepreneurship. AOSBE introduces high school students to the global workplace and to many career opportunities available in accounting, business administration, finance, and entrepreneurship.\n\nAcademy of Education and Child Care: This offers opportunities and innovative ways to learn about the responsibilities of child care, and the future of the students with real-life situations.\n\nAVID: Advancement Via Individual Determination is a fourth- through twelfth-grade system to prepare students in the academic middle for four-year college eligibility. It has a proven track record in bringing out the best in students, and in closing the achievement gap.\n\nScholars Academy: During sophomore year, students in this academy are given the opportunity to apply for the International Baccalaureate program, which begins in the 11th grade and lasts until senior year.\n\nThe State's Accountability program grades a school by a complex formula that looks at both current scores and annual improvement on the Reading, Math, Writing and Science FCATs.\n\nAn episode of MTV's \"MADE\", a self-improvement reality television series, was shot at Miami Beach Senior High in early 2010, chronicling the Miami Beach Cheer Team. It is the third episode of the 11th season of the series. It premiered August 20, 2010, to mixed reviews.\n\nIn 1985, the opening scene of the movie \"Band of the Hand\" (directed by Paul Michael Glaser) was filmed at MBSH. An explosion scene was filmed by blowing out the wall to a classroom in the 100 wing.\n\nThe ethnic composition of the student body is: \n\nThe gender composition of the student body is: \n\nBy the 1950s the majority of Miami Beach High's student body had become Jewish. At that time many non-Jewish parents began sending their children to other schools. In previous decades wealthy Christian students were the majority.\n\nThe school is undergoing major renovations after 47 years at its second and current location on Prairie Avenue. The school demolished three old buildings (100–300 wings) while remodeling the zero wing (now Building 7) for the Scholars' Academy. Taking their place were two new buildings (Buildings 2 and 3), which opened in early 2008 along with a remodeled CAP office, new auditorium, a new dining facility and outdoor dining area with food court style service, a new gymnasium, black box theater, media center, science and computer labs. The first phase, which includes the already completed bus lane and parking lots, parent drop-off lane, auditorium, and new classrooms, was completed in late 2007.\n\nThe completed construction and remodeling of the school was finished a few weeks before school started. This includes a fourth facility (Building 6) which houses a new gym and cafeteria and opened in time for the start of the 2009–10 school year over the former area of the 100–400 wings. The new air-conditioned gym is twice the size of the old gym, which was demolished during the summer break of 2009 in time for the first day of school. A courtyard replaced the old gym's location. The new gym has an aerobics room, dance studio, and new locker rooms.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2132209", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2132209", "title": "Guelph Collegiate Vocational Institute", "text": "Guelph Collegiate Vocational Institute\n\nThe Guelph Collegiate Vocational Institute (GCVI, Guelph C.V.I., GC) is a public high school in Guelph, Ontario, Canada. The school is the oldest continuously operating public high school in Guelph, and the third oldest in the province of Ontario, Canada.\n\nThe high school which eventually became known as the Guelph Collegiate and Vocational Institute (GCVI) was founded in the early-mid-19th century by John Galt, also the founder of Guelph, Ontario (1827). The school was originally housed in a large four window log building known as \"the Priory\"; itself one of the first buildings constructed in Guelph. In 1854 the school moved to its current site on Paisley Road due to the construction of the Grand Trunk Railway.\n\nThe original building on the new site was torn down after a few decades and a new school constructed. Eventually a wooden gymnasium was added in 1886, and the school remained the same until 1906, when a large new wing was added to the left of the bell tower.\n\nGuelph Collegiate Vocational Institute had Canada's first high school lunch cafeteria.\n\nBy this time the school was developing a reputation second to none in the province. Finally, by the nineteen twenties there were serious problems with overcrowding. In 1923 a new building opened (constructed at a cost of $400,000) that included modern plumbing, a massive skylight covering the large, two story, open auditorium area. It was called the most modern and upscale school building in Ontario.\n\nThe older buildings were connected to the school and used periodically before they were torn down in 1962 to facilitate several more additions including a modern gym, business and science wing, and tech wings.\n\nOver the years tens of thousands of students have passed through the halls of GCVI, and many have left a memorable and distinct mark on the history of Canada.\n\nAccomplished alumni include: Col. John McCrae (Author of \"In Flanders Fields.\"), Hugh C. Guthrie (Canadian federal opposition leader, leader of the Conservative Party), Ed Joliffe (one of three GCVI Rhodes Scholars and founder of the Ontario CCF, and opposition leader in the Ontario House), George Alexander Drew (Mayor of Guelph, Premier of Ontario, Leader of the Opposition in the House of Commons, Leader of the Conservative Party, Ambassador to the UK, founding chairman of the Ontario Securities Commission, World War I hero), and Donna Strickland (Nobel Physics laureate).\n\nA bronze plaque memorial to Col John McCrae was erected by the Guelph Collegiate Vocational Institute.\n\nThe Guelph Collegiate Vocational Institute consists of four main buildings. The Old Building (building A) consists of three levels. The bottom level holds the visual arts department, chemistry department and a general sciences department. The floor above holds the guidance department, main office, geography department, math department and an auditorium that extends up into the top floor. The top floor holds the English department, family studies department and the biology department.\n\nThe New Building (building B) also has three levels. On the bottom level are the business and economics departments, the physics department and the nurse's office. On the floor above, there is a computer education department. The top floor has the history and the modern languages departments.\nBuilding C consists of two levels. On the first level are three separate gymnasiums. Above is the school cafeteria.\nBuilding D holds the school's technology departments and music department. The technology department has nine different shops. They include: integrated technology, transportation technology, manufacturing technology, construction technology, communication technology, technological design, computer engineering technology and computer and information science.\n\nThe Old Building of the Guelph Collegiate Vocational Institute consists of building styles that are unique only to that school in the City of Guelph. The original oak doors are still present from the building's original construction in 1923. Marble and granite encase all of the hallway floors throughout The Old Building. The hallways on the main floor of The Old Building measure an outstanding 18 ft. in height. The main entrance way into the school is surrounded by a large archway. It is easy to see the vast number of students who have walked the halls of G.C.V.I. as there are large indents that have been left in the granite stairways of the school from many thousands of feet walking up and down them each day.\n\n\n\n\n Philip Clendenning. \"Soviet Observer. A Memoir of my very small Part in the Collapse of the Soviet Union\" (Newtonville, MA 2012). Long chapter on student life at GCVI, 1955-1960.\n\n"}
{"id": "2132211", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2132211", "title": "Kwaku Dua I", "text": "Kwaku Dua I\n\nKwaku Dua Panin (born Fredua Agyeman;  – 27 April 1867) was the eighth Asantehene of the Kingdom of Ashanti from 25 August 1834 until his death.\n\nPrince Kwaku Dua took part in the fighting against the Gyaman, a state north of Kumasi, from 1818 to 1819, and particularly distinguished himself in combat when he commanded a division in the battle of Katamanso in 1826.\n\nIn 1834, Kwaku Dua Panin succeeded Osei Yaw Akoto. His wives included Nana Takyiau and her sister, Nana Konadu Somprema.\n\nWitnessing the frequent human sacrifices in Ashanti, the Dutch were convinced that the Ashanti and had vast manpower, some of which could be made available to the Royal Dutch Army. On 18 March 1837, Kwaku Dua Panin signed an agreement with King William I of the Netherlands to provide Ashanti recruits, a thousand of whom would join the Dutch East Indies Army within a year in exchange for guns.\n\nJacob Huydecoper, a Gold Coast Euro-African from Elmina, opened a recruitment agency in Kumasi to this end. As recruitment was still supposed to be voluntary, slaves offered to the recruiting agent received an advance payment – ostensibly to purchase their freedom. As part of the deal, two Ashanti princes, Kwasi Boachi—Kwaku Dua Panin's son—and Kwame Poku, were to be educated in the Netherlands. Boachi eventually graduated from the Royal Academy of Delft and became the first black mining engineer in the Netherlands who would go on to have a distinguished career in the East Indies.\n\nFrom 1841 to 1844, Kwaku Dua Panin fought against the Gonja and Dagomba to the north. In 1863, the Ashanti invaded territory to their south which was then under British protection, which soured relations with the British.\n\nKwaku Dua Panin died suddenly on 24 April 1867; he was succeeded by Kofi Karikari.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2132218", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2132218", "title": "Donald Grant", "text": "Donald Grant\n\nDonald MacLennan Grant (26 February 1888 – 11 June 1970) was a leader of the Industrial Workers of the World in Sydney, Australia, a member of the Sydney Twelve charged with conspiracy in 1916, and later a member of the Australian Labor Party who was elected to Sydney City Council, appointed to the New South Wales Legislative Council, and elected to the Australian Senate in 1943 where he served for sixteen years.\n\nBorn in Inverness, Scotland in 1888, Grant emigrated to Australia prior to the First World War. He joined the Industrial Workers of the World (IWW) and became known as one of their best public speakers, regularly drawing large crowds at The Domain, Sydney speaking against conscription, and for militant direct action against the war and capitalism. Tom Barker, the editor of the IWW newspaper \"Direct Action\", was arrested, convicted and sentenced to six months prison for publishing the famous anti-war poster, which said:\nTo ARMS! Capitalists, Parsons, Politicians, Landlords, Newspaper Editors, and other Stay-at-home Patriots. Your Country needs you in the trenches! Workers, Follow your masters!\n\nGrant is reported to have told the crowd at the Sydney Domain that \"for every day that Barker is in gaol, it will cost the capitalists 10,000 pounds\". These fifteen words formed the large part of the case against him in 1916 when he was arrested and charged as part of the Sydney Twelve with arson, conspiracy to prevent justice and incitement to sedition. He received a sentence of fifteen years, which inspired Henry Boote, editor of \"The Worker\" to write \"The case of Grant, Fifteen years for Fifteen Words\". Agitation for a review of the case and the release of all twelve prisoners started immediately and included a Royal Commission which found that Grant had been wrongly convicted. He was subsequently released in August 1920.\n\nDisillusioned with the IWW hostility to parliamentary politics, Grant was the Industrial Socialist Labor Party candidate for the New South Wales Legislative Assembly seat of Sturt in the 1922 state election. He gained less than 3% of the primary vote. Grant joined the Australian Labor Party in 1923. He soon won Labor preselection and was elected to the Sydney City Council for thirteen years. He was appointed by the Annual Conference of the NSW Labor Party to the Socialisation Committee from 1930 to 1933. In 1931 he was appointed to the New South Wales Legislative Council, where he represented the ALP for ten years.\n\nTurning to Federal politics, Grant was elected in 1943 as a Labor party Senator for New South Wales, and was an influential member of the Labor Party parliamentary caucus.\n\nAt the height of the 1949 Australian coal strike Grant told the miners:\n\nI come to Cessnock for one reason. In 1917...everyone was behind the workers [in the general strike], but they got beaten. Why? Because the State was against them. I have come here to tell you you won't beat the State.\n\nHe had particular interest in international affairs. This resulted in his selection as an Australian representative to the 1946 Paris Peace Conference, a delegate to the International Labor conference in Montreal, and the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association conference in Nairobi, Kenya in 1954. At the age of 71 in 1959 he failed to gain endorsement from the Labor party and retired from politics to his Sydney home where he died on 11 June 1970.\n\n"}
{"id": "2132223", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2132223", "title": "Eleni Daniilidou", "text": "Eleni Daniilidou\n\nEleni Daniilidou (; ; born 19 September 1982) is a Greek tennis player from the island of Crete.\n\nShe is considered as one of the best Greek tennis players of the Open Era, winning five singles titles and three doubles titles on the WTA Tour. In 2003, she reached the mixed-doubles final of the Australian Open, making her the first Greek player to have reached a Grand Slam final. Her highest singles ranking is world No. 14, making her the only female tennis player from Greece to have reached the top 20. No male tennis player had achieved this until Stefanos Tsitsipas reached the 15th place on August 13, 2018. By beating Justine Henin in the first round of the 2005 Wimbledon Championships, she became the first player to defeat a reigning French Open champion in the first round of Wimbledon.\n\nDaniilidou began her professional career in 1996, making the final of her first ITF event, having barely turned 14. She achieved her first ranking in 1998, finishing that year as the world No. 294. In 2001, she broke into the top 100 following a third round appearance at the US Open.\n\n2002 was the best year of Daniilidou's career, finishing it at No. 22 in the world. She won her first WTA Tour singles title at the Ordina Open, beating Amélie Mauresmo, Elena Dementieva and Henin; and reached the fourth round of a Grand Slam tournament for the first time at Wimbledon. At the end of the year, she reached her second WTA final at the Brasil Open, beating Monica Seles en route, but lost to Anastasia Myskina.\n\nDaniilidou started 2003 by winning her second WTA title at the ASB Classic and reaching the fourth round of the Australian Open, results which saw her break into the top 20 for the first time, reaching a career high of No. 14 after the German Open. She also reached the semifinals of the Open Gaz de France and the DFS Classic.\n\nDaniilidou successfully defended her title at the ASB Classic in 2004, her third WTA singles title. She reached the semifinals at the prestigious NASDAQ-100 Open, beating Jennifer Capriati en route. Later that year she equalled her best Grand Slam performance at the US Open by reaching the fourth round.\n\n2005 was a relatively poor year for Daniilidou, becoming the first since 2001 where she did not win a title. She did, however, cause a huge upset at Wimbledon, beating the reigning French Open champion, Justine Henin. It was the first time the French Open champion had ever lost in the first round of Wimbledon. It also brought the end of Henin's 24-match win streak dating back to the beginning of the clay season. Daniilidou eventually lost in the third round, her best Grand Slam performance of the year. She also reached the semifinals of a lower level WTA event in Portoroz, Slovenia.\n\nShe recovered slightly in 2006, going back into the top 50 and winning her fourth WTA singles title at the Hansol Korea Open. She also reached the semifinals of the Ordina Open, and remained in the top 50 in 2007 with her best result being a semifinal at the Pilot Pen Tennis, where she beat Dinara Safina in the quarterfinals after saving a match point.\n\n2008 was an injury-plagued season for Daniilidou, missing almost half the year with a right knee injury. She won her fifth – and to date, last – WTA singles title at the Hobart International, but missed several months of events from March. She returned at the Summer Olympics in August, but failed to win a match for the rest of the season, ultimately finishing the year outside the top 100 for the first time since 2000.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2132225", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2132225", "title": "Kamayurá", "text": "Kamayurá\n\nThe Kamayurá are an indigenous tribe in the Amazonian Basin of Brazil. Their name is also spelled Kamayura and Kamaiurá; it means \"a raised platform to keep meat, pots and pans.\" The Kamayurá language belongs to the Tupi–Guarani family\n\nThe Kamayurá live in the Upper Xingu region along with Kiabi, Yudja and Suya tribes. The ways of life of these four tribes are quite similar despite having different languages. Their villages are situated around Lake Ipavu, which is six kilometres from the Kuluene River. Much like other small indigenous cultures around the globe, the Kamayurá are struggling to adapt to the effects of deforestation and climate change.\n\nIn 2002 there were an estimated 355 people. Now there are about 544 (2010). Their numbers had made a good recovery from an all-time low of 94 people recorded in 1954, the previous reduction in numbers due to the measles epidemic. The total population was 264 when adventurer Karl von den Steinen originally visited the area.\n\nThe Kamayurá village comprises a round roof that is decorated with sape grass (\"Imperata brasiliensis\") and the ‘house of the flutes’ contain important flute (\"jakui\") instruments that can only be played by the men. In front of that house there is a meeting area where the men discuss fishing trips or plan festivals and so on.\n\nThe house is generally dark and is where the women and children dwell. The rainforest surround the entire village and private gardens can also be found.\n\nThe region was declared a national park by the Brazilian authorities in 1961, intended to prevent further intrusions and spread of deadly epidemics to locals. The Kamayurá people currently live near other indigenous peoples, namely the Kuikuro and Kalapalo, for example, in Upper Xingu. In regards to contact with non-indigenous people, this was first seen in 1884 with the exploration of Karl Von den Stein. At this time the Kamayurá were situated on the banks of the Lake Ipavu. Karl Von den Stein was a German explorer, and with his exploration opened up opportunities for other explorers to pass through the region of which the Kamayurá were situated. In 1942 the Federal Agency was created as well as the Central Brazil Foundation, this opened roads and established camps in the area which the Kamayurá were living. These open roads and camps directly affected the Kamayurá as contact with non-indigenous people continued. In 1961 Funai turned the territory the Kamayurá inhabited, into what is today known as the National Park.\n\nThe Kamayurá society comprises several villages, a group of brothers being the owner of each household. They decide what tasks and productive activities should be conducted each day by its members.\n\nAfter marriage the husband moves and lives in the wife’s parents’ house. Strong alliances can be established through marriages.\n\nThe genders are separated shortly after puberty. The boys are taught how to hunt for food with an arrow, do hard labour, and create a basket. Wrestling is done daily which strengthens their muscles. They are also trained in combat and taught leadership skills so they are able to look after their own families later on. This segregation lasts for up to five years before returning.\n\nThe teenage girls during seclusion must learn how to weave mats, and perform many basic everyday household duties. After a few years they become ready for marriage, they are given a new name and their ears are pierced. The girls also learn how to dance and look after the family.\n\nThere are many ceremonies and rituals of the Kamayurá people. Some of these rituals are: the feast of the dead, and the celebration feast of the warriors. The aim of these rituals is to bring together the various ethnic groups of the Upper Xingu area to celebrate the life of the deceased.\n\nBows and arrows (made with high quality materials), snail-shell belts and ceramic pots are traded with other tribes. Fish nets, canoes, flutes and hammocks are made as specialised goods.\n\nThe traditional Kamayura diet generally consists of fish, \"beiju\", porridge, pepper and bananas. Fish is the main source of protein. Birds are hunted in the rain forest while wild berries are gathered as the main food supplement. Most fur-bearing animals are considered taboo. Eagles can be a supplement for fish. Honey is also collected. Manioc is harvested and processed in beiju and a sweet soup called \"mohete\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2132241", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2132241", "title": "List of measuring devices", "text": "List of measuring devices\n"}
{"id": "2132264", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2132264", "title": "Pine Bend Refinery", "text": "Pine Bend Refinery\n\nThe Pine Bend Refinery is the largest oil refinery in Minnesota, located in the Twin Cities suburbs of Rosemount and Inver Grove Heights next to southern split of U.S. Highway 52 and Minnesota State Highway 55. The refinery is notable for being the largest in the United States to be located in a state without any oil wells. Overall, it ranked 14th in the country as of 2012 by production, with a nameplate capacity of per day. The facility is owned by Flint Hills Resources (FHR), a subsidiary of Koch Industries.\n\nThe plant was first constructed in 1955 by the Great Northern Oil Company with a capacity of 25,000 barrels per day. Koch Industries purchased a controlling interest in the plant in 1969. Since then, capacity has grown more than tenfold.\n\nAs of 2001, Minnesotans were using a total of of gasoline per day, and fuel use continues to climb in the region by about 2% annually. About 70% of the gasoline fuel used in the state comes from Pine Bend and the nearby St. Paul Park Refinery, while most of the rest comes from the Mandan Refinery in North Dakota, and the Superior Refinery in Superior, Wisconsin. Only 40 to 50% of Pine Bend's output is used within the state.\n\nIn 2006 the plant underwent a \"$350 million project to produce a diesel fuel containing substantially less sulfur.\"\n\nIn 2012 the company proposed to the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) a $400 million upgrade to help move the refinery \"closer to its processing capacity of 320,000 barrels of crude per day and also reduce emissions of nitrogen oxide and sulfur dioxide\". It was estimated that the refinery was responsible for 2% of Minnesota's total greenhouse-gas emissions, about 3.5 million tons of carbon dioxide per year. The expansion is also expected to increase the \"average daily contract workforce to more than 1,000 workers\". If approved by the EPA, the upgrade is set to begin in 2014, and include the replacement of the plant's three less-efficient heaters with two state-of-the-art model heaters, upgrades to an existing process heater, as well as improvements to the cooling towers.\n\nThe site was placed on the National Priorities List in 1986, and recovery wells, ground water gradient control, and soil gas extraction were installed and implemented between 1988 and 2004 in order to recover any oil that had been spilled in the storage tank area of the 1,200 acre site during previous decades. Though FHR had paid almost $19 million in environmental fines in the 1990s and 2000, by 1999 the company had begun making changes to improve efficiency and minimize environmental impact. By 2005 the refinery was \"producing more gasoline, jet and other fuels while managing to cut harmful emissions into the air, water and ground by more than 50 percent since 1999\", and took first place in the annual Minnesota Environmental Initiative awards that year.\n\nThe Pine Bend refinery and the northern division of the Koch Pipeline Company won multiple awards in Occupational Safety from the Minnesota Safety Council since 2000, including the Governor's Safety Award for Outstanding Achievement. The awards recognized \"a sustained track record of safety performance,\" as exemplified by \"sustained reductions in OSHA recordable incidents by 86 percent at Pine Bend since 1993 and by 86 percent at Koch Pipeline Company's Northern Division since 1995.\"\n\nThe Pine Bend refinery also received four safety awards at the National Petrochemical and Refiners Association (NPRA) conference in 2001. It earned a Clear Air Award from the EPA in 2004 and a Special Recognition Certificate for its Clean Air Awards Program from the EPA in 2005. It also received the Minnesota Conservation Award from Xcel Energy for saving 8.7 million kilowatt hours during 2006. The refinery has been a MNSTAR-designated site since 2005, meaning that the Minnesota Department of Labor and Industry considers it a safe workplace with effective safety and health-management systems.\n\nThe refinery earned the Wastewater Treatment Facility Operational Award in 2011 and the Operator Award in 2010 from the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency. It has also earned several American Fuel and Petrochemical Manufacturers' safety awards, including Meritorious Safety Performance and Gold awards. FHR's products terminals in Minnesota have received the Platinum Safety Award from the International Liquid Terminals Association for their commitment to continuous safety improvement. Also, the Pine Bend refinery earned the Minnesota Safety Council's highest safety award, the Award of Honor for three consecutive years, in addition to winning the MSC's Outstanding Achievement Award.\n\nMost petroleum enters and exits the plant through a Koch-owned, 537-mile pipeline system that stretches across Minnesota and Wisconsin. 80% of the incoming oil is heavy crude from the Alberta Oil Sands in Canada and is brought from the northwest to the facility through the Lakehead and Minnesota pipelines. Additional crude comes from the south via the Wood River Pipeline, though plans are in place to reverse the flow of that line.\n\nThe plant has a dedicated pipeline to the Minneapolis-St. Paul International Airport that provides jet fuel for aircraft. Another major exit route for distilled products is the Wisconsin Pipeline, which brings fuel eastward into the neighboring state. Fuel is also distributed by semi-trailer trucks, railroad cars, and, occasionally, river barges. Pine Bend Refinery dredges sediment from the nearby Mississippi River to ensure that its barges don't bottom out.\n\n"}
{"id": "2132274", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2132274", "title": "J. Edward Bromberg", "text": "J. Edward Bromberg\n\nJoseph Edward Bromberg (born Josef Bromberger, December 25, 1903 – December 6, 1951) was a Austro-Hungarian-born American character actor in motion picture and stage productions dating mostly from the 1930s and 1940s.\n\nBorn to a Jewish family in Temeschburg (Temesvár), Austria-Hungary (now Timișoara, Romania), Bromberg was 11 months old when his parents, Herman and Josephine Roth Bromberg, emigrated to the United States with him in the second cabin class on the S/S \"Graf Waldersee\", which sailed from Cuxhaven, Germany, 18 March 1905 and arrived at the Port of New York, 31 March. They settled in New York City. After graduating from Stuyvesant High School, he attended City College of New York for two years and then went to work to help pay for acting lessons with the Russian coach Leo Bulgakov, who had trained with Konstantin Stanislavski.\n\nBy virtue of his physique, the short, somewhat rotund actor was destined to play secondary roles. Bromberg made his stage debut at the Greenwich Village Playhouse and in 1926 made his first appearance in a Broadway play, \"Princess Turandot\". The following year, Bromberg married Goldie Doberman, with whom he had three children.\n\nOccasionally credited as J.E. Bromberg\"'\" and Joseph Bromberg, he performed secondary roles in 35 Broadway productions and 53 motion pictures until 1951. For two decades, Bromberg was highly regarded in the New York theatrical world and was a founding member of the Civic Repertory Theatre (1928–1930) and of the Group Theatre (1931–1940).\n\nBromberg made his screen debut in 1936 under contract to Twentieth Century-Fox. The versatile actor played a wide variety of roles ranging from a ruthless New York newspaper editor (in \"Charlie Chan on Broadway\") to a despotic Arabian sheik (in \"Mr. Moto Takes a Chance\"). Although he spoke with no trace of an accent, he was often called upon to play humble immigrants of various nationalities. When Warner Oland, the actor who played Charlie Chan, died in 1938, Fox considered Bromberg as a suitable replacement, but the role ultimately went to Sidney Toler. Fox began loaning Bromberg to other studios in 1939 and finally dropped him from the roster in 1941. He kept working for various producers, including a stint at Universal Pictures in the mid-1940s.\n\nBromberg's most outstanding attribute was his facility with sensitive character roles; he could take a standard, undistinguished supporting part and make it unforgettably sympathetic. In \"Hollywood Cavalcade\" he portrays Don Ameche's friend who knows he will never get the girl; in \"Three Sons\" he is the lowly business associate who longs to be given a partnership; in \"Easy to Look At\" he is the once-great couturier now reduced to night watchman.\n\nIn September 1950, the anti-communist magazine \"Red Channels\" accused Bromberg of being a member of the American Communist Party. Subpoenaed to testify before the House Committee on Un-American Activities in June 1951, Bromberg refused to answer any questions in accordance with his Fifth Amendment rights. As a result, he was blacklisted from working in Hollywood. He suffered enormous stress from the ordeal; friends, such as Lee Grant, noted that he aged considerably in a very short time. \n\nIn 1951 Bromberg sought work in England, but died within the year of a heart attack while working in the London play \"The Biggest Thief in Town\". He was just a few weeks short of his 48th birthday.\n\nIn 1952, he and seven other Group Theater members were named by Elia Kazan as Communist Party members in testimony before the House Un-American Activities Committee.\n\n"}
{"id": "2132287", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2132287", "title": "Etodolac", "text": "Etodolac\n\nEtodolac is a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID).\nIt was patented in 1971 and approved for medical use in 1985. It was approved in the U.S. in 1991. As of 2015 the cost for a typical month of medication in the United States is less than US$25.\n\nNSAIDs are used for the management of mild to moderate pain, fever, and inflammation. They work by reducing the levels of prostaglandins, which are chemicals that are responsible for pain and the fever and tenderness that occur with inflammation. Etodolac blocks the cyclooxygenase (abbrev. COX) enzymes which form prostanoids, resulting in lower concentrations of prostaglandins. As a consequence, inflammation, pain and fever are reduced.\n\nPost-marketing studies demonstrated that etodolac inhibition of cyclooxygenase is somewhat COX-2 selective similar to celecoxib and other \"COX-2 inhibitors.\" Unlike rofecoxib, both etodolac and celecoxib can fully inhibit COX-1 and are designated as having \"preferential selectivity\" toward COX-2. The R-enantiomer of etodolac is inactive against COX enzymes, but inhibits beta-catenin levels in hepatoma cells.\n\nIn the UK, Etodolac is licensed for the treatment of inflammation and pain caused by osteoarthritis and rheumatoid arthritis.\n\nEtodolac should be avoided by patients with a history of asthma attacks, hives, or other allergic reactions to aspirin or other NSAIDs. Rare but severe allergic reactions have been reported in such individuals. It also should be avoided by patients with peptic ulcer disease or poor kidney function, since this medication can worsen both conditions. Etodolac is used with caution in patients taking blood thinning medications (anticoagulants), such as warfarin (Coumadin), because it increases the risk of bleeding. Patients taking both lithium and etodolac may develop toxic blood lithium levels. Additionally, etodolac has been found to interact with certain anti-depressant medications, such as sertraline or fluoxetine, which can increase risks of stroke, heart attack, and other cardiovascular conditions. Patients also taking ciclosporin (Sandimmune) can develop kidney toxicity. Use in children has not been adequately studied. Etodolac is not habit-forming. NSAIDs should be discontinued prior to elective surgery because of a mild interference with clotting that is characteristic of this group of medicines. Etodolac is best discontinued at least four days in advance of surgery. Etodolac metabolites may also cause a false positive bilirubin result on a urinalysis test. \n\nEtodolac is generally avoided during pregnancy and nursing. NSAIDs may cause adverse cardiovascular effects in the fetus during pregnancy.\nEtodolac is manufactured by Almirall Limited under the trade name \"Lodine SR\" and by Meda Pharmaceuticals under the name \"Eccoxolac\". Generic etodolac is also available.\n\nThe drug is also sold under several other brand names, including:\n\n"}
{"id": "2132292", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2132292", "title": "Simcha Bunim of Peshischa", "text": "Simcha Bunim of Peshischa\n\nAdmor Simcha Bunim Bonhart of Peshischa (Yiddish: רבי שמחה בונם בונהרד מפשיסחא; born - September 4, 1827) also known as the Rebbe Reb Bunim was the First Grand Rabbi of Przysucha as well as one of the key leaders of Hasidic Judaism in Poland. His teachings are the foundation for Kotzk Hasidism and to an extent, Ger Hasidism, Amshinov Hasidism, Zychlin Hasidism, Aleksander Hasidism and Izhbitza-Radzin Hasidism. He was instrumental in challenging the Hasidic status quo as well as popularizing the Peshischa school of Hasidic thought. He is known for controversially emphasizing the importance of the individual in regards to one's personal relationship to God which is now a defining feature of several Hassidic movements. \n\nBorn in Będzin, Poland, his father Rabbi Tzvi Hersh Bonhart was the Maggid of Voydislav, and his mother Sarah Rachel Sirkis was the 5th great-granddaughter of Rabbi Joel Sirkis, a descendent of Rashi through his daughter Yocheved and thus an alleged member of the Davidic Line. In his early years, Simcha Bunim learnt under his father's supervision later studying Torah under Rabbi Jeremiah Rosenbaum in Mattersdorf, Austria and Mordecai Benet in Nikolsburg, Czechia. He later attained some notable wealth working as an agent for Temerl Bergson, who hired Simcha Bunim to represent her at a sizeable trading fair in Leipzig, Germany. It was in Leipzig that he obtained additional secular schooling, studying pharmacology, European languages and science. He later returned to his hometown of Będzin, where he married Rivka Orberger . It was her father Rabbi Moshe of Będzin who introduced the young and highly educated Simcha Bunim to Hasidism. In his earlier years he became a follower of several major Hasidic leaders of his day, such as Rabbi Yisroel Hopstein, Rabbi Yaakov Yitzchak of Lublin, and most notably Rabbi Yaakov Yitzchak Rabinowicz (the Holy Jew of Peshischa) who took a great liking to the young Simcha Bunim. After several years under the rabbinic supervision of the Holy Jew, in 1813, after his death, Simcha Bunim was made his direct successor, thus becoming the Peshischa Rebbe. From that point onward he was referred to as the Rebbe Reb Bunim. \n\nRabbi Simcha Bunim was an atypical Chasidic master, after succeeding the Holy Jew, Simcha Bunim brought Peshischa to its highest point and he kickstarted a counter-revolutionary movement which challenged the Hasidic norm. Unlike many Hasidic Rabbis at the time, Simcha Bunim didn't believe in dynasties and thought communal rabbis should be appointed based on religious merit, a sentiment influenced by the Holy Jew, because of this, Simcha Bunim's family line did not necessary continue to occupy his position. Additionally, he unprecedentedly refused the monetary pay of the rabbinical position, supporting himself by practicing as an apothecary. A highly controversial aspect of his life, that is still a taboo is some Ultra-Orthodox Hassidic communities. Simcha Bunim tenure as the Peshischa Rebbe is defined by controversial and highly innovative actions which challenged the conservative Hassidic statues qua. \n\nDuring the early part of the nineteenth century, when the center of the Hasidic world was in Poland, Simcha Bunim transformed the Peshischa school of Hasidism into a major movement and thus rose to become a, if not the, dominant personality in the Hasidic community of his time. The Peshischa school of Hasidism believed that service of God demanded both passion and analytical study. During his time, there was little or no study of Kabbalah and the emphasis was not on trying to understand God, but on trying to understand the human being. It was clear to him that one could not stand with any sense of integrity before the God unless one first had some clarity of who one really was. Directly or indirectly, Simcha Bunim had declared an internal war upon the Hasidic leadership of his time. Contemporary Hasidic leaders saw his emphasis on individualism as a form of Hedonism, while Simcha Bunim insisted that, for one to fulfill the Mitzvot, they must first work on themselves, and that by working to better one's self, one fulfills a major mitzvah, in his own right. There are six main principles which defined him and his school of thought. \n\nSimcha Bunim believed that Religion was not simply an act of adopting a system of beliefs and certain modes of conduct. He believed that test and trial were needed, and one had to ascertain through introspection whether one's beliefs were genuine or not, and whether one acted out truth or lived a life of pretense. He encouraged questioning and reflection; he was not afraid of doubts, of deliberations that might lead one astray. To him simplicity could be dishonesty in disguise, naïveté - a camouflage for self-deception. \n\nOne of the famous saying of Simcha Bunim is that the source of authenticity lies within the heart. Simcha Bunim once famously commentated on Deuteronomy 4:29 (\"But if from there you seek the Lord your God, you will find him if you seek him with all your heart and with all your soul\") saying \"The real truth is literally in its place – that is to say, in his heart. For when a person properly purifies his character traits, he will find the Divine in his heart. And that is the “finding,” for you should know that you don’t need to inquire about God, to seek and search from anywhere, except in your heart and soul.” Kol Simcha, Vaeschanon, 107 On another occasion, Simcha Bunim was quoted as saying \"A person must not search for the truth by imitating another, however pious, but rather by going inside his inner being. By the term authenticity we mean, therefore, the process by which the treasure is revealed within the person. It is not a sanction for self-indulgence, but rather a process of refinement which reveals one's soul - it is like tracing the footprints of the Divine in one's being. A person tends to try to bribe G-d with his religious behavior. His piety can be motivated by what others think or say. But to be authentic begins with awareness of one's weakness and frailty and to strive to eliminate base motives in the service of G-d.\n\nA common belief preached by Simcha Bunim, originally inspired by the Holy Jew was that the intellect is not limited to a narrow definition of the Torah. Just as prayer cannot be limited alone to the narrow definition of a ritual act, so to is service of God via the mind an entire state of being. Simcha Bunim taught that studying Torah extends to using one's intellect in general. Moreover, one begins to understand oneself, by means of intellect and introspection, again tying back to the ideals of individualism. \n\nIn Simcha Bunim's time, many Hassidic communities were solely lead by a Rabbi who was often Dynastically appointed. The Rabbi would be the Municipal and moral fiber of the community. This was not the case in Peshischa, Simcha Bunim strongly believed in teaching his followers how to think, critically and how to be independent from him. He believed the role of the Rabbi was that of a teacher and not of an enforcer, stating that \"the role of the Rabbi is to help the disciple develop his own sense of autonomy. Those students who are unable to accept responsibility for themselves are not fit to be part of Peshischa\". This is one of his more controversial beliefs, which often find proponents in Ultra Orthodox, Hassidic dynasties.\n\nOne of Simcha Bunim's most famous teachings surrounding conformity is as follows; \"Equanimity, which flows from the quest for authenticity, can be expressed both positively and negatively. Positively, it means \"I know who I am irrespective of how I am perceived by others,\" or possibly \"I don't care how I am perceived by others.\" Negatively, it means, \"I am antagonistic to the whole apparatus which doesn't judge a person for what he really is.\" This motif is a defining feature of Simcha Bunim's dogma. Once again emphasizing the individual over the collective. \n\nAccording to Simcha Bunim the greatest sin for a Jew was to appear to be pious publicly. He once said; \"What is the difference between the Hasidim of Peshischa and other Hasidim? The latter perform the commandments openly but commit transgressions in secret, while the Hasidim of Peshischa commit transgressions openly and perform the commandments secretly.\" Simcha Bunim believed that those who tried to seem pious publicly were unauthentic, and were denying the fact that all people struggle and sin. He believed that if you have short comings that you are working on, areas that you have weakness’s, rather than hiding them and pretending to be holier than others, one should be honest and humble with others. \n\nAs previously mentioned Simcha Bunim didn't believe in dynasties, and thus none of his children started dynasties of their own, unlike some of his followers. Simcha Bunim had three known children with his wife Rivka. His oldest son Rabbi Avraham Moshe Bonhart (1800-1828) continued his position as the Peshischa Rebbe, although he was appointed this position by his community and died only a year after his father. His first daughter Beyla Esteraycher (1809-1830) eventually moved to Warsaw, and his second daughter Libah Dancyger (d.1833) eventually moved to Kielce.\n\nAmong his devout followers were;\n\n\nBecause his followers where some of the most influential figures in Hasidism, some consider Simcha Bunim as the father of modern Hasidism. \n\nDuring his life, Simcha Bunim wrote no works of his own, but many of his teachings were transmitted orally and published, later on after his death. The following are collections of Simcha Bunim's teachings:\n\n"}
{"id": "2132294", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2132294", "title": "Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act of 1996", "text": "Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act of 1996\n\nThe Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act of 1996 (IIRIRA or IIRAIRA), Division C of , made major changes to the Immigration and Nationality Act (INA) of the United States, which the bill's proponents argued was mainly due to the rapidly growing undocumented immigrant population in the country. \"These IIRIRA changes became effective on April 1, 1997.\"\n\nAmong the obvious changes made by IIRIRA, the U.S. Congress expanded the definition of the term aggravated felony by entailing a great many more crimes, but at the same time it explicitly stated that the term \"aggravated felony\" must be applied only to convictions \"for which the term of imprisonment was completed within the previous 15 years.\" This appears to be perfectly consistent with \"the Fifth, Eighth and 14th Amendments to the Constitution,\" including with the United Nations Convention against Torture (CAT).\n\nIIRIRA combined the former \"deportation proceedings\" and \"exclusion proceedings\" into a single removal proceedings, which begin in immigration courts and may reach all the way up to the U.S. Supreme Court. In the meantime, Congress reaffirmed its historical statutory and mandatory relief to everyone who was admitted to the United States as a refugee under 8 U.S.C. § 1157(c). Every illegal alien convicted of any aggravated felony is to be placed in expedited removal proceedings. In exceptional circumstances, the removal proceedings can be reopened at any time and even from outside the United States. This was never clarified prior to IIRIRA.\n\nPresident William J. Clinton asserted that the legislation strengthened “the rule of law by cracking down on illegal immigration at the border, in the workplace, and in the criminal justice system — without punishing those living in the United States legally”. Some critics have argued it punished US citizens and noncitizens of all statuses \"by eliminating due process from the overwhelming majority of removal cases and curtailing equitable relief from removal.\"\n\nAmong other changes, IIRIRA gave the U.S. Attorney General broad authority to construct barriers along the border between the United States and Mexico, and it authorized the construction of a secondary layer of border fencing to support the already completed 14-mile primary fence. Construction of the secondary fence stalled because of environmental concerns raised by the California Coastal Commission.\n\nAccording to the INA, the terms \"inadmissible aliens\" and \"deportable aliens\" are synonymous. A lawful permanent resident (LPR) can either be an \"alien\" or a \"national of the United States,\" which requires a case-by-case analysis and depends mainly on the number of continuous years he or she has spent in the United States as a legal immigrant (green card holder). IIRIRA sufficiently protected every American against deportation from United States.\n\nIn IIRIRA, Congress expressly states that the aggravated felony definition must be applied retroactively to all persons, and reaffirms its historical statutory and mandatory relief to those persons who were admitted to the United States as refugees under 8 U.S.C. § 1157(c), even if they have been convicted of a particularly serious crime.\n\nThe Board of Immigration Appeals (BIA) and the U.S. courts of appeals have held that for purposes of cancellation of removal and waivers of inadmissibility, the \"stop-time rule\" does not apply to any alien who committed his or her crime prior to April 1, 1997. In other words, an LPR who committed a crime before IIRIRA's effective date was still effectively an LPR. This does not come into conflict with the aggravated felony definition, which plainly requires a conviction (not commission).\n\nIn \"INS v. St. Cyr\" (2001), the U.S. Supreme Court held that Congress had not intended IIRIRA to be applied retroactively against all past criminal convictions. The BIA extended relief against deportation to green card holders who had been convicted of an aggravated felony prior to April 1, 1997. This BIA decision, however, plainly contradicts IIRIRA, which expressly states the following:\n\n\"The ordinary meaning of 'notwithstanding' is 'in spite of,' or 'without prevention or obstruction from or by.'\" IIRIRA's mandatory detention provisions have also been repeatedly challenged, with less success. The Reed Amendment (a provision of IIRIRA which excludes from the United States those people whom the Attorney General finds to have renounced American citizenship in order to avoid payment of taxes) also has been attacked as unconstitutional.\n\nIn \"Zadvydas v. Davis\" (2001), the Supreme Court curtailed the government's ability to hold aliens in removal proceedings indefinitely. A similar detention issue was addressed in \"Jennings v. Rodriguez\" (2018).\n\nIIRIRA addressed the relationship between federal and local governments. Section 287(g) of the Act allows the U.S. Attorney General to enter into agreements with state and local law enforcement agencies, permitting designated officers to perform immigration law enforcement functions pursuant to a Memorandum of Agreement. The Section does not simply deputize state and local law enforcement personnel to enforce immigration matters. This provision had been implemented by local and state authorities in five states (California, Arizona, Alabama, Florida, and North Carolina) by the end of 2006.\n\nUpon passage of this law, states were restricted from offering in-state tuition at public institutions to students who were not legally in the country. Specifically, if a state allows undocumented immigrant students to be eligible for in-state tuition, then residents from other states must also be eligible for in-state tuition. Several states have passed tuition-equality laws by allowing anyone regardless of legal status to apply for in-state tuition if they meet the state's eligibility requirements.\n\nA 2018 paper found that the Act reduced the health and mental health outcomes of Latin-American undocumented immigrants in the United States by escalating their fear that they would be deported.\n\n\n\"This article in most part is based on law of the United States, including statutory and latest published case law.\"\n"}
{"id": "2132303", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2132303", "title": "Lodine", "text": "Lodine\n\nLodine () is a town and \"comune\" in the province of Nuoro, Sardinia, Italy.\n"}
{"id": "2132309", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2132309", "title": "Noel Mason-MacFarlane", "text": "Noel Mason-MacFarlane\n\nLieutenant General Sir Frank Noel Mason-MacFarlane (23 October 1889 – 12 August 1953) was a senior British Army officer, administrator and politician who served as Governor of Gibraltar during the Second World War.\n\nFrank Noel Mason was born on 23 October 1889, the son of a doctor. His father was convinced that war between Germany and Great Britain was inevitable and joined the Territorial Army to work as an Army doctor. As a result, his father was frequently absent, and a major influence on him when growing up was a German governess hired by his father. Mason-MacFarlane was educated at Rugby School and, after attending the Royal Military Academy, Woolwich, was commissioned as a second lieutenant into the Royal Artillery in 1909. Until February 1909, his surname was Mason, but he hyphened it that month to Mason-MacFarlane out of pride in his Scottish heritage as MacFarlane was the maiden name of his Scots mother.\n\nHe served in the First World War on the Western Front and in Mesopotamia. An intense individualist, Mason-MacFarlane's experience as a young artillery officer left him a reputation as an officer who was always ready to \"look out for trouble\" and who had a profound distrust of the higher command. A non-conformist, he was for known for his love of amateur theatrical acting, sports and for writing sarcastic doggerel poems mocking the high command. In the winter of 1915–16, he served with the relief forces involved in the bloody fighting outside of Kut as the British sought to unsuccessfully rescue the Indian 6th Division besieged by the Ottomans inside Kut. He was awarded the Military Cross in 1916, a bar to the award in 1918 (gazetted in September) and a second Bar in the same year, awarded while he was attached to the Artillery Headquarters of the 41st Division, the most junior Kitchener's Army division. The citation for the second Bar was published in a supplement to the \"London Gazette\" on 2 December 1918, and reads:\n\nMason-MacFarlane was also awarded the French Croix de guerre and mentioned in despatches during the First World War.\n\nBetween the wars he attended the Staff College, Quetta from 1919 to 1920. At Quetta, his evaluation upon graduation declared his ability as \"above that of any of his fellow students\", through his judgement was described as only \"fairly good ... rather immature and lacking balance\". Afterwards, he served on regimental duties, before attending the Imperial Defence College, a prestigious posting for the most promising officers, in 1935. In 1931, after spending most of the preceding ten years in India, he was appointed military attaché to Hungary, Austria and Switzerland. The director of M3, the intelligence section of the War Office dealing with Central Europe wrote in an evaluation of Mason-MacFarlane: \"He combines a first-class brain with a remarkable flair for intelligence work. He has a keen sense of humour and is an excellent linguist. Full of mental and physical energy and with great initiative...he should go far\". A lover of fast cars, he was badly injured in a car clash in 1933 that left him with spinal pain for the rest of his life. In 1934, Mason-MarFarlane returned to Great Britain.\n\nHe served as Britain's military attaché to Berlin prior to the Second World War, under the ambassador Sir Nevile Henderson starting in January 1938. Additionally he served as military attaché to Hungary, Austria, Switzerland and Denmark, In his favourite Ford V-8 coupe, Mason-MacFarlane went out to personally observe the \"Anschluss\" and to investigate the German-Czechoslovak border region during the May Crisis. His reports during the May Crisis that he found no evidence of an imminent German invasion of Czechoslovakia did much to cool down the heated atmosphere during the weekend of 20–22 May 1938. \"Mason-Mac\" as he was known to his colleagues in the embassy in Berlin was viewed as an eccentric with some like Sir Walford Selby, the ambassador in Vienna, praising him for his \"consistently good advice\" while others like Sir Alexander Cadogan, the Permanent Undersecretary at the Foreign Office, regarded him as reckless and too easily excited. The British historian D. C. Watt called Mason-MacFarlane a \"courageous eccentric\" who very much wanted to assassinate Hitler.\n\nOn 27 July 1938, Mason-MacFarlane reported to Henderson that the Wehrmacht was preparing for a war against Czechoslovakia, stating in a report that the Wehrmacht generals were \"seeing to it that if the emergency arises their preparations shall not be found wanting\". Henderson passed on Mason-MacFarlane's report to London, but stated he did not believe that Hitler was preparing to invade Czechoslovakia. On 3 August 1938, Henderson reported to the Foreign Secretary, Lord Halifax that up to 8 German divisions had been sent to the German-Czechoslovak border, but he believed that this was a bluff on the part of Hitler to pressure President Benes of Czechoslovakia to grant autonomy to the Sudetenland. In his own report, Mason-MacFarlane wrote the test mobilisations be performed by the Wehrmacht were \"desperately provocative. It is hard to see how Czechoslovakia can fail to mobilise in reply\". Henderson sent Mason-MacFarlane to London the next day to \"discuss the extent and significance of German military preparations\". During his visit to London, Mason-MacFarlane met Lord Halifax; Sir Robert Vansittart, Chief Foreign Policy Adviser; and Sir Horace Wilson, Chief Industrial Adviser and a close friend of the Prime Minister Neville Chamberlain. Halifax wanted Mason-MacFarlane to take back a personal message to Hitler, a course of action which he rejected as a \"waste of time\".\n\nDuring his time in London, \"Mason-Mac\" made clear to both the Foreign Office and War Office his disagreements with Henderson, predicating that Germany was definitely preparing to invade Czechoslovakia that year. Upon his report to Berlin, on 8 August 1938, Mason-MacFarlane met Victor von Koerber, a retired officer and Berlin correspondent of the \"Wiener Journal\", who had excellent contacts with the German General Staff. Koerber told him that Germany was going to invade Czechoslovakia in late September 1938. Koerber arrived unannounced at Mason-MacFarlane's office with his warnings that the General Staff were opposed to a war with Czechoslovakia and would very much welcomed statements once again reciting London's willingness to defend Czechoslovakia. Mason-MacFarlane dismissed Koerber as an \"agent provocateur\". The German General Staff, opposed to a \"premature\" world war, had sought to persuade Hitler to put off the invasion of Czechoslovakia under the grounds that it was likely to cause a world war before Germany was properly prepared. Unable to persuade Hitler, the General Staff had turned towards Britain as their best hope of stopping a \"premature\" world war. Mason-MacFarlane recognised he was being used as a pawn in an internal German policy dispute, writing \"any bungling of an attempt to interfere from without with Germany's domestic politics during Hitler's lifetime would most assuredly lead to exactly what we all wished to avoid\".\n\nA week later, Mason-MacFarlane changed his mind, saying that British would not \"be justified in supposing that Herr Hitler has made up his mind to go to war this autumn\". Henderson believed that Hitler was bluffing, only seeking to pressure Czechoslovakia to change its policies towards the Sudeten Germans under the grounds the Germany was still not ready for the world war that was likely to result from an attack on Czechoslovakia while Mason-MacFarlane believed that Hitler was serious about war with Czechoslovakia sometime in the near future. Henderson in a dispatch to Lord Halifax stated that the two options open to Britain were either to repeat the warning of 21 May 1938 that Britain would go to war if Germany invaded Czechoslovakia or alternatively to pressure President Benes to implement the conclusions of the Runciman Mission. Mason-MacFarlane preferred the former while Henderson preferred the latter. On 21 August 1938, Mason-MacFarlane met an agent of Colonel Hans Oster, the deputy chief of the \"Abwehr\", who told him of \"Fall Grün\" (Case Green), the plan to invade Czechoslovakia. For the first time, Mason-MacFarlane learned that Hitler planned to invade Czechoslovakia on 1 October 1938 and of his belief that neither Britain nor France would do nothing in the event of the invasion. Henderson in his comments on the report wrote that it was \"clearly biased and largely propaganda\". In late August, Mason-MacFarlene submitted a report to Henderson declaring that if Britain made an alliance with Czechoslovakia that this offered 'an outside possibility that we might avert or at any rate postpone catastrophe\".\n\nOn 23 September 1938, the outcome of the Chamberlain-Hitler summit at Bad Godesberg ended with Hitler rejecting the Anglo-French plan for the cession of the Sudetenland as taking too long and demanded the region \"go home to the \"Reich\"\" immediately, a demand that Chamberlain in turn rejected. In the tense atmosphere with Germany and Britain on the verge of war, Wilson was left behind by Chamberlain in Berlin to try to keep the lines of communication open. Mason-MacFarlane was sent by Henderson and Wilson to deliver a message to text of Hitler's Bad Godesberg ultimatum to Prague but the German-Czechoslovak border was closed, forcing him to cross the frontier by a forest path. While crossing the frontier, he was caught up in the barbed wire, and a nervous young Czechoslovak soldier helped untangle him instead of challenging him, an experience that left with the conviction that Czech morale was poor. During his journey through the Sudetenland, he had to dodge bullets as he witnessed fighting between the Nazi \"Sudeten Freikorps\" and the Czechoslovak police and army.\n\nUpon reaching Prague and after delivering the message to President Benes, \"Mason-Mac\" telegraphed a cable to London stating based upon what he had seen in the Sudetenland that the Czechoslovak Army was suffering from low morale and would swiftly collapse if Germany invaded. Colonel H.C.T Stronge, the British military attache in Prague very strongly disagreed with Mason-MacFarlane's assessment of the Czechoslovak Army. Wilson saw Mason-MacFarlane's report predicating that Czechoslovakia would last a few days against the Wehrmacht as a reason not to go to war with Germany and circulated it widely through the corridors of Whitehall. From Berlin, Wilson telegraphed Chamberlain: \"Military attache has just returned from Czechoslovakia and is convinced that resistance will prove feeble. This must be known to the French too and to the Czech General Staff as it is clearly known here\". When Wilson returned to London on 27 September 1938, he took Mason-MacFarlane with him, straight to a cabinet meeting at 10 Downing Street. Mason-MacFarlane told the cabinet: \"It would be very rash to base any policy on the assumption that the Czechs would fight like tigers\". Cadogan wrote in his diary about the impact of Mason-MacFarlane's presentation to the cabinet: \"Unfortunately Mason-Macfarlane (MA in Berlin) also here and he painted a gloomy picture of Czech morale. What does he know about it? Also meeting with Chiefs of Staff who were called in. Not very reassuring...all this produced a glacial period in Ministerial feet\". General Sir Henry Pownall, the Director of Military Operations and Intelligence wrote in his diary: \"We were much influenced by the views of Mason-Macfarlane who flew over from Berlin that afternoon [27 September] - he has done noble work.\" On 30 September 1938, the Munich Agreement put an end to the crisis which had pushed Europe to the brink of war. After the Munich Agreement, Mason-MacFarlane served as part of the Anglo-German-French-Italian commission which had the duty of deciding how much of the Sudetenland would go to Germany. In the months\n\nFrom October 1938-February 1939, Henderson was in London being treated for the cancer which was to kill him in 1942. During this time, the chargé d'affaires, Sir George Ogilvie-Forbes was in charge of the British embassy in Berlin, and used his position to \"educate\" the British cabinet about Germany. In this period, Mason-MacFarlane became an ally against the ambassador, Sir Nevile Henderson, whose views about the Nazi regime were not shared by either men. On the night of 9 November 1938, \"Mason-Mac\" witnessed the \"Kristallnacht\" (\"night of broken glass\") pogrom in Berlin, where the homes and businesses of Jews were looted and vandalised while Jews were beaten up and sometimes killed. \"Kristallnacht\" repulsed and disgusted him, adding to his dislike of the Nazi regime. On 2 January 1939, Ogilvie-Forbes very strongly endorsed a report from Mason-MacFarlane stating that the German economy was being organised for \"total war\" and Hitler would almost certainly invade one of his neighbours in 1939. Mason-MacFarlane stated the German economy was on \"full throttle\" for war and Hitler would probably invade an Eastern European state in 1939, through he also stated there was a strong possibility of Hitler attacking a Western European state. Mason-MacFarlane dismissed the possibility of an internal revolt toppling Hitler, saying that there were many brave Germans opposed to the Nazi dictatorship, but unfortunately the Nazi regime was an effective police state together with the loyalty of the majority of the Wehrmacht to Hitler meant that there was no hope of him being overthrown. William Strang of the Foreign Office called this dispatch \"excellent\". The possibility of Hitler attacking the Low Countries and/or France that Mason-MacFarlane had warned about had more impact on the British cabinet than did his warnings of aggression in Eastern Europe, and changed Britain's policies towards France. Henderson upon his return to the British Embassy on 13 February 1939 stated that henceforward all dispatches from Berlin had to conform to his views. In protest, Mason-MacFarlane wrote: \"we remained in disagreement with his views on Hitler and on the course which Nazi Germany was likely to pursue\". On 3 March 1939, Mason-MacFarlane first reported to London that he heard reports that the Wehrmacht had started stockpiling supplies in areas near the Polish border with the order that these be completed by 28 March.\n\nAfter the German occupation of the Czech half of the rump state of Czecho-Slovakia on 15 March 1939, Mason-MacFarlane's reporting from Berlin took a very hawkish tone and several times he suggested a \"preventive war\" against Germany. Cadogan in his diary accused him of \"rather hysterical outpouring\". He also became an advocate of an \"Eastern Front\" policy, arguing that the \"Reich\" by seizing the heavily industrialised Czech lands had just gained a massive lead in the arms race and to allow Germany to seize more of Eastern Europe would make the German economy more or less \"blockade-proof\". In particular, Mason-MacFarlane argued that Britain needed alliances with Poland and Romania, stating both had excellent farmland that could feed Germany in the event of a British blockade while Romania was also well endowed with oil. On 25 March 1939, Mason-MacFarlane reported to London: \"Germany risks defeat only if confronted by two-front war and blockade. Such blockade can only be rapidly effective if Germany's eastern front is on or close to her present frontier and if she has to gain and hold resources essential to her powers of resistance\". Mason-MacFarlane that wrote if Britain failed to secure the immediate assistance of Poland and Romania, then Germany would be fighting a \"one-front war\" with all the resources of the Protectorate of Bohemia-Moravia, Poland, and Romania to support the Wehrmacht. Mason-MacFarlane concluded that the \"Reich\" would be unable to fight a \"two-front war\" and would be forced to yield rather face a war in the \"most unfavourable circumstances; it was time for Britain to force Germany to back away from its plans for expansion.\"\n\nIan Colvin, a British journalist who was the Berlin correspondent of \"The News Chronicle\" and who served as an informer for the private intelligence network maintained by Vansittart, sent a series of inaccurate reports to the British government in February–March 1939 warning of an imminent German invasion of Poland in the spring of 1939 or alternatively that Poland was about to sign an alliance with the \"Reich\" to allow passage of the Wehrmacht to conquer the Baltic states. Mason-MacFarlane added greatly to Colvin's credibility when he endorsed his reports, saying Colvin was a reliable source of information about Germany. Owing to the endorsement of Mason-MacFarlane, Colvin was able to see Cadogan on 29 March 1939 where he presented circumstantial evidence that Germany was preparing to invade Poland. Parts of the Colvin report were genuine, as it presented verbatim the orders issued by Field Marshal Walther von Brauchitsch on 27 March 1939 for the Wehrmacht to move divisions to the Polish border. Other parts of the Colvin report such as the claim that Germany was going invade Poland in April 1939 were erroneous. On 29 March, Mason-MacFarlane in support of Colvin that he it was established that arms depots were set up in East Pomerania and stated that \"well informed army and SS sources\" indicated to him that an invasion of Poland was planned for late April 1939. In London, Colvin warned that Hitler was planning to conquer Poland, then Lithuania, in order to plunder their resources to prepare for \"the ultimate goal\" of a war to destroy the British empire. Cadogan was so impressed with Colvin's information that he took him to see both Lord Halifax and Chamberlain the same day. Chamberlain stated that story told by Colvin was \"so fantastic as to doubt its reliability\", but similar reports from Mason-MacFarlane in Berlin forced the hand of the Chamberlain government into making the famous \"guarantee\" of Poland on 31 March 1939. In a letter to his sister, Chamberlain wrote that it was the \"Colvin report\" together with information from other sources that led him to agree to Lord Halifax's idea of the \"guarantee\" of Poland. \nMason-MacFarlane proposed the assassination of Adolf Hitler, an offer turned down by his superiors. The Foreign Secretary, Lord Halifax said of Mason-MacFarlane's plan to assassinate Hitler while he was on a stand reviewing the Wehrmacht for his 50th birthday celebrations on 20 April 1939: \"We have not reached that stage … when we have to use assassination as a substitute for diplomacy.\" Hitler for his part regarded Mason-MacFarlane as a personal enemy. To try to resolve the Danzig crisis, in May 1939, Pope Pius XII sent the Papal Nunico to Germany, Monsignor Cesare Orsenigo, to meet \"der Führer\" at Berchtesgaden to discuss a possible peaceful resolution to the crisis. Hitler told Orsenigo that he had no quarrel with Poland, and claimed that the chief trouble-maker in the world was Great Britain, which was \"inciting\" Poland against the \"Reich\" as the British had \"incited the Negroes of Abyssina against Italy, the Reds against Franco, Chiang Kai-shek against Japan, Czechoslovakia against Germany\" and even today Mason-MacFarlane was \"inciting\" trouble against him in Berlin. Hitler seems to have been referring to an incident just a few days before, where Mason-MacFarlane had very loudly stated at a party in Berlin attended by members of the German elite that Britain was committed to fighting against Germany's \"Machtpolitik\" (power politics), and if Germany wanted war, she would get it. General Gerhard von Schwerin, seeing Mason-MacFarlane's remarks as a way to persuade Hitler not to launch a \"premature\" war in 1939, met him to ask if he was speaking on behalf of himself or the British government. However, Schwerin offended \"Mason-Mac\" with his question, which he regarded as questioning his honour as an officer, and the meeting ended badly.\n\nIn late May 1939, Mason-MacFarlane was recalled from Berlin and promoted to the rank of Brigadier-General of Royal Artillery at Aldershot. By this time, he had ceased to be a source of information about Germany and more of an advocate of the particular policies he wanted Britain to follow, as he ventured into grand strategy, stating what policies he favoured as the best way of defeating Germany. The Canadian historian Wesley Wark wrote: \" Mason-Macfarlane represents the extreme case of a military attache who abandoned the uses of ambiguity in favour of single-minded and reductive reporting that made no effort to balance the strengths and weaknesses inherent in a military situation, or the gains and losses implied by a British response...He was influential, as we have seen, in the British decision not to back Czechoslovakia at the height of the Munich Crisis. He was equally influential in the British decision to support Poland and create an Eastern Front on her borders in March 1939. An Eastern Front designed to deter Hitler, based on Czechoslovakia and with the possibility of Russian assistance, had some chance of success. Such a front based on Poland and without Russian participation had not whatsoever\".\n\nAppointed a Companion of the Order of the Bath in the 1939 New Year Honours, Mason-MacFarlane was Director of Military Intelligence with the British Expeditionary Force (BEF) in 1939–40 and during the Battle of Dunkirk was operational commander of \"Mac Force,\" an improvised formation covering the British right flank. For his services, he was awarded the Distinguished Service Order.\n\nFrom July 1940 to March 1941, during the Second World War, Mason-Macfarlane was Second in Command of Gibraltar City and Garrison. This position allowed him to head the Joint Intelligence Centre. He was the head of a joint group of British Army, Royal Navy and Royal Air Force personnel whose role it would be to support General Franco if Spain were to be invaded by Germany. They were to assist the Spanish defence and, if the Spanish did not resist, then they were to create maximum damage.\n\nHe briefly served as General Officer Commanding (GOC) of the 44th (Home Counties) Division, a Territorial Army (TA) formation, from April to June 1941, before being appointed Head of the British Military Mission in Moscow, shortly after the German invasion of the Soviet Union. Appointed on 24 June 1941 and arriving in Moscow on 14 July 1941 to be greeted as a guest of honour by Stalin at the Kremlin, Mason-MacFarlane had great hopes of Anglo-Soviet cooperation, which were soon dashed as he learned that the xenophobic Soviet regime regarded him as a spy. Unlike the other British generals who expected the Soviet Union to collapse in the summer or autumn of 1941, Mason-MacFarlane had a higher opinion of the Red Army and consistently predicted that the Soviets would hold out. \"Mason-Mac\" described the morale of ordinary Russians as high, reporting to London that they were just as committed to victory as ordinary British people. Though relations with his Soviet counterparts were difficult, Mason-MacFarlane found ordinary Russians friendlier and he worked hard to assist the Soviets. He played a crucial role in negotiating the transfer of the so-called Anders' Army, made up of the surviving Polish POWs taken prisoner by the Red Army in 1939, who in March 1942 crossed over from the Soviet Union to Iran and from there travelled on to join the British 8th Army.\n\nHe was Governor of Gibraltar from 31 May 1942 to 14 February 1944, and witnessed the air crash there on 4 July 1943, which took the life of his friend the Polish Prime Minister Władysław Sikorski. Advanced to Knight Commander of the Order of the Bath in August 1943, Mason-MacFarlane was appointed a Commander of the Legion of Merit by the United States government the same month and made a Grand Cross of the Polish Order of Polonia Restituta in October.\n\nHe served as Chief Commissioner of the Allied Control Commission (ACC) for Italy in 1944, effectively head of the interim post-war government. The other commissioners on the ACC were Harold Macmillan, Robert Daniel Murphy, René Massigli and Andrey Vyshinsky. Mason-MacFarlane's relations with King Victor Emmanuel III of Italy were difficult with the king flying into a rage at their first meeting because he was wearing shorts and shirt sleeves, a choice of attire the king found disrespectful. In response to the king's demand that he came back wearing the full ceremonial uniform of a British Army general, Mason-MacFarlane stated as a British Army general that he was not subject to the authority of Italy and would wear whatever clothing he liked. In January 1944, he recommend that the Allies force Victor Emmanuel, who was extremely unpopular with the Italian people, to abdicate in favour of his son Crown Prince Umberto. Both the U.S. President Franklin Roosevelt and even more so the British Prime Minister Winston Churchill did not wish to press too strongly for the king to abdicate on the grounds that he still commanded the loyalty of what was left of the Italian armed forces.\n\nIn January 1944, the British psychologist I.G. Greenfield went to Bari to set up a radio station broadcasting anti-Nazi propaganda into German-occupied Italy and during his time in Bari, attended the Congress of Bari organised by the six main Italian political parties despite the fact that, as a civilian, this was illegal. Attending the congress, Greenfield was struck by how the prospect of \"liberation filled us with hope\" and that the people attending the congress all felt the end of Fascism not just in Italy but all over the world \"meant the beginning of a new and better world in which democratic values would reign triumphant\". For attending the Congress of Bari, Greenfield was arrested by the British military police and brought before Mason-MacFarlane who asked him to explain himself. After Greenfield talked about the optimistic mood at the congress of Bari, Mason-MacFarlane smiled, said he \"would had done the same thing\", and told Greenfield that no charges would be pressed against him. Greenfield who had been expecting \"Mason-Mac\" to be a conservative was surprised to find that for a British general he was a \"remarkably liberal-minded man\" who had much sympathy with the hopes of ordinary people for a better world after the war.\nThe United States and the United Kingdom favoured different policies for Italy with the Americans preferring social reforms and a republic while the British opposed reforms and wanted to keep the monarchy. From February 1944 onward, Mason-MacFarlane increasingly aligned himself with the American viewpoint on Italy, writing in his reports to London that Italy desperately needed social reforms and that the old Italian ruling class was too morally compromised with Fascism to provide the necessary leadership, advice that did not sit well with Churchill. On 21 February 1944, the king told Mason-MacFarlane that because the ACC had ended censorship of the press this had \"improperly\" allowed the Italian press to place him in a situation where he was \"to be openly discredited and attacked\". The king very reluctantly agreed to allow Crown Prince Umberto to become the lieutenant general of the realm with all the powers of the king, but sought in exchange a promise that the ACC impose censorship of criticism of the House of Savoy, a demand that Mason-MacFarlane rejected outright.\n\nWhen Victor Emmanuel appointed his son lieutenant general of the realm, he did so with bad grace, predicting that this would allow the Italian Communists to come to power on the grounds that his son was not qualified to exercise power. In a report of their last meeting, Mason-Macfarlane wrote that \"the king seems to have tried to make mischief to the end\". In June 1944, after the Allies liberated Rome, to prevent the emergence of a rival government in Italy, it was agreed that representatives of the National Liberation Committee (\"Comitato di Liberazione Nazionale\"-CLN) should enter the cabinet of Prime Minister Pietro Badoglio, which proved to be a problem when the CLN demanded a new prime minister. Badoglio was a general who had loyally served Mussolini until he was made the scapegoat for the failed invasion of Greece in 1940, and because of Fascist associations, was unacceptable to the CLN. By letting the CLN leaders meet in Rome, instead of keeping them out of the Eternal City as Churchill wanted, Mason-MacFarlane was quite consciously settling the crisis in motion. To resolve the crisis, Mason-MacFarlane first went to the Grand Hotel where the Roman leaders of the CLN were staying and learned from them that the moderate socialist Ivanoe Bonomi was an acceptable choice as prime minister. He then went to the Quirinal Palace to persuade Umberto to sacrifice Badoglio for the sake of national unity, and to appoint Bonomi as his successor. As a result, Umberto dismissed Badoglio and appointed Bonomi prime minister. The only concessions Mason-MacFarlane imposed on Umberto was that he vetoed the republican Count Carlo Sforza from joining the Bonomi cabinet as foreign minister and insisted that the service ministries be headed by service officers instead of civilians.\n\nCadogan wrote that Mason-MacFarlane had failed grievously in his duties, writing that he should had \"put the brake on hard\" and told the CLN leaders that they had to accept Badoglio as prime minister. Churchill who wanted Badoglio to continue as a prime minister, was furious when he learned that he had been sacked and he in his turn sacked Mason-MacFarlane as chief of the ACC. Churchill initially tried to restore Badoglio as prime minister, writing in a telegram to Stalin, seeking his support: \"Since when have we admitted the right of Italians to form any government they please?\" From Rome, Macmillan reported to Churchill that it was impossible \"to put Humpty Dumpty in his place again after our officers, MacFarlane and Sir Noel Charles have allowed him to tumble off again\". Roosevelt, who had long been uncomfortable with Badoglio as prime minister, backed Mason-MacFarlane with the president sending the prime minister a telegram on 15 June 1944 saying it would be a \"grave mistake\" for the Allies to try to reimpose Badolgio given the fact that the vast majority of Italians did not want him as their prime minister. Given that the United States backed Bonomi as prime minister, Churchill had no choice but to accept him as prime minister. Churchill blamed Mason-MacFarlane for the appointment of Bonomi, saying he would prevent him holding \"any post of the slightest military or political responsibility\" again. Mason-MacFarlane's decision to run as a Labour Party candidate in the 1945 election was related to his anger over the way Churchill had treated him in 1944.\n\nThe nature of Mason-MacFarlane's disagreements with Churchill came out most clearly in his post-war manuscript \"Draft Notes on Chapter 18 of Badoglio's \"Italy in the Second World War\"\". In the \"Draft Notes\", Mason-MacFarlane wrote that virtually everything Badoglio wrote in his memoirs was a lie, and argued, \"contra\" Churchill, that Badoglio was such a discredited figure in Italy that any government headed by him was morally illegitimate to the Italian people. He argued that the best hope of establishing a democracy in Italy was to appoint as prime minister someone like Bonomi who was not associated with the Fascist regime. On the whole, he was very critical of Churchill's approach in seeing the Italian monarchy and the continuation of the traditional elites in Italy as the best way of stopping the Italian Communists from coming to power after the war, writing that institutions require moral legitimacy to be accepted by the people, and the way in which Victor Emmanuel had associated with Fascism deprived the Italian Crown of its legitimacy.\n\nAt the 1945 general election, Mason-MacFarlane was elected as a Labour Member of Parliament for Paddington North, defeating Winston Churchill's close ally, Brendan Bracken. He left Parliament due to ill-health on 22 October 1946.\n\nIt was reported in \"Time\" magazine on 24 August 1953 that \"one of Britain's ablest soldier-administrators\" had died of arthritis and complications from a broken leg. Mason-MacFarlane's papers and correspondence are archived in the Imperial War Museum's Department of Documents.\n\nThe 2016 novel \"Midnight In Berlin\" by James McManus features as its hero Colonel Noel Macrae, \"a thinly disguised and heavily romanticized version\" of \n\n\n"}
{"id": "2132311", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2132311", "title": "O Ateneu", "text": "O Ateneu\n\nO Ateneu is a novel written by the Brazilian author Raul Pompéia in 1888, which is considered one of the most prominent examples of Brazilian Realism and Naturalism. The book narrates, in the first person, the story of Sérgio, an eleven-year-old boy who is sent to a well-respected all-male boarding school—known as \"the Ateneu\", hence the book's title—by his father. The Ateneu has very strict rules imposed by its headmaster—Aristarco—which cause a general sense of riot amongst the students; homosexuality is common amongst most students, which is partially explained due to the presence of just one woman in the school—the nurse and wife of Aristarco, Dona Ema—and the lack of contact with the external world.\n\nThe general concept of the novel is that of describing the leaving of one's childhood dreams behind, and the consequences which come from growing up and having to face life. The main character, Sérgio, is commonly accepted as being an alter ego of Pompéia at a younger age.\n\nSérgio is left at the age of eleven on the doorsteps of the Ateneu by his father and enters the school for the first time. It immediately becomes clear the sexual references by the headmaster's statement to Sérgio's father in the beginning of the book: \"You should see a coiffeur,and cut this blondy hair of yours. You know, the pretty boys in this school, don't go along very well\". After, he is eventually approached by two older students—Sanches and Bento Alves—who try to engage into a homosexual relationship with him, but he does not accept the proposal. Sérgio then approaches a rebellious boy named Franco in order to avoid their company. Since Franco is constantly disciplined by the headmaster, Sérgio cuts his friendship with the boy, out of fear of facing the same fate. He then meets a boy named Egbert and becomes very close to him; their relationship does not develop beyond friendship mostly due to the sexual and emotional feelings Sérgio nourishes for the school's nurse—Dona Ema. Towards the end of the book, a student sets fire to the Ateneu, burning the whole structure down. The fire is a metaphor which represents the end of a chapter in Sérgio's life, as he progresses towards maturity.\n\n"}
{"id": "2132312", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2132312", "title": "Stay mouse", "text": "Stay mouse\n\nThe nautical term \"stay mouse\" refers to an antiquated part of a sailing vessel<nowiki>'s</nowiki> standing rigging. On all sailing ships built before about the 19th century, the stays were of natural cords. These lines were looped around the top of each section of the wooden masts using a spliced loop or seized loop in their ends. During the 16th century some riggers began to attach stays by splicing or seizing only a small loop into the end of the stay then passing the rope's tail around the mast and back through the small loop, like a slip-knot. To prevent this from slipping tightly around the mast when in use, a strong bulge was built into the standing part of the rope that could not fit through the small loop. \"This bulge\" was called a mouse or stay mouse.\n\nAs first galvanised and then stainless steel standing rigging replaced natural fibres, and steel and aluminium replaced wood for masts, the need for these niceties died out. Knowledge of, and interest in, these technologies is kept alive by classic boat and historic ship enthusiasts, as well as by model makers the world over.\n\n"}
{"id": "2132322", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2132322", "title": "Stokes operators", "text": "Stokes operators\n\nThe Stokes operators are the quantum mechanical operators corresponding to the classical Stokes parameters. These matrix operators are identical to the Pauli matrices .\nStokes operators, angular momentum and radiation phase.\n"}
{"id": "2132334", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2132334", "title": "Dangerous Sports Club", "text": "Dangerous Sports Club\n\nThe Dangerous Sports Club, a group of adventurers and extreme sports pioneers based in Oxford and London, were active from the late 1970s for about ten years, during which they developed modern bungee jumping and experimented with a variety of other innovative sporting activities.\n\nThe Dangerous Sports Club was co-founded by David Kirke, Chris Baker, Ed Hulton and Alan Weston in the 1970s. They first came to wide public attention by inventing modern day bungee jumping, by making the first modern jumps on 1 April 1979, from the Clifton Suspension Bridge, Bristol, England. They followed the Clifton Bridge effort with a jump from the Golden Gate Bridge in San Francisco (including the first female bungee jump by Jane Wilmot), and with a televised leap from the Royal Gorge Suspension Bridge in Colorado, sponsored by and televised on the popular American television program \"That's Incredible!\" Initially, bungee jumping was a niche novelty; it was popularised by A J Hackett, and has become a mainstream activity.\n\nThe club's activity and membership peaked in the 1980s, with several dozen active members and holding a wide range of events. The Club was heavily covered in the press, and made a film released in 1982 (\"The History of the Dangerous Sports Club\") as a supporting feature. Their activities were recorded by photographer Dafydd Jones, including an image of a young Nigella Lawson playing croquet from a sedan chair during a club tea party. The group split into various factions over the years. Monty Python member Graham Chapman was perhaps their most famous member, and he worked on a feature movie about the club prior to his death of tonsil and spinal cancer in 1989. When making personal appearances in the 1980s, Chapman would show films of Club activities.\n\nThe Club, although later achieving a degree of social diversity, was rooted in the English upper class and centred geographically in Oxford and, later, the West End of London. The style of dress adopted by members during their activities often included top hats and tailcoats, gaining a champagne-swilling image.\n\nIn addition to bungee jumping, the club specialised in high risk and surreal activities. The Club pioneered surrealist skiing, beginning in 1983 and holding three events at St. Moritz, Switzerland, in which competitors were required to devise a sculpture mounted on skis and ride it down a mountain. Entries included a grand piano, a Louis XIV dining set, and an 8-man boat. The event reached its limits when the Club arrived in St. Moritz with a London double-decker bus, wanting to send it down the ski slopes, and the Swiss resort managers refused. In 1986, David Kirke was sponsored by Foster's Lager to cross the English Channel in a kangaroo-shaped balloon, suspended beneath helium balloons, leading to his prosecution for flying without a pilot's licence.\n\nOther Club activities included expedition hang gliding from active volcanoes; the launching of giant (60 ft) plastic spheres with pilots suspended in the centre (zorbing); microlight flying; and BASE jumping (in the early days of this sport).\n\n\"The Oxford Stunt Factory\", which shared many members with the Dangerous Sports Club, gained notoriety in 2002, when an Oxford student was killed being launched from a trebuchet by former Dangerous Sports Club members David Aitkenhead and Richard Wicks. The trebuchet had been set up to launch a subject around 30 metres into a safety net. However Kostydin (Dino) Yankov, 19, fell short of the safety net and suffered severe spinal and leg injuries and died five hours later in Frenchay Hospital, Bristol. Aitkenhead and Wicks were charged with manslaughter, but were acquitted on grounds of insufficient evidence.\n"}
{"id": "2132342", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2132342", "title": "IPod advertising", "text": "IPod advertising\n\nApple has used a variety of advertising campaigns to promote its iPod portable digital media player. The campaigns include television commercials, print ads, posters in public places, and wrap advertising campaigns. These advertising techniques are unified by a distinctive, consistent style that differs from Apple's other ads.\n\nThe very first advert for the first iPod (only compatible with Macs) featured a man in his room grooving to his digital music collection on his Apple iBook. He drags his music to his iPod, closes his iBook, and plugs in the ear phones. He hits play and the music increases its volume. He then dances and hops around the room, then puts on his jacket, sliding the iPod into the pocket. He dances to the door and leaves the room. The song used was \"Take California\" by the Propellerheads, which became the hallmark of all subsequent advertisements.\n\nOne of the problems, noted Apple ad agency creative director Ken Segall, was the use of what he termed a 'real person.' Steve Jobs, he stated, avoided using people in his ads because it was difficult to find an actor who appealed to everyone. Another problem was that, \"It was somewhat uncomfortable to watch, and on the web some started to refer to it as the iCloud commercial...it was a young guy trying to act cool, and doing so in a fairly pitiful way\".\n\nSusan Alinsangan, a Chiat/Day art director, came up with the design of the iPod silhouette commercials in 2003, along with the help of Chiat/Day's director Lee Clow, and James Vincent, a former DJ and musician. She worked on the print campaign with artist Casey Leveque of Santa Monica's Rocket Studio\n\nThe silhouette advertising campaign featured dark silhouetted characters against brightly colored backgrounds. They were usually dancing and, in television commercials, backed by up-beat, energetic music. The silhouetted dancers held iPods while listening to them with Apple's supplied earphones. The iPods and earphones appeared in white to stand out against the colored background and black silhouettes. Apple changed the style of these commercials often depending on the song's theme or genre. \"It had a hook that was really was captivating and didn't try to impress us with the coolness of any particular person. Instead, it did what Apple does best: it created an iconic image, which immediately came to communicate Apple and iPod.\"\n\nAt first, however, Steve Jobs did not like the Silhouette campaign when it was presented to him. He was not certain that the silhouettes would work since they didn't show the product in detail and they didn't explain what the iPods did. The ad designers fought to convince Steve and copywriter James Vincent suggested adding the tagline \"1,000 songs in your pocket\" to address the issue. Steve Jobs decided to go with it. He would later claim it was his idea to push for the more iconic ads.\n\nThis change of strategy was a very successful one for the company. Previous ads for Apple's computers usually featured a high-quality photograph of the product on a white background with a short tag-line. In those ads the focus was entirely on the product and its craftsmanship. With the creation of the Silhouette campaign, however, the focus shifted from convincing consumers to purchase the device to asking them to \"buy the emotion.\" Everything about the ads was energetic — the bright shades of tropical-like colors of lime green, yellow, fuchsia, bright blue, and pink, to the energetic and danceable rock, pop, and hip hop music, and the simple tag-lines. The whiteness of the iPod and the earphones against the black of the silhouette and the bright backgrounds further helped launch the iPod into icon status. The white earbuds also became an icon signifying the iPod itself. The ubiquitous nature of the advertising campaign ensured everyone was exposed to ads.\n\nThe original television commercials and posters featured solid black silhouettes against a solid bright color, which usually changed every time the camera angle changed. Some of the television adverts also depict highlights on the silhouettes using darkened shades of the background color, and shadows on the floor. Since then, various commercials in the campaign have changed the format further:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2132353", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2132353", "title": "Alvy Ray Smith", "text": "Alvy Ray Smith\n\nAlvy Ray Smith III (born September 8, 1943) is an American computer scientist who co-founded Lucasfilm's Computer Division and Pixar, participating in the 1980s and 1990s expansion of computer animation into feature film.\n\nIn 1965, Alvy Smith received his bachelor's degree in electrical engineering from New Mexico State University (NMSU). He created his first computer graphic in 1965 at NMSU. In 1970, he received a Ph.D. in computer science from Stanford University, with a dissertation on cellular automata theory jointly supervised by Michael A. Arbib, Edward J. McCluskey, and Bernard Widrow.\n\nHis first art show was at the Stanford Coffeehouse. From 1969 to 1973 he was an associate professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science at New York University, under chairman Herbert Freeman, one of the earliest computer graphics researchers. He taught briefly at the University of California, Berkeley in 1974.\n\nWhile at Xerox PARC in 1974, Smith worked with Richard Shoup on SuperPaint, one of the first computer raster graphics editor, or 'paint', programs. Smith's major contribution to this software was the creation of the HSV color space, also known as HSB. He created his first computer animations on the SuperPaint system.\n\nIn 1975, Smith joined the new Computer Graphics Laboratory at New York Institute of Technology (NYIT), where he was given the job title \"Information Quanta\". There, working alongside a traditional cel animation studio, he met Ed Catmull and several core personnel of Pixar. Smith worked on a series of newer paint programs, including \"Paint3\", the first true-color raster graphics editor. As part of this work, he co-invented the concept of the alpha channel. He was also the programmer and collaborator on Ed Emshwiller's animation Sunstone, included in the collection of the Museum of Modern Art in New York. Smith worked at NYIT until 1979, and then briefly at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory with Jim Blinn on the Carl Sagan \"\" television series.\n\nWith Ed Catmull, Smith was a founding member of the Lucasfilm Computer Division, which developed computer graphics software, including early renderer technology. As director of the Computer Graphics Project, Smith created and directed the \"Genesis Demo\" in \"The Wrath of Khan\", and conceived and directed the short animated film \"The Adventures of Andre and Wally B.\", animated by John Lasseter. At some point in the 1980s, a designer suggested naming a new digital compositing computer the \"Picture Maker\". Smith thought that the laser-based device have a catchier name, and came up with \"Pixer\", which after a meeting was changed to \"Pixar\".\n\nSmith and Catmull co-founded Pixar in 1986 with financing from Steve Jobs. After the spinout from Lucasfilm of Pixar, he served on the board of directors and was executive vice president. According to the Steve Jobs biography \"iCon\" by Jeffrey S. Young and William L. Simon, Alvy Ray quit Pixar after a heated argument with Jobs over the use of a whiteboard. It was an unwritten rule that none other than Jobs was allowed to use it, a rule Smith decided to break in front of everyone after Jobs went \"total street bully\" on him and they ended up screaming into each other's face \"in full bull rage\". Despite being the co-founder of Pixar, Young and Simon claim that the company has largely overlooked his part in company history since his departure. For example, there is no mention of Smith on the Pixar website.\n\nHe was for four years (1988–1992) a member of the board of regents of the National Library of Medicine in Bethesda, Maryland, where he was instrumental in inaugurating the Visible Human Project.\n\nIn 1991, Smith left Pixar to cofound Altamira Software, with Eric Lyons and Nicholas Clay. Altamira was acquired by Microsoft in 1994. Smith became the first Graphics Fellow at Microsoft in 1994.\n\nHe retired from Microsoft in 1999 and is currently giving many talks, making digital photographs, doing scholarly genealogy, and researching technical history. He lives in Seattle, Washington. Since 2010, Smith is married to Alison Gopnik, author and Professor of Psychology at the University of California, Berkeley.\n\nWith his collaborators, Smith has twice been recognized by the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences for his scientific and engineering contributions, to digital image compositing (1996 award) and digital paint systems (1998 award).\n\nIn 1990, Smith and Richard Shoup received the ACM SIGGRAPH Computer Graphics Achievement Award for their development of paint programs. Smith presented the Forsythe Lecture in 1997 at Stanford University, where he received his PhD in 1970. His undergraduate alma mater New Mexico State University awarded him an honorary doctorate in December 1999. He was inducted into the CRN Industry Hall of Fame at the Computer History Museum in Mountain View, CA in 2004. In 2006, Smith was elected a member of the National Academy of Engineering. In 2010, Smith was elected a Fellow of the American Society of Genealogists and presented the Washington Award in Chicago for advancing \"the welfare of humankind\". In 2011, Smith was awarded the Special Award at Mundos Digitales in La Coruna, Spain, for lifetime achievement in computer graphics. In 2012, Smith was awarded the Digital Media Symposium Lifetime Achievement Award in Boulder, Colorado, and was awarded a plaque in the Circle of Honor at New Mexico State University. In 2013, Smith was elected a fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science. Smith has been the recipient of several grants from the National Science Foundation and the National Endowment for the Arts during his career.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2132356", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2132356", "title": "Fixed-point index", "text": "Fixed-point index\n\nIn mathematics, the fixed-point index is a concept in topological fixed-point theory, and in particular Nielsen theory. The fixed-point index can be thought of as a multiplicity measurement for fixed points.\n\nThe index can be easily defined in the setting of complex analysis: Let \"f\"(\"z\") be a holomorphic mapping on the complex plane, and let \"z\" be a fixed point of \"f\". Then the function \"f\"(\"z\") − \"z\" is holomorphic, and has an isolated zero at \"z\". We define the fixed point index of \"f\" at \"z\", denoted \"i\"(\"f\", \"z\"), to be the multiplicity of the zero of the function \"f\"(\"z\") − \"z\" at the point \"z\".\n\nIn real Euclidean space, the fixed-point index is defined as follows: If \"x\" is an isolated fixed point of \"f\", then let \"g\" be the function defined by\n\nThen \"g\" has an isolated singularity at \"x\", and maps the boundary of some deleted neighborhood of \"x\" to the unit sphere. We define \"i\"(\"f\", \"x\") to be the Brouwer degree of the mapping induced by \"g\" on some suitably chosen small sphere around \"x\".\n\nThe importance of the fixed-point index is largely due to its role in the Lefschetz–Hopf theorem, which states:\n\nwhere Fix(\"f\") is the set of fixed points of \"f\", and \"Λ\" is the Lefschetz number of \"f\".\n\nSince the quantity on the left-hand side of the above is clearly zero when \"f\" has no fixed points, the Lefschetz–Hopf theorem trivially implies the Lefschetz fixed point theorem.\n\n"}
{"id": "2132386", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2132386", "title": "George Cakobau Jr.", "text": "George Cakobau Jr.\n\nRatu George Cakobau Jr., also known as Ratu Jioji Cakobau (died June 25, 2018) was a Fijian chief and political leader. He was the eldest son of the late Governor-General, Ratu Sir George Cakobau, who was also the \"Vunivalu of Bau\" (widely considered to be Fiji's most senior chiefly position), and was a great-great grandson of Seru Epenisa Cakobau, the warlord who established the first unified Fijian Kingdom in 1871 and ceded it to the United Kingdom in 1874.\n\nA meeting of elders from the Tui Kaba clan, to which he belonged, tentatively proposed him as the next \"Vunivalu\" in June 2005. The position has been vacant since the death of his father in 1989, owing to disagreements over the succession.\n\nIn 2001, Cakobau was appointed to the Senate by the Great Council of Chiefs, having been nominated by the Tailevu Provincial Council. He served until 2006.\n"}
{"id": "2132388", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2132388", "title": "Khaki Mafia", "text": "Khaki Mafia\n\nThe Khaki Mafia is a novel about the Vietnam War by Robin Moore and June Collins, published by Crown in 1971. Collins was an entertainer who had performed for US troops in Vietnam and later testified before a U.S. Senate committee about corruption among senior military personnel. The novel's lead character, an entertainer named Jody T. Neale, is based on Collins, who used the professional name Junie Moon, and the plot details diversion of taxpayer money and other criminal activities by U.S. military officials in the war zone.\n\nIn the mid-1960s, Moore had written \"The Green Berets\", a novel celebrating the U.S. role in the Vietnam War. He later wrote \"The Happy Hooker\" with Xaviera Hollander, considered a \"portrait of a sexual revolution.\" \"The Khaki Mafia\" takes a far more negative view of U.S. involvement in Vietnam than did the previous war novel, reflecting the spread of anti-war attitudes among Americans late in the conflict. Collins wrote other books about the Vietnam War: \"Goodbye Junie Moon\" and its sequel, \"Junie Moon Rising\".\n"}
{"id": "2132415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2132415", "title": "CATA Línea Aérea", "text": "CATA Línea Aérea\n\nCATA Línea Aérea was an airline based in Buenos Aires, Argentina. It operated domestic scheduled and chartered flights, out of its base at Moron Airport, as well as from Ministro Pistarini International Airport, Aeroparque Jorge Newbery, Almirante Marco Andrés Zar Airport, and Ingeniero Aeronáutico Ambrosio L.V. Taravella International Airport.\n\nThe airline was established and started operations in 1986. It was wholly owned by Grupo Pesquera ICS Argentina. All flights were suspended since 2006, and bankruptcy was formally declared on March 28, 2008.\n\nThe CATA fleet included the following aircraft:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2132420", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2132420", "title": "Enoch Cree Nation 135", "text": "Enoch Cree Nation 135\n\nEnoch Cree Nation 135, ( ) previously known as Stony Plain No. 135, is an Indian reserve of the Enoch Cree Nation in Alberta. It is adjacent to the City of Edmonton to the east and Parkland County to the north, west, and south. The postal address of the reserve is Enoch, Alberta.\n\nIn 2016 Enoch Cree Nation 135 had a population of 1,690 living in 576 dwellings, a 71.2% increase from 2011. The Indian reserve has a land area of and a population density of .\n\nAccording to the Canada 2016 Census:\n\n"}
{"id": "2132424", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2132424", "title": "Millisle", "text": "Millisle\n\nMillisle or Mill Isle (from Scots \"mill\" + \"isle\", meaning \"the meadow of the mill\") is a village on the Ards Peninsula in County Down, Northern Ireland. It is about south of Donaghadee. It is situated in the townlands of Ballymacruise and Ballycopeland, the civil parish of Donaghadee and the historic barony of Ards Lower. It has been described as an \"unpretentious bucket-and-spade resort of fish-and-chip shops and acres of caravan sites\". It had a population of 2,318 people in the 2011 Census.\n\nIn the 2011 Census Millisle had a population of 2,318 people (991 households).\n\nMillisle is classified as a village by the NI Statistics and Research Agency (NISRA) (i.e. with population between 1,000 and 2,250). On Census day (29 April 2001) there were 1,800 people living in Millisle. Of these:\n\nFor more details see NI Neighbourhood Information Service\n\nAbbey Villa F.C. play association football in the Northern Amateur Football League.\n\n\nTravelling along the Moss Road (B172) from Millisle to Newtownards you pass a large strip of concrete the remnants of an airfield (known as RAF Millisle, or Killaughey or Killaghy Airfield). It was a planned airfield some 22 kilometers from Belfast, located in the North Down area of Northern Ireland. It was selected and surveyed by two RAF Officers Squadron Leader WR Fawdry and Pilot Officer Spencer.\n\nOn 17 April 1942, Stewart & Partners Ltd were awarded the project at the cost of £250,000. Construction of the airfield had already begun when the entire project was cancelled on 29 December 1943 when on 20% of the work was completed (PRONI) no reason can be found as to why the project was abandoned. The airfield was designated to become a USAAF B-29 Bomber Base. Building materials were delivered by tractor and trailer and trucks to the site. Many of the construction workers came from the Republic of Ireland. This was mainly due to the shortage of local manpower. When the Air Ministry ordered Sunday working to increase productivity, the local Presbyterians held a series of prayer meetings in a bit to keep Sunday a day of rest. The runway under construction began to show undulations in the north side but likely that was not caused by divine intervention. Construction of the runway had begun directly on top of boggy grassland with no proper foundations. Local houses and 4 local farms were vested by the Air Ministry for the use of the war effort. Explosives were used to clear the site for the construction of the new airfield. One of the houses vested was used as an office for the construction company.\n\nIn late 1943 the site was still being cleared as a house was blown only one day before construction was halted. After the war the remaining buildings on the north side of the airfield (Killaughey Road) were used by local farmers and later by small businesses. Today some of the buildings are derelict and they can still be seen but a number are used by as a small industrial development, engaged in various businesses under the collective name of Glenarley. The Women's Auxiliary Air Force (WAAF) accommodation and post office were small buildings off to the west of the airfield (Gransha Road). These were demolished after the war. Although the airfield was never completed the main runway that was built was used several times after the war. There is a mention of an Auster (airplane) making an emergency landing, and several records naming de Havilland Tiger Moths landings. The last use of the airfield was around 1970. Today the runway is on private property thus not accessible although it is possible to see it up close. A local road crosses the runway about midway. On aerial photography (ronaldv) the beginnings of the other two runways can still be recognised on the northern half of the runway. The northern half is the only part that is still at its original width (45/50yds) and its finished length is 1800 M. To the west of the remaining barracks, a platform and a small sections of taxiways can be found. Millisle holds the dubious distinction of being the only uncompleted airfield of World War II in the UK.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2132433", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2132433", "title": "Fermat's factorization method", "text": "Fermat's factorization method\n\nFermat's factorization method, named after Pierre de Fermat, is based on the representation of an odd integer as the difference of two squares:\nThat difference is algebraically factorable as formula_2; if neither factor equals one, it is a proper factorization of \"N\".\n\nEach odd number has such a representation. Indeed, if formula_3 is a factorization of \"N\", then\n\nSince \"N\" is odd, then \"c\" and \"d\" are also odd, so those halves are integers. (A multiple of four is also a difference of squares: let \"c\" and \"d\" be even.)\n\nIn its simplest form, Fermat's method might be even slower than trial division (worst case). Nonetheless, the combination of trial division and Fermat's is more effective than either.\n\nOne tries various values of \"a\", hoping that formula_5, a square.\n\nFor example, to factor formula_6, the first try for \"a\" is the square root of rounded up to the next integer, which is . Then, formula_7. Since 125 is not a square, a second try is made by increasing the value of \"a\" by 1. The second attempt also fails, because 282 is again not a square.\n\nThe third try produces the perfect square of 441. So, formula_8, formula_9, and the factors of are formula_10 and formula_11.\n\nSuppose N has more than two prime factors. That procedure first finds the factorization with the least values of \"a\" and \"b\". That is, formula_12 is the smallest factor ≥ the square-root of \"N\", and so formula_13 is the largest factor ≤ root-\"N\". If the procedure finds formula_14, that shows that \"N\" is prime.\n\nFor formula_15, let \"c\" be the largest subroot factor. formula_16, so the number of steps is approximately formula_17.\n\nIf \"N\" is prime (so that formula_18), one needs formula_19 steps. This is a bad way to prove primality. But if \"N\" has a factor close to its square root, the method works quickly. More precisely, if \"c\" differs less than formula_20 from formula_21, the method requires only one step; this is independent of the size of \"N\".\n\nConsider trying to factor the prime number , but also compute \"b\" and throughout. Going up from formula_22, we can tabulate:\nIn practice, one wouldn't bother with that last row, until \"b\" is an integer. But observe that if \"N\" had a subroot factor above formula_23, Fermat's method would have found it already.\n\nTrial division would normally try up to 48,432; but after only four Fermat steps, we need only divide up to 47830, to find a factor or prove primality.\n\nThis all suggests a combined factoring method. Choose some bound formula_24; use Fermat's method for factors between formula_22 and formula_26. This gives a bound for trial division which is formula_27. In the above example, with formula_28 the bound for trial division is 47830. A reasonable choice could be formula_29 giving a bound of 28937.\n\nIn this regard, Fermat's method gives diminishing returns. One would surely stop before this point:\n\nIt is not necessary to compute all the square-roots of formula_30, nor even examine all the values for . Consider the table for formula_31:\nOne can quickly tell that none of these values of formula_32 are squares. Squares are always congruent to 0, 1, 4, 5, 9, 16 modulo 20. The values repeat with each increase of by 10. In this example, N is 17 mod 20, so subtracting 17 mod 20 (or adding 3), formula_30 produces 3, 4, 7, 8, 12, and 19 modulo 20 for these values. It is apparent that only the 4 from this list can be a square. Thus, formula_34 must be 1 mod 20, which means that is 1, 9, 11 or 19 mod 20; it will produce a formula_32 which ends in 4 mod 20 and, if square, will end in 2 or 8 mod 10.\n\nThis can be performed with any modulus. Using the same formula_31,\n\nOne generally chooses a power of a different prime for each modulus.\n\nGiven a sequence of \"a\"-values (start, end, and step) and a modulus, one can proceed thus:\n\nBut the recursion is stopped when few \"a\"-values remain; that is, when (aend-astart)/astep is small. Also, because \"a\"'s step-size is constant, one can compute successive b2's with additions.\n\nA further modular improvement can be made by applying the division algorithm as an affine transformation, that is formula_37, formula_38, formula_39, over any integer ring formula_40 where formula_41. After a small amount of algebra, one can conclude that formula_42 and formula_43 where s and t are identical to determining the carries one does in multiplying the divisors over base formula_44.\n\nFermat's method works best when there is a factor near the square-root of \"N\".\n\nIf the approximate ratio of two factors (formula_45) is known, then the rational number formula_46 can be picked near that value. For example, if formula_47, then formula_48 is a good estimate for the smaller of a divisor pair. formula_49, and the factors are roughly equal: Fermat's, applied to \"Nuv\", will find them quickly. Then formula_50 and formula_51. (Unless \"c\" divides \"u\" or \"d\" divides \"v\".)\nA further generalization of this approach assumes that formula_52, meaning that formula_53.\n\nGenerally, if the ratio is not known, various formula_54 values can be tried, and try to factor each resulting \"Nuv\". R. Lehman devised a systematic way to do this, so that Fermat's plus trial division can factor N in formula_55 time.\n\nThe fundamental ideas of Fermat's factorization method are the basis of the quadratic sieve and general number field sieve, the best-known algorithms for factoring large semiprimes, which are the \"worst-case\". The primary improvement that quadratic sieve makes over Fermat's factorization method is that instead of simply finding a square in the sequence of formula_56, it finds a subset of elements of this sequence whose \"product\" is a square, and it does this in a highly efficient manner. The end result is the same: a difference of square mod \"n\" that, if nontrivial, can be used to factor \"n\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2132434", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2132434", "title": "The Game (Dryden book)", "text": "The Game (Dryden book)\n\nThe Game is a book written by former ice hockey goaltender Ken Dryden. Published in 1983, the book is a non-fiction account of the 1978-79 Montreal Canadiens, detailing the life of a professional hockey player. The book describes the pressures of being a goaltender in the NHL, and gives readers a behind-the-scenes look at a team that would eventually win the 1979 Stanley Cup. Dryden writes about the life of an athlete, coping with the demands of a demanding sport and reconciling these pressures with life outside the arena.\n\nKen Dryden's book \"The Game\" received praise from critics upon its publication. Mordecai Richler wrote \"Dryden has written a very special book, possibly the best hockey book I have ever read. His affectionate yet realistic portrait of the players is unrivalled in hockey writing.\" Wrote noted sports columnist Scott Young: \"A hockey book so rare that there is actually nothing to compare it to.\" \"The Game\" was nominated for a Governor General's Literary Award for Non-fiction in 1983 Since its publication its stature has continued. Sports Illustrated named it in 2002 as the ninth best sports book of all time: \"Hall of Fame goalie Dryden was always different. A Cornell grad, he led Montreal to six Stanley Cups, then at 26 sat out a year to prepare for the bar exam. His book is different too: a well-crafted account of his career combined with a meditation on hockey's special place in Canadian culture.\" Ian McGillis in the Montreal Gazette wrote \"It's a book that made a huge splash on first publication in 1983 and has weathered the subsequent decades remarkably well, staying in print and picking up new readers far past the point where a book tied to a specific hockey season – 1978-79 – might be expected to. Its stature owes something to how clearly it stands out among sports books, but to call it the best hockey book ever, as it certainly is, still sounds faintly condescending. It’s a Canadian classic, period.\"\n"}
{"id": "2132435", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2132435", "title": "František Škroup", "text": "František Škroup\n\nFrantišek Jan Škroup (; 3 June 1801 in Osice near Hradec Králové – 7 February 1862 in Rotterdam) was a Czech composer and conductor. His brother Jan Nepomuk Škroup was also a successful composer and his father, Dominik Škroup, and other brother Ignác Škroup were lesser known composers.\n\nAt the age of eleven he moved to Prague where he supported himself as a choir boy and flautist. He continued his schooling at one of the most important Czech national revival movement centres, Hradec Králové, where he was a choirboy at the cathedral. While there he studied with the local choirmaster and composer Franz Volkert (1767–1831). He later moved back to Prague to study at the university. He became a fairly successful opera and singspiel composer producing more than a dozen stage works. Among Škroup's part-time jobs was organist at the \"Temple of the Israelite Society for Regulated Worship,\" known since the late nineteen-forties as the \"Spanish synagogue.\" His last position was as the musical director of the German opera in Dutch Rotterdam. He died there and, as a person without means, was buried in a mass grave. He also produced an oratorio, a mass, and a few other sacred works. He is best remembered today as the author of the melody for the Czech national anthem \"\"Kde domov můj?\"\".\n\nFrom 1827 Škroup was a conductor at the Estates Theatre in Prague. There he led the Czech premières of many famous works by composers such as Richard Wagner. Škroup's oeuvre consists mainly of Czech and German opera which gained significant local popularity.\n\nOpera, Singspiel and Incidental Music\n\nOrchestral\n\nChamber music\n\nPiano\n\nVocal\n\n"}
{"id": "2132440", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2132440", "title": "Manifesto of Prague", "text": "Manifesto of Prague\n\nThe Manifesto of Prague () is a historic document that establishes a set of seven widely shared principles of the Esperanto movement. It was drafted at the 1996 World Esperanto Congress in Prague by officials from the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) and those attending the congress. The document emphasizes democratic communication, language rights, preservation of language diversity, and effective language education.\n\nThe following is the full English text of the 15-page pamphlet, which includes the same text in French, Spanish, Russian, Chinese and Arabic. (The pamphlet, published by Universal Esperanto Association, is undated).\n\nWe, members of the worldwide movement for the promotion of Esperanto, address this manifesto to all governments, international organizations and people of good will; declare our unshakable commitment to the objectives set out here; and invite each and every organization and individual to join us in our effort.\n\nLaunched in 1887 as a project for an auxiliary language for international communication and quickly developed into a rich living language in its own right, Esperanto has worked for more than a century to connect people across language and culture barriers. Meanwhile, the objectives of its speakers have not lost importance or relevance. Neither the worldwide use of a few national languages, nor advances in communications technology, nor the development of new methods of language instruction will likely realize the following principles, which we consider essential for just and effective language order.\n\nA communication system which privileges some people but requires of others that they invest years of effort in order to attain a lesser degree of competency is fundamentally undemocratic. Although, like any language, Esperanto is not perfect, it greatly exceeds all rivals in the sphere of equitable global communication.\n\n\"We assert that language inequality entails inequality of communication at all levels, including the international level. We are a movement for democratic communication.\"\n\nAny ethnic language is linked to a certain culture and nation or group of nations. For example, the student who studies English learns about the culture, geography and politics of the English-speaking world, primary the United States and United Kingdom. The student who studies Esperanto learns about a world without limits, in which every country is like a home.\n\n\"We assert that the education of any ethnic language is linked to a specific worldview. We are a movement for transnational education.\"\n\nOnly a small percentage of those who study a foreign language begin to master it. Full understanding of Esperanto is achievable within a month of study. Various studies have ascribed propaedeutic effects to the study of other languages. One also recommends Esperanto as a core element in courses for the linguistic sensitization of students.\n\n\"We assert that the difficulty of the ethnic languages always will present obstacles to many students, who nevertheless would profit from the knowledge of a second language. We are a movement for effective language instruction.\"\n\nThe Esperanto community is one of the few worldwide linguistic communities whose members are, without exception, bi- or multilingual. Each member of the community accepted the task of learning at least one foreign language to a communicative degree. In multiple cases this leads to the knowledge and love of several languages and generally to broader personal horizons.\n\n\"We assert that the speakers of all languages, large and small, should have a real opportunity to learn a second language to a high communicative level. We are a movement for the provision of that opportunity.\"\n\nThe unequal distribution of power between languages is a recipe for permanent language insecurity, or straightforward linguistic suppression, in a large part of the world's population. In the Esperanto community, the speakers of a language, large or small, official or nonofficial, meet on neutral terms, thanks to a reciprocated will to compromise. This equilibrium between linguistic rights and responsibilities provides a precedent for developing and evaluating other solutions to language inequalities and conflict.\n\n\"We assert that the vast variations in power among languages undermines the guarantees, expressed in so many international documents, of equal treatment without discrimination of languages. We are a movement for linguistic rights\"\".\"\n\nThe national governments tend to consider the grand diversification of world languages as barriers to communication and development. For the Esperanto community, however, linguistic diversity is a constant and indispensable source of enrichment. Therefore, every language, like every living thing, is inherently valuable and worthy of protection and support.\n\n\"We assert that policies of communication and development, if not based on respect and support for all languages, condemn to extinction the majority of the word's languages. We are a movement for linguistic diversity.\"\n\nEvery language liberates and imprisons its speakers, giving to them the power to communicate among themselves while barring them from communication with others. Planned as a universal communications tool, Esperanto is one of the largest functioning projects of human emancipation or projects to enable every human to participate as an individual in the human community, with secure roots in their local culture and linguistic identity, while not being limited by it.\n\n\"We assert that the exclusive use of national languages inevitably raises barriers to the freedoms of expression, communication, and association. We are a movement for human emancipation.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2132445", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2132445", "title": "Buchholz High School", "text": "Buchholz High School\n\nF. W. Buchholz High School (commonly referred to as Buchholz or BHS) is a high school in Gainesville, Florida. Buchholz (pronounced \"BEUU-holz\") is one of seven high schools in Alachua County. Opened in January 1971, it is the largest public high school in Gainesville, with 2,253 students in 2016. \n\nThe School Board of Alachua County began construction in 1968 for two new high schools in the rapidly expanding suburbs of Gainesville, Florida, to supplement the city's two existing public high schools. The new school in the northwest suburbs was named F.W. Buchholz, in honor of a distinguished Alachua County educator who had died a few years earlier, while the school in the eastern suburbs was named Eastside High School. The school board hoped to open both schools in September 1970 and to open them without the upper classes (grades 11 and 12) in order to allow the new schools to expand gradually, while also allowing students in the upper grades at Gainesville High School (GHS) to remain there for their final years. The slow roll-out at Buchholz and Eastside also spread the need to hire new teachers over several years, and allowed the school board to alter the grade structure in the junior and senior highs.\n\nThe school board began designating faculty members while the new buildings were under construction. Gainesville's predominately black high school, Lincoln High, was scheduled to close at the end of the 1969–70 academic year. Its football coach, Jessie Heard, was named in 1969 to be the head coach at Buchholz for the 1970 season. Coach Heard selected the school's colors of black and gold, because he was impressed with the black and gold uniforms worn by the Vanderbilt University football team when they came to Gainesville to play the Florida Gators on October 25, 1969. The freshman class of 1970–1971 voted on what the school's mascot would be; this was between a Bobcat and a Golden Knight.\n\nGainesville and Alachua County elementary schools served grades K-6 in the 1960s, while junior high schools consisted of grades 7, 8 and 9. The school board planned to realign junior high class distribution once Buchholz and Eastside opened, elevating grade 9 to the high schools. Further, because it would open the two new schools without upperclassmen, Buchholz and Eastside would temporarily serve as combined junior-senior highs. Alachua County moved away from the junior high structure in the late 1970s, opening new middle schools to serve grades 6, 7 and 8.\n\nConstruction of the sprawling Buchholz campus cost $2.4 million. Progress lagged behind schedule in spring and summer 1970, forcing the school board to develop an improvised class schedule for the fall. When the new school year resumed after Labor Day 1970, students living within the prospective Buchholz school zone who were entering grade 10 remained at Westwood Junior High School, which shifted to a split, double-shift schedule. Construction of Eastside High was also behind schedule, forcing its prospective students to remain at Howard Bishop Jr. High, which also operated on a double-shift schedule. Buchholz's first football team, a Junior Varsity squad, played its first season out of Westwood in fall 1970, utilizing two trailers (one for the offense and one for the defense.)\n\nThe new school building opened midway through the 1970–71 academic year as F.W. Buchholz Junior-Senior High, with Principal James \"Jim\" Temple. The school opened for its first classes at 7 am on Wednesday January 6, 1971. Principal Temple had received special permission from the school board to use Monday and Tuesday for teacher orientation and planning, before welcoming students on Wednesday: those two days were \"made up\" by canceling teacher work days planned for February 5 and 12. Because of overcrowding at GHS and a limited fleet of school buses, the school board was hard-pressed to develop a city- and county-wide bus plan capable of carrying out a court-ordered cross-bussing integration plan. Of the initial 1,160 students attending Buchholz that first year, nearly 800 rode buses. There simply were not enough buses to allow every school to begin classes at a \"normal\" hour, so Buchholz (and Westwood) were shifted to an \"early\" day schedule, with classes held from 7am to 1pm for the remainder of the academic year.\n\nRather than holding classes on a rigid schedule of six fixed periods, Buchholz experimented with an innovative system of modular scheduling. The school day was divided into 21 mods, each 17 minutes long, and class length varied from one to three mods, depending on subject matter and day of the week. The traditional ringing bell to signal the end (and start) of a \"period\" was replaced with an electronic chime for each mod. The modular day included blocks of free time for students, designated Individual Directed Study time (IDS). In a January 1971 interview for the \"Gainesville Sun\" newspaper, Principal Temple explained that in a conventional school with a normal six and one-half hour day, students spend 275 minutes per week in each of six classes. In its first year operating on an abbreviated, \"early\" schedule, Buchholz students spent 260 minutes per-week, per-class; this increased to 275 minutes the following school year, when the county's acquisition of a dozen new school buses allowed Buchholz to begin classes at a \"normal\" time.\n\nIn addition to the 9th and 10th graders brought over from Westwood, the school also included grades 7 and 8 for its first two years, because there was no grade 11 or 12. Grades 11 and 12 were added in succession in the following years, and the junior high was eliminated after the 1971–72 school year.\n\nBuchholz High's first graduating class, the Charter Class of 1973, had about 265 students. The Charter Class had the unique experience of being the \"Senior Class\" at BHS for three years, and of having been \"de facto\" \"seniors\" for their last four years of public school (since starting 9th grade).\n\nFrederick \"Fritz\" William Buchholz (1885–1965) was a teacher, principal, scholar, and politician. Born in Tampa, Florida on July 26, 1885, he was the son of Ludwig Wilhelm Buchholz and Augustine M. Wallace (married January 31, 1883 in Hillsborough County, Florida). His father, a recent German immigrant, was an educator who helped to establish public schools in Hillsborough County, becoming County Superintendent of Public Instruction in 1887.\n\nBuchholz attended Florida State College in Tallahassee, where his father was a professor. Buchholz was a member of Florida State's 1902 track team, and played fullback on its 1902–1904 football team. He graduated with FSC's last class in spring 1905. Buchholz won the first Rhodes Scholarship in the State of Florida while a student at the Florida State College (later renamed the Florida State University) in 1905. Bucchholz graduated from Pembroke College, Oxford, England.\n\nHe came to Gainesville in 1914, as a teacher and coach of the football team at Gainesville High School. He was appointed principal of GHS in 1917 and served in the school system until his retirement in 1951.\n\nIn 1917 and 1918, while Buchholz lived in Gainesville, anti-German sentiment existed in the United States and in Florida schools. His father, then on the faculty of the University of Florida in Gainesville as a Professor of Education and School Management (specializing in Biblical instruction), was accused of disloyalty during the Great War (World War I). An \"F.W. Bughholz\" (with an A.B., Bachelor of Arts degree) is listed as a professor of Latin at the University of Florida for the summer session of 1917, likely a misspelling of \"Buchholz.\" This indicates his studies at Oxford did not result in a master's degree.\n\nBuchholz's experience in coaching the GHS football team led to his instrumental role in the founding of the Florida High School Athletic Association (FHSAA), during a meeting of 29 high school principals from across the state, held at the University of Florida in Gainesville on April 9, 1920. He served as its vice president from 1920–1923, again from 1925–1929, as president of the FHSAA from 1929–1933, and, finally, as executive secretary (Commissioner) from 1933–36. (In April 2001, Buchholz was post-humously elected to the FHSAA Hall of Fame.) He wrote the \"History of Alachua County\", published in 1929, and represented Alachua County in the Florida House of Representatives.\n\nWhen Buchholz first came to Gainesville, the city's high school (for whites) was known as the Gainesville Graded & High School and was located in the present Alachua County Public Schools District Office. Schools were segregated, and African American children attended the Union Academy. A separate building for Gainesville High School was not built until 1922, on West University Avenue, bounded by Southwest 2nd Avenue and 7th and 8th Streets. By this time, Buchholz was Superintendent of Alachua County Public Schools. Shortly after Buchholz retired, a new GHS was built at its present location at 1900 N.W. 13th Street, and the building on West University Avenue was renamed F. W. Buchholz Junior High School in 1955. Later, it became part of Santa Fe Junior College.\n\nBuchholz died on October 28, 1965 at age 80. He is buried in Gainesville's Evergreen Cemetery. He was survived by his wife, Emmaline, co-founder of the Florida Federation of Art, son William, and daughter Mary Buchholz Moran.\n\nBuchholz contains two magnet programs: the Academy of Finance and the Academy of Entrepreneurship. As a result, the school contains a credit union known as the \"Bobcat Branch,\" which is a division of the Florida Credit Union, and operated by students in the Academy of Finance. The \"Spirit Spot\" is a retail outlet whose products are envisioned and marketed by the Academy of Entrepreneurship.\n\nThe students hail from all over the city due to their county school board's zoning laws, and represent the vast ethnic and religious diversity that is ever-present in Gainesville.\n\nA vast array of classes and activities are available to the student body, from \"Student Cabinet\" (a student-run organization designed to involve students in the affairs of the school) to Advanced Placement courses. Buchholz is also known locally for its school spirit in all facets of student activity within the school.\n\nStudents enroll from grades 9 through 12.\n\nThe school's marching band, the Golden Regiment, has received awards and accolades. In November 2000, the Golden Regiment marched in the Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade in New York and was the featured band performing live on NBC's \"Today Show\". In 2008, the Golden Regiment progressed towards the Florida State Championships for the first time in history, claiming the fourth-place trophy in 5A category on November 22. In 2013, the band placed first in class 4A with their show \"Carmen 2.0\". The next year, the band won the same champion title with their show \"Four\", a depiction of the four seasons. In 2009, the Buchholz Wind Symphony performed at the Midwest Clinic. They also performed at Midwest in 2014, under the direction of Alex Kaminsky.\n\nThe Wind Symphony (the principal concert ensemble) performed at the College Band Directors National Association and National Band Association Southern Regional Conference in Atlanta, Georgia in February 2002. In December 2002, they were honored to perform at the Midwest Clinic, an International Band and Orchestra Conference in Chicago, Illinois. In 2006, the Wind Symphony was invited to the Grand National Adjudicators Invitational in Chattanooga, Tennessee. The Wind Symphony was awarded Superior Scores from all adjudicators as well as the First Place Honor Band Award. The French Horns and the entire Woodwind Section were awarded Outstanding Sections. Two students received Outstanding Soloist Awards. This was all accomplished under the direction of Paula Thornton and Vicki Nolan.\n\nThe band was then placed under the direction of Alex Kaminsky. In 2009, under the direction of Kaminsky, The Wind Symphony traveled to New York City to perform in Carnegie Hall. The band received the Gold Level award for its performance. In the 2013 season, the band won the Florida Marching Band Coalition State Finals Competition in class 4A, with their show \"Carmen 3.0\". Following this, the Buchholz Wind Symphony performed for the FMEA State Convention, CBDNA/NBA Southern Division Conference, and the ABA National Convention. The subsequent marching season, the Golden Regiment again won the FMBC State competition with their show \"4: A musical and visual depiction of the four seasons of the year.\" Most recently, the Wind Symphony was invited to play at the Midwest Clinic in December 2014, which they won.\n\nAs of 2015, the band is under the direction of Shawn Barat.\n\nIn 2019, under the direction of Shawn Barat, the Golden Regiment was the overall grand champion in the 2019 Crown Jewel Marching Band Festival. \n\nIn 2020, Shawn Barat took the Buchholz Wind Symphony to the Music for All National Band Festival to perform after being invited the following year. Unfortunately, they all had to come back early due to COVID-19. \n\nBuchholz High School is also home to an active theater program. Under the guidance of Ted Lewis as of 2018, this program teaches students the ins and outs of what it takes to put on a show. From creating a hand-crafted set to acting out characters in a musical, the Buchholz's theater club gives students real experience in the world of show business. This program is known to put on a wide variety of content, ranging from Shakespearean plays like The Taming of the Shrew to 2018's performance of The Evil Dead: The Musical. The Buchholz Players also perform at the district and state levels of competition.\n\nBuchholz has teams in the following sports: cross-country, track and field, soccer, lacrosse, basketball, football, Baseball/Softball, wrestling, girls' volleyball, men and women's swimming and diving, men's and women's golf, tennis, and weightlifting.\n\nBuchholz's boys' track and field teams won the 1993 (4-A), 1994 (4-A), 1995 (5-A), and 2004 (4-A) state championships \n\nBuchholz's boys' cross country team won the 1989 (3-A), 1990 (3-A), 1993 (4-A) and 1994 (5-A) state championships \n\nBuchholz's football team won the 1990 state championship.\n\nBuchholz's girls' volleyball won the 2007 6-A state girls' volleyball title.\n\nBuchholz's girls' swimming/diving team won the 2009 3-A state title.\n\nBuchholz's girls' basketball team won the 2013 7-A state title.\n\nBuchholz's Golden Regiment won the 2013-2014 and 2014-2015 4-A state title.\n\nBuchholz's Math Team won the Florida Mu Alpha Theta State Title consecutively from 2005 to 2016 and the National Title from 2007 to 2016 and 2018 to 2019.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2132446", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2132446", "title": "Camp Ripley", "text": "Camp Ripley\n\nCamp Ripley is a military and civilian training facility operated by the Minnesota National Guard near the city of Little Falls in the central part of the state. The location of the camp was selected in 1929 by Ellard A. Walsh, Adjutant General of the State of Minnesota. The site's winter warfare training course is the primary facility used by the National Guard for winter combat exercises. Camp Ripley also hosts the training academy for the Minnesota State Patrol and is a popular site for athletes training to compete in winter biathlons. Most Minnesota Guard soldiers train at Camp Ripley during two-week annual training periods.\n\nThe camp is a state game refuge with resources managed cooperatively by the Department of Military Affairs and Department of Natural Resources. It also houses the Minnesota Military Museum, a museum that is open for the public and military personnel. Also on the grounds is the site of Fort Ripley, a military post established in 1848—the second ever built in Minnesota—to keep the peace among the Dakota, Ojibwe, and Ho-Chunk people.\n\nThe Minnesota State Veterans Cemetery is also located on the grounds of Camp Ripley.\n\nThe site for Camp Ripley was first approved following World War I in 1929. The State of Minnesota purchased of land to be used for military training. The site was officially named Camp Ripley in December 1930. It was named after Fort Ripley, a frontier fort that had been closed by the Federal Government in 1877. The fort was named for Brigadier General Eleazar Wheelock Ripley, a hero of the War of 1812. The remains of Fort Ripley are contained within the camp's property boundaries. The first soldiers that came to train at Camp Ripley stayed in tents, thus, training was only possible in the summer months. The government started to see that it was not beneficial to use tents year round while training, so they constructed buildings. There are now many historic buildings at Camp Ripley. An example is Valhalla, the governor's lodge. President Harry S. Truman stayed there twice, as did Senator Eugene McCarthy. When the lodge is not being used by the governor, it is used for other VIP guests.\n\nIn 1951, the Minnesota Legislature approved the purchasing of more land by Camp Ripley. After the purchase they then had of land. Camp Ripley slowly bought more land and now has .\n\nCamp Ripley is the training site for the National Guard, Minnesota State Patrol, Minnesota Wing of the Civil Air Patrol, Minnesota DNR, Minnesota State Fire Marshal (Minnesota Board of Firefighter Training and Education), and Foreign exchange programs. The Army Reserve often trains at Camp Ripley during the summer.\n\nCamp Ripley has small arms and tank ranges, maneuver training areas capable of supporting heavy brigade, and special operation training facilities. Examples of the special operation training facilities are: Three drop zones, rappel tower, confidence course, water training areas, two prisoner of war compounds, and many more.\nThe Miller Army Airfield is also located at the camp. Named for Ray S. Miller, it includes a 6100-foot (1860 m) paved runway capable of accommodating C-130 aircraft. There are also five drop zones for training for the release of cargo and personnel from aircraft. The airfield's FAA identifier is KRYM.\nCamp Ripley has a fully equipped winter training area. It is the National Guard's premier cold weather training site in the United States. There are: Biathlon courses, groomed cross country ski paths, special cold weather equipment, down hill ski slopes and all-weather ranges.\n\nIn addition to being used by the United States military, it sees regular visitors from Canada, the Netherlands, and Norway (exchange programme with the Norwegian Home Guard since February 1974, with a total of 3,000 Norwegians involved over the years and a similar number of Americans having gone to the Norwegian Home Guard training centre at Værnes Air Station), and the United Kingdom.\n\nCamp Ripley houses the Department of Natural Resources Enforcement Center. DNR Conservation Officers are trained year-round in Camp Ripley's diverse habitat. They train by practicing controlled burns and studying the habitat.\n\nCamp Ripley hosts many State Fire training classes; including response, live fire burn exercises, apparatus driving maneuvers, and fire investigations throughout the year.\n\nCamp Ripley hosts the Department of Transportation Snow and Ice snow plowing training each summer.\n\nCamp Ripley has been the host for the Minnesota State Patrol Academy since 1996. The men and women who train to become state patrol officers practice their shooting skills on one of Camp Ripley's ranges and practice driving maneuvers.\n\nThe environment office studies the relationship and compatibility of military activities with wildlife. They use geographic information systems (GIS) to determine training sites, figure out what areas have historic value, where eagle nests are and much more. Wildlife that is specifically studied are: bald eagle, white-tailed deer, black bear, blandings turtle and timber wolf. The Environmental office has won awards for their work at camp ripley and with the local area. The list of awards is as follows:\n\n2008 Secretary of the Army, Environmental Security Award\n\"Natural Resources Conservation – Large Installation\"\n\n2005 Secretary of the Army, Environmental Security Award\n\"Natural Resources Conservation-team\"\n\n1998 Secretary of the Army, Environmental Security Award\n\"Natural Resources Conservation – Large Installation\"\n\nThere are three deer hunts each year at Camp Ripley to help control the deer population: one for disabled veterans and soon-to-be deployed Soldiers, one archery hunt for adults, and a youth archery hunt. There are raffles for the adult and youth archery hunts every year to determine who can participate in the hunt. For each weekend there are about 2,000 hunters.\n\nThe Unmanned Aerial Systems Operations Facility is pending LEED Silver. This was done by the use of local, recyclable materials and enhanced thermal envelope. This will be the first LEED rated building at Camp Ripley. The UASOF was designed by JLG Architects \n\n"}
{"id": "2132449", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2132449", "title": "Chris Hoy", "text": "Chris Hoy\n\nSir Christopher Andrew Hoy, MBE (born 23 March 1976) is a British racing driver and former track cyclist who represented Great Britain at the Olympic and World Championships and Scotland at the Commonwealth Games.\n\nHoy is eleven-times a world champion and six-times an Olympic champion. With a total of seven Olympic medals, six gold and one silver, Hoy is the second most decorated Olympic cyclist of all time.\n\nWith his three gold medals in 2008 Summer Olympics, Hoy became Scotland's most successful Olympian, the first British athlete to win three gold medals in a single Olympic Games since Henry Taylor in 1908, and the most successful Olympic cyclist of all time. After winning a further two gold medals (in the keirin and team sprint) at the 2012 Summer Olympics, Hoy has won more Olympic gold medals (six) than any other British athlete along with Jason Kenny, and more total medals (seven) than any except fellow cyclist Sir Bradley Wiggins.\n\nThe son of David and Carol Hoy. Chris Hoy grew up in the suburb of Murrayfield, near Edinburgh, and was educated at George Watson's College, a private school, followed by two years at the University of St Andrews studying Mathematics and Physics until 1996. He subsequently transferred to the University of Edinburgh, from which he graduated B.Sc. (Hons.) in Applied Sports Science in 1999.\n\nHoy, whose first bike cost £5, was inspired to cycle at age six by the 1982 film \"E.T. the Extra-Terrestrial\". Before track cycling, Hoy raced BMX between the ages of 7 and 14 and was ranked second in Britain, fifth in Europe, and ninth in the world. He received sponsorship from Slazenger and Kwik-Fit, and was competing in Europe and the U.S. He first became aware of track cycling when he watched TV coverage of Scottish sprinter Eddie Alexander winning a bronze medal at the 1986 Commonwealth Games in Edinburgh. Hoy also represented the Scotland Junior Rowing Team and was second in the 1993 National Rowing Championships with Grant Florence in the coxless pairs. He played rugby as part of his school's team.\n\nHoy joined his first cycling club, Dunedin C.C., in 1990, aged 14, and began concentrating on track cycling in 1993, when he joined the City of Edinburgh Racing Club. In 1997, he and fellow Scottish sprinter Craig MacLean were tipped as medal prospects by Phil Liggett.\n\nHoy won silver in Berlin, at the 1999 UCI Track Cycling World Championships in the team sprint, riding at man one, Craig MacLean at 2 and Jason Quealley at 3. Regular teammates in the team sprint over the years have included Craig Maclean, Ross Edgar, Jamie Staff, Jason Queally, Matthew Crampton and Jason Kenny.\n\nFollowing Jason Queally's Gold Medal in the Kilo TT, Hoy joined with him and Craig MacLean to win his first Olympic Medal, a Silver in the Team Sprint or \"Olympic Sprint\" as it was then called. They were beaten by an excellent French team but the two medals won for GB was the start of the renaissance of British Cycling which has led on to remarkable results over his career.\n\nHoy arrived in Athens in the form of his life. His main event was the Kilo Time Trial. He was ranked No 1 and was last man off. The sea level World Record was broken four times as he sat in the track centre waiting for his start. He had been involved in an accident in the athlete's village just a few days prior to competition where he came off his bike in front of a village bus, narrowly avoiding serious injury. As he came out of the starting gate, his scarred arms and legs showed how close he was to not competing.\n\nThe previous rider was Arnaud Tournant who set the fastest ever sea-level kilo. Chris came next and, cheered on by thousands of loyal British fans, he bettered the time on each lap, setting a new sea-level World and Olympic Record of 1.00.711. This was the first of his Olympic Gold medals and added to the Silver, won in the Team Sprint in Sydney in 2000.\n\nFollowing the decision to remove the Kilo from the Olympic programme after the 2004 games, Hoy sought to develop in other events. The first of these was the keirin. This event involves between six and eight riders following a small motorbike (the Derny) around the 250m track for 5.5 laps, as the bike slowly builds up the speed. The bike pulls off with 2.5 laps to go and the riders race for the line. Hoy had previously competed at the keirin in various events but one of his first major successes was at the Manchester round of the World Cup Classics Series in 2007, shortly before the World Championships, where he also won, ahead of his teammate Ross Edgar.\n\nThis showed that Hoy was developing from just a pure power sprinter, in events like the Kilo and Team Sprint, into also being one of the best in the world at more tactical sprinting events such as the keirin and the individual sprint.\n\nOn 12 May 2007, Hoy attempted the world record for the kilometre. He fell 0.005 seconds short, clocking 58.880. He set a record for the 500m flying start at 24.758 seconds, over a second less than the 25.850 set by Arnaud Duble. Hoy set the sea-level kilometre record of 1 minute 0.711 seconds by winning the Olympics in Athens in 2004. The outright record of 58.875 seconds is held by Arnaud Tournant (France), set during 2001 at altitude in La Paz, Bolivia, where Hoy also attempted to break the record. At the time, only 3 sub-60sec kilos had ever been ridden; Hoy recorded two of these over two days in La Paz.\n\nHoy's main achievement is his development in the individual sprint event considered to be the blue riband event of track cycling. Kilo riders like Hoy have historically not fared as well at this event, as they were less experienced in the tactical elements required for the sprint. Previously, Hoy had competed in the sprint at various World Cup events and Revolution meetings in Manchester, but it was not one of his main events and he did not compete in it at the World Championships or the Olympics.\n\nIn the semi finals Hoy defeated Italian veteran Roberto Chiappa 2–0, to set up a meeting in the final against France's Kévin Sireau. Sireau was the World Cup Classics points winner for the season and had defeated Hoy 2–0 in their previous meeting only a few weeks earlier. However, with the vocal Manchester crowd behind him Hoy was not to be denied victory and he completed the win 2–0, the first British man to win the sprint title in 52 years since Reg Harris.\n\nHoy became the first British Olympian for 100 years to claim three golds at one games at the 2008 Summer Olympics in Beijing. This came when he won the men's keirin, the men's team sprint and also the men's individual sprint.\n\nHoy did not race at the first major event of the 2009/10 season, the World Cup Classics Event in Manchester on 4 October – 2 November. He instead made an appearance to sign autographs and commentate with the BBC.\nHe made his return to racing in the UK at the Revolution 22 event in Manchester in December. He received a standing ovation from the Manchester faithful at the start of the event when he was introduced to the crowd. At this event Hoy won both the Sprint and Keirin competitions, defeating likes of Jason Kenny, Jamie Staff, Ross Edgar, Matthew Crampton and Teun Mulder along the way. Hoy competed in the World Cup Classics series' final event in Copenhagen, Denmark in February, helping his team to a gold medal in the team sprint event. However, he crashed out during the men's Keirin final and was forced to miss the final day of competition, including the men's sprint. Although at first, his injury seemed minor, he returned to Manchester where, following a scan, he was diagnosed with a serious de-gloving injury which finished his season and kept him off his bike for almost 3 months. He was unable to compete as planned at the Revolution 24 event in Manchester the following weekend, he did however make an appearance at the event. He had to pull out of the World Championships in Poland at the end of March, where he would have attempted to defend 2 World titles, because of the hip injury.\n\nHoy started the 09/10 track season at the National Cycling Centre, Manchester, at the British National Championships where he took only his second (and third) ever individual national titles. He took gold medals in the Keirin, Sprint and was part of the Team Sprint Team representing team SKY along with Jamie Staff and Jason Kenny. Two weeks later, he raced in round one of the UCI World Cup at the same venue and took gold in the Men's Keirin. He then went into day 2 of the competition and took gold in the sprint event, beating fellow Brit Matthew Crampton in the final 2–0. A third World Cup gold came in the Team Sprint on the Sunday. Having ridden and won 12 events over the weekend, he withdrew from the International Japanese Keirin which was consequently won by Crampton.\n\nAt the 2010 UCI World Championships, Hoy was beaten in the quarter final of the men's sprint event by his German opponent, Robert Förstemann, who won after making an attack from the start line. He was part of the GB men's team sprint that took the bronze. In the Keirin event, Hoy won the gold medal, despite crashing in the heats, to take his tenth world title.\n\nHoy lost in the first round of the men's sprint at the European Championships to Ireland's Felix English. At the Manchester World Cup event in February 2011, Hoy lost in the semi-finals to Jason Kenny. Hoy took the match sprint title at the British National Championships in October 2011.\n\nAt the 2012 World Cup event held in the new London Velodrome, Hoy won three medals. He won gold in the keirin and bronze in the team sprint, before winning gold in the Men's Sprint, losing just one race in four rounds.\n\nHoy was an ambassador for the 2012 Olympic Games in London. Hoy led Team GB out as the team's flag carrier at the opening ceremony. He then went on to win gold in the team sprint with Jason Kenny and Philip Hindes, setting a new world record in the velodrome and becoming Team GB's joint gold record holder with Sir Steve Redgrave's tally of five gold medals with a total of six medals (5 gold, 1 silver).\n\nOn 7 August 2012 Hoy won gold in the Keirin to overtake Sir Steve Redgrave and become the most successful British olympian ever, winning a total of 6 gold medals. This also made him the joint holder of most medals won by any British athlete in the Olympic Games with fellow cyclist Sir Bradley Wiggins.\n\nOn 18 April 2013 Hoy announced his retirement from competitive cycling. He said he was very proud to have taken part in the transformation of the sport.\n\nHoy's interest in motorsport competition led him to contest the inaugural season of the Radical Sportscars SR1 Cup, scooping his first motorsport podium at Snetterton in the same season. Hoy has since contested selected rounds of the Radical SR3 Challenge and Radical European Masters in Radical's SR3 RS and SR8 RX open sportscars. On 8 April 2014 it was announced that Hoy would be joining the British GT championship driving a Nissan GT-R Nismo GT3 with a view to competing in the 24 Hours of Le Mans in 2016.\n\nHoy took his first victory in international competition at the opening round of the 2015 European Le Mans Series at Silverstone where he drove a Ginetta-Nissan to a class win alongside team-mate Charlie Robertson. The pairing took another two wins in the series' LMP3 class, including at the penultimate round at Circuit Paul Ricard, which clinched them the class title with a round to spare.\n\nHe subsequently competed at the 2015 Race of Champions at the London Olympic Stadium, receiving a late invitation to race as part of Team All Stars in the Nations Cup alongside Romain Grosjean as a replacement for Jorge Lorenzo after the motorcyclist suffered leg burns as a result of post-race celebrations on his motorbike when he clinched that season's MotoGP title.\n\nHowever Hoy and Grosjean were knocked out in the first round by the Young Stars team of Pascal Wehrlein and Jolyon Palmer.\n\nIn March 2016 it was confirmed that Hoy would be entered for the 2016 Le Mans 24 Hours, sharing a Ligier JS P2-Nissan with Andrea Pizzitola and Michael Munemann. He was the first Summer Olympic medallist to compete at Le Mans, the ninth former Olympian to race there and the second Olympic champion to do so, after alpine skier Henri Oreiller.\n\nHoy and his team-mates finished the race in 17th overall and 12th in class.\n\nHoy unveiled the brand which bears his name in November 2012, three months after winning the double Olympic gold in London. The debut range included three road bikes and four city bikes, as well as a track bike. It was later extended by several other designs, including bicycles for children.\n\nHoy is married to Sarra Kemp, a lawyer from Edinburgh. They got married in 2010 at St Giles' Cathedral, Edinburgh. They have a son, Callum, and a daughter, Chloe.\n\nHoy's autobiography was published in 2009. Hoy's first two children's fiction books, about a young cyclist called Flying Fergus, were published in 2016.\n\nIn April 2013 Hoy accepted the appointment of ambassador to the Royal Air Force Air Cadets and assumed the rank of Honorary Group Captain RAFVR(T). He has since relinquished this role. In 2013, Hoy was appointed as an ambassador for UNICEF UK, having been an International Inspiration ambassador for UNICEF since 2009.\n\nHoy has been Ambassador for SAMH (Scottish Association for Mental Health) since 2009. In that time he has devoted many hours to raising awareness of and funds for the mental health cause.\n\nIn December 2016 and December 2017 Hoy supported the Scottish Social Enterprise Social Bite by sleeping out at their Sleep in the Park events to end homelessness in Scotland.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2132454", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2132454", "title": "Evolutionary graph theory", "text": "Evolutionary graph theory\n\nEvolutionary graph theory is an area of research lying at the intersection of graph theory, probability theory, and mathematical biology. Evolutionary graph theory is an approach to studying how topology affects evolution of a population. That the underlying topology can substantially affect the results of the evolutionary process is seen most clearly in a paper by Erez Lieberman, Christoph Hauert and Martin Nowak.\n\nIn evolutionary graph theory, individuals occupy vertices of a weighted directed graph and the weight w of an edge from vertex \"i\" to vertex \"j\" denotes the probability of \"i\" replacing \"j\". The weight corresponds to the biological notion of fitness where fitter types propagate more readily. \nOne property studied on graphs with two types of individuals is the \"fixation probability\", which is defined as the probability that a single, randomly placed mutant of type A will replace a population of type B. According to the \"isothermal theorem\", a graph has the same fixation probability as the corresponding Moran process if and only if it is isothermal, thus the sum of all weights that lead into a vertex is the same for all vertices. Thus, for example, a complete graph with equal weights describes a Moran process. The fixation probability is\nwhere \"r\" is the relative fitness of the invading type.\n\nGraphs can be classified into amplifiers of selection and suppressors of selection. If the fixation probability of a single advantageous mutation formula_2 is higher than the fixation probability of the corresponding Moran process formula_3 then the graph is an amplifier, otherwise a suppressor of selection. One example of the suppressor of selection is a linear process where only vertex \"i-1\" can replace vertex \"i\" (but not the other way around). In this case the fixation probability is formula_4 (where \"N\" is the number of vertices) since this is the probability that the mutation arises in the first vertex which will eventually replace all the other ones. Since formula_5 for all \"r\" greater than 1, this graph is by definition a suppressor of selection.\n\nEvolutionary graph theory may also be studied in a dual formulation, as a coalescing random walk, or as a stochastic process. We may consider the mutant population on a graph as a random walk between absorbing barriers representing mutant extinction and mutant fixation. For highly symmetric graphs, we can then use martingales to find the \"fixation probability\" as illustrated by Monk (2018).\n\nAlso evolutionary games can be studied on graphs where again an edge between \"i\" and \"j\" means that these two individuals will play a game against each other.\n\nClosely related stochastic processes include the voter model, which was introduced by Clifford and Sudbury (1973) and independently by Holley and Liggett (1975), and which has been studied extensively.\n\n\nA virtual laboratory for studying evolution on graphs:\n"}
{"id": "2132470", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2132470", "title": "Atziluth", "text": "Atziluth\n\nAtziluth or Atzilut (also \"Olam Atsiluth\", עוֹלָם אֲצִילוּת, literally \"the World of Emanation\"), is the highest of four worlds in which exists the Kabbalistic Tree of Life. Beri'ah follows it. It is known as the World of Emanations, or the World of Causes. In the Kabbalah, each of the Sephiroth in this world is associated with a Name of God, and it is associated with the Suit of Wands in the Tarot.\n\nAtziluth is the realm of pure divinity. The four worlds of Kabbalah relate to the Tree of Life in two primary ways: \n\nIt should be remembered that in Kabbalah each of the ten Sephirot of the Tree of Life also contains a whole tree inside itself. In this philosophy of the \"whole in the part,\" Kabbalastic theories are in harmony with David Bohm's model of implicate order. The realm of Atziluth is thus related to the top three Sephirot of the Tree of Life; these three spheres of Kether, Chokmah and Binah are considered to be wholly spiritual in nature and are separated from the rest of the tree by a region of reality called the Abyss.\n\nThe word is derived from \"atzal\" in reference to ; and in this sense it was taken over into the Kabbalah from Solomon ibn Gabirol's \"Meḳor Ḥayyim\" (The Fountain of Life), which was much used by Kabbalists. The theory of emanation, which is conceived as a free act of the will of God, endeavors to surmount the difficulties that attach to the idea of creation in its relation to God. These difficulties are threefold: \nThe simile used for the emanation is either the soaked sponge that emits spontaneously the water it has absorbed, or the gushing spring that overflows, or the sunlight that sends forth its rays—parts of its own essence—everywhere, without losing any portion, however infinitesimal, of its being. Since it was the last-named simile that chiefly occupied and influenced the Kabbalistic writers, Atziluth must properly be taken to mean \"eradiation\" (compare \"Zohar\", Exodus Yitro, 86\"b\").\n\nLater on the expression \"Atziluth\" assumed a more specific meaning, influenced no doubt by the little work, \"Maseket Atzilut.\" Herein for the first time (following : \"I have created\"; \"I have formed\"; \"I have made\"), the four worlds are distinguished: Atziluth, Beri'ah, Yetzirah, and Assiah. But here too they are transferred to the region of spirits and angels: \nIn the \"Zohar\", Atziluth is taken to be simply the direct emanation of God, in contradistinction to the other emanations derived from the Sephirot. No fourfold world is mentioned.\n\nMoses Cordovero and Isaac Luria (sixteenth century) were the first to introduce the fourfold world as an essential principle into Kabbalistic speculation. According to this doctrine,\nIn contradistinction to the Atzilah-world, which constitutes the domain of the Sephirot, the three other worlds are called by the general name \"Pirud\". Later Kabbalists explain \"Atziluth\" (according to , and ) as meaning \"excellence,\" so that according to them the Atzilah-world would mean the most excellent or highest world.\n\n"}
{"id": "2132476", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2132476", "title": "John O'Mahony (disambiguation)", "text": "John O'Mahony (disambiguation)\n\nJohn O'Mahony (1816–1877) was founder of the Irish Republican Brotherhood.\n\nJohn O'Mahony may also refer to:\n"}
{"id": "2132478", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2132478", "title": "Beri'ah", "text": "Beri'ah\n\nBeri'ah (Hebrew: בְּרִיאָה or בְּרִיָה), Briyah, or Briah (also known as \"Olam Beriah\", עוֹלָם בְּרִיאָה in Hebrew, literally \"the World of Creation\"), is the second of the four celestial worlds in the Tree of Life of the Kabbalah, intermediate between the World of Emanation (Atziluth) and the World of Formation (Yetzirah), the third world, that of the angels. It is known as the World of Creation, or Korsia (from Heb. כּוּרסָה - \"seat, chair\", \"the Throne\"). \n\nBeri'ah is the first of the four worlds to be created ex nihilo, since Atzilut was emanated rather than created. Thus, although there exist beings that dwell in Atzilut, those beings are overwhelmed by the Divine Light and are unaware of their own existence; in Beri'ah however, the angels are dimly aware of their own existence as distinct from God's.\n\nBeri'ah is the abode of the permanent archangels, as opposed to the non-permanent angels which dwell in Yetzirah. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "2132480", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2132480", "title": "Enforcer (ice hockey)", "text": "Enforcer (ice hockey)\n\nEnforcer or policeman is an unofficial role in ice hockey. The term is sometimes used synonymously with \"fighter\", \"tough guy\", or \"goon\". An enforcer's job is to deter and respond to dirty or violent play by the opposition. When such play occurs, the enforcer is expected to respond aggressively, by fighting or checking the offender. Enforcers are expected to react particularly harshly to violence against star players or goalies.\n\nEnforcers are different from pests, players who seek to agitate opponents and distract them from the game, without necessarily fighting them. The pest's primary role is to draw penalties from opposing players, thus \"getting them off their game\", while not actually intending to fight the opposition player (although exceptions to this do occur). Pests and enforcers often play together on the same line, usually the fourth line.\n\nAt present in the National Hockey League (NHL), teams generally do not carry more than one player whose primary role is that of an enforcer. Enforcers can play either forward or defense, although they are most frequently used as wingers on the fourth forward checking line. Prized for their aggression, size, checking ability, and fists, enforcers are typically less gifted at skill areas of the game than their teammates. Enforcers are typically among the lowest scoring players on the team and receive a smaller share of ice time. They are also not highly paid compared to other players, and tend to move from team to team.\n\nEnforcers are nevertheless often popular on their teams. \"The enforcer, sometimes mocked as a goon or euphemized as a tough guy, may be hockey's favorite archetype,\" wrote John Branch of \"The New York Times\". \"Enforcers are seen as working-class superheroes—understated types with an alter ego willing to do the sport's most dangerous work to protect others. And they are underdogs, men who otherwise might have no business in the game.\" John Scott's reputation as an enforcer and fan favorite helped him earn enough fan votes to secure a spot in the 61st National Hockey League All-Star Game despite having been demoted out of the league at the time of his election; he nonetheless unexpectedly played a key role in his division's victory by scoring two goals, where fan response also led to him being named most valuable player of the tournament. Fighting skills can help a less-talented or smaller player play in leagues that their hockey alone would not.\n\nEnforcers sometimes take boxing lessons to improve their fighting. Some players combine aspects of the enforcer role with strong play in other areas of the game. Tiger Williams, Bob Probert, and Chris Simon are examples of enforcers who showed an occasional scoring flair, with Williams and Probert playing in the midseason All-Star Game. Terry O'Reilly once scored 90 points in a season, being the first player to finish in the top ten regular season scorers while amassing at least 200 penalty minutes, and later became captain of the Boston Bruins.\n\nSometimes enforcers can do their job by virtue of their reputation. Clark Gillies was among the best fighters in the NHL during his prime, but over time he rarely had to fight because opponents respected and feared him enough that they would not go after his teammates. Some skilled players, such as legends Gordie Howe and NHL all-star Jarome Iginla, are also capable fighters and can function effectively as their own enforcer. A \"Gordie Howe hat trick\" is a player scoring a goal, assisting on a goal, and being involved in a fight during a single game.\n\nIn the 1970s, the Boston Bruins and Philadelphia Flyers were known respectively as the \"Big Bad Bruins\" and \"Broad Street Bullies\", for stocking up on grinders and enforcers.\n\nThe role of the enforcer has diminished since rule enforcement changed following the 2004–05 NHL lockout to increase game speed and scoring. With a decrease in fighting, teams are less inclined to keep a roster spot available for a one-dimensional fighter who is a liability as a scorer and defender. This has led to a decrease in the number of players whose predominant role is enforcer. Instead, more well-rounded players are expected to contribute aspects of the enforcer role. Intimidation and fighting continue to be utilized as a strategy in the NHL. In the 2007-08 NHL season fights occurred in 38.46% of the games, up from 33% the season before, which was just below the pre-lockout fighting level of 41.14% of games in the 2003–04 season. The frequency has steadily declined over time, however, from 1.3 fights per game in the late 1980s to 0.5 in 2012. Major penalties for fighting declined by 25% annually in the first half of the 2011–2012 season.\n\nAnother possible reason for the decline in fighting and the use of the enforcer role is greater awareness of the risks from head trauma and resulting chronic traumatic encephalopathy. During the summer of 2011, three NHL enforcers died. Derek Boogaard died at the age of 28 from an accidental mixture of painkillers and alcohol. Rick Rypien died at the age of 27 from what was later confirmed as a suicide. Wade Belak was found dead at the age of 35 in his Toronto hotel room in circumstances that caused a newspaper's police source to categorize his death as a suicide.\n\nRetired enforcer Georges Laraque has suggested the National Hockey League Players' Association provide counselling to enforcers, but sports journalist and writer Roy Macgregor opines that in light of recent tragic events there should be more done about it, including eliminating the role altogether. \"New York Times\" sportswriter John Branch covered Boogaard's death and the epidemic of chronic traumatic encephalopathy that has come as a result of frequent head trauma sustained by hockey enforcers.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2132483", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2132483", "title": "KPNZ", "text": "KPNZ\n\nKPNZ, virtual and UHF digital channel 24, is an Azteca América owned-and-operated television station serving Salt Lake City, Utah, United States that is licensed to Ogden. Owned by HC2 Holdings, it is sister to low-power station KBTU-LD (channel 23). KPNZ's studios are located on North Wright Brothers Drive in the northwestern section of Salt Lake City, and its transmitter is located on Farnsworth Peak in the Oquirrh Mountains, southwest of Salt Lake City.\n\nThe station first signed on the air on December 6, 1998 as KAZG, originally operating as an independent station. It became the Salt Lake City market's UPN affiliate, after the network disaffiliated from KJZZ-TV (channel 14) in January 2001. This change came about due to several factors, most notably a disagreement over affiliate compensation, preemption terms, and what KJZZ ownership saw as the lack of financial viability of urban-themed programming in the Salt Lake City market. In October 2000, KJZZ made national headlines when it demanded the right to back out of its UPN contract if UPN increased its \"urban/ethnic programming\" to more than two hours per week. UPN responded by moving their programming to KAZG, which then changed its call letters to KPNZ. In August 2001, the station moved its operations from its original studio facility in Ogden to the International Center in Salt Lake City.\n\nOn January 24, 2006, the Warner Bros. unit of Time Warner and CBS Corporation announced that the two companies would shut down The WB and UPN and combine the networks' respective programming to create a new \"fifth\" network called The CW. Later that year, KPNZ stopped using UPN branding on its website, referring to the station as \"Utah's 24\". On June 5, 2006, KPNZ removed UPN programming from its schedule in retaliation for being passed over by both The CW (which went to former WB affiliate KUWB, channel 30, now KUCW) and another new netlet, News Corporation's MyNetworkTV (which at the time went to KJZZ-TV, channel 14, which has since reverted to independent status).\n\nOn May 30, 2007, Utah Communications, LLC, the licensee of KPNZ, filed an application with the FCC to sell the station to Liberman Broadcasting, a media company whose television properties operated as Spanish-language independent stations at the time. The sale was completed on November 30, 2007. After Liberman took over, it continued to broadcast entirely in English until February 2008, when it officially adopted a Spanish-language programming format. On September 14, 2009, KPNZ and the other Liberman television stations became owned-and-operated stations of the new Spanish-language network, Estrella TV.\n\nOn June 20, 2018, Liberman announced it was selling KPNZ to HC2 Holdings; the sale was completed on October 26. Upon the sale's completion, the station's affiliation was changed to Azteca América, a network owned by HC2 Holdings.\n\nThe station's digital signal is multiplexed:\nBecause it was granted an original construction permit after the FCC finalized the DTV allotment plan on April 21, 1997 , the station did not receive a companion channel for a digital television station. Instead, when KPNZ shut down its analog signal, over UHF channel 24, on June 12, 2009. The station \"flash-cut\" its digital signal into operation UHF channel 24.\n\nIn May 2005, human resources director/accounting manager Brad Brewer was fired from KPNZ for embezzlement. Two months later, Brewer, general manager Kurt Gentry and traffic manager Bonnie Dunn were arrested by Salt Lake City Police on charges of theft, fraud and forgery. The charges against Gentry were dropped after investigation by the Salt Lake District Attorney's Office. Charges against Dunn were dismissed in court as well. Brewer was charged with 31 separate counts and has since settled. All charges have been dropped or dismissed. The circumstances behind the arrests and dismantling of KPNZ are still unclear, though many rumors have been made public by partners, former employees and clients.\n\nIn February 2014, KPNZ was involved in the FCC ruling to pay a $9,000 fine. This was due to the station \"willfully and repeatedly violat[ing] Section 11.35(a) of the Commission's rules...by failing to maintain operational Emergency Alert System (EAS) equipment and logs.\" \n\n"}
{"id": "2132484", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2132484", "title": "Yetzirah", "text": "Yetzirah\n\nYetzirah (also known as \"Olam Yetsirah\", עוֹלָם יְצִירָה in Hebrew) is the third of four worlds in the Kabbalistic Tree of Life, following Atziluth and Beri'ah and preceding Assiah. It is known as the \"World of Formation\".\n\n\"Yetzirah\" as in \"formation\" is as opposed to \"Beriah\" as in \"creation\": actually taking whatever matter that was created in \"Beriah\" and shaping it into the basic elements.\n\nOn the Tree of Life diagram Yetzirah is associated with the sefirot Chesed, Gevurah, Tiferet, Netzach, Hod and Yesod. Together, these six sefirot are known as the Microprosopus (Zeir Anpin) also known as the 'Lesser Countenance' or the 'Small Face.' In this sense, it stands in contrast with the Macroprosopus (Arich Anpin).\n\nThe moment of formation, when the fetus' form becomes apparent, is called \"the formation of the child\" and corresponds to the world of Yetzirah. The external state of consciousness in the World of Formation is called ״half good and half evil.״ The \"half evil\" refers to the self-consciousness of the beings of this world. The \"half good\" refers to the emotional sensitivity of one to the other as expressed in the genuine desire to make the other happy. This external dimension of Yetzirah is the seat of heated emotion, of “hotheadedness.”\n\nA more internal dimension of Yetzirah—based on the awareness that the true battleground between good and evil is within us—is the emotional imperative to pit the good inclination against the evil inclination. But in order for our good inclination to be victorious over our evil inclination, it must first be empowered by an input of Divine light and energy. God gives us this input in the merit of our first devoting ourselves to do good for our fellows.\n\nThe consciousness of the world of Yetzirah is that of communing with God, speaking to Him directly in prayer or indirectly through the study of His Torah and taking counsel with a true Torah sage. The perspective of the world of Yetzirah as a state of consciousness is based on general notions. At this level, particular definitions are not apparent. The sense of selfhood that is apparent at this level of consciousness can only be grasped in impersonal language.\n\nNon-permanent angels dwell in the world of Yetzirah, unlike archangels which reside in Briah.\n\nIn addition, Yetzirah corresponds to:\n"}
{"id": "2132487", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2132487", "title": "Qoriniasi Bale", "text": "Qoriniasi Bale\n\nQoriniasi Babitu Bale (1941 — 21 March 2014) was a lawyer and politician who served twice as Fiji's Minister for Justice and Attorney-General, most recently from 2001 to 2006, when he was deposed in the military coup of 5 December. Like many of Fiji's most influential leaders, Bale was a native of Levukana in Vanua Balavu in the Lau Islands.\n\nBale was educated at Queen Victoria School then University of Otago in New Zealand, where he graduated with a LLB degree in 1969. Upon returning to Fiji, he was appointed a Crown Counsel in the Crown Law Office, and subsequently became a Crown Prosecutor in the Office of the Director of Public Prosecutions in 1970. In 1975, he became Principal Legal Officer in the Crown Law Office, before being promoted to Solicitor General in 1979, a post he held until 1984. He was the first native-born Solicitor General; his predecessors had all been from the United Kingdom.\n\nBale had his first foray into politics in 1984, when the Governor General of Fiji appointed him to the Senate at the nomination of Prime Minister Ratu Sir Kamisese Mara. At that time the Senate consisted of 22 members, 7 of whom were nominated by the Prime Minister. He became Attorney General in the Cabinet, and later that year was also appointed to the newly created position of Minister for Justice. He retired from politics, however, following the defeat of the Alliance Party in the general election of 1987.\n\nFollowing the Fiji coups of 1987, Bale went into private practice as a lawyer. He served as Legal Adviser to the Great Council of Chiefs and the Fijian Affairs Board for 18 years, and as Chairman of the Electoral Commission and the Constituency Boundaries Commission from 1990 to 1996. He was also Chairman of Ratu Sukuna Memorial School from 1988 to 1996, and Chairman of the Council of the Fiji School of Medicine for 10 years.\n\nFollowing the restoration of democracy after the Fiji coup of 2000, Prime Minister Laisenia Qarase appointed Bale to the Senate in September 2001. One of the 9 out of 32 Senators chosen by the Prime Minister, he found himself holding the portfolios of Attorney-General and Minister for Justice once more.\n\nA member of the Soqosoqo Duavata ni Lewenivanua Party (SDL), he was known to have Fijian nationalist sympathies and called for substantial amendments to be made to the Constitution adopted in 1997. This Constitution, which was abrogated in the course of the 2000 coup, was subsequently reinstated in March 2001, following two court rulings.\n\nIn May and June 2005, Bale promoted the Reconciliation, Tolerance, and Unity Bill, which proposes the establishment of a Commission with the power, subject to presidential approval, to compensate victims and pardon perpetrators of crimes related to the 2000 coup.\n\nIn July 2006, Bale claimed that the Fiji Labour Party had no right to call itself the opposition and appoint shadow ministers. Bale said \"as far as the Opposition goes there are only two formal Opposition members while the rest of the FLP members are government back-benchers.\"\n"}
{"id": "2132491", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2132491", "title": "Bugsworth Basin", "text": "Bugsworth Basin\n\nBugsworth Basin is a canal basin at the terminus of the Peak Forest Canal. It is located at Buxworth (formerly Bugsworth) in the valley of the Black Brook, close to Whaley Bridge. It was once a busy interchange with the Peak Forest Tramway, for the transport of limestone and burnt lime.\n\nWork on the restoration of the derelict Bugsworth Basin, a Scheduled Ancient Monument since 1977, commenced in 1968. Volunteers of the Inland Waterways Protection Society (IWPS) helped by the Waterway Recovery Group (WRG) and many locals restored parts of this important site over three decades. The IWPS obtained a 50-year lease in 1992, which allowed them to restore, manage and operate the basin. Funding for the improvements came from British Waterways, the European Regional Development Fund and a Derelict Land Grant from Derbyshire County Council. The basin was reopened to boats at Easter 1999, and a significant increase in the use of the canal occurred. However, this was the first time that powered boats had used the basin, and the dry-stone walling with clay puddling deteriorated rapidly. Walls collapsed, there were several near breaches, and a breach resulted in the basin closing again in October 1999. British Waterways restored pedestrian access to the basin by carrying out emergency repairs.\n\nIn 2005 the basin reopened to boat traffic after a £1.2 million restoration, undertaken by British Waterways working with the IWPS. Work included sealing the bottom of the basin to stop leakage, stonework repair and environmental measures to conserve the site's protected water vole population. Although restoration and reopening of the basin has been achieved, waterways enthusiasts want to make future improvements and developments. These include an interpretative exhibition about Bugsworth's history and reopening part of the tramway.\n\nBugsworth Basin was officially reopened on 26 March 2005 when 94 narrowboats attended the opening ceremony. The opening was performed by Tom Levitt, the then member of parliament for High Peak.\n\nThe basin is situated on the fringe of the Peak District National Park and the purpose of the restoration was to develop this industrial heritage site as a tourist centre.\n\n"}
{"id": "2132521", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2132521", "title": "Makivik Corporation", "text": "Makivik Corporation\n\nMakivik Corporation (Inuktitut: Makivvik Kuapuriisat – ᒪᑭᕝᕕᒃ ᑯᐊᐳᕇᓴᑦ, ) is the legal representative of Quebec's Inuit, established in 1978 under the terms of the James Bay and Northern Quebec Agreement, the agreement that established the institutions of Nunavik. As such, it is the heir of the \"Northern Quebec Inuit Association\" (Inuktitut: \"Kupaik Tarrangani Inuit Katujjiqatigiingit\" - \"ᑯᐸᐃᒃ ᑕᕐᕋᖓᓂ ᐃᓄᐃᑦ ᑲᑐᔾᔨᖃᑎᒌᖏᑦ\"), which signed the agreement with the governments of Quebec and Canada.\n\nIts principal responsibility is the administration of Inuit lands and the over in compensation funds it has received under the terms of the James Bay and Northern Quebec Agreement of 1975 and the more recent offshore Nunavik Inuit Land Claims Agreement that came into effect in 2008. It has a mandate to use those funds to promote the economic and social development of Inuit society in Nunavik. Makivik Corporation is also empowered to negotiate new agreements with governments on behalf of the Quebec Inuit and to represent them on bodies like the Inuit Tapiriit Kanatami and the Inuit Circumpolar Council.\n\nThe corporation is run by a five-member executive committee including a president, and a 16-member board of directors. Members of both bodies are elected by the Inuit of Nunavik. The executive committee and board of directors together appoint a board of governors to act as an elders' council. Makivik's president is Charlie Watt. It is headquartered in Kuujjuaq, Quebec, and has offices in Inukjuak, Quebec, Montreal, Quebec, Quebec City, Quebec, and Ottawa, Ontario. It has roughly 100 employees.\n\nMakivik has donated some to non-profit and cultural institutions in Nunavik, including funding the construction of recreation facilities in each of Nunavik's communities. However, the bulk of its financial activities have been in the form of investments, both in Canadian and international markets and in economic activities directly relevant to Nunavik.\n\nOn April 11, 2014, Makivik Corporation and Norterra, owners of Canadian North, announced that they were in negotiations to merge the two airlines. According to a website set up the same day, the new airline would be owned equally between the two companies and \"a merger would create a stronger, more sustainable business, provide better service to customers and lead to new economic development opportunities across the North. We believe the two companies would complement each other’s strengths.\" In October 2014, it was announced the merger would not go through.\n\nIt has a number of wholly owned subsidiaries and joint ventures active in Nunavik:\n\n\n\"Makivik's joint ventures are primarily firms co-owned with other Inuit development funds.\"\n\nCompare\n\n"}
{"id": "2132531", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2132531", "title": "Tickenham", "text": "Tickenham\n\nTickenham is an ornate village and civil parish near Clevedon and Nailsea, North Somerset, England. The parish has a population of 910. It has a primary school and a village hall, but no shops, although it formerly had a post office.\n\nA typical ribbon development, Tickenham extends for approximately two miles along the B3130 road, which runs along the bottom of a ridge of hills between Clevedon and Failand. There are a few short side-roads, but for most of this distance the village consists of detached houses and farmhouses built along the edge of the main road.\n\nOn a hill to the north of the village is Cadbury Camp, an Iron Age hill fort. It is not uncommon to find ancient pottery shards in the surrounding grassland.\n\nThe parish of Tickenham was part of the Portbury Hundred.\n\nThe mill on the Land Yeo was established in the middle of the 12th century by Canons of the Abbey of St Augustine, (now Bristol Cathedral) who were granted the patronage of the living of Tickenham by Robert Fitzhardinge. In the 19th century the mill was owned by the Ashton Court Estate and in the 20th century was used as a water pump. It has now been converted into a private house.\n\nThe parish council has responsibility for local issues, including setting an annual precept (local rate) to cover the council’s operating costs and producing annual accounts for public scrutiny. The parish council evaluates local planning applications and works with the local police, district council officers, and neighbourhood watch groups on matters of crime, security, and traffic. The parish council's role also includes initiating projects for the maintenance and repair of parish facilities, such as the village hall or community centre, playing fields and playgrounds, as well as consulting with the district council on the maintenance, repair, and improvement of highways, drainage, footpaths, public transport, and street cleaning. Conservation matters (including trees and listed buildings) and environmental issues are also of interest to the council.\n\nThe parish falls within the unitary authority of North Somerset which was created in 1996, as established by the Local Government Act 1992. It provides a single tier of local government with responsibility for almost all local government functions within their area including local planning and building control, local roads, council housing, environmental health, markets and fairs, refuse collection, recycling, cemeteries, crematoria, leisure services, parks, and tourism. They are also responsible for education, social services, libraries, main roads, public transport, trading standards, waste disposal and strategic planning, although fire, police and ambulance services are provided jointly with other authorities through the Avon Fire and Rescue Service, Avon and Somerset Constabulary and the Great Western Ambulance Service.\n\nNorth Somerset's area covers part of the ceremonial county of Somerset but it is administered independently of the non-metropolitan county. Its administrative headquarters are in the town hall in Weston-super-Mare. Between 1 April 1974 and 1 April 1996, it was the Woodspring district of the county of Avon. Before 1974 that the parish was part of the Long Ashton Rural District.\n\nThe parish is represented in the House of Commons of the Parliament of the United Kingdom as part of the North Somerset constituency, formerly part of the Woodspring constituency. It elects one Member of Parliament (MP) by the first past the post system of election.\n\nOn the top of the hill accessed from either end of the village is a series of large houses and mansions.\n\nThere are several fruit farms and orchards in the village, some operating commercially and some in the gardens of private houses (owners will often sell their fruit when it is in season). The south-facing slopes on the north side of the B3130 make this a good area for horticulture, and is the site of the Limebreach Wood nature reserve. To the south of the B3130 is a large area of flat pasture less than five metres above sea level, known as Tickenham Moor, which is part of the Tickenham, Nailsea and Kenn Moors Site of Special Scientific Interest. This is mainly used for dairy farming.\n\nNow incorporating an area of protected limestone grassland home to many uncommon and endangered species, the ridge previously supported small-scale commercial limestone quarries, evidence of which remains. Several now derelict lime kilns give testament to this forgotten industry.\n\nA small river, the Land Yeo, flows through the parish.\n\nTickenham Court (now a farm) contains a complete hall of around 1400 and parlour/solar wing of 1500 added to the west wing.\n\nTickenham Court was the home of Lady Eleanor Glanville, the 17th-century English entomologist.\nThe Glanville fritillary butterfly is named after her.\n\nThe farm was used by the Home Guard for five years during the war and left in an almost derelict condition. During the second part of the 20th century the estate was farmed by agronomist Dr William Plant whose wife Ruth was an architect who restored the property.\n\n\nThe M5 Motorway runs on the northern side of Tickenham Hill. The noise of the motorway is mostly muffled by the hill and woodland. Where the M5 cuts through the hill in a man made valley, there is a footbridge connecting either side of the hill.\n\nThe small village primary school usually has around 100 pupils from the locality.\n\nThe parish Church of St. Quiricus and St. Julietta has 11th-century origins, with the nave and chancel being extended by the addition of aisles and the south chapel in the early 13th century. It has been designated as a Grade I listed building.\n\nThe church's dedication is extremely unusual — there are three similar dedications in the UK, two in Cornwall, and one at Swaffham Prior, in Cambridgeshire.\n"}
{"id": "2132535", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2132535", "title": "Geldrop", "text": "Geldrop\n\nGeldrop is a town in the Dutch province of North Brabant. It is located in the municipality of Geldrop-Mierlo.\n\nGeldrop was a separate municipality until 2004, when it merged with Mierlo.\n\nGeldrop is noted for having a neighbourhood with streets named after characters and elements from the works of J. R. R. Tolkien.\n\nThe spoken language is \"Geldrops\", a distinct dialect within the East Brabantian dialect group and very similar to colloquial Dutch.\n\nRoad: Geldrop is linked with Eindhoven to the east by A67 motorway.\n<br>\nRailway: Geldrop railway station.\n\nGeldrop has proven a fertile ground for archaeological digs, with finds from various historical and prehistorical eras.\n\nThe exact age of Geldrop isn't known. Through the years, several archaeological finds were made which testify to prehistoric occupants.\n\nWhere over 10.000 years ago reindeer hunters of the so-called Ahrensburg culture placed their tents, the finds on the Geldrops grounds included, among other things, two toes with engraving. On one of them a reindeer horn was represented, on the other one a dancing little girl who got nicknamed \"The Venus of Mierlo\".\n\nFinds in the south of Zesgehuchten (a district of Geldrop) indicate small settlements from the New Stone Age (about 3000 BC).\n\nFinds from the Roman Period and the early Middle Ages have been found off Genoenhuis and Hoog Geldrop (districts in Geldrop). In the autumn of 1989, archaeological diggings at the nearby 't Zand Cemetery found four settlements from the late Roman Period and the Middle Ages: a period which covers the years between 350 and 1225 AD.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2132537", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2132537", "title": "Edward Bok", "text": "Edward Bok\n\nEdward William Bok (born Eduard Willem Gerard Cesar Hidde Bok) (October 9, 1863 – January 9, 1930) was a Dutch-born American editor and Pulitzer Prize-winning author. He was editor of the \"Ladies' Home Journal\" for 30 years (1889-1919). Bok is credited with coining the term \"living room\" as the name for a room of a house that had commonly been called the \"parlor\" or \"drawing room\". He also created Bok Tower Gardens in central Florida.\n\nBok was born in Den Helder, Netherlands. At the age of six, he immigrated to Brooklyn, New York. In Brooklyn he washed the windows of a bakery shop after school to help support his family. His people were so poor that in addition he used to go out in the street with a basket every day and collect stray bits of coal that had fallen in the gutter where the coal wagons had delivered fuel.\n\nIn 1882 Edward Bok began work with Henry Holt and Company. In 1884 he became involved with Charles Scribner's Sons, where he eventually became its advertising manager. From 1884 until 1887 Bok was the editor of \"The Brooklyn Magazine\", and in 1886 he founded the Bok Syndicate Press.\n\nAfter moving to Philadelphia in 1889, he obtained the editorship of \"Ladies Home Journal\" when its founder and editor Louisa Knapp Curtis stepped down to a less intense role at the popular, nationally circulated publication. It was published by Cyrus Curtis, who had an established publishing empire that included many newspapers and magazines.\n\nIn 1896 Bok married Mary L. Curtis, the daughter of Louisa and Cyrus Curtis. She shared her family's interest in music, cultural activities, and philanthropy and was very active in social circles. Shortly before his marriage, he published an advice book for young men. He noted among other things, that \"A man who truly loves his mother, wife, sister or sweetheart never tells a story which lowers her sex in the eyes of others.\" During his editorship, the Journal became the first magazine in the world to have one million subscribers and it became very influential among readers by featuring informative and progressive ideas in its articles. The magazine focused upon the social issues of the day. When Bok's autobiography, \"The Americanization of Edward Bok\", appeared in 1920, he reviewed it with an interest based on long acquaintance with the magazine. Mencken observed that Bok showed an irrepressible interest in things artistic:\n\nWhen he looked at the houses in which his subscribers lived, their drab hideousness made him sick. When he went inside and contemplated the lambrequins, the gilded cattails, the Rogers groups, the wax fruit under glass domes, the emblazoned seashells from Asbury Park, the family Bible on the marble-topped center-table, the crayon enlargements of Uncle Richard and Aunt Sue, the square pianos, the Brussels carpets, the grained woodwork—when his eyes alighted upon such things, his soul revolted, and at once his moral enthusiasm incited him to attempt a reform. The result was a long series of \"Ladies' Home Journal\" crusades against the hideousness of the national scene – in domestic architecture, in house furnishing, in dress, in town buildings, in advertising. Bok flung himself headlong into his campaigns, and practically every one of them succeeded. ... If there were gratitude in the land, there would be a monument to him in every town in the Republic. He has been, aesthetically, probably the most useful citizen that ever breathed its muggy air.\n\nThe \"Journal\" also became the first magazine to refuse patent medicine advertisements. In 1919, after thirty years at the journal, Bok retired.\n\nIn 1923 Bok proposed the American Peace Award.\n\nIn 1924 Mary Louise Bok founded the Curtis Institute of Music in Philadelphia, which she dedicated to her father, Cyrus Curtis, and in 1927, the Boks embarked upon the construction of Bok Tower Gardens, near their winter home in Mountain Lake Estates, Lake Wales, Florida, which was dedicated on February 1, 1929, by the president of the United States, Calvin Coolidge. Bok Tower is sometimes called a sanctuary and is listed on the National Register of Historic Places as a National Historic Landmark. Bok is used as an example in Dale Carnegie's \"How to Win Friends and Influence People.\"\n\nBok died on January 9, 1930, in Lake Wales, Florida, within sight of his beloved Singing Tower. Two of his grandsons are Derek Bok and Gordon Bok.\n\nIn 1895, Bok began publishing in \"Ladies Home Journal\" plans for building houses which were affordable for the American middle class – from $1,500 to $5,000 – and made full specifications with regional prices available by mail for $5. Later, Bok and the \"Journal\" became a major force in promoting the \"bungalow\", a style of residence which derived from India. Plans for these houses cost as little as a dollar, and the -story dwelling, some as small as 800 square feet, soon became a dominant form of new domestic architecture in the country.\n\nSome architects complained that by making building plans available on a mass basis, Bok was usurping their prerogatives, and some, such as Stanford White openly discouraged him – although White later came around, writing I believe that Edward Bok has more completely influenced American domestic architecture for the better than any man in this generation. When he began ... I refused to cooperate with him. If Bok would come to me now, I would not only make plans for him, but I would waive my fee for them in retribution for my early mistake.\n\nBok is credited with coining the term \"living room\" as the name for room of a house that was commonly called a \"parlor\" or \"drawing room\". This room had traditionally been used only on Sundays or for formal occasions such as the displaying of deceased family members before burial; it was the buffer zone between the public sphere and the private one of the rest of the house. Bok believed it was foolish to create an expensively furnished room that was rarely used, and promoted the new name to encourage families to use the room in their daily lives. He wrote, \"We have what is called a 'drawing room'. Just whom or what it 'draws' I have never been able to see unless it draws attention to too much money and no taste...\" \n\nBok's overall concern was to preserve his socially conservative vision of the ideal American household, with the wife as homemaker and child-rearer, and the children raised in a healthy, natural setting, close to the soil. To this end, he promoted the suburbs as the best place for well-balanced domestic life.\n\nTheodore Roosevelt said about Bok:[He] is the only man I ever heard of who changed, for the better, the architecture of an entire nation, and he did it so quickly and effectively that we didn't know it was begun before it was finished.\n\nAt the \"Ladies Home Journal\", Bok authored more than twenty articles opposed to women's suffrage, women working outside the home, woman's clubs, and education for women. He solicited articles against women's rights from former presidents Theodore Roosevelt and Grover Cleveland. Bok viewed suffragettes as traitors to their sex, saying \"there is no greater enemy of woman than woman herself.\"\n\nThe \"Journal\"'s wide reach among American middle-class women made Bok a key ally of the anti-suffrage movement. Women's clubs attempted to organize a boycott of the \"Journal\", for which Bok threatened them with legal action.\n\nBok's 1920 autobiography \"The Americanization of Edward Bok: The Autobiography of a Dutch Boy Fifty Years Later\" won the Gold Medal of the Academy of Political and Social Science and the 1921 Pulitzer Prize for Biography or Autobiography.\n\nThe World War II Liberty ship was named in his honor.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2132540", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2132540", "title": "Wayne Siegel", "text": "Wayne Siegel\n\nWayne Siegel (b. Los Angeles, California, 14 February 1953) is an American composer living in Malling, Denmark.\n\nFrom 1971 to 1974 Siegel studied composition and philosophy at the University of California, Santa Barbara. After three years there he decided to complete his Bachelor of Arts degree in Århus, Denmark, where he studied with the noted Danish composer Per Nørgård. Remaining in Århus, in 1977 he received his degree in composition from the Royal Academy of Music in Århus.\n\nIn 1978 Siegel was awarded a three-year grant in composition from the Danish Art Council, working as a free-lance composer in the years that followed. After two years as administrative director of the West Jutland Symphony Orchestra and its affiliated chamber ensemble, the Esbjerg Ensemble, he was in 1986 appointed director of the newly founded national electronic music center, DIEM (The Danish Institute of Electroacoustic Music) in Århus. In 1994 he chaired the 19th International Computer Music Conference (ICMC) in Århus. From 1996 to 1998 he served as chairman of the two music committees of the Danish State Arts Foundation. In 2003 DIEM became part of the Royal Academy of Music in Aarhus, and Siegel was appointed professor of electronic music.\n\nSiegel's works show the influence of minimalism (particularly the pulse-based work of Steve Reich), as well as folk, blues, and rock music.\n\nHis works have been commissioned by the Kronos Quartet, Evelyn Glennie, Harry Sparnaay, Singcircle, and the Safri Duo.\n\n"}
{"id": "2132544", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2132544", "title": "Symphony No. 3 (Bruckner)", "text": "Symphony No. 3 (Bruckner)\n\nAnton Bruckner's Symphony No. 3 in D minor, WAB 103, was dedicated to Richard Wagner and is sometimes known as his \"Wagner Symphony\". It was written in 1873, revised in 1877 and again in 1889.\n\nThe work has been characterised as \"difficult\", and is regarded by some as Bruckner's artistic breakthrough. According to Rudolf Kloiber, the third symphony \"opens the sequence of Bruckner's masterpieces, in which his creativity meets monumental ability of symphonic construction.\" The work is notorious as the most-revised of Bruckner's symphonies, and there exist no fewer than six versions, with three of them being widely performed today.\n\nBruckner wrote the first version of the symphony in 1873. In September 1873, before the work was finished, Bruckner visited Richard Wagner, whom he had first met in 1865 at the premiere of \"Tristan und Isolde\" in Munich. Bruckner showed both his Second and Third symphonies to Wagner, asking him to pick one he preferred. To Bruckner's delight, Wagner chose the Third, and Bruckner dedicated the symphony to the master he highly respected. After arriving home, Bruckner continued to work on the symphony, finishing the finale on 31 December 1873.\n\nAccording to an anecdote, Bruckner and Wagner drank so much beer together that, upon arriving home, Bruckner realized he had forgotten which symphony Wagner had chosen. He wrote a letter back to Wagner saying \"Symphony in D minor, where the trumpet begins the theme?\" Wagner scribbled back \"Yes! Best wishes! Richard Wagner.\" After this, Wagner often referred to Bruckner as \"Bruckner the trumpet\" and the two became firm friends. In the dedication, Bruckner referred to Wagner as \"the unreachable world-famous noble master of poetry and music\".\n\nThe 1873 version was rehearsed by the Vienna Philharmonic in June or July 1874, but it was not accepted for performance. The premiere of the Symphony (1877 version) was given in Vienna on 16 December 1877. The conductor was meant to be Johann von Herbeck, though his death a month before the concert forced Bruckner himself to step in and conduct. The concert was a complete disaster: although a decent choral conductor, Bruckner was a barely competent orchestral director: the Viennese audience, which was not sympathetic to his work to begin with, gradually left the hall as the music played. Even the orchestra fled at the end, leaving Bruckner alone with a few supporters, including Gustav Mahler. (The score of the first three movements was later owned by Mahler; his widow Alma Mahler ensured she took it with her when fleeing the Nazi invasion of France in 1940 for the United States.)\n\nStunned by this debacle, Bruckner made several revisions of his work, leaving out significant amounts of music including most quotations from Wagner's \"Tristan und Isolde\" and \"Die Walküre\". The original 1873 score was not published until 1977.\n\nThe symphony has been described as \"heroic\" in nature. Bruckner's love for the grand and majestic is reflected especially in the first and last movements. Stark contrasts, cuts and forcefulness mark the signature of the entire composition. The signal-like trombone thema, heard at the beginning after the two crescendo waves, constitutes a motto for the whole symphony. Many typical elements of his later symphonies, such as the cyclical penetration of all movements and especially the apotheosis at the coda of the finale, which ends with the trombone thema, are heard in the Third for the first time.\n\nThe symphony has four movements:\n\nThe symphony opens with an ostinato on the strings, similarly to the unnumbered Symphony in D minor. Soon after, the trumpet sounds out the main theme:\n\\relative c\" {\n</score>\nThe music builds to a loud climax and the second theme of the first group is given by the full orchestra:\n\\relative c\" {\n</score>\nThe music goes back to the string ostinato and the first theme, this time in A major and builds to another loud climax with the second theme. After this first theme group, the second theme group is introduced with a quiet, descending passage played by the strings:\n\\relative c {\n</score>\nThe movement then enters the third theme group. This group alternates between loud and soft and combines two Bruckner hallmarks: octave falls and the Bruckner rhythm:\n\\relative c\" {\n</score>\nFollowing this the movement settles in to the development. During the development, the main theme is developed through inversion and is the subject of a massive climax near the center of the movement. The secondary group is also developed. In the original version, Bruckner quotes the \"\"qui tollis peccata mundi\"\" of the \"Agnus Dei\" from his Mass in D minor right before the recapitulation begins. The recapitulation goes through the theme groups (the first group only has one climax instead of the exposition's two). The movement ends in an unusual fashion: while there is no ambiguity as to the tonic (D), the final \"chord\" only contains an open fifth of D and A. Since there is no third, the ending is neither major nor minor:\n\\relative c' {\n</score>\n\nThe Adagio opens quietly and has a contrapuntal flair, with the strings playing in four parts:\n\\relative c\" {\n</score>\nThe second part of the movement shifts to time and features a melody played by the violas and accompanied by the violins:\n\\relative c\" {\n</score>\nDepending on the version, the second part may not be heard again, as the reprise was cut during the first revision. Near the end of the movement, there are (also depending on the version) one or two quotations from Wagner: one from Die Walküre and another from Tannhäuser that was cut in subsequent revisions.\n\nThe Scherzo begins quietly, quickly building up to a belligerent opening that consists mainly of the notes D and A:\n\\relative c\" {\n</score>\nThe dainty Trio that follows has the violas and violins in a dialogue:\n\\relative c\" {\n</score>\n\nThe Finale's main theme is a recall of the main theme of the first movement, by sharing the same rhythm, as shown below:\n\\relative c' {\n</score>\nThe second theme group is in a slower tempo and has a somewhat similar delicateness as the Trio of the third movement:\n\\relative c {\n</score>\nDuring this theme group there are quotations from \"Tristan und Isolde\" and the main motive of the Second Symphony that were cut after the first versions. After this group, the third theme group makes use of syncopated octaves, making it very rhythmic:\n\\relative c\" {\n</score>\nThe original version has a quotation of Rienzi near the end of the recapitulation. Additionally, the earlier versions feature a \"catalogue\" of themes from previous movements, similar to the Finale of Beethoven's Ninth Symphony, albeit near the end of the movement rather than the beginning. Eduard Hanslick, one of Bruckner's greatest critics, described the symphony as such: \"Bruckner's poetic intentions were not clear to us – perhaps a vision of Beethoven's Ninth becoming friendly with Wagner's Valkyries and finishing up being trampled under their hooves.\" The catalogue was removed in the final version. As the symphony draws to a close, the main theme of the first movement is recalled, and in the final version, is actually used to bring about the final D major cadence.\n\nThe symphony requires an instrumentation of one pair each of flutes, oboes, clarinets and bassoons, with four horns, three trumpets, three trombones, timpani and strings.\n\nAccording to widespread opinion, the Third can be regarded as Bruckner's artistic breakthrough. In it, the \"real and complete Bruckner\" comes into expression for the first time. According to Rudolf Kloiber, the third symphony \"opens the sequence of Bruckner's masterpieces, in which his creativity meets monumental ability of symphonic construction.\" However, the difficult work has never received general critical acceptance. Especially the question of the different versions and their judgement is still as open as ever.\n\nDespite being very critical of this Symphony, Robert Simpson quoted a passage from the first movement, rehearsal letter F, in his own Symphony No. 9. Simpson later modified his critical view (expressed in the 1966 edition of his \"The Essence of Bruckner\") after encountering the 1873 version, which he described in a programme note for the Royal Philharmonic Society in 1987 as \"a great work – not perfect by any means but possessing a majestic momentum the later revisions altogether destroyed\".\n\nSymphony No. 3 was a favorite of conductor Hans Knappertsbusch.\n\nThere exist no fewer than six versions, three of them being issued: the 1873 original version, the 1877–78 version, and the composer's last thoughts of 1889.\n\nThe 1873 version was the version that Bruckner sent to Wagner for his approval. It is available in an edition by Leopold Nowak (published 1977), which is based on Wagner's fair copy. It was first performed by Hans-Hubert Schönzeler at the Adelaide Festival of Arts in Australia in 1978.\n\nBruckner revised the symphony in 1874. \n\nAs described by Carragan in its presentation paper \"Bruckner's Trumpet\", the \"significant improved\" 1874 version is, movement for movement, of the same length and structure as the 1873 original version, but there are many passages, particularly in the first movement, with major changes in texture (canonic imitation) and orchestration. The 1874 version has been premiered and recorded by Gerd Schaller and the Philharmonie Festiva.\nThis symphony and the Fourth are the most-revised compositions in Bruckner’s canon … As one follows the increasing sophistication in the developing style of Bruckner’s canonic writing one obtains a window into the expert and intricate counterpoint of the great fugue of the Fifth Symphony.\n\nBruckner revised the Symphony again in 1876. \n\nThe revised Adagio has been edited by Nowak in 1980. In this version of the Adagio, the openings of parts 1 and 3 were broadened, and in part 5 the difficult accompaniment in syncopated semiquavers is replaced by that used by Wagner in the overture of Tannhäuser.\n\nThe complete 1876 version of the Symphony has been reconstructed by Carragan. \nIn this revision … the citations of themes from Wagner’s operas \"Tristan und Isolde\" and \"Die Walküre\" were removed from the first movement and finale... [I]n the first movement the opening trumpet theme was added as a two-part canon near the end of the exposition. [I]n the finale that same motto theme was also made into a brilliant four-part canon which was placed in the middle of the development. [It] is an interesting passage of 38 measures in which the chorale theme from the second or B theme group is played unexpectedly loudly accompanied by material from the A theme and the motto theme from the first movement. This is followed by a dialogue between the loud C theme and the quiet B theme chorale.\n\nAs Carragan writes, \"the reconstructed 1876 version of the Third Symphony... constitutes the earliest phase of the second version of that much-revised symphony\". \n\nThe complete 1876 version of the Symphony was premiered by Richard Pittman and the New England Philharmonic Orchestra on 2 March 2019 in Boston, Massachusetts.\n\nFrom the fall of 1877, Bruckner revised the symphony further: \n\nAccording to an advertisement in the \"Neue Freie Presse\" in Vienna, on 23 May 1880, the full score and parts of the 1877 version had just appeared in print by Thomas Rättig in Vienna. The 1877 version, which was first published without Scherzo coda by Oeser in 1950, was republished with the Scherzo coda of 1878 by Nowak in 1981. A transcription of this version for piano duet was prepared by Gustav Mahler (the last movement presumably by Rudolf Krzyzanowski), though only Mahler's name appears on the title page of the score, published on 1 January 1880 by A. Bösendorfer in Vienna.\n\nThe 1889 version was published by Nowak in 1959. In this version, the Scherzo coda is removed and additional cuts are done in the first movement and the Finale.\n\nThe first published version of 1890, published by Thomas Rättig (Vienna), remains controversial because it has not been ascertained how much it reflected Bruckner's wishes, and how much it was influenced by Josef and Franz Schalk.\n\nThe first commercial recording of part of this symphony was made by Anton Konrath with the Vienna Symphony Orchestra in 1928. It featured only the scherzo and trio.\n\nThe oldest complete performance preserved on disc is by Eugen Jochum with the Hamburg State Theatre Orchestra from 1944.\n\nThe first commercial recording of the complete symphony was made in 1953. The recording, from a live concert, was issued by the Allegro-Royale label with the conductor \"Gerd Rubahn\" (pseudonym for Hans Schmidt-Isserstedt). This historical recording has been remastered to CD (CD abruckner.com BSVD-0114).\n\nThe 1890 Rättig edition is generally used by the older conductors of the LP era, such as Hans Knappertsbusch conducting the Bavarian State Opera Orchestra and Carl Schuricht conducting the Vienna Philharmonic Orchestra.\n\nWith the dawn of the CD era, the 1877 and 1889 versions, as edited by Nowak, were more commonly used, by conductors such as Bernard Haitink and Karl Böhm.\n\nEliahu Inbal conducting the Frankfurt Radio Symphony Orchestra for Warner Classics was in 1983 the first to record the 1873 version. Georg Tintner conducting the Royal Scottish National Orchestra followed 15 years later on the Naxos label. As Tintner writes, \"this work as originally conceived suffered by its progressive mutilations more and more, and we should take the time to play and to listen to this amazing original.\"\n\nGerd Schaller first recorded the 1874 version, edited by William Carragan, with the Philharmonie Festiva.\n\nTo facilitate comparison of the different versions, Johannes Wildner conducting the New Philharmonic Orchestra of Westphalia, in a studio recording (SonArte/Naxos) offers multi-disc sets. Naxos includes both the 1877 and 1889 versions while SonArte includes all three of the 1873, 1877 and 1889 versions.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2132550", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2132550", "title": "Loften High School", "text": "Loften High School\n\nThe Professional Academies' Magnet @ Loften High School (or W. Travis Loften High School) is a public high school in Gainesville, Florida in the United States. It is part of Alachua County School District and occupies a campus in a medium-sized community.\n\nUnlike other high schools in the area, Loften is not a school where students are regularly zoned to attend and assigned. Loften remains a \"school of choice\" where students must actively seek the school out and apply as opposed to simply showing up due to location. While this ensures only students who really want to go actually attend, it also means that Loften has a very small student body. Because of this, Loften averages around 300 students in the daytime. These students are divided among 44 teachers in a 4-period block schedule.\n\nLoften was formerly home to the Alachua County Continuing Education for Pregnant Teens (ACCEPT). The program focused on pregnant teens and teen mothers, attempting to continue their education. Loften was the only high school in the area with an on-campus daycare for use by the students. The daycare was provided free of charge and cared for the children from the beginning to the end of a full school day.\n\nBeginning in the Fall of 2007, Loften became Alachua County's premier school for career and technical education. In total, it currently has five career-oriented programs including:\n\n\nDiscontinued Academies\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2132558", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2132558", "title": "Rely (brand)", "text": "Rely (brand)\n\nRely was a brand of superabsorbent tampons made by Procter & Gamble starting in 1975. The brand's advertising slogan was \"It even absorbs the worry!\", and claimed it could hold up longer than the leading tampon, because it was made differently. \"Remember, They named it Rely\" was the last line of most commercials.\n\nDue to consumer health issues and complaints, as well as mounting legal issues, Rely tampons were removed from the market in 1980.\n\nRely tampons were made with carboxymethylcellulose and compressed beads of polyester. After insertion into the vagina the tampon would take on a cup shape that would expand in both width and length, with the intent that the cup would hold menstrual fluids. This differed from other tampons of the era, which were often made with cotton and rayon and would expand in length but not width, which could result in leakage. A Rely tampon was reportedly able to absorb nearly twenty times its own weight in fluid.\n\nProcter & Gamble had just begun to expand their product lines into tampons while they were designing Rely tampons and wanted their product to stand out so that they could compete against more established competing products. They chose to eschew materials that were typically used in tampons in favor of using carboxymethylcellulose, a non-decomposing, edible chemical compound often used to thicken food products. The tampon's cup was composed of polyester and was designed to minimize the leakage of menstrual fluid, as it would adapt to the shape of the user's vagina.\n\nThe product was test marketed in Rochester and Fort Wayne during 1974. This predated 1976 changes in the Food & Drug Administration (FDA) and the Medical Device Amendments that would re-categorize menstrual products as medical devices that would now require rigorous testing and pre-approval by the FDA. As the testing occurred prior to 1976, Procter & Gamble was not required to submit their results to the FDA proving Rely's safety due to a grandfather clause.\n\nBeginning in 1975 samples of Rely were mailed to women throughout the United States to promote the product through a series of waves. Researcher and historian Sharra Vostral estimates that 45 million sample packs of four tampons were distributed during this campaign. The tampons were advertised as being highly absorbent and capable of absorbing nearly twenty times its own weight in fluid. It is estimated that about 26.3 million women made use of the samples.\n\nThe superabsorbent properties of Rely caused vaginal dryness by absorbing the natural humidity of the vagina. Often this led to ulcerations in the vaginal wall when the tampon was removed, offering pathways for bacteria to infect the bloodstream. Further, the tampons' superabsorbency meant that the viscosity of vaginal fluids was enhanced, providing an environment conducive to bacteria growth. One user reported to Vostral that the tampon had become so swollen after several hours of usage that she had \"[wondered] whether I had lost my virginity, that thing had gotten so huge\" and that she discontinued using the tampons after only one use.\n\nProcter & Gamble recalled Rely on September 22, 1980 after the Centers for Disease Control released a report that summer, explaining the bacterial mechanisms which lead to toxic shock syndrome, and that Rely tampons were associated with TSS more than any other tampon. As part of the voluntary recall, Procter & Gamble entered into a consent agreement with the FDA \"providing for a program for notification to consumers and retrieval of the product from the market\". It was revealed in a 1989 court that the company set up a reserve of $150 million before taxes and $75 million after taxes for 1981 to cover the costs of pulling the product off the market.\n\nIn March 1982, a Federal jury found that the Procter & Gamble Company was negligent and offered a defective product when it put Rely tampons on the market, but it did not award any damages to a Colorado teenager who sued the company. In April 1982, a Federal jury found Procter & Gamble Company liable for the death from toxic shock syndrome of a woman who used its Rely tampons, and ordered the company to pay her husband $300,000 in actual damages. In August 1982, the company settled a suit with an 18-year-old woman who asserted that she contracted toxic shock syndrome after using Rely, for an undisclosed amount.\n\n"}
{"id": "2132559", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2132559", "title": "Heeze", "text": "Heeze\n\nHeeze is a town in the Dutch province of North Brabant. It is located in the municipality of Heeze-Leende, about 9 km southeast of Eindhoven.\n\nHeeze was a separate municipality until 1997, when it merged with Leende.\n\nThe Heeze Castle is located east of the town. Further east and to the north lies the Strabrechtse Heide.\n\nThe 26 ha. country estate Kapellerput is housing magnificent deciduous and coniferous forests, fens and heath. The setting which is rich in forest and waterways borders the famous Strabrecht heath as well as the Aa river basin. A wonderful environment to discover on foot or on one bike. There is a conference hotel and a treehouse at the estate.\n\nRailway station: Heeze\n\n"}
{"id": "2132561", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2132561", "title": "Symphony No. 4 (Bruckner)", "text": "Symphony No. 4 (Bruckner)\n\nAnton Bruckner's Symphony No. 4 in E-flat major (WAB 104) is one of the composer's most popular works. It was written in 1874 and revised several times through 1888. It was dedicated to Prince Konstantin of Hohenlohe-Schillingsfürst. It was premiered in 1881 by Hans Richter in Vienna to great acclaim.\n\nThe symphony's nickname of \"Romantic\" was used by the composer himself. This was at the height of the Romantic movement in the arts as depicted, amongst others, in the operas \"Lohengrin\" and \"Siegfried\" of Richard Wagner.\n\nAccording to Albert Speer, the symphony was performed before the fall of Berlin, in a concert on 12 April 1945. Speer chose the symphony as a signal that the Nazis were about to lose the war.\n\nThe symphony has four movements. Bruckner revised the symphony multiple times and it exists in three major versions. The initial version of 1874 differs in several respects from the other two, most importantly the entirely separate scherzo movement:\n\nHere are the tempo markings in the 1878–1880 version:\n\nThe 1888 version edited by Benjamin Korstvedt in the \"Gesamtausgabe\" (Band IV Teil 3) has different tempo and metronome markings:\n\nThe movement opens, like many other Bruckner symphonies, with tremolo strings. A horn call opens the first theme group:\n\\new Staff \\relative bes' { \\set Staff.midiInstrument = #\"piano\" \\key es \\major \\clef treble \\time 2/2 \\set Score.tempoHideNote = ##t \\tempo 2 = 60\n\\new Staff \\relative es, { \\set Staff.midiInstrument = #\"piano\" \\key es \\major \\clef bass \\time 2/2\n</score>\nThis leads into the second theme of the first group, an insistent statement of the Bruckner rhythm:\n\\new Staff \\relative es\" { \\set Staff.midiInstrument = #\"piano\" \\key es \\major \\clef treble \\time 2/2 \\set Score.tempoHideNote = ##t \\tempo 2 = 60\n\\new Staff \\relative es { \\set Staff.midiInstrument = #\"piano\" \\key es \\major \\clef bass \\time 2/2\n</score>\nLike all Bruckner symphonies, the exposition contains three theme groups. The second group, called the \"Gesangsperiode\" by Bruckner, is in D major:\n</score>\nThe third theme group differs between versions; in the 1874 original it opens with a variation on the opening horn call:\n\\new Staff \\relative bes\" { \\set Staff.midiInstrument = #\"piano\" \\key bes \\major \\clef treble \\time 2/2 \\set Score.tempoHideNote = ##t \\tempo 2 = 60\n\\new Staff \\relative bes, { \\set Staff.midiInstrument = #\"piano\" \\key bes \\major \\clef bass \\time 2/2\n</score>\nIn the 1878 version and later it opens with a variation of the Bruckner rhythm theme from the first group:\n\\new Staff \\relative bes\" { \\set Staff.midiInstrument = #\"piano\" \\key bes \\major \\clef treble \\time 2/2 \\set Score.tempoHideNote = ##t \\tempo 2 = 60\n\\new Staff \\relative bes { \\set Staff.midiInstrument = #\"piano\" \\key bes \\major \\clef bass \\time 2/2\n</score>\nThe expansive development features a brass chorale based on the opening horn call:\n\\relative c' {\n</score>\nThere exists much evidence that Bruckner had a program in mind for the Fourth Symphony. In a letter to conductor Hermann Levi of 8 December 1884, Bruckner wrote: \"In the first movement after a full night's sleep the day is announced by the horn, 2nd movement song, 3rd movement hunting trio, musical entertainment of the hunters in the wood.\" There is a similar passage in a letter from the composer to Paul Heyse of 22 December 1890: \"In the first movement of the 'Romantic' Fourth Symphony the intention is to depict the horn that proclaims the day from the town hall! Then life goes on; in the \"Gesangsperiode\" [the second subject] the theme is the song of the great tit \"Zizipe\". 2nd movement: song, prayer, serenade. 3rd: hunt and in the Trio how a barrel-organ plays during the midday meal in the forest.\n\nIn addition to these clues that come directly from Bruckner, the musicologist Theodor Helm communicated a more detailed account reported via the composer's associate Bernhard Deubler: \"Mediaeval city—Daybreak—Morning calls sound from the city towers—the gates open—On proud horses the knights burst out into the open, the magic of nature envelops them—forest murmurs—bird song—and so the Romantic picture develops further...\"\n\nThis movement, in C minor, begins with a melody on the cellos:\n\\new Staff \\relative g { \\set Staff.midiInstrument = #\"string ensemble 1\" \\key c \\minor \\clef bass \\time 4/4 \\set Score.tempoHideNote = ##t \\tempo 4 = 60\n</score>\nThe accompaniment is significantly different in the original 1874 version. This movement, like most Bruckner slow movements, is in five-part ternary form (A–B–A–B–A–Coda). The second part (B) is slower than the first:\n\\new Staff \\relative b' { \\set Staff.midiInstrument = #\"pizzicato strings\" \\key c \\minor \\clef treble \\time 4/4 \\set Score.tempoHideNote = ##t \\tempo 4 = 50\n\\new Staff \\relative g' { \\set Staff.midiInstrument = #\"string ensemble 1\" \\key c \\minor \\clef treble \\time 4/4\n</score>\n\nBruckner completely recomposed the Scherzo movement after his first version.\n\nThis Scherzo is based mostly on a horn call that opens the movement:\n\\new Staff \\relative f' { \\set Staff.midiInstrument = #\"french horn\" \\key es \\major \\clef treble \\time 3/4 \\set Score.tempoHideNote = ##t \\tempo \"Sehr schnell\" 4 = 195\n</score>\nThis is followed by tremolo string figures and a slightly different version of the horn call. Eventually a climax is reached with the horn call sounded loudly and backed by the full orchestra, leading to the Trio:\n\\new Staff \\relative c\" { \\set Staff.midiInstrument = #\"piano\" \\key as \\major \\clef treble \\time 3/4 \\set Score.tempoHideNote = ##t \\tempo \"Im gleichen tempo\" 4 = 190\n\\new Staff \\relative es' { \\set Staff.midiInstrument = #\"piano\" \\key as \\major \\clef treble \\time 3/4\n</score>\n\nThe autograph of the Scherzo of the 1878 version of the symphony contains markings such as \"Jagdthema\" (hunting theme) and \"Tanzweise während der Mahlzeit auf der Jagd\" (dance tune during the lunch break while hunting). This is the more well known of the Scherzi. It opens with triadic hunting horn calls:\n\\new Staff \\relative bes { \\set Staff.midiInstrument = #\"piano\" \\key bes \\major \\clef treble \\time 2/4 \\set Score.tempoHideNote = ##t \\tempo 4 = 126\n\\new Staff \\relative bes { \\set Staff.midiInstrument = #\"piano\" \\key bes \\major \\clef treble \\time 2/4\n</score>\nThe more melodic Trio follows:\n\\new Staff \\relative des' { \\set Staff.midiInstrument = #\"piano\" \\key ges \\major \\clef treble \\time 3/4 \\set Score.tempoHideNote = ##t \\tempo 4 = 90\n\\new Staff \\relative des' { \\set Staff.midiInstrument = #\"piano\" \\key ges \\major \\clef treble \\time 3/4\n</score>\n\nThis movement went through three major versions, but the third version of the Finale corresponds with the second major version of the symphony as a whole. There were further revisions for the 1888 version, but these amount to cuts and reorchestration; the underlying thematic material does not change after 1880. Much of the thematic material is shared between different versions, albeit with rhythmic simplification after 1874. The stark main theme, in E minor, is the same in all three versions:\n\\new Staff \\relative es\" { \\set Staff.midiInstrument = #\"piano\" \\key es \\minor \\clef treble \\time 2/2 \\set Score.tempoHideNote = ##t \\tempo 2 = 50\n</score>\n\nThis version begins with cascading string figures and a reappearance of the horn call that opened the symphony, albeit first appearing on the oboe. This builds to a climax and the main theme is stated by the full orchestra. Pizzicato strings introduce the second theme group, built on two themes. This group is very polyrhythmic, with heavy usage of quintuplets. The first theme:\n\\new Staff \\relative e { \\set Staff.midiInstrument = #\"piano\" \\key c \\major \\clef treble \\time 2/2 \\set Score.tempoHideNote = ##t \\tempo 2 = 43\n\\new Staff \\relative g' { \\set Staff.midiInstrument = #\"piano\" \\key c \\major \\clef treble \\time 2/2\n</score>\nThis group has several bars of five notes against eight, beginning in the second theme:\n\\new Staff \\relative e\" { \\set Staff.midiInstrument = #\"piano\" \\key c \\major \\clef treble \\time 2/2 \\set Score.tempoHideNote = ##t \\tempo 2 = 43\n\\new Staff \\relative b' { \\set Staff.midiInstrument = #\"piano\" \\key c \\major \\clef treble \\time 2/2\n</score>\nThe third theme group is started by a descending B minor scale, given by the whole orchestra:\n\\new Staff \\relative bes\" { \\set Staff.midiInstrument = #\"piano\" \\key bes \\minor \\clef treble \\time 2/2 \\set Score.tempoHideNote = ##t \\tempo 2 = 70\n</score>\nTowards the end, the horn call that opened the symphony returns, heralding the bright E major finish to the symphony.\n\nThe second version of the movement is generally not played as part of the symphony as a whole. The nickname, meaning 'people's festival', comes from Bruckner's autograph. The movement's opening and first theme group are generally the same as the first version. The second group shows substantial differences in rhythm, with the difficult quintuplets replaced by simpler rhythmic patterns (Bruckner rhythm \"2 + 3\" or \"3 + 2\"). The actual notes, leaving aside transpositions and differences in accompaniment and articulation, are unchanged. The first theme:\n\\new Staff \\relative e { \\set Staff.midiInstrument = #\"piano\" \\key c \\major \\clef treble \\time 2/2 \\set Score.tempoHideNote = ##t \\tempo 2 = 43\n\\new Staff \\relative g { \\set Staff.midiInstrument = #\"piano\" \\key c \\major \\clef treble \\time 2/2\n</score>\nThe second theme:\n\\new Staff \\relative e\" { \\set Staff.midiInstrument = #\"piano\" \\key c \\major \\clef treble \\time 2/2 \\set Score.tempoHideNote = ##t \\tempo 2 = 43\n\\new Staff \\relative b { \\set Staff.midiInstrument = #\"piano\" \\key c \\major \\clef treble \\time 2/2\n</score>\nThe third theme group is again headed off by a descending scale, with the rhythm simplified:\n\\new Staff \\relative bes\" { \\set Staff.midiInstrument = #\"piano\" \\key bes \\minor \\clef treble \\time 2/2 \\set Score.tempoHideNote = ##t \\tempo 2 = 65\n</score>\nSignificant changes are made to the coda, bringing it closer to the final version.\n\nThis version has the most substantial changes. The cascading string figures are changed, and the overall mood is much more somber than in previous versions. After the first theme group comes the modified second group. Here Bruckner has inserted a new theme that precedes the two themes previously seen in the Volksfest version:\n</score>\nAdditionally, the third theme group has been recomposed:\n\\new Staff \\relative bes' { \\set Staff.midiInstrument = #\"piano\" \\key bes \\minor \\clef treble \\time 2/2 \\set Score.tempoHideNote = ##t \\tempo 2 = 50\n</score>\nIn the coda, a quiet chorale is introduced at bar 489, and, before the peroration (at bar 517), an ascending scale – a quote of that before the third climax in part 5 of the Adagio of the Fifth Symphony.\n\nIn the 1888 version, the recapitulation begins with the \"second\" theme group, skipping over the first entirely. There does not seem to be any clear hint of a program for this third version of the finale.\n\nSince the 1930s Bruckner scholars have generally recognised three principal versions of the Fourth Symphony, but two of these exist in more than one form:\n\n\nAt least seven authentic versions and revisions of the Fourth Symphony have been identified.\n\nBruckner's original version, published in an edition by Leopold Nowak in 1975, was composed between 2 January and 22 November 1874. The Nowak edition includes revisions from 1876 that Bruckner made in the autograph score. This version was never performed or published during the composer's lifetime, though the Scherzo was played in Linz on 12 December 1909. The first complete performance was given in Linz more than a century after its composition on 20 September 1975 by the Munich Philharmonic Orchestra conducted by Kurt Wöss. The first commercial recording of the 1874 version was made in September 1982 by the Frankfurt Radio Symphony Orchestra conducted by Eliahu Inbal (CD 2564 61371-2).\n\nWhen he had completed the original version of the symphony, Bruckner turned to the composition of his Fifth Symphony. When he had completed that piece he resumed work on the Fourth, though it is possible that he made some revisions to the latter in 1876 or 1877. Between 18 January and 30 September 1878 he thoroughly revised the first two movements and replaced the original finale with a new movement entitled \"Volksfest\" (\"Popular Festival\"). This \"Volksfest\" finale was published as an appendix to Robert Haas's edition of 1936 and in a separate edition by Leopold Nowak in 1981.\n\nIn December 1878 Bruckner replaced the original Scherzo with a completely new movement, which is sometimes called the \"Hunt\" Scherzo (\"Jagd-Scherzo\"). In a letter to the music critic Wilhelm Tappert (October 1878), Bruckner said that the new Scherzo \"represents the hunt, whereas the Trio is a dance melody which is played to the hunters during their repast\". The original title of the Trio reads: \"Tanzweise während der Mahlzeit auf der Jagd\" (\"Dance melody during the hunters' meal\").\n\nAfter the lapse of almost a year (during which he composed his String Quintet in F Major), Bruckner took up his Fourth Symphony once again. Between 19 November 1879 and 5 June 1880 he composed a new finale – the third, though it shares much of its thematic material with the first version – and discarded the \"Volksfest\" finale. Thus the 1880 version is the same as the 1878 version but with a new finale. This was the version performed at the work's premiere on 20 February 1881, which was the first premiere of a Bruckner symphony not to be conducted by Bruckner himself. This version is sometimes referred to as the 1878/80 version.\n\nThe 1881 version is the same as the 1880 version, but includes some changes made after the first performance of the latter – numerous changes in orchestration, a replacement of a 4-bar passage with a 12-bar passage in the Finale, and a 20-bar cut in the Andante. It is available in an edition by Robert Haas, which was published in 1936, based on Bruckner's manuscript in the Austrian National Library.\n\nThe 1886 version is the same as the 1881 version but includes a number of changes - notably in the last few bars of the Finale, in which the third and fourth horns play the main theme of the first movement - made by Bruckner while preparing a score of the symphony for Anton Seidl, who took it with him to New York City. This version was published in an edition by Nowak in 1953, based on the original copyist's score, which was rediscovered in 1952 and is now in the collection of Columbia University. In the title of Nowak's publication, it was confusingly described as the \"1878-1880 version\". It was performed in New York by Seidl on 4 April 1888.\n\nWith the assistance of Ferdinand Löwe and probably also Franz and Joseph Schalk, Bruckner thoroughly revised the symphony in 1887–88 with a view to having it published. Although Löwe and the Schalks made some changes to the score, these are now thought to have been authorized by Bruckner. This version was first performed, to acclaim, by the Vienna Philharmonic Orchestra under the baton of Hans Richter in Vienna on 20 January 1888.\n\nThe only surviving manuscript which records the compositional process of this version is the \"Stichvorlage\", or engraver's copy of the score, which was prepared for the symphony's publisher Alfred J. Gutmann of Vienna. The \"Stichvorlage\" was written down by three main copyists whose identities are unknown — but it is possible they were none other than Löwe and the two Schalks. One copyist copied out the 1st and 4th movements; the others each copied out one of the inner movements. Some tempi and expression marks were added in a fourth hand; these may have been inserted by Hans Richter during rehearsals, or even by Bruckner, who is known to have taken an interest in such matters. The \"Stichvorlage\" is now in an inaccessible private collection in Vienna; there is, however, a set of black-and-white photographs of the entire manuscript in the Wiener Stadtbibliothek (A-Wst M.H. 9098/c).\n\nIn February 1888, Bruckner made extensive revisions to all four movements after having heard the premiere of the 1887 version the previous month. These changes were entered in Bruckner's own hand into the \"Stichvorlage\", which he then dated. The \"Stichvorlage\" was sent to the Viennese firm of Albert J. Gutmann sometime between 15 May and 20 June 1888. In September 1889 the score was published by Gutmann. This was the first edition of the symphony to be published in the composer's lifetime. In 1890 Gutmann issued a corrected text of this edition, which rectified a number of misprints.\n\nThe 1888 version is sometimes referred to by Bruckner scholars as the \"revised version\".\n\nIn 1895 Gustav Mahler made an arrangement of the 1888 version which is heavily cut and reorchestrated. It is available in recordings by Gennadi Rozhdestvensky and Anton Nanut.\n\nThe following table summarises the details of the different versions.\n\nAny critical appraisal of Bruckner's Fourth Symphony must take into account the so-called Bruckner Problem – that is, the controversy surrounding the degrees of authenticity and authorial status of the different versions of his symphonies. Between 1890 and 1935 there was no such controversy as far as the Fourth was concerned: Gutmann's print of the symphony, the 1888 version, was unchallenged. British musicologist Donald Francis Tovey's analysis of the symphony mentioned no other version, nor does the Swiss theorist Ernst Kurth. Gutmann's version was the one performed by the leading conductors of the day: Mahler, Weingartner, Richter and Fischer.\n\nIn 1936, Robert Haas, editor of the \"Gesamtausgabe\" (the critical edition of all of Bruckner's works), dismissed the version printed in 1889 as being without authenticity, saying that \"the circumstances that accompanied its publication can no longer be verified\" and calling it \"a murky source for the specialist\". In Haas's opinion the 1880 version was the \"Fassung letzter Hand\" (that is, the last version of the symphony to be transmitted in a manuscript in Bruckner's own hand). It later transpired that this assertion is not entirely true, but when Haas denied authorial status to the 1889 version he was unaware that the \"Stichvorlage\" from which that print was taken has extensive revisions in Bruckner's own hand, which Bruckner made in February 1888 after the premiere of the 1887 version of the symphony. To account for the fact that Bruckner had allowed the 1888 version to be printed, Haas created the now-popular image of Bruckner as a composer with so little confidence in his own orchestral technique that he was easily persuaded to accept the revisions of others like Löwe and the Schalks.\n\nHaas's 1936 edition contained the entire symphony based on Bruckner's 1881 autograph and included the \"Volksfest\" finale in an appendix: he described this edition as the \"original version\" (\"Originalfassung\"). He planned a second volume containing the earlier 1874 version of the symphony, but this was never completed.\n\nIn 1940 Alfred Orel announced the rediscovery of the \"Stichvorlage\" from which the 1888 version had been printed. He noted that Bruckner had emended it himself and in 1948 declared it the true \"Fassung letzter Hand\". Even Haas appears to have had second thoughts on the matter when he learned of the existence of the \"Stichvorlage\". In 1944 he announced his intention to restore the 1888 version to the Bruckner \"Gesamtausgabe\"; but events overtook him.\n\nWith the Anschluss of Austria to Hitler’s Germany in 1938, the Musikwissenschaftlichen Verlag Wien (MWV) and the Internationalen Bruckner-Gesellschaft (IBG) in Vienna had been dissolved, and all efforts had been transferred to Leipzig. In 1945, late into a bomb attack on Leipzig, the publishing stock was destroyed. After the war, the IBG, the MWV, and Bruckner’s documented output returned to Austria. In 1951 Leopold Nowak presented the first volume of the \"Neue Bruckner-Gesamtausgabe\" with a corrected reprint of Alfred Orel’s edition of the Ninth Symphony. Nowak had already served in score-editing capacities before 1945, had worked on discovering new sources, and had corrected errors.\n\nAbout the Fourth Symphony, Nowak was not immediately convinced that the 1888 version was authentic. He rejected the evidence of the \"Stichvorlage\" on the grounds that Bruckner had not signed it. He also repeated, and revised, arguments Haas had invoked to cast doubt on Bruckner’s involvement in the preparation of the 1887 version.\n\nThroughout the second half of the twentieth century most commentators accepted Haas's and Nowak's arguments without taking the trouble to investigate the matter any further. The rediscovery of the copyist's score of the 1886 version was the only significant change to the \"Gesamtausgabe\" during Nowak's long editorship (1951–1989). Nowak issued critical editions of the original 1874 version (1975), the 1886 version (1953) and the \"Volksfest\" finale of the 1878 version (1981), as well as a new edition of the 1881 version (1981). Gutmann's print of the 1888 version, however, remained beyond the pale as far as Nowak was concerned.\n\nCritical appreciation of the symphony took an interesting turn in 1954, when Eulenburg issued a new edition of the 1888 version by the German-born British musicologist Hans F. Redlich. According to Redlich, the publication of the revised version in 1889 did not mark the end of the Fourth Symphony's long process of composition and revision, as most commentators had assumed, for on 18 January 1890 Bruckner supposedly began to indite yet another version of the symphony:\n\n\"The strangest feature in this tangle of conflicting evidence is the fact that the so called \"Endfassung\" (final version) of the symphony which – according to R. Haas – combined versions II and III [i.e. essentially the same as the 1880 version] and is embodied in HS 19476 of the Nat. Bibl. Vienna Austrian National Library, seems to have been put on paper \"after\" the issue of the \"revised version\" (i.e [the published 1888 version]). This emerges clearly from the Facsimile of its first page [published as Plate IV in R. Haas, \"Anton Bruckner\" (Potsdam, 1934), p. 128], which bears the date of its commencement: Vienna January 18, 1890. It is possible to see in this MS score as well as in its date a silent protest of Bruckner's against the published score of 1889.\"\n\nRedlich buttressed this argument by questioning the authenticity of a number of emendations to the score which he considered alien to Bruckner's native style. Among these, the following may be noted: the introduction of piccolo and cymbals in bar 76 of the finale; the use of cymbals in bar 473 of the finale; and the use of muted horns in bar 147 of the finale, the \"aperto\" command for which is omitted in bar 155.\n\nIn 1969 Deryck Cooke repeated these arguments in his influential series of articles \"The Bruckner Problem Simplified\", going so far as to claim that Bruckner \"withheld his ultimate sanction by refusing to sign the copy sent to the printer\". Cooke, who referred to the 1888 version as the \"completely spurious… Löwe/Schalk score\", concluded that the existence of the alleged manuscript of 1890 to which Redlich had first drawn attention effectively annulled all revisions made after 1881.\n\nIn 1996, however, critical opinion of the Fourth Symphony was turned on its head by the American musicologist Benjamin Korstvedt, who demonstrated that the manuscript referred to by Redlich and Cooke does not in fact exist: \"Were it true that Bruckner made such a copy, Cooke's claim would merit consideration. But Bruckner never did. Redlich and Cooke were misled by a photograph in Haas's biography of Bruckner. This photograph, which shows the first page of Bruckner's autograph score of the second version, is cropped in such a way that the date \"18. Jänner 1878\" – which is mentioned by Haas – seems to read \"18 Jänner 1890\"\"\n\nKorstvedt has also refuted Haas's oft-repeated argument that Bruckner was a diffident composer who lacked faith in his own ability and was willing to make concessions that contravened his own artistic judgement. No evidence has been adduced in support of this assessment of the composer. On the contrary, there are first-hand accounts from Bruckner's own associates that it was impossible to persuade him to accept emendations against his own better judgement. It is Korstvedt's contention that while the preparation of the 1888 version was indeed a collaborative effort between Bruckner, Löwe, and probably also Franz and Joseph Schalk, this in no way undermines its authorial status; it still represents Bruckner's final thoughts on his Fourth Symphony and should be regarded as the true \"Endfassung\" or \"Fassung letzter Hand\". There is no evidence that Bruckner \"refused\" to sign the \"Stichvorlage\". He may have omitted to do so, but this is also true of other Bruckner manuscripts whose authenticity is not doubted. Furthermore, there is no real evidence that Bruckner was forced to accept revisions in order to get the work published, as Haas claimed. The only condition that Gutmann made prior to publication was that he be paid 1,000 fl. in advance to cover his costs. Once this money was delivered to him, he would have been quite happy, presumably, to print whatever version of the symphony Bruckner sent him.\n\nIn 2004 Korstvedt issued the first modern edition of the 1888 version of the symphony for the \"Gesamtausgabe\".\n\nThe following table summarizes the Fourth Symphony's complicated history of composition (or \"Wirkungsgeschichte\", to use the critical term preferred by Bruckner scholars). The principal sources for these data are Korstvedt (1996) and Redlich (1954). (B = Bruckner; FS = Fourth Symphony; mvt = movement.)\n\nThe symphony requires an instrumentation of one pair each of flutes, oboes, clarinets, bassoons, with four horns, three trumpets, three trombones, timpani and strings. From the 1878 revision onwards, a single bass tuba is also incorporated into the instrumentation. The published score of 1889 introduces a part for third flute (doubling on the piccolo) and a pair of cymbals.\n\nThe first commercial recording of part of the symphony was of the scherzo from the 1888 version, made by Clemens Krauss with the Vienna Philharmonic in 1929. The first commercial recording of the entire symphony was made by Karl Böhm with the Dresden Staatskapelle in 1936, in the Haas/1881 version.\n\nThe versions most often recorded are the Haas and Nowak editions of the 1880 score (referred to as the 1881 and 1886 versions in the list above). Any modern recording that does not specify this can be safely assumed to be one of these versions, while early LPs and CD remasterings of old recordings are usually of Ferdinand Löwe's 1888 edition (for example, those by Wilhelm Furtwängler and Hans Knappertsbusch).\n\nThe first recording of the original 1874 version was by Kurt Wöss with the Munich Philharmonic was – a live performance of 1975. The first studio recording of the 1874 version was by Eliahu Inbal with the Frankfurt Radio Symphony Orchestra.\n\nThe 1878 version has never been recorded as a whole, although the \"Volksfest\" finale has been recorded individually, for example by Georg Tintner.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2132567", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2132567", "title": "Giovanni Sollima", "text": "Giovanni Sollima\n\nGiovanni Sollima (born 24 October 1962 in Palermo, Sicily, Italy) is an Italian composer and cellist. He was born into a family of musicians and studied cello with Giovanni Perriera and composition with his father, Eliodoro Sollima, at the Conservatorio di Palermo, where he graduated with highest honors. He later studied with Antonio Janigro and Milko Kelemen at the Musikhochschule Stuttgart and at the Universität Mozarteum Salzburg.\n\nAs a composer, Sollima's influences are wide ranging, taking in jazz and rock, as well as various ethnic traditions from the Mediterranean area. Sollima's music is influenced by minimalism, with his compositions often featuring modal melodies and repetitive structures. Because his works are characterized by a more diverse and eclectic approach to material than the early American minimalist composers, the American critic Kyle Gann has called Sollima a postminimalist composer.\n\nSollima has collaborated with the American poet and musician Patti Smith, appearing on her records and performing with her in concert. He also collaborates with the Silk Road Project.\n\n\n\n\n\nThe link posted that purports to be for Giovanni Sollima's (music) website is not for his website. Instead it will take you to the website of a health/cosmetics practitioner also called Giovanni Sollima.\n\n"}
{"id": "2132569", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2132569", "title": "Kolo", "text": "Kolo\n\nKolo may refer to:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2132579", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2132579", "title": "Zoltán Jeney", "text": "Zoltán Jeney\n\nZoltán Jeney (4 March 1943 – 28 October 2019) was a Hungarian composer.\n\nJeney was born in Szolnok Hungary. He first studied piano and attended Pongrácz's composition classes at the Debrecen Secondary Music School, later continuing composition studies with Ferenc Farkas at the Liszt Ferenc Academy of Music in Budapest (1961–66), and pursuing postgraduate studies with Goffredo Petrassi at the Accademia Nazionale di Santa Cecilia in Rome (1967–68).\n\nJeney's earliest compositions exhibit the influences of Béla Bartók, Luigi Dallapiccola, Anton Webern, Alban Berg, the new Polish school, György Kurtág, and Zsolt Durkó. In the late 1960s, he began to take an interest in Pierre Boulez's theories, Karlheinz Stockhausen's compositions, and oriental philosophy—a direction intensified as a result of his contact with John Cage's philosophy. In the 1970s Jeney began composing music in the minimal style, and his works are often characterized by an extremely spare and static quality.\n\nFrom 1986 on Jeney was a professor at the Liszt Ferenc Academy of Music in Budapest, Hungary where, since 1995, he served as Head of the Department of Composition. Several of his compositions have been released on the Hungaroton label.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2132585", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2132585", "title": "Vierlingsbeek", "text": "Vierlingsbeek\n\nVierlingsbeek () is a village in the municipality of Boxmeer in North Brabant province of the Netherlands. Until it was included in Boxmeer in 1998, it also was a municipality of its own.\n\nThe UN/LOCODE is NLVIE.\n\n"}
{"id": "2132591", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2132591", "title": "Pierre; or, The Ambiguities", "text": "Pierre; or, The Ambiguities\n\nPierre; or, The Ambiguities is the seventh book by American writer Herman Melville, first published in New York in 1852. The novel, which uses many conventions of Gothic fiction, develops the psychological, sexual, and family tensions between Pierre Glendinning; his widowed mother; Glendinning Stanley, his cousin; Lucy Tartan, his fiancée; and Isabel Banford, who is revealed to be his half-sister. According to scholar Henry A. Murray, in writing \"Pierre\" Melville \"purposed to write his spiritual autobiography in the form of a novel\" rather than to experiment and incidentally work some personal experience into the novel.\n\nPublished after the lukewarm reaction to \"Moby-Dick\", \"Pierre\" was a critical and financial disaster. Reviewers universally condemned its morals and its style. More recent critics have shown greater sympathy toward the book, seeing it as a \"psychological novel – a study of the moods, thought processes, and perceptions of his hero\".\n\nPierre Glendinning Jr. is the 19-year-old heir to the manor at Saddle Meadows in upstate New York. Pierre is engaged to the blonde Lucy Tartan in a match approved by his domineering mother, who controls the estate since the death of his father, Pierre Sr. When he encounters the dark and mysterious Isabel Banford, he hears from her the claim that she is his half-sister, the illegitimate and orphaned child of his father and a European refugee. Pierre reacts to the story and to his magnetic attraction to Isabel by devising a remarkable scheme to preserve his father's name, spare his mother's grief, and give Isabel her proper share of the estate.\n\nHe announces to his mother that he is married; she promptly throws him out of the house. He and Isabel then depart for New York City, accompanied by a disgraced young woman, Delly Ulver. During their stagecoach journey, Pierre finds and reads a fragment of a treatise on \"Chronometricals and Horologicals\" on the differences between absolute and relative virtue by one Plotinus Plinlimmon. In the city, Pierre counts on the hospitality of his friend and cousin Glendinning Stanley, but is surprised when Glen refuses to recognize him. The trio (Pierre, Isabel, and Delly) find rooms in a former church converted to apartments, the Church of the Apostles, now populated by impecunious artists, writers, spiritualists, and philosophers, including the mysterious Plinlimmon. Pierre attempts to earn money by writing a book, encouraged by his juvenile successes as a writer.\n\nHe learns that his mother has died and has left the Saddle Meadows estate to Glen Stanley, who is now engaged to marry Lucy Tartan. Suddenly, however, Lucy shows up at the Apostles, determined to share Pierre's life and lot, despite his apparent marriage to Isabel. Pierre and the three women live there together as best they can, while their scant money runs out. Pierre's writing does not go well — having been \"Timonized\" by his experiences, the darker truths he has come to recognize cannot be reconciled with the light and innocent literature the market seeks. Unable to write, he has a vision in a trance of an earth-bound stone giant Enceladus and his assault on the heavenly Mount of Titans. Beset by debts, by fears of the threats of Glen Stanley and Lucy's brother, by the rejection of his book by its contracted publishers, by fears of his own incestuous passion for Isabel, and finally by doubts of the truth of Isabel's story, Pierre guns down Glen Stanley at rush hour on Broadway, and is taken to jail in The Tombs. Isabel and Lucy visit him, and Lucy dies of shock when Isabel addresses Pierre as her brother. Pierre then seizes upon the secret poison vial that Isabel carries and drinks it, and Isabel finishes the remainder, leaving three corpses as the novel ends.\n\nBefore writing \"Pierre\", Melville read the \"Confessions\" by Jean-Jacques Rousseau, \"Autobiographic Sketches\" and \"Confessions of an English Opium-Eater\" by Thomas De Quincey, and \"Sartor Resartus\" by Thomas Carlyle. Henry A. Murray writes that Benjamin Disraeli's autobiographical novels provided him with \"more raw material for \"Pierre\" than any other author\" with the exception of Lord Byron. Merton M. Sealts, Jr. agrees with Murray that Melville's own fascination in his youth with Byron is reflected in the character of Pierre himself in the early chapters of the novel. \"The book which was most potent in fashioning Melville's ideal and thus indirectly affecting his personality and his writings\", Murray suggests, was Thomas Moore's \"Life of Byron\". Second to Byron only, \"though ahead of him as a source for the first two acts of \"Pierre\"\", Disraeli—himself a Byronist—was another major influence of Melville's early ideal self-conception, and hence Pierre's personality. Still other yet less consequential \"architects of Melville's early ideal self and so of the character of Pierre of act 1\" are Walter Scott, Edmund Spenser, Thomas Moore, James Fenimore Cooper, and Edward Bulwer-Lytton. Melville developed the characterization of Pierre further with William Makepeace Thackeray's \"Pendennis\" and William Shakespeare's \"Romeo and Juliet\", though the spirit of Shakespeare's play pervades only the early chapters, later giving way to Hamlet's spirit. As stated in Book IX of \"Pierre\", \"Dante had made him fierce, and Hamlet had insinuated that there was no one to strike\".\n\nThe characteristics of the style, described by Murray as a \"miscellany of grammatical eccentricities, convoluted sentences, neologisms, and verbal fetishisms\", are by themselves enough to set \"Pierre\" off as \"a curiosity of literature.\" The chapter arrangement, by contrast, with each chapter called \"Book\" and sub-divided into short numbered sections, seems to aim for a clear structure that for critic Warner Berthoff helps \"to salvage some degree of organization and pace from the chaos of Melville's purposes.\"\n\nAccording to scholar Nathalia Wright, the style of Psalms is imitated in the passage where Pierre and Lucy one morning ride into the country, which is described in the manner of \"a prose paean which has many of the characteristics of a Hebrew poem\":\n\nThe vocabulary and rhythm of this passage, Wright argues, \"unmistakably echo the Psalms.\" The Psalmist employs the words \"praised be,\" \"thereof,\" and \"Hosannahs.\" Melville also follows the general principle of form, with a refrain to introduce each paragraph, with alternation between the outbursts of exultation and the description of matter providing the grounds for the exultation. In the first half of each paragraph is a stanzaic pattern: in the first a distich and a tristich, in the second a distich and a tetrastich. The pattern becomes clear if the passages are printed as poetry:\n\nUnbeknownst to the King James Version translators, parallelism is the fundamental characteristic of all Semitic poetry, with the distych or two-line parallel as the norm, and variations of tristich and tetrastich. Numerous examples from Psalms may be used for comparison, Wright chooses the following, printed to reveal the extent of the parallelism:\n\nIn a letter from February 1852, now lost, Melville proposed to Richard Bentley, the publisher of his previous five books in Britain, to publish \"Pierre\", then still unfinished. On March 4, Bentley replied and offered to publish the new work without an advance sum, citing the poor sales of Melville's previous books as the reason for his proposal. On April 16, Melville sent the proofs of \"Pierre\", together with a reply letter rejecting Bentley's offer. Melville's counteroffer for the book was £100, and he added that the finished book was 150 pages longer than he had anticipated when he first wrote about it. Having written the book with a feminine audience in mind, he further thought that \"it might not prove unadvisable to publish this present book anonymously, or under an assumed name:--' \"By a Vermonter\" ' say\", or, he wrote in a footnote, \"\"By Guy Winthrop\"\". He wrote further that his new book:\n\nWhen it was published in July 1852, it bore the author's real name and was immediately met with negative critical response. One review which ran in the \"New York Day Book\" bore the title \"Herman Melville Crazy\" while the \"\" wrote that Melville's \"fancy is diseased\".\n\nBrian Higgins and Hershel Parker characterize the novel as \"an ambitious experiment in psychological fiction\" whose primary focus is the \"complex workings of the human psyche,\" especially the \"tortuous processes of distortion and self-deception involved in fervid states of mind combining religious exaltation and sexual arousal.\" They comment that the novel also draws on the conventions of Gothic fiction. Andrew Delbanco added that \"Pierre\" long suffered from being in the shadow of \"Moby-Dick\", but that \"with its themes of sexual confusion and transgression\" it now seems \"fresh and urgent.\"\n\nDelbanco argues that Melville anticipates Sigmund Freud’s assertion that the sexual behavior of each human being transgresses \"the standard of normality\" to some extent. The novel, Delbanco feels, is ambivalent in dealing with the \"rather too loving\" supervision of his mother and his \"ardent sentiment\" for Glen, the young man who is his cousin, with whom he explored \"the preliminary love-friendship of boys.\" Yet, continues Delbanco, it is hard to know whether critics who now see Melville as a homosexual are simply making a long overdue acknowledgment, whether gay readers are projecting their own feelings onto Melville, or both. The novel is subtitled \"The Ambiguities.\" Delbanco concludes that \"the quest for a private Melville has usually led to a dead end, and we are not likely to fare better by speculating about his tastes in bed or bunk.\"\n\nReaders, says Parker, have long been puzzled and critics bothered by the inconsistencies between the character of Pierre in the beginning of the novel and his suddenly becoming an author in later chapters. Parker argues that the reason for this change is biographical, not artistic. He deduces that Melville took a far shorter manuscript to New York for delivery to Harper & Brothers publishing house. The publisher was not pleased to see a psychological novel that delivered sexual and literary shocks and threatened to damage its audience. In any case, the Harper brothers offered a contract so unfavorable that it may actually have been meant as a rejection. This fueled Melville's ire—as did his reading of the negative reviews of \"Moby-Dick\" while he was in New York. Parker believes that Melville may have shown the original, shorter manuscript to Everett Duyckinck, who condemned the sexual content as immoral. In frustration and retaliation, Parker concludes, Melville, perhaps in two or three batches, may only then have added the sections dealing with Pierre's literary career, especially the chapter \"Young America in Literature,\" which describes publishers and critics in scathing terms. These additions undermined the structure of the novel and muddied the characterization of Pierre, whom Melville had not originally intended to be an author.\n\nIn 1995, Parker published (with HarperCollins) an edition of \"Pierre\" that demonstrates what the original might have been like by removing the sections which present Pierre as an author, notably the entirety of Books XVII, XVIII, XXII and passages from other books. Melville scholar John Bryant praised this edition's illustrations by Maurice Sendak, which present Pierre as a \"full-blown adolescent: muscular, ecstatic, desperate, devoted, and lonely; he is the man-child invincible.\" Bryant points out that Sendak's earlier children's book \"Pierre \"was written with Melville in mind.\n\nWalter Leyden Brown directed a theatrical adaptation of the book at La MaMa Experimental Theatre Club in Manhattan's East Village in 1974.\n\nThe book was the source for the 1999 French film \"Pola X\" (\"Pierre ou les ambiguïtés\") directed by Leos Carax.\n\nThe Denver Center Theatre Company developed and produced the world premiere of \"Pierre\" in 2002, a stage play written by Jeffrey Hatcher, and directed by Bruce K. Sevy. The cast included Christopher Kelly as Pierre Glendinning and Morgan Hallett as Isabel Banford.\n\nAmerican composer Richard Beaudoin wrote an opera based on the book; Act I was staged in August 2007 at London's Arcola Theatre.\n\n"}
{"id": "2132596", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2132596", "title": "Toothbrush moustache", "text": "Toothbrush moustache\n\nThe toothbrush moustache is a moustache style that is shaved at the edges, leaving three to five centimeters of facial hair above the center of the lip. The sides of the moustache are vertical (or nearly vertical) rather than tapered, giving the moustache hairs the appearance of toothbrush bristles that are attached to the nose. It was made famous by such comedians as Charlie Chaplin and Oliver Hardy. The style first became popular in the United States in the late 19th century—from there it spread to Germany and elsewhere—reaching a height of popularity in the inter-war years, before becoming unfashionable after World War II due to its association with German Nazi leader Adolf Hitler.\n\nOther names for this style of moustache include: the \"Hitler\", \"Charlie Chaplin\", \"1/3\", \"philtrum moustache\", \"postage stamp\".\n\nThe style originally became popular in the late 19th century in the United States. It was a neat, uniform, low-maintenance style that echoed the standardization and uniformity brought on by industrialization, in contrast to the more flamboyant moustaches typical of the 19th century such as the Imperial, Walrus, Handlebar, Horseshoe, and Pencil.\n\nCharlie Chaplin was one of the most famous wearers of the toothbrush moustache, first adopting it sometime after 1914 for his Mack Sennett silent comedies. In a 1933 interview, Chaplin said he added the moustache to his costume because it had a comical appearance and was small enough so as not to hide his expression. Adolf Hitler was a fan of Chaplin, but \"there is no evidence (though some speculation) that Hitler modeled his 'stache on [Charlie Chaplin]\", according to cultural historian Ron Rosenbaum. Chaplin took advantage of the noted similarity between his on-screen appearance and that of Hitler, such as in his 1940 film \"The Great Dictator\", where he wore the moustache as part of two new characters that parodied Hitler.\n\nThe style was introduced in Germany in the late 19th century by visiting Americans. Prior to the toothbrush, the most popular style was called the , perfumed and turned up at the ends, as worn by Wilhelm II, German Emperor. By 1907 enough Germans were wearing the new trimmed down and simple toothbrush moustache to elicit notice by \"The New York Times\" under the headline \"'TOOTHBRUSH' MUSTACHE; German Women Resent Its Usurpation of the 'Kaiserbart'\". The toothbrush was taken up by German automobile racer and folk hero Hans Koeppen in the famous 1908 New York to Paris Race, cementing its popularity among young gentry. Koeppen was described as \"Six-feet in height, slim, and athletic, with a toothbrush mustache characteristic of his class, he looks the ideal type of the young Prussian guardsman.\" By the end of World War I even some of the German royals were sporting the toothbrush; Crown Prince Wilhelm can be seen with a toothbrush moustache in a 1918 photograph that shows him about to be sent into exile.\n\nHitler originally wore the Kaiser moustache, as evidenced by photographs of him as a soldier during World War I. There is no agreement as to what year Hitler first adopted the toothbrush. Alexander Moritz Frey, who served with Hitler during World War I, said Hitler wore the toothbrush in the trenches after he was ordered to trim his moustache to facilitate the wearing of a gas mask. Cultural historian Ron Rosenbaum instead says Hitler did not wear it until late 1919; he was also with a more traditional moustache in between wearing the Kaiser and toothbrush style.\n\nDespite the photographic evidence of his much larger moustache during the First World War, Hitler's sister-in-law, Bridget Hitler, said she was responsible for giving Hitler his toothbrush moustache before the war—considered by most scholars to be fiction designed to cash in on Hitler's notoriety. Bridget claimed that Adolf spent a \"lost winter\" at her home in Liverpool in 1912–13. The two quarreled a lot, mostly, she said, because she could not stand his unruly Kaiser moustache. He cut it, as she says in her memoirs, but that in doing so—as in most things—he went too far.\n\nAfter World War II the style fell from favor in much of the world, due to its strong association with Hitler, and also became known as the \"Hitler moustache\".\n\nArtist Steve Ditko's original design for fictional character J. Jonah Jameson, a supporting character in the Spider-Man comics, sported a toothbrush moustache, apparently meant to make him seem Hitleresque and thus more loathsome, considering his extreme antagonism to Spider-Man, and most appearances of Jameson since his creation have maintained the style or a variant thereof in the comics. (Notably, however, actor J. K. Simmons's portrayal of Jameson in the \"Spider-Man\" films of the early 2000s featured a pencil moustache instead.)\n\nRon Mael of the Los Angeles-based rock band Sparks maintained a toothbrush-moustache throughout most of the 1970s and 80s. Upon achieving mainstream success in the United Kingdom in 1974 with the song \"This Town Ain't Big Enough for Both of Us\", \"The Economist\" noted that \"a whole generation switched on \"Top of the Pops\", saw Ron Mael's moustache, and ran out of the room, crying, 'Mum! Dad! Hitler's playing the piano on 'Top of the Pops'!'\" (The Sparks song \"Moustache\" addresses the problem, with the lyrics \"And when I trimmed it very small/My Jewish friends would never call.\")\n\nIn 2009, British comedian Richard Herring, while sporting a toothbrush moustache, created a stand-up show titled \"Hitler Moustache\", to see if he \"could reclaim the toothbrush moustache for comedy—it was Chaplin's first, then Hitler ruined it.\" The show also discusses broader issues, such as fascism and the British National Party.\n\nIn May 2010, former basketball star Michael Jordan appeared in a Hanes commercial wearing a toothbrush moustache. Reaction from the press and public was unfavourable. Jordan's friend Charles Barkley said, \"I have got to admit that I don't know what the hell he was thinking and I don't know what Hanes was thinking. I mean it is just stupid, it is just bad, plain and simple.\" Jordan has not been seen with it since.\n\nAn extreme variant of the toothbrush moustache narrows it to the philtrum only; Robert Mugabe and Soviet politician Vasil Mzhavanadze both wore this style.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2132600", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2132600", "title": "Vladimir Tošić", "text": "Vladimir Tošić\n\nVladimir Tošić (also spelled Vladimir Tosic) (born 1949 in Belgrade, Yugoslavia) is a Serbian composer and visual artist. His works are generally composed according to very stringent minimal principles, which he refers to as \"reductionist principles of composing.\"\n\nTošić teaches at the Faculty of Music in Belgrade, teaching counterpoint, harmony, and musical forms. He graduated with a composition degree from the same faculty, studying with Vasilije Mokranjac.\n\n"}
{"id": "2132601", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2132601", "title": "Wolfheze", "text": "Wolfheze\n\nWolfheze is a village in the Dutch province of Gelderland. It is located in the municipality of Renkum, 10 km northwest of the city of Arnhem.\n\nWolfheze, litterly meaning 'the young forest where wolves live', started as a living area at the slopes of the natural streams which still run the little valley. From very early days burial mounds (1500 B.C.) can be found, one of these known as the 'Kings grave', for the remains found in it.\nIn the 10th or 11th century a stone church, approx. 8 meters wide and about 20 meters long, was built on what is today still called the 'Capellenheuvel' (chapels hill) A few farms (all disappeared), ground walls against game and crop fields built the former hamlet of 'Wolffheezen'. It must have been abandoned at the end of the 16th century. The last of the church remains were sold as building material as an historic source says in the year of 1624. The hamlet was not on this location by accident; routes for heavy traffic from Germany to the Netherlands went right through, as still can be seen by the deep trails in the heath.\n\nIn the 19th century the remains of the church were recovered. Most of the burial mounts were excavated as well. Nowadays, the site still shows the remains of where the church was, the burial mounts, the tracks of the German traffic and the remains of at least 13 crop fields from the Middle Ages.\n\nWolfheze has had a train station on the railway line between Utrecht and Arnhem since 1845. In 1906 a charitable institution for the care of the mentally ill (Dutch: \"Vereniging tot Christelijke verzorging van geestes- en zenuwzieken\") purchased a large woods on the south side of the train line on which to build a care center. In 1911 a center for the blind purchased a tract of land on the north side. During the first World War German prisoners of war were camped nearby. The street name 'Duitsekampweg' (German camp road) is a reminder of this site, where 26 years later one of the landing zones of the British army was.\nRenkum nowadays has about 1500 inhabitants.\n\nThe Western part of the village is still a revalidation centre for the mentally ill, called Pro Persona today. The center has a small museum with historical artifacts illustrating the history of the care for the mentally ill in Wolfheze. The center was bombed by mistake in World War II and the hospital needed to be evacuated, an operation that resulted in several deaths among the weaker patients.\n\nWolfheze is also one of the many places where fighting in World War II took place, and an Airborne monument is situated there to commemorate Polish and British participants in Operation Market Garden.\n"}
{"id": "2132604", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2132604", "title": "Third Cinema", "text": "Third Cinema\n\nThird Cinema () is a Latin American film movement that started in the 1960s–70s which decries neocolonialism, the capitalist system, and the Hollywood model of cinema as mere entertainment to make money. The term was coined in the manifesto \"Hacia un tercer cine\" (\"Toward a Third Cinema\"), written in the late 1960s by Argentine filmmakers Fernando Solanas and Octavio Getino, members of the \"Grupo Cine Liberación\" and published in 1969 in the cinema journal \"Tricontinental\" by the OSPAAAL (Organization of Solidarity with the People of Asia, Africa and Latin America).\n\nSolanas and Getino's manifesto considers 'First Cinema' to be the Hollywood production model that idealizes bourgeois values to a passive audience through escapist spectacle and individual characters. 'Second Cinema' is the European art film, which rejects Hollywood conventions but is centred on the individual expression of the auteur director. Third Cinema is meant to be non-commercialized, challenging Hollywood's model. Third Cinema rejects the view of cinema as a vehicle for personal expression, seeing the director instead as part of a collective; it appeals to the masses by presenting the truth and inspiring revolutionary activism. Solanas and Getino argue that traditional exhibition models also need to be avoided: the films should be screened clandestinely, both in order to avoid censorship and commercial networks, but also so that the viewer must take a risk to see them.\n\nThere are still some difficulties to clearly define what is considered \"First Cinema\" versus \"Third Cinema\". For example, Bollywood, one of the largest centres of film production in the world, can be viewed as resistance against \"First Cinema\" due to political, cultural and aesthetic differences, but at the same time it can also be said that Bollywood is a popular commercialized industry\n\nThere are four manifestos accredited to beginning the genre of Third Cinema: Glauber Rocha’s “Aesthetic of Hunger” (1965), Julio García Espinosa’s “For an Imperfect Cinema” (1969), “Problems of Form and Content in Revolutionary Cinema” (1976) by Jorge Sanjinés, and finally “Toward a Third Cinema” (1969) by Fernando Solanas and Octavio Getino. Although all four define the broad and far reaching genre, Solanas and Getino's “Toward a Third Cinema” is well known for its political stance and outline of the genre.\n\nExplaining the neo-colonialist dilemma and the need for “a cinema of subversion” or “a revolutionary cinema”, “Toward a Third Cinema” begins by explaining the dilemma that the anti-imperialist film-maker is left with a paradoxical need to survive within as well as subvert “the System”.“Third cinema is, in our opinion, the cinema that recognizes in that struggle the most gigantic cultural, scientific, and artistic manifestation of our time, the great possibility of constructing a liberated personality with each people as the starting point – in a word, the decolonization of culture.”Solanas and Getino define the problem with 'the System' (the political and cultural authorities in place) as being one that reduces film to a commodity that exists to fill the needs of the film industry that creates them—mainly in the United States. This “spectator cinema” continues a lack of awareness within the masses of a difference between class interests or “that of the rulers and that of the nation”. To the authors, films of 'the System' do not function to change or move the culture forward; they function to maintain it.\n\nWith the advancement of technology in film in the late 1960s (simplification of cameras and tape recorders, rapid film that can be shot in normal light, automatic light meters, improved audio/visual synchronization), Solanas and Getino argue that an alternative cinema is finally possible. The authors cite the Imperfect Cinema movement in Cuba, Cinegiornali liberi in Italy, Zengakuren documentaries in Japan as proof that it is already happening.\n\nUrging the need to further politicize and experiment with the format of film—mainly the documentary—Solanas and Getino illustrate the somewhat obscure and non-universal steps that must be taken to make “revolutionary cinema”:“Real alternatives differing from those offered by the System are only possible if one of two requirements is fulfilled: making films that the System cannot assimilate and which are foreign to its needs, or making films that directly and explicitly set out to fight the System.”\n\nParadoxically, Solanas and Getino continue to state that it is not enough to simply rebel against 'the System'. The manifesto uses Jean-Luc Godard and the French New Wave throughout as a formidable example of a group which failed to properly to subvert 'the System'. Referring to it as “second cinema” or “author's cinema”, the problem begins with the genre's attempt to exist parallel, be distributed by, and funded by 'the System'. Solanas and Getino quote Godard's self-description as being 'trapped inside the fortress' and refer to the metaphor throughout the manifesto.\n\nBecause of this paradox of subversion but need for distinctions between commodified rebellion and “the cinema of revolution”, Solanas and Getino recognize that film-makers must function like a guerilla unit, one that “cannot grow strong without military structures and command concepts.” The authors also recognize that the difficulties encountered by those attempting to make revolutionary cinema will stem mainly from its need to work as a synchronized unit. Claiming that the only solution to these difficulties is common awareness of the basics of interpersonal relationships, Solanas and Getino go further to state that “The myth of the irreplaceable technicians must be exploded.”\n\nThe guerilla-film unit requires that all members have general knowledge of the equipment being used and caution that any failure in a production will be ten-fold that of a first cinema production. This condition—based on the fact that monetary support will be slim and come mainly from the group itself—also requires that members of the guerilla-film unit be wary and maintain an amount of silence not custom to conventional film-making.“The success of the work depends [on]…permanent wariness, a condition that is difficult to achieve in a situation in which apparently nothing is happening and the film-maker has been accustomed to telling all…because the bourgeoisie has trained him precisely on such a basis of prestige and promotion.”\n\nThe manifesto concludes with an explanation for how to best distribute third cinema films. Using their own experience with \"La Hora de los Hornos (The Hour of the Furnaces)\", Solanas and Getino share that the most intellectually profitable showings were followed by group discussions. The following elements (Solanas and Getino even refer to them as mise en scène) that “reinforce the themes of the films, the climate of the showing, the ‘disinhibiting’ of the participants, and the dialogue”:\nWhen distributed correctly, third cinema films will result in the audience members becoming what Solanas and Getino refer to as “man-actor-accomplices” as they become crucial to the film achieving its goal to transform society. It is only when the “man-actor-accomplice” responds to the film that third cinema becomes effective.“Freeing a forbidden truth means setting free the possibility of indignation and subversion. Our truth, that of the new man who builds himself by getting rid of all the defects that still weigh him down, is a bomb of inexhaustible power and, at the same time, the only real possibility of life.”\n\nThird Cinema manifestos and theories evolved in the 1960s and 1970s as a response to the social, political, and economic realities in Latin American countries which were experiencing oppression from perceived Neo-colonial policies. In their manifesto, Solana and Getino describe Third Cinema as a cinematic movement and a dramatic alternative to First Cinema, which was produced in Hollywood, for the purpose of entertaining its audiences; and from Second Cinema that increased the author's liberty of expression. Fundamentally different, Third Cinema films sought to inspire revolution against class, racial and gender inequalities. Spectators were called upon to reflect on social injustices and the process by which their realities occurred, and to take action to transform their conditions. Even though Third Cinema films arose during revolutionary eras in Latin America and other countries, this filmmaking is still influential today. This style of filmmaking includes a radical form of production, distribution and exhibition that seeks to expose the living conditions of people at the grassroots level.\n\nPurpose and Goals of Third Cinema\nThird Cinema seeks to expose the process by which oppression occurs; and to criticize those responsible for social inequality in a country or community.\nSome of the goals of Third Cinema are:\n\nProduction\nDue to their political nature, Third Cinema films were often censored and therefore, the production and distribution of these films were innovative. Films used documentary clips, news reels, photographs, video clips, interviews and/or statistics and in some cases, non-professional actors. These production elements are combined in an inventive manner to create a message that is specific to its local audience. The staff in production share all aspects of the production process by working collectively. In Third Cinema, for example, a Director can be the Cameraman, the Photographer or the Writer at different phases of the production. Since Third Cinema films were highly politicized, they often lacked the funding and support needed for production or distribution and instead sought funding outside government agencies or traditional financing opportunities available to commercial films. Other unique aspects of Third Cinema film production is the use of their local natural landscape for film shootings often in parts of the country not previously seen. This unique feature was augmented by highlighting the local history and culture of its nation.\n\nThird Cinema's critique and resistance of Hollywood's imperialist “spectator” cinema also opened for differing representations of women in film. While feminist film movements in the United States in the 1970s critiqued the eurocentric and heteronormative sexism within the First-World, the intersection of heterosexism with racism and imperialism seemed to get little attention from mainstream film journals. Because of the reluctance of First-World feminists to acknowledge the importance of nationalism and geographic identity within differing struggles of women, the films made by the women of Third Cinema were usually seen as “burdened” from the Western feminist perspective by these identities.“Notions of nation and race, along with community-based work, are implicitly dismissed as both too “specific” to qualify for the theoretical realm of “feminist theory” and as too “inclusive” in their concern for nation and race that they presumably “lose sight” of feminism.”Along with the advancement and availability of technology, and the revolutionary tactics proposed by Third Cinema, third-worldist feminist film-makers began to tell their own stories. Because the genre proposed a non-homogeneous approach to cinema (one which allowed variation from region to region and intersection between fiction and documentary), differing stories of “womanhood” and women's position within revolutions could be told. Lebanese film director Heiny Srour commented in one interview:“Those of us from the Third World have to reject the ideas of film narration based on the 19th century bourgeois novel with its commitment to harmony. Our societies have been too lacerated and fractured by colonial powers to fit into those neat scenarios.” Notable films include Sarah Maldoror’s \"Sambizanga\" (Mozambique, 1972) which takes place in Angola where a woman awakens to “revolutionary consciousness” to the struggle of the ruling party the MPLA. In Heiny Srour’s documentary \"Saat al Tahrir (The Hour of Liberation)\" (Oman, 1973) followed women fighters during the revolution in Oman. Srour’s 1984 film \"Leila wal dhiab\" (\"Leila and the Wolves\") (Lebanon) followed the role of women in the Palestine Liberation Movement. Helena Solberg Ladd’s \"Nicaragua Up From the Ashes\" (U.S. 1982) documents the role of women in the Sandinista revolution. Sara Gomez’s \"De cierta manera (One Way or Another)\" epitomizes Third Cinema’s involvement in the intersection of fiction and documentary as it gives a feminist critique of the Cuban revolution.\n\nThis is an incomplete list and still does not reflect the number of film-makers that have contributed to Third Cinema.\n\nThe aesthetic of Third Cinema is influenced by its low budget and amateur film makers, leading to a style of film not reliant on special effects and action set pieces, but rather on real life events and subtle stories. This deviation from the traditional Western film structure can be seen today reflected in both documentary and feature films. In the age of digital filmmaking, it’s become easier than ever to produce a film without technical training or access to expensive equipment. Some notable examples of this are guerilla documentaries (See: The Gurilla Filmmakers Handbook). Robert Greenwalt’s timely films released through grass-roots organizations, “” and “” were shot in historical Hollywood places where movies like “Gone with the Wind” were originally filmed. “Outfoxed” was one of his secretive films about the distortion of information by Fox News (Boynton, 2004). \n\nSean Baker, an American filmmaker who shot an entire movie on an iPhone 5S, created the most talked-about iPhone film called “Tangerine.” Following two Los Angeles prostitutes around the glowing city, viewers are reminded how he tends to cast unlikely protagonists. Other artists in the industry are creating films with iPads, digital cameras, and creating motion with bicycles, all hinging on the low-budget, surprise-delivering spirit of the Third Cinema (Murphey, 2015). \n\nThird Cinema continues to inspire and challenge modern and current artists and filmmakers. The ripples of this movement can still be seen in both overall aesthetic and in its ability to challenge political ideals and standards as well as what is “typical” in the movie industry. This influence of modern works has been appreciated all over the world. Experts agree that Solanas and Getino urged for “Third Cinema can and should emerge from everywhere” (Saljoughi, 2016). The purposeful activism sparked by Third Cinema was not defined to play catch-up to wealthier filmmakers, but to spark innovative creation in third world populations. Marked by risk-taking and storytelling, the genre is not secretive in its aims (Sarkar, n.d.). \n\nThird Cinema attempted to unite Third World populations experiencing oppression, focusing on Central America, Africa and Asia (Ivo, 2018). The motivation of these films was to inspire these populations to revolution against the controlling regimes. Third Cinema established a departure from both the norms of commercial Hollywood films, as well as the Second Cinema movement of European art films. Rather than create dramatic storylines, these artists strove to show the drama of everyday life while promoting critical thinking (Gonon, n.d.). This rejection of traditional film democratized the industry and opened the possibility for smaller scale stories to be told (Wayne, 2019). \nSolanas and Getino actually wrote the main part of their manifesto in dictator-controlled Argentina. When Solanas was exiled in Paris, he gave the Third Cinema a more broadened definition, adding the importance of the “conception of the world” (Stollery, 2002). While many filmmaker have deemed the movement antiquated and not of progressive value, experts re-envision the Third Cinema as an object of analysis (Dixon & Zonn, 2005). \n\nMore recently, the military repression of Cuba in the 1970’s slowed this creative filmmaking on the island. The Edinburgh Film Festival held a conference on Third Cinema in 1986, marking a resurgence of the genre. The result of this conference was the publication of Questions of Third Cinema by many authors, which failed to include contributors from Latin America and even Solanas and Getino themselves. Third Cinema is then discussed as encompassing most Latin American films and all films that have political charge and meaning. \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2132605", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2132605", "title": "12 Play", "text": "12 Play\n\n12 Play is the debut studio album by American R&B and soul singer-songwriter R. Kelly; it was released on November 9, 1993, by Jive Records. The album follows his tenure with R&B group Public Announcement, with whom he released one album, \"Born into the 90's\" (1992). It went on to top the R&B albums chart for nine weeks straight, while reaching the second position on the US \"Billboard\" 200 chart.\n\nThe album features four singles including the sexually-themed singles \"Bump n' Grind\" (US, number 1), \"Your Body's Callin'\" (US, number 13), and the more overtly direct \"Sex Me, Pts. 1 & 2\" (US, number 20). The album serves as the first of a trilogy of albums Kelly released under the \"\"12 Play\"\" moniker including \"TP-2.com\" (2000) and \"\" (2005). Since receiving an initially mixed response from critics, \"12 Play\" has received more favorable retrospective criticism.\n\nFollowing the success of \"Born into the 90's\", as the member of the R&B group Public Announcement, Kelly began touring as an opening act for Gerald Levert and Glenn Jones. During the tour, Kelly said that he became frustrated with the poor lighting and empty seats during his set. To generate more attention during his set, Kelly began thinking of what would be his gimmick to take his show to the next level, something that would make people remember him. Kelly stated: \"I thought about it for a couple of days, and I finally came up with a little skit, me just talking to the audience. At the point in the show where I would break down \"Honey Love,\" I would start talking to the audience.\"\n\nThe audience yelled \"YES!\" and Kelly's piano player accompanied him with chords. Kelly then begun the countdown, \"One. We'll go to my room of fun.\" The \"12 Play\" gimmick became so big that when Kelly went to radio stations to promote \"Born into the 90's\", the DJ's wanted to hear \"12 Play.\" The demand for \"12 Play\" was so big that R. Kelly decided to create an album titled \"12 Play\". Kelly later said:\n\n\"I didn't really know if the album would be as successful as it has been, but I hoped that it would. I was really taking a chance with the concept of this album.\" - Kelly on the concept of the \"12 Play\" album, 1994.\n\nCredits adapted from AllMusic.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2132619", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2132619", "title": "Chelow kabab", "text": "Chelow kabab\n\nChelow kabab ( ) is an Iranian dish consisting of cooked rice () and one of the many varieties of Iranian kebab. It is considered the \"national dish\" of Iran, and was probably created by the time of the Qajar dynasty.\n\nChelow kabab is served with accompaniments such as butter, sumac powder, basil, onions, and grilled tomatoes. The traditional beverage accompanied with chelow kebab is doogh, an Iranian yogurt-based drink, sometimes made of carbonated water.\n\nIn the old bazaar tradition, the rice and accompaniments are served first, immediately followed by the kababs, which are threaded on skewers, as well as a piece of flat bread (typically lavash). A skewer is placed directly on the rice and while holding the kabab down on the rice with the bread, the skewer is quickly pulled out.\n\n"}
{"id": "2132625", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2132625", "title": "Maximilian von Prittwitz", "text": "Maximilian von Prittwitz\n\nMaximilian “Max” Wilhelm Gustav Moritz von Prittwitz und Gaffron (27 November 1848 – 29 March 1917) was an Imperial German general. He fought in the Austro-Prussian War, the Franco-Prussian War, and briefly in the First World War.\n\nPrittwitz came from an old aristocratic Silesian family in Bernstadt (now Bierutów, Poland). His father was Gustav von Prittwitz, a Prussian general, and his mother was Elizabeth von Klass.\n\nOn 19 May 1874 Prittwitz married Olga von Dewitz (30 August 1848 – 9 January 1938), the daughter of Kurt von Dewitz, a landowner and his wife Euphemia, née von der Groeben. Their only son died on 23 May 1918.\n\nAfter attending a school in Oels, Prittwitz joined the 3rd Guard Grenadier Regiment and fought in the Austro-Prussian War. He was then commissioned as a junior officer in the 38th Fusileers with which regiment he served in the Franco-Prussian War. After attending the Prussian Military Academy Prittwitz was appointed to the 6th Jaeger Battalion. He subsequently held a number of General Staff positions, interspersed with company and battalion commander appointments in various infantry regiments. In 1913 he was appointed as \"Generaloberst\" (full general), in command of the XVI. Army Corps in Metz. \n\nOn 2 August 1914, at the outbreak of the First World War, Prittwitz was appointed commander of the German Eighth Army and assigned to defend East Prussia from an expected Russian attack.\n\nWhen the Russian invasion threatened his rear, Prittwitz suggested a retreat to the west of the Vistula. This meant abandoning East Prussia, which the German General Staff found unacceptable. Prittwitz was promptly replaced as Eighth Army commander by Paul von Hindenburg on 23 August 1914. Hindenburg, and his chief of staff Erich Ludendorff, then destroyed the two invading Russian armies at the Battles of Tannenberg and the Masurian Lakes. \n\nPrittwitz retired to Berlin, where he lived for three years before dying of a heart attack. He was buried in the Invalids' Cemetery (\"Invalidenfriedhof\") in Berlin.\n\n"}
{"id": "2132630", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2132630", "title": "Frederic Joseph DeLongchamps", "text": "Frederic Joseph DeLongchamps\n\nFrederic Joseph DeLongchamps (June 2, 1882 – February 11, 1969) was an American architect. He was one of Nevada's most prolific architects, yet is notable for entering the architectural profession with no extensive formal training. He has also been known as Frederick J. DeLongchamps, and was described by the latter name in an extensive review of the historic importance of his works which led to many of them being listed on the U.S. National Register of Historic Places in the 1980s.\n\nBorn Frederic Joseph DeLonchamps in Reno, Nevada on January 2, 1882, he was raised in Washoe County, graduating from Reno High School in 1900, then the University of Nevada in 1904 with a degree in mining engineering.\n\nDeLongchamps was employed as a mining engineer and draftsman in Inyo County, California before he embarked on a career in architecture. He spent a short time in San Francisco where he may have apprenticed, but he returned to Nevada in 1907 and formed a partnership with Ira W. Tesch.\n\nFrom 1909 to 1938, DeLongchamps maintained his own firm and became one of Nevada's most prolific architects. He designed both private and public buildings including nine county courthouses in Nevada and California. He was awarded the contract to design the Nevada Buildings for the Panama-Pacific International Exposition (1915), winning a silver medal for his work. DeLongchamps was appointed Nevada State Architect in 1919 and was the only person to hold the position, which was abolished in 1926. During this time, he designed many state buildings.\n\nIn 1939, George L. F. O'Brien joined DeLongchamps in partnership in Reno, and Hewitt Wells added his name to the association in 1962. The architectural firm of DeLongchamps, O'Brien and Wells continued to design buildings, mainly in the Reno area, into the 1960s.\n\nDeLongchamps died in Reno, Nevada on February 11, 1969. He was survived by his son, Galen (08 Aug 1916-22 Jul 2001). He was the father-in-law of the noted poet and artist Joanne de Longchamps (that is how she spelled the name), who married DeLongchamps's adopted son Galen.\n\nRussell Mills is one who worked as a draftsman for DeLongchamps and went on to have a career as an independent architect.\n\nMany of DeLongchamps' works have been listed on the National Register.\n\nHis works include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2132637", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2132637", "title": "Pyropia columbina", "text": "Pyropia columbina\n\nPyropia columbina, Southern laver or karengo in the Māori language, is a species of edible seaweed traditionally harvested by South Island Māori. It is closely related to Japanese Nori and Welsh laverbread.\n\nDuring World War 2 the Māori Battalion were supplied especially with karengo harvested in New Zealand which they chewed raw while on the march. It is widely available only in health stores, and is sprinkled raw on top of food.\n\nThe type locality is the Auckland Islands, and the species authority is Montagne 1842. It is found around South America from Argentina, Chile and Peru, and around Australia and New Zealand including Macquarie Island.\nIn the Chilean cuisine it is known as \"luche\".\n\nThe morphology of this species is variable, the fronds vary in shape and color. They can measure up to 10 cm long, they are flat, lobed at the edges and in some cases wavy. The color can vary from light brown, yellow and in some cases with light red to discolored edges. In the margins, the reproductive structures are presented, which when they are released, have a whitish coloration.\n\nThe algae are collected from the shore, smoked or cured, then a kind of pressed tortilla is formed, also called \"bread of fight\", which are marketed in craft markets in different parts of the country with greater emphasis on the South of Chile. This seaweed is used for the preparation of stews, casseroles and legumes.\n\n"}
{"id": "2132644", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2132644", "title": "Bile up", "text": "Bile up\n\nThe bile up (or boil-up) is considered the cultural dish of the Kriols of Belize. It is a combination of boiled eggs, fish and/or pig tail, with cassava, yams, or sweet potatoes, plantains, and tomato sauce.\n"}
{"id": "2132645", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2132645", "title": "Texas City Refinery explosion", "text": "Texas City Refinery explosion\n\nThe Texas City Refinery explosion occurred on March 23, 2005, when a hydrocarbon vapor cloud was ignited and violently exploded at the ISOM isomerization process unit at BP's Texas City refinery in Texas City, Texas, killing 15 workers, injuring 180 others and severely damaging the refinery. The Texas City Refinery was the second-largest oil refinery in the state, and the third-largest in the United States with an input capacity of per day as of January 1, 2000. BP acquired the Texas City refinery as part of its merger with Amoco in 1999.\n\nBP's own accident investigation report stated that the direct cause of the accident was \"[...]heavier–than-air hydrocarbon vapors combusting after coming into contact with an ignition source, probably a running vehicle engine. The hydrocarbons originated from liquid overflow from the F-20 blowdown stack following the operation of the raffinate splitter overpressure protection system caused by overfilling and overheating of the tower contents.\" Both the BP and the U.S. Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board reports identified numerous technical and organizational failings at the refinery and within corporate BP.\n\nIn 2011 BP announced that it was selling the refinery as part of its ongoing divestment plan to pay for ongoing compensation claims and remedial activities following the \"Deepwater Horizon\" disaster in 2010. The sale of the refinery was successfully completed at the start of 2013 to Marathon Petroleum Corporation for US$2.5 billion.\n\nThe refinery was built in 1934, but had not been well maintained for several years. Consulting firm Telos had examined conditions at the plant and released a report in January 2005 which found numerous safety issues, including \"broken alarms, thinned pipe, chunks of concrete falling, bolts dropping and staff being overcome with fumes.\" The report's co-author stated, \"We have never seen a site where the notion 'I could die today' was so real.\" The refinery had also had five managers in the six years since BP inherited it in its 1999 merger with Amoco.\nThe ISOM plant isomerization at the site was designed for the conversion of low octane hydrocarbons, through various chemical processes, into hydrocarbons with higher octane ratings that could then be blended into unleaded gasoline. One component of this ISOM site was a unit called the raffinate splitter. When operational, this 170-foot (50 m) tall tower was used to separate out lighter hydrocarbon components from the top of the tower (mainly pentane and hexane), which condensed and were then pumped to the light raffinate storage tank, while the heavier components were recovered lower down in the splitter, then pumped to a heavy raffinate storage tank. It had an operational capacity of per day.\n\nRemedial work had been started on the raffinate splitter from February 21, 2005. Two other turnaround activities were also taking place at the adjacent Ultracracker Unit (UCU) and at the Aromatics Recovery Unit (ARU) at the same time.\n\nIn 1995 and again in 2002, site-wide temporary siting analysis reports had been created at the facility that established the agreed layout of trailers and other temporary structures. The next siting analysis was due to take place in 2007 and, therefore, any siting changes before then would be under the management of change (MOC) process. Plans were made late in 2004 to accommodate contractors due to work on the UCU in 2005 in nine single trailers and a single double-wide trailer adjacent to the ISOM process unit. Although the team carrying out this assessment had identified that the double-wide trailer would be less than from the ISOM plant (and therefore had the potential to be susceptible to severe damage in the event of an explosion), they did not have the expertise to complete the Amoco workboat siting analysis, which was based upon the American Petroleum Institute standard \"API 752\". A number of action items were created from this assessment, and according to the procedure, these had to be closed before the MOC could be approved and prior to the double-wide trailer being used. These two actions were still pending in March, 2005 but nevertheless, the double-wide trailer had already been in use by contractors from November, 2004. The remaining nine UCU contractor trailers arrived on site at the start of 2005, but these had not been included in the 2004 MOC, so the additional exposure risk of these new trailers being occupied in close proximity to the ISOM plant was never assessed.\n\nAfter works had been completed on the raffinate splitter, consideration was given to the impending start-up of the plant. One of the primary safety critical steps in the prestart-up process was the use of the BP Pre-Startup Safety Review (PSSR) procedure. The purpose of the review was to ensure that complete and thorough technical checks were carried out and that all non-essential personnel were clear during the start-up operation. Once completed, the PSSR would be signed off by refinery operations and safety managers, authorising the start-up work but this essential safety procedure was not completed. In addition, there were a number of serious issues with items of safety critical equipment which had not been resolved prior to the start-up commencing including an inoperative pressure control valve (PV-5002), a defective high level alarm in the splitter tower (LSH-5102), a defective sight glass used to indicate fluid levels at the base of the splitter tower and the vital splitter tower level transmitter had not been calibrated.\n\nNevertheless, the start-up process commenced with the Night Lead Operator on the March 23 with the initial filling of the splitter tower. The level transmitter was designed to indicate the raffinate level within a span from the bottom of the splitter tower to a level, i.e., 72% level indication would be from the bottom, but it was common practice to fill up to an indicated level of 99%, even though the procedural requirement was stated as 50%. The Day Supervisor arrived late for work and did not have a hand-over with the night shift. During the morning meeting on March 23, it was discussed that the heavy raffinate storage tanks were nearly full and, therefore, the second Day Supervisor was told that the start-up procedure should not continue, but this information was not passed on. The start-up procedure resumed just before 9:30 a.m. under instructions from the other Day Supervisor. Before recommencing the tower refill and circulation process, heavy raffinate was drained from the bottom of the tower via the level control valve into the heavy storage tank and was then shut off in \"manual\" mode and not the required \"automatic\" mode, with a 50% flow rate. The circulation process was restarted just before 10 a.m. and raffinate was once again fed into the tower, even though the level was already too high. Since the level control valve was shut and, therefore, there was no circulation out of the tower, i.e. no heavy raffinate being transferred to the storage tank, the splitter tower inevitably began to fill up. The defective level transmitter continued to show the level at less than 100%, and since the external sight glass was opaque, a visual check to verify the level in the splitter tower was not possible.\n\nBurners in the furnace were turned on to pre-heat raffinate going into the tower and to heat the raffinate in the tower bottom, two more were lit at 11:16 am. The required temperature for the tower reboiler return flow was at per hour but the procedure was not followed. During this start-up, this return flow temperature reached with a rate increase of per hour. The erroneous 93% reading from the defective level transmitter still indicated an ongoing safe level condition in the tower but there was still no flow of heavy raffinate from the splitter tower to the storage tank as the level control valve remained closed; instead of the hydrocarbon liquid level being at , i.e. 93% level, as indicated, it had actually reached . Just before midday, with heat increasing in the tower, the actual fluid level had risen to . Pressure started to build up in the system as the remaining nitrogen in the tower and associated pipework became compressed with the increasing volume of raffinate. The operations crew thought that the pressure rise was a result of overheating in the tower bottoms as this was a known start-up issue, so the pressure was released.\n\nBy 12:42 p.m., the furnaces had been turned down and the level control valve was finally opened, draining heavy raffinate from the splitter tower. The operators believed the level transmitter reading which was now down to 78% () but the fluid level in the tall splitter tower had now reached . Although the raffinate flow into and out of the tower were now matching (as the heated raffinate was now leaving the bottom of the tower), heat from this outflow was being transferred via a heat exchanger back into the liquid flowing into the tower from the feed pipe, raising the average temperature inside the column close to the liquid's boiling point. The liquid, already close to the top of the tower but continuing to expand due to the heat, finally entered the overhead vapor line and flowed into the relief valve system.\n\nPressure built up in the system as fluid filled the pipework running to the safety relief valves and the condenser. At 1:13 p.m., the three pressure relief valves were forcibly opened as the hydrostatic head pressure of the raffinate built to over above atmospheric pressure. With the relief valves fully open, over of heated raffinate passed directly into the collection header over a 6-minute period before closing, as pressure in the system dropped to their closing or blowdown pressure of above atmospheric pressure.\n\nInvestigating this pressure spike, the Day Board Operator fully opened the level control valve to the heavy raffinate storage tank and shut off the gas fueling the furnace, but the raffinate feed into the splitter tower was not shut off. Hot raffinate flowed into the blowdown drum and stack, and as it filled, some of the fluid started to flow into the ISOM unit sewer system via a pipeline at the base of the blowdown drum. However, the high level alarm for the blowdown drum didn't sound. As the blowdown drum and stack filled up, hot raffinate shot out of the top of the stack and into the air, forming a \"geyser\". The hot raffinate rained down on the ground, ran down the side of the blow-down drum and stack, and pooled at the base of the unit. A radio call was received in the control room that hot hydrocarbons were overflowing from the stack. A diesel pick-up truck, with its engine left idling, had been carelessly parked about from the blowdown stack; the vapor cloud reached the vehicle, and hydrocarbon fumes were drawn into the engine's air intake, causing the engine to race. Nearby workers frantically tried to shut down the engine, without success. The expanding vapor cloud forced the workers who were trying to shut down the overspeeding truck engine to retreat. The cloud continued to spread across the ISOM plant, across the pipe-rack to the west and into the trailer area unimpeded. No emergency alarm sounded, and at approximately 1:20 p.m., the vapor cloud was ignited by a backfire seen from the overheating truck engine by nearby witnesses, producing a massive explosion that was heard for miles. The blast pressure wave struck the contractor trailers, completely destroying or severely damaging many of them. The explosion sent debris flying, instantly killing 15 people in and around the trailers and severely injuring 180 others. The pressure wave was so powerful it blew out windows off site up to away. An area estimated at of the refinery was badly burned by the subsequent fire that followed the violent explosion, damaging millions of dollars worth of refinery equipment. The entire ISOM unit was severely damaged by the explosion and subsequent fire, and as a result, remained out of operation for more than 2 years.\n\nBP's in-house experts as well as various authorities and committees investigated the explosion in relation to technical, organizational, and safety culture aspects. The results of the technical investigation of a team of BP-experts were summarized in the so-called Mogford report, the findings with regard to the organizational aspects and the responsibility of management in the so-called Bonse report. The U.S. Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board examined both the technical aspects and the responsibility of the supervisory authorities. The Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) reviewed in the aftermath the compliance in relation to the various legal requirements.\n\nOrganizational failings included corporate cost-cutting, a failure to invest in the plant infrastructure, a lack of corporate oversight on both safety culture and major accident prevention programs, a focus on occupational safety and not process safety, a defective management of change process (which allowed the siting of contractor trailers too close to the ISOM process unit), the inadequate training of operators, a lack of competent supervision for start-up operations, poor communications between individuals and departments and the use of outdated and ineffective work procedures which were often not followed. Technical failings included a blowdown drum that was of insufficient size, a lack of preventative maintenance on safety critical systems, inoperative alarms and level sensors in the ISOM process unit and the continued use of outdated blowdown drum and stack technology when replacement with the safer flare option had been a feasible alternative for many years.\n\nA team of experts led by John Mogford, the Senior Group Vice President, Safety and Operations, examined the technical aspects of the explosion and suggested corrective actions. On December 9, 2005, BP published this accident investigation report. The report identified as main causes four critical factors. Without those factors, the event would not have happened or would have had a considerably lower impact. The factors included the unintentional release of substance, the operating instructions as well as their compliance with the commissioning of the rectification column, the work control policies, and the structure of the trailers and the design of the blow out vessel.\n\nAnother internal team, led by BP Group's European head , investigated the level of compliance by plant managers with BP's management framework and corporate code of conduct. The final reportwhich was only released to the public after a court ordered it on May 3, 2007identified numerous management failures. It further noted that management responsibilities within BP Group were unclear, and that the poor state of the plant equipment and the insufficiency of spending on maintenance were contributing factors to the accident.\n\nGiven the extent of the disaster the U.S. Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board examined both the safety management in the Texas City refinery and the role of the BP Group as well as the role of the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) as a regulatory body. The results of the investigation of the agency were published in a three hundred page long report on 20 March 2007.\n\nThe CSB found that organizational and safety deficiencies at all organizational levels of BP contributed to the refinery explosion, such as cost cuts and spending cuts in the safety area, although a large part of the refinery infrastructure and process equipment were in poor condition. In addition, the committee said that BP had cut the budget for training and reduced staff. Furthermore, the CSB found that OSHA had as supervising authority failed to carry out planned inspections of the refinery and did not enforce safety rules, although there were many warning signs. After the explosion, OSHA found 301 violations of requirements and imposed a fine of US$21 million. The CSB found that only a limited number of OSHA inspectors received the specialized training and experience necessary for complex investigations in refineries.\n\nThe CSB issued a recommendation to develop a guideline for understanding, recognizing and dealing with fatigue during shift work. The directive API Recommended Practice 755 provided guidance for refineries, petrochemical and chemical plants and other facilities on how to deal with fatigue syndromes (Fatigue Risk Management System, FRMS). These guidelines include recommendations for work on rotating shifts, such as for the maximum number of overtime hours and the number of days to be worked on without interruption.\n\nThe CSB report found BP had failed to heed or implement safety recommendations made before the blast. Among them were:\n\nAs a result of the accident, BP said that it would eliminate all blowdown drums/vent stack systems in flammable service. The CSB, meanwhile, recommended to the American Petroleum Institute that guidelines on the location of trailers be made.\n\nOSHA ultimately found over 300 safety violations and fined BP US$21 million — the largest fine in OSHA history at the time.\n\nBP was charged with criminal violations of federal environmental laws, and has been named in lawsuits from the victims' families. The Occupational Safety and Health Administration gave BP a record fine for hundreds of safety violations, and in 2009 imposed an even larger fine after claiming that BP had failed to implement safety improvements following the disaster.\n\nOn February 4, 2008, U.S. District Judge Lee Rosenthal heard arguments regarding BP's offer to plead guilty to a federal environmental crime with a US$50 million fine. At the hearing, blast victims and their relatives objected to the plea, calling the proposed fine \"trivial\". So far, BP has said it has paid more than US$1.6 billion to compensate victims. The judge gave no timetable on when she would make a final ruling.\n\nThe case of Eva Rowe, a young woman who lost her parents in the explosion, attracted nationwide attention. She let it be known that she would not accept a settlement and would drag the group to justice. Ed Bradley, a well-known American journalist who made history in the television magazine 60 Minutes, published her case.\n\nOn 9 November 2006 BP settled the case with Rowe as the last applicant after her lawyers had tried to invite John Browne as witnesses. The amount of compensation for Eva Rowe remained unknown. BP also paid US$32 million to universities and hospitals nominated by Rowe including the Mary Kay O'Connor Process Safety Center at Texas A&M University, the University of Texas Medical Branch in Galveston, the Truman G. Blocker Adult Burn Unit and the College of the Mainland in Texas City. Furthermore, BP published about seven million pages of internal documents, including the Telos and Bonse report.\n\nOn October 30, 2009, OSHA imposed an US$87 million fine on the company for failing to correct safety hazards revealed in the 2005 explosion. In its report, OSHA also cited over 700 safety violations. The fine was the largest in OSHA's history, and BP announced that it would challenge the fine.\n\nOn August 12, 2010, BP announced that it had agreed to pay US$50.6 million of the October 30 fine, while continuing to contest the remaining US$30.7 million; the fine had been reduced by US$6.1 million between when it was levied and when BP paid the first part.\n\nAfter the March explosion, other safety incidents occurred at the plant:\nThe CSB found that BP had not informed the maintenance contractor that the elbows were different, and the maintenance contractor had not used any procedure (such as tagging) to ensure that the elbows were re-installed into their original locations.\n\nFollowing the 2005 incidents, on August 17, 2005, the CSB recommended that BP commission an independent panel to investigate the safety culture and management systems at BP North America. The panel was led by former U.S. Secretary of State James Baker III. The Baker panel report was released on January 16, 2007.\n\nThe Baker report cited a weak safety culture, and reported that BP did not adequately follow the Department of Energy's published safety recommendations. The report suggested that cost-cutting and production pressure from BP executives may have resulted in a lack of needed safety measures across the board. Carolyn W. Merritt, chairman and chief executive officer of the CSB stated, \"The combination of cost-cutting, production pressures, and failure to invest caused a progressive deterioration of safety at the refinery. Beginning in 2002, BP commissioned a series of audits and studies that revealed serious safety problems at the Texas City refinery, including a lack of necessary preventive maintenance and training. These audits and studies were shared with BP executives in London, and were provided to at least one member of the executive board. BP's response was too little and too late. Some additional investments were made, but they did not address the core problems in Texas City. In 2004, BP executives challenged their refineries to cut yet another 25% from their budgets for the following year.\" In addition, safety improvements between 2002 and 2005 were \"largely focused on personal safety — such as slips, trips, falls, and vehicle accidents, rather than on improving safety performance,\" according to Supervisory Investigator Don Holstrom.\n\nAdditionally, the panel created and administered, to all five of BP's North American refineries, an employee survey focusing on various aspects of \"process safety\". From the survey results, they concluded that the Toledo and Texas City, Texas plants had the worst process safety culture, while the Cherry Point Refinery, located in Birch Bay, Washington, had the best process safety culture. The survey results also showed that managers and white-collar workers generally had a more positive view of the process safety culture at their plants when compared with the viewpoint of blue-collar operators and maintenance technicians. The director of the Cherry Point refinery was promoted to oversee better implementation of process safety at BP.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2132650", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2132650", "title": "List of former Disney California Adventure attractions", "text": "List of former Disney California Adventure attractions\n\nDisney California Adventure is the second theme park built at the Disneyland Resort in Anaheim, California, United States. This is a list of attractions – rides, shows, and parades – that have appeared at the park but have permanently closed. Character meets and atmosphere entertainment (e.g., roving musicians) are not listed.\n\n 2001–2011, Sunshine Plaza: Sunshine Plaza, originally Entry Plaza, was one of the park's original four themed areas. Located at the entrance of the park, Sunshine Plaza was a collection of stores and food service locations. It included an abstract theme meant to evoke the feeling of stepping into a giant postcard. Outside the park's entrance gates were three-dimensional sculptures of letters which spelled out \"CALIFORNIA\". Giant tile mosaic murals resembling scenes from California lined both sides of the park entrance. A replica of the Golden Gate Bridge served as a façade for the Disneyland Monorail track. The south end of the plaza featured a large sun icon sculpture with a fountain beneath it, which splashed water in a manner reminiscent of ocean waves. Reflectors located around the plaza would reflect real sunlight into the sun icon causing it to gleam in the daytime. The west side of the plaza included a non-functioning replica of the \"California Zephyr\" which housed two food service locations. The park's daily parades originally began on the east side of the sun icon.\n\nIn 2011, the Sunshine Plaza was closed, renovated, and completely remodeled as part of the park's 2007–2012 redesign and renovation. The California Zephyr locomotive was removed and donated to the Western Pacific Railroad Museum in Portola, California. The sun icon was donated to the city of Anaheim for future use. The \"CALIFORNIA\" letters were donated to Friends of the California State Fair, a nonprofit organization, and currently sit at the entrance to the CalExpo fairgrounds. The area reopened in 2012 as Buena Vista Street, a representation of Los Angeles in the 1930s. The buildings that housed Sunshine Plaza's stores and restaurants still house stores and restaurants under the present theme, while the sun plaza is now the site of a replica of the Carthay Circle Theater, which houses a restaurant.\n\nHollywood Land was known as Hollywood Pictures Backlot from 2001–2012.\n\n\n\n\nAttractions closed while part of Golden State include:\n\nCondor Flats was originally one of the sub-areas of Golden State. It was themed to a desert airfield and testing facility, and it celebrated California's aeronautic history. It became its own land in the park in 2012. It closed in 2015 to become the Grizzly Peak Airfield, a new subarea of Grizzly Peak.\n\nGrizzly Peak was originally one of the sub-areas of Golden State. It became its own land in 2012. In 2015, Condor Flats closed and became the Grizzly Peak Airfield, a sub-area of Grizzly Peak.\n\nCars Land opened in June 2012. Inspired by the 2006 Disney·Pixar film \"Cars\", it is a 12-acre land that recreates the town of Radiator Springs from the film. The land includes rides, shops, and restaurants.\n\nAs part of the park's $1.1 billion expansion, the land known as Paradise Pier from January 8, 2001 to June 22, 2018 was renovated and rethemed from a modern seaside amusement park reminiscent of the Santa Monica Pier, to a late 1920s Victorian era seaside boardwalk. Many attractions, shops, and restaurants were either removed or rethemed. The original Route 66 section of Paradise Pier was rethemed to fit the new look of the area, with the Route 66 theme being retired. Again, many of the attractions were rethemed when the land became Pixar Pier on June 23, 2018. Part of this Land was renamed Paradise Gardens Park on June 22, 2018.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2132661", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2132661", "title": "Actroid", "text": "Actroid\n\nActroid is a type of android (humanoid robot) with strong visual human-likeness developed by Osaka University and manufactured by Kokoro Company Ltd. (the animatronics division of Sanrio). It was first unveiled at the 2003 International Robot Exhibition in Tokyo, Japan. Several different versions of the product have been produced since then. In most cases, the robot's appearance has been modeled after an average young woman of Japanese descent.\n\nThe Actroid woman is a pioneer example of a real machine similar to imagined machines called by the science fiction terms \"android\" or \"gynoid\", so far used only for fictional robots. It can mimic such lifelike functions as blinking, speaking, and breathing. The \"Repliee\" models are interactive robots with the ability to recognize and process speech and respond in kind.\n\nInternal sensors allow Actroid models to react with a natural appearance by way of air actuators placed at many points of articulation in the upper body. Early models had 42 points of articulation, later models have 47. So far, movement in the lower body is limited. The operation of the robot's sensory system in tandem with its air powered movements make it quick enough to react to or fend off intrusive motions, such as a slap or a poke. Artificial intelligence gives it the ability to react in a different way to more gentle kinds of touch, such as a pat on the arm.\n\nThe Actroid can also imitate human-like behavior with slight shifts in position, head and eye movements and the appearance of breathing in its chest. Additionally, the robot can be \"taught\" to imitate human movements by facing a person who is wearing reflective dots at key points on their body. By tracking the dots with its visual system and computing limb and joint movements to match what it sees, this motion can then be \"learned\" by the robot and repeated.\n\nThe skin is composed of silicone and appears highly realistic. The compressed air that powers the robot's servo motors, and most of the computer hardware that operates the A.I., are external to the unit. This is a contributing factor to the robot's lack of locomotion capabilities. When displayed, the Actroid has always been either seated or standing with firm support from behind.\n\nThe interactive Actroids can also communicate on a rudimentary level with humans by speaking. Microphones within those Actroids record the speech of a human, and this sound is then filtered to remove background noise - including the sounds of the robot's own operation. Speech recognition software is then used to convert the audio stream into words and sentences, which can then be processed by the Actroid's A.I. A verbal response is then given through speakers external to the unit.\n\nFurther interactivity is achieved through non-verbal methods. When addressed, the interactive Actroids use a combination of \"floor sensors and omnidirectional vision sensors\" in order to maintain eye contact with the speaker. In addition, the robots can respond in limited ways to body language and tone of voice by changing their own facial expressions, stance and vocal inflection.\n\nThe original Repliee Q1 had a \"sister\" model, Repliee R1, which is modeled after a 5-year-old Japanese girl.\n\nMore advanced models were present at Expo 2005 in Aichi to help direct people to specific locations and events. Four unique faces were given to these robots. The ReplieeQ1-expo was modeled after a presenter for NHK news. To make the face of the Repliee Q2 model, the faces of several young Japanese women were scanned and the images combined into an average composite face.\n\nThe newer model Actroid-DER2 made a recent tour of U.S. cities. At NextFest 2006, the robot spoke English and was displayed in a standing position and dressed in a black vinyl bodysuit. A different Actroid-DER2 was also shown in Japan around the same time. This new robot has more realistic features and movements than its predecessor.\n\nIn July 2006, another appearance was given to the robot. This model was built to look like its male co-creator, roboticist Hiroshi Ishiguro, and named Geminoid HI-1. Controlled by a motion-capture interface, Geminoid HI-1 can imitate Ishiguro's body and facial movements, and it can reproduce his voice in sync with his motion and posture. Ishiguro hopes to develop the robot's human-like presence to such a degree that he could use it to teach classes remotely, lecturing from home while the Geminoid interacts with his classes at Osaka University.\n\nIn May 2011 a Danish Lector, Henrik Schärfe, revealed a robotic version of himself. Manufactured in Japan and called a Geminoid-DK, its actions are controlled remotely by a person operating a computer, but it is programmed with Schärfe's own unique body movements, such as shrugs and glances.\n\nA precedent for this type of humanoid robot is in the Audio-Animatronics exhibit \"Great Moments with Mr. Lincoln\" presented at the State of Illinois Pavilion at the 1964 New York World's Fair created by WED Enterprises and appearing again soon thereafter at Disneyland. The device used pneumatics and hydraulics for movement and silicone based skin. The Lincoln figure could rise from his chair and gesture while speaking.\n\n"}
{"id": "2132666", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2132666", "title": "Jo Kondo", "text": "Jo Kondo\n\nJō Kondō (近藤譲; surname Kondō; born 28 October 1947 in Tokyo, Japan) is a Japanese composer of contemporary classical music.\n\nKondo studied composition from 1968 to 1972 with Yoshio Hasegawa and Hiroaki Minami at the Tokyo National University of Fine Arts and Music. He won the third prize and made his debut in Japan-Germany Contemporary Music Festival in 1969. He serves as Professor of Music at Ochanomizu University in Tokyo and also teaches at Tokyo University of Arts and Elisabeth University of Music in Hiroshima.\n\nHis interests include hocket, the music of Ancient Greece, and strong differences in instrumental timbre, all of which are reflected in his compositions. The chamber version of his 1975 composition \"Sight Rhythmics\" reflects the latter in its unusual instrumentation of violin, banjo, steel drum, electric piano, and tuba, for example. His opera \"Hagoromo\", based on a Noh play and premiered in Florence in 1994, is the unique case in which his music blends western techniques with oriental traditions. In 1978 he spent a year in New York City with a grant from the Rockefeller Foundation. While there, he became personally acquainted with a number of avant-garde American composers, including John Cage and especially Morton Feldman.\n\nKondo's music has been performed by the London Sinfonietta, the Philharmonia Orchestra, the NHK Symphony Orchestra, the Arditti Quartet, NEXUS, the Balanescu Quartet, Aki Takahashi and the Birmingham Contemporary Music Group.\n\nKondo's works have been recorded on the Hat Art, ALM, Fontec, and Deutsche Grammophon labels. His scores are published by the University of York Music Press and Edition Peters.\n\nHis notable students include Linda Catlin Smith and Paul Newland. Kondo was associated with John Cage in the 1970s.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2132699", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2132699", "title": "Loyce Biira Bwambale", "text": "Loyce Biira Bwambale\n\nLoyce Biira Bwambale is a former member of the Pan-African Parliament from Uganda.\n\nShe had been a teacher, and also served as Deputy Minister of Gender from 1992 to 1994 and a member of the National Assembly of Uganda from 1996 to 2001.\n\nShe was acting prime minister for the subnational kingdom of Rwenzururu and a Member of Parliament for Kasese District from 1989 to 2006 before she joined the Rwenzururu kingdom as the first Deputy Prime Minister in 2010.\n\nLoyce Biira Bwambale was born in Kasese District in the western part of Uganda in 1952. She completed her Primary School from Bwera Primary School, in Bwera in 1967. During 1968 through 1971, she attended Kyebambe Girls Secondary School from S1 to S4. From 1972 to 1974, she studied for her S5 and S6 at Nabumali High School.\n\nFrom 1974 through 1977, she attended Makerere University, where she obtained her first degree, the BSC [Botany & Zoology] (Hon) with a Diploma in Education (first Class).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2132715", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2132715", "title": "Fulvio Caldini", "text": "Fulvio Caldini\n\nFulvio Caldini (born 1959) is an Italian composer, pianist and musicologist. Since the 1980s, he has created a large body of works, which are generally composed according to minimalist principles, showing particular influence from the music of Steve Reich. Caldini has a preference for wind instruments (particularly double reeds) in his compositions, frequently writing for his brother Sandro Caldini, who plays the oboe, oboe d'amore and cor anglais (English horn).\n\nCaldini's music is published by Bèrben Edition, Flautando Edition and Moeck Verlag.\n"}
{"id": "2132738", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2132738", "title": "Sandro Caldini", "text": "Sandro Caldini\n\nSandro Caldini is an Italian oboist and the brother of the Italian composer Fulvio Caldini, whose works he frequently performs.\n\nIn addition to the oboe, Caldini also plays the oboe d'amore and cor anglais.\n\n"}
{"id": "2132754", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2132754", "title": "Malcolm W. Martin Memorial Park", "text": "Malcolm W. Martin Memorial Park\n\nMalcolm W. Martin Memorial Park is a park on the east side of the Mississippi River in East St. Louis, Illinois, directly across from the Gateway Arch and the city of St. Louis, Missouri. Its major feature is the Gateway Geyser, a fountain that lifts water up to . The Gateway Geyser is a counterpart to the equally tall Gateway Arch, and is visible from the west side of the river to the right of the prominent Cargill grain elevator. Four smaller fountains around the Geyser represent the four rivers which converge near the two cities: The Mississippi, Missouri, Illinois, and Meramec. The park also includes an elevated viewing point overlooking the river.\n\nArch designer Eero Saarinen conceptualized a memorial touching both banks of the Mississippi River, but funding was not provided for the east side as the extensive Gateway Arch National Park (then known as the Jefferson National Expansion Memorial) took shape in St. Louis, of which the Arch is the most prominent element. One of the many supporters of the 1947 effort to fund that landmark was St. Louis attorney Malcolm W. Martin. After two decades without development on the Illinois side, Martin founded the Gateway Center of Metropolitan St. Louis to fund land acquisition for a park there, in 1968. He headed a federal committee in 1987 planning its design, and won an award for his work the following year.\n\nMartin came home to St. Louis after graduating from Yale in 1933 to get his law degree from St. Louis City College of Law. He left for Europe in World War II and contributed to the Normandy D-Day invasion. Upon his second return to St. Louis, he became involved in many aspects of the community, including as a member of the St. Louis Board of Education and a founder of the area's PBS affiliate.\n\nWork began with the installation of a 100-foot (30 m) flagpole, shortly after Gateway Center purchased the site from Illinois Central Railroad. The fountain first gushed on May 27, 1995, with Martin at the switch, and when he died in 2004, he left $5 million for the addition of the Mississippi River Overlook and completion of the park. On June 17, 2005, ownership of the site was transferred to the Metro East Park and Recreation District, and the park officially opened in June 2009. Gateway Center continues to pay for the park, but MEPRD owns and maintains it.\n\nThe overlook platform provides scenic views of the St. Louis Arch and city skyline, the river, and the fountain. It officially opened June 6, 2009.\n\nThe geyser has one scheduled eruption every day from May 1 to September 30. Each eruption lasts 10-minutes and is dependent on wind, weather, and drought conditions. The Gateway Geyser hibernates October through April.\n\nThe Gateway Geyser was designed and constructed by St. Louis–based Hydro Dramatics. Three 800-horsepower (600 kW) pumps power the fountain, discharging 7,500 U.S. gallons of water per minute (50 L/s) at a speed of per second. The fountain has an axial thrust of 103,000 pounds-force (460 kN); water is jetted out of the -tall aerated nozzle at a pressure of 550 pounds per square inch (3.8 MPa). The four smaller fountains use 125-horsepower pumps, and each is fed by water from an 8-acre (3.2 ha), million-gallon (3.8m l) lake in which they sit. The Geyser has an electronic system that shuts it down when winds exceed 13 miles per hour (20.9 km/hr).\n\nThe Overlook is a five-tiered rising walkway that culminates in a platform above the bank of the river. It is made of concrete and steel, with lighted railings on all sides. A bronze statue of Martin is sitting at the top, facing the view of the Arch that he helped preserve. A live web camera provides constant access to the scene. The statue was designed by St. Louis sculptor Harry Weber.\n\n"}
{"id": "2132772", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2132772", "title": "Mobile Telephone Service", "text": "Mobile Telephone Service\n\nThe Mobile Telephone Service (MTS) was a pre-cellular VHF radio system that linked to the Public Switched Telephone Network (PSTN). MTS was the radiotelephone equivalent of land dial phone service.\n\nThe Mobile Telephone Service was one of the earliest mobile telephone standards. It was operator assisted in both directions, meaning that if one were called from a land line the call would be routed to a mobile operator, who would route it to one's phone. Similarly, to make an outbound call one had to go through the mobile operator, who would ask for the mobile number and the number to be called, and would then place the call.\n\nThis service originated with the Bell System, and was first used in St. Louis on June 17, 1946. The original equipment weighed , and there were initially only 3 channels for all the users in the metropolitan area, later more licenses were added bringing the total to 32 channels across 3 bands (See IMTS frequencies). This service was used at least into the 1980s in large portions of North America. On October 2, 1946, Motorola communications equipment carried the first calls on Illinois Bell Telephone Company's new car radiotelephone service in Chicago. Due to the small number of radio frequencies available, the service quickly reached capacity.\n\nMTS was replaced by Improved Mobile Telephone Service (IMTS), introduced in 1964.\n\nMTS uses 25 VHF radio channels in the United States and Canada. The channels are identified by pairs of letters taken from positions on a North American telephone dial that, when changed to digits, form (for 12-channel mobile sets) 55, 57, 95 and 97. \n\nIn the 1960s plan, the VHF high-band allocations provided for 11 channels in the United States: JL, YL, JP, YP, YJ, YK, JS, YS, YR, JK and JR. In Canada, two additional channels were available: JJ and JW. \n\nThese channels are prone to network congestion and interference since a radio closer to the terminal will sometimes take over the channel due to having a more powerful signal. The service uses technology that has been manufacturer discontinued for more than three decades.\n\nThe driver for replacement in most of North America, particularly large cities, was congestion, the inability of the network to carry more than two dozen channels in a geographic area. Cellular service resolved this congestion problem very effectively, especially since cellular frequencies, typically UHF, do not reach as far as VHF frequencies and can therefore be reused. The ability of a cellular system to use signal strength to choose channels and split cells into smaller units also helps expand channel capacity.\n\nThe driver for replacement in remote areas, however, is not network congestion, but obsolescence. Because the equipment is no longer manufactured, companies still using the service must struggle to keep their equipment operating, either by cannibalising from retired equipment or improvising solutions. Due to insufficient traffic, cellular is not a cost-effective replacement. Currently, the only viable solution is satellite telephony, as the small number of \"base stations\" which orbit the planet serve large geographic regions as they pass over. Cost, however, has been an issue, and the replacement has become acceptable to VHF mobile customers gradually, as the cost of satellite telephony has been dropping and will continue to drop.\n\nMany MTS frequencies are now used for local paging services. They are only found in some parts of rural North America, having been replaced in most areas by cellular service in the 1980s or later.\n\nAll calls were placed by a suitably equipped telephone operator.\n\nOutgoing calls were placed when the operator connected to a base station (originally using a cord board, but by the 1990s could be done by dialing a code sequence from a TOPS position), then announced the call over the channel (giving the channel's name first), e.g.,\n\nThe page would usually be repeated twice more after a pause. The called party had to have their unit on and the volume set at a level that allowed them to notice a call and then listen to the called number. If the called party heard an incoming call, they would then use the microphone to announce they were receiving the call, and the operator would allow the two parties to speak, monitoring for the end of the call and marking a manual ticket for billing.\n\nThe format of such \"voice-called\" mobile customer numbers varied by jurisdiction. B.C. Tel, for example, used seven-character numbers starting with N or H, a digit (often 1), then five more digits for the individual customer. AGT in Alberta used seven-character numbers.\n\nSoon enough, customer equipment, \"selective call\", was developed that had a built-in circuit that could be programmed to recognize a five-digit code as its own, in a manner similar to IMTS systems and crude compared to cellular phones. The phone company would assign the customer a number and the customer would have it programmed into the set by the phone company or by a dealer.\n\nThe operator would connect to the base station by cord board and key the five-digit number; in the 1990s, phone operators at TOPS positions would key the five digits after dialing the code to initiate the call and then identify the base station; a typical TOPS operator code would consist of a two digit sequence for voice-call or selective call, a three digit sequence for the base station, then the customer number.\n\nThe base station would signal the five digit sequence; any and all radios tuned to that base station would detect the sequence and compare it with their own; if it matched, the unit would signal its user with a bell or buzzer, and the user could then answer and announce the identity of their unit, similar to how a voice-call user would respond.\n\nCalls from mobile units to a base station were started by signaling the operator by pressing the microphone button. The operator would plug into the channel (automated TOPS systems routed the incoming call through the normal queue), announce availability and the channel name, and the customer would identify their mobile number. (Security systems were sometimes adopted later to prevent fraud, by the customer giving a confidential number. In an automated connection to the operator, other radios on the base station could hear the transmission from the station, not what the radio user was transmitting.) The customer would then specify the details of their call, either to another mobile or to a landline number, which the operator would then place. The call was manually ticketed prior to the use of TOPS, and automatically ticketed if the mobile user was automatically connected to the TOPS operator.\n\nVery few companies automated MTS to use TOPS as most were able to discontinue MTS services due to the reasons above: they could not meet the service demand except by switching to cellular. Northwestel was one company still offering MTS that tied the base stations into TOPS.\n\nA variant of MTS used short-wave frequencies, and was known as High Frequency or High Frequency-Single Sideband, so named for using frequencies between 3 and 30 MHz. These services required far fewer base stations and were used to reach distant locations over vast territories. The drawback was that the frequencies were extremely noisy from various interference, and were subject to propagation problems due to time of day, mostly due to the sun's effect on the ionosphere. Northwestel, which discontinued the service shortly after 2000, could not tie this system into TOPS, and had to aurally monitor the channels using speakers to listen for incoming calls.\n\nFor billing purposes, many MTS base stations were identified with a very close-by rate center of an automatic exchange. However, if there was no nearby rate center, they became an \"Other Place Point\". Phone companies typically identified these, and single points such as an individual telephone in a rural area, using a six-digit combination of 88T-XXX, where T is a digit from 6 to 9, and X is any digit 0-9. For example, Fox Lake, Yukon Territory, was 889-949. This combination would serve the same purpose as the NANP area code and central office code, with its own latitudinal-longitudinal coordinates, to allow a distance to be calculated for rating of a call. This coding system, which was in its zenith of usage during the 1980s and 1990s, was rendered unusable when the North American Numbering Plan administrator withdrew the 88X codes for future use as toll free (e.g. 1-800-) services. \n\nBy the end of the 1990s, very few companies still had need of the Other Place Point codes, and other rating arrangements were made. For example, Northwestel would use the nearest exchange for calls to its mobile points from other phone companies, and would code the locations in its billing software for calls within the company's operating territory. The rate impact was negligible for calls over longer distances.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2132774", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2132774", "title": "Nick Collins", "text": "Nick Collins\n\nNicholas Cordell Collins (born August 16, 1983) is a former American football safety who played seven seasons for the Green Bay Packers of the National Football League (NFL). He played college football at Bethune-Cookman, and was drafted by the Packers in the second round of the 2005 NFL Draft. Collins led the league in interceptions returned for touchdown and interception return yards in the 2008 season. In Super Bowl XLV, he intercepted Ben Roethlisberger for a touchdown as the Packers beat the Pittsburgh Steelers, 31-25.\n\nIn 2011, Collins suffered a career-ending neck injury during a game against the Carolina Panthers. He was officially released by the Packers in 2012, and formally announced his retirement in 2014. Collins was inducted into the Green Bay Packers Hall of Fame in 2016.\n\nCollins was a diverse athlete during his high school career. He attended Dixie County High School in Cross City, Florida, and lettered twice as a quarterback, running back and defensive back. Collins was also given first-team all-conference honors and was named team MVP as a senior. Collins also earned two letters as a basketball guard and three letters as a center fielder in baseball.\n\nHe was a student athlete at Bethune-Cookman University in Daytona Beach, Florida, where he played for the Bethune–Cookman Wildcats football team.\n\nIn 2002, Collins spent the majority of the season as a reserve linebacker. He played in all thirteen games of the season, making his first two starts in the final two games of the season at the strong safety position. Collins finished the season with 35 tackles (22 solo), one interception, five defended passes, one fumble recovery and eight kickoff returns for 181 yards. His strongest statistical performance of the season was an eight-tackle game in his first start, against Florida A&M University, on November 23.\n\nCollins became a full-time starter at free safety for the Bethune-Cookman Wildcats in 2003. He started 11 of the season's 12 games, missing only a November 15 contest against Howard University. Collins had a breakout season in 2003, leading the Mid-Eastern Athletic Conference in interceptions with six and finished third in the conference in passes defended with 13. He also contributed 54 tackles (33 solo), a fumble recovery, and the first defensive touchdown of his college career (intercepting a pass by Norfolk State University quarterback Willie Mitchell and returning it 45 yards for the score). He was an all-conference selection for the season.\n\nAs a senior in 2004, Collins was an Associated Press third-team Division 1-AA All-America selection and first-team All-MEAC honors at the free safety position. He once again led the conference with six interceptions, led his team in solo tackles (34) and passes defended (13), and scored the second and final defensive touchdown of his collegiate career. Collins had an interception in each of the first four games of the 2004 season. He had a memorable performance in the final game of his college career, intercepting FAMU quarterback Ben Dougherty at the Bethune-Cookman 8 yard line with only 1:49 left in regulation, sending the game into overtime and to an eventual 58-52 double overtime Bethune-Cookman victory.\n\nThe Green Bay Packers selected Collins in the second round (51st pick overall) of the 2005 NFL Draft. Collins would become only the second round Bethune-Cookman player to make the Packers roster. Many draft analysts immediately labeled the selection a \"major reach\" by the Packers due to Collins third to fifth round projection. NFL draft experts Mel Kiper Jr. also labeled Collins a reach by the Packers and stated, \"Corner Nick Collins is a good athlete but very raw and was a reach in the second round.\"\n\nOn August 2, 2005, the Green Bay Packers signed Collins to a five-year, $3.76 million contract that includes $896,100 guaranteed and a signing bonus of $361,040.\n\nGreen Bay Packers' GM Ted Thompson drafted Collins in hopes of him eventually becoming the Packers' starting free safety after Darren Sharper vacated the role when he was granted his release and signed with the NFC North rival Minnesota Vikings. Throughout training camp, Collins competed against Earl Little, Arturo Freeman, and Marviel Underwood for a job as a starting safety. Head coach Mike Sherman named Collins the starting free safety to start the regular season, alongside strong safety Mark Roman. \n\nHe made his professional regular season debut and first career start in the Green Bay Packers' season-opener at the Detroit Lions and made one tackle in their 17–3 loss. On November 21, 2005, he collected 11 combined tackles (eight solo), two pass deflections, and made his first career interception off a pass by quarterback Daunte Culpepper during a 20–17 loss to the Minnesota Vikings in Week 11. In Week 15, Collins made a season-high 12 combined tackles (11 solo) and a pass deflection in a 48–3 loss at the Baltimore Ravens. He completed his rookie season in 2005 with a career-high 84 combined tackles (63 solo), seven passes defensed, two forced fumbles, and an interception in 16 games and 16 starts.\n\nOn January 2, 2006, Packers' GM Ted Thompson fired head coach Mike Sherman after the Packers finished with a 4–12 record in 2005. Collins entered training camp slated as the starting free safety. Head coach Mike McCarthy officially named Collins the starter to begin the regular season, opposite starting strong safety Marquand Manuel.\n\nIn Week 2, Collins collected a season-high eight solo tackles in a 34–27 loss to the New Orleans Saints. On December 3, 2006, he recorded a season-high nine combined tackles in the Packers' 38–10 loss to the New York Jets in Week 13. On December 31, 2006, Collins made six solo tackles, a season-high three pass deflections, two interceptions, and scored his first career touchdown in a 26–7 victory at the Chicago Bears in Week 17. He intercepted a pass attempt by quarterback Brian Griese and returned for a 55-yard touchdown in the first quarter. The touchdown marked the first pick six of his career. Collins completed the 2006 season with 80 combined tackles (65 solo), ten pass deflections, three interceptions, two forced fumbles, and a touchdown in 16 games and 16 starts.\n\nHe retained his job as the starting free safety to begin 2007, alongside strong safety Atari Bigby. In Week 2, Collins collected a season-high five solo tackles during a 35–13 victory at the New York Giants. He was inactive, for the first time in his career, for three games (Weeks 11–13) after injuring his knee. He finished the season with 46 combined tackles (40 solo) and five pass deflections in 13 games and 13 starts.\n\nThe Green Bay Packers finished the 2007 season first in the NFC North with a 13–3 record and earned a first round bye and home-field advantage throughout the playoffs. On January 12, 2008, Collins started in his first career playoff game and recorded four solo tackles in the Packers' 42–20 victory against the Seattle Seahawks in the NFC Divisional Round. The following week, he made another four solo tackles as the Packers were eliminated from the playoffs after being defeated 23–20 by the New York Giants in the NFC Championship Game.\n\nHead coach Mike McCarthy retained Collins and Atari Bigby as the starting safeties to start the 2008 season. On September 14, 2008, Collins recorded two combined tackles, a pass deflection, and returned an interception by quarterback Jon Kitna for a 42-yard touchdown in Week 2. In Week 4, Collins made seven combined tackles, broke up a pass, and made an interception in a 31-20 loss at the Tampa Bay Buccaneers. The following week, he collected a season-high eight combined tackles in the Packers' 27–24 loss to the Atlanta Falcons in Week 5. On October 19, 2008, he made a tackle, a season-high two pass deflections, and returned an interception for a 59-yard touchdown in a 28–27 loss at the Minnesota Vikings in Week 7. He intercepted a pass by quarterback Peyton Manning in the third quarter and returned it for the third pick six of his career. On November 9, 2008, Collins recorded two combined tackles, broke up a pass, made an interception, and scored a touchdown during a 28–27 loss to the Minnesota Vikings in Week 10. He scored his touchdown after intercepting a pass by Gus Frerotte and returning it 59-yards. On December 17, 2008, it was announced that Collins was voted to the 2009 Pro Bowl to mark his first Pro Bowl selection of his career.\nCollins ended the season with 72 combined tackles (60 solo), a career-high 15 pass deflections, career-high seven interceptions, three touchdowns, and a forced fumble in 16 games and 16 starts. He led the league with three pick sixes and 295 interception return yards in 2008.\n\nCollins was unsatisfied with his contract for the upcoming season and opted to skip organized team activities, but attended mandatory minicamp.\nOn January 5, 2009, the Green Bay Packers fired defensive coordinator Bob Sanders and five other defensive coaches. The defense failed to hold on to multiple fourth quarter leads throughout 2008 and were the main cause of the Packers finishing with a 6-10 record. The Green Bay Packers' new defensive coordinator, Dom Capers, opted to retain Collins and Bigby as the starting safeties to begin 2009.\n\nOn September 20, 2009, Collins recorded a season-high seven combined tackles and a pass deflection in a 31–24 loss to the Cincinnati Bengals in Week 2. In Week 10, he collected five combined tackles, deflected two passes, and made his first career sack on quarterback Tony Romo during a 17–7 win against the Dallas Cowboys. On December 13, 2009, he made four combined tackles, broke up two passes, and an interception in the Packers' 21–14 victory at the Chicago Bears in Week 14. His interception extended his streak to four consecutive games with an interception. On December 30, 2009, it was announced that Collins was one of three safeties to be named to the NFC roster for the 2010 Pro Bowl. He joined free safety Darren Sharper and strong safety Adrian Wilson. He completed the 2009 season with 53 combined tackles (44 solo), 13 pass deflections, six interceptions, and a sack in 16 games and 16 starts.\n\nThe Green Bay Packers finished second in the NFC North with an 11–5 record and earned a wildcard berth. On January 10, 2010, Collins collected nine solo tackles during a 51–45 overtime loss at the Arizona Cardinals in the NFC Wildcard Game.\n\nOn March 4, 2010, the Green Bay Packers placed the highest possible restricted free agent tender on Collins, to ensure they would be compensated if he signed with another team. Any team that would sign Collins would be required to give a first and third round selection in return. On March 9, 2010, Collins signed his one-year, $3.49 million restricted free agent tender. Collins's agent stated his client chose to immediately sign the contract as a gesture of good faith in possible negotiations for a long-term deal. On March 12, 2010, the Green Bay Packers signed Collins to a four-year, $26.75 million contract that includes $14 million guaranteed and a signing bonus of $4 million.\n\nHead coach Mike McCarthy named Collins the starting free safety to start the 2010 season, opposite rookie strong safety Morgan Burnett. On November 21, 2010, Collins collected a season-high nine combined tackles during a 31–3 win at the Minnesota Vikings in Week 11. On December 28, 2010, Collins was voted to the 2011 Pro Bowl, making it his third consecutive selection. In Week 17, he made three combined tackles, a pass deflection, and intercepted pass by quarterback Jay Cutler 10–3 victory against the Chicago Bears. It marked his second consecutive game with an interception. He completed the 2010 season with 70 combined tackles (59 solo), 12 passes defensed, and four interceptions in 16 games and 16 starts.\n\nThe Green Bay Packers finished second in the NFC North with a 10–6 record and clinched a wildcard berth. The Packers went on to defeat the Philadelphia Eagles 21–16 in the NFC Wildcard Game and earned a 41–22 victory at the Atlanta Falcons in the NFC Divisional Round. On January 23, 2011, Collins recorded seven solo tackles as the Packers won 21–14 at the Chicago Bears in the NFC Championship Game. On February 6, 2011, Collins started in Super Bowl XLV and recorded four solo tackles, a pass deflection, and returned an interception for a touchdown as the Packers defeated the Pittsburgh Steelers to win Super Bowl XLV. He returned an interception by quarterback Ben Roethlisberger for a 37-yard touchdown in the first quarter to give the Packers a 14–0 lead.\n\nCollins and Burnett returned as the starting safety duo to begin the 2011 regular season. He started in the Green Bay Packers' season-opener against the New Orleans Saints and collected a season-high eight combined tackles during a 42-34 victory. On September 18, 2011, Collins was carted off the field on a stretcher in the fourth quarter and was immediately taken to the hospital after sustaining a neck injury while attempting to tackle Panthers running back Jonathan Stewart. Collins went in to make a routine tackle but accidentally drove his head into Stewart's thigh when Stewart lifted his left leg to avoid him. He spent the night at the hospital and returned to Green Bay the next day, where it was announced that Collins would miss the remainder of the 2011 season. Collins had suffered a herniated disk in his neck, and underwent single-level cervical fusion surgery.\n\nOn April 25, 2012, Green Bay decided to release Collins from the team citing concerns about his ability to return to football after suffering such a severe neck injury. On September 28, 2012, Collins' agent, Alan Herman, announced that his neck injury would most likely end his football career. \n\nOn August 20, 2014, Collins officially announced his retirement from the NFL via Twitter.\n\nKey\nCollins and his wife Andrea live in Orlando, Florida. While in college, Collins volunteered at elementary schools and at the YMCA in Daytona Beach. He has also been an instructor at a passing camp for children ages 6 to 15. He has a daughter named Jenajah, and four sons, Nicholas Jr., Nmar'e, Nash, and Nixon.\n\n"}
{"id": "2132775", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2132775", "title": "Mongondow language", "text": "Mongondow language\n\nMongondow, or \"Bolaang Mongondow\", is one of the Philippine languages spoken in Bolaang Mongondow Regency and neighbouring regencies of North Sulawesi (Celebes) and Gorontalo Provinces, Indonesia.\n\nMongondow has the following phoneme inventory:\n\nThe lateral /l/ is pronounced as alveolar when adjacent to the front vowels /e/, /i/. In all other environments, it is a retroflex .\n\nThe personal pronouns are:\n"}
{"id": "2132778", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2132778", "title": "The Art of Cookery Made Plain and Easy", "text": "The Art of Cookery Made Plain and Easy\n\nThe Art of Cookery made Plain and Easy is a cookbook by Hannah Glasse (1708–1770) first published in 1747. It was a bestseller for a century after its first publication, dominating the English-speaking market and making Glasse one of the most famous cookbook authors of her time. The book ran through at least 40 editions, many of them were copied without explicit author consent. It was published in Dublin from 1748, and in America from 1805.\n\nGlasse said in her note \"To the Reader\" that she used plain language so that servants would be able to understand it.\n\nThe 1751 edition was the first book to mention trifle with jelly as an ingredient; the 1758 edition gave the first mention of \"Hamburgh sausages\" and piccalilli, while the 1774 edition of the book included one of the first recipes in English for an Indian-style curry. Glasse criticised French influence of British cuisine, but included dishes with French names and French influence in the book. Other recipes use imported ingredients including cocoa, cinnamon, nutmeg, pistachios and musk.\n\nThe book was popular in the Thirteen Colonies of America, and its appeal survived the American War of Independence, with copies being owned by Benjamin Franklin, Thomas Jefferson and George Washington.\n\n\"The Art of Cookery\" was the dominant reference for home cooks in much of the English-speaking world in the second half of the 18th century and the early 19th century, and it is still used as a reference for food research and historical reconstruction. The book was updated significantly both during her life and after her death.\nEarly editions were not illustrated. Some posthumous editions include a decorative frontispiece, with the caption\n\nSome of the recipes were plagiarised, to the extent of being reproduced verbatim from earlier books by other writers. To guard against plagiarism, the title page of, for example, the sixth edition (1758) carries at its foot the warning \"This BOOK is published with his MAJESTY's Royal Licence; and whoever prints it, or any Part of it, will be prosecuted\". In addition, the first page of the main text is signed in ink by the author.\n\nThe first edition of the book was published by Glasse herself, funded by subscription, and sold (to non-subscribers) at Mrs. Ashburn's China Shop.\n\nThe book has a brief table of contents on the title page, followed by a note \"To the Reader\", and then a full list of contents, by chapter, naming every recipe. There is a full alphabetical index at the back.\n\nGlasse explains in her note \"To the Reader\" that she has written simply, \"for my Intention is to instruct the lower Sort\", giving the example of larding a chicken: she does not call for \"large Lardoons, they would not know what I meant: But when I say they must lard with little Pieces of Bacon, they know what I mean.\" And she comments that \"the great Cooks have such a high way of expressing themselves, that the \"poor Girls\" are at a Loss to know what they mean.\"\n\nAs well as simplicity, to suit her readers in the kitchen, Glasse stresses her aim of economy: \"some Things [are] so extravagant, that it would be almost a Shame to make Use of them, when a Dish can be made full as good, or better, without them.\"\n\nChapters sometimes begin with a short introduction giving general advice on the topic at hand, such as cooking meat; the recipes occupy the rest of the text. The recipes give no indication of cooking time or oven temperature. There are no separate lists of ingredients: where necessary, the recipes specify quantities directly in the instructions. Many recipes do not mention quantities at all, simply instructing the cook what to do, thus:\n\nGlasse set out her somewhat critical views of French cuisine in the book's introduction: \"I have indeed given some of my Dishes \"French\" Names to distinguish them, because they are known by those names; And where there is great Variety of Dishes, and a large Table to cover, so there must be Variety of Names for them; and it matters not whether they be called by a \"French, Dutch, or English\" Name, so they are good, and done with as little Expence as the Dish will allow of.\" An example of such a recipe is \"To à la Daube Pigeons\"; a daube is a rich French meat stew from Provence, traditionally made with beef. Her \"A Goose à la Mode\" is served in a sauce flavoured with red wine, home-made \"Catchup\", veal sweetbread, truffles, morels, and (more ordinary) mushrooms. She occasionally uses French ingredients; \"To make a rich Cake\" includes \"half a Pint of right \"French\" Brandy\", as well as the same amount of \"Sack\" (Spanish sherry).\n\nSuccessive editions increased the number of non-English recipes, adding German, Dutch, Indian, Italian, West Indian and American cuisines. The recipe for \"Elder-Shoots, in Imitation of Bamboo\" makes use of a homely ingredient to substitute for a foreign one that English travellers had encountered in the Far East. The same recipe also calls for a variety of imported spices to flavour the pickle: \"an Ounce of white or red Pepper, an Ounce of Ginger sliced, a little Mace, and a few Corns of Jamaica Pepper.\" \n\nThere are two recipes for making chocolate, calling for costly imported ingredients like musk (an aromatic obtained from musk deer) and ambergris (a waxy substance from sperm whales), vanilla and cardamon:\n\n\"The Art of Cookery\" was a bestseller for a century after its first publication, making Glasse one of the most famous cookbook authors of her time. The book was \"by far the most popular cookbook in eighteenth-century Britain\".\n\nIt was rumoured for decades that despite the byline it was the work of a man, Samuel Johnson being quoted by James Boswell as observing at the publisher Charles Dilly's house that \"Women can spin very well; but they cannot make a good book of cookery.\"\n\nIn her 1754 book \"Professed Cookery\", Glasse's contemporary Ann Cook launched an aggressive attack on \"The Art of Cookery\" using both a doggerel poem, with couplets such as \"Look at the Lady in her Title Page, How fast it sells the Book, and gulls the Age\", and an essay; the poem correctly accused Glasse of plagiarism.\n\n\"The Foreign Quarterly Review\" of 1844 commented that \"there are many good receipts in the work, and it is written in a plain style.\" The review applauds Glasse's goal of plain language, but observes \"This book has one great fault; it is disfigured by a strong anti-Galican [anti-French] prejudice.\"\n\nThe book sold extremely well in the Colonies of North America. This popularity survived the American War of Independence. A New York memoir of the 1840s declared that \"We had emancipated ourselves from the sceptre of King George, but that of Hannah Glasse was extended without challenge over our fire-sides and dinner-tables, with a sway far more imperative and absolute\". The first American edition of \"The Art of Cookery\" (1805) included two recipes for \"Indian pudding\" as well as \"Several New Receipts adapted to the American Mode of Cooking\", such as \"Pumpkin Pie\", \"Cranberry Tarts\" and \"Maple Sugar\". Benjamin Franklin is said to have had some of the recipes translated into French for his cook while he was the American ambassador in Paris. Both George Washington and Thomas Jefferson owned copies of the book.\n\nFood critic John Hess and food historian Karen Hess have commented that the \"quality and richness\" of the dishes \"should surprise those who believe that Americans of those days ate only Spartan frontier food\", giving as examples the glass of Malaga wine, seven eggs and half a pound of butter in the pumpkin pie. They argue that while the elaborate bills of fare given for each month of the year in American editions were conspicuously wasteful, they were less so than the \"interminable\" menus \"stuffed down\" in the Victorian era, as guests were not expected to eat everything, but to choose which dishes they wanted, and \"the cooking was demonstrably better in the eighteenth century.\"\n\nThe book contains a recipe \"To make Hamburgh Sausages\"; it calls for beef, suet, pepper, cloves, nutmeg, \"a great Quantity of Garlick cut small\", white wine vinegar, salt, a glass of red wine and a glass of rum; once mixed, this is to be stuffed \"very tight\" into \"the largest Gut you can find\", smoked for up to ten days, and then air-dried; it would keep for a year, and was \"very good boiled in Peas Porridge, and roasted with toasted bread under it, or in an Amlet\". The cookery writer Linda Stradley in an article on hamburgers suggests that the recipe was brought to England by German immigrants; its appearance in the first American edition may be the first time \"Hamburgh\" is associated with chopped meat in America.\n\nRose Prince, writing in \"The Independent\", describes Glasse as \"the first domestic goddess, the queen of the dinner party and the most important cookery writer to know about.\" She notes that Clarissa Dickson-Wright \"makes a good case\" for giving Glasse this much credit, that Glasse had found a gap in the market, and had the distinctions of simplicity, an \"appetising repertoire\", and a lightness of touch. Prince quotes the food writer Bee Wilson: \"She's authoritative but she is also intimate, treating you as an equal\", and concludes \"A perfect book, then; one that deserved the acclaim it received.\" \n\nThe cookery writer Laura Kelley notes that the 1774 edition was one of the first books in English to include a recipe for curry: \"To make a currey the Indian way.\" The recipe calls for two small chickens to be fried in butter; for ground turmeric, ginger and pepper to be added and the dish to be stewed; and for cream and lemon juice to be added just before serving. Kelley comments that \"The dish is very good, but not quite a modern curry. As you can see from the title of my interpreted recipe, the modern dish most like it is an eastern (Kolkata) butter chicken. However, the Hannah Glasse curry recipe lacks a full complement of spices and the varying amounts of tomato sauce now so often used in the dish.\"\n\nThe cookery writer Sophia Waugh said that Glasse's food was what Jane Austen and her contemporaries would have eaten. Glasse is one of the five female writers discussed in Waugh's 2013 book \"Cooking People: The Writers Who Taught the English How to Eat\".\n\nThe cookery writer Clarissa Dickson Wright calls Glass's curry a \"famous recipe\" and comments that she was \"a bit sceptical\" of this recipe, as it had few of the expected spices, but was \"pleasantly surprised by the end result\" which had \"a very good and interesting flavour\".\n\nThe historian of food Peter Brears said that the book was the first to include a recipe for Yorkshire pudding.\n\nIan Mayes, writing in \"The Guardian\", quotes \"Brewer's Dictionary of Phrase and Fable\" as stating \"\"First catch your hare\". This direction is generally attributed to Hannah Glasse, habit-maker to the Prince of Wales, and author of \"The Art of Cookery made Plain and Easy\"\". Her actual directions are, 'Take your Hare when it is cas'd, and make a pudding...' To 'case' means to take off the skin\" [not \"to catch\"]; Mayes notes further that both the \"Oxford English Dictionary\" and \"The Dictionary of National Biography\" discuss the attribution.\n\n, Scott Herritt's \"South End\" restaurant in South Kensington, London serves some recipes from the book. The \"Nourished Kitchen\" website describes the effort required to translate Glasse's 18th-century recipes into modern cooking techniques.\n\nThe book ran through many editions, including:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2132779", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2132779", "title": "Catherine Dent", "text": "Catherine Dent\n\nCatherine Grace Dent (born April 14, 1965) is an American actress. She is best known for the role of Danielle \"Danny\" Sofer in the FX series \"The Shield\".\n\nDent was born in Baton Rouge, Louisiana, the daughter of Eleanor Brown and Fred C. Dent, a politician. She attended St. Joseph's Academy high school and graduated in 1993 from the North Carolina School of the Arts.\n\nDent began starring in film and television in the early 1990s. Her first feature film was the movie \"Nobody's Fool\" (1994). On television she played Janice Talbert in \"One Life to Live\", and well as made guest appearances on such shows as \"The Pretender\", \"The X-Files\", \"The Invisible Man\", \"\", \"The Sopranos\", \"Frasier\", \"Judging Amy\", \"\", \"Without a Trace\", \"Grey's Anatomy\", \"NCIS\", \"The Mentalist\", and \"Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D.\"\n\nHer big breakthrough role came in 2002, as L.A.P.D. Officer Danielle \"Danni\" Sofer on FX's hit drama \"The Shield\". On film, she appeared in \"Replicant\" (2001), \"The Majestic\" (2001), and \"21 Grams\" (2003).\n\nDent married attorney Peter Eliasberg on March 23, 2002. They have one child.\n"}
{"id": "2132782", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2132782", "title": "Steve Martland", "text": "Steve Martland\n\nSteve Martland (10 October 1954 – 7 May 2013) was an English composer. He curated the Factory Classical label of Factory Records, featuring contemporary British composers.\n\nMartland was born in Liverpool, and studied composition at Liverpool University and in the Netherlands with Louis Andriessen. He worked almost exclusively with artists outside classical institutions—Dutch and American groups, freelance musicians and especially his own Steve Martland Band which tours his music internationally. He also worked with the King’s Singers and Evelyn Glennie for whom he wrote \"Street Songs\". Martland was composer in residence at the ETNA Music Festival in Sicily in 2006 and 2007. His music was published by Schott Music.\n\nUsually amplified, muscular and powerfully rhythmic, his music was extensively choreographed: \"Dance Works\" commissioned and premièred by London Contemporary Dance Theatre has received many new productions around the world, and \"Remix\" was awarded the \"SACD Prize for Video Dance Choreography Music\" after being choreographed for BBC TV by Aletta Collins.\n\nHis \"Principia\" was adopted as the theme music for the BBC radio programme \"The Music Machine\". \"Dance Works\" is also used as the title music for a Dutch TV programme. He also wrote and directed \"A Temporary Arrangement with the Sea\", a film about Louis Andriessen. In August 1998 he collaborated with the band Spiritualized on a project for the Flux Festival in Edinburgh, Scotland.\n\nMartland’s preoccupation with the function of the composer in society was reflected in his commitment to music education. He believed in the educational impact of creativity: \"Creativity is everything that is against what's going on in the world right now. It's to do with tolerance and understanding other people.\" Martland directed many composition projects in schools both at home and abroad and he initiated and ran for many years \"Strike Out\", his own annual composition course for school children.\n\nMartland died in Reading after suffering a heart attack in his sleep, during the night of 6 May 2013, at the age of 58.\n\nIn 2015, composer Tim Benjamin founded the Steve Martland Scholarship for young composers at the Sound and Music Summer School, in honour of his former mentor.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2132789", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2132789", "title": "Canada Command", "text": "Canada Command\n\nCanada Command (CANCOM, ) was one of the four operational commands of the Canadian Forces from 2006 to 2012, responsible for routine domestic and continental operations, such as search and rescue, sovereignty patrol, national security coordination and contingency planning. As an operational formation, Canada Command used resources generated from the three environmental commands of the Canadian Forces: the Royal Canadian Navy, the Canadian Army and the Royal Canadian Air Force. The command was merged into the Canadian Joint Operations Command in October 2012.\n\nCanada Command's primary role was to \"deter, prevent, preempt, and defeat threats and aggression aimed at Canada\". To this end, the command was responsible for assessing and developing national contingency response plans in order to react rapidly at the request of the Government of Canada. It shared resources with the Canadian Operational Support Command (now merged), the Canadian Special Operations Forces Command and to a lesser extent with the Canadian Expeditionary Force Command (also merged), offered a single point of contact for civil authorities, law enforcement agencies and security partners, and maintained a close relationship with the United States Northern Command and the North American Aerospace Defence Command. The command was divided into ten subordinate organizations: six joint task forces (JTFs), three search and rescue regions (SRRs), and a single air component commander (CFACC) responsible for the allocation of air assets to the JTFs. At the national and regional level, Canada Command planned for contingencies, allocated resources for routine domestic and continental operations, and maintained the capacity to deploy military assets in assistance to civil authorities. Canada Command reported directly to the Chief of the Defence Staff and was headed by Lieutenant-General Walter Semianiw, and its senior non-commissioned member was Chief Warrant Officer Michel J.Y. Ouellet, .\n\nNatural disaster or security incident response in Canada is generally the responsibility of local and provincial governments, who may come to require the help of the federal government. In such cases, and at the explicit request of the Minister of Public Safety, Canada Command could allocate military resources to assist civil authorities in humanitarian capacity, and if the \"Emergencies Act\" was activated, in peace enforcement capacity. The command could also be called to coordinate military resources in support of law enforcement and federal agencies as part of an Integrated Security Unit during large national events. This was the case during the 2010 Vancouver Olympics, the 2010 G-8 Huntsville summit and the 2010 G-20 Toronto summit. Routine operations conducted by Canada Command included the deployment of support elements to various Royal Canadian Mounted Police operations, Fisheries and Oceans Canada's Canadian Coast Guard in sea and coastal patrol and the war on drugs in the Caribbean, and Parks Canada in security enforcement and avalanche control. The command was also the main coordinator of joint exercises, such as the annual Operation Nanook, and a multitude of field exercises and manoeuvres. The control and coordination of military resources placed under Canada Command was assumed at the national level and through six regional task forces:\n\nFederal search and rescue (SAR) in Canada is managed by the Department of National Defence's autonomous National Search and Rescue Secretariat in collaboration with a multitude of agencies, among them the Canadian Forces. Using assets generated and maintained by the Royal Canadian Air Force and the civilian Canadian Coast Guard, Canada Command assumed operational control of the primary SAR response providers through three Search and Rescue Regions (SRRs) and their associated coordination centres:\n\nCanada Command was created on 1 February 2006 as part of a restructuring of the Canadian Forces. Prior to the establishment of the command, national contingency and routine operations were carried directly by the three environmental services (Navy, Army, Air Force). The North American ice storm of 1998 and the September 11 attacks showed a need for a more efficient and coherent organization to coordinate military resources with civil authorities and the United States. Since its creation, Canada Command has conducted humanitarian operations in Newfoundland, Quebec, Ontario and Manitoba, in fighting floods, repairing critical infrastructure, recovering drivers stuck in severe winter storms, and conducting evacuation of threatened communities.\n\nIn May 2012, in a major restructuring of the Canadian Forces, Canada Command was merged with the Canadian Expeditionary Force Command and the Canadian Operational Support Command to form the Canadian Joint Operations Command.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2132794", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2132794", "title": "Alec Ross", "text": "Alec Ross\n\nAlexander Ross (15 September 1879 – 25 June 1952), generally known as Alec Ross and sometimes as Alex or Aleck, was a Scottish professional golfer. He was a native of Dornoch and learned his golf in his home country, but like many British professional golfers of his era he spent many years working as a club professional in the United States. While employed by the Brae Burn Country Club, near Boston, he won the 1907 U.S. Open at the St. Martin's course at Philadelphia Cricket Club. He competed in the U.S. Open seventeen times in total, and finished in the top-10 five times. His other tournament wins include the North and South Open six times (1902, 1904, 1907, 1908, 1910, 1915), the Massachusetts Open six times (1906, 1907, 1908, 1909, 1910, 1912) and the Swiss Open three times (1923, 1925, 1926).\n\nRoss's older brother Donald also moved to the U.S. and was one of the most celebrated of all golf course designers. Alec was the professional at the Detroit Golf Club in Detroit, Michigan for 31 years. He died in Miami, Florida.\n\n\"Note: This list may be incomplete.\"\n\n\"Note: Ross played only in the U.S. Open.\"\n\nNT = No tournament<br>\nDNP = Did not play<br>\nCUT = missed the half-way cut<br>\n\"T\" indicates a tie for a place<br>\nGreen background for wins. Yellow background for top-10\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2132796", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2132796", "title": "Tom Gildea", "text": "Tom Gildea\n\nThomas Gildea (born September 1939) is a former Irish politician who was elected as an independent Teachta Dála (TD) at the 1997 general election.\n\nA farmer representing Donegal South-West, he won popular local support for his campaign to legalise 'deflectors' which re-transmitted British television channels in rural areas, but which had been shut down in the wake of legal action by cable and MMDS operators.\n\nIn the 1999 local elections, he was elected as a member of Donegal County Council for Glenties. He did not contest the 2002 general election and retired from politics at the 2004 local elections.\n\nHe was later Chairman of the National Community Television Association.\n"}
{"id": "2132797", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2132797", "title": "Nan-e-kabab", "text": "Nan-e-kabab\n\nNan-e kabab (Persian: نان كباب) (bread with kabab) is a national dish of Iran. The meal is simple, consisting of kabab, of which there are several Persian varieties, and a type of Persian flat bread (specifically \"nan-e lavash\"). It is served everywhere throughout Iran today, but traditionally was associated with the southern and central parts of the country, and probably originated in the province of Fars.\n\nTraditionally, this dish is restricted to \"kabab koobideh\" (the most common variety of \"nan-e kabab\"), as well as jujeh kabab, \"shish kabab\", \"shishleek\", and \"chenjeh\". \"Kabab barg\" is never used, and is strictly associated with chelow kabab.\n"}
{"id": "2132833", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2132833", "title": "Bréguet 19", "text": "Bréguet 19\n\nThe Breguet 19 (Breguet XIX, Br.19 or Bre.19) was a light bomber and reconnaissance aircraft, also used for long-distance flights, designed by the French Breguet company and produced from 1924.\n\nThe Breguet 19 was designed as a successor to a highly successful World War I light bomber, the 14. Initially, it was designed to be powered by a Bugatti U-16 engine, driving a four-blade propeller, and such a prototype was shown on the 7th Paris Air Show in November 1921. A new design was flown in March 1922, featuring a conventional layout with a single Renault 12Kb inline engine. The aircraft was built in a sesquiplane platform, with lower wings substantially smaller than the upper ones. After trials, the Breguet 19 was ordered by the French Armys \"Aéronautique Militaire\" in September 1923.\n\nThe first 11 Breguet 19 prototypes were powered by a number of different engines. A \"trademark\" of Breguet was the wide usage of duralumin as a construction material, instead of steel or wood. At that time, the aircraft was faster than other bombers, and even some fighter aircraft. Therefore, it met with a huge interest in the world, strengthened by its sporting successes. Mass production, for the \"Aéronautique Militaire\" and export, started in France in 1924.\n\nThe Breguet 19 was a biplane (sesquiplane), conventional in layout, with braced wings. The fuselage, ellipsoid in cross-section, was a frame of duralumin pipes. The front part was covered with duralumin sheets, the tail with canvas. The wings were canvas covered. It had a conventional fixed landing gear with rear skid. The crew of two, pilot and observer/bombardier, sat in tandem in open cockpits, with dual controls.\n\nA wide variety of engine types were fitted, mostly water-cooled V-12 or W-12 inline engines, including the following:\n\nA fixed Vickers machine gun with an interrupter gear was operated by the pilot, while the observer had twin Lewis Guns. There was also a fourth machine gun, which could be fired by the observer downwards through an opening in the floor. The Br.19CN2 night fighter variant was fitted with two pilot's machine guns. The bomber variant could carry up to of bombs under the fuselage, or in a vertical bomb bay (small bombs up to ). The reconnaissance variant could carry 12x bombs. The reconnaissance variant had a camera mounting, which was optional on the bomber variant. All variants had radio.\n\nThe Breguet had its baptism of fire in the Spanish Civil War. \n\nIn the Greco-Italian War of World War II, 18 Breguets were on line at the outbreak of war, with 1 Observation (or Army Cooperation) \"Mira\", under I Corp Command, based at Perigiali, near Corinth and with 2 Observation \"Mira\" under II Corps command, based at Larissa and Kozani.\nOn 4 November 1940, a RHAF (Royal Hellenic Air Force) Breguet from 2 \"Mira\" was sent looking for the attacking 3rd Julia Alpine Division, locating it in a mountain pass near Metsovo. Three more Breguets sent to bomb the Italian division were in turn attacked by three Fiat CR.42 fighters. A Breguet was shot down, one crash-landed and the third returned to base, though badly shot up.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nIn total, more than 2,000 Breguet 19s were manufactured in France, and about 700 license-built by Spanish CASA, Japanese Nakajima, Belgian SABCA and the Yugoslavian aircraft factory in Kraljevo.\n\nIn April 1925, the factory Nakajima Hikoki KK acquired two aircraft from the French Breguet 19 A2, was a versatile aircraft with long-range bombers. Purchase of two aircraft was the work of well-known promoter and promoter of aviation Asahi Shinbun newspaper group. By factory Nakajima Hikoki KK won two planes had been able to fairly detailed knowledge of aircraft structures. At the same time opened negotiations to purchase licensing rights to manufacture, these negotiations were successful. Licensed production will eventually be made, because the Imperial Army Air Force expressed interest in reconnaissance. Nakajima Hikoki KK then immediately changed the wheel all-metal chassis for two floats and the Naval Air Force offered him. The Navy, however, at that time began to receive new aircraft in this category Yokosho Type 14 and also reflected his interest. Nakajima Hikoki KK it still ranked in the competition, the Air Force has called for maritime reconnaissance aircraft with long-range, this contest was ultimately canceled because it failed to accurately formulate long range category. Some time this plane flew again with wheeled undercarriage and civilian designation J-BBFO as a post. Unlike the French Breguet was driven by a powerful engine Nakajima Loriane 2, the French had first Loriane.\n\nBoth standard and modified Breguet 19s were used for numerous record-breaking flights. The first was the Br.19 prototype, which won a military aircraft speed contest in Madrid on 17 February 1923. On 12 March 1923, it also set an international altitude record of carrying a load. It was later bought by the Spanish government.\n\nMany crews made long-distance flights in Br.19s. In February 1925, Thieffry flew from Brussels to Leopoldville in central Africa, a distance of . Two Br.19 A2s were bought by the Japanese Asahi Shimbun newspaper and fitted with additional fuel tanks. They were flown by H. Abe and K. Kawachi on the Tokyo-Paris-London route in July 1925, covering . Between 27 August and 25 September 1926, the Polish crew of Boleslaw Orlinski flew the Warsaw-Tokyo route () and back, in a modified Br.19 A2, despite the fact that one of its lower wings was broken on the way. On June 8, 1928 a modified Greek Br.A2 (\"ΕΛΛΑΣ\"), flown by C. Adamides and E. Papadakos, embarked on a long distance tour around the Mediterranean landing without incident at Tatoi airfield, Athens, on July 1st. Between 1927 and 1930, Romanian, Yugoslavian and Polish Br.19s were often used in Little Entente air races.\n\nBreguet 19 GRs and TRs set several world records, mostly of long-distance non-stop flights, starting with Arrachart and Lemaitre's flight from Paris to Villa Cisneros in 24½ hours on 2–3 February 1925. On 14–15 July 1926, Girier and Dordilly set a new record of between Paris and Omsk, beaten on 31 August-1 September by Challe and Weiser's , and on 28 October by Dieudonne Costes and Rignot's . From 10 October 1927 – 14 April 1928, Costes and Le Brix flew a Br.19 GR (named \"Nungesser-Coli\") around the world, covering - though the journey between San Francisco and Tokyo was taken by ship.\n\nThe Super Bidon was created especially for the purpose of a transatlantic flight. It was named \"Point d'Interrogation\" (\"The Question Mark\"). Dieudonne Costes and Maurice Bellonte set a non-stop distance record of from Paris to Moullart on 27–29 September 1929 on this aircraft. Then on 1–2 September 1930, they flew from Paris to New York City, a distance of making the first non-stop east-west crossing of the North Atlantic by a fixed-wing aircraft. The second Super Bidon, the Spanish Cuatro Vientos, vanished over Mexico with M. Barberan and J. Collar Serra, after a transatlantic flight from Seville to Cuba on 10–11 June 1933.\n\n\nThe Breguet XIX played a central role in Nevil Shute's second published work \"So Disdained\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2132854", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2132854", "title": "Grosbeak", "text": "Grosbeak\n\nGrosbeak is a form taxon containing various species of seed-eating passerine birds with large beaks. Although they all belong to the superfamily Passeroidea, these birds are not part of a natural group but rather a polyphyletic assemblage of distantly related songbirds. Some are cardueline finches in the family Fringillidae, while others are cardinals in the family Cardinalidae; one is a member of the weaver family Ploceidae. The word \"grosbeak\", first applied in the late 1670s, is a partial translation of the French \"grosbec\", where \"gros\" means \"large\" and \"bec\" means \"beak\".\n\nThe following is a list of grosbeak species, arranged in groups of closely related genera. These genera are more closely related to smaller-billed birds than to other grosbeaks. The single exception are the three genera of \"typical grosbeak finches\", which form a group of closest living relatives and might thus be considered the \"true\" grosbeaks.\n\nThe finch family (Fringillidae) contains 13 living species named \"grosbeak\", which are all part of the large subfamily Carduelinae:\n\nTypical grosbeak finches\ngrosbeak bullfinch\ngrosbeak goldfinches\nGenus Crithagra\nTwo species in the genus \"Crithagra\" are named \"grosbeak-canaries\" and one is called a grosbeak:\n\nIn addition, there are two extinct Fringillidae \"grosbeaks\": \n\nThe cardinal family (Cardinalidae) of the Americas contains the following 17 \"grosbeaks\":\nTypical cardinal-grosbeaks\n\nMasked cardinal-grosbeaks\n\nBlue cardinal-grosbeaks\n\nThree additional species of \"grosbeaks\" have long been placed in the Cardinalidae, but actually seem to be closer to the tanager family (Thraupidae):\n\nFinally, the weaver family (Ploceidae) contains a species called the thick-billed weaver (\"Amblyospiza albifrons\").\n"}
{"id": "2132858", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2132858", "title": "New Order Amish", "text": "New Order Amish\n\nThe New Order Amish are a subgroup of Amish that split away from the Old Order Amish in the 1960s for a variety of reasons, which included a desire for \"clean\" youth courting standards, meaning they do not condone the practice of bundling, or non-sexually lying in bed together, during courtship. Tobacco and alcohol are also not allowed. They also wished to incorporate more evangelical elements into the church, including Sunday school and mission work. Some scholars see the group best characterized as a subgroup of Old Order Amish, despite the name.\n\nThe New Order Amish emerged mainly in two regions: Lancaster County, Pennsylvania, and Holmes/Wayne County, Ohio. Waldrep cites a New Order Amish man:\n\nEven though in Waldrep's opinion this seems \"like a simplistic reading\", he states that \"in the final analysis the characterization appears accurate\".\n\nIn 1966, around one hundred families split with the Old Order Amish in Lancaster County, Pennsylvania, over differences related to the use of modern machinery. The collective Lancaster Amish ministry forbade the use of said machinery, but in many districts, the Amish had adapted to the technology. Because of this, the ministry had a difficult time enforcing this ruling. In 1964, the bishops banned four districts from communion for not implementing the larger group’s standards on technology. By February 6, 1966, thirty Amish families, under threat of excommunication, met at the home of Christian F. Flick. There, they organized a separate service where they received communion from a liberal Amish church in Newton, Ontario. In April 1966, sixty-five families had come to associate with Flick’s group. There were three defector districts in Lancaster County by fall of 1967. About one hundred families were split into three districts, one at Honey Brook and two at Gap.\n\nA separate movement developed in Ohio at around the same time. In the early 1960s, a conflict in the Troyer Valley district began the movement of the New Order Amish in Ohio. At the time, only ministers and older Amish members were allowed to greet each other with a kiss. This upset the younger church members, as they wished to practice the “holy kiss” also. A ministerial committee was unable to reach a resolution. In 1966, the Troyer Valley’s bishop requested that minister Levi R. Troyer stop using the kiss to greet the younger brethren. He refused and was sent back from communion. Much like the Lancaster group, the Troyers then went outside of their church and home to find a more suitable church. From 1969-1971, about a dozen Holmes County districts joined the Troyers, headed by Bishop Roy L. Schlabach, for similar reasons.\n\nHolmes County New Orders stood for \"a strong desire to keep the Amish way; to remain Amish, but to promote more spiritual awareness and eliminate questionable practices, such as bundling, tobacco, etc.\" \n\nLike Old Order groups, New Order Amish use horse and buggy, wear plain clothing, speak Pennsylvania German and practice home worship. As with other Amish, technological restrictions include prohibitions on the internet, television, and radio.\n\nAll New Order Amish districts still preserve the traditional Amish dress, although there is a trend towards slimmer brimmed hats and trimmed beards among the men. As for the New Order women, they typically have brighter colors all around. Pennsylvania German is mostly preserved, but there is a tendency to shift to the English language.\n\nNew Order Amish may be more lenient in the practice of shunning and may be more permissive of photography than lower-order groups. They were also known for introducing brighter colored fabrics. New Order Amish prohibit alcohol and tobacco use (seen in some Old Order groups), an important factor in the original division.\n\nDifferent from the Old Order, the New Order actively suppress the use of tobacco and alcohol and do not allow bed courtship (bundling), which was an important factor in the original division. They did eventually allow milkers, balers, propane gas and pneumatic tires. The Lancaster County New Order Amish was different, however, they eventually did permit electricity, what led to the split into two New Order Amish groups, electric and non-electric. The Holmes County New Orders allowed men to trim their beards as well as the hair above their ears. Some New Order Amish permit telephone lines in the home.\n\nThe New Order worship patterns are essentially the same as among the Old Order.\n\nThe New Order Tobe share an unusual mix of progressive and conservative traits. They are progressive in technology but conservative in spirituality and dress. In contrast to other New Order Amish groups, they have a relatively high retention rate of their young people that is comparable to the retention rate of the Old Order Amish.\n\nThere are four different affiliations which are referred to as being \"New Order\": \n\nEspecially in Lancaster County, there is a strong trend among the New Orders to join more progressive churches. In 1994 there were two New Order districts in Lancaster County with about 60 households, by 2004 there was only a single district with 21 households and almost no young people.\n\nCounting all New Order Amish groups there were 3,961 baptized members in 70 congregations with a total population of about 8,912 people in the year 2000.\n\nIn 2008/9 there were about 3,500 baptized members in 58 New Order Amish congregations, while at the same time the New Order Amish Fellowship had 400 baptized members in 7 congregations.\n\nIn 2011 there were 35 non-electric New Order districts and 17 electric ones, whereas Tobe New Order had 5 and the New Order Fellowship 4 church districts. Statistics show that New Order Amish tend to keep a lower percentage of their children in the faith, according to the group about 50 to 65 percent, while Old Orders keep 80 to 95 percent. An exception is the New Order Tobe Amish with a defection rate of only 19.6 percent.\n\nNew Order Amish communities can be found in around a dozen states including Ohio, Pennsylvania, and Indiana, Wisconsin, Michigan, Missouri, New York, Kentucky, Iowa, Illinois, Minnesota, and some others. Their largest population is in the Holmes County, Ohio, settlement.\n\nThere are groups of Amish, considered being \"Old Order\", that allow more technologies than some groups of New Order Amish. According to G.C. Waldrep the Michigan-related Amish churches show many spiritual and material similarities to the New Orders, while they are still technically considered a part of the larger Old Order group. The Groffdale Conference Mennonite Church, the largest Old Order Mennonite group, allows about the same level of technology as New Order Amish groups, while there are technologically very conservative Old Order Mennonite groups, like the Noah Hoover Mennonites, that are as restrictive concerning technologies as the Swartzentruber Amish.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2132859", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2132859", "title": "Image moment", "text": "Image moment\n\nIn image processing, computer vision and related fields, an image moment is a certain particular weighted average (moment) of the image pixels' intensities, or a function of such moments, usually chosen to have some attractive property or interpretation.\n\nImage moments are useful to describe objects after segmentation. Simple properties of the image which are found \"via\" image moments include area (or total intensity), its centroid, and information about its orientation.\n\nFor a 2D continuous function \"f\"(\"x\",\"y\") the moment (sometimes called \"raw moment\") of order (\"p\" + \"q\") is defined as\n\nfor \"p\",\"q\" = 0,1,2...\nAdapting this to scalar (greyscale) image with pixel intensities \"I\"(\"x\",\"y\"), raw image moments \"M\" are calculated by\n\nIn some cases, this may be calculated by considering the image as a probability density function, \"i.e.\", by dividing the above by\n\nA uniqueness theorem (Hu [1962]) states that if \"f\"(\"x\",\"y\") \nis piecewise continuous and has nonzero values only in a finite part of the \"xy\" \nplane, moments of all orders exist, and the moment sequence (\"M\") is uniquely determined by \"f\"(\"x\",\"y\"). Conversely, (\"M\") uniquely determines \"f\"(\"x\",\"y\"). In practice, the image is summarized with functions of a few lower order moments.\n\nSimple image properties derived \"via\" raw moments include:\n\nCentral moments are defined as\n\nwhere formula_7 and formula_8 are the components of the centroid.\n\nIf \"ƒ\"(\"x\", \"y\") is a digital image, then the previous equation becomes\n\nThe central moments of order up to 3 are:\n\nIt can be shown that:\n\nCentral moments are translational invariant.\n\nInformation about image orientation can be derived by first using the second order central moments to construct a covariance matrix.\n\nThe covariance matrix of the image formula_24 is now\n\nThe eigenvectors of this matrix correspond to the major and minor axes of the image intensity, so the orientation can thus be extracted from the angle of the eigenvector associated with the largest eigenvalue towards the axis closest to this eigenvector. It can be shown that this angle Θ is given by the following formula:\n\nThe above formula holds as long as:\n\nThe eigenvalues of the covariance matrix can easily be shown to be\n\nand are proportional to the squared length of the eigenvector axes. The relative difference in magnitude of the eigenvalues are thus an indication of the eccentricity of the image, or how elongated it is. The eccentricity is\n\nMoments are well-known for their application in image analysis, since they can be used to derive invariants with respect to specific transformation classes.\n\nThe term \"invariant moments\" is often abused in this context. However, while \"moment invariants\" are invariants that are formed from moments, the only moments that are invariants themselves are the central moments.\n\nNote that the invariants detailed below are exactly invariant only in the continuous domain. In a discrete domain, neither scaling nor rotation are well defined: a discrete image transformed in such a way is generally an approximation, and the transformation is not reversible. These invariants therefore are only approximately invariant when describing a shape in a discrete image.\n\nThe central moments \"μ\" of any order are, by construction, invariant with respect to translations.\n\nInvariants \"η\" with respect to both translation and scale can be constructed from central moments by dividing through a properly scaled zero-th central moment:\n\nwhere \"i\" + \"j\" ≥ 2.\nNote that translational invariance directly follows by only using central moments.\n\nAs shown in the work of Hu,\ninvariants with respect to translation, scale, and \"rotation\" can be constructed:\n\nformula_31\n\nformula_32\n\nformula_33\n\nformula_34\n\nformula_35\n\nformula_36\n\nformula_37\n\nThese are well-known as \"Hu moment invariants\".\n\nThe first one, \"I\", is analogous to the moment of inertia around the image's centroid, where the pixels' intensities are analogous to physical density. The last one, \"I\", is skew invariant, which enables it to distinguish mirror images of otherwise identical images.\n\nA general theory on deriving complete and independent sets of rotation moment invariants was proposed by J. Flusser. He showed that the traditional set of Hu moment invariants is neither independent nor complete. \"I\" is not very useful as it is dependent on the others. In the original Hu's set there is a missing third order independent moment invariant:\n\nLater, J. Flusser and T. Suk specialized the theory for N-rotationally symmetric shapes case.\n\nZhang et al. applied Hu moment invariants to solve the Pathological Brain Detection (PBD) problem.\nDoerr and Florence used information of the object orientation related to the second order central moments to effectively extract translation- and rotation-invariant object cross-sections from micro-X-ray tomography image data.\n\n"}
{"id": "2132863", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2132863", "title": "Timothy Radcliffe", "text": "Timothy Radcliffe\n\nTimothy Peter Joseph Radcliffe, OP (born 22 August 1945, London) is a Roman Catholic priest and Dominican friar of the English Province, and former Master of the Order of Preachers from 1992 to 2001. He is the only member of the English Province of the Dominicans to have held the office since the Order's foundation in 1216. He is formerly the Director of the Las Casas Institute of Blackfriars, Oxford which focuses on the promotion of Social Justice and Human Rights.\n\nTimothy Radcliffe was born into a Catholic family in London. He studied at Downside School and St John's College, Oxford. He entered the Dominican Order in 1965 and was ordained a priest in 1971.\n\nDuring the mid 1970s Timothy was based at the West London Catholic Chaplaincy at More House, Cromwell Road, London SW7.\nTimothy Radcliffe taught Holy Scripture at Oxford University at Blackfriars, and was elected provincial of England in 1988. In 1992 he was elected Master of the Dominican Order and held that office until 2001. During his tenure as Master, he was ex officio Grand Chancellor of the Pontifical University of Saint Thomas Aquinas, \"Angelicum\" in Rome.\n\nIn 2001, after the expiration of his nine-year mandate as Master of the Dominican order, Timothy Radcliffe took a sabbatical year. Starting in 2002, he became again a simple member of the Dominican community of Oxford and does public speaking.\n\nTimothy Radcliffe occasionally presided at the Mass for gay people at Our Lady of the Assumption, Warwick Street, which Cardinal Murphy O'Connor, the Archbishop of Westminster, recognised as part of the Archdiocese's mission to gay people.\n\nIn 2015 Radliffe was named a consultor to the Pontifical Council for Justice and Peace. This caused controversy due to statements he had made about the \"eucharistic\" dimension of homosexual sexual activity.\nThe American television network EWTN dropped plans to cover an event in Ireland at which he was scheduled to speak because of Radcliffe's participation. A host at the station called Radcliffe's views \"at sharp variance to Catholic teaching.”\n\nRadcliffe had written, “Certainly [homosexual activity] can be generous, vulnerable, tender, mutual, and non-violent. So in many ways, I would think that it can be expressive of Christ's self-gift.\"\n\nIn 2003, Timothy Radcliffe was made an honorary Doctor of Divinity in the University of Oxford, the University's highest honorary degree. The Chancellor of the University of Oxford ended his citation with the following words: \"I present a man distinguished both for eloquence and for wit, a master theologian who has never disregarded ordinary people, a practical man who believes that religion and the teachings of theology must be constantly applied to the conduct of public life: the Most Reverend Timothy Radcliffe, MA, sometime Master of the Dominican Order and Grand Chancellor of the Pontifical University of St Thomas Aquinas, for admission to the honorary degree of Doctor of Divinity.\"\n\nHe was the 2007 winner of The Michael Ramsey Prize for theological writing, for his book \"What Is the Point of Being A Christian?\"\n\nTimothy Radcliffe is Patron of the International Young Leaders Network and helped launch Las Casas Institute, dealing with issues of ethics, governance and social justice. These are both projects of Blackfriars, Oxford.\n\nHe is also Patron of 'Catholic AIDS Prevention and Support', 'Christian Approaches to Defence and Disarmament', and 'Embrace the Middle East', as well as being on the Board of 'Fellowship and Aid to the Church in the East.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2132869", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2132869", "title": "Lionel Cole", "text": "Lionel Cole\n\nLionel Cole is a pianist, songwriter, composer, music editor, music supervisor and public speaker. He has served as a regularly touring member of Mariah Carey's live band. Cole also partnered with Malcolm-Jamal Warner, to create the jazz and funk band \"Miles Long.\" The first album, \"The Many Facets of Superman\", featured En Vogue's Cindy Heron and soul icon Teena Marie. \n\nCole co-wrote with Mariah Carey the \"Billboard\" chart single \"Through the Rain\", which appeared on Carey's ninth studio album \"Charmbracelet\" (2002). The song peaked at number 81 on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 and it hit number 1 on the U.S. sales and dance charts. Previously, Cole remixed the million selling cover single \"Hard To Say I'm Sorry\" by boy band AZ Yet. In 2010, Cole toured with 1980s star Rickie Lee Jones. From a storied musical family, he is the son of Freddy Cole, a Grammy-nominated jazz vocalist, the nephew of Nat King Cole, and the cousin of Natalie Cole.\n\nCole's music work extends into film and television, he composed for the Tim Reid film \"Once Upon a Time...When We Were Colored\" and the Showtime series \"Linc's\".\n\nLionel was born in New York City and grew up in Atlanta, Georgia. He moved to Chicago to study singing at Northwestern University, then moved to Los Angeles. In 1986 & 1987, he traveled with Up With People (Cast 86C).\n\nAfter moving to LA, he worked as a staff composer/music editor with award-winning producer Steve Tyrell on several television projects, including NBC's \"California Dreams\" and \"The Brady Bunch Movie\". Cole moved on to film composing for the highly acclaimed \"Once Upon a Time...When We Were Colored\".\n\nLater he and Malcolm Jamal Warner (Theo from \"The Cosby Show\") partnered to form the jazz/funk band, Miles Long. The Miles Long album \"The Many Facets of Superman\" featured En Vogue's Cindy Herron and soul icon Teena Marie. Cole had many roles on this project as lead singer, pianist and producer. In addition he did a turn as a featured vocalist in John Powell's score for \"The Bourne Identity\" (2002), a two-year stint as band leader on the television series \"Malcolm and Eddie\" and played piano with Ivan Neville and his ensemble.\n\nCole was featured as part of Robert Downey Jr.'s band on \"The Oprah Winfrey Show\", the \"Tonight Show\", \"Ellen\", and \"Good Morning America\".\n\nCole's work with singer Mariah Carey included piano playing on her number 1 single \"Never Too Far Hero\", and co-writing three songs, notably the heartfelt hit \"Through the Rain\" from her multi-platinum album \"Charmbracelet\". One of his proudest moments was arranging \"The Star-Spangled Banner\" for Carey and the Boston Pops at the 2002 Super Bowl following 9/11. He also was featured keyboarding and background singing for Carey's worldwide tour, which played to sold-out audiences. For the past few years Cole's creativity has focused on work with long-time writing partner Randy Jackson (of the television series \"American Idol\").\n\nCole worked on countless projects including the Grammy-nominated Sam Moore (of Sam & Dave) album \"Overnight Sensation\" and the Grammy award-winning remake \"A Family Affair\" with Van Hunt, John Legend, and Joss Stone. That work lead to collaboration on “Walk on By”, with pop prodigy Joss Stone featured on \"Randy Jackson's Music Club Volume 1\". The team also worked on the films produced by Walmart family pictures. 2010 brought a world tour with 1980s icon Rickie Lee Jones as her singer and multi-instrumentalist. This also landed Cole in Sydney, Australia.\n\nHe currently resides in Sydney, Australia, with his family and performs regularly as lead singer with his band \"Cole Soul and Emotion\". In May 2014, he participated in \"The Voice\" on Channel 9, working with coaches Ricky Martin and Kylie Minogue.\n\n"}
{"id": "2132870", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2132870", "title": "Max Lucado", "text": "Max Lucado\n\nMax Lucado (born January 11, 1955) is an American author and pastor at Oak Hills Church (formerly the Oak Hills Church of Christ) in San Antonio, Texas.\n\nLucado was born in San Angelo, Texas, the youngest of four children to Jack and Thelma Lucado. He grew up in Andrews, Texas. His father was an oil field worker, while his mother served as a nurse.\n\nLucado attended Abilene Christian University where he received an undergraduate degree in Mass Communication. While a student at Abilene Christian, Lucado worked to pay his way through college by selling books door-to-door with the Southwestern Advantage entrepreneurial program. Initially he wished to become a lawyer, but has said that a required Bible course at the university and a mission trip made him change his mind, deciding instead to become a missionary. However, this required that Lucado get a graduate degree in Bible and Biblical Studies; and, have at least two years experience ministering to a church. Lucado graduated from Abilene Christian University with a master's degree in Bible and Biblical Studies.\n\nAfter graduation, Lucado became an associate minister at Central Church of Christ in Miami, Florida. His responsibilities initially included overseeing a singles' group and writing a column for the church's newsletter. After two years in Miami, the now newlywed Lucado and his wife, Denalyn Lucado, moved to Rio de Janeiro, Brazil to become full-time missionaries. In 1987, Lucado's father died from Lou Gehrig's disease. After five years in Brazil, he brought his family back to the United States to be closer to his mother.\n\nMax and his wife appeared on \"Fixer Upper\" (S3 E9 which aired January 26, 2016) when his daughter Sara and her husband Jeff Jones purchased a home that was to be remodeled by Chip & Joanna Gaines. Max asked that a quote that he had written for his daughter's wedding when he officiated be incorporated in some way into the new home without the couple knowing ahead of time. The quote was \"Would you take these two of dust and bone, born of flesh, then would you make them one? Would you speak again the words you spoke when Adam slept and Eve Awoke? Would you let your wine replace our water and look with grace on this son, this daughter? Oh Lord of Eden in your majesty create again your tapestry. One heart where there were two. This is the prayer we lift to you.\" Joanna asked Clayton Thompson to make the wall art and it was placed in the \"moffice\" (the mudroom and office combined).\n\nIn 1988, he was hired as a minister to the Oak Hills Church of Christ in San Antonio, Texas. He stopped taking a salary from the church in 1990, because he was already an established successful author.\n\nDuring his tenure, Oak Hills began using musical instruments in worship services and held the belief that baptism isn't required for salvation (two key doctrines of the Churches of Christ); ultimately Oak Hills dropped its affiliation with them in 2003, calling itself simply \"Oak Hills Church\".\n\nAfter serving as the senior minister at Oak Hills Church in San Antonio, TX for 20 years, Lucado announced in early 2007 that he was stepping down due to health concerns related to atrial fibrillation. Lucado has since resumed the more limited ministry role of writing and preaching at Oak Hills with co-pastor Randy Frazee, formerly of Willow Creek Community Church of South Barrington, Illinois.\n\nLucado adheres to a trinitarian view of God. He believes the Bible to be infalible.\nLucado is a credobaptist.\n\nSome critics have described Lucado as having \"extreme views on gay rights\". Lucado has argued that same-sex marriage will lead to bigamy, bestiality and incest: \"A marriage between a daddy and a daughter or a woman and giraffe? Don’t underestimate the evil bent of the human heart.\" He has raised concerns around \"legalized polygamy and other deviations\" that will \"erode the traditional family.\" He has argued that gay men and women \"will not be allowed to enter the Kingdom of Heaven,\" but has expressed disapproval of \"gay bashing among God's people,\" stating that, \"Jesus loves his gay children.\"\n\nLucado has written almost 100 books with 130 million copies in print. He was recipient of the Charles \"Kip\" Jordon Gold Medallion Christian Book of the Year award three times for his books \"Just Like Jesus\", \"In the Grip of Grace\" and \"When God Whispers Your Name\"), and has also appeared regularly on several bestseller lists including the \"New York Times\" Best Seller List.\n\nLucado was named \"America's Pastor\" by \"Christianity Today\" magazine and in 2005 was named by \"Reader's Digest\" as \"The Best Preacher in America.\" He has also been featured on The Fox News Channel, NBC Nightly News, Larry King Live, LLBN, and USA Today. He has been a featured speaker at the National Prayer Breakfast.\n\n\nNelson, 2013. \n\nMovies\n\nMobile apps\n\n\"Media Company to Release Companion CD & DVD to New Lucado Book\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2132871", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2132871", "title": "Sonelgaz", "text": "Sonelgaz\n\nSonelgaz (, \"Socièté Nationale de l'Electricité et du Gaz\", National Society for Electricity and Gas) is a state-owned utility in charge of electricity and natural gas distribution in Algeria. It was established in 1969, replacing the previous body Electricité et gaz d'Algérie (EGA), and was given a monopoly over the distribution and selling of natural gas within the country as well as the production, distribution, importation, and exportation of electricity. In 2002, its monopoly was revoked by presidential decree N° 02-195, which legally converted it into a private (though entirely government-owned) company; it is now scheduled to be split eventually. As of 2003, it produces 29 billion kWh a year, sells 4.6 billion cubic metres of gas a year, and employs nearly 20,000 people.\n\n"}
{"id": "2132880", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2132880", "title": "Embassy Row, Ottawa", "text": "Embassy Row, Ottawa\n\nEmbassy Row in Ottawa, Ontario, Canada is generally considered the eastern part of the Sandy Hill and Lower Town neighbourhoods. These areas are sometimes home to buildings that serve as a chancery (the administrative headquarters of a foreign mission) but more often they are ambassadorial residences (where an ambassador or high commissioner lives). Sometimes the same building serves both purposes, but when they are separated the chancery tends to be located in a commercial or government district of the city, while the official residence is in a residential neighbourhood. Numerous foreign embassies and high commissions (some chanceries, some residences, some both) are found in the vicinity of Strathcona Park. Many embassies are located on Range Road, Wilbrod Street, and parts of Laurier Avenue and Charlotte Street.\n\n"}
{"id": "2132885", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2132885", "title": "Jacques Wallage", "text": "Jacques Wallage\n\nJacques Wallage (born 27 September 1946) is a retired Dutch politician of the Labour Party (PvdA) and sociologist.\n\nWallage attended a Gymnasium in Groningen from April 1959 until May 1965 and applied at the University of Groningen in June 1965 majoring in Political sociology and Urban planning and obtaining an Bachelor of Social Science degree in Political sociology in June 1967 and worked as a student researcher before graduating with an Master of Social Science degree in Political sociology in July 1971. Wallage served on the Municipal Council of Groningen from April 1970 until June 1981 and served as an Alderman in Groningen from May 1972 until June 1981. Wallage also was active as a political activist and was one of the student leaders of the New Left movement which aimed to steer the Labour Party more to Progressivism.\n\nWallage was elected as a Member of the House of Representatives after the election of 1981, taking office on 10 June 1981 serving as a frontbencher chairing the and spokesperson for Education, Social Work, Equality, Minorities and deputy spokesperson for Welfare and Culture. After the election of 1989 Wallage was appointed as State Secretary for Education and Sciences in the Cabinet Lubbers III, taking office on 7 November 1989. Wallage was appointed as State Secretary for Social Affairs and Employment following the resignation of Elske ter Veld, taking office on 9 June 1993. After the election of 1994 Wallage returned as a Member of the House of Representatives, taking office on 17 May 1994. Following the cabinet formation of 1994 the Leader of the Labour Party and the Parliamentary leader of the Labour Party in the House of Representatives Wim Kok became Prime Minister in the Cabinet Kok I, the Labour Party leadership approached Wallage as his successor as Parliamentary leader, Wallage accepted and became the Parliamentary leader, taking office on 22 August 1994. As Parliamentary leader of the largest party in the House of Representatives he also chaired the . After the election of 1998 Kok returned as Parliamentary leader on 19 May 1998 but following the cabinet formation of 1998 he remained as Prime Minister in the Cabinet Kok II and the Labour Party leadership approached Wallage as interim Parliamentary leader, taking office on 30 May 1998 until Ad Melkert was approached as Parliamentary leader on 10 July 1998 and he continued to serve in the House of Representatives as a frontbencher and the \"de facto\" Whip.\n\nIn August 1998 Wallage was nominated as Mayor of Groningen, he resigned as Member of the House of Representatives on 26 August 1998 and was installed as Mayor of Groningen, serving from 1 October 1998 until 25 June 2009. Wallage semi-retired from national politics and became active in the private sector and public sector and occupied numerous seats as a corporate director and nonprofit director on several boards of directors and supervisory boards (PostNL, International Institute of Social History, Groninger Museum, International Cycling Film Festival, Radio Netherlands Worldwide, , Royal Association of Shipowners and the Maritime Research Institute) and served on several and councils on behalf of the government (, Accreditation Council, and Public Pension Funds APB). Wallage also served as a distinguished professor of Governmental Studies, Public administration and Social integration at the University of Groningen from 1 September 2009 until 1 October 2014 and a distinguished visiting professor of Public administration at the University of Groningen since 1 October 2014.\n\n"}
{"id": "2132897", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2132897", "title": "László Melis", "text": "László Melis\n\nLászló Melis (14 August 1953 – 12 February 2018) was a Hungarian composer and violinist. He writes primarily in the minimal style and his compositions are often characterized by a propulsive, bouncy quality. Melis was a founding member of the Hungarian new music group Group 180, which during its existence (1978–1990) performed and recorded five of his compositions.\n\nMelis has composed music for film, winning the Award for Best Music for his work in the animated pieces, \"A szél\" (\"The Wind\") and \"Gyurmatek\" (\"Clay Play\") at the 2nd Kecskemét Animation Film Festival. He composed the score for the award-winning film \"Son of Saul\". He has also worked extensively in theater, creating incidental music for theatrical productions. His compositions have been recorded by the BMC and Hungaroton labels.\n\n"}
{"id": "2132903", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2132903", "title": "Synod of Diamper", "text": "Synod of Diamper\n\nThe Synod of Diamper, held at Udayamperoor, known as Diamper in non-vernacular sources, was a diocesan synod, or council, that created rules and regulations for the ancient Saint Thomas Christians of the Malabar Coast, modern Kerala state, India, formally uniting them with the Catholic Church. This led to the creation of the Eastern Catholic Syro-Malabar Church, which follows East Syriac Rite liturgy.\n\n\"The Synod of Diamper was convened on June 20, 1599, under the leadership of Aleixo de Menezes, Latin rite Archbishop of Goa. Archdeacon George of the Cross was forced to comply with the wishes of the Archbishop of Goa. This compliance separated the Saint Thomas Christians from the Church of the East in Persia and subjected them directly to the Latin Archbishopric of Goa. The Archbishopric of Angamaly was downgraded to a bishopric under Goa in 1600 AD. Portuguese Padroado rule was thus imposed and the bishops for Saint Thomas Christians were appointed by Portuguese Padroado.\"\n\n\"In 1597, Mar Abraham, the last Metropolitan Archbishop appointed by the Chaldean Patriarch, died. His Archdeacon, George (of the Cross), according to the custom and by appointment of Mar Abraham, took up the administration of the Archdiocese of Angamale. In opposition, Menezes nominated Fr. Francis Ros SJ as Administrator.\" Bishop Menzes visited Malabar in February 1599, obtained church leader support through coercion. Menezes threatened to depose Archdeacon, George (of the Cross) and appoint in his place Thomas Kurian, another nephew of former Archdeacon whose claims had been ignored in 1593. In order to prevent a division, Archdeacon, George (of the Cross) gave in to the demands of Menezes. The Archdeacon called together an assembly of the Saint Thomas Christians at Angamali, where a solemn oath was taken. The participants agreed to act only according to the wishes of Archdeacon. \n\nThis yielding cleared the way for the Portuguese to impose their customs, hierarchy, law, liturgy, and rites among the Saint Thomas Christians. Many of the local customs were officially anathematized as heretical, and their manuscripts were condemned to be either corrected or burnt. \n\nDom Alexis Menezes, Archbishop of Goa, led the schism summoning all the priests, other clerics, and four laymen elected from each church, even from the churches he had not visited under pain of ex-communication. About 130 ecclesiastics and 660 laymen (elected and specially invited) met at Diamper in the territory of Kingdom of Cochin.\n\nThe synod solemnly began on the third Sunday after Pentecost, 20 June 1599, in the church of Diamper (Udayamperoor) and continued until 26 June 1599. Archbishop Menezes presided over the Synod. The Nestorian Patriarch was condemned as a heretic and schismatic, and they were made to swear that they would not accept any bishop except the one nominated by Rome. The controversial Synod of Diamper canonized the Romanisation of the Church of Saint Thomas Christians. Aleixo de Menezes, labouring under the shadow of the Protestant Reformation and the Council of Trent, was unwilling to give an inch to the customs of the Saint Thomas Christians.\n\nThe Synod issued 200 decrees distributed in nine actions (sessions). It has been suggest that the differences between the decrees of the Synod, are due to translation. It has been suggested that these decrees were first formulated in the Portuguese language by Don Menezes and then translated to Malayalam. It has been suggested that the participants signed the Malayalam document, which lacks 35 of the Canons given in the Portuguese text.\n\nThe Synod of Diamper condemned a multitude of Hindus beliefs, especially those related to Transmigration, Fate, and Astrology. Hindu ceremonies and customs related to matrimony, death, birth, and purification on touching lower castes, which were prevalent among the Christians of St. Thomas, were abandoned altogether. They were even banned from frequenting to Hindu Festivities including Onam. The Synod also condemned the belief that every man might be saved by his Laws, all of which are good and lead to heaven, irrespective of his religion. The Synod banned Christian teachers from installing or using any Hindu idols in their schools. Polygamy and Concubinage were forbidden, and clergymen were banned from marital relations, military services to Hindu Princes, and other secular indulgences. Previously, Hindu musicians had been used to conduct programs in Christian churches, but the Synod banned the practice outright.\n\nPortuguese impositions had many severe consequences on the social status of Syrian Christians. Dr Buchanan, in his 1806 interview with a senior priest in Mavelikara, elicited a brief account of the degenerated social status of Syrian Christians. According to him, a once self-sufficient community had to seek the protection of Hindu Princes and the dispersed Christians further became the victims of encroachment by other communities. It is notable that even in such a degenerative condition of the community, Dr Buchanan was introduced to a Brahmin man who had opted to become a Syrian Priest.\n\nThe Synod prohibited the use of many heretic books. These books are listed below.\n\nThis book contained the following concepts, which are against Catholic creed:\n\n\nThis book contained the following concepts which are against Catholic creed:\n\n\nThis book contained the following concept which is against Catholic creed:\n\n\nThis is written by Abed Isho, a Nestorian prelate. This book contained the following concepts which are against Catholic creed:\n\n\nThis book contained the following concepts which are against Catholic creed:\n\n\nThis book contained the following concepts which are against Catholic creed:\n\n\nIt contains a forged letter of Pope Caius, with false subscriptions of many other Western Bishops, directed to Nestorian Bishops, wherein it is acknowledged that the Church of Rome ought to be subject to Nestorian church.\nThis book contained the following concepts which are against Catholic creed:\n\nThis book contained the following concept which is against Catholic creed:\n\n\nA letter believed to have come from heaven, in which the Roman Church is accused of having fallen from the faith.\n\nIt claims the distinction of two persons in Christ, and the accidental union of the incarnation is proved.\n\nThis book contained the following concepts which are against Catholic creed:\n\nThis book contained the following concept which is against Catholic creed:\n\n\nThis book contained the following concepts which are against Catholic creed:\n\nThis book contained the following concepts which are against Catholic creed:\nIt also contains prayers for those converted to Nestorianism from any other sect.\n\nThis book contained the following concepts which are against Catholic creed:\nIt also contains:\n\nThis book contained the following concepts which are against Catholic creed:\n\nThis book contained the following concepts which are against Catholic creed:\n\n\nIt contains many non-Christian rituals and practices such as:\n\n\nDescribes the lives of many Nestorian saints.\n\nIt contains:\n\n\nThe text on which the Synod worked was a composite East Syriac text of Anaphora of Addai and Mari. The Synod declared certain passages of the Holy Qurbana of Addai and Mari as impious, sacrilegious and resulting from Nestorian heresy. The changes made by the Synod consist of six in litanies, seven in hymns or anthems, four in formulae of the deacon, one in the response of the people, one in the text of the gospel lesson, and one affecting the whole creed. In the prayer of the priest, there are five changes in the pre-anaphora part of the Qurbana of Addai and Mari. There are four changes within the anaphora and eleven in the four variable hutame (Sealing prayers).\n\nUnder Portuguese Padroado, Latin Bishops were appointed to govern the Saint Thomas Christians. Fr. Francis Ros SJ was nominated as successor to Mar Abraham on 5 November 1599. Bishop Roz SJ, centralized in himself all the authority reducing almost to nothing the powers of Archdeacon. Bishop Francis Roz SJ died on 16 February 1624 and was succeeded by Bishop Britto Stephen SJ. Archdeacon George (of the Cross) died c. 1634 and was succeeded by Archdeacon Thomas. Bishop Britto SJ died in 1641 and Bishop Garcia Francis SJ succeeded him. A regular fight ensued between the new Archbishop Garcia Francis SJ and the new Archdeacon Thomas.\n\nThe decree XVI ordered that all the Syriac MSS should be handed over to the Archbishop or his deputy on a visit to the Churches. Due to the lack of printed books, the Qurbana MSS were excluded from this.\n\nSome of the other books which are said to have beenburnt at the Synod of Diamper are:\n\n\nThere are only very few Syriac manuscripts that withstood the destruction. Recently, Dr. Istvan Perczel, a Hungarian scholar researching Syrian Christians in India, found that certain texts survived the destruction of Syriac religious writings by the Portuguese missionaries.\n\nThe Church authorities noted the result of the synod was not as helpful as they expected. As the Catholic Encyclopedia (1913) says, \"The only case in which an ancient Eastern rite has been wilfully romanized is that of the Uniat Malabar Christians, where it was not Roman authority but the misguided zeal of Alexius de Menezes, Archbishop of Goa, and his Portuguese advisers at the Synod of Diamper (1599) which spoiled the old Malabar Rite.\"\n\nAfter the Synod of Diamper, on 25 November 1599, a letter was sent to Pope by the Archdeacon, giving information about the Synod and its work. The letter praises the work of Menezes and requests the appointment of Menezes or Fr. Francis Roz as their Bishop. The letter does not fully represent the genuine sentiments of Archdeacon, as by that time he was completely at the mercy of the Portuguese and the only thing left for him to do was to follow their directives.\n\nIn this way, the Synod of Diamper achieved one of the aims of the Portuguese policy in Kerala, to separate the Syrian Christians of Malabar from the Chaldean Patriarch and to extend the influence of Portuguese Padroado in India. As a result, the King of Portugal got the right of nomination to the ancient See of Saint Thomas in Malabar. The Archbishopric of Angamale was degraded to a Portuguese Padroado diocese under Goa on August,4th 1600 AD.\n\nThe oppressive rule of the Portuguese Padroado provoked a violent reaction by the St. Thomas Christian community. The first solemn protest occurred in 1653. Under the leadership of Malankara Mooppen Thoma, Nasranis gathered at Mattancherry church on Friday, 24 January 1653 (M.E. 828 Makaram 3), and made an oath that is known as the Great Oath of Bent Cross. The following oath was read aloud and the people touching a stone-cross repeated it loudly: \"By the Father, Son and Holy Ghost that henceforth we would not adhere to the Franks, nor accept the faith of the Pope of Rome.\". The Missionary Register for 1822 seems to be the earliest reliable document available . Those who were not able to touch the cross-tied ropes on the cross held the rope in their hands and made the oath. Because of the weight, it is said that the cross bent a little and so it is known as \"Oath of the bent cross (Coonen Kurisu Sathyam)\"\n\nThe exact wording of the oath is a matter of dispute among the Saint Thomas Christians of various denominations.\n\nSyro-Malabar Catholic and Syro-Malankara Catholic Churches insist the oath was not against the Pope of Rome, but against the Jesuits. This could be supported by the fact that the majority of the oath takers (84 of the 116 communities) eventually returned to communion with the Pope after the Pope replaced the Jesuit missionaries with Carmelites. \n\nStephen Neill, an Anglican Protestant missionary and later Anglican Bishop of Tamil Nadu from Scotland in his book, \"A History of Christianity in India: The Beginnings to AD 1707 said, \"\"In January 1653, priests and people assembled in the church of Our Lady at Mattanceri, and standing in front of a cross and lighted candles swore upon the holy Gospel that they would no longer obey Garcia and that they would have nothing further to do with the Jesuits they would recognize the archdeacon as the governor of their church. This is the famous oath of the Koonen Cross (the open-air Cross which stands outside the church at Mattancherry). The Thomas Christians did not at any point suggest that they wished to separate themselves from the pope. They could no longer tolerate the arrogance of Garcia. And their detestation of the Jesuits, to whose overbearing attitude and lack of sympathy they attributed all their troubles, breathes through all the documents of the time. But let the pope send them a true bishop, not a Jesuit, and they will be pleased to receive and obey him.\"\n\nFour months after the oath according to their ancient tradition 12 elders of the church laid their hands on Malankara Mooppen Thoma and ordained him as Mar Thoma I. The Portuguese missionaries attempted to reconcile with Saint Thomas Christians but were not successful. Later, Pope Alexander VII sent the Syrian bishop Joseph Sebastiani at the head of a Carmelite delegation who succeeded in convincing the majority of Saint Thomas Christians, including Palliveettil Chandy Kathanar and Kadavil Chandy Kathanar that the consecration of Archdeacon as metropolitan was not legitimate. Later, Palliveettil Chandy Kathanar was consecrated as the bishop for the Syrian Catholics with the historic title 'The Metropolitan and the Gate of all India' which denotes a Quasi Patriarchal status in all Indian jurisdictions. This led to the first permanent split in the Saint Thomas Christian community. Thereafter, the faction affiliated with the Catholic Church under Parambil Mar Chandy was designated the \"Pazhayakuttukar\", or \"Old Party\", while the branch affiliated with Mar Thoma was called the \"Puthankuttukar\", or \"New Party\". These appellations have been somewhat controversial, as both groups considered themselves the true heirs to the Saint Thomas tradition, and saw the other as heretical.\n\nAfter the Great Oath of Bent Cross, between 1661 and 1662, the Syrian Catholics claimed 84 churches of the 116, leaving Archdeacon Mar Thoma I only 32 churches. The 84 churches, and their congregations, were the bodies from which the Syro Malabar Catholic Church have descended. The other 32 churches, and their congregations, were the body from which the Syriac Orthodox Church (Jacobites), Thozhiyur (1772), Mar Thoma (Reformed Syrians) (1874), Syro Malankara Catholic Church have originated. In 1665, Mar Gregorios Abdul Jaleel, a Bishop sent by the Syriac Orthodox Patriarch of Antioch, arrived in India; the native Christians under the leadership of the Archdeacon welcomed him. This visit resulted in the Mar Thoma taking spiritual authority of the St. Thomas Christians.\n\nThe arrival of Mar Gregorios in 1665 marked the beginning of the associations of St. Thomas Christians with the Church of West Syria. Those who accepted the West Syriac theological and liturgical tradition of Mar Gregorios became known as the Malankara Syrian Church. Those who continued with East Syriac theological and liturgical tradition are known as the Syro-Malabar Catholic Church in communion with the Catholic Church. They adopted their own Syro-Malabar Hierarchy on 21 December 1923 with the Metropolitan Mar Augustine Kandathil as the Head of their Church.\n\nBy this process, Saint Thomas Christians were divided into East Syriac and West Syriac branches.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2132907", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2132907", "title": "László Sáry", "text": "László Sáry\n\nLászló Sáry (born Győrasszonyfa, Hungary, 1 January 1940) is a Hungarian composer and pianist. In the 1970s he began composing in a minimal style. He received recognition in 2002 for having created the scores for numerous animated works and was awarded a prize by the Kecskemét Animation Film Festival Jury for Best Music.\n\nA libre art composition published in 2018 under Sáry's influence for marimba and more instruments. (by the \"libre art\" composer Attila Szervác)\n\n"}
{"id": "2132916", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2132916", "title": "GNR Class J13", "text": "GNR Class J13\n\nThe Great Northern Railway (GNR) Class J13, classified J52 by the LNER is a class of 0-6-0ST steam locomotive intended primarily for shunting.\n\nThe Class J13 were introduced in 1897 designed by Henry Ivatt based on the earlier domeless GNR Class J14 (LNER Class J53). Eighty-five J13s were built up to 1909. Several J14s were rebuilt as J13s from 1922.\n\nSome locomotives were fitted with condensing apparatus for working on the Metropolitan Railway. Condensing apparatus was added to, or removed from, locomotives when they were allocated to, or away from, the London area.\n\nThe LNER reclassified the J13 as J52. They also introduced two subclasses, J52/1 for the rebuilt engines and J52/2 for the originals. Forty-eight J52/1s and 85 J52/2s passed to British Railways in 1948 and they were numbered 68757–68889.\n\nOn May 20th, 1952, No. 68790 collided with an NCB locomotive. \n\nOne, 8846 was privately preserved by Captain Bill Smith in 1959 and became the first locomotive to be privately preserved from BR. In 1980 it was donated to the National Railway Museum and made regular visits to other preserved railways and museums on its two Boiler Ticket durations in preservation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2132921", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2132921", "title": "KUCW", "text": "KUCW\n\nKUCW, virtual channel 30 (UHF digital channel 35), is a CW-affiliated television station serving Salt Lake City, Utah, United States that is licensed to Ogden. The station is owned by Nexstar Media Group, as part of a duopoly with Salt Lake City-licensed ABC affiliate KTVX (channel 4). The two stations share studios on West 1700 South in Salt Lake City (along I-215) and transmitter facilities atop Farnsworth Peak in the Oquirrh Mountains, southwest of Salt Lake City. There is no separate website for KUCW; instead, it is integrated with that of sister station KTVX.\n\nKUCW has a large network of broadcast translators that extend its over-the-air coverage throughout Utah, as well as portions of Nevada and Wyoming.\n\nThere are two methods of accounting the station's history: by license and by \"intellectual unit\" which is the combination of a station's call letters, programming, network affiliation, and staff. As the result of local marketing agreements struck in 1998, which launched a process that culminated in a station swap in 1999, KUCW's license history differs from its intellectual unit history prior to April 21, 1998.\n\nOn May 24, 1983, the FCC granted an original construction permit to build a full-power television station on UHF channel 30 to serve the city of Ogden and the Salt Lake City market. The new station, owned by Ogden Television Inc., originally identified under its application number (830121KH) but took the call letters KOOG-TV in September 1985. It first signed on the air on October 7 and was licensed on January 16, 1986. Originally, the station maintained a general entertainment format airing cartoons, classic movies, drama series and classic sitcoms. In early 1986, the station began airing Home Shopping Network programming during the overnight hours, before expanding the network's programming to the midday hours in mid-1987. By 1988, KOOG was carrying HSN programming eighteen hours a day and general entertainment programming for six hours a day.\n\nOgden Television Inc. went into receivership in 1993 and the station was sold to the Miracle Rock Church in a deal finalized in March 1994. Ogden Television was programming approximately eight hours of general entertainment programs per day while Miracle Rock Church added about an hour per day of religious programming to the schedule and continued to air HSN approximately fifteen hours a day. On January 11, 1995, KOOG became a charter affiliate of The WB, which initially only carried prime time programming on Wednesday evenings (Sunday primetime shows were added nine months later). The following September, it also added cartoons from Kids' WB. Paxson Communications (now Ion Media Networks), having recently failed to complete an agreement to acquire 50% of KZAR-TV (channel 16, later KUWB and now KUPX-TV) in Provo, agreed to acquire KOOG in 1996 and the station dropped HSN in favor of Paxson's inTV infomercial network. The sale was finalized in June 1997 and the station continued to air programming from The WB. Almost immediately, Paxson began pursuing a television station swap with KZAR, which was at the time wholly owned by Roberts Broadcasting. The swap proposal was documented in an August 1997 transfer of control agreement between Roberts Broadcasting and ACME Communications.\n\nAt the same time, Paxson was involved in a dispute with Sonic Cable Television of Utah trying to secure must-carry coverage on Sonic's system in Logan. Paxson filed a complaint with the FCC at the end of December but their petition was unsuccessful. In February 1998, KOOG became KUPX airing inTV during the daytime, WB programming during prime time, and The Worship Network overnight. On April 20, 1998, Paxson entered into an agreement with Roberts Broadcasting and ACME Communications in which each station would acquire the other's assets but WB programming would remain on channel 30. To expedite the process, the parties immediately entered into local marketing agreements whereby the stations would swap call signs and would begin to operate each other's stations until the FCC could approve the assignments of license. The following day, the stations executed the LMAs. KUPX channel 30 in Ogden became KUWB, while KUWB channel 16 in Provo became KUPX. Paxson continued to own the Ogden station that was now KUWB, but operated the new Provo station, KUPX. Meanwhile, Roberts and ACME continued to own KUPX, but operated KUWB.\n\nUpon assuming operations at KUWB, ACME dropped the infomercial and religious programming and replaced it with classic television series. Paxson, Roberts and ACME filed formal assignment of license applications in May 1998 and the FCC approved the swap in March 1999. In September 1999, ACME (having bought out Roberts Broadcasting's interests) and Paxson consummated the agreement and took full ownership of their respective stations. In time, KUWB began to cut back on cartoons and classic sitcoms, and eventually eliminated them altogether in favor of court shows, daytime talk and reality shows. Afternoon cartoons disappeared in January 2006 when The WB ended the weekday afternoon Kids' WB block. In August 2005, Clear Channel Communications (owner of KTVX) reached an agreement to buy KUWB from ACME Communications. The sale, completed in April 2006, gave Clear Channel a duopoly in the Salt Lake City market.\n\nOn January 24, 2006, the Warner Bros. unit of Time Warner and CBS Corporation announced that the two companies would shut down The WB and UPN and combine the networks' respective programming to create a new \"fifth\" network called The CW. KUWB's sale to Clear Channel became contingent on the ability of the station to secure the CW affiliation. In April, Clear Channel announced plans to affiliate KUWB with The CW, and nearly two weeks later, CW and KUWB announced the official affiliation agreement. As a result, the sale of the station was able to be completed.\n\nIn February 2006, Clear Channel obtained the KUCW call letters and placed them on a Coos Bay, Oregon satellite of KMTR in Eugene, Oregon in anticipation of the acquisition of KUWB. On September 18, 2006, Clear Channel changed the calls of the Coos Bay station to KMCB and moved the KUCW calls to channel 30 to coincide with the official launch of The CW. On November 16, Clear Channel announced that it would sell its television stations, including KUCW and KTVX, after being bought by private equity firms. On April 20, 2007, Clear Channel entered into an agreement to sell its entire television station group to Newport Television, a broadcast holding company operated by private equity firm Providence Equity Partners. The deal was finalized on March 14, 2008.\n\nIn May 2008, Newport agreed to sell KUCW and five other stations to High Plains Broadcasting due to an ownership conflict with Univision Communications (of which Providence Equity holds a 19% stake in, and already owned KUTH, channel 32). The sale closed on September 15, 2008. Newport retained control of the station via joint sales and shared services agreements. On October 12, 2009, KUCW announced that it had agreed to air Utah State University football as well as men's and women's basketball games. This agreement ran through the 2012–2013 academic year.\n\nOn July 19, 2012, Newport Television and High Plains Broadcasting reached a deal to sell 22 of their 27 stations to the Nexstar Broadcasting Group, Sinclair Broadcast Group and Cox Media Group. KUCW and KTVX were among the twelve that would be sold to Nexstar, which would acquire both stations outright since Nexstar does not currently hold a stake in any competing station in the market. The JSA and SSA between KTVX and KUCW was terminated when the transaction was completed on December 3, as both stations officially became co-owned for the first time since Clear Channel sold the pair back in 2008.\n\nOn December 3, 2018, Nexstar announced it would acquire the assets of Chicago-based Tribune Media—which has owned Fox affiliate KSTU (channel 13) since December 2013—for $6.4 billion in cash and debt. Nexstar is precluded from acquiring KSTU directly or indirectly, as FCC regulations prohibit common ownership of more than two stations in the same media market, or two or more of the four highest-rated stations in the market. (Furthermore, any attempt by Nexstar to assume the operations of KSTU through local marketing or shared services agreements may be subject to regulatory hurdles that could delay completion of the FCC and Justice Department's review and approval process for the acquisition.) As such, Nexstar will be required to sell either KSTU or KTVX to a separate, unrelated company to address the ownership conflict. (In the case of KSTU, reports preceding the purchase announcement stated that, as it did during the group's failed purchase by Sinclair, Fox Television Stations would seek to acquire certain Fox-affiliated stations owned by Tribune from the eventual buyer of that group. Also, as KUCW does not rank among the top four in total-day viewership and therefore is not in conflict with existing FCC in-market ownership rules, that station optionally can be retained by Nexstar regardless of whether it chooses to retain ownership of KTVX or sell KTVX in order to acquire KSTU or, should it be divested, be sold to the prospective buyer of KTVX.) On March 20, 2019, it was announced that Nexstar would keep the KTVX/KUCW duopoly and sell KSTU to the Cincinnati-based E. W. Scripps Company, marking Scripps' entry into Utah, as part of the company's sale of nineteen Nexstar- and Tribune-operated stations to Scripps and Tegna Inc. in separate deals worth $1.32 billion. The sale received FCC approval on September 16, 2019 and was ultimately consummated three days later.\n\nThe KUWB intellectual unit began on August 22, 1997 when ACME Communications agreed to acquire 49% ownership of Roberts Broadcasting of Salt Lake City, owners of unbuilt station KZAR-TV on analog channel 16 in Provo, with a second agreement to acquire the remaining 51% after the station commenced on-air operations. ACME was founded in 1997 and its stations were affiliated with The WB because its CEO and co-founder, Jamie Kellner, was its co-founder and had served as its CEO at that time. KZAR changed its call letters to KUWB in February 1998 and the intellectual unit moved over to UHF channel 30 in April 1998 when ACME Communications and Roberts Broadcasting (co-owners of channel 16) and Paxson Communications (owners of channel 30) agreed to allow each other to manage their stations leading up to the station swap which was completed in September 1999.\n\nThe station's digital signal is multiplexed:\nIn April 2011, KUCW added The Country Network on digital subchannel 30.2.\n\nOn May 1, 2014, KUCW replaced ZUUS Country with Movies! on digital subchannel 30.2. ZUUS Country moved to 30.3\n\nOn July 3, 2015, KUCW replaced ZUUS Country with Buzzr on digital subchannel 30.3.\n\nOn September 2, 2016, KUCW replaced Buzzr on digital subchannel 30.3 with Grit. Also, on September 2, 2016, KUCW added Escape to digital subchannel 30.4.\n\nOn September 5, 2016, KUCW switched from 720p to 1080i.\n\nOn May 8, 2019, KUCW replaced Escape with Court TV on digital subchannel 30.4.\n\nOn April 3, 1997, the FCC adopted its Sixth Report and Order establishing digital television service allotments. In the initial allotment, the FCC assigned UHF channel 17 for KZAR-DT (the companion channel to UHF channel 16 in Provo) later to become KUWB-DT. In the station swap, the allocation for KUWB-DT was treated as part of the KUWB intellectual unit and became the companion channel for Ogden UHF channel 30 although channel 17 was still officially assigned to Provo in the Digital Table of Allotments. ACME Communications filed an application for KUWB-DT in November 1998. In July 1999, KUWB and seven other area channels, collectively known as DTV Utah, proposed significant changes to the Salt Lake City market DTV allocations which were approved by the FCC in May 2000.\n\nAs a result of the FCC ruling, KUWB-DT was reallocated from UHF channel 17 to channel 48 and its city of license officially moved from Provo to Ogden in the DTV Table of Allotments. The FCC granted a construction permit to build KUWB-DT in October 2001 and ACME Communications applied for a license for the DTV station six months later. The FCC granted the license for KUWB-DT (now KUCW-DT) on October 28, 2002. KUCW shut down its analog signal, over UHF channel 30, on June 12, 2009, as part of the federally mandated transition from analog to digital television. The station's digital signal remained on its pre-transition UHF channel 48, using PSIP to display KUCW's virtual channel as 30 on digital television receivers.\n\nOn September 9, 2018, KUCW moved its frequency, from digital channel 48 to digital channel 30.\n\nSyndicated programming on KUCW includes \"The King of Queens\", \"The Big Bang Theory\", \"Jerry Springer\", \"Two and a Half Men\", and \"Maury\".\n\nOccasionally as time permits, KUCW may air ABC network programs whenever KTVX is unable to in the event of extended breaking news coverage. The station also broadcasts NBC programming that the network's local affiliate, KSL-TV (channel 5), declines to air. The owner of that station, Bonneville International, is part of the media division of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. A socially conservative religious organization, the LDS Church is known to refuse to air some of NBC's programming including the single-season sitcom \"The New Normal\", the drama \"Hannibal\" and the short-lived series \"Coupling\" and \"The Playboy Club\". From September 1995 to September 2013, KUCW also broadcast \"Saturday Night Live\" as KSL elected to run its popular local sports discussion and highlight program, \"SportsBeat Saturday\", in the program's 10:30 p.m. timeslot instead; KSL began carrying \"SNL\" that fall.\n\nKTVX began producing a two-hour extension of its weekday morning newscast \"Good Morning Utah\" (airing from 7 to 9 a.m.) and a half-hour 9 p.m. newscast for KUCW in September 2010. In addition, on September 7, KUCW began airing a local entertainment program each weekday morning at 9 a.m. called \"The Daily Dish\" (which has since been moved to KTVX and has now been converted into an hour-long midday newscast at 11:00 a.m.). The 9 p.m. newscast ended on December 9, 2011 due to low ratings, followed by the morning newscast's cancellation in 2012. A new 9 p.m. newscast, \"9 at 9\", launched on April 22, 2013.\n\n\nThe station extends its coverage throughout the entire state of Utah, plus parts of Idaho, Nevada, and Wyoming, using a network of translator television stations, which are listed below.\n\n"}
{"id": "2132926", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2132926", "title": "Jeremy Soule", "text": "Jeremy Soule\n\nJeremy Soule (; born December 19, 1975) is an American composer of soundtracks for film, television and video games. He has won multiple awards and has been described as the \"John Williams of video game music\" and \"a model of success\" for Western composers. He has composed soundtracks for over 60 games and over a dozen other works during his career. He is best known for his work in \"The Elder Scrolls\" and \"Guild Wars\" series, and several other top-selling titles such as \"Total Annihilation\", \"Supreme Commander\", \"Neverwinter Nights\", \"Dungeon Siege\", \"\", and \"Harry Potter\".\n\nAfter several years of private composition studies he became an employee of Square in 1994. After finishing the soundtrack to \"Secret of Evermore\" in 1995, he left to join Humongous Entertainment, where he composed for several children's games as well as \"Total Annihilation\", his first award-winning score. In 2000, he left to form his own music production company, \"Soule Media\", now called \"Artistry Entertainment\". Through the company, Soule has created several award-winning soundtracks, including \"Icewind Dale\", the \"Harry Potter\" series of games, and all of the main \"Elder Scrolls\" games since 2002.\n\nIn 2005, he founded DirectSong, a record label that publishes digital DRM-free versions of his soundtracks as well as those of classical composers. Soule's works have been played in several live concerts such as the Symphonic Game Music Concert in Germany and the international \"Play! A Video Game Symphony\" concert series. While many of his works are orchestral, he considers himself a \"music practitioner\", or someone who creates music in general rather than just one type of music. Several of Soule's soundtracks have been created with the help of his brother, Julian. \n\nSoule was born in Keokuk, Iowa to a public school music teacher father and a graphic designer mother. He became interested in music and symphony orchestras at the age of five. Soule began taking piano lessons at an early age and became entranced with music, even writing music notation in the margins of his math homework; after his teachers and his father realized his talent, he began taking private lessons with professors from Western Illinois University when he was in sixth grade. He claims to have earned the equivalent of a master's degree in composition before completing high school; however, as he never enrolled in the school, he did not earn a degree. He was split between trying to become a concert pianist and a composer when he grew up; he ended up deciding to become a composer once he realized how difficult it would be to do both.\n\nWhile playing video games as a child, Soule came to believe that the experience they created could be greatly enhanced by having a better musical score. After completing high school, he took a year to create a portfolio showcasing what he felt video game scores should sound like. Soule sent the tape to LucasArts and Square. Square very much appreciated the portfolio; he does not believe that LucasArts ever listened to his tapes as they had a \"no unsolicited package\" policy. Soule began working at Square in Seattle only two weeks after first submitting his demo tapes.\n\nSoule was promptly given the task by Square to score \"Secret of Evermore\". The finished game features an untraditional score incorporating ambient background sounds (like wind blowing and ocean waves) into the music and utilizing a more mellow orchestral sound. Part of the reason for this was that the sound program used in \"Evermore\" was not up to the technical challenge of what Soule wanted to do with it, forcing him to work creatively within his limitations. When Ron Gilbert of LucasArts left to form his own company, Humongous Entertainment, and Square moved from Seattle to Los Angeles, Soule quit Square to score Gilbert's children's adventure game series, \"Putt-Putt\"; he was the company's third employee. Soule composed the soundtracks to 11 children's games over the next three years, with multiple titles in the \"Putt-Putt\", \"Pajama Sam\", \"Freddi Fish\" and \"Spy Fox\" series.\n\nWhile working at Humongous, Soule met fellow employee and video game designer Chris Taylor, and signed on to compose the soundtrack to his major project, \"Total Annihilation\". Soule convinced Taylor that, given the large number of other real-time strategy games coming out at the same time as \"Total Annihilation\" with techno scores, that to separate themselves they needed to do a large orchestral score. He went so far as to bet a year's worth of reduced pay that it would pay off; Gilbert felt that it did after the first sentence of the first review of the game he read was about the music. Given the software limitations at the time, to make the sound work correctly required a full live orchestra, the first that Soule had ever worked with; the orchestral tracks in \"Evermore\" had been performed by Soule and his brother by themselves, two instruments at a time. The soundtrack earned Soule his first award, that of \"Best Music\" of 1997 from GameSpot in their year-end awards. Soule spent the next two years composing music for the game's two expansion packs and for children's games.\n\nIn February 2000, Jeremy and his brother, Julian, formed Soule Media as an independent music production company; its name has since been changed to Artistry Entertainment. Julian works as a sound engineer and composer for the company, and has assisted Jeremy in several projects throughout his career, both credited and uncredited. The first large project that Jeremy Soule worked on through the company was 2000's \"Icewind Dale\", which won the best music of the year award from both IGN and GameSpot.\n\nIn 2001, Soule scored the first of five \"Harry Potter\" games that he would work on between then and 2005. His first game, \"Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone\", was nominated for an Academy of Interactive Arts & Sciences award for \"Outstanding Achievement in Original Music Composition\", while \"Chamber of Secrets\" and \"Prisoner of Azkaban\" won and were nominated, respectively, for a British Academy of Film & Television Arts award for \"Best Score\" in the Game Music Category. The other games he composed for that year include \"\" and \"\", which he later described as a bad game lifted up in the eyes of testers and reviewers by good music. He was responsible for composing the soundtracks to three top-selling role-playing games in 2002, those of \"Dungeon Siege\", \"\", and \"Neverwinter Nights\"; \"Morrowind\" earned him his second Academy of Interactive Arts & Sciences award nomination.\n\nSince then Artistry Entertainment has grown and scored a string of highly successful games such as the \"Guild Wars\" series, \"\", \"\", \"\" and \"\". \"Oblivion\" was an award-winning soundtrack by Soule. It was nominated for the 2006 British Academy of Film & Television Arts and Academy of Interactive Arts & Sciences awards, and won the MTV Video Music Awards and Official Xbox Magazine soundtrack awards. In 2005, Jeremy and Julian Soule founded DirectSong, a company which sells DRM-free downloads of Jeremy's compositions as well as works by dozens of classical composers. By 2007 the company had grown to over one million registered customers, though Soule noted that not all of those customers resulted in a sale of a non-free product. Soule says that the traffic numbers for DirectSong have surpassed some major record labels at times. DirectSong has also struggled to fulfil orders or provide timely support, with some customers sometimes waiting more than a year for CDs, resulting in an \"F\" rating by the Better Business Bureau, based on 58 complaints.\n\nIn 2006, Soule composed music for the first \"Guild Wars\" title, and would ultimately go on to compose music for all expansions for the first game, as well as the soundtrack for \"Guild Wars 2\". Soule also uses DirectSong to sell \"expansion packs\" of music for games such as \"Guild Wars\" that can be played in game like the rest of the soundtrack. He estimates that at least 10% of the players of \"Guild Wars\" have bought his musical expansion for the game, \"Battle Pak 1\". Soule also worked on another of Chris Taylor's real-time strategy titles in 2007, with the launch of \"Supreme Commander\".\n\nNovember 2011 saw the release of the fifth installment in the \"Elder Scrolls\" franchise, \"Skyrim\". The game's soundtrack is among Soule's most critically acclaimed pieces of work, receiving a BAFTA nomination as well as numerous other awards from organizations such as the Game Audio Network Guild. Soule would also go on to compose the music for two of the official DLC packs for the game, \"Dragonborn\" and \"Dawnguard\", both released in 2012.\n\nIn March 2013, Soule launched a Kickstarter project to fund a classical music album called \"The Northerner: Soule Symphony No. 1\", seeking $10,000 for the album. The campaign ultimately raised a total of $121,227. The project features vocals in Old Norse, with Soule citing the successful use of the similar Icelandic language by Malukah in one of her own projects during development. For the project, Soule and his company are developing new audio technology. The symphony has no expected release date, having missed all prior announced dates.\n\nIn 2014, Soule signed an MMO exclusivity deal with Sony Online Entertainment, in order to compose music for \"Everquest Next\" and \"Landmark\". The move saw an end to his six-year collaboration with the \"Guild Wars\" series. \"Everquest Next\" was later cancelled in March 2016; \"Landmark\" was released in 2016, but was shut down less than a year later in February 2017.\n\nIn 2015, Soule composed a \"Dota 2\" music pack, along with his brother Julian. The soundtrack was available as part of the \"Compendium\", a pack of digitally-distributed content that funded the prize pool for The International 2015 tournament, which took place in August 2015 and ultimately featured the largest prize-pool in e-sports history, with over $18,000,000 in total.\n\nIn 2016, Soule composed the soundtrack for virtual reality game \"The Gallery\". Since then he has continued to work on games such as \"\" in 2018 as well as films such as the documentary \"Ice on Fire\" (2019).\n\nIn August 2019, Soule was accused of rape by game designer Nathalie Lawhead. He was also accused of sexual harassment by vocalist Aeralie Brighton. He has denied the accusations, and though they were widely reported no charges were filed.\n\nMusic that Soule has composed has been played in numerous live concerts. His music from \"Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets\" was performed on August 20, 2003 at the first \"Symphonic Game Music Concert\" in Leipzig, Germany, and his music from \"Morrowind\" was performed at the third \"Symphonic Game Music Concert\" on August 17, 2005. Selections of his pieces from \"Morrowind\" and \"Oblivion\" are played in the international concert series \"Play! A Video Game Symphony\". Jeremy Soule attended the world-premiere of Play! on May 27, 2006 in Chicago. Music from \"Oblivion\" has also been played at the \"Press Start 2007 -Symphony of Games-\" concerts in September 2007 in Japan. The first live orchestral concert dedicated to Soule's music for \"Skyrim\" took place on November 16, 2016 at London's Palladium theater. Soule's music has been featured in numerous top-selling games; he once estimated in an interview that around 10 million games with his music in them were sold in 2006 alone.\n\nSelections of remixes of Soule's work appear on English remixing websites such as OverClocked ReMix. Soule is a supporter of the game music arrangement community, even going so far as to submit his own arrangement to OverClocked ReMix. He did so to help promote and inspire younger and newer composers. The track, \"Squaresoft Variation\", arranges the \"Final Fantasy VI\" piece \"Terra\"; Soule has said that he chose the piece to remix because when he first started at Square he spent some time debugging the game before his composition duties for \"Evermore\" started.\n\nSoule rarely gets to see the game he is composing for in any sort of completed state before he begins work; as a result he bases many of his musical decisions on the company's previous games. He credits his success with this strategy to the fact that many of the games he works on come from studios that have created several successful games in the past. He finds it much easier to compose a soundtrack to a game that is very visual in nature, such as a role-playing game. He also likes to see the storyboards and concept art for the game, as he considers them a good provider of \"pure emotional intent\" for the game. When composing a soundtrack, the first thing that he decides is the tempo and the amount of energy the music will have; this decision is as much based on the genre of the game as it is the artistic style of the game. After that, Soule starts composing smaller tracks in the soundtrack, to make sure that they match up with the vision of the game before he starts on the major themes. Soule tries to compose all of a game's soundtrack himself rather than in a team, though he sometimes collaborates with his brother.\n\nAlthough many of his works are orchestral in nature, Soule has denied that it is his \"style\", as he feels that the term boxes him into only creating one type of music. He prefers to call himself a \"music practitioner\", or someone who creates music in general rather than just one type of music as he is capable of many styles, such as Japanese pop, which he has written along with Jeff Miyahara. Soule considers music to be like a language, which can be arranged in many different ways if you understand the structure. He does not have a favorite genre of game to compose for, preferring instead to compose for \"ambitious\" games by people with \"new ideas\".\n\nSoule's greatest musical influences are \"Debussy's exploration of harmony\", \"Wagner's grand operas\", and \"Mozart's form and composition\". While many of his orchestral works are based on movie scores in terms of scope, he does not often listen to movie scores, though he names his favorite composer as John Williams. The influence has been noted by critics, who have termed Soule \"the John Williams of video game music\". Among video game music influences, he has cited Square for providing him \"with the education for what quality means to this business\" and Nobuo Uematsu in particular. His favorite style of music to listen to is British pop and rock music, while his favorite video games are the ones that he has written scores to, especially the ones made by Chris Taylor, though one of his all-time favorites is \"The Legend of Zelda\". He has said that the games he would most like to work on that he has not already are ones by Shigeru Miyamoto, a \"Final Fantasy\" game, and a \"Metroid\" game.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2132928", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2132928", "title": "László Vidovszky", "text": "László Vidovszky\n\n\"The native form of this personal name is\" Vidovszky László. \"This article uses the Western name order.\"\n\nLászló Vidovszky (born Békéscsaba, Hungary, February 25, 1944) is a Hungarian composer and pianist. During the 1970s he began composing works in a minimal style.\n\nVidovszky studied composition with Géza Szatmári at the Szeged Conservatory in 1959, and with Ferenc Farkas at the Budapest Academy of Music from 1962 to 1967. In 1970-71, he studied in Paris, attending courses organized by the Groupe des Recherches Musicales as well as composition classes of Olivier Messiaen.\n\nIn 1970, Vidovszky co-founded (together with Zoltán Jeney, László Sáry, Péter Eötvös, and Albert Simon) the Budapest New Music Studio and has been an active member ever since, both as composer and as performer.\n\nVidovszky taught music theory at the Teachers’ Training College of the Budapest Academy of Music from 1972 to 1984. In 1984 he was appointed director of the music department at the University of Pécs in southern Hungary, a position which he held until 1988. In 1996 he was appointed as the first Dean of the recently founded Faculty of Fine and Performing Arts at the same university.\n\nVidovszky was awarded the Erkel Prize (1983), the Bartók-Pásztory Prize (1992) and the Kossuth Prize (2010). He was named Merited Artist of the Hungarian Republic in 1996.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2132939", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2132939", "title": "Martell Webster", "text": "Martell Webster\n\nMartell Webster (born December 4, 1986) is a former American professional basketball player who played 10 seasons in the National Basketball Association (NBA). The sixth player taken in the 2005 NBA draft, Webster played for Portland, Minnesota and Washington between 2005 and 2015. His best season came in 2012–13 when he started 62 games for the Wizards and averaged 11.4 points per game.\n\nConsidered a five-star recruit by Rivals.com, Webster was listed as the No. 4 shooting guard and the No. 5 player in the nation in 2005. He had made a commitment to the University of Washington, but opted to go prep-to-pro.\n\nWebster was selected by the Blazers with the sixth pick in the 2005 NBA draft after the Blazers' traded their third pick to the Utah Jazz just hours before the draft. He was assigned to the Fort Worth Flyers of the NBA Development League by the Blazers in January 2006, and in doing so became highest-drafted player (6th overall) to be assigned to the D-League until Hasheem Thabeet. He later returned to the Portland Trail Blazers in February 2006. He scored a season-high 26 points in a January 5, 2008 win over the Utah Jazz, with 24 of them scored in the third quarter. He is one of the last ever high school players to be chosen in an NBA draft due to new draft eligibility rules introduced in 2006. In October 2008, Webster signed a four-year, $20 million contract extension.\n\nOn February 20, 2009, it was announced by Trail Blazers athletic trainer Jay Jensen that Webster would likely miss the rest of the 2008–09 NBA season with a left foot injury, having only played 5 minutes during the season.\n\nOn January 23, 2010, he scored a season-high 28 points in a win against the Detroit Pistons.\n\nWebster was traded on June 24, 2010 to the Minnesota Timberwolves in exchange for Ryan Gomes and the rights to draft pick Luke Babbitt.\n\nWebster underwent back surgery in October 2010 and missed nearly half the 2010–11 NBA season, leading Timberwolves General Manager David Kahn to charge the Trail Blazers with failure to adequately disclose a known injury. Another back surgery followed in September 2011, limiting Webster to just 47 games for the Wolves in the 2011–12 season. In spring 2013 Kahn's complaint was reportedly settled by the Blazers for $1.5 million just before the matter was brought to a formal hearing before the NBA. It was said to be among the largest cash settlements in such a case. Both teams were sworn to secrecy about the exact terms of the deal, according to basketball journalist Henry Abbott of ESPN.\n\nOn July 13, 2012, Webster was waived by the Timberwolves.\n\nHe signed with the Washington Wizards on August 29, 2012, on a one-year, $1.6 million contract. On March 16, 2013, Webster scored a career-high 34 points in a win over the Phoenix Suns, also tying another career-high with seven three-pointers.\n\nOn July 10, 2013, Webster re-signed with the Wizards. In 2014–15, Webster missed the first 30 games of the season after he underwent surgery in June 2014 to repair a herniated disk in his lower back. He was ruled out for three to five months, as he returned to action on December 30, 2014 against the Dallas Mavericks.\n\nOn November 20, 2015, Webster was ruled out for the 2015–16 season after undergoing successful surgery to repair the labrum and damaged cartilage in his right hip. He was subsequently waived by the Wizards ten days later.\n\nOn September 25, 2017, Webster was added to the New Orleans Pelicans' training camp roster. However, five days later, Webster decided to leave training camp and retire from basketball.\n\nWebster's mother, Cora McGuirk, disappeared in 1990, when he was four years old. Although her body was never found, Gary Ridgway, known as the \"Green River Killer\", a serial killer who murdered dozens of women and girls in Washington during the 1980s and 1990s, is thought to be responsible for killing her. \n\nHis cousin is NBA veteran Jason Terry.\n\nIn 2015, Webster co-founded EYRST, an independent record label focusing on hip hop, based in Portland, Oregon. He released his first mixtape, \"ARTT\", on July 14, 2016, and his first EP on August 12, 2016, entitled \"Emerald District\", which was produced by Seattle hip hop producer Jake One.\n"}
{"id": "2132945", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2132945", "title": "Anti-Slavery Society", "text": "Anti-Slavery Society\n\nThe Anti-Slavery Society was the everyday name of two different British organisations.\n\nThe first was founded in 1823 and was committed to the abolition of slavery in the British Empire. Its official name was the Society for the Mitigation and Gradual Abolition of Slavery Throughout the British Dominions. This objective was substantially achieved in 1838 under the terms of the Slavery Abolition Act 1833. \n\nA successor organisation, the British and Foreign Anti-Slavery Society, was formed in 1839 by Joseph Sturge VI b.1793 d.1859 to fight for global abolition. After the end of slavery in the United States, the British organisation re-focussed. Through mergers and name changes, it is now known as Anti-Slavery International.\n\nThe elimination of slavery throughout the world was frequently in the mind of early abolitionists. The committee which established the Society for Effecting the Abolition of the Slave Trade in 1787 campaigned for an end to the transatlantic slave trade from Western Africa to the New World, a trade then dominated by Britain.\n\nThe Slave Trade Act 1807 made the trade illegal in the British Empire, but brought no change to the condition of enslaved people. Following this, British abolitionists turned their attention to abolishing slavery itself, first in British colonies, and later in the US and the colonies of other European powers (e.g., in South America), and in parts of the world where it had long been legal, such as in the Middle East, Africa, and China.\n\nThe first British organisation to refer to itself as the Anti-Slavery Society began in 1823. Founding members included William Wilberforce and Thomas Clarkson. Its official name was the Society for the Mitigation and Gradual Abolition of Slavery Throughout the British Dominions.\n\nIts work included supporting the first slave narrative to be published by a Black woman, Mary Prince, \"The History of Mary Prince, A West Indian Slave\" (1831). The publishers were sued by the family from which she had escaped. The book was much sought after, running into three editions in the year of its publication.\n\nA wide range of views emerged among the members. Broadly, there were abolitionists who insisted on the full working out of the gradual process of abolition and amelioration (which had its successes), and the generally younger, more radical members, whose moral outlook regarded slavery as a mortal sin to be ended forthwith. Elizabeth Heyrick's 1824 pamphlet \"Immediate, not Gradual, Abolition\" gave the tone to the argument.\n\nThe latter group, including Joseph Sturge and many others, publicly campaigned throughout Britain. The idea was to engender public pressure for a new parliamentary act to outlaw slavery, rather than continue the gradualism of Whitehall's negotiations, mainly with colonial governments. In 1831 George Stephen and Joseph Sturge formed a ginger group within the Anti-Slavery Society, the Agency Committee, to campaign for this new act of Parliament. This campaign, and public pressure, led to the Slavery Abolition Act of 1833, though it contained compromises which they disliked.\n\nJamaican mixed-race campaigners such as Louis Celeste Lecesne and Richard Hill (Jamaica) were also members of the Anti-Slavery Society.\n\nThe indentured labour schemes were particularly opposed by Sturge and the Agency Committee; the full working out of the Act would take several years, with slavery eventually being abolished throughout the British West Indies on 1 August 1838. In response to the new legislation, other members of the Anti-Slavery Society considered their work over. The original purpose, as reflected in the name of the society (abolition in the British dominions), had, they thought, been achieved.\n\nWith abolition of slavery throughout the British dominions achieved, British abolitionists in the Agency Committee of the Anti-Slavery Society considered that a successor organisation was needed to tackle slavery worldwide. Largely under the guidance of Joseph Sturge, the committee duly formed a new society, British and Foreign Anti-Slavery Society on 17 April 1839. It became widely known as the Anti-Slavery Society, as had the earlier society.\n\nThe first secretary was John Harfield Tredgold, the first treasurer, George William Alexander of Stoke Newington. Along with the founding committee, which included the Anglican Thomas Fowell Buxton, the Quaker William Allen, and the Congregationalist Josiah Conder, they organised the first World Anti-Slavery Convention in London in 1840. Thomas Clarkson was the key speaker, and the Convention attracted people from nations around the world where slavery was practiced. In 1944, a Journalist James Ewing Ritchie issued a paper to the society on sugar trade and slavery.\n\nThe convention had been advertised as a \"whole world\" convention, but the delegates representing anti-slavery societies in the United States included several women, among them Lucretia Mott and Elizabeth Cady Stanton, who later were instrumental in the movement for women's rights. Convention leaders refused to seat the women delegates from America, and prominent male abolitionists such as Thomas Knight were outraged. He went on to form his own society. \n\nIn the 1850s, under Louis Chamerovzow, the society helped John Brown write and publish his autobiography a decade before the American Civil War ended slavery in the United States.\n\nThe second secretary of the Anti-Slavery Society, appointed under the honorary secretaries Joseph Cooper and Edmund Sturge, was the Rev. Aaron Buzacott (1829–81), the son of a South Seas missionary also named Aaron Buzacott. With American slavery abolished in 1865, Buzacott worked closely with Joseph Cooper in researching and publishing work designed to help abolish slavery in elsewhere, particularly in the Middle East, Turkey and Africa.\n\nIn 1909, the society merged with the Aborigines' Protection Society to form the Anti-Slavery and Aborigines' Protection Society, whose prominent member was Kathleen Simon, Viscountess Simon. In 1990 the name was changed to Anti-Slavery International.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2132949", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2132949", "title": "Hermann Plauson", "text": "Hermann Plauson\n\nHermann Plauson was an Estonian professor, engineer and inventor. Plauson investigated, among other things, the production of power based on atmospheric electricity.\n\nPlauson was the director of the Fischer-Tropsch \"\"Otto Traun Research Laboratories\"\" in Hamburg, Germany during the Weimar Republic of the 1920s. He built on Nikola Tesla's idea for connecting machinery to the \"wheelwork of nature\". Plauson's patent no. 1540998 describe methods to convert alternating radiant static electricity into rectified continuous current pulses. His systems mainly involved needle & radium- coated electricity conducting balloons or aerostats which were connected to complex converting systems consisting of coils, capacitors, spark gaps etc. He developed an electrostatic generator called \"Plauson's converter\". In 1920, Plauson published a research journal on the subject, titled \"Production and Utilization of the Atmospheric Electricity\" (Gr., \"Gewinnung und Verwertung der Atmosphärischen Elektrizität\").\nA second, expanded edition of his journal was published later the same year. A copy of that edition is in the British Library at shelf mark 8754.b.36. A copy is also available in PDF-format, complete with Optical Character Recognition, through the books2ebooks service, here.\n\nIt is believed that Plauson was related to \"Gertrud Plauson\" (the exact relationship is unknown; she may have been his wife).\n\nPersonal patents<br>\n\"American\"\n\"Other\"\nCompany patents (Traun's Forschungs laboratorium)\n\n"}
{"id": "2132954", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2132954", "title": "Gavin Hamilton (cricketer)", "text": "Gavin Hamilton (cricketer)\n\nGavin Mark Hamilton (born 16 September 1974) is an all-round cricketer who played One Day Internationals and Twenty20 Internationals for Scotland and one Test for England.\n\nHe began his senior career in 1993, taking 5–65 in the first innings of his first-class debut, Scotland's annual game against Ireland. He also played a few times that year for Yorkshire's Second XI, making his first-team debut for the county in 1994. He took a few years to become established in the side, but by 1998 was an important team member: that summer he took 59 first-class wickets at 20.54 as well as scoring six fifties, and claimed 34 one-day scalps at 18.94.\n\nIn 1999, Hamilton represented Scotland in the 1999 World Cup. His place in the squad was announced late, as there had been a possibility that England would select him for their own World Cup squad, but when this did not happen he was free to play for Scotland. He rose to the occasion well, scoring 217 runs in his five One Day Internationals and holding the innings together on several occasions.\n\nIn 1999–00 England toured South Africa and this time Hamilton was included, his World Cup performances for Scotland having impressed the selectors. He played in the first Test at Johannesburg but had a nightmare match as England slumped to an innings defeat: scoring a pair and taking 0–63 with the ball. He was dropped for the second Test and never played for England again.\n\nHamilton's appearance in England's cause had been brief indeed, but was also to prove costly to him personally, as it meant that he would have to re-qualify to play for Scotland, a process that would take four years. Meanwhile, his domestic form, still good in 2000 as he scored his first century (against Hampshire) fell away to such an extent that in 2002 and 2003 combined he played a total of just six first-team games for Yorkshire.\n\nJoining Durham for 2004, he gradually made his way back into the reckoning, with an unspectacular yet steady season. Having once again become available for Scotland in January, he was immediately recalled to the national team and in November of that year he played exclusively as a batsman in the ICC Intercontinental Cup final against Canada in Sharjah, making 115 as Scotland won by an innings. In 2005 Hamilton appeared a few times for Durham in the totesport League before being loaned to play for the Scottish Saltires in the same competition later in the year.\n\nHamilton was released from his contract with Durham at the end of the 2005 season and continued to combine his work with Caledonian Breweries with playing for Scotland and the Scottish Saltires. In 2008, while playing against Ireland Hamilton scored his maiden One Day International century. After Scotland's poor performance in the 2009 ICC World Cup Qualifiers, Hamilton was appointed captain of the Scottish One Day International team in April 2009, replacing Ryan Watson. Later, in July 2009, in his first match as Scottish captain, while playing against Canada, Hamilton scored his second One Day International century, although in the end Scotland went on to lose the match. The following day, however, Hamilton scored a half-century and led Scotland to victory to square the two match series 1–1.\n\nIn August 2010, Hamilton announced his retirement from the Scotland team.\n\nHamilton still plays amateur cricket, opening the batting for Guiseley CC of the Airedale-Wharfedale Senior Cricket League.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2132961", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2132961", "title": "Yoshi Wada", "text": "Yoshi Wada\n\nYoshimasa \"Yoshi\" Wada (born November 11, 1943), is a Japanese sound installation artist and musician living in the United States. He lived in New York City for many years but now lives in San Francisco, California.\n\nBorn in Japan, Wada joined the Fluxus movement in 1968 after meeting George Maciunas. He also studied with the North Indian vocalist Pandit Pran Nath. Wada's works often incorporate the use of drone and are usually performed at very high volume, allowing for the overtones within the sound to be heard very clearly.\n\nHe frequently performs his own compositions, which feature much freedom of improvisation, on Scottish highland bagpipe and voice, and also employs a number of homemade instruments. These include \"pipe horns\" (very long horn-type instruments made from metal plumbing pipe) as well as large reed instruments involving multiple bagpipe-like pipes connected to a large air compressor; due to their appearance, Wada named these latter instruments \"Alligator\" and \"the Elephantine Crocodile\". His music has been scarcely released on recordings, having seen only two LP releases, on the India Navigation (1982) and FMP labels. \"Lament For The Rise and Fall of Elephantine Crocodile\", \"The Appointed Cloud\" and \"Off the Wall\" were reissued by Japanese labels EM Records and Editions Omega Point in 2008.\n\nWada is also known for his mechanical and robotic installations. In Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania in the mid-1990s, he performed a whimsically entitled piece, \"Lament for the Rise and Fall of Handy-Horn\", in which several compressed-air \"auditory flare\" signals used for nautical emergencies (the \"Handy Horn\" brand named in the title) were sounded for the duration of their usefulness, giving rise to an alarmingly high-decibel air-pressure environment and charged psychoacoustic environment.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2132969", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2132969", "title": "Amidrine", "text": "Amidrine\n\nAmidrine, Midrin, Nodolor, Duradrin, IDA, Migquin, Migrin-A, Migrazone or Epidrine is a combination drug consisting of paracetamol, dichloralphenazone and isometheptene used to treat migraines and severe, refractory headaches.\n\n\nMidrin was discontinued by Caraco Pharmaceuticals as of 2009, after an FDA seizure of 33 drugs manufactured by Caraco Pharmaceuticals due to cGMP (Current Good Manufacturing Practices) violations. Generic forms of Amidrine were also discontinued due to loss of FDA grandfather approval status. Thus, manufacturer interest faded. The discontinued generic forms are: Amidrine (Actavis), Duradrin (Barr), I.D.A (Teva), Migquin (Qualitest), Migrin-A (Prasco) and Migrazone (Breckenridge). However, it is now being manufactured by Macoven Pharmaceuticals and marketed under the name Nodolor, as of April 2014. It can also be obtained through a compounding pharmacy with a doctor's prescription.\n"}
{"id": "2132976", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2132976", "title": "Dutasteride", "text": "Dutasteride\n\nDutasteride, sold under the brand name Avodart among others, is a medication primarily used to treat the symptoms of an enlarged prostate. A few months may be required before benefits occur. It is also used for scalp hair loss in men and as a part of hormone therapy in transgender women. It is taken by mouth.\nCommon side effects include sexual problems, breast tenderness, and breast enlargement. Other side effects include an increased risk of certain forms of prostate cancer, depression, and angioedema. Exposure during pregnancy, including use by the partner of a pregnant women may result in harm to the baby. Dutasteride is a 5α-reductase inhibitor, and hence is a type of antiandrogen. It works by decreasing the production of dihydrotestosterone (DHT), an androgen sex hormone.\nDutasteride was patented in 1993 by GlaxoSmithKline and was approved for medical use in 2001. It is available as a generic medication. A month supply in the United Kingdom costs the NHS about £12 as of 2019. In the United States, the wholesale cost of this amount is about $6.66. In 2017, it was the 276th most commonly prescribed medication in the United States, with more than one million prescriptions.\n\nDutasteride is used for treating benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH); colloquially known as an \"enlarged prostate\". It is approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in the U.S. for this indication.\n\nA 2010 Cochrane review found a 25–26% reduction in the risk of developing prostate cancer with 5α-reductase inhibitor chemoprevention. However, 5α-reductase inhibitors have been found to increase the risk of developing certain rare but aggressive forms of prostate cancer (27% risk increase), although not all studies have observed this. There is insufficient data to determine if they have an effect on the overall risk of death from prostate cancer.\n\nDutasteride is approved for the treatment of male androgenetic alopecia in South Korea and Japan at a dosage of 0.5 mg per day. It has been found in several studies to improve hair growth in men more rapidly and to a greater extent than 2.5 mg/day finasteride. The superior effectiveness of dutasteride relative to finasteride for this indication is considered to be related to the fact that the inhibition of 5α-reductase and consequent prevention of scalp DHT production is more complete with dutasteride. Dutasteride is also used off-label in the treatment of female pattern hair loss.\n\nAlthough no reports specific to dutasteride currently exist, 5α-reductase inhibitors like finasteride have been found to be effective in the treatment of hirsutism (excessive facial and/or body hair growth) in women. In a study of 89 women with hyperandrogenism due to persistent adrenarche syndrome, finasteride produced a 93% reduction in facial hirsutism and a 73% reduction in bodily hirsutism after 2 years of treatment. Other studies using finasteride for hirsutism have also found it to be clearly effective. Dutasteride may be more effective than finasteride for this indication due to the fact that its inhibition of the 5α-reductase enzyme is comparatively more complete.\n\nDutasteride is sometimes used as a component of hormone therapy for transgender women in combination with an estrogen and/or another antiandrogen like spironolactone. It may be useful for treating scalp hair loss or in those who have issues tolerating spironolactone.\n\nDutasteride is provided in the form of soft oil-filled gelatin oral capsules containing 0.5 mg dutasteride each.\n\nWomen who are or who may become pregnant should not handle the drug. Dutasteride can cause birth defects, specifically ambiguous genitalia and undermasculinization, in male fetuses. This is due to its antiandrogenic effects and is seen naturally in 5α-reductase deficiency. As such, women who are pregnant should never take dutasteride. People taking dutasteride should not donate blood to prevent birth defects if a pregnant women receives blood and, due to its long elimination half-life, should also not donate blood for at least 6 months after the cessation of treatment.\n\nChildren and people with known significant hypersensitivity (e.g., serious skin reactions, angioedema) to dutasteride should not take dutasteride.\n\nDutasteride has overall been found to be well tolerated in studies of both men and women, producing minimal side effects. Adverse effects include headache and gastrointestinal discomfort. Isolated reports of menstrual changes, acne, and dizziness also exist. There is a small risk of gynecomastia (breast development or enlargement) in men. The risk of gynecomastia with 5α-reductase inhibitors is about 2.8%.\n\nThe FDA has added a warning to dutasteride about an increased risk of high-grade prostate cancer. While the potential for positive, negative or neutral changes to the potential risk of developing prostate cancer with dutasteride has not been established, evidence has suggested it may temporarily reduce the growth and prevalence of benign prostate tumors, but could also mask the early detection of prostate cancer. The primary area for concern is for patients who may develop prostate cancer whilst taking dutasteride for benign prostatic hyperplasia, which in turn could delay diagnosis and early treatment of the prostate cancer, thereby potentially increasing the risk of these patients developing high-grade prostate cancer. A 2018 meta-analysis found no higher risk of breast cancer with 5α-reductase inhibitors.\n\nSexual dysfunction, such as erectile dysfunction, loss of libido, or reduced semen volume, may occur in 3.4 to 15.8% of men treated with finasteride or dutasteride. This is linked to lower quality of life and can cause stress in relationships. It has been reported that in a subset of men, these adverse sexual side effects may persist even after discontinuation of finasteride or dutasteride. Some have decreased sperm numbers as low as 10% of pretreatment values.\n\nSeveral small studies have reported an association between 5α-reductase inhibitors and depression. However, most studies have not observed this side effect. There have also been reports in a subset of men of long-lasting depression persisting even after discontinuation of dutasteride.\n\nThere is no specific antidote for overdose of dutasteride. Treatment of dutasteride overdose should be based on symptoms and should be supportive. The long elimination half-life of dutasteride should be taken into consideration in the event of an overdose of the medication. Dutasteride has been used in clinical studies at doses of up to 40 mg/day for a week (80 times the therapeutic dosage) and 5 mg/day for 6 months (10 times the therapeutic dosage) with no significant safety concerns or additional side effects, respectively.\n\n5α-Reductase inhibitors can also prevent the formation of neurosteroid metabolites like allopregnanolone from progesterone and hence may reduce or block the sedative, anticonvulsant, anxiolytic, and various other effects of progesterone, particularly in the case of oral progesterone (which is disproportionately converted into these metabolites due to first-pass metabolism).\n\nDutasteride belongs to a class of drugs called 5α-reductase inhibitors, which block the action of the 5α-reductase enzymes that convert testosterone into DHT. It inhibits all three forms of 5α-reductase, and can decrease DHT levels in the blood by up to 98%. Specifically it is a competitive, mechanism-based (irreversible) inhibitor of all three isoforms of 5α-reductase, types I, II, and III ( values are 3.9 nM for type I and 1.8 nM for type II). This is in contrast to finasteride, which is similarly an irreversible inhibitor of 5α-reductase but only inhibits the type II and III isoenzymes. As a result of this difference, dutasteride is able to achieve a reduction in circulating DHT levels of up to 98%, whereas finasteride is able to achieve a reduction of only 65 to 70%. In spite of the differential reduction in circulating DHT levels, the two drugs decrease levels of DHT to a similar extent of approximately 85 to 90% in the prostate gland, where the type II isoform of 5α-reductase predominates.\n\nSince 5α-reductases degrade testosterone to DHT, the inhibition of them could cause an increase in testosterone. However, a 2018 review found that initiation of 5α-reductase inhibitors did not result in a consistent increase in testosterone levels, with some studies showing increases and others showing no change. There was no statistically significant change in testosterone levels from 5α-reductase inhibitors in the overall meta-analysis, though men with lower baseline testosterone levels may a rise in testosterone levels.\n\nIn addition to inhibition of DHT production, 5α-reductase inhibitors like dutasteride are also neurosteroidogenesis inhibitors, preventing the 5α-reductase-mediated biosynthesis of various neurosteroids including allopregnanolone (from progesterone), (from deoxycorticosterone), and 3α-androstanediol (from testosterone). These neurosteroids are potent positive allosteric modulators of the GABA receptor and have been found to possess antidepressant, anxiolytic, and pro-sexual effects in animal research. For this reason, prevention of neurosteroid formation may be involved in the sexual dysfunction and depression that has been associated with 5α-reductase inhibitors like dutasteride.\n\nThe oral bioavailability of dutasteride is approximately 60%. Food does not adversely affect the absorption of dutasteride. Peak plasma levels occur 2 to 3 hours after administration. Levels of dutasteride in semen have been found to be 3 ng/mL, with no significant effects on DHT levels in sexual partners. The drug is extensively metabolized in the liver by CYP3A4. It has three major metabolites, including 6'-hydroxydutasteride, 4'-hydroxydutasteride, and 1,2-dihydrodutasteride; the former two are formed by CYP3A4, while the latter is not. All three metabolites are active; 6'-hydroxydutasteride has similar potency as a 5α-reductase inhibitor to dutasteride, while the other two are less potent. Dutasteride has an extremely long terminal or elimination half-life of about 4 or 5 weeks. The elimination half-life of dutasteride is increased in the elderly (170 hours for men age 20–49 years, 300 hours for men age >70 years). No dosage adjustment is necessary in the elderly nor in renal impairment. Because of its long elimination half-life, dutasteride remains in the body for a long time after discontinuation and can be detected for up to 4 to 6 months. In contrast to dutasteride, finasteride has a short terminal half-life of only 5 to 8 hours. Dutasteride is eliminated mainly in the feces (40%) as metabolites. A small portion (5%) is eliminated unchanged in the urine.\n\nDutasteride, also known as \"N\"-[2,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl]-3-oxo-4-aza-5α-androst-1-ene-17β-carboxamide, is a synthetic androstane steroid and a 4-azasteroid. It is an analogue of finasteride in which the \"tert\"-butyl amide moiety has been replaced with a 2,5-\"bis\"(trifluoromethyl)phenyl group.\n\nDutasteride was patented in 1996 and was first described in the scientific literature in 1997. It was approved by the FDA for the treatment of BPH in November 2001 and was introduced into the United States market the following year under the brand name Avodart. Dutasteride has subsequently been introduced in many other countries, including throughout Europe and South America. The patent protection of dutasteride expired in November 2015 and the drug has since become available in the United States in a variety of low-cost generic formulations.\n\nIt was approved for the treatment of scalp hair loss in South Korea since 2009 and in Japan since 2015. It has not been approved for this indication in the United States, though it is often used off-label.\n\n\"Dutasteride\" is the generic name of the drug and its , , , and .\n\nDutasteride is sold primarily under the brand name Avodart and, in combination with tamsulosin (see dutasteride/tamsulosin), under the brand names Combodart and Duodart. It is also sold under a variety of generic brand names. Dutasteride is also available in combination with alfuzosin under the brand names Alfusin-D and Dutalfa, but only in India.\n\nDutasteride is available widely throughout the world, including in the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom, Ireland, many other European countries, Australia, and South Africa, as well as in Latin America, Asia, and elsewhere. It is available as a generic medication in the United States and other countries.\n\nDutasteride has been studied in combination with bicalutamide in the treatment of prostate cancer. A study found that dutasteride, which blocks the formation of the neurosteroid allopregnanolone from progesterone, is effective in reducing symptoms in women with premenstrual dysphoric disorder.\n"}
{"id": "2133004", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2133004", "title": "Ghilji", "text": "Ghilji\n\nThe Khilji , Ghilji or Gharzai are one of the largest Pashtun tribe. \n\nThe Ghilji at various times became rulers of present Afghanistan region and were the most dominant Pashtun confederacy from c. 1000 AD until 1747 AD, when power shifted to the Durranis.\n\nThe Ghilji Lilizai tribes are also settled in Balochistan ' Khyber Pakhtunkhwa and Hazara Division in Pakistan. Many of the migrating Kochi people of Afghanistan belong to the Ghilji confederacy. Ashraf Ghani Ahmadzai, the current President of Afghanistan, also belongs to the Ghilji tribe.\n\nFrom 1709 to 1738, the Ghilji ruled the Hotak Empire based first in Kandahar, Afghanistan and later, from 1722–1728, in Isfahan, Persia. The founder of the Hotak Empire was Mirwais Hotak. Another famous Ghilji from the 18th century was Azad Khan Afghan, who rose to power from 1752 to 1757 in western Iran.\n\nEtymologically the word \"Ghilji\" is derived from \"ghar-zai\" (), meaning \"born of mountain\".\n\nThe Ghiljis may have descended from the Khalaj people. German orientalist Bernard Dorn, in volume 2 of his book \"The History of Afghans\" which is mainly based on \"Tārīkh-e Khān Jahānī wa Makhzan-e Afghānī\" () of Nimat Allah al-Harawi, supports the Ghilji descent from \"Bibi Mato\", daughter of \"Shaykh Beṭ Nīkə\" (the folkloric leader or ancestor of all Bettani), in the following words:\n\nIn Afghanistan the Ghilji are scattered all over the country but mainly settled around the regions between Zabul and Kabul provinces. The Afghan province of Paktika is considered to be a heartland of the Ghilji tribe. Ghilji sub-tribes in Paktika include the Kharoti, especially in the Sar Hawza and Urgon districts, the Andar and the largest single Ghilji sub-tribe, the Suleimankhel, who are the majority in northern and western areas of Paktika such as; Katawaz. \nAfter the great Ghilji rebellion in 1885–1886, led by Alam Khan Nasher, many members of the Ghilji tribe, such as; the Kharoti sub-tribe and particularly the Nasher clan were exiled from Loya Paktia (Paktia, Paktika and Khost) to Kunduz in the north by Amir Abdur Rahman Khan due to political reasons.\n\n"}
{"id": "2133009", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2133009", "title": "Djezzy", "text": "Djezzy\n\nDjezzy (Arabic:جازي) is Algeria's principal mobile network operator, with a market share of 65% (over 16.49 million subscribers in December 2016) and a network covering 90% of the population (48 wilayas). Djezzy was a subsidiary of the Egyptian company Global Telecom Holding. It acquired Algeria's second GSM license on 11 July 2001, with a bid of $737 million, and was officially launched on February 15, 2002. \n\nIn January 2015, the National Investment Fund (FNI) took control of 51% of the capital of the company while the foreign partner, the Veon Group, retained responsibility for the management of the company.\n\nDjezzy covers 95% of the population across the national territory and its 3G services are deployed in 48 wilayas. Djezzy launched its 4G services, on October 1, 2016, in 20 wilayas and is committed to covering more than 50% of the population by 2021.\n\nDjezzy is engaged in a process of transformation to become the leading digital operator in Algeria and allow customers to navigate the digital world. The company is headed by Vincenzo Nesci Executive Chairman and Matthieu Galvani, Chief Executive Officer.\n\nDjezzy is part of the Veon Group (listed on the Nasdaq Stock Exchange under the symbol VIP), an international communications and technology company guided by a vision built on entrepreneurial roots and whose values are based on customer satisfaction, innovation, partnership and righteousness.\n\nThe company provides a wide range of services such as the prepaid, post-paid, data, value-added services and SUT. \n\nIt has two competitors: the government-owned Mobilis (Algeria) and the privately owned Ooredoo Algeria.\n\n"}
{"id": "2133011", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2133011", "title": "Sellwood, Portland, Oregon", "text": "Sellwood, Portland, Oregon\n\nSellwood-Moreland is a neighborhood on a bluff overlooking the Willamette River in Southeast Portland, Oregon, bordering Westmoreland to the north, Eastmoreland to the east, and the city of Milwaukie to the south. The neighborhood is linked to Southwest Portland across the Willamette by the Sellwood Bridge, the southernmost of Portland's bridges.\n\nSellwood originated as an independent city, as a rival of nearby early Portland on the Donation Land Claim of Reverend John Sellwood, who sold the claim in 1882 to the Sellwood Real Estate Company. The town of Sellwood was incorporated by the Oregon Legislative Assembly on February 25, 1889. It was annexed by the city of Portland in 1893.\n\nSellwood has an amusement park named Oaks Park along the river. A bike trail next to railroad tracks above the river is accessible from Sellwood, and links Milwaukie and downtown Portland. The Oaks Bottom Wildlife Refuge was established in 1988 and has allowed the preservation and protection of numerous species. Walking trails go through the park, traversing woods, meadow and marshland.\n\nMilwaukie Avenue and SE 13th Avenue are the locations of many restaurants, Moreland Theater, specialty retail and neighborhood stores, upscale antique shops, and other stores.\n\n"}
{"id": "2133012", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2133012", "title": "Jaws Wired Shut", "text": "Jaws Wired Shut\n\n\"Jaws Wired Shut\" is the ninth episode of \"The Simpsons\"<nowiki>'</nowiki> thirteenth season. It originally aired on the Fox network in the United States on January 27, 2002. In the episode, Homer's jaw is injured when he collides with a statue of Drederick Tatum. Homer's jaw is wired shut, leaving him unable to speak. At first Marge enjoys Homer's inability to talk, since it makes him a better listener and a more compassionate person. Eventually Marge misses Homer's wild antics. Craving excitement, she enters a demolition derby.\n\nThe episode was written by Matt Selman and directed by Nancy Kruse. The plot idea for the episode was pitched by Selman, as was the setpiece, which originated from a discussion he had with current showrunner Al Jean. Comedian John Kassir guest-starred as one of the gay dogs in the pride parade in the episode. In its original broadcast, the episode was seen by approximately 8.7 million viewers, making it the most watched scripted program on Fox that night. \n\nFollowing its home video release, \"Jaws Wired Shut\" received mostly positive reviews from critics.\n\nWhen the Springfield gay pride parade passes by the Simpsons' house, Santa's Little Helper flirts with one of the gay dogs. Uncomfortable, Homer drags his family to the Springfield Googolplex. After growing impatient at several previews and public service announcements preceding the film, Homer flies into a rampage and demands the movie start. Wielding oversized Kit Kat bars, the ushers chase Homer from the cinema. While Homer is fleeing, his head collides with the fist of a large metal statue of boxer Drederick Tatum.\n\nAt Springfield General Hospital, Dr. Hibbert wires Homer's broken jaw shut, leaving him unable to speak or eat solid food. Homer is forced to listen to his family, which pleases them, especially Marge. Since Homer is so well-behaved, Marge risks attending the annual formal event at the country club. When Homer's jaw wires are removed the next day, he and Marge appear on \"Afternoon Yak\" to discuss his transformation. With the help of the show's hosts, Marge pleads with Homer to abandon his \"reckless ways\" and stay well-behaved. Despite the temptation of an upcoming demolition derby, Homer behaves for Marge's sake.\n\nFive weeks later, Marge — bored with the sudden peace and quiet — enters the demolition derby. When Homer wakes and finds Marge gone, he heads to the derby with the kids to stop her. At first Marge enjoys the derby, but things soon get too dangerous for her. Since he has given up recklessness, Homer has no idea how to save her. Bart has an idea: he orders a can of beer from a vendor. After Homer drinks the beer the way Popeye eats spinach for a burst of energy, he rescues Marge. She makes him promise not to make her the live wire of the family.\n\nThe episode was written by executive producer Matt Selman and directed by Nancy Kruse. It was first broadcast on the Fox network in the United States on January 27, 2002. The episode's setpiece was pitched by Selman, and originated from a discussion he had with current showrunner Al Jean, about \"how much crap there is at the movie theater before the movie actually begins.\" The episode's plot was also pitched by Selman, who had wanted to do an episode with a \"jaws-wired-shut plot\" for a while. It was not until long after the episode was completed that Selman learned that one can in fact talk with one's jaw wired shut. He learned this from fellow \"Simpsons\" writer Brian Kelley, who had had his jaw wired shut once in high school. Kelley joined the writing staff during the writing stage of the episode, however he did not mention that one could talk, since he did not want to \"ruin\" the episode. However, he did say that one should eat a lot before since one will lose weight when their jaw is wired shut. These trivias were subsequently included in the episode.\n\nAccording to Jean, the episode's table read went \"great\" until the third act. The \"Simpsons\" writers found the third act \"pretty challenging\" to write, because by having Homer's jaws wired shut, they \"took [their] funniest character\" and \"remove[d] comedy.\" In the DVD commentary for the episode, Selman described it as \"It's the comedy of saying: 'Oh, he [Homer] can't do all the stuff you want him to do'.\" It was also hard to \"keep the story moving\" back to normal, since they kept having to \"re-use the premise\". The episode features American comedian John Kassir as one of the dogs in the gay pride parade in the beginning of the episode. Barbara Walters and Star Jones, the hosts of \"The View\", were portrayed by American voice-actor Tress MacNeille. In the DVD commentary for the episode, Jean stated that MacNeille is \"very versatile\". Lisa Ling and Joy Behar were portrayed by voice-actor Pamela Hayden.\n\nThe title of the episode was pitched by \"The Simpsons\" writer Max Pross, and is a reference to Stanley Kubrick's 1999 drama film \"Eyes Wide Shut\". According to Jean, the writers chose the title because \"[they] thought it would have been more well-remembered.\" When Homer's jaw is wired shut, he writes words on a portable chalkboard to communicate with people. This is a reference to Anthony Hopkins' character in \"Legends of the Fall\", who, after having a stroke, also communicates with people using a chalkboard. The song used in the ballet scene is \"The Blue Danube Waltz\", which was also used in \"\", another film by Kubrick.\n\nA scene in the episode takes place on the talk show \"Afternoon Yak\", a parody of \"The View\", with the hosts based on \"The View\"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s real-life host Barbara Walters and Joy Behar, and former hosts Lisa Ling and Star Jones. (It is worth noting that the show's portrayal of Behar implies she is Jewish, referring to Homer as \"Homelah,\" when she in fact comes from a Catholic family.) \"The View\"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s audience members are also referenced, and are depicted in the episode as \"giv[ing] a huge response\" to everything in the program. The play that Bart and Homer are rehearsing in the living room was written by American playwright Edward Albee. Near the end of the episode, Homer gains strength by drinking a can of beer. The scene parodies the character Popeye, who gained super-strength from eating spinach. Homer also talks in a manner similar to Popeye after drinking the beer. Marge also resembles Popeye's love interest Olive Oyl in the scene.\n\nAnother scene shows the Simpsons in a movie theater, where Lisa tries to solve the following quiz: \"Name that character: MOT HANKS\". She answers, seemingly obvious, \"Tom Hanks\", while the right answer turns out to be \"Otm Shank\", \"\"India's answer to Brian Dennehy\"\" according to fellow moviegoer Apu.\n\nThe sign on the Springfield Civic Center mentions that the demolition derby was featured in the 1985 film \"Faces of Death III\", an entry in the controversial mondo horror film series \"Faces of Death\".\n\nIn its original U.S. broadcast on January 27, 2002, \"Jaws Wired Shut\" received an 8.7 rating, according to Nielsen Media Research, translating to approximately 8.7 million viewers. The episode finished in 22nd place in the ratings for the week of January 21–27, 2002, making it the most watched scripted program on Fox that night. On August 24, 2010, \"Jaws Wired Shut\" was released as part of \"The Simpsons: The Complete Thirteenth Season\" DVD and Blu-ray set. Matt Groening, Al Jean, Matt Selman, Carolyn Omine, Dana Gould, Joe Mantegna and Pete Michels participated in the audio commentary of the episode.\n\nFollowing its home video release, \"Jaws Wired Shut\" received mostly positive reviews from critics. \n\nStuart O'Conner of Screen Jabber described \"Jaws Wired Shut\", \"The Parent Rap\", \"She of Little Faith\" and \"Poppa's Got a Brand New Badge\" as \"first-rate ep[isodes].\" \n\nGiving the episode a B+, Jennifer Malkowski of DVD Verdict described the episode as having \"nicely gooey family moments.\" She called the \"gay pride parade's 'Salute to Safer Sex' float\" the episode's \"highlight\". \n\nCasey Broadwater of Blu-ray.com gave the episode a positive review as well, calling it \"a welcome return to a more old school \"Simpsons\" storytelling style, capable of being both comical, and, in its own bizarro way, touching.\" \n\nColin Jacobson of DVD Movie Guide wrote \"While Season 13 doesn’t threaten to approach the high standards of the series’ strongest years, episodes like “Shut” help make it better than expected. Sure, it follows fairly predictable patterns, but it develops them in a satisfying comedic manner.\" He concluded his review by writing that the episode's overall \"entertaining,\" even though its ending \"falters.\"\n\nOn the other hand, Ron Martin of 411Mania gave the episode a mixed review, calling it \"uneven at best, mediocre at worst.\" Although he praised the episode's setpiece, Nate Boss of Project-Blu gave the episode an overall negative review, writing: \"With a hilarious take on movie theaters to start the episode, the duldrum of the rest can be forgiven...almost.\" \n\nAdam Rayner of Obsessed with Film wrote that the episode was \"woefully weak\" and felt \"contrived, rushed and handled by hacks.\" He added that the episode was \"Dull\".\n\nIn an article on gay marriage, \"The Economist\" references the Simpsons' blasé acceptance of the annual Springfield gay pride parade in this episode as being \"a few steps ahead of real life. But only a few\".\n\nMatt Selman was nominated for the at the 55th Writers Guild of America Awards for his script to this episode.\n\n"}
{"id": "2133016", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2133016", "title": "Gatas Parlament", "text": "Gatas Parlament\n\nGatas Parlament () is a Norwegian group of rap artists. It currently consists of artists Elling Borgersrud and Jester. The group was the first to release a hiphop-recording in their native language, Norwegian. All current and former members have strong left-leaning political views, and make their feelings on many things, including American president George W. Bush, a common motif in their lyrics.\n\nElling Borgersrud has stood for national election as a minor political candidate for the Red Electoral Alliance.\n\nGatas Parlament started out in 1993, taking the name Kveldens Høydepunkt (\"Highlight of the Evening\"). Don Martin did not take to the name, however, and thus it was dropped. Later, they attended a public speech by Carl I. Hagen, the chairman of the right-wing party Fremskrittspartiet, where they threw eggs and rotten fruit at Hagen. This caused Hagen to comment that \"gatens parlament\" ruled the country, and the three rappers stuck with the name (the riksmål-wording of \"gaten\" was dropped for \"gata\", more fitting for their sociolect).\n\nThe band caused controversy in Norway with their video \"Antiamerikansk Dans\" (Anti-American Dance) together with the Swedish rap artist Promoe and their website killhim.nu (\"Kill him Now\"), which claimed to collect money for a bounty on the head of George W. Bush. The campaign caused the American embassy in Norway to react, and prompted a Secret Service and Norwegian Police investigation into the band. The website was subsequently shut down. The case was dropped after months of controversy in Norwegian and European media.\n\nDuring 2007 Gatas Parlament launched a collaboration with \"Hopalong Knut\", a ska band from Trondheim which uses trønder dialect. When the two groups perform together, they call themselves \"Samvirkelaget\" ().\n\nIn 2011 founding member Aslak Borgersrud (brother of Elling Borgersrud) quit the band to pursue other interests and was replaced with Jester (Alex Molkom), who had been working as a producer and guest rapper for the band for years. Don Martin left the band in 2015 with some controversy after a period focusing on solo projects.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2133020", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2133020", "title": "World Wide Recorder Concert", "text": "World Wide Recorder Concert\n\n\"World Wide Recorder Concert\" (also referred to as \"The Brown Noise\") is the seventeenth and final episode of the third season of the animated television series \"South Park\". It was originally broadcast on January 12, 2000. In the episode, the boys feud with children from New York at a gathering of elementary school students for a recorder concert. Meanwhile, Mr. Garrison confronts his father.\n\nFour million children, including those from Mr. Garrison's class, are scheduled to play \"My Country, 'Tis of Thee\" at the televised Worldwide Recorder Concert in Oklahoma City led by Yoko Ono and Kenny G, but a flood caused the concert to be relocated to Little Rock, Mr. Garrison's hometown. This causes him considerable anxiety (as he confesses to Mr. Mackey) for he had \"sexual molestation issues\" with his father in the past.\n\nIn Arkansas, the boys encounter a hostile group of kids from New York City, also there for the concert, who call them \"queefs\". At first, the boys do not understand what \"queef\" means; assuming the New York kids had made the word up, the boys try to get back at them by making up their own word: mung, which as it turns out, is a real word meaning \"the stuff that comes out when you push down on a pregnant woman's stomach.\" Even the other South Park kids know this word, leading to the four being jeered by both the New Yorkers and their own classmates.\n\nMeanwhile, Mr. Garrison has confronted his father about the issues of sexual molestation; however, the issue was not that his dad had molested him, but rather that he felt neglected because his father had \"not\" molested him. When Mr. Mackey finds out about this, he fears Mr. Garrison is so distraught about the issue that he could actually die if Mr. Garrison Sr. does not molest him.\n\nOn the night before the concert, the boys want to find a way to get back at the New York kids, and when Cartman succeeds in his efforts to discover the legendary \"brown noise\", a sound made with the recorder that causes the listener to lose control of their bowels and \"crap their pants\", the boys plan to trick the New York kids into playing it. However, by accident, the altered sheet music for the concert is discovered by the organizer of the concert and is photocopied and redistributed to everyone. Later that night, Mr. Garrison is assaulted in the middle of the night by a mysterious stranger, and he sets off for the concert happy to have sorted things out with his father. After he leaves, Kenny G exits a closet and refuses $100 from Mr. Garrison's father, revealing that Kenny G is actually the one who molested Mr. Garrison that night.\n\nDuring the concert, the boys discover that everyone is playing the altered sheet music containing the brown note, and they race to stop the concert. But they are too late and the note is played, and with the power of four million recorders behind it, everyone in the world ends up defecating in their pants, whether they are watching the broadcast or otherwise. Some, e.g. Kenny, soil themselves to death (although, at the end of episode, Kenny is seen, alive and healthy, in the bus with the other kids). On the way back to the bus, Mr. Mackey briefly explains to the boys what a queef is, describing it as \"a vaginal expulsion of gas, m'kay.\" Shortly after the incident, the New York kids show up again, but they become very impressed by the boys' prank and take back the negative feelings directed at them. Afterwards, Mr. Garrison is passionately kissed by Kenny G before leaving and thanks him, noting that he kisses just like his father, and the class then leaves and drives off into the stars.\n\nThis was the first episode of South Park to be rated 18 in the UK for its video/DVD-release, due to the subplot in which Mr. Garrison wants to be sexually molested by his father. It remained the only episode to have the 18 certificate until the seventh season of South Park finally got its DVD set, due to the audio commentary on the third disc. On the 2008 Paramount Season 3 DVD set, \"World Wide Recorder Concert\" was lowered to a 15 rating in the UK.\n\n"}
{"id": "2133026", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2133026", "title": "Sellwood", "text": "Sellwood\n\nSellwood may refer to:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2133061", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2133061", "title": "Laizhou Bay", "text": "Laizhou Bay\n\nLaizhou Bay () is a bay on the southern shore of the Bohai Sea (also known as the \"Bohai Gulf\", or just \"Bo Hai\", which is a large and relatively shallow westward extension of the northern Yellow Sea), bounded by the northwestern coastline of the Shandong Peninsula west of the Port of Longkou and the eastern coastline of Dongying south of the Yellow River estuary. It is named after the county-level city of Laizhou to its east, and is the smallest of the three main bays of the Bohai Sea (the other two being the Liaodong Bay to the north, and the Bohai Bay to the west).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2133090", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2133090", "title": "Robert S. Langer", "text": "Robert S. Langer\n\nRobert Samuel Langer, Jr. FREng (born August 29, 1948) is an American chemical engineer, scientist, entrepreneur, inventor and one of the twelve Institute Professors at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.\n\nHe was formerly the Germeshausen Professor of Chemical and Biomedical Engineering and maintains activity in the Department of Chemical Engineering and the Department of Biological Engineering at MIT. He is also a faculty member of the Harvard–MIT Program in Health Sciences and Technology and the Koch Institute for Integrative Cancer Research.\n\nHe is a widely recognized and cited researcher in biotechnology, especially in the fields of drug delivery systems and tissue engineering. His publications have been cited over 305,000 times and his h-index is 272. According to Google Scholar, Langer is one of the 10 most cited individuals in history. (Tied for 7 most cited in history; he is the 5 most cited of any living individual). He is the most cited engineer in history. Langer's research laboratory at MIT is the largest biomedical engineering lab in the world; maintaining over $10 million in annual grants and over 100 researchers.\n\nIn 2015, Langer was awarded the Queen Elizabeth Prize for Engineering.\n\nLanger was born August 29, 1948 in Albany, New York, USA. He is an alumnus of The Milne School and received his bachelor's degree from Cornell University in chemical engineering. He earned his Sc.D. in chemical engineering from MIT in 1974. His dissertation was entitled \"Enzymatic regeneration of ATP\" and completed under the direction of Clark K. Colton. From 1974–1977 he worked as a postdoctoral fellow for cancer researcher Judah Folkman at the Children's Hospital Boston and at Harvard Medical School. Langer credits Folkman as a fantastic role model. Langer and his wife, Laura, a fellow MIT graduate, have three children.\n\nLanger is widely regarded for his contributions to medicine and biotechnology. He is considered a pioneer of many new technologies, including controlled release systems and transdermal delivery systems, which allow the administration of drugs or extraction of analytes from the body through the skin without needles or other invasive methods.\n\nLanger worked with Judah Folkman at Boston Children's Hospital to isolate the first angiogenesis inhibitor, a macromolecule to block the spread of blood vessels in tumors. Macromolecules tend to be broken down by digestion and blocked by body tissues if they are injected or inhaled, so finding a delivery system for them is difficult. Langer's idea was to encapsulate the angiogenesis inhibitor in a noninflammatory synthetic polymer system that could be implanted in the tumor and control the release of the inhibitor. He eventually invented polymer systems that would work. This discovery is considered to lay the foundation for much of today's drug delivery technology.\n\nHe also worked with Henry Brem of the Johns Hopkins University Medical School on a drug-delivery system for the treatment of brain cancer, to deliver chemotherapy directly to a tumor site. The wafers or chips that he and his teams have designed have become increasingly more sophisticated, and can now deliver multiple drugs, and respond to stimuli.\n\nLanger is regarded as the founder of tissue engineering in regenerative medicine. He and the researchers in his lab have made advances in tissue engineering, such as the creation of engineered blood vessels and vascularized engineered muscle tissue. Bioengineered synthetic polymers provide a scaffolding on which new skin, muscle, bone, and entire organs can be grown. With such a substrate in place, victims of serious accidents or birth defects could more easily grow missing tissue. Such polymers can be biocompatible and biodegradable.\n\nLanger is involved in several projects related to diabetes. Alongside Daniel G. Anderson, he has contributed bioengineering work to a project involving teams from MIT, Harvard University and other institutions, to produce an implantable device to treat type 1 diabetes by shielding insulin-producing beta cells from immune system attacks. He is also part of a team at MIT that have developed a drug capsule that could be used to deliver oral doses of insulin to people with type 1 diabetes.\n\nLanger holds over 1,350 granted or pending patents. He is one of the world's most highly cited researchers, having authored nearly 1,500 scientific papers, and has participated in the founding of multiple technology companies.\n\nLanger is the youngest person in history (at 43) to be elected to all three American science academies: the National Academy of Sciences, the National Academy of Engineering and the Institute of Medicine. He was also elected as a charter member of National Academy of Inventors. He was elected as an International Fellow of the Royal Academy of Engineering in 2010.\n\nLanger has received more than 220 major awards. He is one of four living individuals to have received both the U.S. National Medal of Science and the National Medal of Technology and Innovation.\n\nHe has received numerous other awards, including the Gairdner Foundation International Award (1996), the Lemelson-MIT Prize for invention and innovation (1998), the Othmer Gold Medal (2002), the 10th Annual Heinz Award in the category of Technology, the Economy and Employment (2003), the Harvey Prize in Science & Technology and Human Health (2003), the Dan David Prize (2005) and the Albany Medical Center Prize in Medicine and Biomedical Research (2005). In 2013 he was awarded the IRI Medal alongside long-time friend George M. Whitesides for outstanding accomplishments in technological innovation that have contributed broadly to the development of industry and the benefit of society. He also received the Rusnano prize that year. He has also given 137 named lectures and commencement speeches.\n\nLanger has honorary degrees from 34 universities from around the world including Harvard and Yale.\n\nRobert Langer has been involved in the founding of many companies, more than twenty in partnership with the venture capital firm Polaris Partners. Success of these companies and Langer's contribution has been detailed by Harvard Business Review:\n\n\nLanger is a member of the Advisory Board of Patient Innovation, a nonprofit, international, multilingual, free venue for patients and caregivers of any disease to share their innovations. He is also a member of the Xconomists, an ad hoc team of editorial advisors for the tech news and media company, Xconomy. Additionally, Langer is a member of the scientific advisory team for the 3D bioprinting company Allevi.\n\nLanger is featured in two different exhibits at Boston's Logan Airport. At terminal C (near Gate 8) in the exhibit '4 centuries of Massachusetts Innovation', Langer and Judah Folkman are listed for 'Cancer breakthrough-1st cancer blood vessel inhibitor'. In terminal E, Massachusetts innovators-Transforming the world, Langer is featured as \"Revolutionary Biomedical Technology through Development of Controlled Drug Delivery Systems\" (near Gate 12).\n\n"}
{"id": "2133097", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2133097", "title": "Loracarbef", "text": "Loracarbef\n\nLoracarbef is an antibiotic. It is a carbacephem, but it is sometimes grouped together with the second-generation cephalosporin antibiotics. Loracarbef is a synthetic \"carba\" analog of cefaclor, and is more stable. \n\nLoracarbef received FDA approval in 1991 and it was marketed under the trade name Lorabid. Its use was discontinued in 2006. \n\nDiarrhea is the most common adverse effect with loracarbef. Side effects are more frequently seen with children under the age of twelve. \n\n"}
{"id": "2133111", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2133111", "title": "Jean Little", "text": "Jean Little\n\nJean Little, CM (January 2, 1932 – April 6, 2020) was an award-winning Canadian writer of over 50 books. Her work mainly consisted of children's literature, but she also wrote two autobiographies: \"Little by Little\" and \"Stars Come Out Within\". Little was partially blind since birth as a result of scars on her cornea and was frequently accompanied by a guide dog.\n\nHer childhood home, 234 Woolwich street in Guelph, is now a SpeedyGlass. She mentioned the address in \"Orphan At My Door\" in the picture section of the book.\n\nLittle was born in Formosa, the daughter of Flora (Gauls), a doctor, and John Llewellyn Little, a physician. Her parents were Canadian doctors serving as medical missionaries under the United Church of Canada. The Little family came home to live in Canada in 1939, moving to Guelph in 1940. Although Little was legally blind from birth, she attended elementary and secondary school in regular classes. She went to the University of Toronto and obtained a Bachelor of Arts in English Language and Literature.\n\nAfter teaching disabled children for several years, Little wrote her first children's novel, \"Mine for Keeps\", about a child with cerebral palsy. It won the Little, Brown Canadian Children's Book Award and was published in 1962. She has subsequently written over 50 published works, which include novels, picture books, poetry, short stories, and two autobiographical books. Her novel \"His Banner Over Me\" is based on her mother's childhood. Little won literary awards for her work and has been published internationally.\n\nLittle taught Children's Literature at the University of Guelph, where she was an Adjunct Professor in the Department of English. She had six honorary degrees, was a Member of the Order of Canada and a recipient of the Queen's Diamond Jubilee Medal. Jean Little Public School, in Guelph, Ont. is named in her honour.\n\nShe journeyed widely talking to both adults and children themselves about the joys to be found through reading and writing. In March 2004, she went to India and in November 2006 to Bulgaria. Little gave the 2016 Margaret Lawrence Lecture at the Canadian Writers Summit in June.\n\nAs of 2016, Little resided in Guelph, Ontario with her sister Pat deVries, her great-niece Jeanie, and her great-nephew Ben. She continued to write through the aid of a voice-activated computer and travelled with her guide dog Honey. She died on April 6, 2020 at age 88.\n\nSeveral of Little's books, such as \"Mine for Keeps\" and \"From Anna\", focus on children who have a disability or are affected by a person with a disability. As many of her books were written several decades ago, they now serve as examples of how children with disabilities were previously raised and treated by society. Another frequent theme is adoption and foster care, as shown in \"Home from Far\" and \"Willow and Twig\". Children often find homes and families throughout the course of the novel, whether it consists of rediscovering the importance of their family, being reunited with family or creating a new family in their new situation. While the novels often touch on very sad events, ranging from serious illness, abuse and death, the endings are usually positive and show the resilience of children.\n\n"}
{"id": "2133117", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2133117", "title": "Viking art", "text": "Viking art\n\nViking art, also known commonly as Norse art, is a term widely accepted for the art of Scandinavian Norsemen and Viking settlements further afield—particularly in the British Isles and Iceland—during the Viking Age of the 8th-11th centuries CE. Viking art has many design elements in common with Celtic, Germanic, the later Romanesque and Eastern European art, sharing many influences with each of these traditions.\n\nGenerally speaking, the current knowledge of Viking art relies heavily upon more durable objects of metal and stone; wood, bone, ivory and textiles are more rarely preserved; human skin, which historical sources indicate was often elaborately tattooed, is nowhere extant and is unlikely to have survived. The artistic record therefore, as it has survived to the present day, remains significantly incomplete. Ongoing archaeological excavation and opportunistic finds, of course, may improve this situation in the future, as indeed they have in the recent past.\n\nViking art is usually divided into a sequence of roughly chronological styles, although outside Scandinavia itself local influences are often strong, and the development of styles can be less clear.\n\nThe Vikings' regional origins lay in Scandinavia, the northern-most peninsula of continental Europe, while the term 'Viking' likely derived from their own term for coastal raiding—the activity by which many neighbouring cultures became acquainted with the inhabitants of the region.\n\nViking raiders attacked wealthy targets on the north-western coasts of Europe from the late 8th until the mid-11th century CE. Pre-Christian traders and sea raiders, the Vikings first enter recorded history with their attack on the Christian monastic community on Lindisfarne Island in 793.\n\nThe Vikings initially employed their longships to invade and attack European coasts, harbours and river settlements on a seasonal basis. Subsequently, Viking activities diversified to include trading voyages to the east, west and south of their Scandinavian homelands, with repeated and regular voyages following river systems east into Russia and the Black and Caspian Sea regions, and west to the coastlines of the British Isles, Iceland and Greenland. Evidence exists for Vikings reaching Newfoundland well before the later voyages of Christopher Columbus came to the New World.\n\nTrading and merchant activities were accompanied by settlement and colonisation in many of these territories.\n\nWood was undoubtedly the primary material of choice for Viking artists, being relatively easy to carve, inexpensive and abundant in northern Europe. The importance of wood as an artistic medium is underscored by chance survivals of wood artistry at the very beginning and end of the Viking period, namely, the Oseberg ship-burial carvings of the early 9th century and the carved decoration of the Urnes Stave Church from the 12th century. As summarised by James Graham-Campbell: \"These remarkable survivals allow us to form at least an impression of what we are missing from original corpus of Viking art, although wooden fragments and small-scale carvings in other materials (such as antler, amber and walrus ivory) provide further hints. The same is inevitably true of the textile arts, although weaving and embroidery were clearly well-developed crafts.\"\n\nWith the exception of the Gotlandic picture stones prevalent in Sweden early in the Viking period, stone carving was apparently not practiced elsewhere in Scandinavia until the mid-10th century and the creation of the royal monuments at Jelling in Denmark. Subsequently, and likely influenced by the spread of Christianity, the use of carved stone for permanent memorials became more prevalent.\n\nBeyond the discontinuous artifactual records of wood and stone, the reconstructed history of Viking art to date relies most on the study of decoration of ornamental metalwork from a great variety of sources. Several types of archaeological context have succeeded in preserving metal objects for present study, while the durability of precious metals in particular has preserved much artistic expression and endeavour.\n\nJewellery was worn by both men and women, though of different types. Married women fastened their overdresses near the shoulder with matching pairs of large brooches. Modern scholars often call them \"tortoise brooches\" because of their domed shape. The shapes and styles of women's paired brooches varied regionally, but many used openwork. Women often strung metal chains or strings of beads between the brooches, or suspended ornaments from the bottom of the brooches. Men wore rings on their fingers, arms and necks, and held their cloaks closed with penannular brooches, often with extravagantly long pins. Their weapons were often richly decorated on areas such as sword hilts. The Vikings mostly used silver or bronze jewellery, the latter sometimes gilded, but a small number of large and lavish pieces or sets in solid gold have been found, probably belonging to royalty or major figures.\n\nDecorated metalwork of an everyday nature is frequently recovered from Viking period graves, on account of the widespread practice of making burials accompanied by grave goods. The deceased was dressed in their best clothing and jewellery, and was interred with weapons, tools, and household goods. Less common, but significant nonetheless, are finds of precious metal objects in the form of treasure hoards, many apparently concealed for safe-keeping by owners later unable to recover their contents, although some may have been deposited as offerings to the gods.\n\nRecently, given the increasing popularity and legality of metal-detecting, an increasing frequency of single, chance finds of metal objects and ornaments (most probably representing accidental losses) is creating a fast expanding corpus of new material for study.\n\nViking coins fit well into this latter category, but nonetheless form a separate category of Viking period artefact, their design and decoration largely independent of the developing styles characteristic of wider Viking artistic endeavour.\n\nA non-visual source of information for Viking art lies in skaldic verse, the complex form of oral poetry composed during the Viking Age and passed on until written down centuries later. Several verses speak of painted forms of decoration that have but rarely survived on wood and stone. The 9th century skald poet Bragi Boddason, for example, cites four apparently unrelated scenes painted on a shield. One of these scenes depicted the god Thor's fishing expedition, which motif is also referenced in a 10th-century poem by Úlfr Uggason describing the paintings in a newly constructed hall in Iceland.\n\nA continuous artistic tradition common to most of north-western Europe and developing from the 4th century CE formed the foundations on which Viking Age art and decoration were built: from that period onwards, the output of Scandinavian artists was broadly focused on varieties of convoluted animal ornamentation used to decorate a wide variety of objects.\n\nThe art historian Bernhard Salin was the first to systematise Germanic animal ornament, dividing it into three styles (I, II and III). The latter two were subsequently subdivided by Arwidsson into three further styles: Style C, flourishing during the 7th century and into the 8th century, before being largely replaced (especially in southern Scandinavia) by Style D. Styles C and D provided the inspiration for the initial expression of animal ornament within the Viking Age, Style E, commonly known as the Oseberg / Broa Style. Both Styles D and E developed within a broad Scandinavian context which, although in keeping with north-western European animal ornamentation generally, exhibited little influence from beyond Scandinavia.\n\nAlthough preliminary formulations were made in the late 19th century, the history of Viking art first achieved maturity in the early 20th century with the detailed publication of the ornate wood-carvings discovered in 1904 as part of the Oserberg ship-burial by the Norwegian archaeologist Haakon Shetelig.\n\nImportantly, it was the English archaeologist David M. Wilson, working with his Danish colleague Ole Klindt-Jensen to produce the 1966 survey work \"Viking Art\", who created foundations for the systematic characterisation of the field still employed today, together with a developed chronological framework.\n\nDavid Wilson continued to produce mostly English-language studies on Viking art in subsequent years, joined over recent decades by the Norwegian art-historian Signe Horn Fuglesang with her own series of important publications. Together these scholars have combined authority with accessibility to promote the increasing understanding of Viking art as a cultural expression.\n\nThe art of the Viking Age is organised into a loose sequence of stylistic phases which, despite significant overlap in style and chronology, may be defined and distinguished on account both of formal design elements and of recurring compositions and motifs:\n\nUnsurprisingly, these stylistic phases appear in their purest form in Scandinavia itself; elsewhere in the Viking world, notable admixtures from external cultures and influences frequently appear. In the British Isles, for example, art historians identify distinct, 'Insular' versions of Scandinavian motifs, often directly alongside 'pure' Viking decoration.\n\nThe Oseberg Style characterises the initial phase in what has been considered Viking art. The Oseberg Style takes its name from the Oseberg Ship grave, a well-preserved and highly decorated longship discovered in a large burial mound at the Oseberg farm near Tønsberg in Vestfold, Norway, which also contained a number of other richly decorated wooden objects.\n\nA characteristic motif of the Oseberg Style is the so-called \"gripping beast\". This motif is what clearly distinguishes the early Viking art from the styles that preceded it. The chief features of the gripping beast are the paws that grip the borders around it, neighbouring beasts or parts of its own body. \n\nCurrently located at the Viking Ship Museum, Bygdøy, and over 70 feet long, the Oseberg Ship held the remains of two women and many precious objects that were probably removed by robbers early before it was found. The Oseberg ship itself is decorate with a more traditional style of animal interlace that does not feature the gripping beast motif. However, five carved wooden animal-head posts were found in the ship, and the one known as the \"Carolingian animal-head post\" is decorated with gripping beasts, as are other grave goods from the ship. The Carolingian head represents a snarling beast, possibly a wolf, with surface ornamentation in the form of interwoven animals that twist and turn as they are gripping and snapping. \n\nThe Oseberg style is also characterized by traditions from the Vendel era, and it is nowadays not always accepted as an independent style.\n\nBorre Style embraces a range of geometric interlace / knot patterns and zoomorphic (single animal) motifs, first recognised in a group of gilt-bronze harness mounts recovered from a ship grave in Borre mound cemetery near the village of Borre, Vestfold, Norway, and from which the name of the style derives. Borre Style prevailed in Scandinavia from the late 9th through to the late 10th century, a timeframe supported by dendrochronological data supplied from sites with characteristically Borre Style artifacts\n\nThe 'gripping beast' with a ribbon-shaped body continues as a characteristic of this and earlier styles. As with geometric patterning in this phase, the visual thrust of the Borre Style results from the filling of available space: ribbon animal plaits are tightly interlaced and animal bodies are arranged to create tight, closed compositions. As a result, any background is markedly absent – a characteristic of the Borre Style that contrasts strongly with the more open and fluid compositions that prevailed in the overlapping Jellinge Style.\n\nA more particular diagnostic feature of Borre Style lies in a symmetrical, double-contoured 'ring-chain' (or 'ring-braid'), whose composition consists of interlaced circles separated by transverse bars and a lozenge overlay. The Borre ring-chain occasionally terminates with an animal head in high relief, as seen on strap fittings from Borre and Gokstad.\n\nThe ridges of designs in metalwork are often nicked to imitate the filigree wire employed in the finest pieces of craftsmanship.\n\nThe Jellinge Style is a phase of Scandinavian animal art during the 10th century. The style is characterized by markedly stylized and often band-shaped bodies of animals. It was originally applied to a complex of objects in Jelling, Denmark, such as Harald Bluetooth's great runestone, but more recently the style is included in Mammen style.\n\nMammen Style takes its name from its type object, an axe recovered from a wealthy male burial marked a mound (Bjerringhø) at Mammen, in Jutland, Denmark (on the basis of dendrochronology, the wood used in construction of the grave chamber was felled in winter 970–971). Richly decorated on both sides with inlaid silver designs, the iron axe was probably a ceremonial parade weapon that was the property of a man of princely status, his burial clothes bearing elaborate embroidery and trimmed with silk and fur.\nOn one face, the Mammen axe features a large bird with pelleted body, crest, circular eye, and upright head and beak with lappet. A large shell-spiral marks the bird's hip, from which point its thinly elongated wings emerge: the right wing interlaces with the bird's neck, while the left wing interlaces with its body and tail. The outer wing edge displays a semi-circular nick typical of Mammen Style design. The tail is rendered as a triple tendril, the particular treatment of which on the Mammen axe – with open, hook-like ends – forming a characteristic of the Mammen Style as a whole. Complicating the design is the bird's head-lappet, interlacing twice with neck and right wing, whilst also sprouting tendrils along the blade edge. At the top, near the haft, the Mammen axe features an interlaced knot on one side, a triangular human mask (with large nose, moustache and spiral beard) on the other; the latter would prove a favoured Mammen Style motif carried over from earlier styles.\n\nOn the other side, the Mammen axe bears a spreading foliate (leaf) design, emanating from spirals at the base with thin, 'pelleted' tendrils spreading and intertwining across the axe head towards the haft.\n\nThe Ringerike Style receives its name from the Ringerike district north of Oslo, Norway, where the local reddish sandstone was widely employed for carving stones with designs of the style.\nThe type object most commonly used to define Ringerike Style is a high carved stone from Vang in Oppland. Apart from a runic memorial inscription on its right edge, the main field of the Vang Stone is filled with a balanced tendril ornament springing from two shell spirals at the base: the main stems cross twice to terminate in lobed tendrils. At the crossing, further tendrils spring from loops and pear-shaped motifs appear from the tendril centres on the upper loop. Although axial in conception, a basic asymmetry arises in the deposition of the tendrils. Surmounting the tendril pattern appears a large striding animal in double-contoured rendering with spiral hips and a lip lappet. Comparing the Vang Stone animal design with the related animal from the Mammen axe-head, the latter lacks the axiality seen in the Vang Stone and its tendrils are far less disciplined: the Mammen scroll is wavy, while the Vang scroll appears taut and evenly curved, these features marking a key difference between Mammen and Ringerike ornament. The inter-relationship between the two styles is obvious, however, when comparing the Vang Stone animal with that found on the Jelling Stone.\nWith regard to metalwork, Ringerike Style is best seen in two copper-gilt weather-vanes, from Källunge, Gotland and from Söderala, Hälsingland, both in Sweden. The former displays one face two axially-constructed loops in the form of snakes, which in turn sprout symmetrically-placed tendrils. The snake heads, as well as the animal and snake on the reverse, find more florid treatment than on the Vang Stone: all have lip lappets, the snakes bear pigtails, while all animals have a pear-shaped eye with the point directed towards the snout – a diagnostic feature of Ringerike Style.\n\nThe Ringerike Style is a Scandinavian animal style from the late 10th century and the 11th century, which evolved out of the earlier Mammen Style. It has received its name from a group of runestones with animal and plant motifs in the Ringerike district north of Oslo. The most common motifs are lions, birds, band-shaped animals and spirals. Some elements appear for the first time in Scandinavian art, such as different types of crosses, palmettes and pretzel-shaped nooses that tie together two motifs. Most of the motifs have counterparts in Anglo-Saxon art and Ottonian art.\n\nThe Urnes Style was the last phase of Scandinavian animal art during the second half of the 11th century and in the early 12th century. The Urnes Style is named after the northern gate of the Urnes stave church in Norway, but most objects in the style are runestones in Uppland, Sweden, which is why some scholars prefer to call it the \"Runestone style\".\n\nThe style is characterized by slim and stylised animals that are interwoven into tight patterns. The animals heads are seen in profile, they have slender almond-shaped eyes and there are upwardly curled appendages on the noses and the necks.\n\nThe early style has received a dating which is mainly based on runestone U 343, runestone U 344 and a silver bowl from c. 1050, which was found at Lilla Valla. The early version of this style on runestones comprises England Runestones referring to the Danegeld and Canute the Great and works by Åsmund Kåresson.\n\nThe mid-Urnes Style has received a relatively firm dating based on its appearance on coins issued by Harald Hardrada (1047–1066) and by Olav Kyrre (1080–1090). Two wood carvings from Oslo have been dated to c. 1050–1100 and the Hørning plank is dated by dendrochronology to c. 1060–1070. There is, however, evidence suggesting that the mid-Urnes style was developed before 1050 in the manner it is represented by the runemasters Fot and Balli.\n\nThe mid-Urnes Style would stay popular side-by-side with the late Urnes style of the runemaster Öpir. He is famous for a style in which the animals are extremely thin and make circular patterns in open compositions. This style was not unique to Öpir and Sweden, but it also appears on a plank from Bølstad and on a chair from Trondheim, Norway.\n\nThe Jarlabanke Runestones show traits both from this late style and from the mid-Urnes style of Fot and Balli, and it was the Fot-Balli type that would mix with the Romanesque style in the 12th century.\n\nThe Urnes-Romanesque Style does not appear on runestones which suggests that the tradition of making runestones had died out when the mixed style made its appearance since it is well represented in Gotland and on the Swedish mainland. The Urnes-Romanesque Style can be dated independently of style thanks to representations from Oslo in the period 1100–1175, dendrochronological dating of the Lisbjerg frontal in Denmark to 1135, as well as Irish reliquaries that are dated to the second half of the 12th century.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2133120", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2133120", "title": "1934–35 in Swedish football", "text": "1934–35 in Swedish football\n\nThe 1934–35 season in Swedish football, starting August 1934 and ending July 1935:\n\n Sweden: \n\nPrint\n\nOnline\n"}
{"id": "2133123", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2133123", "title": "1935–36 in Swedish football", "text": "1935–36 in Swedish football\n\nThe 1935–36 season in Swedish football, starting August 1935 and ending July 1936:\n\n Sweden: \n\nPrint\n\nOnline\n"}
{"id": "2133124", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2133124", "title": "1936–37 in Swedish football", "text": "1936–37 in Swedish football\n\nThe 1936–37 season in Swedish football, starting August 1936 and ending July 1937:\n\n Sweden: \n\nPrint\n\nOnline\n"}
{"id": "2133125", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2133125", "title": "List of Anaheim Ducks head coaches", "text": "List of Anaheim Ducks head coaches\n\nThe Anaheim Ducks are an American professional ice hockey team based in Anaheim, California. They play in the Pacific Division of the Western Conference in the National Hockey League (NHL). The franchise was founded in 1993 by The Walt Disney Company as the Mighty Ducks of Anaheim, based on the film The Mighty Ducks. They were then renamed the Anaheim Ducks before the 2006–07 season, in which the Ducks won their first Stanley Cup championship. The Ducks have played their home games at the Honda Center, formerly known as the Anaheim Arena (1993) and the Arrowhead Pond of Anaheim (1993-2006), since their inaugural season. The Ducks are owned by Henry Samueli and his wife Susan, Bob Murray is their general manager, and Ryan Getzlaf is the team captain.\n\nThere have been nine head coaches for the franchise. The Mighty Ducks's first head coach was Ron Wilson, who coached for four seasons. Randy Carlyle is the franchise's all-time leader for the most regular-season games coached, regular-season game wins, regular-season points, playoff games coached and playoff-game wins. Carlyle is the only Ducks head coach to have won the Stanley Cup. Carlyle was relieved of his coaching duties in Anaheim on November 30, 2011 and the franchise immediately hired former Washington Capitals coach Bruce Boudreau. Boudreau was released after the 2015–16 season. The franchise hired Randy Carlyle prior to the 2016-2017 season, for his second stint with the organization. After struggling to find wins in the 2018-2019 season, Carlyle was relieved on February 10, 2019. The franchise's general manager, Bob Murray, replaced Carlyle as an interim coach to finish off the 2018-2019 season. After the conclusion of the season, Dallas Eakins was officially hired on June 17, 2019. He spent time coaching the Anaheim Ducks affiliate team, the San Diego Gulls, before being brought up to coach the Ducks. He is the current head coach of the organization.\n\n\"Note: Statistics are current through the end of the 2017–18 season.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2133126", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2133126", "title": "Scripps Canyon", "text": "Scripps Canyon\n\nScripps Canyon is a narrow underwater gorge located in the Pacific Ocean off the coast of southern California, United States. The canyon is approximately long and joins to La Jolla Canyon offshore.\n\nIt is located near the Scripps Institution of Oceanography, a major oceanographic research institution, and as a result is one of the best-studied underwater canyons. Scripps Canyon is also a popular site for recreational divers, because of its vertical walls and high density of marine life.\n\n"}
{"id": "2133127", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2133127", "title": "Kurus", "text": "Kurus\n\nKurus may refer to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2133130", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2133130", "title": "Kenmore, Perth and Kinross", "text": "Kenmore, Perth and Kinross\n\nKenmore (Gaelic: \"A' Cheannmhor\") is a small village in Perthshire, in the Highlands of Scotland, located where Loch Tay drains into the River Tay.\n\nThe village dates from the 16th century. It and the neighbouring Castle were originally known as Balloch (from Gaelic \"bealach\", 'pass'). The original village was sited on the north side of river approximately two miles from its present site and was known as Inchadney. In 1540 Sir Colin Campbell of Glenorchy started the construction of Balloch castle on the opposite bank of the river and the entire village was moved to a prominent headland by the shores of Loch Tay, hence the name Kenmore, which translates from Scots Gaelic to \"big (or large) head\". The village as it is seen today is a model village laid out by 3rd Earl of Breadalbane in 1760.\n\nThe Kenmore Hotel, commissioned in 1572 by the then laird Colin Campbell, has its origins in a tavern built around 70 years earlier offering accommodation and refreshments. It is reputed to be Scotland's oldest hotel.\n\nTaymouth Castle, another Campbell creation, was built by John Campbell, 2nd Marquess of Breadalbane (d. 1862) on the site of its late medieval predecessor, Balloch Castle (built 1550 by the Campbells of Glenorchy, ancestors of the Marquesses of Breadalbane, demolished 1805). This enormous mansion, in neo-Gothic style, was completed in time for the visit of Queen Victoria in 1842. No expense was spared on the interior, which was decorated with the utmost sumptuousness. Taymouth Castle is now privately owned and has a fine golf course in its grounds. Plans to restore the Castle to its mid-19th century glory and convert it into a luxury hotel are currently ongoing.\nKenmore Bridge dates from 1774 and the village as it is today was laid out in the 18th Century by the third Earl of Breadalbane. It retains many of its original buildings and historic appearance.\n\nAround two miles northeast of the village by the side of the A827 road is a complex multi-phase stone circle known as Croft Moraig Stone Circle.\n\nTo the southwest, between Kenmore and Acharn, the waterside settlement of Croft-na-Caber has been redeveloped into a number of tourist attractions. The Scottish Crannog Centre (formerly the Crannog Reconstruction Project) is an open-air museum on the south of Loch Tay Road. It features an accurate full-size reconstruction of a , an Iron Age artificial island, of which more than 20 (most now submerged) have been found in Loch Tay. The crannog mockup is based on the real Oakbank Crannog archaeological site off the north shore of the loch. The visitor centre also displays artefacts from nearby excavations, which are funded in part by the proceeds from this attraction. The Croft-na-Caber Watersports & Activity Centre, originally planned as a £20 million sailing resort in 2009, now offers additional activities, including hydraboarding and canyoning. The original Croft-na-Caber Hotel closed in the 2000s, though the successor resort is served by other area hotels, the largest of which is the Kenmore Hotel.\nThe biggest island in the loch, known as the Isle of Loch Tay, or in Gaelic , 'Isle of Holy Women', is just north of Kenmore. It was the site of a nunnery in the 12th century and was the burial place of Queen Sibylla (d. 1122), wife of Alexander I of Scotland (1107–24). A castle was built on the island in the later Middle Ages. Much larger in area than the other crannogs, it is unclear to what extent this island is natural, or has been built up with landfill over the centuries.\n\nAs with the rest of the British Isles and Scotland, Kenmore experiences a maritime climate with cool summers and mild winters. The nearest official Metoffice weather station for which online records are available is Ardtalnaig, about 6 miles south west of the settlement. Despite its location in the interior of Scotland, the vast Loch Tay adjacent to the village provides some insulation from extreme frost – unlike many weather observing sites in this area of Scotland, no month averages a minimum below freezing point, and no temperatures below have been reported since at least 1960.\n\n"}
{"id": "2133133", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2133133", "title": "Visible light communication", "text": "Visible light communication\n\nVisible light communication (VLC) is a data communications variant which uses visible light between 400 and 800 THz (780–375 nm). VLC is a subset of optical wireless communications technologies.\n\nThe technology uses fluorescent lamps (ordinary lamps, not special communications devices) to transmit signals at 10 kbit/s, or LEDs for up to 500 Mbit/s over short distances. Systems such as RONJA can transmit at full Ethernet speed (10 Mbit/s) over distances of .\n\nSpecially designed electronic devices generally containing a photodiode receive signals from light sources, although in some cases a cell phone camera or a digital camera will be sufficient. The image sensor used in these devices is in fact an array of photodiodes (pixels) and in some applications its use may be preferred over a single photodiode. Such a sensor may provide either multi-channel (down to 1 pixel = 1 channel) or a spatial awareness of multiple light sources.\n\nVLC can be used as a communications medium for ubiquitous computing, because light-producing devices (such as indoor/outdoor lamps, TVs, traffic signs, commercial displays and car headlights/taillights) are used everywhere. \n\nThe history of visible light communications (VLC) dates back to the 1880s in Washington, D.C. when the Scottish-born scientist Alexander Graham Bell invented the photophone, which transmitted speech on modulated sunlight over several hundred meters. This pre-dates the transmission of speech by radio.\n\nMore recent work began in 2003 at Nakagawa Laboratory, in Keio University, Japan, using LEDs to transmit data by visible light. Since then there have been numerous research activities focussed on VLC.\n\nIn 2006, researchers from CICTR at Penn State proposed a combination of power line communication (PLC) and white light LED to provide broadband access for indoor applications. This research suggested that VLC could be deployed as a perfect last-mile solution in the future.\n\nIn January 2010 a team of researchers from Siemens and Fraunhofer Institute for Telecommunications, Heinrich Hertz Institute in Berlin demonstrated transmission at 500 Mbit/s with a white LED over a distance of , and 100 Mbit/s over longer distance using five LEDs.\n\nThe VLC standardization process is conducted within the working group.\n\nIn December 2010 St. Cloud, Minnesota, signed a contract with LVX Minnesota and became the first to commercially deploy this technology.\n\nIn July 2011 a presentation at TED Global. gave a live demonstration of high-definition video being transmitted from a standard LED lamp, and proposed the term Li-Fi to refer to a subset of VLC technology.\n\nRecently, VLC-based indoor positioning systems have become an attractive topic. ABI research forecasts that it could be a key solution to unlocking the $5 billion \"indoor location market\". Publications have been coming from Nakagawa Laboratory, ByteLight filed a patent on a light positioning system using LED digital pulse recognition in March 2012. COWA at Penn State and other researchers around the world.\n\nAnother recent application is in the world of toys, thanks to cost-efficient and low-complexity implementation, which only requires one microcontroller and one LED as optical front-end.\n\nVLCs can be used for providing security. They are especially useful in body sensor networks and personal area networks.\n\nRecently Organic LEDs (OLED) have been used as optical transceivers to build up VLC communication links up to 10 Mbit/s.\n\nIn October 2014, Axrtek launched a commercial bidirectional RGB LED VLC system called MOMO that transmits down and up at speeds of 300 Mbit/s and with a range of 25 feet.\n\nIn May 2015, Philips collaborated with supermarket company Carrefour to deliver VLC location-based services to shoppers' smartphones in a hypermarket in Lille, France. In June 2015, two Chinese companies, Kuang-Chi and Ping An Bank, partnered to introduce a payment card that communicates information through a unique visible light. \nIn March 2017, Philips set up the first VLC location-based services to shoppers' smartphones in Germany. The installation was presented at EuroShop in Düsseldorf (March 5 – 9 th). As first supermarket in Germany an Edeka supermarket in Düsseldorf-Bilk is using the system, which offers a 30 centimeter positioning accuracy can be achieved, which meets the special demands in food retail. Indoor positioning systems based on VLC can be used in places such as hospitals, eldercare homes, warehouses, and large, open offices to locate people and control indoor robotic vehicles.\n\nThere is wireless network that for data transmission uses visible light, and does not use intensity modulation of optical sources. The idea is to use vibration generator instead of optical sources for data transmission.\n\nColor shift keying (CSK), outlined in IEEE 802.15.7, is an intensity modulation based modulation scheme for VLC. CSK is intensity-based, as the modulated signal takes on an instantaneous color equal to the physical sum of three (red/green/blue) LED instantaneous intensities. This modulated signal jumps instantaneously, from symbol to symbol, across different visible colors; hence, CSK can be construed as a form of frequency shifting. However, this instantaneous variation in the transmitted color is not to be humanly perceptible, because of the limited temporal sensitivity in the human vision — the \"critical flicker fusion threshold\" (CFF) and the \"critical color fusion threshold\" (CCF), both of which cannot resolve temporal changes shorter than 0.01 second. The LEDs’ transmissions are, therefore, preset to time-average (over the CFF and the CCF) to a specific time-constant color. Humans can thus perceive only this preset color that seems constant over time, but cannot perceive the instantaneous color that varies rapidly in time. In other words, CSK transmission maintains a constant time-averaged luminous flux, even as its symbol sequence varies rapidly in chromaticity.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2133136", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2133136", "title": "Falkland, Fife", "text": "Falkland, Fife\n\nFalkland (), previously in the Lands of Kilgour (c1200), is a village, parish and former royal burgh in Fife, Scotland, at the foot of the Lomond Hills. According to the 2008 population estimate, it has a population of 1,180.\n\nThe earliest forms of this name include \"Falleland\" (c. 1128) and \"Falecklen\" (c. 1160), with the second element being Brythonic \"lann\" (\"enclosure\"), but the exact etymology is unclear since the first element could be \"falach\" (\"hidden\"), \"failc\" (\"wash\"), and \"falc\" (\"heavy rain\"). The later folk etymologies \"falcon land\" and \"folkland\" are not plausible.\n\nIn the Middle Ages, the name Falkland only applied to the Castle; the burgh and parish were known as Kilgour, which may mean \"church/cell of Gabrán\".\n\nThe lands of Kilgour existed at Falkland prior to the 12th century. However, this was not until the erection of Falkland Castle some time after 1160 which was the crucial factor in the birth of the village. The site of Falkland Castle now lies within the grounds of the present Falkland Palace. The donation of the royal hunting estate of Falkland by King Malcolm to Duncan, Earl of Fife in 1160, may actually have led to any previous hunting lodge being replaced by the castle.\n\nDespite being granted royal burgh status in 1458, Falkland had developed as a medieval settlement dependent on Falkland Palace and the Falkland Castle and therefore did not function in the same way as other royal burghs did.\n\nFalkland was the birthplace of the famous 17th century Covenanter Richard Cameron who was the town schoolmaster before he became a field preacher. His house still stands in the main street of the village. Another Covenanter, Robert Gillespie was arrested for preaching here before being imprisoned on the Bass Rock. The American country and western singer Johnny Cash traced part of his family ancestry to this district of Fife.\n\nA considerable proportion of the village (including the Palace) was restored by John, Marquis of Bute who inherited much of the land in the late 19th century. He employed the architects John Kinross and Robert Weir Schultz to undertake the works required.\nLegend has it that the Jacobite forces were given shelter in their wars against the English in the 17th Century by the Stewart Kings.\n\nThe Falkland Islands in the South Atlantic are named after Anthony Cary, 5th Viscount Falkland.\n\nScotland's first conservation village is best known as the location of Falkland Palace, begun in 1500 by James IV, and the best example of French-influenced Renaissance architecture in Scotland. The palace was built to accommodate the royal court when they came to Falkland to hunt in the nearby forests; Mary, Queen of Scots, was a frequent visitor. The palace houses a Roman Catholic Church which was used for the undertaking of mass.\n\nAs at Holyrood Palace in Edinburgh, a fire broke out during the occupation of the buildings by Oliver Cromwell's troops in 1654. The fire destroyed the East Range. The Court never returned to Falkland Palace after 1665 and until the 19th century the village and palace were neglected. In the late 19th century extensive rebuilding and restoration work began. Today the palace and gardens are open to the public through the National Trust for Scotland.\n\nFalkland contains a number of Listed buildings, including five at Category A:\n\n\nOther features of the village include an old horse market, also including the Falkland Cricket Club, and the Falkland Golf Club. One of the country's leading environmental festivals, The Big Tent, was held for several years up to 2012 in the grounds of Falkland Estate in July. Organised by the Falkland Centre for Stewardship, the 2012 festival was headlined by the Proclaimers and the 2010 event by Rosanne Cash. Since 2016 the main event of the year has been the Craft Symposium. The 2018 Symposium, held in August, celebrates traditional crafts and craftsmanship through talks, discussions, workshops, demonstrations, networking and site tours.\n\nThe Falkland Library and Falkland Community Hall are run on behalf of the community by Falkland Community Development Trust, an organisation established to maintain, develop and/or operate a centre or centres providing facilities for a wide range of community activities and accommodation for community groups, and for public sector agencies which provide services of benefit to the community. All residents of Falkland can become members of the trust.\n\nThe Falkland Society holds regular meetings with speakers, and has published several books about the village.\n\nFalkland is home to “real tennis” the first of the games played at the Palace by the Stewart Kings in the 15th Century.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2133137", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2133137", "title": "Abbie Carmichael", "text": "Abbie Carmichael\n\nAbigail \"Abbie\" Carmichael is a fictional character on the TV drama \"Law & Order\" created by René Balcer and portrayed by model/actress Angie Harmon. The character was regularly featured from 1998 to 2001. She appeared in 78 episodes (72 episodes in \"Law & Order\", and 6 episodes in \"Law & Order: Special Victims Unit\").\n\nAbbie Carmichael is introduced in the episode \"Cherished\", having transferred from the Narcotics Bureau to replace Jamie Ross (Carey Lowell) as Jack McCoy's (Sam Waterston) assistant in the New York County DA's office. The series reveals that she is from Dallas and attended the University of Texas, where she was on the track team.\n\nCarmichael is characterized as a staunch political conservative: She is anti-abortion, opposes gun control, favors the death penalty, and has no faith in criminal rehabilitation programs. These political beliefs often put her in conflict with McCoy and DAs Adam Schiff (Steven Hill) and Nora Lewin (Dianne Wiest), all of whom are of a more liberal stripe.\n\nCertain cases affect her worldview, however. During one case (Season 9, Episode 8 \"Punk\"), she prosecutes an incarcerated woman who had murdered a corrections officer she claims had forced her into a sexual relationship. Carmichael, who had prosecuted the woman before on a drug charge, has no sympathy for her and seems hell-bent on putting her in prison for life—until she cross-examines the woman, who reveals that she blames herself for being raped. This strikes a chord in Carmichael, who suddenly arranges a lenient plea bargain for the woman. Carmichael later reveals to McCoy that she had been raped as a freshman in college by a third-year law student she had been dating, and had for years blamed herself. In another case, her friend and fellow ADA, Toni Ricci, is murdered by the Russian mobsters she was prosecuting. It is the only time that she lets anyone in the DA's office see her cry.\n\nCarmichael makes her final appearance in the episode \"Deep Vote\", as she accepts an offer to join the U.S. Attorney's office in New York. She is replaced by Serena Southerlyn (Elisabeth Röhm) in season 12.\n\nCarmichael also appeared in six episodes of the first season of the spinoff series \"\": \"Payback\", \"A Single Life\", \"Sophomore Jinx\", \"Closure\", \"Bad Blood\" and \"Entitled\".\n\nDespite describing Abbie Carmichael as a \"great character\", Harmon nonetheless was frustrated with the fact that her shooting schedule on the show caused her to miss out on roles in the movies \"Charlie's Angels\" and \"Spy Kids\". Additionally, she felt that the character \"didn't grow\". Harmon asked producer Dick Wolf to kill off the Carmichael character in a dramatic fashion (a la Claire Kincaid), but he refused.\n\nHarmon has been credited in a total of 78 episodes of the \"Law & Order\" franchise – 72 of \"Law & Order\" and 6 episodes of \"Law & Order: Special Victims Unit\".\n"}
{"id": "2133139", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2133139", "title": "Howl (album)", "text": "Howl (album)\n\nHowl is the third studio album by American rock band Black Rebel Motorcycle Club. It was released on August 22, 2005 in the UK, August 23 in the US, and September 21 in Japan. The record was released in the UK and Europe by The Echo Label and by RCA in the US, Australia, Japan, and the rest of the world.\n\nMany critics noted that \"Howl\" took a different direction from earlier BRMC releases. Critics were generally polarised with the album. While most agreed that their 2001 debut was the better of the first two records, and the follow-up had been rushed and lacklustre, opinion of the third offering was not so unified. Many critics saw the album as an innovative departure from the band's homeground, and the record that affirmed them as the \"Kings of Cool\" once again, while others professed the record dull, and a last-minute attempt at restoring a flagging career by an album of acoustic tracks that should have ended up as b-sides.\n\nThe title of the record is a direct reference to Allen Ginsberg's poem \"Howl\".\n\nIn an August 2018 issue of \"NME\" dedicated to great \"lost\" or \"cult\" albums, \"Howl\" was selected by Guy Garvey of the band Elbow as his favorite \"lost\" album.\n\nBlack Rebel Motorcycle Club had claimed that they signed to The Echo Label in order to release more singles from their albums, having only been allowed to release two from their previous album, \"Take Them On, On Your Own\". Despite this, their first single from \"Howl\", album opener \"Shuffle Your Feet\", was a download-only single, therefore (at the time) not eligible to chart. Following this, they released \"Ain't No Easy Way\", the most recognizable and popular song from the record. Noticeably after this, the proposed third single from the album, \"Weight of the World\", never materialized, with only a limited number of copies surfacing, again non-chart eligible.\n\nAn additional six-song EP was released in 2006 featuring unreleased tracks from the \"Howl\" sessions:\n\n"}
{"id": "2133150", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2133150", "title": "Joe Barresi", "text": "Joe Barresi\n\nJoe Barresi (nicknamed \"Evil\") is an American record engineer and producer who has worked with bands such as Kyuss, The Melvins, Tool, Chevelle, Queens of the Stone Age, Coheed and Cambria, Tomahawk, L7, The Jesus Lizard, Parkway Drive, New Model Army, Bad Religion, Stam1na, Avenged Sevenfold and Slipknot.\n\nJoe Barresi started playing guitar when he was 7, and played in local bands in and around his home in New York City and in Florida. He studied classical guitar and music theory at the University of South Florida, and transferred to the University of Miami where he also studied piano and music engineering. While there he logged a prodigious number of hours recording and developing local bands in Miami.\n\nAfter completing college, Barresi moved to Los Angeles and began working his way up the ladder by working at numerous local studios—a move that helped him gain an understanding of the different consoles, rooms and clientele at the various studios. His first big break came when he engineered a demo for producer GGGarth Richardson. He went on to work with a number of well-respected producers including David Kahne, Michael Beinhorn, Rob Cavallo and Sylvia Massy.\n\nBarresi has mixed tracks for Monster Magnet, Fair to Midland, Hole, Veruca Salt, Weezer, Rancid, Bauhaus, Anthrax, Skunk Anansie, and Alpha Galates.\n\nEventually Barresi gained enough experience and insight that he began producing records. He has produced or co-produced tracks for Clutch, Buckcherry, Fu Manchu, Loudmouth, The Melvins, L7 and others. He also produced the debut album by Queens of the Stone Age which, at the time, did not have a record deal. That album was eventually released by indie label Loose Groove. The self-titled album garnered attention from press (\"Rolling Stone\" named Queens of the Stone Age one of the ten most important hard and heavy bands of the year) and alternative radio (including KROQ) -- all of which landed the band a deal with Interscope Records. Perhaps Barresi's most high-profile work came with the band Tool, for whom he engineered and mixed the album \"10,000 Days\", a job he received after a recommendation from Buzz Osborne of \"The Melvins\" In 2011 he worked with the band Stam1na in Finland. Barresi engineered and mixed Tool's 2019 album \"Fear Inoculum\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2133151", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2133151", "title": "J. Vernon McGee", "text": "J. Vernon McGee\n\nJohn Vernon McGee (June 17, 1904 – December 1, 1988) was an American ordained Presbyterian minister, pastor, Bible teacher, theologian, and radio minister.\n\nMcGee was born in Hillsboro, Texas, to itinerant parents, John McGee and Carrie McGee (née Lingner). His father held many jobs, his last one being an engineer at a cotton mill in Oklahoma, where he died in 1918 when Vernon was 14 years old, as Vernon sometimes mentioned in his sermons. After his father's death, Vernon's family relocated to Tennessee. Before entering the ministry, Vernon worked as a bank teller.\n\nAfter attending Southwest University, he graduated magna cum laude with a Bachelor of Divinity degree from Columbia Theological Seminary and Master of Theology and Doctor of Theology degrees from Dallas Theological Seminary. The bank manager for whom McGee had earlier worked paid for his education through seminary. McGee's ordination into the ministry occurred on June 18, 1933, at the Second Presbyterian Church in Nashville, Tennessee. \n\nMcGee's first church was located on a red clay hill in Midway, Georgia. He served Presbyterian churches in Decatur, Georgia; Nashville, Tennessee; and Cleburne, Texas, where he met and later married Ruth Inez Jordan. The couple moved to Pasadena, California, where he accepted the pastorate at the Lincoln Avenue Presbyterian Church in 1941. There, McGee started the \"Open Bible Hour\" radio program, which aired once per week. In 1949, the program was expanded to a half-hour daily schedule and renamed the \"High Noon Bible Class.\" \n\nMcGee became the pastor of the Church of the Open Door in downtown Los Angeles in 1949, succeeding Louis T. Talbot (1889 - 1976). That same year, McGee gave one of the daily invocations at Billy Graham's two-month-longChrist for Greater Los Angeles Campaign. In 1952, McGee was asked by evangelist and university president John Brown, owner of KGER radio station (now KLTX) in Long Beach, California, to take over a radio program (started in 1950 by fellow young-Earth creationist Harry Rimmer, whom McGee admired) to which listeners could send in questions that were answered on the air. By 1955, McGee had a well-publicized break with the Presbyterian Church, in which he claimed the church's \"liberal leadership [had] taken over the machinery of the presbytery with a boldness and ruthlessness that is appalling.\" This Fundamentalist–Modernist controversy within the Presbyterian church had been growing since the 1920s. It was during this time that a large number of nondenominational evangelical Protestant churches, such as the Moody Church in Chicago, had begun to appear across the U.S. After retiring from the pastorate at the Church of the Open Door in 1970, McGee devoted his remaining years to the Thru the Bible Radio Network. He also served as chairman of the Bible department at the Bible Institute of Los Angeles and as a visiting lecturer at Dallas Theological Seminary.\n\nThrough an ancestor from Scotland, Thomas McGehee (1645-1717), McGee was the sixth cousin of John R. Rice, a fellow fundamentalist and baptist evangelist and pastor.\n\nIn 1967, he began broadcasting the \"Thru the Bible Radio Network\" program. In a systematic study of each book of the Bible, McGee took his listeners from Genesis to Revelation in a two-and-a-half-year \"Bible bus tour,\" as he called it. He had earlier preached a \"Through the Bible in a Year\" series of sermons, each devoted to one chapter of the Bible, at the Church of the Open Door. After retiring from the pastorate in January, 1970, and realizing that two and a half years was not enough time to teach the whole Bible, McGee completed another study of the entire Bible in a five-year period. At the time of McGee's death, the \"Thru the Bible\" program aired in 34 languages, but has since been translated into over 100 languages. It is broadcast on Trans World Radio throughout the world every weekday.\n\nAs a Christian fundamentalist, McGee advocated young-Earth creationism in his \"Thru the Bible\" broadcasts, with a literal interpretation of the Bible in which, for example, he considered the six days of creation mentioned in the Book of Genesis to be referring to actual twenty-four-hour-long periods of time. Recurring themes in the TTB broadcasts were the Protestant doctrines of Sola fide (salvation through faith alone) and [absolute] assurance of salvation, or eternal security, which proclaims that once a follower sincerely accepts Christ as personal savior, there is nothing they can do, no sin they can commit, that will forfeit their salvation, a belief held by the majority of Evangelicals and Fundamentalists. McGee also frequently referenced select Bible passages in his sermons, such as (\"Do not be deceived: God is not mocked, for whatever one sows, that will he also reap\"), and he often spoke of the days of societal apostasy in Christianity and secularism that he believed he was witnessing during his lifetime, warning that spiritual apostasy was always the first of the three stages leading to the fall of nations, commonly observed throughout the Bible, the second and third being, respectively, immorality and political anarchy. Conservative religious culture had begun to fall out of favor in America after World War II and did not regain wide-scale popularity in the country until the rise of Christian right movements such as the Moral Majority in the 1980s. Frequently in TTB broadcasts, McGee would tell anecdotes, many from personal recollection, about prominent evangelical Christian ministers from the past, such as G. Campbell Morgan, Lewis Sperry Chafer, Mel Trotter, and Dwight L. Moody and some of his successors at the Chicago Moody Church, such as R. A. Torrey and Harry A. Ironside. The continued success of the long-running TTB program has been attributed to McGee's oratorical abilities, folksy manner, and distinctive accent, as well as his insistence on maintaining the original mission, which was to spread the Scriptures with consistency of message.\n\nHaving received his advanced degrees from the Dispensationalist Dallas Theological Seminary, McGee was a Christian fundamentalist. Many Bible colleges were modeled after the Moody Bible Institute in Chicago. Dwight L. Moody, whom McGee often spoke of in his sermons, was influential in preaching the imminence of the Kingdom of God, which is important to Dispensationalism. In his preaching, McGee readily voiced his personal convictions regarding many controversial subjects. He held the belief that Premillennialism is the proper interpretation of Revelation 20:1–3, 7–8, regarding the end times prior to the final judgment. McGee expressed his disbelief in any validity to the view of Amillennialism, which was the dominant view of the Protestant Reformers and is still held by the Eastern Orthodox and Roman Catholic Churches. McGee opposed the viewpoints of Fatalism and Predestination in Calvinism. McGee, like the majority of Protestants, vehemently rejected the Roman Catholic Church's doctrine that Saint Peter went to and founded the Church in Rome but, rather, McGee asserted in many sermons this had been done by Paul (Saul). Because Protestants reject the claim by the Roman Catholic Church that it is the original Christian faith, founded by Jesus Christ, and its bishops are the successors of Christ's apostles (the pope being the successor to Saint Peter), McGee often argued for the distinction to be made between the Catholic Church and the Early Church, particularly in regards to the latter's role in developing the New Testament of the Bible . McGee was a frequent and popular summer conference speaker at the Cannon Beach Christian Conference Center in Cannon Beach, Oregon.\n\nMcGee continued many speaking engagements after he retired, including throughout a bout of cancer from which he fully recovered. However, a heart problem surgically corrected in 1965 resurfaced, and he died in his chair in 1988. Since his death, the five-year program of Thru the Bible has continued to air on over 800 radio stations in North America, is heard in more than 100 languages, and is broadcast worldwide via radio, shortwave, and the Internet.\n\nAn obituary distributed by the Associated Press reported that McGee died of heart failure at a nursing home in Templeton, California, at age 84. His wife, Ruth, died in 1997 after suffering from dementia for nearly a decade.\n\nMcGee was posthumously inducted into the National Religious Broadcasters Hall of Fame in 1989.\n\n\n Notes\n\n"}
{"id": "2133173", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2133173", "title": "The Boy in the Plastic Bubble", "text": "The Boy in the Plastic Bubble\n\nThe Boy in the Plastic Bubble is a 1976 American made-for-television drama film inspired by the lives of David Vetter and Ted DeVita, who lacked effective immune systems. It stars John Travolta, Glynnis O'Connor, Diana Hyland, Robert Reed, Ralph Bellamy & P.J. Soles. It was written by Douglas Day Stewart, executive produced by Aaron Spelling and Leonard Goldberg (who, at the time, produced \"Starsky and Hutch\" and \"Charlie's Angels\"), and directed by Randal Kleiser, who would work with Travolta again in \"Grease\" shortly after. The original music score was composed by Mark Snow. The theme song \"What Would They Say\" was written and sung by Paul Williams. William Howard Taft High School in Woodland Hills was used for filming.\n\nThe movie first aired November 12, 1976, on the ABC television network.\n\nJohn and Mickey Lubitch conceive a child. After multiple previous miscarriages and the death of their first son (who was born without a functioning immune system), Mickey fears the likelihood that something gravely wrong could happen to their child. John assures her that the odds of their next child being born with the same condition are low.\n\nThe pregnancy results in the birth of a live baby boy, whom they name Tod. Tod's immune system also does not function properly, meaning that contact with unfiltered air may kill him. John and Mickey are told he may have to live out his entire life in incubator-like conditions. After a strenuous four years of Tod living in the hospital, Mickey convinces John to find a way to bring Tod home. He lives with his parents in Houston, Texas. He is restricted to staying in his room all his life where he eats, learns, reads, and exercises, while being protected from the outside world by various coverings.\n\nAs Tod grows, he wishes to see more of the outside world and meet regular people his age. He is enrolled at the local school after being equipped with suitable protective clothing, similar in style to a space suit. He falls in love with his next door neighbor, Gina Biggs, and he must decide between following his heart and facing near-certain death, or remaining in his protective bubble forever. In the end, after having a discussion with his doctor who tells him he has built up some immunities which may possibly be enough to survive the real world, he steps outside his house, unprotected, and he and Gina ride off on her horse.\n\n\nThe \"Bubble Boy\" who inspired this film, David Vetter, questioned the film's depiction of how sterile Tod's use of the spacesuit was. Vetter scoffed at the idea that Travolta's character could simply wear the space suit back into the isolator without contaminating the bubble.\n\nThe film was nominated for four Emmy Awards, winning one posthumously for Hyland.\n\nTravolta's positive experiences on the film led him to request Kleiser as director when he was cast as the lead in the 1978 film \"Grease\"; Kelly Ward also appeared in that film.\n\nDays after Bill Clinton was inaugurated as U.S. President, William Safire reported on the phrase \"in the bubble\" as used in reference to living in the White House. Safire traced that usage in U.S. presidential politics to a passage in the 1990 political memoir \"What I Saw at the Revolution\" by Peggy Noonan, where she used it to characterize Ronald Reagan's \"wistfulness about connection\"; Richard Ben Cramer used the phrase two years later in \"What It Takes: The Way to the White House\" with reference to George H. W. Bush and how he had been \"cosseted and cocooned in comfort by 400 people devoted to his security\" and \"never s[aw] one person who was not a friend or someone whose sole purpose it was to serve or protect him.\" Noonan's use was a reference to \"The Boy in the Plastic Bubble\".\n\nThe film inspired the first song on the 1986 Paul Simon album \"Graceland\". In 1992, the film's premise was satirized in the seventh episode of the fourth season of \"Seinfeld\". It was also the subject of the 2001 comedy film \"Bubble Boy\" and the 2007 musical \"In the Bubble\" produced by American Music Theatre Project and featuring a book by Rinne Groff, music by Michael Friedman and Joe Popp and lyrics by Friedman, Groff and Popp.\n\nThe film was mentioned several times on the series \"That '70s Show\", in the episodes of \"NCIS\" \"SWAK\" and \"Thirst\", on the \"Family Guy\" episode \"The Father, The Son and The Holy Fonz\" and in the film \"Superstar\". In \"Thirst\" \"Very Special Agent\" Tony DiNozzo mentions it to partner Tim McGee, who asks if it was \"pre or post Barbarino\" to which Tony says that he thinks it was post, suggesting that Tim watch it on Netflix. It was actually during \"Welcome Back, Kotter\", which began in 1975. In 2010 it was voice-overed on the comedic film commentary Rifftrax.\n\nThe film had a personal impact on Travolta and Hyland, who began a six-month romantic relationship until her death, after the film ended principal photography.\n\nOn \"Dance Moms\" Series 6 Abby Lee Miller said the girls are doing a dance which is inspired by the movie.\n\n"}
{"id": "2133185", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2133185", "title": "Terr", "text": "Terr\n\nTerr. or TERR may refer to:\nPeople with the surname Terr include:\n"}
{"id": "2133195", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2133195", "title": "Terrer", "text": "Terrer\n\nTerrer is a municipality located in the province of Zaragoza, Aragon, Spain. \n\nAccording to the 2007 census (INE), the municipality has a population of 541 inhabitants.\n\nIt appears in the Cantar de Mio Cid.\n"}
{"id": "2133209", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2133209", "title": "Kikuko, Princess Takamatsu", "text": "Kikuko, Princess Takamatsu\n\n, born , known informally as Princess Kikuko, was a member of the Japanese Imperial Family. The Princess was the widow of Prince Takamatsu, the third son of Emperor Taishō and Empress Teimei. She was, therefore, a sister-in-law of Emperor Shōwa and an aunt of the previous emperor, Akihito. She was mainly known for philanthropic activities, particular her patronage of cancer research organizations. At the time of her death, Princess Takamatsu was the oldest member of the Imperial Family.\n\nBorn in Tokyo on 26 December 1911, she was the second daughter of Yoshihisa Tokugawa (2 September 1884 – 22 January 1922), a peer, and his wife Princess Mieko of Arisugawa (14 February 1891 – 25 April 1933). Her paternal grandfather was Tokugawa Yoshinobu, Japan's last \"shōgun\". Her maternal grandfather, Prince Takehito Arisugawa, was the seventh head of the Arisugawa-no-miya, one of the four \"shinnōke\" or collateral branches of the Imperial Family during the Edo period entitled to provide a successor to the throne in default of a direct heir. Lady Kikuko Tokugawa received her primary and secondary education at the then-girls' department of the Gakushuin. At age eighteen, she became engaged to Prince Takamatsu, who was then third-in-line to the Chrysanthemum throne. By virtue of her descent from the Arisugawa-no-miya, Lady Kikuko and Prince Takamatsu were related; both were direct descendants of Emperor Reigen and were sixth cousins twice removed (Prince Takamatsu was a seven-times great-grandchild of the Reigen Emperor, while Lady Kikuko was a five-times great-grandchild of Reigen).\n\nOn 4 February 1930, she married Prince Takamatsu at the Tokyo Imperial Palace. The couple had no children. Shortly after the wedding, Prince and Princess Takamatsu embarked upon a world tour, partly to return the courtesies shown to them by King George V of the United Kingdom in sending a mission to Tokyo to present Emperor Shōwa with the Order of the Garter. During their journey they travelled across the United States so as to strengthen the goodwill and understanding between their nations. The 1930 photo illustration to the right comes from the illustrated biography on Prince Iyesato Tokugawa titled The Art of Peace. The photo presents Princess and Prince Takamatsu during their reception by U.S. President Herbert Hoover.\n\nThe Prince and Princess returned to Japan in June 1931 and took up residence in Takanawa in Minato, Tokyo.\n\nFollowing her mother's death from bowel cancer in 1933, Princess Takamatsu became a champion of cancer research. Using money donated by the public, she established the Princess Takamatsu Cancer Research Fund in 1968, organizing symposia and awarding scientists for groundbreaking work. She also served as president of an organization extending relief to leprosy patients. The Princess also served as the honorary president of the \"Saiseikai\" Imperial Gift Foundation Inc., Tofu Kyokai Foundation, Shadan Houjin Tokyo Jikeikai, Nichifutsu Kyokai, and Nichifutsu Kaikan, and as an honorary vice-president of the Japanese Red Cross Society.\n\nIn 1991, Princess Takamatsu and an aide discovered a twenty one volume diary, written in Prince Takamatsu's own hand between 1922 and 1947. Despite opposition from the Imperial Household Agency, she gave the diary to the magazine \"Chūōkōron\" which published excerpts in 1995. The diary revealed that Prince Takamatsu opposed the Kwantung Army's incursions in Manchuria in September 1931, the expansion of the July 1937 Marco Polo Bridge Incident into a full-scale war against China and had warned his brother Hirohito in November 1941 that the Navy could not fight more than two years against the United States.\n\nAfter the death of her sister-in-law, Empress Kōjun, in 2000, Princess Takamatsu became the oldest member of the Imperial Family. In 2001, after Crown Prince Naruhito and Crown Princess Masako had a daughter, Princess Takamatsu, at age 90, became the first member of the Imperial Family to publicly call for changes to the 1947 Imperial Household Law, which limits the succession to the Chrysanthemum throne to legitimate males in the male line of descent. In an article she wrote for the January/February 2002 issue of a women's magazine, she argued that having a female \"tennō\" was \"not unnatural\" since women had assumed the throne in the past, most recently in the early nineteenth century.\n\nPrincess Takamatsu died of sepsis at St. Luke's Medical Center in Tokyo on 18 December 2004. She had been in and out of the hospital with various ailments during the last decade of her life. Her funeral was held on 27 December at Toshimagaoka cemetery in Tokyo's Bunkyō Ward. She was the last surviving member of the imperial family who was born during the Meiji period.\n\nKikuko was styled as \"Her Imperial Highness The Princess Takamatsu\". Prior to her marriage, as a daughter of a peer she was styled as \"Lady Kikuko Tokugawa\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2133221", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2133221", "title": "Sadako", "text": "Sadako\n\nSadako is a Japanese name, commonly used for women. The same name can be written with a variety of kanji, and the meanings of the name differ accordingly:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2133230", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2133230", "title": "Bill France Sr.", "text": "Bill France Sr.\n\nWilliam Henry Getty France (September 26, 1909 – June 7, 1992), also known as Bill France Sr. or Big Bill, was an American racing driver. He is best known for founding and managing NASCAR, a sanctioning body of US-based stock car racing.\n\nFrance was born in Washington, D. C., the son of Emma Graham, an immigrant from Ireland, and William Henry France. France skipped school as a teenager to make laps in the family Model T Ford at the high-banked board track near Laurel, Maryland. He ran laps until there was just enough time to beat his father home. France worked at several jobs before owning and operating his own service station. He built his customer base by waking before dawn and crank-starting customers' cars in the middle of winter.\n\nFrance was familiar with Daytona Beach's land speed record history when he moved his family from Washington D.C. to Daytona in the spring of 1935 to escape the Great Depression. He had less than $100 in his pocket when they left D.C. He began painting houses, then worked at a local car dealership. He set up a car repair shop in Daytona at 316 Main Street Station, still in existence today as an event and entertainment venue. Malcolm Campbell and other land speed record competitors decided to stop competing for land speed records at Daytona in favor of the Bonneville Salt Flats later in 1935 because the track was getting too rutted. Daytona had lost its claim to fame. City officials were determined to keep speed related events, events which had been a mid-winter source of revenue for area hotels and restaurants.\n\nOn March 8, 1936, the first stock car race was held on the Daytona Beach Road Course, promoted by local racer Sig Haugdahl. The race was 78 laps long () for street-legal family sedans sanctioned by the American Automobile Association (AAA) for cars built in 1935 and 1936. The city posted a $5000 purse with $1700 for the winner. The race was marred by controversial scoring and huge financial losses to the city. Ticket-takers arrived to find thousands of fans already at the beach track. The sandy turns at the ends of the track became virtually impassable with stuck and stalled cars. Second and third-place finishers protested the results. France finished fifth. The city lost $22,000.\n\nHaugdahl talked with France, and together they got the Daytona Beach Elks Club to host another event on Labor Day weekend in September 1937. The event was more successful, but still lost money despite its $100 purse. Haugdahl didn't promote any more events. France took over the job of running the course in 1938. There were two events in 1938. Danny Murphy beat France in the July event. France beat Lloyd Moody and Pig Ridings to win the Labor Day weekend event. Three races each were held in 1939 and 1940. France finished fourth in March, first in July, and sixth in September, 1940. Four events were held in 1941.\n\nFrance was busy planning the 1942 event, until the Japanese bombed Pearl Harbor. France spent World War II working at the Daytona Boat Works while his wife Anne ran the filling station. Most racing stopped until after the war. Bill met Jim Johnstone Sr. in 1944, when Jim was stationed at the Navy Base in Daytona Beach, where Embry-Riddle Aeronautical University is currently located. Johnstone had been an auto mechanic in New Jersey, where his father built Indy car engines. He met France at Bill's filling station and became his race car mechanic. They traveled with their wives and children throughout Florida on the weekends, racing at many small tracks.\n\nOn April 6, 1946, Jim and Bill were testing Bill's car on the streets of Cocoa, Florida, when they were stopped for driving 74 mph (119 km/h) in the city limits. Jim was driving and had to pay a $25 fine. When the war ended, Jim moved his family back to New Jersey to start an auto parts business but remained close friends with Bill for the rest of his life. After the war, France decided to concentrate on promoting instead of driving. In sixteen events at Daytona Beach, France had two victories and six Top-5 finishes. France promoted events at Seminole Speedway immediately after the war. He built the Occoneechee Speedway in 1947.\n\nFrance knew that promoters needed to organize their efforts. Drivers were frequently victimized by unscrupulous promoters who would leave events with all the money before drivers were paid. On December 14, 1947, France began talks with drivers, mechanics and car owners at the Ebony Bar at the Streamline Hotel at Daytona Beach, Florida, that ended with the formation of NASCAR on February 21, 1948. They discussed uniform rules, insurance coverage and guaranteed purses.\n\nBy 1953, France knew it was time for a permanent track to hold the large crowds that were gathering for races at Daytona and elsewhere. Hotels were being constructed along the beachfront. On April 4, 1953, he proposed a new superspeedway called Daytona International Speedway. France began building a new superspeedway in 1956 to host what would become the new premiere event of the series – the Daytona 500. The event debuted in 1959, and has been the premiere event since.\n\nHe later built the Talladega Superspeedway which opened in 1969.\n\nHe served as chairman and CEO of NASCAR. R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company became the title sponsor in 1971, a move that changed the name of the series from \"Grand National\" to \"Winston Cup\". Reynolds convinced France to drop all dirt tracks and races under from the NASCAR schedule in 1972, a move that defined the \"modern era\" of the sport. Big Bill then turned the reins of NASCAR over to his son Bill France Jr. France kept an office at the headquarters until the late 1980s.\n\nHe built the International Motorsports Hall of Fame, which inducted France in its first class on July 25, 1990.\n\nFrance also served as campaign manager for George C. Wallace during the latter's 1972 effort to achieve the Democratic nomination for President of the United States and permitted Wallace to campaign during the Daytona 500 race held in that year.\n\nFrance died June 7, 1992, at his home in Ormond Beach, Florida, after suffering from Alzheimer's disease, aged 82.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2133236", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2133236", "title": "The Peel Session (Syd Barrett album)", "text": "The Peel Session (Syd Barrett album)\n\nThe Peel Session is a collection of recordings by Syd Barrett released on 25 January 1987. This EP contains the five songs he performed for the John Peel \"Top Gear\" show, recorded on 24 February 1970 and broadcast shortly after.\n\nAll songs written by Syd Barrett (with the possible exception of \"Two of a Kind\").\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2133244", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2133244", "title": "Bill France", "text": "Bill France\n\nBill or William France may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2133252", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2133252", "title": "Aimee Garcia", "text": "Aimee Garcia\n\nAimee Garcia López de Ordoñez (born November 28, 1978) is an American actress. She is known for her television roles as Veronica Palmero on the ABC sitcom \"George Lopez\", Yvonne Sanchez on the CBS period drama \"Vegas\", Jamie Batista on the Showtime drama \"Dexter\" and Ella Lopez on the Fox turned Netflix drama \"Lucifer\".\n\nAimee Garcia was born in Chicago, Illinois. Her mother, Eloisa, is from Pachuca, Hidalgo, Mexico, and graduated from Northwestern University's dental school; her father, Hector, is from San Juan, Puerto Rico, and was in the U.S. Armed Forces. Garcia started acting in commercials as a child, and participated in theater at seven years old. She grew up in Oak Park, Illinois, where she attended Fenwick High School. While in school, she took acting classes at Piven Theatre Workshop. She appeared in local plays and musicals during her time at Northwestern University, where she triple majored in economics, journalism, and French. After graduating, she quit acting for a year and did finance work for a mutual fund analyst in Brooklyn, New York. Unsatisfied with the job, she moved to Los Angeles, California, around 2002 to pursue acting as her career.\n\nShe portrayed Maria on The WB's \"Greetings from Tucson\", and appeared in the unaired pilot episode of \"Global Frequency\". She had a role in the Disney Channel original movie \"Cadet Kelly\" (2002), and co-starred, as Lydia, alongside Anthony Anderson in The WB sitcom \"All About the Andersons\". In 2006, she began appearing on the series \"George Lopez\", playing Lopez's niece.\n\nGarcia starred alongside Jessica Simpson in the comedy-drama \"Major Movie Star\" (2008). She also played a supporting role in the movie \"D-War\" (2007) and narrated the Adam Sandler film \"Spanglish\" (2004).\n\nFrom 2009 to 2010, she was in the cast of the Peter Berg NBC medical drama \"Trauma\", as EMT helicopter pilot Marisa Benez.\n\nGarcia spent three years on Showtime's \"Dexter\" as Jamie Batista, for which she was nominated for a SAG Award for Best Ensemble in Dramatic Television Series.\n\nShe played Dr. Jae Kim in MGM's reboot film, \"RoboCop\" (2014).\n\nIn 2016, Garcia was added to the main cast for the second season of the Fox television series \"Lucifer\", playing LAPD forensic scientist Ella Lopez. In 2019, Garcia starred in the independent film \"El Chicano\", receiving praise from \"The Hollywood Reporter\" for her performance's \"vivid impression\".\n\nGarcia co-wrote the comic book series \"GLOW vs. The Babyface\" with former professional wrestler AJ Mendez, based on the television series \"GLOW\"; the first of four issues was published by IDW Publishing in November 2019.\n\nGarcia resides in Los Angeles, California.\n"}
{"id": "2133253", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2133253", "title": "Space–time trellis code", "text": "Space–time trellis code\n\nSpace–time trellis codes (STTCs) are a type of space–time code used in multiple-antenna wireless communications. This scheme transmits multiple, redundant copies of a generalised TCM signal distributed over time and a number of antennas ('space'). These multiple, 'diverse' copies of the data are used by the receiver to attempt to reconstruct the actual transmitted data. For an STC to be used, there must necessarily be multiple \"transmit\" antennas, but only a single \"receive\" antennas is required; nevertheless multiple receive antennas are often used since the performance of the system is improved by the resulting spatial diversity.\n\nIn contrast to space–time block codes (STBCs), they are able to provide both coding gain and diversity gain and have a better bit-error rate performance. In essence they marry single channel continuous time coding with the signaling protocol being used, and extend that with a multi-antenna framework. However, that also means they are more complex than STBCs to encode and decode; they rely on a Viterbi decoder at the receiver where STBCs need only linear processing. Also, whereas in a single transmitter, single receiver framework the Viterbi algorithm (or one of the sequential decoding algorithms) only has to proceed over a trellis in a single time dimension, in here the optimal decoding also has to take into consideration the number of antennas, leading to an extraneous polynomial complexity term.\n\nSTTCs were discovered by Vahid Tarokh et al. in 1998.\n"}
{"id": "2133254", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2133254", "title": "Kikuko", "text": "Kikuko\n\nKikuko (written: 喜久子, 伎共子 or 記久子) is a feminine Japanese given name. Notable people with the name include:\n\n"}
{"id": "2133256", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2133256", "title": "Masin", "text": "Masin\n\nMasin may refer to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2133260", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2133260", "title": "Birds Fly (Whisper to a Scream)", "text": "Birds Fly (Whisper to a Scream)\n\n\"Birds Fly (Whisper to a Scream)\", given the reversed title \"Whisper to a Scream (Birds Fly)\" in some markets, is a song by the British band The Icicle Works. It was released in 1983 as the first single from the band's 1984 debut eponymous album \"The Icicle Works\". The song was written by Ian McNabb, the band's lead singer, and produced by Hugh Jones.\n\nThe recording initially was released as a single in Britain in June 1983 as \"Birds Fly (Whisper to a Scream)\" on the Situation Two label. This initial release hit #2 on the UK independent charts, and scraped the lower reaches of the overall UK national charts at #89.\n\nAfter The Icicle Works' next UK single \"Love Is a Wonderful Colour\" hit #15 on the UK charts in late 1983 and early 1984, Beggars Banquet Records re-released \"Birds Fly (Whisper to a Scream)\" in March 1984 with a new cover and B-side. This re-release climbed to #52 in the UK.\n\nThe group's U.S. label Arista Records refused to release the record unless some changes were made. The track was remixed slightly in order to remove a brief spoken-word overdub on the opening bars of music. (The woman performing this intro was identified only as \"Mariella\" on the original Situation Two single sleeve.) Also the song title was reversed, becoming \"Whisper to a Scream (Birds Fly)\". Finally, Arista shortened the band's name to Icicle Works. With changes, the song reached #37 on the U.S. \"Billboard\" Hot 100 chart and #34 on \"Cashbox\"'s singles chart in the summer of 1984. The song also reached #18 on the \"Billboard\" Mainstream Rock chart and #15 on Radio & Records Album Oriented Rock chart.\n\n7\" vinyl\n\n12\" vinyl\n\n7\" vinyl [UK]\n7\" vinyl [Canada]\n12\" vinyl (BEG 108T)\n12\" vinyl (BEG 108TD)\n12\" vinyl (BEG 108TR)\n\nThe Canadian version of the single (credited to \"The\" Icicle Works) used the original UK mix with the spoken word intro, under the revised US title \"Whisper to a Scream (Birds Fly)\". This was the most successful commercial release of the single, reaching #19 on the Canadian charts in the summer of 1984.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2133263", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2133263", "title": "Aurin", "text": "Aurin\n\nAurin (C.I. 43800), sometimes named rosolic acid or corallin is an organic compound, forming yellowish or deep-red crystals with greenish metallic luster. It is practically insoluble in water, freely soluble in alcohol. It is soluble in strong acids to form yellow solution, or in aqueous alkalis to form carmine red solutions. Due to this behaviour it can be used as pH indicator with pH transition range 5.0 - 6.8. It is used as an intermediate in manufacturing of dyes.\n\nAurin was first prepared in 1834 by the German chemist Friedlieb Ferdinand Runge, who obtained it by distilling coal tar. He named it \"Rosölsäure\" or \"Rosaölsäure\" (red oil acid). In 1861, the German chemists Hermann Kolbe and Rudolf Schmitt presented the synthesis of aurin by heating oxalic acid and creosote (which contains phenol) in the presence of concentrated sulfuric acid. (Gradually, chemists realized that commercial aurin was not a pure compound, but was actually a mixture of similar compounds.)\n\nAurin is formed by heating of phenol and oxalic acid in concentrated sulfuric acid.\n\nCauses eye, skin, and respiratory tract irritation. Avoid ingestion and/ or inhalation.\n\n"}
{"id": "2133273", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2133273", "title": "Synchronized Rockers", "text": "Synchronized Rockers\n\nSynchronized Rockers is tribute album recorded by various artists covering songs by The Pillows. It was released on September 16, 2004, celebrating the band's 15th anniversary.\n\n"}
{"id": "2133279", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2133279", "title": "Space–time block code", "text": "Space–time block code\n\nSpace–time block coding is a technique used in wireless communications to transmit multiple copies of a data stream across a number of antennas and to exploit the various received versions of the data to improve the reliability of data transfer. The fact that the transmitted signal must traverse a potentially difficult environment with scattering, reflection, refraction and so on and may then be further corrupted by thermal noise in the receiver means that some of the received copies of the data may be closer to the original signal than others. This redundancy results in a higher chance of being able to use one or more of the received copies to correctly decode the received signal. In fact, space–time coding combines \"all\" the copies of the received signal in an optimal way to extract as much information from each of them as possible.\n\nMost work on wireless communications until the early 1990s had focused on having an antenna array at only one end of the wireless link — usually at the receiver. Seminal papers by Gerard J. Foschini and Michael J. Gans, Foschini and Emre Telatar enlarged the scope of wireless communication possibilities by showing that for the highly scattering environment substantial capacity gains are enabled when antenna arrays are used at both ends of a link.\nAn alternative approach to utilizing multiple antennas relies on having multiple transmit antennas and only optionally multiple receive antennas. Proposed by Vahid Tarokh, Nambi Seshadri and Robert Calderbank, these space–time codes (STCs) achieve significant error rate improvements over single-antenna systems. Their original scheme was based on trellis codes but the simpler block codes were utilised by Siavash Alamouti, and later Vahid Tarokh, Hamid Jafarkhani and Robert Calderbank to develop space–time block-codes (STBCs). STC involves the transmission of multiple redundant copies of data to compensate for fading and thermal noise in the hope that some of them may arrive at the receiver in a better state than others. In the case of STBC in particular, the data stream to be transmitted is encoded in blocks, which are distributed among spaced antennas and across time. While it is necessary to have multiple transmit antennas, it is not necessary to have multiple receive antennas, although to do so improves performance. This process of receiving diverse copies of the data is known as diversity reception and is what was largely studied until Foschini's 1998 paper.\n\nAn STBC is usually represented by a matrix. Each row represents a time slot and each column represents one antenna's transmissions over time.\n\nHere, formula_2 is the modulated symbol to be transmitted in time slot formula_3 from antenna formula_4. There are to be formula_5 time slots and formula_6 transmit antennas as well as formula_7 receive antennas. This block is usually considered to be of 'length' formula_5\n\nThe code rate of an STBC measures how many symbols per time slot it transmits on average over the course of one block. If a block encodes formula_9 symbols, the code-rate is\n\nOnly one standard STBC can achieve full-rate (rate 1) — Alamouti's code.\n\nSTBCs as originally introduced, and as usually studied, are orthogonal. This means that the STBC is designed such that the vectors representing any pair of columns taken from the coding matrix is orthogonal. The result of this is simple, linear, optimal decoding at the receiver. Its most serious disadvantage is that all but one of the codes that satisfy this criterion must sacrifice some proportion of their data rate (see Alamouti's code).\n\nMoreover, there exist quasi-orthogonal STBCs that achieve higher data rates at the cost of inter-symbol interference (ISI). Thus, their error-rate performance is lower bounded by the one of orthogonal rate 1 STBCs, that provide ISI free transmissions due to orthogonality.\n\nThe design of STBCs is based on the so-called diversity criterion derived by Tarokh et al. in their earlier paper on space–time trellis codes. Orthogonal STBCs can be shown to achieve the maximum diversity allowed by this criterion.\n\nCall a codeword\n\nand call an erroneously decoded received codeword\n\nThen the matrix\n\nhas to be full-rank for any pair of distinct codewords formula_14 and formula_15 to give the maximum possible diversity order of formula_16. If instead, formula_17 has minimum rank formula_18 over the set of pairs of distinct codewords, then the space–time code offers diversity order formula_19. An examination of the example STBCs shown below reveals that they all satisfy this criterion for maximum diversity.\n\nSTBCs offer only diversity gain (compared to single-antenna schemes) and not coding gain. There is no coding scheme included here — the redundancy purely provides diversity in space and time. This is contrast with space–time trellis codes which provide both diversity and coding gain since they spread a conventional trellis code over space and time.\n\nSiavash Alamouti invented the simplest of all the STBCs in 1998, although he did not coin the term \"space–time block code\" himself. It was designed for a two-transmit antenna system and has the coding matrix:\nwhere * denotes complex conjugate.\n\nIt is readily apparent that this is a rate-1 code. It takes two time-slots to transmit two symbols. Using the optimal decoding scheme discussed below, the bit-error rate (BER) of this STBC is equivalent to formula_21-branch maximal ratio combining (MRC). This is a result of the perfect orthogonality between the symbols after receive processing — there are two copies of each symbol transmitted and formula_7 copies received.\n\nThis is a very special STBC. It is the only orthogonal STBC that achieves rate-1. That is to say that it is the only STBC that can achieve its full diversity gain without needing to sacrifice its data rate. Strictly, this is only true for complex modulation symbols. Since almost all constellation diagrams rely on complex numbers however, this property usually gives Alamouti's code a significant advantage over the higher-order STBCs even though they achieve a better error-rate performance. See 'Rate limits' for more detail.\n\nThe significance of Alamouti's proposal in 1998 is that it was the first demonstration of a method of encoding which enables full diversity with \"linear\" processing at the receiver. Earlier proposals for transmit diversity required processing schemes which scaled \"exponentially\" with the number of transmit antennas. Furthermore, it was the first open-loop transmit diversity technique which had this capability. Subsequent generalizations of Alamouti's concept have led to a tremendous impact on the wireless communications industry.\n\nTarokh et al. discovered a set of STBCs that are particularly straightforward, and coined the scheme's name. They also proved that no code for more than 2 transmit antennas could achieve full-rate. Their codes have since been improved upon (both by the original authors and by many others). Nevertheless, they serve as clear examples of why the rate cannot reach 1, and what other problems must be solved to produce 'good' STBCs. They also demonstrated the simple, linear decoding scheme that goes with their codes under perfect channel state information assumption.\n\nTwo straightforward codes for 3 transmit antennas are:\n\nThese codes achieve rate-1/2 and rate-3/4 respectively. These two matrices give examples of why codes for more than two antennas must sacrifice rate — it is the only way to achieve orthogonality. One particular problem with formula_24 is that it has uneven power among the symbols it transmits. This means that the signal does not have a constant envelope and that the power each antenna must transmit has to vary, both of which are undesirable. Modified versions of this code that overcome this problem have since been designed.\n\nTwo straightforward codes for 4 transmit antennas are:\n\nThese codes achieve rate-1/2 and rate-3/4 respectively, as for their 3-antenna counterparts. formula_26 exhibits the same uneven power problems as formula_24. An improved version of formula_26 is\nwhich has equal power from all antennas in all time-slots.\n\nOne particularly attractive feature of orthogonal STBCs is that maximum likelihood decoding can be achieved at the receiver with only linear processing. In order to consider a decoding method, a model of the wireless communications system is needed.\n\nAt time formula_30, the signal formula_31 received at antenna formula_4 is:\n\nwhere formula_34 is the path gain from transmit antenna formula_3 to receive antenna formula_4, formula_37 is the signal transmitted by transmit antenna formula_3 and formula_39 is a sample of additive white Gaussian noise (AWGN).\n\nThe maximum-likelihood detection rule is to form the decision variables\nwhere formula_41 is the sign of formula_42 in the formula_9 row of the coding matrix, formula_44 denotes that formula_45 is (up to a sign difference), the formula_46 element of the coding matrix, \nfor formula_47 and then decide on constellation symbol formula_42 that satisfies\nwith formula_50 the constellation alphabet. Despite its appearance, this is a simple, linear decoding scheme that provides maximal diversity.\n\nApart from there being no full-rate, complex, orthogonal STBC for more than 2 antennas, it has been further shown that, for more than two antennas, the maximum possible rate is 3/4. Codes have been designed which achieve a good proportion of this, but they have very long block-length. This makes them unsuitable for practical use, because decoding cannot proceed until \"all\" transmissions in a block have been received, and so a longer block-length, formula_5, results in a longer decoding delay. One particular example, for 16 transmit antennas, has rate-9/16 and a block length of 22 880 time-slots!\n\nIt has been proven that the highest rate any formula_6-antenna code can achieve is\n\nwhere formula_54 or formula_55, if no linear processing is allowed in the code matrix (the above maximal rate proved in only applies to the original definition of orthogonal designs, i.e., any entry in the matrix is formula_56, or formula_57, which forces that any variable formula_58 can not be repeated in any column of the matrix). This rate limit is conjectured to hold for any complex orthogonal space-time block codes even when any linear processing is allowed among the complex variables. Closed-form recursive designs have been found.\n\nThese codes exhibit partial orthogonality and provide only part of the diversity gain mentioned above. An example reported by Hamid Jafarkhani is:\n\nThe orthogonality criterion only holds for columns (1 and 2), (1 and 3), (2 and 4) and (3 and 4). Crucially, however, the code is full-rate and still only requires linear processing at the receiver, although decoding is slightly more complex than for orthogonal STBCs. Results show that this Q-STBC outperforms (in a bit-error rate sense) the fully orthogonal 4-antenna STBC over a good range of signal-to-noise ratios (SNRs). At high SNRs, though (above about 22 dB in this particular case), the increased diversity offered by orthogonal STBCs yields a better BER. Beyond this point, the relative merits of the schemes have to be considered in terms of useful data throughput.\n\nQ-STBCs have also been developed considerably from the basic example shown.\n\n"}
{"id": "2133286", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2133286", "title": "STTC", "text": "STTC\n\nSTTC may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2133291", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2133291", "title": "Pathovar", "text": "Pathovar\n\nA pathovar is a bacterial strain or set of strains with the same or similar characteristics, that is differentiated at infrasubspecific level from other strains of the same species or subspecies on the basis of distinctive pathogenicity to one or more plant hosts.\n\nPathovars are named as a ternary or quaternary addition to the species binomial name, for example the bacterium that causes citrus canker \"Xanthomonas axonopodis\", has several pathovars with different host ranges, \"X. axonopodis\" pv. \"citri\" is one of them; the abbreviation 'pv.' means pathovar.\n\nThe type strains of pathovars are pathotypes, which are distinguished from the types (holotype, neotype, etc.) of the species to which the pathovar belongs.\n\n"}
{"id": "2133294", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2133294", "title": "Type A videotape", "text": "Type A videotape\n\n1 inch type A (designated Type A by SMPTE) is a reel-to-reel helical scan analog recording videotape format developed by Ampex in 1965, that was one of the first standardized reel-to-reel magnetic tape formats in the 1 inch (25 mm) width; most others of that size at that time were proprietary. It was capable of 350 lines.\nType A was developed as mainly an industrial and institutional format, where it saw the most success. It was not widely used for broadcast television, since it did not meet Federal Communications Commission (FCC) specifications for broadcast videotape formats; the only format passing the FCC's muster at the time was the then-industry-standard 2-inch quadruplex.\nThe Type A format received broad use by the White House Communications Agency from 1966 to 1969. The WHCA, under U.S. President Lyndon B. Johnson, used the format to videotape television broadcasts off the air or from direct White House feeds. The WHCA recorded programs and events including television appearances by President Johnson, special news broadcasts and news interview programs. Beginning on April 1, 1968, the WHCA taping system was expanded to also include daily morning and evening news programs, both network and local. When U.S. President Richard M. Nixon succeeded Johnson in office in 1969, the WHCA's Type A recording system was continued until it was gradually phased out, later that year, in favor of a recording system using a 2-inch format.\n\nThe format was also used by the Vanderbilt Television News Archive at Vanderbilt University in Nashville, Tennessee, upon the archive's founding in 1968. The archive would continue to use the Type A format to make black & white recordings of national television newscasts (received off-air, and recorded by the archive, from the local Nashville network-affiliated TV stations that aired them) until 1979, when the archive upgraded to full-color-capable U-Matic VCRs for recording.\n\nEarly VTRs were black-and-white (B/W) only, later VTRs supported color television, with a heterodyne playback. Still later units had time base correction playback, like the VPR-1 that could be used at television station and post-production houses.\n\nThe VPR-1 had several problems, it did not record the vertical blanking interval, which is why it was not compliant to FCC broadcast standards. The video quality was not as good as other broadcast VTRs. Thus Sony and Ampex agreed to make a SMPTE approved type C format VTR (which was based on Type A). Hitachi also later made a C format VTR.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2133295", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2133295", "title": "Courtice", "text": "Courtice\n\nCourtice () is a community in Ontario, Canada, about east of Toronto, adjacent to Oshawa and west of Bowmanville in the Municipality of Clarington. Courtice Road (Durham Road 34) connects with Highway 401 at Interchange 425, providing arterial access to the community. Darlington Provincial Park is located just south of Courtice.\n\nThe area is bounded by Townline Rd. on the west, Hancock Rd. on the east, Pebblestone Rd. on the north and Highway 401 on the south. It is geographically contiguous with populated parts of the neighbouring city of Oshawa, but separated by a band of rural wilderness from other populated parts of Clarington; accordingly, in the Canada 2011 Census, Courtice was counted as part of the population centre of Oshawa rather than that of Bowmanville/Newcastle.\n\nThe area was first settled in 1794 by the Burk and Trulls families. Courtice, however, takes its name from another one of the early families who settled the area. Thomas Courtice arrived in Darlington Township in 1831, followed by his brothers Christopher and James in 1833. The family emigrated from Putford Bridge, Devonshire, England. The community was centred on the Ebenezer Church/Schoolhouse which was erected in the 1850s. For a while the growing settlement was called \"Ebenezer\", and as it grew it would eventually encompass another hamlet called \"Short's Corners\". Short's Corners was located at King St. E (Highway 2) and Courtice Rd. George Short owned the blacksmith shop there where today Roy Nichols Motors sits. This became downtown Courtice. Across the street on the north side of Highway 2 was where A.F. Rundles' Market was built in 1860. Beside it on the east was James Courtice's carpenter shop, built in 1874; and on the west was the Post office run by John Walter in 1908. Just west of the Post office was the old Methodist Church. All of these buildings were torn down when Highway 2 was widened in 1988. The present NW corner of Courtice Rd. and Highway 2, where a townhouse complex sits, is where the Courtice Cheese factory and shop was located. Across the street at the present day auto body shop there used to be a wagon maker's shop.\n\nJust to the west of Courtice was a neighbouring hamlet called Prestonvale (today part of Courtice). It was once called Black's Hill and in 1825 was the site of the first post office in Darlington Township located just east of today's Stuttering Johns's Smokehouse. The postmaster was none other than Colonel James Black, the originator of the name. It was also later called Tooley's Hill after Augustus Tooley who ran the grist mill at Kingston Road where Farewell Creek crosses underneath Highway 2. Today this is the present location across the road from the Tim Horton's. The children of Prestonvale went to a school (Section #8) called Mount Carswell located on the north side of Concession 3 (now Nash Rd), just west of Trulls Rd on James Reynolds' farmstead. Alf Wilborn ran the blacksmith shop at the corner of Kingston Rd. and Prestonvale Rd. A sawmill existed on the north side of Nash Rd. just to the east of Farewell Creek, where you can see an old bridge just to the north of the present day bridge. This property was the farmstead of William Scott. Across the street from the school was the Temperance Hall located on A.V. Scott's property.\n\nA post office with the name \"Courtice\" was finally established in the mid 19th century, and rail connections became available on both the Canadian Pacific and Grand Trunk main lines which passed south of the village closer to Lake Ontario. Courtice remained primarily a small rural village well into the 20th century, but housing developments beginning in the mid-1980s caused the community to grow rapidly. In 1988 Highway 2 was widened from its 2 lanes to its present 5 lanes. By the mid-1990s growth had slowed somewhat, although new housing developments are continuing and the area remains popular due to relatively low prices. Housing is primarily single-family detached residential, and most residents travel to Toronto or points west in Durham Region for employment. Commercial development is centred along Highway 2, with particular concentrations at the intersections with Townline Road (at the boundary with Oshawa) and Courtice Road.\n\nAfter the War of 1812 the first post office was set up at Black's Hill (later called Prestonvale) by Colonel James Black. It serviced the settlers in the Courtice area as well. The first mail carrier was William Mulligan, who did deliveries in the area with the aid of his mule. Mulligan's mule lived until 1863. The first post office by the new name \"Courtice\" was established in 1882 when Mr. C.W. Lewis received the contract as its first postmaster. In 1908 John Smith took over the post and the Walter family continued on as postmasters until 1963 when the post office was finally closed. The post office was located on the north side Highway 2 just west of Courtice Rd. It was demolished when Highway 2 was widened to 5 lanes in 1988.\n\nWith the closure of the post office mail operations from Bowmanville set up Courtice's mail delivery on RR2 and RR3 Bowmanville and later an RR6 was established as Courtice grew.\n\nWith the increased housing developments in the area by the late 1980s and early 1990s, the residents of Courtice had already asked for a new postal address and community identity. The Town of Newcastle (now Clarington, Ontario) authorized Canada Post to provide the new postal identity and establish Courtice's boundaries. Today, all mail for Courtice is handled by the Bowmanville Post Office.\n\nPublic education is controlled by the Kawartha Pine Ridge District School Board through five elementary and one secondary school, while the Peterborough Victoria Northumberland and Clarington Catholic District School Board controls Catholic education through three elementary and one secondary school. The schools include:\n\nElementary schools:\n\nSecondary schools:\n\nThe South Courtice Arena opened in the fall of 2003. It has two ice rinks: one Olympic sized and the other NHL sized. It also has an NFL-sized turf field in behind the arena. It is home to the Clarington Speed Skating Club.\nThe Courtice Community Complex includes a large indoor pool optimized for family and lap swimming, a separate wading pool for children, a large water-slide, sauna, hot-tub, weight and training facilities and numerous meeting rooms. The same complex also houses a branch of the Clarington library.\n\n\nPublic transit bus service is provided by Durham Region Transit and GO Transit. GO Transit has begun work to extend the Lakeshore East commuter train line to Bowmanville which includes a train station in Courtice.\n\nCourtice Road (Durham Road 34) connects with Highway 401 at Interchange 425.\n\n\nAt the north end of Courtice, heading towards Mitchell's Corners, Ontario, stood a film studio called Canukr Films. It was built within a converted barn. Canadian, Ukrainian and Urdu movies were produced here in the 1960s and 1970s. A Ukrainian town site was also built in conjunction with Canukr on the property.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2133309", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2133309", "title": "Tatwine", "text": "Tatwine\n\nTatwine (c. 670–734) was the tenth Archbishop of Canterbury from 731 to 734. Prior to becoming archbishop, he was a monk and abbot of a Benedictine monastery. Besides his ecclesiastical career, Tatwine was a writer, and riddles he composed survive. Another work he composed was on the grammar of the Latin language, which was aimed at advanced students of that language. He was subsequently considered a saint.\n\nTatwine was a Mercian by birth. His epigraph at Canterbury stated that when he died he was in old age, so perhaps he was born around 670. He became a monk at the monastery at Breedon-on-the-Hill in the present-day County of Leicestershire, and then abbot of that house. Through the influence of King Æthelbald he was appointed as Archbishop of Canterbury in 731 and was consecrated on 10 June 731. He was one of a number of Mercians who were appointed to Canterbury during the 730s and 740s. Apart from his consecration of the Bishops of Lindsey and Selsey in 733, Tatwine's period as archbishop appears to have been uneventful. He died in office on 30 July 734. Later considered a saint, his feast day is 30 July.\n\nBede's commentary on Tatwine calls him a \"vir religione et Prudentia insignis, sacris quoque literis nobiliter instructus\" (a man notable for his prudence, devotion and learning). These qualities were displayed in the two surviving manuscripts of his riddles and four of his \"Ars Gramattica Tatuini\". The \"Ars\" is one of only two surviving eighth-century Latin grammars from England, and was based on the works of Priscian and Consentius. The riddles deal with such diverse topics as philosophy and charity, the five senses and the alphabet, and a book and a pen. The riddles are formed in acrostics. The grammar is a reworking of Donatus's \"Ars Minor\" with the addition of information drawn from other grammarians. It was not designed for a newcomer to the Latin language, but is designed for more advanced students. It covers the eight parts of speech through illustrations drawn from classical scholars, although not directly but through other grammatical works. There are also some examples drawn from the Psalms. The work was completed before he became archbishop, and was used not only in England but also on the continent. A recent edition of his works is \"Tatuini Opera omnia\", published in 1968 with some translations into English and German from the original Latin.\n"}
{"id": "2133317", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2133317", "title": "WIFN (AM)", "text": "WIFN (AM)\n\nWIFN (\"1340 The Fan 3\"), is an Atlanta AM radio station transmitting on a frequency of 1340 kHz. The station is currently broadcasting a sports radio format, and is a sister station to WCNN \"680 The Fan\", running programming from Fox Sports Radio.\n\nThe station is co-owned with AM radio stations WCNN AM 680 and WFOM AM 1230. All three stations are owned by Dickey Broadcasting, with studios in Buckhead. The station previously aired a Spanish language sports/talk format and a gospel music format.\n\nAs WALR this station simulcast their former sister station WALR-FM (then known as \"Kiss 104.7\").\n\nThis station was a simulcast of WFOM on two occasions. In earlier years (as WIGO), the station was a black talk-formatted station with studios located on the west side of the city, and well before that (as WAKE), a well-known rock station, with studios at the Georgian Terrace Hotel on Peachtree Street in downtown Atlanta.\n\nWIFN's transmitting facility and tower is located in southwest Atlanta near the Atlanta University Center campus. Originally as WAKE (now assigned to a station in Valparaiso, Indiana), it broadcast from the Georgian Terrace Hotel. It was later WIGO (calls now on WIGO AM 1570 locally). \"WIFN\" was previously on a station in nearby Macon, Georgia, which is now WLXF 105.5 there.\n\n"}
{"id": "2133323", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2133323", "title": "Differential space–time code", "text": "Differential space–time code\n\nDifferential space–time codes are ways of transmitting data in wireless communications. They are forms of space–time code that do not need to know the channel impairments at the receiver in order to be able to decode the signal. They are usually based on space–time block codes, and transmit one block-code from a set in response to a change in the input signal. The differences among the blocks in the set are designed to allow the receiver to extract the data with good reliability. The first differential space-time block code was disclosed by Vahid Tarokh and Hamid Jafarkhani.\n"}
{"id": "2133330", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2133330", "title": "Vuanirewa", "text": "Vuanirewa\n\nThe Vuanirewa is the ruling tribe (yavusa) of the Lau Islands, a scattered group of more than a hundred islands (16 inhabited) and reefs along the eastern edge of Fiji.\n\nThe members of this clan all hail from the village of Tubou on the island of Lakeba and from their original roots in Nayau. The Lakeba faction are the descendants of Kalouyalewa (Nayau) whom now form four noble households (mataqali) that make up the tribe. These four noble households are Matailakeba, Vatuwaqa, Koroicumu and Naivi and all claim descent from the first High Chief (Sau) of the dynasty, Niumataiwalu, a grandson of Kalouyalewa.\n\nNaivi is traditionally the eldest of the households; however due to historic power struggles, Naivi and Koroicumu were subdued in battle by the younger households of Vatuwaqa and Matailakeba. Therefore all claims to the title can only be asserted from members of the latter two noble households.\n\nThe Tui Nayau, or Titular Paramount Chief of the Lau Islands, has always been from one of these four noble houses, the most recent being Ratu Sir Kamisese Mara (1920-2004, installed 1969) who was from the household Matailakeba. Ratu Finau Mara (born 1960), the eldest son of Ratu Mara, is considered to be a likely successor of this title.\n\nDuring the reign of Uluilakeba I, the son of Niumataiwalu, a power struggle occurred that resulted in the death of Uluilakeba 1 by Codro and his followers. Codro, who had Bauan roots and who now lived in Levuka (a village not far from Tubou), continued to torment and subdue the people of Lakeba. Prior to this though, Rasolo the brother of Uluilakeba 1, was banished to Nayau since Uluilakeba suspected him of having an affair with his wife and during this time Matawalu also brother to Uluilakeba 1, was in Bau but resided in Nayau with Rasolo.\n\nSo when Lakebans looked for a leader, they looked to Nayau where the two brothers of Uluilakeba 1 were still residing with their uncle, Delailoa. Delailoa was the remaining son of Qoma (elder brother to Delaivugalei who was Niumataiwalu's father) that survived Niumataiwalu slaying all his brothers and father before he himself was slain in Ono. Niumataiwalu, realizing that there was only one close relative alive, Delailoa (since all his brothers and his father were slain by Qoma's children that Niumataiwalu had exacted revenge for), and prior to his slaying in Ono, called Delailoa and sent him to Nayau to retain his name and their position of Tui Nayau.\n\nWhen Matawalu returned to Lakeba after the elders asked him to be their chief in Lakeba (after defeating Codro), it was then decided by the priest at Nayau that the two brothers should jump off a cliff at Delaiwawa, the highest peak near Narocivo village, and that the one that survived would be installed as Sau kei Lakeba. Rasolo jumped and was cushioned by a Rewa tree (from whence the Vuanirewa name came from) and he then was also installed as Tui Nayau.\n\nThe traditional installation of the title of Tui Nayau is still being performed to this date by the Yavusa Maumi in the village of Narocivo on Nayau island, confirming the origin of the title.\n\nUnder the subjection and torment of Codro the people of Lakeba continued to live in fear. Codro treated nothing as sacred and claimed anything his eyes would fall upon as his own he would stand and say 'Sikava na waitui' and anyone apposing his claim would be immediately killed and eaten. \nTagi valu ko lakeba kina Yavusa Vuanirewa was the cry of the Lakeban People eventually News of this were heard in Bau where Matawalu was staying (this is where the name Matawalu Tikoibau came from).\n\nMatawalu came to Lakeba with his Bauan relatives via Nayau and Nasaqalau. He built up his army from there before moving to Levuka where Codro was residing. They came down following the stream causing the women to say \" sa vuvu mai na wai\" meaning \"the colour of the water has changed\" thinking that it could be raining up in the mountains or people coming back from their farms as they didn't realise that Matawalu and his army had arrived. \nThe very first man to die in this battle was standing behind a banana tree. It is said that when Matawalu swung his 'Wau' (War Club) to kill him it cut through the banana tree and decapitated the guard. \nThe people of Levuka with Codro fled to the sea in their canoes and waited there for Matawalu's army to come and get them. As a sealord Codro shouted \"Come and get me, I'm in my territory and if you think you're strong enough come and get me\". \nMatawalu's army waited and waited for days, Codro with no food started to eat his own people. So when a particular person knows that his day is coming closer he will jump out and start swimming ashore where Matawalu's army were waiting. \nCodro was eventually killed and some of his remaining people fled to Aiwa, an island close by and later some went on to Oneata. They were later brought back to Lakeba and are now in Levuka. The club which Matawalu used during this battle is still to this day with his descendent's the Tokatoka Navutoka in Lakeba.\n\nAfter the slaying of Codro, Matawalu became the Roko Sau in Lakeba. He sent the Katubalevu clan and Nasaqalau people to go to Nayau and bring his elder brother to be the Chief of Lakeba. The reply from Nayau was that \"Lakeba is full of trickery, if they come they will get killed\". \nSo he went himself and asked them to come. \"You must come and be our chief because your mother is not from there and I will make you Chief\" So his elders came to Lakeba bringing the Tui Nayau title with them. As of today The clan Navutoka also known as Koroicumu, named after Matawalu's gallantry in battle, are the only clan that prepares the Yaqona Vakaturaga for the Tui Nayau.they all went to sleep after that and something amazing happen.\n\n"}
{"id": "2133331", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2133331", "title": "Easton in Gordano", "text": "Easton in Gordano\n\nEaston in Gordano () is a village in Somerset, England, about northwest of Bristol city centre. It is part of the civil parish of Pill and Easton-in-Gordano and within the District of North Somerset. In 2011 the population of the parish was 4,828.\n\nThe village is close to junction 19 of the M5 motorway, making it popular with commuters working in the Bristol area. Most facilities are in the nearby larger village of Pill, or the town of Portishead which lies some to the west.\n\nA settlement of 24 households was recorded in the Domesday Book of 1086; for many centuries it was also known as St George. The name Gordano comes from Old English and is descriptive of the triangular shape of the whole valley from Clevedon to Portishead, being the ablative singular of the Latinised form of \"Gorden\" meaning \"muddy valley\".\n\nEaston in Gordano was an ancient parish in the Portbury Hundred. The parish also included the village of Pill. It became a civil parish in 1866.\n\nAfter the Second World War a large housing development grew up in the Lodway area, northwest of Pill village. Construction of the M5 motorway included the nearby Gordano service area.\n\nThe civil parish of Easton in Gordano was renamed Pill and Easton-in-Gordano in 2011, reflecting the larger size and population of Pill. Pill and Easton-in-Gordano parish council has responsibility for local issues, including setting an annual precept (local rate) to cover the council’s operating costs and producing annual accounts for public scrutiny. The parish council evaluates local planning applications and works with the local police, district council officers, and neighbourhood watch groups on matters of crime, security, and traffic. The parish council's role also includes initiating projects for the maintenance and repair of parish facilities, such as the village hall or community centre, playing fields and playgrounds, as well as consulting with the district council on the maintenance, repair, and improvement of highways, drainage, footpaths, public transport, and street cleaning. Conservation matters (including trees and listed buildings) and environmental issues are also of interest to the council.\n\nThe parish falls within the unitary authority of North Somerset which was created in 1996, as established by the Local Government Act 1992. It provides a single tier of local government with responsibility for almost all local government functions within its area including local planning and building control, local roads, council housing, environmental health, markets and fairs, refuse collection, recycling, cemeteries, crematoria, leisure services, parks, and tourism. It is also responsible for education, social services, libraries, main roads, public transport, trading standards, waste disposal and strategic planning, although fire, police and ambulance services are provided jointly with other authorities through the Avon Fire and Rescue Service, Avon and Somerset Constabulary and the South Western Ambulance Service.\n\nNorth Somerset's area covers part of the ceremonial county of Somerset but it is administered independently of the non-metropolitan county. Its administrative headquarters is in the town hall in Weston-super-Mare. Between 1 April 1974 and 1 April 1996, it was the Woodspring district of the county of Avon. Before 1974 that the parish was part of the Long Ashton Rural District.\n\nAn electoral ward exists with the same name. The ward stretches from the Royal Portbury Dock through \"Easton-in-Gordano\" to Long Ashton. The total population of the ward taken at the 2011 census was 2,655.\n\nThe parish is represented in the House of Commons of the Parliament of the United Kingdom as part of the North Somerset constituency. It elects one Member of Parliament (MP) by the first past the post system of election, currently Liam Fox of the Conservative Party. It is also part of the South West England constituency of the European Parliament which elects seven MEPs using the d'Hondt method of party-list proportional representation.\n\nIt is situated at the north-eastern end of the Gordano Valley, on the south bank of the Avon, opposite Shirehampton, adjacent to the village of Pill and commands an extensive view over the Bristol Channel. South Wales and Royal Portbury Dock are also clearly visible. Part of the Dock is within the parish.\n\nSt George's Flower Bank is a local nature reserve alongside a main road.\n\nThere are two pubs — the Kings Arms and the Rudgleigh Inn. The Rudgleigh Inn is located on the main A369 Portishead to Bristol Road. The Kings Arms is located in the village on St. Georges Hill. It is also home to three local skittles teams and as such there is a skittle alley as an annex to the pub.\n\nThe village Church of St George, and was rebuilt, with the exception of the tower, in 1872. The registers date from 1559. The date of the first Church on this site is unknown, but records exist dating back to 1239. It has been designated by English Heritage as a grade II* listed building.\n\nThere is a local cricket club, and a football club called \"St. George Easton in Gordano AFC\" which was founded in 1917. Easton-in-Gordano is also home to the thriving judo club, Tora Judo Kai, which meets in the St John Ambulance Hall.\n\nThere is a doctors' surgery on the Pill/Easton in Gordano Boundary at Lodway Close.\n\nEaston in Gordano is well served by roads given the nearby M5 and A369 which links to Bristol and Portishead. There is a service station on the M5 named after the village. Also a bus route from Portishead to Bristol City Centre runs through the village.\n\nThe local Clevedon Mercury and Portishead Times newspapers are delivered to residents free of charge usually by Saturday morning.\n\nThe village is celebrated in the song of the same name, by The Wurzels.\n\nEaston in Gordano is the birthplace of the explorer Bertram Thomas.\n\n"}
{"id": "2133338", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2133338", "title": "WFOR", "text": "WFOR\n\nWFOR may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2133341", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2133341", "title": "WFOM", "text": "WFOM\n\nWFOM (1230 AM, \"The Sports X\") is an Atlanta-area radio station broadcasting on a frequency of 1230 kHz. The radio station is licensed to the city of Marietta, Georgia, and currently is an Fox Sports Radio affiliate. WFOM, along with WCNN and WIFN, are owned by Dickey Broadcasting. The broadcast facilities are in Buckhead, even though the signal is weak in that area.\n\nWFOM was known around Marietta, Georgia and Cobb County for its Top 40 format during the 1960s & 1970s. Despite a rather inferior signal, WFOM regularly placed within the top-five of rated Atlanta-area stations, Metro-wide. The Top 40 success of the station, which included prominence in the music industry, influenced Jerry Crowe, the radio executive co-owner in co-creating \"Video Concert Hall\", precursor to MTV. (Crowe purchased the station from the estate of Jimmy Davenport, who was a leading rock promoter in the South throughout the 1960s and early 1970s. Among other events, the crew convinced Wolfman Jack to stop by during a visit to Atlanta, where he did one live afternoon airshift in 1973.) WFOM ended its somewhat unusual format in June 1983. The last song that was played in that format was Barbara Mandrell's \"In Times Like These\". The next morning, WFOM started playing Contemporary Christian music. WFOM was known for breaking many new artists to the Atlanta-area audience over many years, including instrumental California-based surf acts, prior to the national breakout of the Beach Boys in 1963. WFOM was way ahead of its Atlanta-based competitors in adding many Soul tunes to its playlist in the mid to late 1960s, by acts such as The Chambers Brothers, Dyke & the Blazers and Johnny Nash. Also added were notable Album/Progressive rock cuts by Deep Purple, Janis Joplin, Vanilla Fudge, Jimi Hendrix and others, while the station maintained a \"typical\" Top 40-AM presentation style. WFOM was by far the first Metro station to air \"The Ballad of John & Yoko\" (1969), \"Time\" by The Chambers Brothers (August 1968), \"Oh Well\" by the pre-pop Fleetwood Mac and \"No Time\" by The Guess Who (both, late 1969), as well as cuts by groups such as Blondie (late-1978) and Culture Club (mid-1982).\n\nWhen Dickey acquired the station in the mid 1990s, the format changed to a quick information format specifically for Cobb County, Georgia. After that failed, the station became a simulcast of WCNN's sports format. In 2004, WFOM switched to a simulcast of WALR's talk format. In 2005, when WALR flipped to Spanish sports, the talk format remained on WFOM. In 2007 WALR briefly simulcast WFOM once again, only to drop the simulcast for sports as a Fox Sports Radio affiliate.\n\nOn August 17, 2015, ESPN Radio returned to the station from WQXI (790 The Zone). The station has since switched to a Fox Sports Radio affiliation, with parent WCNN picking up ESPN Radio.\n\nIn 2015, WFOM and WIFN became the flagship stations of Kennesaw State Owls football.\n\nOn January 4, 2018, WFOM rebranded as \"The Sports X\".\n\nFormer on-air staff include Barry Chase and Scott Woodside, Jack Hurst (sports, former Atlanta Falcons announcer), Rick Ellis, Stan Mason (Kerry Fink), Dale Deason, Keith Connors (WIDE107/Y106,B98.5FM. now in Tampa/St Pete at MAGIC 94.9), Dennis Allen (Stage), Larry Shierbecker, Connie Prichard, Tony Lype, Dain Schult, Scott Evans, Big Hugh \"Baby\" Jarrett, Garry Kinsey, Oscar Woodall (HayWood Media owner/GM, syndicating: \"Today's Sporting News & View\" radio commentary, \"Woody's Weekend Winners\" radio prognostications of HBCU sports and \"Afro-American Sports Digest\" publication), Mike Adams, Mike Durrett, Bob Middleton, Bob Owens/Bob Casey, Pete Owen, Boomer (Steve Sutton), Red Jones, Pepper Martin (sports), Jack Jackson (Jack Giesler), Pat Kelly, David Lloyd, Randy K. Riggs, Barry Brooks, John L. Callihan, Mark Shierbecker, Scott Richards (Rick Ruhl) (Now with KQLH in Los Angeles), Jon Kirby, Don Yow (Sunday Night Talk Show), Darlene Wofford, Mark McCain, Ross Brittian, Gene Lovin, John Drake, Vicki Kay, Herb Emory (air name Jason Woodside), John Long, Gary Pearcey, Bill Duncan, Rebecca Stevens, Vic Jester, Greg McClure, and David Raye (Ray Beadles), plus Wolfman Jack as a visiting DJ for one show.\n\n"}
{"id": "2133348", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2133348", "title": "Princess Tomohito of Mikasa", "text": "Princess Tomohito of Mikasa\n\nNobuko, a Roman Catholic, was born on 9 April 1955 in Tokyo.\nShe is the third daughter and youngest child of , the chairman of the Aso Company (best known originally for its activities in the development of coal mines and metallurgy, but today mainly specializing in cement making, as well as being in the medical, environmental and real estate business) and a member of the House of Representatives from 1949 to 1955. He was also a close associate of Prime Minister Kakuei Tanaka. Her mother, , was the daughter of Prime Minister Shigeru Yoshida. Her elder brother is the former Prime Minister and current Deputy Prime Minister Tarō Asō.\n\nThrough her paternal grandmother, she descends from a younger branch of the feudal Ichinomiya clan. She is the great-granddaughter of the diplomat Count and the great-great-granddaughter of the samurai Ōkubo Toshimichi, famous for having been the cause of the Satsuma Rebellion in 1877.\n\nShe studied in England and graduated from Rosslyn House College in 1973. After returning to Japan, she taught English in Shoto kindergarten in the district of Shibuya, Tokyo.\n\nWhilst in the UK she met her future husband, Prince Tomohito of Mikasa, himself a student at Oxford University. His first marriage proposal was rejected in 1973 because of Nobuko's young age. The Imperial Household Council announced the engagement of Prince Tomohito of Mikasa and Nobuko Asō on 18 April 1980 and the engagement ceremony was held on 21 May 1980. The wedding ceremony took place on 7 November 1980 and she became Princess Tomohito of Mikasa. As tradition dictates, upon her entry into the imperial family and like other members, she received a personal emblem (): the flower of prunus persica (). Born a Roman Catholic, she is not the first Christian to enter the imperial family (Empress Michiko also comes from a Catholic family and was raised in Christian religious institutions), but she is the first to be baptized.\n\nThe couple had two daughters:\n\nThe family lived in a compound within the Akasaka Estate complex, in Akasaka Minato, Tokyo. In October 2009, she separated her residence from her husband and children.\n\nThe Princess became a widow on 6 June 2012, upon the death of her husband. In June 2013 in a statement about the Prince's household, it was announced by the Imperial Household Agency that \"it [had] reduced the number of households in the Imperial family by one\", integrating it into the household led by his father. According to the agency's officials the household integration won't have any effect on the lives of the widow and daughters of Prince Tomohito.\n\nThe Princess accompanied her husband on various missions abroad to charity and welfare events, especially those concerning health issues. She is engaged in various welfare organisations and holds positions as president and vice-president.\n\nIn 1990, the Prince and Princess visited Turkey to attended the celebrations held for the 100th year of relations between Japan and Turkey. In December 1992, the couple visited the cancer ward at New York Medical College. In May 1994, they went to Hawaii mainly to attend a charity dinner held for the reconstruction of Kuakini Hospital. In February 1994, the Prince and Princess went on a trip to Norway to attend the Lillehammer Winter Olympics. In July 1994, Nobuko visited Australia on her own to support the Sydney Royal Research Institute for those with visual and listening disabilities. In April 1998, Tomohito and Nobuko travelled to Turkey to attend the opening ceremony of the Turkey-Japan Foundation Cultural Centre. In July 2003, the Princess in her capacity as Honorary President of the Japan Rose Society, visited Glasgow, United Kingdom, to attend the World Rose Convention.\n\nOn 1 November 2013, Princess Tomohito of Mikasa visited Fukushima Prefecture and met with the people affected by the earthquake which occurred on 11 March 2011. The Princess hadn't performed any official duty since January 2006 because of a stroke and her asthma and it was her first official appearance in seven years. During her illness, she went to Fukushima City several times for treatment. Since then, she has returned to public life. In October 2014, the Princess attended her first banquet at the Imperial Palace since 2003 to welcome King Willem-Alexander and Queen Máxima of the Netherlands. In January 2015, she attended the New Year's Celebrations, the New Year's Greeting, the New Year's Lectures and the Poetry Reading for the first time since 2006, 1996 and 1999 respectively. In May 2015, in her capacity as honorary vice-president of the Japanese Red Cross Society, she attended their annual convention. In April 2016, the Princess represented the Imperial Family by attending a formal dinner at the British ambassador's residence for the 90th birthday of Queen Elizabeth II.\n\nPrincess Tomohito is usually presented by her family as an excellent chef, and has published two books of recipes titled: \n\nThe second book features recipes and ingredients of Fukushima Prefecture.\n\nPrincess Tomohito suffered a transient ischemic attack in May 2004, which forced her to withdraw for a while to the villa of Sōma in Karuizawa, Nagano Prefecture, for medical treatment and rest. In 2008, she also suffered from asthma and was hospitalized. She went to her hometown for medical care and then came back to Tokyo.\n\nSince her marriage, Nobuko is styled as Her Imperial Highness Princess Tomohito of Mikasa.\n\n\n\n\nPrincess Tomohito is a paternal descendant of the Asō clan and is maternally descended from Ōkubo Toshimichi through his son Count Makino Nobuaki. Through her paternal grandmother the Hon. Kanō Natsuko, she is descended from the Tachibana clan of the Miike Domain and from a cadet branch of the Ōkubo clan, who ruled the Odawara Domain. Through her link to the Ōkubo clan, she is an eighth cousin of her late husband and of the present Emperor; all three are seven-times-great-grandchildren of the sixth lord of Hirado, (1684–1757). They are also tenth cousins by virtue of their descent from (1633–1686), a senior palace courtier who held the rank of \"dainagon\" in the late-17th century.\n\n"}
{"id": "2133366", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2133366", "title": "National Cable &amp; Telecommunications Ass'n v. Brand X Internet Services", "text": "National Cable &amp; Telecommunications Ass'n v. Brand X Internet Services\n\nNational Cable & Telecommunications Association v. Brand X Internet Services, 545 U.S. 967 (2005), is a United States Supreme Court case in which the Court declared in a 6–3 decision that the administrative law principle of \"Chevron\" deference to statutory interpretations by administrative agencies tasked with executing the statute trumped the precedents of the United States Courts of Appeals unless the Court of Appeals had held that the statute was \"unambiguous\" under the \"Chevron\" deference. The Supreme Court therefore upheld the Federal Communications Commission's determination that a cable Internet provider is an \"information service\", and not a \"telecommunications service\" and as such competing internet service providers (ISPs) like Brand X Internet were denied access to the cable and phone wires to provide home users with competing internet service.\n\nThis case was important in the battle over network neutrality in the United States.\n\nIn the United States, modern telecommunications law began in 1934 with the passage of the first Telecommunications Act. This act created the Federal Communications Commission and charged said agency to regulate telegraph and telephone providers \"regardless of whether they had monopoly power.\" The Commission also was to place common carrier restrictions on such providers. A \"common carrier\" designation has been historically applied to \"private entities which [have] served the public in the performance of public functions similar to those performed by the government...\" In addition, under common carrier status these entities were charged with \"certain obligations.\"\n\nWith the increased adoption of cable television in the 1970s, the courts were tasked with deciding whether the new medium should be classified according to common carrier stipulations. The first test came in 1972 with \"United States v. Midwest Video Corp.\" In the case, the FCC created a rule which forced cable providers with 3,500 or more subscribers to broadcast or otherwise make their facilities available for local public-access programming. A Court of Appeals vacated the decision, ruling that the Commission had no right to issue it. The Supreme Court reversed, stating that the FCC could indeed regulate cable providers through its so-called \"ancillary jurisdiction.\" Furthermore, the Court stated that '\"until Congress acts to deal with the problems brought about by the emergence of CATV, the FCC should be allowed wide latitude.\"' Seven years later another case dealing with cable and common carrier came before the Court. \"FCC v. Midwest Video II\" involved another FCC decree, this time requiring cable providers with 4,500 or more subscribers and twenty or more channels to provide some of their channel space for publicly-minded programming. This time, the Supreme Court sided with the cable company, reversing the Appeals Court ruling and stating that the FCC overstepped its bounds in passing the regulations. In its opinion, the Court wrote that \"with its access rules, the Commission has transferred control of the content of access cable channels from cable operators to members of the public who wish to communicate by the cable medium. Effectively, the Commission has relegated cable systems, pro tanto, to common-carrier status.'\" This was the first time the Supreme Court distinguished between entities that were subject to common carrier restrictions and those that were not.\n\nIn 1996, Congress passed the Telecommunications Act of 1996, which regulated telecommunications services in light of the breakup of AT&T's monopoly. Providers of telecommunication services were required to sell access to their networks to the public.\n\nSmall Internet service providers, in the era of dial-up service, had equal access to home users because the first services were provided over plain old telephone services (POTS) which were regulated as common carriers.\n\nWhen Cable and Telephone operators wished to have themselves exempted from the competitive requirements of the Telecommunications Act, they pressured the FCC to declare that Internet access was not a telecommunications service, which it did in 2002. With this ruling, Telephone companies could give their own in-house operations pricing advantages over outside competitors, who frequently would be offered line access at double the rate for high speed internet access services on the same line. Telephone companies such as AT&T also require that customers of third party ISPs purchase AT&T-branded landline services in order to provide DSL. Cable companies, on the other hand, offered no access at all to their data lines. These policies would be illegal if Internet were ruled a Telecommunications Service, and telephone companies were forced to act as Common Carriers.\n\nPredatory pricing and unfair service conditions, such as the above-mentioned bundling requirement, led Brand X and a number of other Internet Service Providers to dispute the FCC ruling defining Internet not to be a Telecommunications Service.\n\nSmall ISPs like Brand X hoped that common carrier treatment would open up Internet services to wider competition, benefiting the public with lower prices and better services. A petition was made by Brand X and others to review the FCC's order in 2003. The FCC's ruling that cable internet service was not a \"cable service\" was affirmed, but the ruling that it was strictly an \"information service\" was vacated by the three judge panel, citing the Circuit's June, 2000 decision in \"AT&T v. City of Portland\" and the case was remanded for further action.\n\nBrand X argued that when the agency argument is clearly in error, \"Chevron\" deference ought not apply; substantively, Brand X argued that internet services should be classified as a telecommunications services, because the word telecommunications means communication at a distance, and includes services such as telegraph, telephone, and television, all of which are essentially digital telecommunications services. If Internet were to be considered a telecommunications service, then telephone companies would be required to act as common carriers, with a published price list and other competitive requirements. This would allow rivals like Brand X Internet, AOL and EarthLink to offer faster internet connections.\n\nThe National Cable and Telecommunications Association (NCTA) argued first that the Telecommunications Act defined information services as \"the offering of a capability for generating, acquiring, storing, transforming, processing, retrieving, utilizing, or making available information via telecommunications, and includes electronic publishing\".\n\nNCTA argued that telephone and cable high speed data services were information services not subject to the same regulations as telecommunications services.\n\nNCTA then argued that the FCC's determination ought to be entitled to \"Chevron\" deference. They also argued that because they offered more than just telecommunication services but other information services as well, they should be classified as an information service and therefore not fall under the regulations imposed upon telecommunication services.\n\nThe Court ruled 6–3 that because the Ninth Circuit precedent had held the Telecommunications Act provisions \"vague\", that case was not entitled to preference over the decisions of the agency. Moreover, the Supreme Court agreed that the provisions were vague and ambiguous; since under \"Chevron\" an administrative agency's interpretations of statutes it is responsible for are entitled to deference, the FCC (charged with enforcement of the Telecommunications Act) was entitled to deference in its determination. More generally, the Court ruled that in matters of interpreting a statute the execution of which an administrative agency is charged, the agency's interpretation will be applied even in the face of circuit precedent, unless that precedent had held the statute \"unambiguous\" under \"Chevron\" rules (i.e., analysis under the traditional canons of statutory interpretation made clear the statute's meaning). The decision of the Court of Appeals was therefore reversed. In his dissent, Justice Scalia disputed the Court's contention that '\"cable company does not offe[r] its customers high-speed Internet access because it offers that access only in conjunction with particular applications and functions, rather than ‘separate[ly], ‘as a stand alone offering.’”\n\n\"Brand X\" is considered key case law in the debate of net neutrality in the United States, as it established that the FCC had the authority to classify Internet service as either an information service or a telecommunications service, if the facts were muddy and even if its decision didn't best suit the facts.\n\nChallenges to the FCC's interpretation from technical and economic standpoints have generally been overridden by the case law precedent set by \"Brand X\".\n\nThe FCC created net neutrality protections three for Internet service providers three, each time resulting in legal battles resolved at the court, with the decision bound by \"Brand X\":\n\n\nAgain this was challenged in court, but in the 2016 case \"United States Telecom Ass'n v. FCC\", the court determined that the FCC's authority to reclassify ISPs was still valid from the \"Brand X\" ruling.\n\nIn 2020, Thomas wrote a lone dissent in the Supreme Court's rejection to hear \"Baldwin v. United States\", a case involving the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) and its interpretation of policies. Lower courts had ruled in favor of the IRS in light of \"Brand X\". Thomas, who had authored the original \"Brand X\" majority opinion, wrote in the dissent that \"Regrettably, \"Brand X\" has taken this Court to the precipice of administrative absolutism. Under its rule of deference, agencies are free to invent new (purported) interpretations of statutes and then require courts to reject their own prior interpretations.\" and had suggested that the Court should revisit \"Brand X\" as he sees it now \"to be inconsistent with the Constitution, the Administrative Procedure Act (APA), and traditional tools of statutory interpretation.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2133367", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2133367", "title": "Cuthbert of Canterbury", "text": "Cuthbert of Canterbury\n\nCuthbert (died 26 October 760) was a medieval Anglo-Saxon Archbishop of Canterbury in England. Prior to his elevation to Canterbury, he was abbot of a monastic house, and perhaps may have been Bishop of Hereford also, but evidence for his holding Hereford mainly dates from after the Norman Conquest of England in 1066. While Archbishop, he held church councils and built a new church in Canterbury. It was during Cuthbert's archbishopric that the Diocese of York was raised to an archbishopric. Cuthbert died in 760 and was later regarded as a saint.\n\nOf noble birth, Cuthbert is first recorded as the abbot of Lyminge Abbey, from where he was elevated to the see of Hereford in 736. The identification of the Cuthbert who was Bishop of Hereford with the Cuthbert who became archbishop, however, comes from Florence of Worcester and other post-Conquest sources. The contemporary record in the \"Anglo-Saxon Chronicle\" says that Cuthbert was consecrated archbishop, where if he had been Bishop of Hereford, he would have been translated. No consecration is needed when a bishop is translated from one see to another. Given the nature of the sources, the identification of the bishop of Hereford with the archbishop of Canterbury, while likely, must not be regarded as proven.\n\nIf Cuthbert was at Hereford, he served in that capacity for four years before his elevation to the See of Canterbury in 740. He is credited with the composition of an epitaph for the tomb of his three predecessors at Hereford. The cathedral church of the see may not even have been located at Hereford by Cuthbert's time.\n\nWhoever Cuthbert was prior to his election to Canterbury, he probably owed his selection as archbishop to the influence of Æthelbald, King of Mercia. A number of Mercians were appointed to Canterbury during the 730s and 740s, which suggests that Mercian authority was expanding into Kent.\n\nCuthbert was the recipient of a long letter from Boniface who complained about the lax morals of the clergy in the British Isles, and too much drinking of alcohol by the Anglo-Saxon bishops. Cuthbert also sent letters to Lull who was Archbishop of Mainz and a native of England. During Cuthbert's time as archbishop he no longer claimed authority over all of Britain, like his predecessor Theodore. Pope Gregory III in 735 had sent a pallium to the bishop of York, raising the see of York to the status of an archbishopric. As a sign of the enhanced status of York, Cuthbert only consecrated bishops south of the Humber and his synods were attended only by bishops from the south of England.\n\nCuthbert presided over the Council of Clovesho in 747 along with Æthelbald of Mercia. This gathering mandated that all clergy should explain the basic tenets of Christianity to the laity, as well as legislating on clerical dress, control of monasteries, and the behavior of the clergy. It also mandated that each diocese hold a synod to proclaim the decisions of the council. Cuthbert sent his deacon Cynebert to Pope Gregory III after the council with a report on the council and its resolutions. This action may have been taken in response to Boniface's complaints about Cuthbert and Æthelbald to the papacy. The actions of the council were also gathered into a collection at Cuthbert's command.\n\nAfter the council, Cuthbert continued to correspond with Boniface up until Boniface's martyrdom in 754, and then sent condolences to Boniface's successor. Cuthbert held a second synod in 758, but nothing is known of any enactments it made. He also built the church of St. John the Baptist in Canterbury, which was destroyed by fire in 1067. He was buried in his new church. The new church was located on the west side of the cathedral, and was used as a baptistery. The church also became a burial site for many of the archbishops, and later was used for trials by ordeal. There is no explicit contemporary reference that states that these uses were intended by Cuthbert, but the fact that the church was dedicated to St. John the Baptist argues strongly that Cuthbert at least intended the new building as a baptistery.\n\nThe burial practices of the archbishops did change after Cuthbert, but it is not clear whether this was intended by Cuthbert, as a Post-Conquest Canterbury cartulary has it, or due to other reasons, unconnected with Cuthbert. Although Sonia Hawkes argues that the change in burial customs, which extended over most of Britain, resulted from Cuthbert's mandating burial in church yards, instead of outside the city limits as had been the custom previously. However, the main evidence for this theory is a 16th-century tradition at Canterbury and the archaeological evidence of a change in burial patterns. Although a change did occur, the archaeological evidence does not give a reason why this change happened, and given the late date of the Canterbury tradition, the theory cannot be considered proven.\n\nCuthbert died on 26 October 760, and was later considered a saint with a feast day of 26 October. He was buried in his church of St. John, and was the first Archbishop of Canterbury that was not buried in St Augustine's Abbey. His letters to the Anglo-Saxon missionaries on the European continent show him to have been highly educated.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2133370", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2133370", "title": "Viepri", "text": "Viepri\n\nViepri, is an Italian village in the Colli Martani of central Umbria, a frazione of Massa Martana, 7 km north of that town and another 7 km SSW of Bastardo. It has about 200 inhabitants. One of the more attractive medieval villages of Umbria, in part because of the almost exclusive use of stone in its construction, it was a fortified outpost much contested by Todi and Foligno during the Middle Ages. It is chiefly known today for the Romanesque abbey of Santa Maria in Viepri, but another medieval church, remains of its walls, and two gates also subsist.\n\n"}
{"id": "2133376", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2133376", "title": "Debt of Bones", "text": "Debt of Bones\n\nDebt of Bones is a short novel by Terry Goodkind. It was first published in the August 1998 anthology \"Legends\" then later published as a stand-alone book in hardcover in 2001 and in paperback in 2004.\n\nDuring the war against D'Hara, a young woman meets with Zeddicus Zu'l Zorander, Wizard of the First Order, so that she can force him to pay a debt of bones he owes her and save her child. In so doing, she initiates the series of events leading up to the end of the war with D'Hara and the division of the Westlands, Midlands, and D'Hara by the boundaries.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2133381", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2133381", "title": "Ben Wright", "text": "Ben Wright\n\nBen or Benjamin Wright may refer to:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2133388", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2133388", "title": "Mauro Bolognini", "text": "Mauro Bolognini\n\nMauro Bolognini (28 June 1922 – 14 May 2001) was an Italian film and stage director of literate sensibility, known for his masterly handling of period subject matter.\n\nBolognini was born in Pistoia, in the Tuscany region of Italy. After earning a master's degree in architecture at the University of Florence, Bolognini enrolled at the Centro Sperimentale di Cinematografia (Italian National Film Academy) in Rome, where he studied stage design. After graduation, he became interested in film direction and set out to work as an assistant to directors Luigi Zampa in Italy, and Yves Allégret and Jean Delannoy in France.\n\nBolognini began directing his own feature films in the mid-1950s, and received his first international success with \"Wild Love\" (\"Gli innamorati\"). His other notable films of the 1950s and early 1960s include \"Young Husbands\" (\"Giovani mariti\"), \"The Big Night\" (\"La notte brava\"), \"From a Roman Balcony\" (\"La giornata balorda\"), and the Marcello Mastroianni-Claudia Cardinale starrer \"Il bell'Antonio\" (arguably his masterpiece), all written by Pier Paolo Pasolini.\n\nParting professionally with Pasolini in 1961, Bolognini directed two love stories starring Claudia Cardinale, \"The Lovemakers\" (\"La viaccia\") and \"Careless\" (\"Senilità\"), and the coming-of-age films \"Agostino\" and \"Corruption\" (\"La corruzione\") before turning his talents to a series of international anthology films, including \"The Dolls\" (\"Le bambole\"), \"Three Faces of a Woman\" (\"I tre volti\"), \"The Queens\" (\"Le fate\") and \"The Witches\" (\"Le streghe\").\n\nBolognini returned to features in 1966 with \"Madamigella di Maupin\" (\"Mademoiselle de Maupin\") featuring Catherine Spaak and Robert Hossein. His films of the 1970s include the period dramas \"Metello\" and \"Bubù\", both starring Massimo Ranieri, \"The Murri Affair\" (\"Fatti di gente perbene\") starring Giancarlo Giannini and Catherine Deneuve and \"The Inheritance\" (\"L'eredità Ferramonti\") with Anthony Quinn and Dominique Sanda. \n\nIn 1981, Bolognini filmed \"The Lady of the Camellias\" (\"La storia vera della signora delle camelie\"), inspired by the Alexandre Dumas, fils novel and play. Throughout the decade, he continued directing feature films, as well as the television miniseries \"The Charterhouse of Parma\" and \"A Time of Indifference\". His final feature was the soft-core erotic drama \"Husband and Lovers\" (\"La villa del venerdì\") starring Julian Sands and Joanna Pacula, released in 1991.\n\nIn the mid-1960s, Bolognini started to show an interest, as stage director, in the production of operas and plays. His debut was in 1964 with Verdi's \"Ernani\" at the Teatro Massimo in Palermo, featuring tenor Mario Del Monaco. It was followed, in the same year, by Puccini's \"Tosca\" at the Teatro dell'Opera di Roma in Rome, and by many others, including: Bellini's \"Norma\" at La Scala in Milan (1972), and at the Bolshoi opera house in Moscow (1975); Verdi's \"Aida\" at La Fenice in Venice (1978); and Henze's \"Pollicino\" at the Poliziano opera house in Montepulciano (1995).\n\nBolognini died in Rome, Italy in 2001, aged 78.\n\n"}
