{"id": "2164837", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2164837", "title": "History of Virginia", "text": "History of Virginia\n\nThe History of Virginia begins with documentation by the first Spanish explorers to reach the area in the 1500s, when it was occupied chiefly by Algonquian, Iroquoian, and Siouan peoples. After a failed English attempt to colonize Virginia in the 1580s by Walter Raleigh, permanent English colonization began in Virginia with Jamestown, Virginia, in 1607. The Virginia Company colony was looking for gold but failed and the colonists could barely feed themselves. The famine during the harsh winter of 1609 forced the colonists to eat leather from their clothes and boots and resort to cannibalism. The colony nearly failed until tobacco emerged as a profitable export. It was grown on plantations, using primarily indentured servants for the intensive hand labor involved. After 1662, the colony turned black slavery into a hereditary racial caste. By 1750, the primary cultivators of the cash crop were West African slaves. While the plantations thrived because of the high demand for tobacco, most white settlers raised their families on subsistence farms. Warfare with the Virginia Indian nations had been a factor in the 17th century; after 1700 there was continued conflict with natives east of the Alleghenies, especially in the French and Indian War (1754-1763), when the tribes were allied with the French. The westernmost counties including Wise and Washington only became safe with the death of Bob Benge in 1794.\n\nThe Virginia Colony became the wealthiest and most populated British colony in North America, with an elected General Assembly. The colony was dominated by rich planters who were also in control of the established Anglican Church. Baptist and Methodist preachers brought the Great Awakening, welcoming black members and leading to many evangelical and racially integrated churches. Virginia planters had a major role in gaining independence and in the development of democratic-republican ideals of the United States. They were important in the Declaration of Independence, writing the Constitutional Convention (and preserving protection for the slave trade), and establishing the Bill of Rights. The state of Kentucky separated from Virginia in 1792. Four of the first five presidents were Virginians: George Washington, the \"Father of his country\"; and after 1800, \"The Virginia Dynasty\" of presidents for 24 years: Thomas Jefferson, James Madison, and James Monroe.\n\nDuring the first half of the 19th century, tobacco prices declined and tobacco lands lost much of their fertility. Planters adopted mixed farming, with an emphasis on wheat and livestock, which required less labor. The Constitutions of 1830 and 1850 expanded suffrage but did not equalize white male apportionment statewide. The population grew slowly from 700,000 in 1790, to 1 million in 1830, to 1.2 million in 1860. Virginia was the largest state joining the Confederate States of America in 1861. It became the major theater of war in the American Civil War. Unionists in western Virginia created the separate state of West Virginia. Virginia's economy was devastated in the war and disrupted in Reconstruction, when it was administered as Military District Number One. The first signs of recovery were seen in tobacco cultivation and the related cigarette industry, followed by coal mining and increasing industrialization. In 1883, conservative white Democrats regained power in the state government, ending Reconstruction and implementing Jim Crow laws. The 1902 Constitution limited the number of white voters below 19th-century levels and effectively disfranchised blacks until federal civil rights legislation of the mid-1960s.\n\nFrom the 1920s to the 1960s, the state was dominated by the Byrd Organization, with dominance by rural counties aligned in a Democratic party machine, but their hold was broken over their failed Massive Resistance to school integration. After World War II, the state's economy thrived, with a new industrial and urban base. A statewide community college system was developed. The first U.S. African-American governor since Reconstruction was Virginia's Douglas Wilder in 1990. Since the late 20th century, the contemporary economy has become more diversified in high-tech industries and defense-related businesses. Virginia's changing demography makes for closely divided voting in national elections but it is still generally conservative in state politics.\n\nFor thousands of years before the arrival of the English, various societies of indigenous peoples inhabited the portion of the New World later designated by the English as \"\"Virginia\"\". Archaeological and historical research by anthropologist Helen C. Rountree and others has established 3,000 years of settlement in much of the Tidewater. Even so, a historical marker dedicated in 2015 states that recent archaeological work at Pocahontas Island has revealed prehistoric habitation dating to about 6500 BCE.\n\nAs of the 16th Century, what is now the state of Virginia was occupied by three main culture groups: the Iroquoian, the Eastern Siouan and the Algonquian. The tip of the Delmarva Peninsula south of the Indian River was controlled by the Algonquian Nanticoke. Meanwhile, the Tidewater region along the Chesapeake Bay coastline appears to have been controlled by the Algonquian Piscataway (who lived around the Potomac River), the Powhatan and Chowanoke, or Roanoke (who lived between the James River and Neuse River.). Inland of them were two Iroquoian tribes known as the Nottoway, or Managog, and the Meherrin. The rest of Virginia was almost entirely Eastern Sioux, divided between the Monaghan and the Manahoac, who held lands from central West Virginia, through southern Virginia and up to the Maryland border (the region of the Shenandoah River Valley was controlled by a different people). Also, the lands peoples connected to the Mississippian Culture may have just barely crossed over into the state into its southwestern corner. Later, these tribes merged to form the Yuchi.\n\nRountree has noted that \"empire\" more accurately describes the political structure of the Powhatan. In the late 16th and early 17th centuries, a chief named \"Wahunsunacock\" created this powerful empire by conquering or affiliating with approximately thirty tribes whose territories covered much of what is now eastern Virginia. Known as the Powhatan, or paramount chief, he called this area \"Tenakomakah\" (\"densely inhabited Land\"). The empire was advantageous to some tribes, who were periodically threatened by other groups, such as the Monacan. The first English colony, Jamestown, was allegedly allowed to be settled by Chief Powhatan as he wanted new military and economic advantages over the Siouans west of his people. The following chief, Opechancanough, succeeded him within only a couple of years after contact and had a much different view of the English. He led several failed uprisings, which caused his people to fracture, some tribes going south to live among the Chowanoke or north to live among the Piscataway. After that, one of his sons took several Powhatans and moved off to the northwest, becoming the Shawnee and took over former Susquehannock territories. Recorded in the states of Maryland and Pennsylvania throughout the 17th century, they eventually made their way into the Ohio River Valley, where they are believed to have merged with a variety of other native peoples to form the powerful confederacy that controlled the area that is now West Virginia until the Shawnee Wars (1811-1813). By only 1646, very few Powhatans remained and were policed harshly by the English, no longer even allowed to choose their own leaders. They were organized into the Pamunkey and Mattaponi tribes. They eventually dissolved altogether and merged into Colonial society.\n\nThe Piscataway were pushed north on the Potomac River early in their history, coming to be cut off from the rest of their people. While some stayed, others chose to migrate west. Their movements are generally unrecorded in the historical record, but they reappear at Fort Detroit in modern-day Michigan by the end of the 18th century. These Piscataways are said to have moved to Canada and probably merged with the Mississaugas, who had broken away from the Anishinaabeg and migrated southeast into that same region. Despite that, many Piscataway stayed in Virginia and Maryland until the modern day. Other members of the Piscataway also merged with the Nanticoke.\n\nThe Nanticoke seem to have been largely confined to Indian Towns, but were later relocated to New York in 1778. Afterward, they dissolved, with groups joining the Iroquois and Lenape.\n\nThe Chowanoke were moved to reservation lands by the English in 1677, where they remained until the 19th century. By 1821, they had merged with other tribes and were generally dissolved, however the descendants of these peoples reformed in the 21st century and re-acquired much of their old reservation in 2014.\n\nMany of the Siouan peoples of the state seem to have originally been a collection of smaller tribes with uncertain affiliation. Names recorded throughout the 17th century were the Monahassanough, Rassawek, Mowhemencho, Monassukapanough, Massinacack, Akenatsi, Mahoc, Nuntaneuck, Nutaly, Nahyssan, Sapon, Monakin, Toteros, Keyauwees, Shakori, Eno, Sissipahaw, Monetons and Mohetons living and migrating throughout what is now West Virginia, Virginia, North Carolina and South Carolina. All were said to have spoken, at least two distinct languages—Saponi (which appears to be a missing link language existing between the Chiwere and Dhegihan variants) and Catawba (which is most closely related to Biloxi and the Gulf Coast Siouan languages). John Smith was the first to note two groups in the Virginian interior—the Monaghans and the Monahoacs. The words came from the Powhatan and translations are uncertain, however Monaghan seems similar to a known Lenape word, \"Monaquen,\" which means \"to scalp.\" They were also commonly referred to as the Eastern Blackfoot, which explains why some Saponi today identify as the Siouan-Blackfoot people, and later still as the Christannas.\n\nAs far as can be assumed, however, it seems that they were arranged thus—from east to west along the north shore of the James River, just inland of the Powhatan, would have been the Eno, Shakori and Saponi. Around the source of the river (and probably holding some of the river's islands a ways back east) should have been the Occaneechi, or Akenatsi. They were believed to have been the \"grandfather\" tribe of the region, a term among native peoples for any tribe highly respected and venerated for being the first or oldest people of their kind. West of the Occaneechi and primarily located in what is now West Virginia were, at least, two more tribes believed to have been related—the Moneton of the Kanawha River and the Tutelo of the Bluestone River, which separates West Virginia from Kentucky. About midway along the southern shores of the James River should have been the Sissipahaw. They were probably the only Eastern Siouan tribe in the state who would have spoken a form of Catawba language, rather than Saponi/ Tutelo. North of them were the Manahoac, or Mahock. The Keyauwee are also of note. It is difficult to say whether they were a subtribe of others mentioned, a newly formed tribe, or from somewhere else.\n\nOriginally existing along the entirety of the current western border of Virginia and up through some of the southwestern mountains of West Virginia and Kentucky, they seem to have first been driven east by the Iroquoian Westo during the Beaver Wars. Historians have since come to note that the Westo were almost definitely the Erie and Neutrals/ Chonnonton, who had conquered wide swathes of what is now northern and eastern Ohio approximately during the 1630s and were subsequently conquered and driven out by the Iroquois Confederacy around 1650. The Tutelo of West Virginia first seem to be noted as living north of the Saponi, in northern Virginia in around 1670. Later in the Beaver Wars, the Iroquois lost their new lands in Ohio and Michigan to the French and their new native allies around the western Great Lakes. Sometime during the 1680s-90s, the Iroquois started pushing south and declared war on the Saponi related tribes, pushing them down into North Carolina. It is noted in 1701 that the Saponi, Tutelo, Occaneechi, Shakori and Keyauwee were then going to form a confederacy to take back their homeland. The writer assumes that all five tribes were driven south, but the Tutelos are noted as allies from the \"western mountains.\" This is the same year that the Iroquois surrendered to the French, but it appears that hostilities with the Saponi continued long term. The Iroquois were soon after convinced by the English to start selling off all their extended lands, which were nearly impossible for them to hold. All they kept was a string of territory along the Susquahanna River in Pennsylvania.\n\nThe Saponi attempted to return to their lands, but were unable to do so. Around 1702, the Governor of the Virginia Colony gave them reservation land and opened Fort Christanna nearby. All the tribes appear to have returned, except the Keyauwee, who remained among the Catawba. They came to be known as the Christanna People at this time. This fort offered economic and educational aid to the locals, but after the fort closed in 1718, the Saponi dispersed. With continued conflicts between the Saponi and Iroquios in the region, the governors of Virginia, Pennsylvania and New York joined to organize a peace treaty, which did ultimately end the conflict. Some time around 1722, the Tutelo and some other Saponis migrated to the Iroquoian-held Pennsylvania territory and settled there, among many other refugees of local tribes who had been destroyed, absorbed into Colonial society, or simply moved on without them. In 1753, the Iroquois reorganized them all into Tutelo, Delaware and Nanticoke Tribes, relocated them to New York and gave them full honors among the Confederacy, despite none of them being Iroquoian. After the American Revolution, these tribes accompanied them to Canada. Later, the descendants of the Tutelos migrated again to Ohio, becoming the Saponi and Tutelo Tribes of Ohio. Many of the other Siouan peoples of Virginia were also noted to have merged with the Catawba and Yamasee tribes.\n\nWhile mainly noted in Virginia, it appears that the Tuscarora migrated into the region from the Delmarva Peninsula early in the 17th century. John Smith noted them on an early map as the Kuskarawocks. (They may have also absorbed the Tockwoghs, who also appear on the map and were most likely Iroquoian.) After an extended war with the English, the Tuscarora began leaving for New York and began merging with the Iroquois in groups around 1720, continuing approximately until the Iroquois were banished to Canada following the American Revolution. Those who remained became a new tribe—the Coharie—and migrated south to live near the Meherrin.\n\nThe Meherrin aided the Tuscarora in that war, but did not follow them north. In 1717, the English gave them a reservation just south of the North Carolina border. The North Carolina government contested their land rights and tried to take them away due to a surveyor's error that caused both Native and English settlers to claim parts of the reservation. However, they managed to, more or less, stay put well into the modern day. The Nottoway also managed to largely stay in the vicinity of Virginia until the modern day without much conflict or loss of heritage.\n\nAlthough the Beaver Wars were primarily centered in Ohio, the Iroquois Confederacy of New York were also in a long strung conflict with the Susquehannocks of central Pennsylvania, as was the English colony of Maryland, although the two were not known to be allies themselves. Sometime around the 1650s or 1660s, Maryland made peace with and allied themselves to the Susquehannocks, thus the Iroquois labelled them an enemy as well, despite being allied with England by this time. After ending their war with the Susquehannocks in 1674, however, the Iroquois went on a more or less inexplicable rampage against Maryland and its remaining Native allies, which included the Piscataways and the Eastern Siouans tribes. The Eastern Siouans were forced out of the state during the 1680s. After the Beaver Wars officially ended in 1701, the Iroquois sold off their extended holdings—including their land in Virginia—to the English.\n\nIn the mid 17th century, around 1655-6, an Iroquoian group known as the Westo invaded Virginia. While many theories abound as to their origins, they appear to have been the last of the Eries and Chonnontons who invaded Ohio at the start of the Beaver Wars. The Westo seem to have pushed into southern West Virginia, then moved straight south to move on the smaller Siouan tribes of the Carolinas. In the 1680s, they were destroyed by a coalition of native warriors led by a tribe called the Sawanno. There is also a note from the Cherokee that a group of \"Shawnee\" were living among them in the 1660s (following the Westo invasion, but prior to their defeat), then migrated into southern West Virginia.\n\nThe first Spanish and English explorers appear to have greatly overestimated the size of the Cherokee, placing them as far north as Virginia. However, many historians now believe that there was a large, mixed race/ mixed language confederacy in the region, called the Coosa. The Spanish also gave them the nicknames Chalaques and Uchis during the 16th century and the English turned Chalaques into Cherokees. The Cherokees we know today were among these people, but lived much further south and both the Cherokee language (of Iroquoian origin) and the Yuchi language (Muskogean) have been heavily modified by Siouan influence and carry many Siouan borrow words. This nation would have existed throughout parts of the states of Virginia, Kentucky, Tennessee, North and South Carolina and Georgia, with cores of different culture groups organized at different extremes of the territory and, probably, speaking Yuchi as a common tongue.\n\nAfter the Westo punched straight through them, they seem to have split along the line of the Tennessee River to create the Cherokee to the south and the Yuchi to the north. Then, following the Yamasee War (1715–1717), the Yuchi were force across Appalachia and split again, into the Coyaha and the Chisca. The French, seeing an opportunity for new allies, ingratiated themselves with the Chisca and had them relocated to the heart of the Illinois Colony to live among the Algonquian Ilinoweg. Later, as French influence along the Ohio River waned, the tribe seems to have split away again, taking many Ilinoweg tribes with them, and moved back to Kentucky, where they became the Kispoko. The Kispoko later became the fourth tribe of Shawnee.\n\nMeanwhile, the Coyaha reforged their alliance with the Cherokee and brought in many of the smaller Muskogean tribes of Alabama (often referred to as the Mobilians) to form the Creek Confederacy. While this tribe would go on to have great historical influence to the remaining Colonial Era and the early history of the United States, they never returned to Virginia.\n\nFurthermore, alike the Sawannos, it seems many splinter groups fractured off from the core group and moved into places like West Virginia and Kentucky. Afterwards, those lands seemed to be filled with native peoples who claimed \"Cherokee\" ancestry, yet had no organized tribal affiliation. The descendants of those people live throughout West Virginia, Pennsylvania, Kentucky and Ohio today. However, it also seems probable that these populations married into the surviving Monongahela and other Siouan groups, yet the populations must have been quite small on both sides to allow that these peoples never reformed a government and remained nomadic for a great deal of time afterwards.\n\nAfter their discovery of the New World in the 15th century, European states began trying to establish New World colonies. England, the Dutch Republic, France, Portugal, and Spain were the most active.\n\nIn 1540, a party led by two Spaniards, Juan de Villalobos and Francisco de Silvera, sent by Hernando de Soto, entered what is now Lee County in search of gold. In the spring of 1567, Hernando Moyano de Morales, a sergeant of Spanish explorer Juan Pardo, led a group of soldiers northward from Fort San Juan in Joara, a native town in what is now western North Carolina, to attack and destroy the Chisca village of \"Maniatique\" near present-day Saltville. The attack near Saltville was the first recorded battle in Virginia history.\n\nAnother Spanish party, captained by Antonio Velázquez in the caravel \"Santa Catalina\", explored to the lower Chesapeake Bay region of Virginia in mid-1561 under the orders of Ángel de Villafañe. During this voyage, two Kiskiack or Paspahegh youths, including Don Luis were taken back to Spain. In 1566, an expedition sent from Spanish Florida by Pedro Menéndez de Avilés reached the Delmarva Peninsula. The expedition consisted of two Dominican friars, thirty soldiers and Don Luis, in a failed effort to set up a Spanish colony in the Chesapeake, believing it to be an opening to the fabled Northwest Passage.\n\nIn 1570, Spanish Jesuits established the Ajacán Mission on the lower peninsula. However, in 1571 it was destroyed by Don Luis and a party of his indigenous allies. In August 1572, Pedro Menéndez de Avilés arrived from St. Augustine with thirty soldiers and sailors to take revenge for the massacre of the Jesuits, and hanged approximately 20 natives. In 1573, the governor of Spanish Florida, Pedro Menéndez de Márquez, conducted further exploration of the Chesapeake. In the 1580s, captain Vicente González led several voyages into the Chesapeake in search of English settlements in the area. In 1609, Spanish Florida governor Pedro de Ibarra sent Francisco Fernández de Écija from St. Augustine to survey the activities of the Jamestown colonists, yet Spain never attempted a colony after the failure of the Ajacán Mission.\n\nThe Roanoke Colony was the first English colony in the New World. It was founded at Roanoke Island in what was then Virginia, now part of Dare County, North Carolina. Between 1584 and 1587, there were two major groups of settlers sponsored by Sir Walter Raleigh who attempted to establish a permanent settlement at Roanoke Island, and each failed. The final group disappeared completely after supplies from England were delayed three years by a war with Spain. Because they disappeared, they were called \"The Lost Colony.\"\n\nThe name Virginia came from information gathered by the Raleigh-sponsored English explorations along what is now the North Carolina coast. Philip Amadas and Arthur Barlowe reported that a regional \"king\" named Wingina ruled a land of \"Wingandacoa\". Queen Elizabeth modified the name to \"Virginia\", perhaps in part noting her status as the \"Virgin Queen.\" Although the word is latinate, it stands as the oldest English language place-name in the United States.\n\nOn the second voyage, Raleigh learned that, while the chief of the Secotans was indeed called \"Wingina\", the expression \"wingandacoa\", heard by the English upon arrival, actually meant \"You wear good clothes\" in Carolina Algonquian, and was not the native name of the country, as previously misunderstood.\n\nAfter the death of Queen Elizabeth I, in 1603 King James I assumed the throne of England. After years of war, England was strapped for funds, so he granted responsibility for England's New World colonization to the Virginia Company, which became incorporated as a joint stock company by a proprietary charter drawn up in 1606. There were two competing branches of the Virginia Company and each hoped to establish a colony in Virginia in order to exploit gold (which the region did not actually have), to establish a base of support for English privateering against Spanish ships, and to spread Protestantism to the New World in competition with Spain's spread of Catholicism. Within the Virginia Company, the Plymouth Company branch was assigned a northern portion of the area known as Virginia, and the London Company area to the south.\n\nIn December 1606, the London Company dispatched a group of 104 colonists in three ships: the \"Susan Constant\", \"Godspeed\", and \"Discovery\", under the command of Captain Christopher Newport. After a long, rough voyage of 144 days, the colonists finally arrived in Virginia on April 26, 1607 at the entrance to the Chesapeake Bay. At Cape Henry, they went ashore, erected a cross, and did a small amount of exploring, an event which came to be called the \"First Landing.\"\n\nUnder orders from London to seek a more inland location safe from Spanish raids, they explored the Hampton Roads area and sailed up the newly christened James River to the Fall Line at what would later become the cities of Richmond and Manchester.\n\nAfter weeks of exploration, the colonists selected a location and founded Jamestown on May 14, 1607. It was named in honor of King James I (as was the river). However, while the location at Jamestown Island was favorable for defense against foreign ships, the low and marshy terrain was harsh and inhospitable for a settlement. It lacked drinking water, access to game for hunting, or much space for farming. While it seemed favorable that it was not inhabited by the Native Americans, within a short time, the colonists were attacked by members of the local Paspahegh tribe.\nThe colonists arrived ill-prepared to become self-sufficient. They had planned on trading with the Native Americans for food, were dependent upon periodic supplies from England, and had planned to spend some of their time seeking gold. Leaving the \"Discovery\" behind for their use, Captain Newport returned to England with the \"Susan Constant\" and the \"Godspeed\", and came back twice during 1608 with the First Supply and Second Supply missions. Trading and relations with the Native Americans was tenuous at best, and many of the colonists died from disease, starvation, and conflicts with the natives. After several failed leaders, Captain John Smith took charge of the settlement, and many credit him with sustaining the colony during its first years, as he had some success in trading for food and leading the discouraged colonists.\n\nAfter Smith's return to England in August 1609, there was a long delay in the scheduled arrival of supplies. During the winter of 1609/10 and continuing into the spring and early summer, no more ships arrived. The colonists faced what became known as the \"starving time\". When the new governor Sir Thomas Gates, finally arrived at Jamestown on May 23, 1610, along with other survivors of the wreck of the Sea Venture that resulted in Bermuda being added to the territory of Virginia, he discovered over 80% of the 500 colonists had died; many of the survivors were sick.\n\nBack in England, the Virginia Company was reorganized under its Second Charter, ratified on May 23, 1609, which gave most leadership authority of the colony to the governor, the newly appointed Thomas West, 3rd Baron De La Warr. In June 1610, he arrived with 150 men and ample supplies. De La Warr began the First Anglo-Powhatan War, against the natives. Under his leadership, Samuel Argall kidnapped Pocahontas, daughter of the Powhatan chief, and held her at Henricus.\n\nThe economy of the Colony was another problem. Gold had never been found, and efforts to introduce profitable industries in the colony had all failed until John Rolfe introduced his two foreign types of tobacco: Orinoco and Sweet Scented. These produced a better crop than the local variety and with the first shipment to England in 1612, the customers enjoyed the flavor, thus making tobacco a cash crop that established Virginia's economic viability.\n\nThe First Anglo-Powhatan War ended when Rolfe married Pocahontas in 1614.\n\nGeorge Yeardley took over as Governor of Virginia in 1619. He ended one-man rule and created a representative system of government with the General Assembly, the first elected legislative assembly in the New World.\n\nAlso in 1619, the Virginia Company sent 90 single women as potential wives for the male colonists to help populate the settlement. That same year the colony acquired a group of \"twenty and odd\" Angolans, brought by two English privateers. They were probably the first Africans in the colony. They, along with many European indentured servants helped to expand the growing tobacco industry which was already the colony's primary product. Although these black men were treated as indentured servants, this marked the beginning of America's history of slavery. Major importation of enslaved Africans by European slave traders did not take place until much later in the century.\n\nIn some areas, individual rather than communal land ownership or leaseholds were established, providing families with motivation to increase production, improve standards of living, and gain wealth. Perhaps nowhere was this more progressive than at Sir Thomas Dale's ill-fated Henricus, a westerly-lying development located along the south bank of the James River, where natives were also to be provided an education at the Colony's first college.\n\nAbout south of the falls at present-day Richmond, in Henrico Cittie, the Falling Creek Ironworks was established near the confluence of Falling Creek, using local ore deposits to make iron. It was the first in North America.\n\nVirginians were intensely individualistic at this point, weakening the small new communities. According to Breen (1979) their horizon was limited by the present or near future. They believed that the environment could and should be forced to yield quick financial returns. Thus everyone was looking out for number one at the expense of the cooperative ventures. Farms were scattered and few villages or towns were formed. This extreme individualism led to the failure of the settlers to provide defense for themselves against the Indians, resulting in two massacres.\n\nEnglish settlers soon came into conflict with the natives. Despite some successful interaction, issues of ownership and control of land and other resources, and trust between the peoples, became areas of conflict. Virginia has drought conditions an average of every three years. The colonists did not understand that the natives were ill-prepared to feed them during hard times. In the years after 1612, the colonists cleared land to farm export tobacco, their crucial cash crop. As tobacco exhausted the soil, the settlers continually needed to clear more land for replacement. This reduced the wooded land which Native Americans depended on for hunting to supplement their food crops. As more colonists arrived, they wanted more land.\n\nThe tribes tried to fight the encroachment by the colonists. Major conflicts took place in the Indian massacre of 1622 and the Second Anglo-Powhatan war, both under the leadership of the late Chief Powhatan's younger brother, Chief \"Opechancanough\". By the mid-17th century, the Powhatan and allied tribes were in serious decline in population, due in large part to epidemics of newly introduced infectious diseases, such as smallpox and measles, to which they had no natural immunity. The European colonists had expanded territory so that they controlled virtually all the land east of the fall line on the James River. Fifty years earlier, this territory had been the empire of the mighty Powhatan Confederacy.\n\nSurviving members of many tribes assimilated into the general population of the colony. Some retained small communities with more traditional identity and heritage. In the 21st century, the Pamunkey and Mattaponi are the only two tribes to maintain reservations originally assigned under the English. , the state has recognized eleven Virginia Indian tribes. Others have renewed interest in seeking state and Federal recognition since the celebration of the 400th anniversary of Jamestown in 2007. State celebrations gave Native American tribes prominent formal roles to showcase their contributions to the state.\n\nWhile the developments of 1619 and continued growth in the several following years were seen as favorable by the English, many aspects, especially the continued need for more land to grow tobacco, were the source of increasing concern to the Native Americans most affected, the Powhatan.\n\nBy this time, the remaining Powhatan Empire was led by Chief Opechancanough, chief of the Pamunkey, and brother of Chief Powhatan. He had earned a reputation as a fierce warrior under his brother's chiefdom. Soon, he gave up on hopes of diplomacy, and resolved to eradicate the English colonists.\n\nOn March 22, 1622, the Powhatan killed about 400 colonists in the Indian Massacre of 1622. With coordinated attacks, they struck almost all the English settlements along the James River, on both shores, from Newport News Point on the east at Hampton Roads all the way west upriver to Falling Creek, a few miles above Henricus and John Rolfe's plantation, Varina Farms.\n\nAt Jamestown, a warning by an Indian boy named Chanco to his employer, Richard Pace, helped reduce total deaths. Pace secured his plantation, and rowed across the river during the night to alert Jamestown, which allowed colonists some defensive preparation. They had no time to warn outposts, which suffered deaths and captives at almost every location. Several entire communities were essentially wiped out, including Henricus and Wolstenholme Towne at Martin's Hundred. At the Falling Creek Ironworks, which had been seen as promising for the Colony, two women and three children were among the 27 killed, leaving only two colonists alive. The facilities were destroyed.\n\nDespite the losses, two thirds of the colonists survived; after withdrawing to Jamestown, many returned to the outlying plantations, although some were abandoned. The English carried out reprisals against the Powhatan and there were skirmishes and attacks for about a year before the colonists and Powhatan struck a truce.\n\nThe colonists invited the chiefs and warriors to Jamestown, where they proposed a toast of liquor. Dr. John Potts and some of the Jamestown leadership had poisoned the natives' share of the liquor, which killed about 200 men. Colonists killed another 50 Indians by hand.\n\nThe period between the coup of 1622 and another Powhatan attack on English colonists along the James River (see ) in 1644 marked a turning point in the relations between the Powhatan and the English. In the early period, each side believed it was operating from a position of power; by the Treaty of 1646, the colonists had taken the balance of power, and had established control between the York and Blackwater Rivers.\n\nIn 1624, the Virginia Company's charter was revoked and the colony transferred to royal authority as a crown colony, but the elected representatives in Jamestown continued to exercise a fair amount of power. Under royal authority, the colony began to expand to the North and West with additional settlements.\n\nIn 1634, a new system of local government was created in the Virginia Colony by order of the King of England. Eight shires were designated, each with its own local officers; these shires were renamed as counties only a few years later.\n\nThe first significant attempts at exploring the Trans-Allegheny region occurred under the administration of Governor William Berkeley. Efforts to explore farther into Virginia were hampered in 1644 when about 500 colonists were killed in another Indian massacre led, once again, by Opechancanough. Berkeley is credited with efforts to develop others sources of income for the colony besides tobacco such as cultivation of mulberry trees for silkworms and other crops at his large Green Spring Plantation.\n\nThe colonists defined the 1644 coup as an \"uprising\". Chief Opechancanough expected the outcome would reflect what he considered the morally correct position: that the colonists were violating their pledges to the Powhatan. During the 1644 event, Chief Opechancanough was captured. While imprisoned, he was murdered by one of his guards. After the death of Opechancanough, and following the repeated colonial attacks in 1644 and 1645, the remaining Powhatan tribes had little alternative but to accede to the demands of the settlers.\n\nMost Virginia colonists were loyal to the crown (Charles I) during the English Civil War, but in 1652, Oliver Cromwell sent a force to remove and replace Gov. Berkeley with Governor Richard Bennett, who was loyal to the Commonwealth of England. This governor was a moderate Puritan who allowed the local legislature to exercise most controlling authority, and spent much of his time directing affairs in neighboring Maryland Colony. Bennett was followed by two more \"Cromwellian\" governors, Edward Digges and Samuel Matthews, although in fact all three of these men were not technically appointees, but were selected by the House of Burgesses, which was really in control of the colony during these years.\n\nMany royalists fled to Virginia after their defeat in the English Civil War. Some intermarried with existing plantation families to establish influential families in Virginia such as the Washingtons, Randolphs, Carters and Lees. However, most 17th-century immigrants were indentured servants, merchants or artisans. After the Restoration, in recognition of Virginia's loyalty to the crown, King Charles II of England bestowed Virginia with the nickname \"The Old Dominion\", which it still bears today.\n\nGovernor Berkeley, who remained popular after his first administration, returned to the governorship at the end of Commonwealth rule. However, Berkeley's second administration was characterized with many problems. Disease, hurricanes, Indian hostilities, and economic difficulties all plagued Virginia at this time. Berkeley established autocratic authority over the colony. To protect this power, he refused to have new legislative elections for 14 years in order to protect a House of Burgesses that supported him. He only agreed to new elections when rebellion became a serious threat.\n\nBerkeley finally did face a rebellion in 1676. Indians had begun attacking encroaching settlers as they expanded to the north and west. Serious fighting broke out when settlers responded to violence with a counter-attack against the wrong tribe, which further extended the violence. Berkeley did not assist the settlers in their fight. Many settlers and historians believe Berkeley's refusal to fight the Indians stemmed from his investments in the fur trade. Large scale fighting would have cut off the Indian suppliers Berkeley's investment relied on. Nathaniel Bacon organized his own militia of settlers who retaliated against the Indians. Bacon became very popular as the primary opponent of Berkeley, not only on the issue of Indians, but on other issues as well. Berkeley condemned Bacon as a rebel, but pardoned him after Bacon won a seat in the House of Burgesses and accepted it peacefully. After a lack of reform, Bacon rebelled outright, captured Jamestown, and took control of the colony for several months. The incident became known as Bacon's Rebellion. Berkeley returned himself to power with the help of the English militia. Bacon burned Jamestown before abandoning it and continued his rebellion, but died of disease. Berkeley severely crushed the remaining rebels.\n\nIn response to Berkeley's harsh repression of the rebels, the English government removed him from office. After the burning of Jamestown, the capital was temporarily moved to Middle Plantation, located on the high ground of the Virginia Peninsula equidistant from the James and York Rivers.\n\nLocal leaders had long desired a school of higher education, for the sons of planters, and for educating the Indians. An earlier attempt to establish a permanent university at Henricus failed after the Indian Massacre of 1622 wiped out the entire settlement. Finally, seven decades later, with encouragement from the Colony's House of Burgesses and other prominent individuals, Reverend Dr. James Blair, the colony's top religious leader, prepared a plan. Blair went to England and in 1693, obtained a charter from Protestants King William and Queen Mary II of England who had just deposed Catholic James II of England in 1688 during the Glorious Revolution. The college was named the College of William and Mary in honor of the two monarchs.\n\nThe rebuilt statehouse in Jamestown burned again in 1698. After that fire, upon suggestion of college students, the colonial capital was permanently moved to nearby Middle Plantation again, and the town was renamed Williamsburg, in honor of the king. Plans were made to construct a capitol building and plan the new city according to the survey of Theodorick Bland.\n\nAs the English increasingly used tobacco products, tobacco in the American colonies became a significant economic force, especially in the tidewater region surrounding the Chesapeake Bay. Vast plantations were built along the rivers of Virginia, and social/economic systems developed to grow and distribute this cash crop. Some elements of this system included the importation and employment of slaves to grow crops. Planters would then fill large hogsheads with tobacco and convey them to inspection warehouses. In 1730, the Virginia House of Burgesses standardized and improved quality of tobacco exported by establishing the Tobacco Inspection Act of 1730, which required inspectors to grade tobacco at 40 specified locations.\n\nIn terms of the white population, the top five percent or so were planters who possessed growing wealth and increasing political power and social prestige. They controlled the local Anglican church, choosing ministers and handling church property and disbursing local charity. They sought elected and appointed offices. About 60 percent of white Virginians were part of a broad middle class that owned substantial farms; By the second generation, death rates from malaria and other local diseases had declined so much that a stable family structure was possible. The bottom third owned no land, and verged on poverty. Many were recent arrivals, or recently released from indentured servitude. Social stratification was most severe in the Northern Neck, where the Fairfax family had been given a proprietorship. In some districts there 70 percent of the land was owned by a handful of families, and three-fourths of the whites had no land at all. In the frontier districts, large numbers of Irish and German Protestants had settled, often moving down from Pennsylvania. Tobacco was not important there; farmers focused on hemp, grain, cattle, and horses. Entrepreneurs had begun to mine and smelt the local iron ores.\n\nSports occupied a great deal of attention at every social level, starting at the top. In England hunting was sharply restricted to landowners, and enforced by armed gameskeepers. In America, game was more than plentiful. Everyone—including servants and slaves—could and did hunt. Poor men with a good rifle aim won praise; rich gentlemen who were off target won ridicule. In 1691, Sir Francis Nicholson, the governor, organized competitions for the \"better sort of Virginians onely who are Batchelors,\" and he offered prizes \"to be shot for, wrastled, played at backswords, & Run for by Horse and foott.\" Horse racing was the main event. The typical farmer did not own a horse in the first place, and racing was a matter for gentlemen only, but ordinary farmers were spectators and gamblers. Selected slaves often became skilled horse trainers. Horse racing was especially important for knitting the gentry together. The race was a major public event designed to demonstrate to the world the superior social status of the gentry through expensive breeding, training, boasting and gambling, and especially winning the races themselves. Historian Timothy Breen explains that horse racing and high-stakes gambling were essential to maintaining the status of the gentry. When they publicly bet a large sum on their favorite horse, it told the world that competitiveness, individualism, and materialism where the core elements of gentry values.\n\nHistorian Edmund Morgan (1975) argues that Virginians in the 1650s—and for the next two centuries—turned to slavery and a racial divide as an alternative to class conflict. \"Racism made it possible for white Virginians to develop a devotion to the equality that English republicans had declared to be the soul of liberty.\" That is, white men became politically much more equal than was possible without a population of low-status slaves.\n\nBy 1700, the population reached 70,000 and continued to grow rapidly from a high birth rate, low death rate, importation of slaves from the Caribbean, and immigration from Britain and Germany, as well as from Pennsylvania. The climate was mild, the farm lands were cheap and fertile.\n\nIn 1716, Governor Alexander Spotswood led the Knights of the Golden Horseshoe Expedition, reaching the top ridge of the Blue Ridge Mountains at Swift Run Gap (elevation ). Spotswood promoted Germanna, a settlement of German immigrants brought over for the purpose of iron production, in modern-day Orange County.\n\nBy the 1730s, the Three Notch'd Road extended from the vicinity of the fall line of the James River at the future site of Richmond westerly to the Shenandoah Valley, crossing the Blue Ridge Mountains at Jarmans Gap. Around this time, Governor William Gooch promoted settlement of the Virginia backcountry as a means to insulate the Virginia colony from Native American and New France settlements in the Ohio Country In response, a wide variety of settlers traveled southward on the Indian Trail later known as the Great Wagon Road along the Shenandoah Valley from Pennsylvania. Many, including German Palatines and Scotch-Irish American immigrants, settled along former Indian camps. According to Encyclopedia Virginia, \"By 1735 there were as many as 160 families in the backcountry region, and within ten years nearly 10,000 Europeans lived in the Shenandoah Valley.\"\nAs colonial settlement moved into the piedmont area from the Tidewater/Chesapeake area, There was some uncertainty as to the exact tax boundaries of Virginia land versus the Land patent quit-rent rights held by Thomas Fairfax, 6th Lord Fairfax of Cameron in the Northern Neck Proprietary. When Robert \"King\" Carter died in 1732, Lord Fairfax read about his vast wealth in The Gentleman's Magazine and decided to settle the matter himself by coming to Virginia. Lord Fairfax travelled to Virginia for the first time between 1735 and 1737 to inspect and protect his lands. He employed a young George Washington (Washington's first employment) to survey his lands lying west of the Blue Ridge. Once this legal battle was ironed out, Frederick County, Virginia was founded in 1743 and the \"Frederick Town\" settlements there became a fourth city charter in Virginia, now known as Winchester, Virginia in February 1752.\nIn the late 1740s and the second half of the 18th century, the British angled for control of the Ohio Country. Virginians Thomas Lee and brothers Lawrence and Augustine Washington organized the Ohio Company to represent the prospecting and trading interests of Virginian investors. In 1749, the British Crown, via the colonial government of Virginia, granted the Ohio Company a great deal of this territory on the condition that it be settled by British colonists. Governor Robert Dinwiddie of Virginia was an investor in the Ohio Company, which stood to lose money if the French held their claim. To counter the French military presence in Ohio, in October 1753 Dinwiddie ordered the 21-year-old Major George Washington (whose brother was another Ohio Company investor) of the Virginia Regiment to warn the French to leave Virginia territory. Ultimately, many Virginians were caught up in the resulting French and Indian War that occurred 1754–1763. At the completion of the war, the Royal Proclamation of 1763 forbade all British settlement past a line drawn along the Appalachian Mountains, with the land west of the Proclamation Line known as the Indian Reserve. British colonists and land speculators objected to the proclamation boundary since the British government had already assigned land grants to them. Many settlements already existed beyond the proclamation line, some of which had been temporarily evacuated during Pontiac's War, and there were many already granted land claims yet to be settled. For example, George Washington and his Virginia soldiers had been granted lands past the boundary. Prominent American colonials joined with the land speculators in Britain to lobby the government to move the line further west. Their efforts were successful, and the boundary line was adjusted in a series of treaties with the Native Americans. In 1768, the Treaty of Fort Stanwix and the Treaty of Hard Labour, followed in 1770 by the Treaty of Lochaber, opened much of what is now Kentucky and West Virginia to British settlement within the Virginia Colony. However, the Northwest Territories north of the Ohio continued to be occupied by native tribes until US forces drove them out in the early decades of the 1800s.\n\nThe Church of England was legally established in the colony in 1619, and the Bishop of London sent in 22 Anglican clergyman by 1624. In practice, establishment meant that local taxes were funneled through the local parish to handle the needs of local government, such as roads and poor relief, in addition to the salary of the minister. There never was a bishop in colonial Virginia, and in practice the local vestry, consisting of gentry laymen controlled the parish. By the 1740s, the Anglicans had about 70 parish priests around the colony.\n\nMissionaries were sent to the Indians but they had little success apart from the Nansemond tribe, which had converted in 1638. The other Powhatan tribes converted to Christianity around 1791.\n\nThe stress on personal piety opened the way for the First Great Awakening in the mid 18th century, which pulled people away from the formal rituals of the established church. Especially in the back country, most families had no religious affiliation whatsoever and their low moral standards were shocking to proper Englishmen. The Baptists, Methodists, Presbyterians and other evangelicals directly challenged these lax moral standards and refused to tolerate them in their ranks. Baptists, German Lutherans and Presbyterians, funded their own ministers, and favored disestablishment of the Anglican church.\n\nThe spellbinding preacher Samuel Davies led the Presbyterians, and converted hundreds of slaves. By the 1760s Baptists were drawing Virginians, especially poor white farmers, into a new, much more democratic religion. Slaves were welcome at the services and many became Baptists at this time. Methodist missionaries were also active in the late colonial period. Methodists encouraged an end to slavery, and welcomed free blacks and slaves into active roles in the congregations.\n\nThe Baptists and Presbyterians were subject to many legal constraints and faced growing persecution; between 1768 and 1774, about half of the Baptists ministers in Virginia were jailed for preaching, in defiance of England's Act of Toleration of 1689 that guaranteed freedom of worship for Protestants. At the start of the Revolution, the Anglican Patriots realized that they needed dissenter support for effective wartime mobilization, so they met most of the dissenters' demands in return for their support of the war effort.\n\nHistorians have debated the implications of the religious rivalries for the American Revolution. The struggle for religious toleration was played out during the American Revolution, as the Baptists, in alliance with Thomas Jefferson and James Madison, worked successfully to disestablish the Anglican church. After the American victory in the war, the Anglican establishment sought to reintroduce state support for religion. This effort failed when non-Anglicans gave their support to Jefferson's \"Bill for Establishing Religious Freedom\", which eventually became law in 1786 as the Virginia Statute for Religious Freedom. With freedom of religion the new watchword, the Church of England was dis-established in Virginia. It was rebuilt as the Episcopal Church in the United States, with no connection to Britain.\n\nRevolutionary sentiments first began appearing in Virginia shortly after the French and Indian War ended in 1763. The Virginia legislature had passed the Two-Penny Act to stop clerical salaries from inflating. King George III vetoed the measure, and clergy sued for back salaries. Patrick Henry first came to prominence by arguing in the case of Parson's Cause against the veto, which he declared tyrannical.\n\nThe British government had accumulated a great deal of debt through spending on its wars. To help payoff this debt, Parliament passed the Sugar Act in 1764 and the Stamp Act in 1765. The General Assembly opposed the passage of the Sugar Act on the grounds of no taxation without representation, and in turn passing the \"Virginia Resolves\" opposing the tax. Governor Francis Fauquier responded by dismissing the Assembly. The Northampton County court overturned the Stamp Act February 8, 1766. Various political groups, including the Sons of Liberty met and issued protests against the act. Most notably, Richard Bland published a pamphlet entitled \"An Enquiry into the Rights of The British Colonies\", setting forth the principle that Virginia was a part of the British Empire, not the Kingdom of Great Britain, so it only owed allegiance to the Crown, not Parliament.\n\nThe Stamp Act was repealed, but additional taxation from the Revenue Act and the 1769 attempt to transport Bostonian rioters to London for trial incited more protest from Virginia. The Assembly met to consider resolutions condemning on the transport of the rioters, but Governor Botetourt, while sympathetic, dissolved the legislature. The Burgesses reconvened in Raleigh Tavern and made an agreement to ban British imports. Britain gave up the attempt to extradite the prisoners and lifted all taxes except the tax on tea in 1770.\n\nIn 1773, because of a renewed attempt to extradite Americans to Britain, Richard Henry Lee, Thomas Jefferson, Patrick Henry, George Mason, and others in the legislature created a committee of correspondence to deal with problems with Britain. This committee would serve as the foundation for Virginia's role in the American Revolution.\n\nAfter the House of Burgesses expressed solidarity with the actions in Massachusetts, the Governor, Lord Dunmore, again dissolved the legislature. The first Virginia Convention was held August 1–6 to respond to the growing crisis. The convention approved a boycott of British goods and elected delegates to the Continental Congress.\n\nOn April 20, 1775, Dunmore ordered the gunpowder removed from the Williamsburg Magazine to a British ship. Patrick Henry led a group of Virginia militia from Hanover in response to Dunmore's order. Carter Braxton negotiated a resolution to the Gunpowder Incident by transferring royal funds as payment for the powder. The incident exacerbated Dunmore's declining popularity. He fled the Governor's Palace to a British ship at Yorktown. On November 7, Dunmore issued a proclamation declaring Virginia was in a state of rebellion. By this time, George Washington had been appointed head of the American forces by the Continental Congress and Virginia was under the political leadership of a Committee of Safety formed by the Third Virginia Convention in the governor's absence.\n\nOn December 9, 1775, Virginia militia moved on the governor's forces at the Battle of Great Bridge, winning a victory in the small action there. Dunmore responded by bombarding Norfolk with his ships on January 1, 1776. After the Battle of Great Bridge, little military conflict took place on Virginia soil for the first part of the American Revolutionary War. Nevertheless, Virginia sent forces to help in the fighting to the North and South, as well as the frontier in the northwest.\n\nThe Fifth Virginia Convention met on May 6 and declared Virginia a free and independent state on May 15, 1776. The convention instructed its delegates to introduce a resolution for independence at the Continental Congress. Richard Henry Lee introduced the measure on June 7. While the Congress debated, the Virginia Convention adopted George Mason's Bill of Rights (June 12) and a constitution (June 29) which established an independent commonwealth. Congress approved Lee's proposal on July 2 and approved Jefferson's Declaration of Independence on July 4. The constitution of the Fifth Virginia Convention created a system of government for the state that would last for 54 years, and converting House of Burgesses into a bicameral legislature with both a House of Delegates and a Senate. Patrick Henry serves as the first Governor of the Commonwealth (1776-1779).\n\nThe British briefly brought the war back to coastal Virginia in May 1779. Fearing the vulnerability of Williamsburg, Governor Thomas Jefferson moved the capital farther inland to Richmond in 1780. However, in December, Benedict Arnold, who had betrayed the Revolution and become a general for the British, attacked Richmond and burned part of the city before the Virginia Militia drove his army out of the city.\n\nArnold moved his base of operations to Portsmouth and was later joined by troops under General William Phillips. Phillips led an expedition that destroyed military and economic targets, against ineffectual militia resistance. The state's defenses, led by General Baron von Steuben, put up resistance in the April 1781 Battle of Blandford, but were forced to retreat. The French General Lafayette and his forces arrived to help defend Virginia, and though outnumbered, engaged British forces under General Charles Cornwallis in a series of skirmishes to help reduce their effectiveness. Cornwallis dispatched two smaller missions under Colonel John Graves Simcoe and Colonel Banastre Tarleton to march on Charlottesville and capture Gov. Jefferson and the legislature, though was foiled when Jack Jouett rode to warn Virginia government.\n\nCornwallis moved down the Virginia Peninsula towards the Chesapeake Bay, where Clinton planned to extract part of the army for a siege of New York City. After surprising American forces at the Battle of Green Spring on July 6, 1781, Cornwallis received orders to move his troops to the port town of Yorktown and begin construction of fortifications and a naval yard, though when discovered American forces surrounded the town. Gen. Washington and his French ally Rochambeau moved their forces from New York to Virginia. The defeat of the Royal Navy by Admiral de Grasse at the Battle of the Virginia Capes ensured French dominance of the waters around Yorktown, thereby preventing Cornwallis from receiving troops or supplies and removing the possibility of evacuation. Following the two-week siege to Yorktown, Cornwallis decided to surrender. Papers for surrender were officially signed on October 19.\n\nAs a result of the defeat, the king lost control of Parliament and the new British government offered peace in April 1782. The Treaty of Paris of 1783 officially ended the war.\n\nVictory in the Revolution brought peace and prosperity to the new state, as export markets in Europe reopened for its tobacco.\n\nWhile the old local elites were content with the status quo, younger veterans of the war had developed a national identity. Led by George Washington and James Madison, Virginia played a major role in the Constitutional Convention of 1787 in Philadelphia. Madison proposed the Virginia Plan, which would give representation in Congress according to total population, including a proportion of slaves. Virginia was the most populous state, and it was allowed to count all of its white residents and 3/5 of the enslaved African Americans for its congressional representation and its electoral vote. (Only white men who owned a certain amount of property could vote.) Ratification was bitterly contested; the pro-Constitution forces prevailed only after promising to add a Bill of Rights. The Virginia Ratifying Convention approved the Constitution by a vote of 89–79 on June 25, 1788, making it the tenth state to enter the Union.\n\nMadison played a central role in the new Congress, while Washington was the unanimous choice as first president. He was followed by the Virginia Dynasty, including Thomas Jefferson, Madison, and James Monroe, giving the state four of the first five presidents.\n\nThe Revolution meant change and sometimes political freedom for enslaved African Americans, too. Tens of thousands of slaves from southern states, particularly in Georgia and South Carolina, escaped to British lines and freedom during the war. Thousands left with the British for resettlement in their colonies of Nova Scotia and Jamaica; others went to England; others disappeared into rural and frontier areas or the North.\n\nInspired by the Revolution and evangelical preachers, numerous slaveholders in the Chesapeake region manumitted some or all of their slaves, during their lifetimes or by will. From 1,800 persons in 1782, the total population of free blacks in Virginia increased to 12,766 (4.3 percent of blacks) in 1790, and to 30,570 in 1810; the percentage change was from free blacks' comprising less than one percent of the total black population in Virginia, to 7.2 percent by 1810, even as the overall population increased. One planter, Robert Carter III freed more than 450 slaves in his lifetime, more than any other planter. George Washington freed all of his slaves at his death.\n\nMany free blacks migrated from rural areas to towns such as Petersburg, Richmond, and Charlottesville for jobs and community; others migrated with their families to the frontier where social strictures were more relaxed. Among the oldest black Baptist congregations in the nation were two founded near Petersburg before the Revolution. Each congregation moved into the city and built churches by the early 19th century.\n\nTwice slave rebellions broke out in Virginia: Gabriel's Rebellion in 1800, and Nat Turner's Rebellion in 1831. White reaction was swift and harsh, and militias killed many innocent free blacks and black slaves as well as those directly involved in the rebellions. After the second rebellion, the legislature passed laws restricting the rights of free people of color: they were excluded from bearing arms, serving in the militia, gaining education, and assembling in groups. As bearing arms and serving in the militia were considered obligations of free citizens, free blacks came under severe constraints after Nat Turner's rebellion.\n\nAs the new nation of the United States of America experienced growing pains and began to speak of Manifest Destiny, Virginia, too, found its role in the young republic to be changing and challenging. For one, the vast lands of the Virginia Colony were subdivided into other US states and territories. In 1784, Virginia relinquished its claims to the Illinois County, Virginia, except for the Virginia Military District (Southern Indiana). In 1775, Daniel Boone blazed a trail for the Transylvania Company from Fort Chiswell in Virginia through the Cumberland Gap into central Kentucky. This Wilderness Road became the principal route used by settlers for more than fifty years to reach Kentucky from the East. The fledgling US government rewarded veterans of the Revolutionary War with plots of land along the Ohio River in the Northwest Territory. In 1792, three western counties split off to form Kentucky.\n\nA second influence: the lands seemed to be more fertile in the west. Virginia's heavy farming of tobacco for 200 years had depleted its soils.\n\nThe 1803 Louisiana Purchase only accelerated the westward movement of Virginians out of their native state. Many of the Virginians whose grandparents had created the Virginia Establishment began to emigrate and settle westward. Famous Virginian-born Americans affected not only the destiny of the state of Virginia, but the rapidly developing American Old West. Virginians Meriwether Lewis and William Clark were influential in their famous 1804-1806 expedition to explore the Missouri River and possible connections to the Pacific Ocean. Notable names such as Stephen F. Austin, Edwin Waller, Haden Harrison Edwards, and Dr. John Shackelford were famous Texan pioneers from Virginia. Even eventual Civil War general Robert E. Lee distinguished himself as a military leader in Texas during the 1846–48 Mexican–American War.\n\nHistorians estimate that one million Virginians left the commonwealth between the Revolution and the Civil War. With this exodus, Virginia experienced a decline in both population and political influence Prominent Virginians formed the Virginia Historical and Philosophical Society to preserve the legacy and memory of its past. At the same time, with Virginians settling so much of the west, they brought their cultural habits with them. Today, many cultural features of the American South can be attributed to Virginians who migrated west.\n\nAs the western reaches of Virginia were developed in the first half of the 19th century, the vast differences in the agricultural basis, cultural, and transportation needs of the area became a major issue for the Virginia General Assembly. In the older, eastern portion, slavery contributed to the economy. While planters were moving away from labor-intensive tobacco to mixed crops, they still held numerous slaves and their leasing out or sales was also part of their economic prospect. Slavery had become an economic institution upon which planters depended. Watersheds on most of this area eventually drained to the Atlantic Ocean. In the western reaches, families farmed smaller homesteads, mostly without enslaved or hired labor. Settlers were expanding the exploitation of resources: mining of minerals and harvesting of timber. The land drained into the Ohio River Valley, and trade followed the rivers.\n\nRepresentation in the state legislature was heavily skewed in favor of the more populous eastern areas and the historic planter elite. This was compounded by the partial allowance for slaves when counting population; as neither the slaves nor women had the vote, this gave more power to white men. The legislature's efforts to mediate the disparities ended without meaningful resolution, although the state held a constitutional convention on representation issues. Thus, at the outset of the American Civil War, Virginia was caught not only in national crisis, but in a long-standing controversy within its own boundaries. While other border states had similar regional differences, Virginia had a long history of east-west tensions which finally came to a head; it was the only state to divide into two separate states during the War.\nAfter the Revolution, various infrastructure projects began to be developed, including the Dismal Swamp Canal, the James River and Kanawha Canal, and various turnpikes. Virginia was home to the first of all Federal infrastructure projects under the new Constitution, the Cape Henry Light of 1792, located at the mouth of the Chesapeake Bay. Following the War of 1812, several Federal national defense projects were undertaken in Virginia. Drydock Number One was constructed in Portsmouth in the 1827. Across the James River, Fort Monroe was built to defend Hampton Roads, completed in 1834.\n\nIn the 1830s, railroads began to be built in Virginia. In 1831, the Chesterfield Railroad began hauling coal from the mines in Midlothian to docks at Manchester (near Richmond), powered by gravity and draft animals. The first railroad in Virginia to be powered by locomotives was the Richmond, Fredericksburg and Potomac Railroad, chartered in 1834, with the intent to connect with steamboat lines at Aquia Landing running to Washington, D.C.. Soon after, others (with equally descriptive names) followed: the Richmond and Petersburg Railroad and Louisa Railroad in 1836, the Richmond and Danville Railroad in 1847, the Orange and Alexandria Railroad in 1848, and the Richmond and York River Railroad. In 1849, the Virginia Board of Public Works established the Blue Ridge Railroad. Under Engineer Claudius Crozet, the railroad successfully crossed the Blue Ridge Mountains via the Blue Ridge Tunnel at Afton Mountain.\n\nPetersburg became a manufacturing center, as well as a city where free black artisans and craftsmen could make a living. In 1860, half its population was black and of that, one-third were free blacks, the largest such population in the state.\n\nWith extensive iron deposits, especially in the western counties, Virginia was a pioneer in the iron industry. The first ironworks in the new world was established at Falling Creek in 1619, though it was destroyed in 1622. There would eventually grow to be 80 ironworks, charcoal furnaces and forges with 7,000 hands at any one time, about 70 percent of them slaves. Ironmasters hired slaves from local slave owners because they were cheaper than white workers, easier to control, and could not switch to a better employer. But the work ethic was weak, because the wages went to the owner, not to the workers, who were forced to work hard, were poorly fed and clothed, and were separated from their families. Virginia's industry increasingly fell behind Pennsylvania, New Jersey and Ohio, which relied on free labor. Bradford (1959) recounts the many complaints about slave laborers and argues the over-reliance on slaves contributed to the failure of the iron-masters to adopt improved methods of production for fear the slaves would sabotage them. Most of the blacks were unskilled manual laborers, although Lewis (1977) reports that some were in skilled positions.\n\nVirginia at first refused to join the Confederacy, but did so after President Lincoln on April 15 called for troops from all states; that meant Federal troops crossing Virginia on the way south to subdue South Carolina. On April 17, 1861 the convention voted to secede, and voters ratified the decision on May 23. Immediately the Union army moved into northern Virginia and captured Alexandria without a fight, and controlled it for the remainder of the war. The Wheeling area had opposed secession and remained strong for the Union.\n\nBecause of its strategic significance, the Confederacy relocated its capital to Richmond. Richmond was at the end of a long supply line and as the highly symbolic capital of the Confederacy became the main target of round after round of invasion attempts. A major center of iron production during the civil war was located in Richmond at Tredegar Iron Works, which produced most of the artillery for the war. The city was the site of numerous army hospitals. Libby Prison for captured Union officers gained an infamous reputation for the overcrowded and harsh conditions, with a high death rate. Richmond's main defenses were trenches built surrounding it down towards the nearby city of Petersburg. Saltville was a primary source of Confederate salt (critical for food preservation) during the war, leading to the two Battles of Saltville.\n\nThe first major battle of the Civil War occurred on July 21, 1861. Union forces attempted to take control of the railroad junction at Manassas, but the Confederate Army reached it first and won the First Battle of Manassas (known as \"Bull Run\" in Northern naming convention). Both sides mobilized for war; the year 1861 went on without another major fight.\n\nMen from all economic and social levels, both slaveholders and nonslaveholders, as well as former Unionists, enlisted in great numbers on both sides. Areas, especially in the west and along the border, that sent few men to the Confederacy were characterized by few slaves, poor economies, and a history of reinal antagonism to the Tidewater.\n\nThe western counties could not tolerate the Confederacy. Breaking away, they first formed the Union state of Virginia (recognized by Washington); it is called the Restored government of Virginia and was based in Alexandria, across the river from Washington. The Restored government did little except give its permission for Congress to form the new state of West Virginia in 1862. From May to August 1861, a series of Unionist conventions met in Wheeling; the Second Wheeling Convention constituted itself as a legislative body called the Restored Government of Virginia. It declared Virginia was still in the Union but that the state offices were vacant and elected a new governor, Francis H. Pierpont; this body gained formal recognition by the Lincoln administration on July 4. On August 20 the Wheeling body passed an ordinance for the creation; it was put to public vote on Oct. 24. The vote was in favor of a new state—West Virginia—which was distinct from the Pierpont government, which persisted until the end of the war. Congress and Lincoln approved, and, after providing for gradual emancipation of slaves in the new state constitution, West Virginia became the 35th state on June 20, 1863. In effect there were now three states: the Confederate Virginia, the Union Restored Virginia, and West Virginia.\n\nThe state and national governments in Richmond did not recognize the new state, and Confederates did not vote there. The Confederate government in Richmond sent in Robert E. Lee. But Lee found little local support and was defeated by Union forces from Ohio. Union victories in 1861 drove the Confederate forces out of the Monongahela and Kanawha valleys, and throughout the remainder of the war the Union held the region west of the Alleghenies and controlled the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad in the north. The new state was not subject to Reconstruction.\n\nFor the remainder of the war, many major battles were fought across Virginia, including the Seven Days Battles, the Battle of Fredericksburg, the Battle of Chancellorsville, the Battle of Brandy Station\n\nOver the course of the War, despite occasional tactical victories and spectacular counter-stroke raids, Confederate control of many regions of Virginia was gradually lost to Federal advance. By October 1862 the northern 9th and 10th Congressional districts along the Potomac were under Union control. Eastern Shore, Northern, Middle and Lower Peninsula and the 2nd congressional district surrounding Norfolk west to Suffolk were permanently Union-occupied by May. Other regions, such as the Piedmont and Shenandoah Valley, regularly changed hands through numerous campaigns.\n\nIn 1864, the Union Army planned to attack Richmond by a direct overland approach through Overland Campaign and the Battle of the Wilderness, culminating in the Siege of Petersburg which lasted from the summer of 1864 to April 1865. By November 6, 1864, Confederate forces controlled only four of Virginia's 16 congressional districts in the region of Richmond-Petersburg and their Southside counties.\n\nIn April 1865, Richmond was burned by a retreating Confederate Army ; Lincoln walked the city streets to cheering crowds of newly freed blacks. The Confederate government fled south, pausing in Danville for a few days. The end came when Lee surrendered to Ulysses Grant at Appomattox on April 9, 1865.\n\nVirginia had been devastated by the war, with the infrastructure (such as railroads) in ruins; many plantations burned out; and large numbers of refugees without jobs, food or supplies beyond rations provided by the Union Army, especially its Freedmen's Bureau.\n\nHistorian Mary Farmer-Kaiser reports that white landowners complained to the Bureau about unwillingness of freedwomen to work in the fields as evidence of their laziness, and asked the Bureau to force them to sign labor contracts. In response, many Bureau officials \"readily condemned the withdrawal of freedwomen from the work force as well as the 'hen pecked' husbands who allowed it.\" While the Bureau did not force freedwomen to work, it did force freedmen to work or be arrested as vagrants. Furthermore, agents urged poor unmarried mothers to give their older children up as apprentices to work for white masters. Farmer-Kaiser concludes that \"Freedwomen found both an ally and an enemy in the bureau.\"\n\nThere were three phases in Virginia's Reconstruction era: wartime, presidential, and congressional. Immediately after the war President Andrew Johnson recognized the Francis Harrison Pierpont government as legitimate and restored local government. The Virginia legislature passed Black Codes that severely restricted Freedmen's mobility and rights; they had only limited rights and were not considered citizens, nor could they vote. The state ratified the 13th amendment to abolish slavery and revoked the 1861 ordnance of secession. Johnson was satisfied that Reconstruction was complete.\n\nOther Republicans in Congress refused to seat the newly elected state delegation; the Radicals wanted better evidence that slavery and similar methods of serfdom had been abolished, and the freedmen given rights of citizens. They also were concerned that Virginia leaders had not renounced Confederate nationalism. After winning large majorities in the 1866 national election, the Radical Republicans gained power in Congress. They put Virginia (and nine other ex-Confederate states) under military rule. Virginia was administered as the \"First Military District\" in 1867–69 under General John Schofield Meanwhile, the Freedmen became politically active by joining the pro-Republican Union League, holding conventions, and demanding universal male suffrage and equal treatment under the law, as well as demanding disfranchisement of ex-Confederates and the seizure of their plantations. McDonough, finding that Schofield was criticized by conservative whites for supporting the Radical cause on the one hand, and attacked on the other by Radicals for thinking black suffrage was premature on the other, concludes that \"he performed admirably' by following a middle course between extremes.\n\nIncreasingly a deep split opened up in the republican ranks. The moderate element had national support and called itself \"True Republicans.\" The more radical element set out to disfranchise whites—such as not allowing a man to hold office if he was a private in the Confederate army, or had sold food to the Confederate government, plus land reform. About 20,000 former Confederates were denied the right to vote in the 1867 election. In 1867, radical James Hunnicutt (1814–1880), a white preacher, editor and Scalawag (white Southerners supporting Reconstruction) mobilized the black Republican vote by calling for the confiscation of all plantations and turning the land over to Freedmen and poor whites. The \"True Republicans\" (the moderates), led by former Whigs, businessmen and planters, while supportive of black suffrage, drew the line at property confiscation. A compromise was reached calling for confiscation if the planters tried to intimidate black voters. Hunnicutt's coalition took control of the Republican Party, and began to demand the permanent disfranchisement of all whites who had supported the Confederacy. The Virginia Republican party became permanently split, and many moderate Republicans switched to the opposition \"Conservatives\". The Radicals won the 1867 election for delegates to a constitutional convention.\nThe 1868 constitutional convention included 33 white Conservatives, and 72 Radicals (of whom 24 were Blacks, 23 Scalawag, and 21 Carpetbaggers. Called the \"Underwood Constitution\" after the presiding officer, the main accomplishment was to reform the tax system, and create a system of free public schools for the first time in Virginia. After heated debates over disfranchising Confederates, the Virginia legislature approved a Constitution that excluded ex-Confederates from holding office, but allowed them to vote in state and federal elections.\n\nUnder pressure from national Republicans to be more moderate, General Schofield continued to administer the state through the Army. He appointed a personal friend, Henry H. Wells as provisional governor. Wells was a Carpetbagger and a former Union general. Schofield and Wells fought and defeated Hunnicutt and the Scalawag Republicans. They took away contracts for state printing orders from Hunnicutt's newspaper. The national government ordered elections in 1869 that included a vote on the new Underwood constitution, a separate one on its two disfranchisement clauses that would have permanently stripped the vote from most former rebels, and a separate vote for state officials. The Army enrolled the Freedmen (ex-slaves) as voters but would not allow some 20,000 prominent whites to vote or hold office. The Republicans nominated Wells for governor, as Hunnicutt and most Scalawags went over to the opposition.\n\nThe leader of the moderate Republicans, calling themselves \"True Republicans,\" was William Mahone (1826–1895), a railroad president and former Confederate general. He formed a coalition of white Scalawag Republicans, some blacks, and ex-Democrats who formed the Conservative Party. Mahone recommended that whites had to accept the results of the war, including civil rights and the vote for Freedmen. Mahone convinced the Conservative Party to drop its own candidate and endorse Gilbert C. Walker, Mahone's candidate for governor. In return, Mahone's people endorsed Conservatives for the legislative races. Mahone's plan worked, as the voters in 1869 elected Walker and defeated the proposed disfranchisement of ex-Confederates.\n\nWhen the new legislature ratified the 14th and 15th amendments to the U.S. Constitution, Congress seated its delegation, and Virginia Reconstruction came to an end in January 1870. The Radical Republicans had been ousted in a non-violent election. Virginia was the only southern state that did not elect a civilian government that represented more Radical Republican principles. Suffering from widespread destruction and difficulties in adapting to free labor, white Virginians generally came to share the postwar bitterness typical of the southern attitudes. Historian Richard Lowe argues that the obstacles faced by the Radical Republican movement made their cause hopeless:\n\nIn addition to those that were rebuilt, new railroads developed after the Civil War. In 1868, under railroad baron Collis P. Huntington, the Virginia Central Railroad was merged and transformed into the Chesapeake and Ohio Railroad. In 1870, several railroads were merged to form the Atlantic, Mississippi and Ohio Railroad, later renamed Norfolk & Western. In 1880, the towpath of the now-defunct James River & Kanawha canal was transformed into the Richmond and Allegheny Railroad, which within a decade would merge into the Chesapeake & Ohio. Others would include the Southern Railroad, the Seaboard Air Line, and the Atlantic Coast Line; still others would eventually reach into Virginia, including the Baltimore & Ohio and the Pennsylvania Railroad. The rebuilt Richmond, Fredericksburg, and Potomac Railroad eventually was linked to Washington, D.C..\n\nIn the 1880s, the Pocahontas Coalfield opened up in far southwest Virginia, with others to follow, in turn providing more demand for railroads transportation. In 1909, the Virginian Railway opened, built for the express purpose of hauling coal from the mountains of West Virginia to the ports at Hampton Roads. The growth of railroads resulted in the creation of new towns and rapid growth of others, including Clifton Forge, Roanoke, Crewe and Victoria. The railroad boom was not without incident: the Wreck of the Old 97 occurred just north of Danville, Virginia in 1903, later immortalized by a popular ballad.\nWith the invention of the cigarette rolling machine, and the great increase in smoking in the early 20th century, cigarettes and other tobacco products became a major industry in Richmond and Petersburg. Tobacco magnates such as Lewis Ginter funded a number of public institutions.\n\nA division among Virginia politicians occurred in the 1870s, when those who supported a reduction of Virginia's pre-war debt (\"Readjusters\") opposed those who felt Virginia should repay its entire debt plus interest (\"Funders\"). Virginia's pre-war debt was primarily for infrastructure improvements overseen by the Virginia Board of Public Works, much of which were destroyed during the war or in the new State of West Virginia.\n\nAfter his unsuccessful bid for the Democratic nomination for governor in 1877, former confederate General and railroad executive William Mahone became the leader of the \"Readjusters\", forming a coalition of conservative Democrats and white and black Republicans. The so-called Readjusters aspired \"to break the power of wealth and established privilege\" and to promote public education. The party promised to \"readjust\" the state debt in order to protect funding for newly established public education, and allocate a fair share to the new State of West Virginia. Its proposal to repeal the poll tax and increase funding for schools and other public facilities attracted biracial and cross-party support.\n\nThe Readjuster Party was successful in electing its candidate, William E. Cameron as governor, and he served from 1882 to 1886. Mahone served as a Senator in the U.S. Congress from 1881 to 1887, as well as fellow Readjustor Harrison H. Riddleberger, who served in the U.S. Senate from 1883 to 1889. Readjusters' effective control of Virginia politics lasted until 1883, when they lost majority control in the state legislature, followed by the election of Democrat Fitzhugh Lee as governor in 1885. The Virginia legislature replaced both Mahone and Riddleberger in the U.S. Senate with Democrats.\n\nIn 1888, the exception to Readjustor and Democratic control was John Mercer Langston, who was elected to Congress from the Petersburg area on the Republican ticket. He was the first black elected to Congress from the state, and the last for nearly a century. He served one term. A talented and vigorous politician, he was an Oberlin College graduate. He had long been active in the abolitionist cause in Ohio before the Civil War, had been president of the National Equal Rights League from 1864 to 1868, and had headed and created the law department at Howard University, and acted as president of the college. When elected, he was president of what became Virginia State University.\n\nWhile the Readjustor Party faded, the goal of public education remained strong, with institutions established for the education of schoolteachers. In 1884, the state acquired a bankrupt women's college at Farmville and opened it as a normal school. Growth of public education led to the need for additional teachers. In 1908, two additional normal schools were established, one at Fredericksburg and one at Harrisonburg, and in 1910, one at Radford.\nAfter the Readjuster Party disappeared, Virginia Democrats rapidly passed legislation and constitutional amendments that effectively disfranchised African Americans and many poor whites, through the use of poll taxes and literacy tests. They created white, one-party rule under the Democratic Party for the next 80 years. White state legislators passed statutes that restored white supremacy through imposition of Jim Crow segregation. In 1902, Virginia passed a new constitution that reduced voter registration.\n\nThe Progressive Era after 1900 brought numerous reforms, designed to modernize the state, increase efficiency, apply scientific methods, promote education and eliminate waste and corruption.\n\nA key leader was Governor Claude Swanson (1906–10), a Democrat who left machine politics behind to win office using the new primary law. Swanson's coalition of reformers in the legislature, built schools and highways, raised teacher salaries and standards, promoted the state's public health programs, and increased funding for prisons. Swanson fought against child labor, lowered railroad rates and raised corporate taxes, while systematizing state services and introducing modern management techniques. The state funded a growing network of roads, with much of the work done by black convicts in chain gangs. After Swanson moved to the U.S. Senate in 1910 he promoted Progressivism at the national level as a supporter of President Woodrow Wilson, who had been born in Virginia and was considered a native son. Swanson, as a power on naval affairs, promoted the Norfolk Navy Yard and Newport News Ship Building and Drydock Corporation. Swanson's statewide organization evolved into the \"Byrd Organization.\"\n\nThe State Corporation Commission (SCC) was formed as part of the 1902 Constitution, over the opposition of the railroads, to regulate railroad policies and rates. The SCC was independent of parties, courts, and big businesses, and was designed to maximize the public interest. It became an effective agency, which especially pleased local merchants by keeping rates low.\n\nVirginia has a long history of agricultural reformers, and the Progressive Era stimulated their efforts. Rural areas suffered persistent problems, such as declining populations, widespread illiteracy, poor farming techniques, and debilitating diseases among both farm animals and farm families. Reformers emphasized the need to upgrade the quality of elementary education. With federal help, in they set up a county agent system (today the Virginia Cooperative Extension) that taught farmers the latest scientific methods for dealing with tobacco and other crops, and farm house wives how to maximize their efficiency in the kitchen and nursery.\n\nSome upper-class women, typified by Lila Meade Valentine of Richmond, promoted numerous Progressive reforms, including kindergartens, teacher education, visiting nurses programs, and vocational education for both races. Middle-class white women were especially active in the Prohibition movement. The woman suffrage movement became entangled in racial issues—whites were reluctant to allow black women the vote—and was unable to broaden its base beyond middle-class whites. Virginia women got the vote in 1920, the result of a national constitutional amendment.\n\nIn higher education, the key leader was Edwin A. Alderman, president of the University of Virginia, 1904–31. His goal was the transformation of the southern university into a force for state service and intellectual leadership. and educational utility. Alderman successfully professionalized and modernized the state's system of higher education. He promoted international standards of scholarship, and a statewide network of extension services. Joined by other college presidents, he promoted the Virginia Education Commission, created in 1910. Alderman's crusade encountered some resistance from traditionalists, and never challenged the Jim Crow system of segregated schooling.\nWhile the progressives were modernizers, there was also a surge of interest in Virginia traditions and heritage, especially among the aristocratic First Families of Virginia (FFV). The Association for the Preservation of Virginia Antiquities (APVA), founded in Williamsburg in 1889, emphasized patriotism in the name of Virginia's 18th-century Founding Fathers. In 1907, the Jamestown Exposition was held near Norfolk to celebrate the tricentennial of the arrival of the first English colonists and the founding of Jamestown.\n\nAttended by numerous federal dignitaries, and serving as the launch point for the Great White Fleet, the Jamestown Exposition also spurred interest in the military potential of the area. The site of the exposition would later become, in 1917, the location of the Norfolk Naval Station. The proximity to Washington, D.C., the moderate climate, and strategic location of a large harbor at the center of the Atlantic seaboard made Virginia a key location during World War I for new military installations. These included Fort Story, the Army Signal Corps station at Langley, Quantico Marine Base in Prince William County, Fort Belvoir in Fairfax County, Fort Lee near Petersburg and Fort Eustis, in Warwick County (now Newport News). At the same time, heavy shipping traffic made the area a target for U-boats, and a number of merchant vessels were attacked or sunk off the Virginia coast.\n\nTemperance became an issue in the early 20th century. In 1916, a statewide referendum passed to outlaw the consumption of alcohol. This was overturned in 1933. \n\nAfter 1930, tourism began to grow with the development of Colonial Williamsburg.\n\nShenandoah National Park was constructed from newly gathered land, as well as the Blue Ridge Parkway and Skyline Drive. The Civilian Conservation Corps played a major role in developing that National Park, as well as Pocahontas State Park. By 1940, new highway bridges crossed the lower Potomac, Rappahannock, York, and James Rivers, bringing to an end the long-distance steamboat service which had long served as primary transportation throughout the Chesapeake Bay area. Ferryboats remain today in only a few places.\n\nBlacks comprised a third of the population but lost nearly all their political power. The electorate was so small that from 1905 to 1948 government employees and officeholders cast a third of the votes in state elections. This small, controllable electorate facilitated the formation of a powerful statewide political machine by Harry Byrd (1887–1966), which dominated from the 1920s to the 1960s. Most of the blacks who remained politically active supported the Byrd organization, which in turn protected their right to vote, making Virginia's race relations the most harmonious in the South before the 1950s, according to V.O. Key. Not until Federal civil rights legislation was passed in 1964 and 1965 did African Americans recover the power to vote and the protection of other basic constitutional civil rights.\n\nThe economic stimulus of the World War brought full employment for workers, high wages, and high profits for farmers. It brought in many thousands of soldiers and sailors for training. Virginia sent 300,000 men and 4,000 women to the services. The buildup for the war greatly increased the state's naval and industrial economic base, as did the growth of federal government jobs in Northern Virginia and adjacent Washington, DC. The Pentagon was built in Arlington as the largest office building in the world. Additional installations were added: in 1941, Fort A.P. Hill and Fort Pickett opened, and Fort Lee was reactivated. The Newport News shipyard expanded its labor force from 17,000 to 70,000 in 1943, while the Radford Arsenal had 22,000 workers making explosives. Turnover was very high—in one three-month period the Newport News shipyard hired 8400 new workers as 8,300 others quit.\n\nIn addition to general postwar growth, the Cold War resulted in further growth in both Northern Virginia and Hampton Roads. With the Pentagon already established in Arlington, the newly formed Central Intelligence Agency located its headquarters further afield at Langley (unrelated to the Air Force Base). In the early 1960s, the new Dulles International Airport was built, straddling the Fairfax County-Loudoun County border. Other sites in Northern Virginia included the listening station at Vint Hill. Due to the presence of the U.S. Atlantic Fleet in Norfolk, in 1952 the Allied Command Atlantic of NATO was headquartered there, where it remained for the duration of the Cold War. Later in the 1950s and across the river, Newport News Shipbuilding would begin construction of the USS Enterprise—the world's first nuclear-powered aircraft carrier—and the subsequent atomic carrier fleet.\n\nVirginia also witnessed American efforts in the Space Race. When the National Advisory Committee for Aeronautics was transformed into the National Aeronautics and Space Administration in 1958, the resulting Space Task Group headquartered at the laboratories of Langley Research Center. From there, it would initiate Project Mercury, and would remain the headquarters of the U.S. manned spaceflight program until its transfer to Houston in 1962. On the Eastern Shore, near Chincoteague, Wallops Flight Facility served as a rocket launch site, including the launch of Little Joe 2 on December 4, 1959, which sent a rhesus monkey, Sam, into suborbital spaceflight. Langley later oversaw the Viking program to Mars.\n\nThe new U.S. Interstate highway system begun in the 1950s and the new Hampton Roads Bridge-Tunnel in 1958 helped transform Virginia Beach from a tiny resort town into one of the state's largest cities by 1963, and spurring the growth of the Hampton Roads region linked by the Hampton Roads Beltway. In the western portion of the state, completion of north-south Interstate 81 brought better access and new businesses to dozens of counties over a distance of as well as facilitating travel by students at the many Shenandoah area colleges and universities. The creation of Smith Mountain Lake, Lake Anna, Claytor Lake, Lake Gaston, and Buggs Island Lake, by damming rivers, attracted many retirees and vacationers to those rural areas. As the century drew to a close, Virginia tobacco growing gradually declined due to health concerns, although not at steeply as in Southern Maryland. A state community college system brought affordable higher education within commuting distance of most Virginians, including those in remote, underserved localities. Other new institutions were founded, most notably George Mason University and Liberty University. Localities such as Danville and Martinsville suffered greatly as their manufacturing industries closed.\n\nIn 1944, Irene Morgan refused to give up her seat on an interstate bus and was arrested in Middlesex County, Virginia pursuant to Virginia's segregation laws. Morgan appealed her case up to the Supreme Court and, in 1946, won \"Irene Morgan v. Commonwealth of Virginia\", which struck down segregation interstate buses. Virginia continued to enforce interstate bus segregation, and in 1947, activists organized a series of integrated rides, the Journey of Reconciliation, through Virginia and other states of the Upper South in an act of civil disobedience against Virginia's defiance of the Supreme Court's ruling. Another Supreme Court ruling involving Virginia, \"Boynton v. Virginia\", desegregated interstate bus terminals. \"Morgan\", \"Boynton\", and the Journey of Reconciliation inspired the 1961 Freedom Rides that fought bus segregation in the Deep South. Along with the bus desegregation cases, Virginia was a contestant in the Supreme Court ruling that invalidated laws prohibiting interracial marriage, \"Loving v. Virginia\".\n\nSenator Harry Byrd, the state's dominant politician, was long a champion of constitutional rights against expansion of federal power. He deployed two doctrines in a last ditch battle against racial integration after the Brown decision of 1954: interposition and massive resistance. The first doctrine proclaimed that the U.S. Constitution allowed the states to interpose state sovereignty blocking rulings of federal courts from taking effect on local school boards. The new doctrine of Massive Resistance became a rallying cry across the South to block orders by federal courts to integrate public schools. The test cases came in Virginia, when in 1956 the legislature adopted interposition and urged fellow states to join in. Governor Stanley abandon his earlier moderation, and the legislature adopted the Stanley plan. It included 23 segregationist laws, including five that were designed to intimidate the NAACP. The governor now had the power to close public schools, and he shut down the first one in Warren County in 1958, followed by Charlottesville and Norfolk. In 1959 both the Virginia supreme Court of Appeals, and the federal court declared the Stanley Plan unconstitutional in terms of both the state and federal constitutions. Governor J. Lindsay Almond broke with Byrd; the General assembly voted to end massive resistance. Nevertheless, in 1959-1963, Prince Edward County closed all its public schools. \n\nThe first black students attended the University of Virginia School of Law in 1950, and Virginia Tech in 1953. In 2008, various actions of the Civil Rights Movement were commemorated by the Virginia Civil Rights Memorial in Richmond.\n\nBy the 1980s, Northern Virginia and the Hampton Roads region had achieved the greatest growth and prosperity, chiefly because of employment related to Federal government agencies and defense, as well as an increase in technology in Northern Virginia. Shipping through the Port of Hampton Roads began expansion which continued into the early 21st century as new container facilities were opened. Coal piers in Newport News and Norfolk had recorded major gains in export shipments by August 2008. The recent expansion of government programs in the areas near Washington has profoundly affected the economy of Northern Virginia whose population has experienced large growth and great ethnic/ cultural diversification, exemplified by communities such as Tysons Corner, Reston and dense, urban Arlington. The subsequent growth of defense projects has also generated a local information technology industry. In recent years, intolerably heavy commuter traffic and the urgent need for both road and rail transportation improvements have been a major issue in Northern Virginia. The Hampton Roads region has also experienced much growth, as have the western suburbs of Richmond in both Henrico and Chesterfield Counties.\n\nOn January 13, 1990, Douglas Wilder became the first African American to be elected as Governor of a US state since Reconstruction when he was elected Governor of Virginia.\n\nVirginia served as a major center for information technology during the early days of the Internet and network communication. Internet and other communications companies clustered in the Dulles Corridor. By 1993, the Washington area had the largest amount of Internet backbone and the highest concentration of Internet service providers. In 2000, more than half of all Internet traffic flowed along the Dulles Toll Road, and by 2016 70% of the world's internet traffic flowed through Loudoun County. Bill von Meister founded two Virginia companies that played major roles in the commercialization of the Internet: McLean, Virginia based The Source and Control Video Corporation, forerunner of America Online. While short-lived, The Source was one of the first online service providers alongside CompuServe. On hand for the launch of The Source, Isaac Asimov remarked \"This is the beginning of the information age.\" The Source helped pave the way for future online service providers including another Virginia company founded by von Meister, America Online (AOL). AOL became the largest provider of Internet access during the Dial-up era of Internet access. AOL maintained a Virginia headquarters until the then-struggling company moved in 2007.\n\nIn 2006, former Governor of Virginia Mark Warner gave a speech and interview in the massively multiplayer online game \"Second Life\", becoming the first politician to appear in a video game. In 2007, Virginia speedily passed the nation's first spaceflight act by a vote of 99–0 in the House of Delegates. Northern Virginia company Space Adventures is currently the only company in the world offering space tourism. In 2008, Virginia became the first state to pass legislation on Internet safety, with mandatory educational courses for 11- to 16-year-olds.\n\nVirginia was targeted in the September 11, 2001 attacks, as American Airlines Flight 77 was hijacked and crashed into the Pentagon in Arlington County.\nIn 2013, by a slight margin in the Virginia Governor's race, the state of Virginia broke a long acclaimed streak of choosing a governor against the incumbent party within the White House. For the first time in more than thirty years will the Governor and the President be from the same party.\n\nStamps of Virginia events and landmarks include\n\n• Jamestown founding\n\n• Mount Vernon\n\n• Stratford Hall \n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2164838", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2164838", "title": "A1 Team France", "text": "A1 Team France\n\nA1 Team France is the French team of A1 Grand Prix, an international racing series. The team were the A1 Grand Prix champions for the inaugural season, 2005-06.\n\nA1 Team France's owner is Jean-Paul Driot. The team was previously managed by Driot's racing team Driot Associates Motor Sport (DAMS) since the series debut, but has switched to Connor Racing for the 2008-09 season.\n\n\"Driver: Loïc Duval\"\n\n\"Drivers: Jonathan Cochet, Loïc Duval, Nicolas Lapierre, Franck Montagny\"\n\nTeam France remained competitive during 2007-08, with a win and six podiums leaving them in 4th position overall.\n\n\"Drivers: Loïc Duval, Nicolas Lapierre, Jean Karl Vernay\"\n\nTeam France fell from grace in 2006-07, however still managed to score seven podiums to finish 4th in the championship.\n\n\"Drivers: Nicolas Lapierre, Alexandre Premat\"\n\nTeam France were the dominant force during the inaugural season, winning thirteen of the 22 rounds, and becoming runaway champions.\n\n(), \"spr\" indicate a Sprint Race, \"fea\" indicate a Main Race.\n"}
{"id": "2164840", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2164840", "title": "A1 Team Germany", "text": "A1 Team Germany\n\nA1 Team Germany was the German team of A1 Grand Prix, an international racing series. The team were the A1 Grand Prix champions for the second season, 2006-07. They were run by the English Super Nova Racing team until the end of 2007-08. GU-Racing took over for \n2008-09, but the team missed the first four rounds.\n\nRolf Beisswanger took over the role of seat holder from Willi Weber, in preparation for 2009.\n\n\"Drivers: Timo Scheider, Sebastian Stahl, Adrian Sutil\"\n\nThe team had a mediocre season, finishing at a disappointing 15th place in the championship.\n\n\"Drivers: Nico Hülkenberg, Christian Vietoris\"\n\nTeam Germany clinched the A1GP title, with a dominant, and almost singlehanded performance by Nico Hülkenberg, scoring nine victories, and beating nearest rivals New Zealand by 35 points.\n\n\"Drivers: Michael Ammermüller, Christian Vietoris\"\n\nTeam Germany fell from grace in 2007-08. Although the team won two races, Michael Ammermüller was excluded from two races for his overly aggressive driving style.\n\n\"Drivers: André Lotterer, Michael Ammermüller\"\n\n(), \"spr\" indicate a Sprint Race, \"fea\" indicate a Main Race.\n\n"}
{"id": "2164843", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2164843", "title": "Knott's Berry Farm's Wild West Stunt show", "text": "Knott's Berry Farm's Wild West Stunt show\n\nKnott's Berry Farm's Wild West Stunt Show debuted on October 7, 1974. The show was written by Gary Salisbury and was only scheduled to run Monday through Friday during the Winter season in the Wagon Camp Theatre. The show was so popular that by the end of the first seven months it was scheduled every day, and night shows were added in the evening during the summer months.\n\nMic Rodgers (Mel Gibson's stunt double), John Casino (Kurt Russell's stunt double), Keith Tellez (Dustin Hoffman's stunt double, Fast & Furious ), Bob Elmore (John Candy's stunt double), Carl Ciarfalio (The Whole Ten Yards), Merritt Yohnka (stuntman on Nash Bridges), Ray Gabriel (Baywatch, Magnolia (film), Bob Hoskins' stunt double), Jim Poslof, Bob Rochelle, Bob Stambaugh, John Agnew, Terry Jackson, Robert Shook, Davey Thompson (Multiplicity (film), Absolute Power (film), Spider-Man 3, Ed Harris' stunt double), and Stephen Burhoe (1st & Ten (HBO TV series), The Tonight Show with Jay Leno, acting coach).\n\nOn opening day the cast included Mic Rodgers and Carl Ciarfalio, two of the performers mentioned above. On October 7, 2004 the Wild West Stunt Show turned 30 years old and became the most successful and longest-running in-house produced show in amusement park history. The original Wild West Stunt Show was retired in 2005, replaced with a new stunt show entitled \"Fool's Gold.\" The new show is still referred to by Knott's Berry Farm as the Wild West Stunt Show. Fool’s Gold ran for several years before it was once again replaced by “Frontier Feats of Wonder” in 2015. Frontier Feats of Wonder had a script and story overlay and a new version of the show was released in 2017.\n\nA partial list of other members of the team over the years includes: Ken Clark, Karen Goldfuss, Allen Gilman, Paul Townsend, Tim Henderson, John Hyatt, Mel Hampton, Paul Ortiz, Steve Pape, Darren Scallion, Robert Leonard, Dane Jessie, Dave Bowman, Robyne Miller, Steve Rizzo, Tyler Dilts, P.J. Stover, Marc Shaffer, Vickie Hull, Dave Perkins, Jay Mead, Craig McAlpin, Allen Brock and Robert Matthew Baxter \n"}
{"id": "2164845", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2164845", "title": "Dennis Muren", "text": "Dennis Muren\n\nDennis Muren, A.S.C (born November 1, 1946) is an American film special effects artist and supervisor. He has worked on the films of Steven Spielberg, James Cameron, and George Lucas, among others, and won nine Oscars in total: eight for Best Visual Effects and a Technical Achievement Academy Award.\n\nMuren was born in Glendale, California, the son of Charline Louise (née Clayton) and Elmer Ernest Muren. He developed an interest in film-making and special effects from an early age. While studying business at Pasadena City College, Muren spent $6500 to make \"Equinox\", a short science fiction film. Tonylyn Productions, a small film company, liked the film enough to distribute it. Tonylyn hired film editor Jack Woods to direct additional footage in order to make \"Equinox\" into a feature-length movie. When the feature-length \"Equinox\" was released in October 1970, Muren was credited as a producer in spite of having directed much of the film and creating the special effects himself. Despite mixed to poor reviews the movie made enough money for Muren to recoup his $8000 investment, and in the years since it has become a minor cult classic.\n\nAfter earning his associate's degree, Muren began working as a visual effects artist full-time. In 1976, Muren was hired at Industrial Light & Magic (ILM), then an upstart visual effects studio founded by George Lucas. Lucas' and ILM's first film, \"Star Wars\", was released in 1977 to wide critical and public acclaim and was the highest-grossing film of all time up until that point. In 1985 he worked on the visual effects of the Disney theme park's \"Captain EO\" the American 3D/4D science fiction film starring Michael Jackson, directed by Francis Ford Coppola and the executive producer was George Lucas.\n\nMuren has been an important voice for pioneering new technologies in special effects. Muren spearheaded ILM's move from models and miniatures to CGI for the film \"\".\n\nMuren, along with Steve Williams and Mark A.Z. Dippé, helped to usher in a new age of computer generated imagery with the CG dinosaurs of \"Jurassic Park (1993)\". Steven Spielberg had intended to use go-motion for the dinosaurs, but quickly changed his mind when shown a test of a CG \"T. rex\" (with Marin County as the backdrop).\n\n\"Jurassic Park\" was the breakthrough that convinced George Lucas that technology had advanced enough to make the Star Wars prequels. Director Peter Jackson was similarly inspired by \"Jurassic Park's\" technical breakthrough to begin planning and pre-production on the \"Lord of the Rings\" trilogy \"(2001-2003)\" and \"King Kong\" \"(2005)\". Muren also contributed effects work on three \"Jurassic Park\" sequels: \" (1997)\" and \"Jurassic World (2015)\" and \" (2018)\".\n\nIn June 1999, Muren was honored with a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame, the first visual effects artist to ever be so recognized. He has also been a recipient of nine Academy Awards for Best Achievement in Visual Effects and a Technical Achievement Academy Award, the most of any living movie-maker.\n\nMuren continues to work as Senior Visual Effects Supervisor and Creative Director of Industrial Light & Magic. He also consults for Pixar.\n\nHe has a small, non-speaking role in \"Raiders of the Lost Ark\"; he appeared as a Nazi spy who peers over a magazine as Indiana Jones (Harrison Ford) boards a passenger plane. Due to their similarity in facial appearance (though great variation in height), this character is often mistaken for Major Toht (Ronald Lacey), the film's primary antagonist, but it has been confirmed that they are not the same. Muren also had a cameo in the theme park attraction, Star Tours.\n\nMuren is married to British documentary filmmaker and landscape architect Zara Muren, who directed \"Dream of The Sea Ranch\", and they have two children together. They currently live in California.\n\n"}
{"id": "2164846", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2164846", "title": "List of fastest production cars by acceleration", "text": "List of fastest production cars by acceleration\n\nThis list is limited to unmodified production cars which meet the eligibility criteria below. All entries must be able to be verified from reliable sources.\n\nBecause of the inconsistencies with the various definitions of production cars, dubious claims by manufacturers and self-interest groups, and inconsistent or changing application of the definitions, this list has a defined set of requirements. For further explanation of how these were arrived at see the links above.\n\nFor the purposes of this list a production car is defined as:\n\nIf an independent time becomes available, that time will be listed over the manufacturer's time regardless if the latter is quicker. Many elements change how fast the car can accelerate to . Tires, elevation above sea level, weight of the driver, testing equipment, weather conditions and surface of testing track all influence these times.\nOne-foot rollout before the timer starts is industry standard in North America so measurements which exclude the first foot of acceleration are allowed. After \"Car and Driver\" switched to one-foot rollout in 2019 they updated some previous times (about 0.1 second faster than the approximation in the original tests).\n\nThese are standing start acceleration times measured by independent, reliable sources. (no rollout allowed)\n"}
{"id": "2164847", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2164847", "title": "Cammeray", "text": "Cammeray\n\nCammeray is a residential suburb located five kilometres north of the Sydney central business district (CBD) and is part of North Sydney Council local government area. \n\nCammeray takes its name from the Cammeraygal people, an Aboriginal clan who once occupied the lower North Shore. Radiometric dating (carbon dating) indicates that indigenous peoples lived in the Cammeray area at least 5,800 years ago and Aboriginal shell middens have been discovered at Folly Point and cave paintings in Primrose Park. Prior to the 1920s, the suburb was known as Suspension Bridge reflecting the now Long Gully Bridge that joined Northbridge to Cammeray. Cammeray was slow to develop mainly due to its steep topography and remoteness from transport. \n\nDespite the land boom of the 1880s and plans for a suspension bridge across Flat Rock Creek, development in the Cammeray area was mostly confined to the south of the suburb with some boatmen‟s houses on Folly Point. The rest of the district was very rural consisting of bushland, dairies and market gardens. Cammeray was also the site of Sydney's first quarry, with sandstone blocks from the quarry making many of the first buildings in Sydney town. \n\nAn Australian politician and solicitor, Joseph Palmer Abbott, built \"Tarella\", a two-storey Italianate mansion in Amherst Street, c. 1886, on land he had acquired in 1881. Palmer Street in Cammeray was named after him. \"Tarella\" includes a coachhouse at the rear, with a distinctive clock tower. It is listed with the Heritage Council of New South Wales.\n\nIn 1892, a suspension bridge was built as a private initiative by the North Sydney Investment and Tramway Company, to attract buyers for new residential allotments on the north side of Long Bay. In 1914, the first tram crossed the bridge, conveniently linking the new suburb and beautiful Middle Harbour peninsulas to the more developed parts of North Sydney. Land sales revived in 1909 when the tramway along Miller Street with a string of subdivisions opening up including the Bell‟s Estate (1909). In the mid1930s faults were discovered in the bridge's steel cables and anchorages in the rock below so public transport was interrupted with passengers having to walk across the bridge as trams waited on either side.\n\nEstates established in the 1920s and 30s included the Morning Glow Estate (1921), Cammeray Estate (1932) and Green‟s Estate (1935). By the 1940s motor transport made the area more accessible and many waterfront houses were built. The last substantial subdivision in Cammeray was of the \"Three Oaks Dairy‟ in 1942. It is recorded, however, that as late as 1958 dairy cattle still grazed at Cammeray. \n\nIn the 1960s Cammeray‟s residential progress was interrupted when the Warringah Expressway cut through most of the North Sydney including Cammeray. Portions of St Thomas‟ Cemetery and Cammeray Park were resumed, as well as numerous houses, particularly in the area between Falcon and Amherst Streets. The Warringah Expressway also divides Cammeray, with the only crossing points being at West, Miller, Ernest and Falcon Streets.\n\nAmherst Street was named after William Pitt Amherst, who was Governor-General of India 1823-28. Heritage listings include \"Tarella\" at 3 Amherst Street and the Cammeray Substation at 143 Bellevue Street.\n\nAccording to the 2016 census of Population, there were 7,006 residents in Cammeray. In Cammeray, 63.6% of people were born in Australia. The most common countries of birth were England 6.6%, New Zealand 2.8%, South Africa 1.7%, India 1.5% and China 1.4%. 78.6% of people only spoke English at home. The next most common language spoken at home was Mandarin at 1.7%. \nThe most common responses for religion in Cammeray were No Religion 36.6%, Catholic 24.5% and Anglican 14.2%.\nMiller Street is the main commercial thoroughfare of Cammeray with restaurants, cafes, the local post office, a petrol station and small businesses. Cammeray Square is a modern shopping and residential complex on Miller Street and adjacent to Green Park on Cammeray Road is a small business precinct giving the local area a village feel.\n\nWith close proximity to the Sydney CBD and the Warringah expressway Cammeray's location provides easy private and public access to all directions. Public transport is provided by bus with Cammeray being the last south-bound stop for services to the Sydney CBD via the Warringah Freeway. Buses to North Sydney, Milsons Point and Crows Nest are also available. \n\nCammeray has two public schools catering for students from Kindergarten to Year 6. Cammeray Public School is situated on the northern side of the suburb and Anzac Park Public School, that opened in 2016 , sits more to the south.\n\nAll Saints' Anglican church on Carter Street is the only church in Cammeray. It is part of the Naremburn Cammeray Anglican Church.\n\nCammeray has a mix of private and public appartments and dwellings with 75.8% medium and high density in 2016. 23.3% of all dwellings were separate houses; 35.5% were medium density dwellings and 40.2% were in high density dwellings, compared with 10.2%, 25.0%, and 64.2% in the North Sydney Council area respectively. \n\nCammeray offers a range of sports facilities and open spaces and the surrounding natural bushland and middle harbour provides for bushwalking and boating activities. \nTunks Park is a large recreation and sporting area that is surrounded by bushland with middle harbour on the east. It provides open space, walking tracks, playground and picnic areas and has three sporting fields that are used for cricket during the summer and soccer and rugby during winter. It is a popular exercise and dog walking area with bushwalking tracks that lead towards Naremburn on the west and Northbridge on the north. A small public boat ramp allows small boats to enter Middle Harbour.\n\nCammeray Park is a large green space that offers an all year round synthetic turf field for soccer and rugby. It is surrounded by private tennis courts, a skate park, a crocket field and a golf course.\n\nGreen Park is an urban open grass area that is used for recreational activities and dog walking. It also has two public tennis courts and a child care centre.\n\nAnzac Park is a smaller open space that is mainly used for picnicking and dog walking and has a large community garden. The western area houses a grove of turpentine trees with plaques that surround North Sydney War Memorial that represent the Australian service women and men who participated in various theatres during World War II.\n\n"}
{"id": "2164848", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2164848", "title": "A1 Team Ireland", "text": "A1 Team Ireland\n\nA1 Team Ireland is the Irish team of A1 Grand Prix, an international racing series. The team were the A1 Grand Prix champions for the fourth season, 2008-09.\n\nFounded by Mark Kershaw and Mark Gallagher in 2005, the team was owned and run by Status Grand Prix. In 2008, Mark Kershaw sold his interest in the team. The new the seat holders were Mark Gallagher, Teddy Yip Jr., John P. Hynes and David Kennedy.\n\nThe inaugural team's 2005-06 car was presented to the public on 15 September 2005. For that debut season, Ralph Firman was the team's principal driver, scoring the team its first podium in Portugal to finish 8th overall in the championship. The series organisers awarded the team for being the best presented team, the first of three consecutive wins for A1 Team Ireland.\n\nIn its second season, the team did not perform quite as well. The best result achieved that season was fifth place in the Feature race at Shanghai, and the team finished in a disappointing 19th place.\n\nFor the 2007-08 season, Ralph Firman secured some points at the season opener in Zandvoort before Adam Carroll took over as the A1 Team Ireland principal driver. He went on to get four podium finishes in his debut season and record the team's first Feature Race victory in Mexico City. After winning Ireland's Dunlop Racing Driver of the Year, Niall Quinn joined the team as the Rookie Driver. A1 Team Ireland ended Season Three in 6th position, helping them to win the 'Most Improved Team' award at the 2007/08 Gala Awards. A1 Team Ireland have won the A1GP award for best presented team in all three seasons alongside winning the 'Most Appealing Livery' trophy for their stunning green car in Season Two.\n\nIn the 2008-09 season, Adam Carroll returned as lead driver, as the team set its sights on a full championship assault. As rookie driver, Niall Quinn provided the engineers with important feedback, and getting each race weekend off to a flying start. A1 Team Ireland were championship contenders most of the season, and won the championship at the last event of the season at Brands Hatch, with a dominant performance.\n\n(), \"spr\" indicates the Sprint Race, \"fea\" indicates the Feature Race.\n"}
{"id": "2164851", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2164851", "title": "A1 Team Italy", "text": "A1 Team Italy\n\nA1 Team Italy is the Italian team of A1 Grand Prix, an international racing series.\n\n\"A1 Team Italy\" owner is Piercarlo Ghinzani.\n\n\"Drivers: Edoardo Piscopo, Fabio Onidi\"\n\nFor the 2008-09 season, Edoardo Piscopo will be returning to drive for the team, and will be joined by Fabio Onidi, a Euroseries 3000 racer. The traditional dark blue livery of the car has also been changed to a red, white and green livery.\n\n\"Drivers: Edoardo Piscopo, Enrico Toccacelo\"\n\nTeam Italy scored on just five occasions, finishing 18th in the championship with 12 points.\n\n\"Drivers: Alessandro Pier Guidi, Enrico Toccacelo\"\n\nThe season was moderately successful for the team, with three podiums and a victory, scoring 52 points, and finishing 7th in the championship.\n\n\"Drivers: Massimiliano Busnelli, Max Papis, Enrico Toccacelo\"\n\nIn the inaugural season, Team Italy scored two podiums en route to 14th place in the championship with 46 points.\n\n(), \"spr\" indicate a Sprint Race, \"fea\" indicate a Main Race.\n\n"}
{"id": "2164856", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2164856", "title": "Totten trust", "text": "Totten trust\n\nA Totten trust (also referred to as a \"Payable on Death\" account) is a form of trust in the United States in which one party (the \"settlor\" or \"grantor\" of the trust) places money in a bank account or security with instructions that upon the settlor's death, whatever is in that account will pass to a named beneficiary. For example, a Totten trust arises when a bank account is titled in the form \"[depositor], in trust for [beneficiary]\".\n\nThe name is derived from \"Matter of Totten\", 179 N.Y. 112 (1904), the case decided by the New York Court of Appeals which established the legality of this practice. Although this method of creating a trust did not meet the formal requirements of trust creation, or the testamentary formalities required to make a valid will, the Court noted that such an arrangement typically involved a small amount of money left by a person of modest means, who could not otherwise afford to establish a legal mechanism for passing the specified property. For this reason, the device is sometimes called a \"poor man's will\". The funds in question are not subject to probate and, if held in a bank account, are insured in the same manner as any deposit. The beneficiary has no access to the account until the depositor's death and need not be notified that the account exists. This is also called a tentative trust because it is contingent upon the death of the settlor or creator of the trust account.\n\nMost U.S. states now recognize the validity of Totten trusts. The \"Restatement 3d of Trusts\" (Section 26) and the \"Restatement 3d of Property\" (Section 7.1 comment i) also recognize its validity. Such a device can be revoked at any time by the settlor, either by closing the account or by executing a will which disposes of the property in the account. The funds in the account can be reached by the creditors of the settlor during the settlor's life. If the intended beneficiary predeceases the settlor, then the gift will lapse, and will generally not be saved by an anti-lapse statute.\n\nA Totten Trust is classified as a \"testamentary substitute\" because it avoids the need for the assets held in the account to go through probate.\n\nTotten trusts can be created only with certain types of depository accounts or securities; in particular they can not be used to convey real property.\n\nMore generally, Totten trusts are sometimes described as \"Arrangements for deposit accounts.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2164858", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2164858", "title": "A1 Team USA", "text": "A1 Team USA\n\nA1 Team USA is the American team of A1 Grand Prix, an international racing series.\n\nOwner Rick Weidinger became interested in A1 Team USA and the A1 Grand Prix series when national franchises were being bid for the new series. Along with minority partners and friends Rusty Lewis and Bill Dean, Weidinger finalized the franchise acquisition in July 2005. The engineering side of the team was originally run by British squads David Price Racing, and then West Surrey Racing. For 2008-2009 the team was run by IndyCar Series team Andretti Green Racing and Andretti Green's IndyCar drivers, primarily Marco Andretti drove the majority of races.\n\n\"Driver: Marco Andretti, Charlie Kimball, J.R. Hildebrand\"\n\n2008-09 marked the first season in which Andretti Green Racing ran Team USA. Following the Zandvoort race, it was announced that Marco Andretti and Danica Patrick would race for Team USA at some point during the season.\n\n\"Drivers: Buddy Rice, Jonathan Summerton\"\n\nAfter a slow start to the season, Team USA gradually improved, peaking with the team's first victory. Along with 2 podiums, the team finished 12th in the championship.\n\n\"Drivers: Phil Giebler, Ryan Hunter-Reay\"\n\nTeam USA scored two podiums, and other consistent scoring to finish in 9th place in the championship.\n\n\"Drivers: Bryan Herta, Phil Giebler, Scott Speed\"\n\nIn the inaugural season, Team USA finished in 16th place in the championship.\n\nWanting to continue the momentum of A1 Team USA and pursue the idea of celebrating American open-wheel racing, team owner Rick Weidinger decided to take the We The People livery to the 90th running of the Indianapolis 500. American racing icon Al Unser, Jr. returned from retirement to join the effort. Al, along with his father and uncle, hold 9 Indianapolis 500 victories to their credit; 2 of those belonging to Al Jr. in 1992 and 1994. The 2006 Indy 500 was Al's 18th Indy start.\n\nWith operational structure provided by Dreyer & Reinbold Racing, A1 Team USA brought U.S. insurance giant GEICO to complete the American effort as the primary sponsorship partner. With everything in place, Al Unser, Jr. took the We The People car out for its maiden laps around the historic Indianapolis Motor Speedway on May 7, 2006. At the 2006 Indianapolis 500, \"Little Al\" qualified 27th of 33 cars, and was able to move up the field and race in the top half of the pack for most of the race. However, a crash ended his day, finishing 24th with 145 laps completed.\n\n(), \"spr\" indicate a Sprint Race, \"fea\" indicate a Main Race.\n\n"}
{"id": "2164876", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2164876", "title": "A1 Team Great Britain", "text": "A1 Team Great Britain\n\nA1 Team Great Britain is the British team of A1 Grand Prix, an international racing series.\n\nA1 Team Great Britain was one of the first six-seat holders in the series announced, with chairman John Surtees hosting the event. The car was unveiled to the public in September 2005, displaying a distinctive blue, red and white livery to reflect the colours of the flag of the United Kingdom, rather than Britain's traditional racing green colour.\n\nBritish financier Tony Clements was the national seat holder, and ran the corporate arm of the team until Round 5 of Season 4. Former Formula One and 500cc Motorcycle World Champion John Surtees was the team principal for the first 2 seasons of A1GP, working with the organisational structure, technical development, recruitment and race operations for the team. He quit his role before season 3 and was replaced by Katie Clements. The Arden International racing organisation was responsible for race operations of the team for the first season. However, for season 2 Surtees assembled a bespoke race team to handle the race operations of A1 Team Great Britain. That team stayed in place for the 3rd season of A1GP, and the first 5 rounds of Season 4.\n\nHowever, between Rounds 5 and 6 of Season 4, A1 Team Great Britain entered administration. From Round 6 onwards, the car was run by mechanics and engineers employed by the series itself, with pit-stops carried out by the German team.\n\n\"Driver: Danny Watts, Dan Clarke\"\n\nIn his first outing for the team at Chengdu, Danny Watts took his first pole position in the Feature Race qualifying.\n\n\"Drivers: Oliver Jarvis, Robbie Kerr\"\n\nFor the third season running, Team Great Britain finished 3rd in the championship, with two victories and five podiums, including another near-perfect weekend at Brands Hatch.\n\n\"Drivers: Oliver Jarvis, Robbie Kerr, Darren Manning\"\n\nAgain, Team Great Britain finished third in the overall championship, but accumulated three race victories as well as seven podiums, including a near-perfect weekend in their home race.\n\n\"Drivers: Robbie Kerr, Darren Manning\"\n\nA1 Team Great Britain was one of the first six-seat holders in the series announced, with chairman John Surtees hosting the event. The car was unveiled to the public in September 2005, displaying a distinctive blue, red and white livery to reflect the colours of the flag of the United Kingdom, rather than Britain's traditional racing green colour.\n\nTeam Great Britain were the first team in the series to offer a testing role to a woman driver. Katherine Legge (who had previously tested a Formula One car for the now-defunct Minardi team), tested at the Dubai Autodrome during the United Arab Emirates race weekend.\n\nThe team finished 3rd in the championship, amassing eight podiums.\n\n(), \"spr\" indicate a Sprint Race, \"fea\" indicate a Main Race. Results in bold indicate pole position, and results in \"italics\" indicate fastest lap.\n\n"}
{"id": "2164886", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2164886", "title": "Homological mirror symmetry", "text": "Homological mirror symmetry\n\nHomological mirror symmetry is a mathematical conjecture made by Maxim Kontsevich. It seeks a systematic mathematical explanation for a phenomenon called mirror symmetry first observed by physicists studying string theory.\n\nIn an address to the 1994 International Congress of Mathematicians in Zürich, speculated that mirror symmetry for a pair of Calabi–Yau manifolds \"X\" and \"Y\" could be explained as an equivalence of a triangulated category constructed from the algebraic geometry of \"X\" (the derived category of coherent sheaves on \"X\") and another triangulated category constructed from the symplectic geometry of \"Y\" (the derived Fukaya category).\n\nEdward Witten originally described the topological twisting of the N=(2,2) supersymmetric field theory into what he called the A and B model topological string theories. These models concern maps from Riemann surfaces into a fixed target—usually a Calabi–Yau manifold. Most of the mathematical predictions of mirror symmetry are embedded in the physical equivalence of the A-model on \"Y\" with the B-model on its mirror \"X\". When the Riemann surfaces have empty boundary, they represent the worldsheets of closed strings. To cover the case of open strings, one must introduce boundary conditions to preserve the supersymmetry. In the A-model, these boundary conditions come in the form of Lagrangian submanifolds of \"Y\" with some additional structure (often called a brane structure). In the B-model, the boundary conditions come in the form of holomorphic (or algebraic) submanifolds of \"X\" with holomorphic (or algebraic) vector bundles on them. These are the objects one uses to build the relevant categories. They are often called A and B branes respectively. Morphisms in the categories are given by the massless spectrum of open strings stretching between two branes.\n\nThe closed string A and B models only capture the so-called topological sector—a small portion of the full string theory. Similarly, the branes in these models are only topological approximations to the full dynamical objects that are D-branes. Even so, the mathematics resulting from this small piece of string theory has been both deep and difficult.\n\nThe School of Mathematics at the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton plans a special year devoted to Homological Mirror Symmetry during the 2016-17 academic year. Among the distinguished participants will be Paul Seidel from MIT, Maxim Kontsevich from IHÉS, and Denis Auroux, from UC Berkeley.\nOnly in a few examples have mathematicians been able to verify the conjecture. In his seminal address, Kontsevich commented that the conjecture could be proved in the case of elliptic curves using theta functions. Following this route, Alexander Polishchuk and Eric Zaslow provided a proof of a version of the conjecture for elliptic curves. Kenji Fukaya was able to establish elements of the conjecture for abelian varieties. Later, Kontsevich and Yan Soibelman provided a proof of the majority of the conjecture for nonsingular torus bundles over affine manifolds using ideas from the SYZ conjecture. In 2003, Paul Seidel proved the conjecture in the case of the quartic surface. In 2002 explained SYZ conjecture in the context of Hitchin system and Langlands duality.\n\nThe dimensions \"h\" of spaces of harmonic (\"p\",\"q\")-differential forms (equivalently, the cohomology, i.e., closed forms modulo exact forms) are conventionally arranged in a diamond shape called the \"Hodge Diamond\". These (p,q)-betti numbers can be computed for complete intersections using a generating function described by Friedrich Hirzebruch. For a three-dimensional manifold, for example, the Hodge diamond has \"p\" and \"q\" ranging from 0 to 3:\n\nMirror symmetry translates the dimension number of the (p, q)-th differential form \"h\" for the original manifold into \"h\" of that for the counter pair manifold. Namely, for any Calabi–Yau manifold the Hodge diamond is unchanged by a rotation by π radians and the Hodge diamonds of mirror Calabi–Yau manifolds are related by a rotation by π/2 radians.\n\nIn the case of an elliptic curve, which is viewed as a 1-dimensional Calabi–Yau manifold, the Hodge diamond is especially simple: it is the following figure.\n\nIn the case of a K3 surface, which is viewed as 2-dimensional Calabi–Yau manifold, since the Betti numbers are {1, 0, 22, 0, 1}, their Hodge diamond is the following figure.\n\nIn the 3-dimensional case, in usual called Calabi–Yau manifold, a very interesting thing happens. There are sometimes mirror pairs, say \"M\" and \"W\", that have symmetric Hodge diamonds each other along diagonal straight line.\n\n\"M\"'s diamond:\n\n\"W\"'s diamond:\n\n\"M\" and \"W\" correspond to A- and B-model in string theory. Mirror symmetry does not only replace the homological dimensions but also symplectic structure and complex structure on the mirror pairs. That is the origin of homological mirror symmetry.\n\nIn 1990-1991, had a major impact not only on enumerative algebraic geometry but on the whole mathematics and motivated . The mirror pair of two quintic threefolds in this paper have the following Hodge diamonds.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2164887", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2164887", "title": "A1 Team India", "text": "A1 Team India\n\nA1 Team India is the Indian team of A1 Grand Prix, an international racing series.\n\nThe seatholder for Team India is former Formula One driver Narain Karthikeyan.\n\nArgo racing Cars Ltd. are the Technical Servicer Provider for A1 Team India in Season 4. The UK based team was founded by David Sears and is best known for competing in GP2, and many other single-seater championships. David Sears’ experience lies not only in single-seaters, but in almost all other forms of motorsport. He is considered one of the most widely experienced team principals in recent decades.\n\nGordon Flynn is the team manager, and Greg Wheeler is the team's race engineer.\n\nYohann Setna has been involved with A1 Team India since the first season and stands as Sporting Director this year.\n\nThe inaugural A1 Team India car was presented to the public in July 2005. The team did not take part in the full first season, with their last race in Indonesia. They failed to score any points.\n\nIn 2006-07, the team only scored points on three occasions, scoring 13 points total. The 2007–08 season was a much greater success than the previous two seasons. Narain Karthikeyan scored 61 points for the team, as well as two victories.\n\nDespite missing the opening race of the 2008–09 season due to lack of available cars, Team India managed to score a podium in the final Sprint race of the season, en route to scoring 19 points.\n\n(), \"spr\" indicates the Sprint Race, \"fea\" indicates the Feature Race.\n\n"}
{"id": "2164898", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2164898", "title": "A1 Team Lebanon", "text": "A1 Team Lebanon\n\nA1 Team Lebanon was the Lebanese team of A1 Grand Prix, a former international racing series.\n\nA1 Team Lebanon's owner is Tameem Auchi.\n\nDaniel Morad became the race driver for A1 Team Lebanon for the 2008-09 season. Although having previously driven in rookie sessions for A1 Team Canada, his Canadian-Lebanese heritage allowed him to switch nationalities, as he had not yet made his race debut. Morad scored Team Lebanon's first ever points in four years in the series at the first weekend of the season at Zandvoort, finishing in 8th place in the Feature Race.\n\nIn 2007 several Lebanese fans reacted disappointedly to the decision to drop Beschir, and set up an online petition calling on the team to reinstate him as lead driver.\n\n(), \"spr\" indicates the Sprint Race, \"fea\" indicates the Feature Race.\n"}
{"id": "2164899", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2164899", "title": "Council on Books in Wartime", "text": "Council on Books in Wartime\n\nThe Council on Books in Wartime (1942–1946) was an American non-profit organization founded by booksellers, publishers, librarians, authors, and others, in the spring of 1942 to channel the use of books as \"weapons in the war of ideas\" (the Council's motto). Its primary aim was the promotion of books to influence the thinking of the American people regarding World War II, to build and maintain the will to win, to expose the true nature of the enemy, to disseminate technical information, to provide relaxation and inspiration, and to clarify war aims and problems of peace. The Council co-operated with the Office of War Information (OWI) and other government agencies, but was itself a voluntary, unpaid, non-governmental organization.\n\nThe Council attempted to achieve its goals by acting as a clearinghouse for book-related ideas, by being an intermediary between the book-trade industry and government agencies, by offering advice to publishers, and by handling all forms of public relations including distribution of reading lists and pamphlets, lectures, radio programs, newsreels, and book promotion and publication.\n\nIn 1942, the Council created a War Book Panel to choose titles officially recommended by the Council. These titles were republished by Council member publishers with a seal of approval, a large \"I\" on the front cover meaning an \"Imperative\" book. Six \"Imperative\" books were published between 1942 and 1945 (see War Book Panel).\n\nIn the spring of 1943, the Council launched the effort for which it would become best known, the Armed Services Editions. By the time the program ended in 1947, it had printed 122,951,031 books, selling them to the government at an average cost of just over six cents a volume. The Armed Services Editions brought high-end books to a mass audience, and helped popularize the emerging paperback format. One of the most popular ASE books was \"A Tree Grows in Brooklyn\" (1943) by Betty Smith, and the ASE's distribution of F. Scott Fitzgerald's novel \"The Great Gatsby\" helped revive interest in the book. In 1944, the Council launched Oversees Editions, Inc, a subsidiary aimed at distributing American books to civilian populations abroad, to promote a positive view of American culture.\n\nWith the end of World War II, the Council on Books in Wartime ceased active operations on Jan 31, 1946 but maintained its corporate entities to deal with the dispersal of remaining funds and the safekeeping of records.\n\nSome of those involved on the Council include: W. W. Norton of W. W. Norton & Company, Bennett Cerf of Random House, George A. Hecht of Doubleday & Co., and Mark Van Doren.\n\n"}
{"id": "2164906", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2164906", "title": "A1 Team Malaysia", "text": "A1 Team Malaysia\n\nA1 Team Malaysia is the Malaysian team of A1 Grand Prix, an international racing series.\n\nA1 Team Malaysia is operated by A1 Team (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd. The team was founded by Jack Cunningham, a Briton, and former Malaysian F1 driver Alex Yoong.\n\n\"Driver: Fairuz Fauzy, Aaron Lim\"\n\nFairuz Fauzy raced for A1 Team Malaysia in 6 of the 7 rounds of the 2008-09 season winning the Sprint race at Zandvoort while Aaron Lim participated in all the rookie sessions and raced at Brands Hatch. The team finished 6th overall that season.\n\n\"Drivers: Fairuz Fauzy, Alex Yoong\"\n\nIn comparison to previous seasons, Team Malaysia struggled. They finished 15th in the championship.\n\n\"Driver: Alex Yoong\"\n\nTeam Malaysia continued with their form from the previous season, taking three wins en route to 6th in the championship.\n\nAt the Czech Republic race, A1 Team Malaysia won the Sprint Race giving them pole position for the Feature Race. Driver Alex Yoong went on to win the Feature Race, gaining the fastest lap in the process, meaning A1 Team Malaysia came away with maximum points.\n\n\"Drivers: Fairuz Fauzy, Alex Yoong\"\n\nA1 Team Malaysia finished in 5th overall, with a win at Shanghai and 2 podium places.\n\nAlex Yoong while racing for the team, accumulated an A1GP series-record of 45 consecutive starts.\n\n(), \"spr\" indicate a Sprint Race, \"fea\" indicate a Main Race.\n\n"}
{"id": "2164907", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2164907", "title": "Polybutadiene", "text": "Polybutadiene\n\nPolybutadiene [butadiene rubber BR] is a synthetic rubber. Polybutadiene rubber is a polymer formed from the polymerization of the monomer 1,3-butadiene. Polybutadiene has a high resistance to wear and is used especially in the manufacture of tires, which consumes about 70% of the production. Another 25% is used as an additive to improve the toughness (impact resistance) of plastics such as polystyrene and acrylonitrile butadiene styrene (ABS). Polybutadiene rubber accounted for about a quarter of total global consumption of synthetic rubbers in 2012. It is also used to manufacture golf balls, various elastic objects and to coat or encapsulate electronic assemblies, offering high electrical resistivity.\n\nThe IUPAC refers to polybutadiene as: poly (buta-1,3-diene) as poly (buta-1,3-diene).\n\nBuna rubber is a term used to describe an early generation of synthetic polybutadiene rubber produced in Germany by Bayer using sodium as a catalyst.\n\nThe Russian chemist Sergei Vasilyevich Lebedev was the first to polymerize butadiene in 1910. In 1926 he invented a process for manufacturing butadiene from ethanol, and in 1928, developed a method for producing polybutadiene using sodium as a catalyst.\n\nThe government of the Soviet Union strived to use polybutadiene as an alternative to natural rubber and built the first pilot plant in 1930, using ethanol produced from potatoes. The experiment was a success and in 1936 the Soviet Union built the world's first polybutadiene plant in which the butadiene was obtained from petroleum. By 1940, the Soviet Union was by far the largest producer of polybutadiene with 50,000 tons per year.\n\nFollowing Lebedev's work, other industrialized countries such as Germany and the United States developed polybutadiene and SBR as an alternative to natural rubber.\n\nIn the mid-1950s there were major advances in the field of catalysts that led to the development of an improved versions of polybutadiene. The leading manufacturers of tires and some petrochemical companies began to build polybutadiene plants on all continents; the boom lasted until the 1973 oil crisis. Since then, the growth rate of the production has been more modest, focused mainly to the Far East.\n\nIn Germany, scientists from Bayer (at the time a part of the conglomerate IG Farben) reproduced Lebedev's processes of producing polybutadiene by using sodium as a catalyst. For this, they used the trade name Buna, derived from Bu for butadiene, Na for sodium (natrium in Latin, Natrium in German). They discovered that the addition of styrene to the process resulted in better properties, and thus opted for this route. They had invented styrene-butadiene, which was named Buna-S (S for styrene).\n\nAlthough the Goodrich Corporation had successfully developed a process for producing polybutadiene in 1939, the government of the United States opted for the use of Buna-S to develop its synthetic rubber industry after its entry into the World War II, using patents of IG Farben obtained via Standard Oil. Because of this, there was little industrial production of polybutadiene in America during this time.\n\nAfter the war, the production of synthetic rubber was in decline due to the decrease in demand when natural rubber was available again. However, interest was renewed in the mid-1950s after the discovery of the Ziegler–Natta catalyst. This method proved to be much better for tire manufacturing than the old sodium polybutadiene. The following year, Firestone Tire and Rubber Company was first to produce low \"cis\" polybutadiene using butyllithium as a catalyst.\n\nThe relatively high production costs were a hindrance to commercial development until 1960 when production on a commercial scale began. Tire manufacturers like Goodyear Tire and Rubber Company and Goodrich were the first to produce plants for high \"cis\" polybutadiene, this was followed by oil companies like Shell and chemical manufacturers such as Bayer.\n\nInitially, with plants built in the United States and France, Firestone enjoyed a monopoly on low \"cis\" polybutadiene, licensing it to plants in Japan and the United Kingdom. In 1965, the Japanese JSR Corporation developed its own low \"cis\" process and began licensing it during the next decade.\n\nThe 1973 oil crisis marked a halt to the growth of synthetic rubber production; the expansion of existing plants almost ceased for a few years. Since then, the construction of new plants have been mainly focused to industrializing countries in the Far East (such as South Korea, Taiwan, Thailand and China), while Western countries have chosen to increase the capacity of existing plants.\n\nIn 1987, Bayer started to use neodymium-based catalysts to catalyze polybutadiene. Soon thereafter other manufacturers deployed related technologies such as EniChem (1993) and Petroflex (2002).\n\nIn the early 2000s, the synthetic rubber industry was once again hit by one its periodic crises. The world's largest producer of polybutadiene, Bayer, went through major restructurings as they were troubled by financial losses; between 2002 and 2005 they closed its cobalt-polybutadiene plants in Sarnia (Canada) and Marl (Germany), transferring their production to neodymium plants in Port Jérôme (France) and Orange (USA). During the same time, the synthetic rubber business was transferred from Bayer to Lanxess, a company founded in 2004 when Bayer spun off its chemicals operations and parts of its polymer activities.\n\n1,3-Butadiene is an organic compound that is a simple conjugated diene hydrocarbon (dienes have two carbon-carbon double bonds). Polybutadiene forms by linking many 1,3-butadiene monomers to make a much longer polymer chain molecule. In terms of the connectivity of the polymer chain, butadiene can polymerize in three different ways, called \"cis\", \"trans\" and \"vinyl\". The cis and trans forms arise by connecting the butadiene molecules end-to-end, so-called 1,4-polymerisation. The properties of the resulting isomeric forms of polybutadiene differ. For example, \"high cis\"-polybutadiene has a high elasticity and is very popular, whereas the so-called \"high \"trans\"\" is a plastic crystal with few useful applications. The vinyl content of polybutadiene is typically no more than a few percent. In addition to these three kinds of connectivity, polybutadienes differ in terms of their branching and molecular weights.\n\nThe \"trans\" double bonds formed during polymerization allow the polymer chain to stay rather straight, allowing sections of polymer chains to align to form microcrystalline regions in the material. The \"cis\" double bonds cause a bend in the polymer chain, preventing polymer chains from aligning to form crystalline regions, which results in larger regions of amorphous polymer. It has been found that a substantial percentage of \"cis\" double bond configurations in the polymer will result in a material with flexible elastomer (rubber-like) qualities. In free radical polymerization, both \"cis\" and \"trans\" double bonds will form in percentages that depend on temperature. The catalysts influence the \"cis\" vs \"trans\" ratio.\n\nThe catalyst used in the production significantly affects the type of polybutadiene product.\n\nThis type is characterized by a high proportion of \"cis\" (typically over 92%) and a small proportion of vinyl (less than 4%). It is manufactured using Ziegler–Natta catalysts based on transition metals. Depending on the metal used, the properties vary slightly.\n\nUsing cobalt gives branched molecules, resulting in a low viscosity material that is easy to use, but its mechanical strength is relatively low. Neodymium gives the most linear structure (and therefore higher mechanical strength) and a higher percentage of 98% \"cis\". Other less-used catalysts include nickel and titanium.\n\nUsing an alkyllithium (e.g. butyllithium) as the catalyst produces a polybutadiene called \"low \"cis\"\" which typically contains 36% \"cis\", 59% \"trans\" and 10% vinyl.\n\nDespite its high liquid-glass transition, low \"cis\" polybutadiene is used in tire manufacturing and is blended with other tire polymers, also it can be advantageously used as an additive in plastics due to its low contents of gels.\n\nIn 1980, researchers from the Japanese company Zeon discovered that high-vinyl polybutadiene (over 70%), despite having a high liquid-glass transition, could be advantageously used in combination with high \"cis\" in tires. This material is produced with an alkyllithium catalyst.\n\nPolybutadiene can be produced with more than 90% \"trans\" using catalysts similar to those of high \"cis\": neodymium, lanthanum, nickel. This material is a plastic crystal (i.e. not an elastomer) which melts at about 80 °C. It was formerly used for the outer layer of golf balls. Today it is only used industrially, but companies like Ube are investigating other possible applications.\n\nThe use of metallocene catalysts to polymerize butadiene is being explored by Japanese researchers. The benefits seem to be a higher degree of control both in the distribution of molecular mass and the proportion of cis/trans/vinyl. As of 2006, no manufacturer produces \"metallocene polybutadiene\" on a commercial basis.\n\n1,3-butadiene is normally copolymerized with other types of monomers such as styrene and acrylonitrile to form rubbers or plastics with various qualities. The most common form is styrene-butadiene copolymer, which is a commodity material for car tires. It is also used in block copolymers and tough thermoplastics such as ABS plastic. This way a copolymer material can be made with good stiffness, hardness, and toughness.\nBecause the chains have a double bond in each and every repeat unit, the material is sensitive to ozone cracking.\n\nThe annual production of polybutadiene was 2.0 million tons in 2003. This makes it the second most produced synthetic rubber by volume, behind the styrene-butadiene rubber (SBR).\n\nThe production processes of high \"cis\" polybutadiene and low \"cis\" used to be quite different and were carried out in separate plants. Lately, the trend has changed to use a single plant to produce as many different types of rubber as possible, including, low \"cis\" polybutadiene, high \"cis\" (with neodymium used as a catalyst) and SBR.\n\nPolybutadiene rubber is seldom used alone, but is instead mixed with other rubbers. Polybutadiene is difficult to band in a two roll mixing mill. Instead, a thin sheet of polybutadiene may be prepared and kept separate. Then, after proper mastication of natural rubber, the polybutadiene rubber may be added to the two roll mixing mill. A similar practice may be adopted, for example, if polybutadiene is to be mixed with Styrene Butadiene Rubber (SBR). *Polybutadiene rubber may be added with Styrene as an impact modifier. High dosages may affect clarity of Styrene.\n\nIn an internal mixer, natural rubber and/or styrene-butadiene rubber may be placed first, followed by polybutadiene.\n\nThe plasticity of polybutadiene is not reduced by excessive mastication.\n\nThe annual production of polybutadiene is 2.1 million tons (2000). This makes it the second most produced synthetic rubber by volume, behind styrene-butadiene rubber (SBR).\n\nPolybutadiene is largely used in various parts of automobile tires; the manufacture of tires consumes about 70% of the world production of polybutadiene, with a majority of it being high \"cis\". The polybutadiene is used primarily in the sidewall of truck tires, this helps to improve fatigue to failure life due to the continuous flexing during run. As a result, tires will not blow out in extreme service conditions. It is also used in the tread portion of giant truck tires to improve the abrasion, i.e. less wearing, and to run the tire comparatively cool, since the internal heat comes out quickly. Both parts are formed by extrusion.\n\nIts main competitors in this application are styrene-butadiene rubber (SBR) and natural rubber. Polybutadiene has the advantage compared to SBR in its lower liquid-glass transition temperature, which gives it a high resistance to wear and a low rolling resistance. This gives the tires a long life and low fuel consumption. However, the lower transition temperature also lowers the friction on wet surfaces, which is why polybutadiene almost always is used in combination with any of the other two elastomers. About 1 kg of polybutadiene is used per tire in automobiles, and 3.3 kg in utility vehicles.\n\nAbout 25% of the produced polybutadiene is used to improve the mechanical properties of plastics, in particular of high-impact polystyrene (HIPS) and to a lesser extent acrylonitrile butadiene styrene (ABS). The addition of between 4 and 12% polybutadiene to polystyrene transforms it from a fragile and delicate material to a ductile and resistant one.\n\nThe quality of the process is more important in the use in plastics than in tires, especially when it comes to color and content of gels which have to be as low as possible. In addition, the products need to meet a list of health requirements due to its use in the food industry.\n\nMost golf balls are made of an elastic core of polybutadiene surrounded by a layer of a harder material. Polybutadiene is preferred to other elastomers due to its high resilience.\n\nThe core of the balls are formed by compression molding with chemical reactions. First, polybutadiene is mixed with additives, then extruded, pressed using a calender and cut into pieces which are placed in a mold. The mold is subjected to high pressure and high temperature for about 30 minutes, enough time to vulcanize the material.\n\nThe golf ball production consumes about 20,000 tonnes of polybutadiene per year (1999).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2164909", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2164909", "title": "Rush University Medical Center", "text": "Rush University Medical Center\n\nRush University Medical Center (Rush) is a nationally ranked academic medical center located in the Illinois Medical District neighborhood of Chicago, Illinois. It is the flagship location for the larger Rush University System for Health and serves as the primary teaching hospital in affiliation with Rush University.\n\nRush University Medical Center provides 664 patient beds at its 14-story, 830,000 square foot location on Chicago's Near West Side. The campus is known for its butterfly-shaped design both architecturally and strategically as its post-9/11 layout was intended to handle mass casualties. Rush offers more than 70 residency and fellowship programs in medical and surgical specialties and subspecialties. Rush is also the largest non-governmental employer on Chicago's Near West Side with nearly 10,000 employees and annual spending of over $550 million.\n\nIn 2019, \"U.S. News and World Report\" ranked Rush University Medicale Center the third-best hospital in both Chicago and Illinois behind Northwestern Memorial Hospital and University of Chicago Medical Center.\n\nRush Medical College was chartered in on March 2, 1837, two days before the city of Chicago was chartered. The college opened with 22 students on December 4, 1843. It was the first health care institution in Chicago and one of the few medical schools west of the Alleghenies. Its founder, Dr. Daniel Brainard, named the school in honor of Dr. Benjamin Rush, the only physician with medical school training to sign the Declaration of Independence and who would later teach Meriwether Lewis basic medical skills for his expedition with William Clark to the Pacific Northwest. The general hospital associated with the medical college would be the first in Chicago.\n\nThe early Rush faculty, well known across the American frontier for its expertise, engaged in patient care, research and teaching, and was associated with a number of scientific developments and new clinical procedures. As the city grew, so did Rush's involvement with other developing institutions: St. Luke's Hospital, established in 1864; Presbyterian Hospital, which was begun at the urging of the Rush faculty in 1883; and the University of Chicago, with which Rush Medical College was affiliated and later united from 1898 to 1942.\n\nIn the early 1940s, Rush discontinued undergraduate education, but its library was maintained and its faculty continued to teach at the University of Illinois School of Medicine. In 1969, Rush Medical College reactivated its charter and merged with Presbyterian-St. Luke's Hospital, which itself had been formed through merger in 1956, to form Rush-Presbyterian-St. Luke's Medical Center. Rush University, which now includes colleges of medicine, nursing, health sciences and research training, was established in 1972. The Medical Center officially changed its name in September 2003 to Rush University Medical Center, to reflect the important role education and research play in its patient care mission.\n\nToday, Rush is a center for basic and clinical research, with physicians and scientists involved in hundreds of research projects developing and testing the effectiveness and safety of new therapies and medical devices. The Robert H. Cohn and Terri Cohn Research Building is a state-of-the-art facility where investigators are conducting research to identify the causes of a wide range of diseases. Rush is investing over a billion dollars in the Rush Transformation, a comprehensive construction and renovation program that includes a 14-story inpatient care facility and advanced emergency response center (opened in 2012), a five-story ambulatory orthopedic building that opened in 2009, a seven-story parking garage, a central energy plant, an underground loading dock, and renovations to existing buildings.\n\nThe new East Tower hospital building would provide Rush with its first major new hospital facility in more than 25 years. The 14-level patient care tower houses acute and critical care patients, as well as surgical, diagnostic and therapeutic services utilizing the most advanced technology available. The new hospital would include expanded emergency services facilities including the Center for Advanced Emergency Response, a unique facility that would bring an unprecedented level of preparedness to Chicago and the region in the event of immediate and widespread emergencies such as pandemics or bioterrorism. The center is designed to have 40 exam rooms with “surge” capacity to treat additional patients in times of disaster. It is located on the ground floor of the new tower. \n\nThe new facility incorporates a concept called \"interventional platform,\" a design model developed in recent years for centers like Rush that increasingly involve multiple medical specialists to treat patients with highly complex illnesses using the most advanced technologies available. Two other academic medical centers constructing new inpatient facilities, UCLA Medical Center (Los Angeles) and Johns Hopkins Hospital Center (Baltimore), have or are incorporating the interventional platform concept into their new hospital buildings. The interventional platforms at Rush cover three floors devoting to surgery, imaging and specialty procedures. This includes new, larger operating rooms that can accommodate more specialized equipment and technology, including imaging equipment and robotics. Nearby, the facilities for interventional radiology, cardiology and neurosurgery, fostering more extensive collaboration between various medical disciplines. Locating these key services close to one another minimizes the need for patients and their families to travel to multiple locations in the medical center.\n\nThe top five floors of the east tower houses Rush's acute and critical patients, with each floor divided in half with two equal sections – or units – on either side. The 10th and 11th floors houses the hospital's adult critical care units, each floor having two 28-bed units. The remaining three floors are dedicated to acute care medical/surgical patients with two 32-bed areas on each level.\n\nThe design of the acute and critical care tower was created by doctors and nurses whose ideas about universal room design, standardization, efficiency and safety influenced the layout. They considered sight lines to rooms from the nursing station and the number of steps required to reach each room. Nursing stations are at the central core, allowing hospital staff to see into all the wings from one location. All patient rooms are standardized as either a medical surgical room or a critical care room, so that when caregivers enter any room in the new tower, they can able to quickly access supplies and equipment.\n\nAll patient rooms are private and offer family accommodations, such as daybeds for visitors. There are 376 beds in the new facility, and Rush will have a total of 720 beds in operation at the completion of the Transformation project.\n\nRush University Medical Center established the Road Home Program in 2014. The program focuses on mental health treatment for veterans suffering from posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD), traumatic brain injury (TBI) and related illnesses. In 2015, the Road Home Program was selected as a founding partner of Warrior Care Network, along with UCLA Health Operation Mend, Massachusetts General Hospital Home Base, Emory Healthcare Veterans Program and Wounded Warrior Project.\n\nIn 2019 \"U.S. News & World Report\" ranked Rush University Medical Center as tied for #3 in Illinois, #3 in Chicago metro area and one of the top hospitals in 9 different medical specialties nationally including: \n\nThe U.S. Department of Labor chose Rush University Medical Center to receive its prestigious 2007 Exemplary Voluntary Efforts (EVE) Award. The award recognizes federal contractors for exceptional efforts to increase employment opportunities for minorities, women, individuals with disabilities and veterans. Rush was one of only three organizations to receive the 2007 EVE award — along with Cornell University in Ithaca, New York and the Public Service Enterprise Group, a Newark, New Jersey utility company — out of 17 employers nationwide that the Department of Labor invited to submit application proposals. Rush is the first Chicago-area organization to receive the award in more than a decade.\n\nIn addition to its mission in patient care, education and research, Rush maintains a commitment to the community. Rush reaches out to the Chicago community through such offerings as the Rush Community Services Initiatives Program, an umbrella for several student-led outreach programs designed to address the social and health care needs of residents in neighboring communities. The Medical Center's community service efforts also include the Science and Math Excellence Network, a public-private partnership to improve the science and math skills of inner-city children through sponsorship of after-school science clubs, the construction of modern science labs in public elementary schools and other programs. The program serves nearly 50 elementary schools.\n\n"}
{"id": "2164913", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2164913", "title": "A1 Team Mexico", "text": "A1 Team Mexico\n\nA1 Team Mexico is the Mexican team of A1 Grand Prix, an international racing series.\n\n\"A1 Team Mexico\" owners are Juan Cortina and Julio Jáuregui.\n\nThe technical assistance was initially provided by DAMS in 2005-06. However, new regulations brought in for 2006-07 stated that a racing team could not work with more than two A1 Teams. As DAMS worked with A1 Team France and South Africa in 2006-07, Mexico created a bespoke race team named Teamex to replace DAMS. In 2007-08, the team was run by Team Craft, while Escuderia del Mediterraneo took over for 2008-09.\n\n\"Driver: Davíd Garza Pérez\"\n\n\"Drivers: Salvador Durán, Davíd Garza Pérez, Jorge Goeters, Michel Jourdain, Jr., David Martínez\"\n\nTeam Mexico were relatively uncompetitive in 2007-08. After scoring well in Zandvoort, the team only scored again twice, en route to 16th in the championship.\n\n\"Drivers: Salvador Durán, Juan Pablo Garcia, David Martínez, Sergio Pérez\"\n\nAgain, mixed fortunes for the Mexican team. Four podiums in the early season, but no points after Indonesia, left them in 10th position in the championship.\n\n\"Drivers: Luis Diaz, Salvador Durán, David Martínez\"\n\nMixed fortunes came over Team Mexico in the inaugural season. A clean sweep of the American rounds and three podiums, brought them to 10th place in the championship.\n\n(), \"spr\" indicate a Sprint Race, \"fea\" indicate a Main Race.\n\n"}
{"id": "2164914", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2164914", "title": "Phyllis Coates", "text": "Phyllis Coates\n\nPhyllis Coates (born Gypsie Ann Evarts Stell; January 15, 1927) is an American actress best known for her portrayal of reporter Lois Lane in the 1951 film \"Superman and the Mole Men\" and in the first season of the television series \"Adventures of Superman\".\n\nBorn in Wichita Falls, Texas, Coates was the daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Jack Stell. After graduating from high school in Wichita Falls, she went to Los Angeles, California, to study at UCLA. (Another source says that she \"attended Odessa High School in '42 and '43\". She did attend Odessa High in Texas. There is a newspaper article from the Odessa American which has her hosting a socialite event in Feb of 1943. She may have graduated from Hollywood High School after moving with her mother to Los Angeles.) Coates is listed (as Gypsy Stell) among the alumni of Los Angeles City College.\n\nOriginally billed as Gypsy Stell, Coates was allegedly discovered in 1943 by vaudeville comedian Ken Murray in a Hollywood and Vine restaurant from whom she learned comic timing. She subsequently appeared as a dancer and a comedienne in skits for ten months in \"Blackouts\", his \"racy\" (mildly risqué) variety show. Along with Murray and other comedians, the show included showgirls, tap dancers, bird acts and Marie Wilson as the stereotypical \"dumb blonde\". She later performed as one of Earl Carroll's showgirls at his Earl Carroll Theatre. In 1946, she toured with a USO production of \"Anything Goes\".\n\nOn July 13, 1944, she \"began her work with 20th Century Fox ... after receiving a seven year contract with option.\"\n\nCoates signed a movie contract with Warner Brothers extending from 1948 to 1956, and she co-starred with George O'Hanlon as the title character's wife in the studio's Joe McDoakes short-subject comedies. She acted in film serials including \"Jungle Drums of Africa\" (1953), \"Gunfighters of the Northwest\" (1953), and \"Panther Girl of the Kongo\" (1955). Her film career also included roles in \"Girls in Prison\" (1956), \"I Was a Teenage Frankenstein\" (1957), \"Blood Arrow\" (1958), \"Cattle Empire\" (1958), \"The Incredible Petrified World\" (1959), \"The Baby Maker\" (1970) and \"Goodnight, Sweet Marilyn\" (1989).\n\nIn 1952, she guest-starred with Brad Johnson in \"How Death Valley Got Its Name\", the first episode of the anthology series, \"Death Valley Days\", hosted by Stanley Andrews. She appeared in the 1954 \"Death Valley Days\" episode \"The Light On The Mountain\". She was cast as the widowed Mary in the 1959 episode, \"One in a Hundred.\" In that episode, Michael Forest played cavalryman Larry Brooks, who is escorting pioneers across peaceful Indian country. The party runs into a lack of water as Brooks becomes attracted to Mary. In a 1964 episode, \"The Left Hand Is Damned,\" hosted by Ronald Reagan, she portrayed the kind-hearted saloon singer Dora Hand of Dodge City, Kansas.\nShe was cast on \"The Lone Ranger\" in 1953, and then again on that popular series in 1955. Coates was cast in 1955 as Madge in the CBS sitcom \"Professional Father\". In 1955, she portrayed Medora De More in the two-part episode \"King of the Dakotas\" of the NBC western anthology series \"Frontier.\" In 1956, she was cast in the episode \"God in the Street\" of another anthology series, \"Crossroads\", based on the lives of American clergymen. That same year, she appeared in a second religious drama, \"This Is the Life\", as Betty in the episode \"I Killed Lieutenant Hartwell.\" She was also cast in 1956 as Marge in the episode \"Web Feet\" of the military drama \"Navy Log\". She guest-starred in David Janssen's crime drama \"Richard Diamond, Private Detective\". \n\nIn 1958, Coates played the mother, Clarissa Holliday, in all thirty-nine episodes of the 1958-1959 situation comedy, \"This Is Alice\". She made guest appearances in three episodes of \"Perry Mason\": \"The Case of the Black-Eyed Blonde\" in 1958, \"The Case of the Cowardly Lion\" in 1961, and in \"The Case of the Ice-Cold Hands\" in 1964. In 1961, she was cast as Elizabeth Gwynn in the episode \"The Little Fishes\" on CBS's \"Rawhide\". Coates guest-starred as well on three episodes of \"Gunsmoke\" between 1958 and 1964.\n\nCoates played a strong-willed Lois Lane in the first twenty-six episodes of \"Adventures of Superman\", in which she was given equal billing with George Reeves (insisted upon by Reeves), even for episodes in which she did not appear. Her powerful \"damsel in distress\" scream was used to good effect in several episodes. After shooting wrapped on the first season, the \"Superman\" producers suspended production until they found a national sponsor. When in 1953 it was possible to film more \"Superman\" episodes, Coates was already committed to another series. Noel Neill, who had played Lois Lane in two Columbia \"Superman\" serials, in 1948 and 1950, replaced Coates. With the death of Noel Neill on July 3, 2016, Coates became the last surviving regular cast member from the \"Adventures of Superman\" TV series.\n\nCoates's \"Superman\" fame has obscured the fact that she was one of Hollywood's most consistently employed actresses of the 1950s and '60s. She freelanced steadily, appearing in numerous low-budget features, many of them Westerns, as well as serials and a steady stream of TV appearances, both as a regular in several series and as a guest cast member in others. All this was in addition to the \"McDoakes\" shorts, in which she continued to appear until Warner Brothers discontinued the series in 1956. Arguably, her best-remembered films of the 1950s—perhaps owing to their being those in which she has a substantial role, and being among the few that have been preserved so that they are available today on home video—are \"Blues Busters\" with The Bowery Boys (in which she has a musical number); \"Panther Girl of the Kongo\", a jungle serial in which she starred; and \"I Was a Teenage Frankenstein\".\n\nIn the 1960s, when it became clear that \"Adventures of Superman\" would continue to enjoy great popularity in syndicated reruns, far beyond the end of its production in 1957, Coates—like many of the other supporting cast members such as Jack Larson (\"Jimmy Olsen\")—tried to distance herself from the \"Superman\" series, fearing it might limit her opportunities. By the mid 1960s, however, she had settled into a comfortable semi-retirement as a wife and homemaker after marrying Los Angeles family physician Howard Press in 1962. She resumed her career after their divorce in 1986, but in the period immediately before that divorce, her film and television appearances were infrequent. One notable role was that of the mother of the female lead in the 1970 film \"The Baby Maker\", directed by James Bridges, the lover and production partner of Jack Larson, who had remained Coates's good friend since they worked together on \"Adventures of Superman\".\n\nDespite her stated misgivings about being remembered only as Lois Lane after relaunching her career, Coates agreed to appear as Lois's mother in the first season finale of the 1990s television series \"\". Noel Neill, who also played Lois Lane in film and TV series, had already been Lois's mother in the 1978 film \"Superman\". Since then, it has become a tradition in Superman adaptations for actresses who have previously played Lois Lane to later play Lois's mother. Teri Hatcher, who played Lois in \"Lois & Clark: The New Adventures of Superman\", made an appearance in the tenth season of the series Smallville as Lois's mother, Ella Lane.\n\nCoates married director Richard L. Bare in 1948. They divorced in January 1949. She married jazz pianist Robert Nelms in 1950, gave birth to a daughter, and divorced in 1953. Coates married director Norman Tokar in 1955 and gave birth to a son in 1957. She was married to Dr. Howard Press from 1962 to 1986, during which time she gave birth to another daughter.\n"}
{"id": "2164917", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2164917", "title": "A1 Team Netherlands", "text": "A1 Team Netherlands\n\nA1 Team Netherlands was the Dutch team of A1 Grand Prix, an international racing series.\n\nA1 Team Netherlands' owner was former Formula One driver and Le Mans winner Jan Lammers. The team was managed by Lammers's racing team Racing for Holland, notable for their participation in the 24 hours of Le Mans and FIA sportscars series.\n\nThe 2005-06 season had a difficult start for Team Netherlands. In the first two sprint races the car was hit in the first turn on both the Brands Hatch and EuroSpeedway circuits. Despite these setbacks, Jos Verstappen showed impressive overtaking action in the main races moving from the back of the grid to the seventh position. The season continued with average results, with 4th up to 19th positions as end results.\n\nThe street circuit of Durban, South Africa brought the first victory for A1 Team Netherlands as in the last turn of the main race, Jos Verstappen managed to take the lead from the Swiss car. A similar manoeuvre that failed during the sprint race forced Verstappen to start from the 16th place on the grid.\n\nIn 2006-07 Team Netherlands finished 5th in the championship, with one victory.\n\nIn 2007-08 Team Netherlands finished 7th in the championship, with 2 podiums.\n\nFor the 2008-09 season Jeroen Bleekemolen returned as a driver, alongside A1GP rookie Robert Doornbos. Both drivers alternated races, starting with Bleekemolen at Zandvoort. Team Netherlands finished 4th in the championship, with both drivers having scored one victory in a sprint race.\n\n"}
{"id": "2164925", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2164925", "title": "Uniform Transfers to Minors Act", "text": "Uniform Transfers to Minors Act\n\nThe Uniform Transfers To Minors Act (UTMA) is a uniform act drafted and recommended by the National Conference of Commissioners on Uniform State Laws in 1986, and subsequently enacted by most U.S. States, which provides a mechanism under which gifts can be made to a minor without requiring the presence of an appointed guardian for the minor, and which satisfies the Internal Revenue Service requirements for qualifying a gift of up to $14,000 for exclusion from the gift tax. It is a more flexible extension of the Uniform Gifts to Minors Act (UGMA), and allows the gifts to be real estate, inheritances, and other property.\n\nThe Act allows the donor of the gift to transfer title to a custodian who will manage and invest the property until the minor reaches a certain age. The age is generally 21, but is different in some states (usually 18 in those cases). In 2015 Florida passed a statute allowing the account to remain with the custodian until age 25 if desired. In the interim, the custodian can also make payments for the benefit of the minor out of the corpus of the gift. \n\nThe donor can serve as a custodian, rather than transferring the property to someone else to hold for the minor. However, the value of custodianship property is included in a donor’s gross estate if the donor dies while serving as the custodian.\n"}
{"id": "2164931", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2164931", "title": "A1 Team New Zealand", "text": "A1 Team New Zealand\n\nA1 Team New Zealand is the New Zealand team of A1 Grand Prix, an international racing series.\n\nThe team was formed by and is owned by prominent Auckland businessman Colin Giltrap, well known for this car dealerships. The team is managed by Kiwi Bob McMurray who retired last year after nearly 30 years involvement with the McLaren Formula One racing team. The car is run by David Sears' organisation, Super Nova Racing, as is the A1 Team Germany car, meaning that the two teams are often thought of as one. Prior to Super Nova's involvement, the car was run by West Surrey Racing, a British organisation run by New Zealander Dick Bennetts which fields the Team RAC cars in the British Touring Car Championship.\n\n\"Driver: Earl Bamber\", Chris van der Drift\n\nTeam New Zealand shocked the A1 paddock by revealing 18-year-old Earl Bamber as their main driver for the race in Zandvoort, even after the success of Jonny Reid in previous seasons. Bamber however, went on to record two podium finishes at a rain-soaked Zandvoort. However, van der Drift had less success in Chengdu, China, only scoring two points in the Sprint Race and just missed out on points in the Feature Race.\n\n\"Driver: Jonny Reid\"\n\nAgain, Team New Zealand challenged for the championship, but lost out at Great Britain to Switzerland. The team recorded 4 victories and 2 podiums.\n\n\"Drivers: Matt Halliday, Jonny Reid\"\n\nTeam New Zealand were championship challengers this season, but even with 3 victories and 8 podiums, lost out by 35 points to Germany.\n\n\"Drivers: Matt Halliday, Jonny Reid\"\n\nIn the inaugural season, Team New Zealand scored consistently, as well as a podium, to finish 4th in the championship.\n\n(), \"spr\" indicate a Sprint Race, \"fea\" indicate a Main Race.\n\n"}
{"id": "2164937", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2164937", "title": "Lerkendal Stadion", "text": "Lerkendal Stadion\n\nThe Lerkendal Stadion () is an all-seater football stadium located at Lerkendal in Trondheim, Norway. The home ground of the Eliteserien (2017) side Rosenborg BK, it has a capacity for 21,405 spectators, making it the second-largest football stadium in the country.\n\nLerkendal opened as a multi-purpose stadium on 10 August 1947, as the main football and athletics stadium in Trondheim. Originally the venue was mostly used by the football teams SK Freidig and FK Kvik, and Rosenborg did not became a tenant until 1957. A new grandstand with roof was completed in 1962, and floodlights were installed in 1968. The oldest of the current stands were built in 1996, along with new lighting. Three more grandstands were built between 2000 and 2002, which also saw the removal of the athletics facilities and the sale of the stadium from Trondheim Municipality to Rosenborg. Further expansions plans have been launched, to increase capacity by filling in the corners and possibly by building a retractable roof.\n\nThe record attendance of 28,569 dates from the decisive league match against Lillestrøm in 1985. Ten international matches were held at Lerkendal between 1951 and 1990. One domestic cup final has been held at Lerkendal; the Women's Cup Final in 1986.\n\nConstruction of Lerkendal started as a public works during the 1930s, as a measure to create jobs. It opened on 10 August 1947, and consisted of a main grass field, two gravel fields, two handball courts and two tennis courts. The main field had a spectator capacity for 37,000 on temporary stands, making it the second-largest stadium in the country. The long sides consisted of temporary wooden stands, with seating on the south stand and standing places on terraces on the north stand. The end sides of the stadium consisted of grass embankments at a 30 percent angle, allowing for standing space for spectators without having to build stands. Changing rooms were located in a nearby German-built barracks dating from the Second World War.\n\nThe first major rebuilding of the venue took place ahead of the 1962 season, when the wooden stands were torn and replaced with concrete stands on both long sides. On the south side, a wave-shaped roof was built; originally designed to be self-supporting, the contractor, Reinertsen, did not trust their own calculations and made a last-minute decision to install support columns. The new stands were taken into use on 3 May 1962. Floodlighting was installed in 1968 to allow UEFA club tournament matches to be held at the venue. An all-weather running track was subsequently also laid. On 1 December 1988, Lerkendal Station opened, allowing train passengers a short walk to the stadium. In 1994, the first pitch with Desso GrassMaster was laid.\nBy the time Rosenborg had qualified for the 1995–96 UEFA Champions League, UEFA had for security reasons introduced restrictions which reduced Lerkendal's capacity to 12,200 spectators. In addition, a total ban on standing places would be introduced from 1997. In 1995, a debate arose between Rosenborg and Trondheim Municipality regarding the construction of a new grandstand, to be located on the north side of the stadium. Rosenborg's Nils Skutle stated that if it was not built ahead of the 1997–98 season, Rosenborg would only be allowed to sell 2,800 tickets to their home Champions League matches, and that they instead would be forced to play their games at Ullevaal Stadion in Oslo. The new grandstand cost 32 million, and opened in 1996 season. The upgrades also included a new floodlight and public announcement system.\n\nRosenborg started laying plans for further construction, at first looking at construction of a new grandstand on the east end. In May 1998, Lerkendal Eiendom AS, owned 44% by Rosenborg, was established to build three new grandstands, including removing the running track to make it a football-only stadium. An alternative was to move and build an all-new stadium at Ranheim. Following the announcement of the Ranheim plans, Mayor Anne Kathrine Slungård stated that she did not want to sell Lerkendal, as she wanted public ownership of cultural infrastructure. In April 1999, Trondheim Municipality's chief of administration, Knut Sæther, recommended that the municipality sell Lerkendal to Rosenborg, who would then along with private investors be free to construct the necessary facilities. At the time, the municipality estimated the value of Lerkendal to between NOK 50 and 100 million. The football district stated they were in favor of conversion of Lerkendal, and that they feared that if Rosenborg moved Lerkendal would incur high costs on the municipality, giving Granåsen as an example of a little used skiing facility which used half the municipal funding for sports venues.\nOn 5 October 1999, the club and the municipality signed a letter of intent which indicated that the two would cooperate constructing a new venue along with private investors. The final contract was made with Reinertsen on 20 April 2000, and other involved investors included Fokus Bank, Gjensidige NOR, I. K. Lykke, Eiendomspar, Siemens and Trondheims Næringsbygg. The club received a 47% share of the stadium company, while the municipality received 14% in exchange for the company taking over the ownership of the land and existing structure. As compensation for losing Lerkendal as an athletics venue, the municipality spent NOK 32 million upgrading Øya stadion as the city's new main athletics stadium. NOK 20 million was financed by Rosenborg, while the remainder was spent using public funds.\n\nConstruction of the end stands started in January 2001, and they were completed in November. The demolition of the 1962 stand started on 24 October 2001, and the new stand was completed on 30 September 2002. The cost of constructing the new Lerkendal, including all four stands from 1996 to 2002, was NOK 335 million, of which NOK 253 million was for the 2001 and 2002 work. To give optimal conditions for the turf, the corners were not built out and the south stand was built with a transparent roof. However, the harsh climate forced the turf to be replaced two years later. In a 2012 survey carried out by the Norwegian Players' Association among away-team captains, Lerkendal was found to be the league's second-best stadium, with a score of 4,40 on a scale from one to five.\n\nLerkendal Stadion consists of four, three-tier grandstand without corners. The stadium has a capacity for 21,405 spectators, of which 1,338 are in club seating and luxury boxes on the center tier of all four stands. The Hent Stand on the north side of the pitch, built in 1996, is the largest and the only to have red seats. It holds a capacity of 7,457 spectators. Originally named the Adidas Stand, it was renamed before the 2013-season. Opposite lies the EiendomsMegler1 Stand, which was completed in 2002. In addition to change rooms and an honor stand, it has a capacity for 6,194 spectators. The Rema Stand to the west, opened in 2001, houses the supporter shop, a pizza restaurant and commercial offices. The upper tier has since its opening been used as a family tier. While the lower tier was used by Kjernen, Rosenborg's singing supporters. Since Kjernen in 2009 moved to the upper tier of the opposite Adressa Stand, the whole Rema Stand has been used as a family stand. The Adressa Stand opened at the same time, and both have a seating capacity for 3,810 people. The latter hosts office space for Rosenborg Arena and the football district, as well as change rooms for the training pitch. The upper tier is used by Kjernen, Rosenborg's supporter club. The lower tier was earlier used by the away fans. But after Kjernen's move to the upper tier, the away fans was moved to the western end of the Hent stand. The pitch has Desso GrassMaster, a natural grass pitch with artificial fibers sown in for increase strength. This includes an automatic watering system and a built-in heating below the surface.\n\nThe stadium is part of Lerkendal idrettspark, which also consists of three training pitches, two in full size and of which one has artificial turf. The main training pitch is the natural grass Skoglunden, while the artificial turf venue is Lerkendal kunstgress. The two pitches both have flood lighting, heating and are often used for matches by Rosenborg's recruit and reserve teams. The team has a health club located within the south stand. The club's offices are located in Brakka, a German-built barracks dating from World War II.\n\nThe stadium is located at Lerkendal, south of the city center. It is located on the southern main road into town, with good bus service. In addition, it is located next to Lerkendal Station, the southern terminus of the Trøndelag Commuter Rail. Parking near the stadium is very limited, and ad-hoc park and ride are established on matchdays at Stavset and City Syd.\n\nThe venue was opened with a friendly football match between the Trondheim city team and the Vestfold county team, which Trondheim won 4–3. The opening, attended by 8,000 spectators, also saw several track and field events. The original main football tenants were SK Freidig and FK Kvik. The latter played in the Main League in 1951–52 and 1955–56, and otherwise remained in the Second Division throughout most of the 1950s and 60s. A record 18,000 spectators watched Freidig lose the 1948 Norwegian Football Cup semifinal against Viking. On 18 October 1950, Lerkendal hosted a friendly between Kvik and Spartak Moscow.\n\nLerkendal hosted its first international on 26 June 1951, when Norway beat Iceland 3–1. On 28 August 1953 it hosted a B international game against Finland. Later national games consist of 5–0 against Malta on 3 July 1962, 2–0 against Finland on 20 August 1964, 4–2 against Luxembourg on 27 May 1965, with the record international audience of 22,319, 2–1 against Iceland on 21 July 1969, 0–1 against Denmark on 23 September 1973, 2–0 against West Germany on 26 September 1979, 1–0 against Wales on 6 June 1984, 1–0 against Bulgaria on 26 May 1987. and 1–2 against Denmark on 6 June 1990, The Football Association of Norway no longer plays international matches elsewhere than Ullevaal Stadion because of the conditions in its sponsorship agreements. On 26 May 1977, the Norway national under-21 football team lost 2–3 against Sweden at Lerkendal.\n\nRosenborg took Lerkendal into use from the 1957–58 season, when they were promoted to the Regional League. The season ended in relegation and Rosenborg played the following season at their old home ground, Rosenborgbanen. With the promotion ahead of the 1959–60 season, Rosenborg returned to Lerkendal and have remained there since. In 1959, Lerkendal was the venue of a neutral quarter final in the cup between Nessegutten from Levanger and Viking, which attracted 25,043 spectators, mostly from Innherred, setting a new stadium record. From the 1960–61 season, Rosenborg established itself in the Main League.\nThe opening game of the new stands on 3 May 1962 was a Rosenborg friendly against Dunfermline Athletic. Freidig moved to Eberg idrettsanlegg when it was completed ahead of the 1965 season. A new stadium spectator record was set in the cup semifinal against Brann in 1967, which was watched by 25,551 people. Rosenborg qualified for the 1968–69 European Cup and met SK Rapid Wien in the first round. The game was spectated by 22,492 and remains the record for UEFA tournaments. Per-season average attendance for Rosenborg's league matches lay between five and ten thousand people during the 1970s and early 1980s, with an all-time low of 2,549 in 1978, when Rosenborg played in the Second Division. The venue hosted the Norwegian Athletics Championships four times, in 1963, 1967, 1973 and 1983. Lerkendal hosted the Women's Cup Final in 1986, where Sprint-Jeløy beat Trondheims-Ørn. Strindheim IL played in the top division in 1984 and 1995, both times playing their home games at Lerkendal. Kvik remained at Lerkendal until the upgrades started in 2000, after which they moved to Øya stadion. Bodø/Glimt played their home game in the 1999–2000 UEFA Cup against Werder Bremen at Lerkendal, attracting 1,425 spectators.\n\nThe official all-time record at Lerkendal is the final game of the 1985 season, when Rosenborg won the league in the last game against Lillestrøm in a league final which attracted 28,569. Starting with Rosenborg's success in the late 1980s, attendance rose and lay between eleven and thirteen thousand until 2001. After the opening of the new stadium in 2002, attendance again rose, peaking at an average 19,903 in 2007, although it has fallen somewhat since. The high of most seasons is the 16 May game held every year: the 1994 edition against Tromsø saw 27,661 spectators, and in 1985 as many as 30,000 may have seen the game, as the gates were opened. Since the opening of the current stadium, the attendance record is 22,330, set in the 2006 edition against Odd Grenland. Between 1995 and 2007, Rosenborg played 11 seasons and 37 home matches in UEFA Champions League. The venue has been used for numerous concerts, including A-ha, Iron Maiden and Kiss.\n\nAhead of the failed Nordic bid to host the Euro 2008, Lerkendal was, along with Ullevaal Stadion, proposed as Norwegian venues. To reach the required spectator capacity of 30,000 seats, the plans called for the roof of the Adidas stand to be removed to allow for a temporary third tier. Additional seating would be created by adding a single row at the bottom of the four stands, and building capacity in the corners. The proposal would have given a spectator capacity of 30,849, although it would have been reduced after the championship by removing the extra tier. Similar plans were launched for the Norwegian–Swedish bid for Euro 2016, where the cost of the stadium upgrades was estimated at NOK 800 million. In 2007, the club management stated that they wanted to sell out all matches before they made further expansions to the stadium, independent of the plans to host the Euro. Construction of stands in the corners could give 4,000 additional seats, although these would be the most costly to build and at the same time give the worst view of the pitch. Construction could be done by first building two of the corners. Since then, Rosenborg has experienced a significant drop in attendance. The failed Trondheim bid for the 2018 Winter Olympics, launched in 2007, called for Lerkendal to be the Olympic Stadium and host the opening and closing ceremonies.\n\nRosenborg had originally planned to build additional commercial facilities and a tower hotel during the 2002 construction, but this was canceled. At the 2011 annual meeting, the plans were again launched by Skutle, who stated that construction might start as early as 2011. In March 2005, Rosenborg announced plans to build a retractable roof over the pitch and lay artificial turf. The roof was estimated to cost NOK 100 million, and the club estimated that it could generate NOK 30 million per year in increased revenue from concerts and events. By 2007, the roof plans were delayed, with management stating that it would be necessary to complete the construction of all stands before a roof was built, and that they believed the stadium would soon be expanded.\n\nOn 19 September 2014, Lerkendal was awarded the right to host the 2016 UEFA Super Cup, marking the first time a Norwegian stadium would host a European final.\n\n"}
{"id": "2164938", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2164938", "title": "Division of Paterson", "text": "Division of Paterson\n\nThe Division of Paterson is an Australian electoral division in the state of New South Wales. It is located just north of Newcastle, on the coast of the Tasman Sea. The division is named after federation-era poet and author Banjo Paterson and was originally created in 1949 and abolished in 1984. It was recreated after a redistribution in 1992.\n\nThe division is centred on the lower Hunter Valley and the outer suburbs of Greater Newcastle. It includes the city of Maitland and the towns of Kurri Kurri, Nelson Bay, Raymond Terrace and Salamander Bay. It covers most of the Port Stephens, and Maitland local government areas along with a small outer part of the City of Newcastle and parts of the northern end of the City of Cessnock.\n\nPaterson was first created at the redistribution of 11 May 1949. It was named after Banjo Paterson although there is conjecture that it was originally named after Colonel William Paterson who also gave his name to the Paterson River and the town of Paterson, both of which were situated within the electorate. It was first contested at the 1949 election. At the time it included the towns of Singleton, Maitland and Muswellbrook. Redistributions eventually moved the electorate north until it included Gunnedah and Mudgee. This incarnation was held by the conservative parties—Liberal and National—for its entire existence, and for most of that time was safely conservative. The original electorate was abolished at the 11 October 1984 redistribution.\n\nAt the redistribution of 31 January 1992 the electorate was recreated, covering a similar area to the original electorate. It extended from the lower Hunter Valley in the south to the Manning River in the north, and the Great Dividing Range in the west. It included the towns of Forster, Nelson Bay, Raymond Terrace and Paterson.\n\nIt was first contested at the 1993 federal election and was narrowly won by Bob Horne (Labor). After 1993 the seat was continuously exchanged between Horne and Liberal Bob Baldwin; the seat changed hands in 1996, in 1998 and again in 2001. During this period both Bobs became so well known that name recognition in the division was often in excess of 90% in private party polling.\n\nHorne did not contest the seat at the 2004 election at which Baldwin comfortably defeated a new Labor candidate, former Port Stephens councillor Giovanna Kozary, to retain the seat for the first time. At the 2007 election, Baldwin narrowly defeated new Labor candidate Jim Arneman, a Health Services Union organiser. Baldwin faced Arneman again in 2010 election and was reelected on a swing of four percent, garnering enough votes to win on the first count. At the 2013 election, Baldwin further consolidated his hold on the seat, again winning enough votes to win on the first count. His nearest competitor was Bay Marshall (Labor).\n\nIn 2015 the Australian Electoral Commission announced plans to abolish the federation seat of Hunter. Electors in the north of Hunter would have joined the safe National seat of New England. The roughly 40 percent remainder would have become part of Paterson, where the Liberal margin was to be notionally reduced from 9.8 percent to just 0.5 percent as a result.\n\nHowever, the new map saw Paterson radically reconfigured into a more compact coastal-based seat in the lower Hunter, covering only – only one-sixth of its previous territory. It also absorbed some territory previously in the Labor strongholds of Hunter and Newcastle. The new map completely erased the Liberal majority; on its new boundaries, it had a paper-thin notional Labor majority of 0.3 percent. Baldwin opted not to contest the 2016 election. ABC election analyst Antony Green wrote that even with the knife-edge notional Labor majority, the Liberals would have found it extremely difficult to hold the reconfigured Paterson. Not only had the Liberals lost Baldwin's personal vote, but the Liberals had been late in finding a replacement. The seat was won by the Labor candidate, Meryl Swanson, on a swing of over 10 percent, turning it into a safe Labor seat for the first time in its current incarnation.\n\n"}
{"id": "2164940", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2164940", "title": "A1 Team Pakistan", "text": "A1 Team Pakistan\n\nA1 Team Pakistan is the Pakistani team of A1 Grand Prix, an international racing series.\n\nIn 2008/2009 season, the team is being run by Team Craft, bringing a high level of knowledge and expertise to A1 Team Pakistan. \nPreviously, A1 Team Pakistan was run by Super Nova Racing and Performance Racing. In 2019, United Venture Holding acquired the team and terminate all the functions of it. \n\n\"Driver: Adam Khan\"\n\nThe 2008–09 season saw wholesale changes not just at A1GP but within Team Pakistan. On September 10, 2008 Adam Khan was announced to hold the dual-role of race driver, and seat holder of A1 Team Pakistan for the 2008-09 season. replacing Arif Hussain who had successfully established A1 Team Pakistan. Team Craft took over the running of the team. The team has not yet participated in the season as Adam Khan is too big for the new Ferrari built chassis.\n\nThe chassis was eventually built ahead of Round 5 in Gauteng, however Khan did not race for undisclosed reasons. He did not race in Round 6 either due to a date clash with his ING Renault F1 Team demonstration driver duties, and did not compete in the final round.\n\n\"Driver: Adam Khan\"\n\nA1 Team Pakistan allowed Khan to choose the racing team who would manage the car but despite this he was unable to change the fortunes of the struggling team. The team, selected by Khan, lacked the technical back up that other teams on the grid had, and were unable to do basics such as analysing lap data, holding Khan back. He was still able to pick up Team Pakistan’s one and only point of the season when he finished 10th in the sprint race in New Zealand.\n\n\"Driver: Nur B. Ali\"\n\nAdam Khan left the team, and Nur Ali was recalled to race for Team Pakistan in their second season. Performance Racing took over the running of the team. Ali struggled throughout the season where he was off the pace in nearly every race, but he was able to capture a point when he finished 10th in South Africa in the feature race.\n\n\"Drivers: Adam Khan, Enrico Toccacelo\"\n\nThe launch of A1 Team Pakistan was one of the most spectacular, with the A1 Grand Prix Car being presented in front of the Lahore Fort, a UNESCO World Heritage site. Pakistan's President Pervez Musharraf was the star guest at the event, hosted by A1 Team Pakistan Chairman Arif Hussain and its Managing Director, Chaudry Salik Hussain. The team was to be run by Super Nova Racing.\n\nNur B. Ali was the first driver to be named in A1GP and had shown good form during pre-season testing, but was replaced with British born Adam Khan.\n\nThe Season started well. In the first race at Brands Hatch, Adam Khan qualified in 7th place and finished the sprint race in 8th. The feature race saw problems in the pit stop and saw Khan finish in 13th. However, despite being managed by the highly successful Super Nova Racing, things went downhill from there and not a single point was scored, until South Africa where Khan crashed during practice forcing him out until the final rounds in China. Here he was able to finish 5th in the feature race which resulted in Pakistan scoring a total of 10 points.\n\nEnrico Toccacelo drove in South Africa for Team Pakistan as the team has already spent much time preparing for the race, also the management wished to not disappoint the Pakistani fans.\n\n Italian driver Enrico Toccacelo from A1 Team Italy, drove the Team Pakistan car in the 2005-06 South African race, after Adam Khan was injured during the practice sessions.\n\n(), \"spr\" indicate a Sprint Race, \"fea\" indicate a Main Race.\n\n"}
{"id": "2164954", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2164954", "title": "A1 Team South Africa", "text": "A1 Team South Africa\n\nA1 Team South Africa is the South African team of A1 Grand Prix, an international racing series.\n\nA1 Team South Africa's owner is Tokyo Sexwale. The Chief Executive Officer of the team is Dana Cooper and the technical and sporting manager is Mike Carroll. For the 2006-07 season South Africa have enlisted DAMS to run their car, the outfit which ran the French and Swiss teams to 1st and 2nd places in 2005-06.\n\n\"Driver: Adrian Zaugg\"\n\n\"Driver: Adrian Zaugg\"\n\nConsistent scoring, two victories, and two podiums brought Team South Africa 5th place in the championship.\n\n\"Drivers: Stephen Simpson, Shane Brewer, Adrian Zaugg\"\n\nTeam South Africa had mixed fortunes in 2006-07. A victory, a podium, and two high-placing results were offset by other bad results, and the team finished in 14th position.\n\n\"Drivers: Tomas Scheckter, Stephen Simpson\"\n\nIn the inaugural season, Team South Africa scored a podium en route to 17th place in the championship.\n\n(), \"spr\" indicate a Sprint Race, \"fea\" indicate a Main Race.\n"}
{"id": "2164976", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2164976", "title": "Dip-pen nanolithography", "text": "Dip-pen nanolithography\n\nDip pen nanolithography (DPN) is a scanning probe lithography technique where an atomic force microscope (AFM) tip is used to create patterns directly on a range of substances with a variety of inks. A common example of this technique is exemplified by the use of alkane thiolates to imprint onto a gold surface. This technique allows surface patterning on scales of under 100 nanometers. DPN is the nanotechnology analog of the dip pen (also called the quill pen), where the tip of an atomic force microscope cantilever acts as a \"pen,\" which is coated with a chemical compound or mixture acting as an \"ink,\" and put in contact with a substrate, the \"paper.\"\n\nDPN enables direct deposition of nanoscale materials onto a substrate in a flexible manner. Recent advances have demonstrated massively parallel patterning using two-dimensional arrays of 55,000 tips. Applications of this technology currently range through chemistry, materials science, and the life sciences, and include such work as ultra high density biological nanoarrays, and additive photomask repair.\n\nThe uncontrollable transfer of a molecular 'ink' from a coated AFM tip to a substrate was first reported by Jaschke and Butt in 1995, but they erroneously concluded that alkanethiols could not be transferred to gold substrates to form stable nanostructures. A research group at Northwestern University led by Chad Mirkin independently studied the process and determined that under the appropriate conditions, molecules could be transferred to a wide variety of surfaces to create stable chemically-adsorbed monolayers in a high resolution lithographic process they termed \"DPN\". Mirkin and his coworkers hold the patents on this process, and the patterning technique has expanded to include liquid \"inks\". It is important to note that \"liquid inks\" are governed by a very different deposition mechanism when compared to \"molecular inks\".\n\nMolecular inks are typically composed of small molecules that are coated onto a DPN tip and are delivered to the surface through a water meniscus. In order to coat the tips, one can either vapor coat the tip or dip the tips into a dilute solution containing the molecular ink. If one dip-coats the tips, the solvent must be removed prior to deposition. The deposition rate of a molecular ink is dependent on the diffusion rate of the molecule, which is different for each molecule. The size of the feature is controlled by the tip/surface dwell-time (ranging from milliseconds to seconds) and the size of the water meniscus, which is determined by the humidity conditions (assuming the tip's radius of curvature is much smaller than the meniscus). \n\n\nLiquid inks can be any material that is liquid at deposition conditions. The liquid deposition properties are determined by the interactions between the liquid and the tip, the liquid and the surface, and the viscosity of the liquid itself. These interactions limit the minimum feature size of the liquid ink to about 1 micrometre, depending on the contact angle of the liquid. Higher viscosities offer greater control over feature size and are desirable. Unlike molecular inks, it is possible to perform multiplexed depositions using a carrier liquid. For example, using a viscous buffer, it is possible to directly deposit multiple proteins simultaneously.\n\n\nIn order to define a good DPN application, it is important to understand what DPN can do that other techniques can't. Direct-write techniques, like contact printing, can pattern multiple biological materials but it cannot create features with subcellular resolution. Many high-resolution lithography methods can pattern at sub-micrometre resolution, but these require high-cost equipment that were not designed for biomolecule deposition and cell culture. Microcontact printing can print biomolecules at ambient conditions, but it cannot pattern multiple materials with nanoscale registry.\n\nThe following are some examples of how DPN is being applied to potential products. \n\n\nDPN is emerging as a powerful research tool for manipulating cells at subcellular resolution\n\n\nDPN is a direct write technique so it can be used for top-down and bottom-up lithography applications. In top-down work, the tips are used to deliver an etch resist to a surface, which is followed by a standard etching process. In bottom-up applications, the material of interest is delivered directly to the surface via the tips.\n\nA heated probe tip version of Dip Pen Lithography has also been demonstrated, thermal Dip Pen Lithography (tDPL), to deposit nanoparticles. Semiconductor, magnetic, metallic, or optically active nanoparticles can be written to a substrate via this method. The particles are suspended in a PMMA or equivalent polymer matrix, and heated by the probe tip until they begin to flow. The probe tip acts as a nano-pen, and can pattern nanoparticles into a programmed structure. Depending on the size of the nanoparticles, resolutions of 78-400 nm were attained. An O plasma etch can be used to remove the PMMA matrix, and in the case of Iron Oxide nanoparticles, further reduce the resolution of lines to 10 nm. Advantages unique to tDPL are that it is a maskless additive process that can achieve very narrow resolutions, it can also easily write many types of nanoparticles without requiring special solution preparation techniques. However there are limitations to this method. The nanoparticles must be smaller than the radius of gyration of the polymer, in the case of PMMA this is about 6 nm. Additionally, as nanoparticles increase in size viscosity increases, slowing the process. For a pure polymer deposition speeds of 200 μm/s are achievable. Adding nanoparticles reduces speeds to 2 μm/s, but is still faster than regular Dip Pen Lithography.\n\nA two dimensional array of (PDMS) deformable transparent pyramid shaped tips are coated with an opaque layer of metal. The metal is then removed from the very tip of the pyramid, leaving an aperture for light to pass through. The array is then scanned across a surface and light is directed to the base of each pyramid via a micromirror array, which funnels the light toward the tip. Depending on the distance between the tips and the surface, light interacts with the surface in a near-field or far-field fashion, allowing sub-diffraction scale features (100 nm features with 400 nm light) or larger features to be fabricated.\n\nThe criticism most often directed at DPN is the patterning speed. The reason for this has more to do with how it is compared to other techniques rather than any inherent weaknesses. For example, the soft lithography method, microcontact printing (μCP), is the current standard for low cost, bench-top micro and nanoscale patterning, so it is easy to understand why DPN is compared directly to microcontact printing. The problem is that the comparisons are usually based upon applications that are strongly suited to μCP, instead of comparing them to some neutral application. μCP has the ability to pattern one material over a large area in a single stamping step, just as photolithography can pattern over a large area in a single exposure. Of course DPN is slow when it is compared to the strength of another technique. DPN is a maskless direct write technique that can be used to create multiple patterns of varying size, shape, and feature resolution, all on a single substrate. No one would try to apply microcontact printing to such a project because then it would never be worth the time and money required to fabricate each master stamp for each new pattern. Even if they did, microcontact printing would not be capable of aligning multiple materials from multiple stamps with nanoscale registry. The best way to understand this misconception is to think about the different ways to apply photolithography and e-beam lithography. No one would try to use e-beam to solve a photolithography problem and then claim e-beam to be \"too slow\". Directly compared to photolithography's large area patterning capabilities, e-beam lithography is slow and yet, e-beam instruments can be found in every lab and nanofab in the world. The reason for this is because e-beam has unique capabilities that cannot be matched by photolithography, just as DPN has unique capabilities that cannot be matched by microcontact printing.\n\nDPN evolved directly from AFM so it is not a surprise that people often assume that any commercial AFM can perform DPN experiments. In fact, DPN does not require an AFM, and an AFM does not necessarily have real DPN capabilities. There is an excellent analogy with scanning electron microscopy (SEM) and electron beam (E-beam) lithography. E-beam evolved directly from SEM technology and both use a focused electron beam, but it is not possible to perform modern E-beam lithography experiments on a SEM that lacks the proper lithography hardware and software components.\n\nIt is also important to consider one of the unique characteristics of DPN, namely its force independence. With virtually all ink/substrate combinations, the same feature size will be patterned no matter how hard the tip is pressing down against the surface. As long as robust SiN tips are used, there is no need for complicated feedback electronics, no need for lasers, no need for quad photo-diodes, and no need for an AFM.\n"}
{"id": "2164980", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2164980", "title": "Anis Kachohi", "text": "Anis Kachohi\n\nAnis Kachohi (born 1977 in Pontoise, Val-d'Oise) is a French singer. He is also known as Anis.\n\nIn the spring of 2005, Anis released his first album \"Gadjo décalé\" with the studio \"Gang\" in Paris. The album contained autobiographical and sober lyrics. The music is a mix of his soul, reggae, and blues influences.\n\nThe television station \"France 2\" picked him as the Singer of the Summer in 2007; the channel showed regularly videos of \"Cergy\", \"Intégration\", and \"Avec le Vent\". In 2005 he followed up with the album \"La Chance\" on Virgin/EMI.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2164985", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2164985", "title": "Orlik Aerobatic Team", "text": "Orlik Aerobatic Team\n\nOrlik Aerobatic Team (\"Zespół Akrobacyjny \"ORLIK\"\") is the aerobatic team of the Polish Air Force, formed in 1998 at the Polish Air Force Command College. Its first performance took place on April 15 1998, with its first foreign performance shortly later at the 1998 Royal International Air Tattoo at RAF Fairford. The team initially consisted of four pilots, with three formation pilots and one solo. Another solo pilot was added later on and at the end of 2000 the team increased to seven aircraft. Though it has also flown some seasons with nine aircraft, since 2011 the team flies seven aircraft.\n\nThe team receives its name from the aircraft it flies, the PZL-130 Orlik.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2164993", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2164993", "title": "Ball Park Franks", "text": "Ball Park Franks\n\nBall Park Franks is a brand of hot dogs made by Tyson Foods and popularized in 1958 by the Detroit Tigers of Major League Baseball. Ball Park Frank is the most consumed hot dog in America with 94.9 million consumers in 2017.\n\nThe history of Ball Park Franks began in 1958 when the Detroit Tigers became dissatisfied with the hot dogs being sold in their park. In 1959, a meat-packing company from Livonia, Michigan called Hygrade Food Products owned and run by the Slotkin family, won a competition to be the exclusive supplier of hot dogs to the Tigers and Tiger Stadium. Hygrade employee Gus Hauff invented the recipe for the Ball Park Frank in 1958, which to this day remains a secret. Meanwhile, Hygrade launched a contest for its employees in order to come up with the best brand name for their stadium hot dogs, which was won by saleswoman Mary Ann Kurk, with the name \"Ball Park Franks\".\n\nAfter becoming the official hot dog of the Detroit Tigers, and the official Briggs Stadium hot dog, Ball Park Franks went on sale commercially. \n\nIn 1985, Cincinnati schoolteacher Bob Wood visited every major league park, rating each on its hot dogs. In his book, \"Dodger Dogs to Fenway Franks: and All the Wieners in Between\", Wood ranked the Ball Park Frank at #1, citing that “A Ballpark Frank with a little mustard on the side is a dream fulfilled, and proof that worthy experiences never die in the tradition of a fine baseball park.”\n\nIn 2008 Ball Park added numerous varieties to their hot dog lineup, perhaps in response to the healthier eating trend sweeping through the United States throughout the early 2000s.\n\nSara Lee acquired Hygrade from Hanson Industries in 1989. In 2014, Tyson Foods acquired Hillshire Brands, the corporation formerly known as the Sara Lee Corporation, and with it, the Ball Park Franks brand.<br>\n\nBall Park franks currently come in the following varieties:\n\n\nOfficial website\n"}
{"id": "2165000", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165000", "title": "Morgan Murphy Media", "text": "Morgan Murphy Media\n\nThe Evening Telegram Company, d/b/a Morgan Murphy Media, is a television and radio chain based out of Madison, Wisconsin. It is named for publisher Morgan Murphy, who expanded the business after he took over from his grandfather, who founded the \"Superior Evening Telegram\" (now owned by Forum Communications). \n\nThe company was originally known as Morgan Murphy Stations until 2007, when its operating name was slightly changed to Morgan Murphy Media. \n\nOn May 10, 2017, the company announced that it would acquire Saga Communications' television clusters in Joplin, Missouri, including KOAM-TV, and Victoria, Texas, including KAVU-TV. Saga will additionally acquire the assets of Fox affiliates in each market owned by Surtsey Media and operated by Saga under local marketing agreements. These stations' license assets will be acquired by SagamoreHill Broadcasting. The sale was completed September 1.\n\nIn September 2018, it was announced that the company would invest in Good Karma Brands to back its acquisition of the Milwaukee radio stations WKTI and WTMJ.\n\nStations are arranged in alphabetical order by state and city of license.<br>\nNote:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2165031", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165031", "title": "Jack Larson", "text": "Jack Larson\n\nJack Edward Larson (February 8, 1928 – September 20, 2015) was an American actor, librettist, screenwriter and producer best known for his portrayal of photographer/cub reporter Jimmy Olsen on the television series \"Adventures of Superman\".\n\nLarson was born on February 8,1928 in Los Angeles, the son of Anita (Calicoff), a Western Union clerk, and George Larson, a milk truck driver. His father was of English and Swedish descent and his mother was from a Jewish family (from Germany and Russia). He was reared in Pasadena. He graduated from Montebello High School in 1945, aged 17 and at times claimed 1933 as his birth year.\n\nLarson found the role of cub reporter Jimmy Olsen on \"The Adventures of Superman\" to be a handicap, because he became typecast as a naive young man. This caused him to do little acting after the show ended in 1958, and he turned to writing and production, with an output that included plays, a libretto, texts for classical music, and movies such as \"The Baby Maker\". In later years his attitude towards the Jimmy Olsen role warmed, as he focused more on the love people had for the character. Larson was always willing to sit for interviews about the \"Superman\" series and his connection to it, and began having a number of cameos that paid subtle tribute to his character and the series, including a 1991 episode of the TV series \"Superboy\", alongside Noel Neill, who played Lois Lane in \"Adventures of Superman\", and an episode of \"\" as an aged Jimmy Olsen in the episode \"Brutal Youth\", first broadcast on October 20, 1996.\n\nLarson had a cameo in a late-1990s American Express card commercial, \"The Adventures of Seinfeld & Superman\". He and Neill provided commentary on several \"Adventures of Superman\" episodes for the January 2006 DVD release of the 1953 season, and in 2006, he appeared in Bryan Singer's film \"Superman Returns\" in a cameo role as \"Bo the Bartender\". Bo wore a bowtie, a trademark of Larson's depiction of Jimmy Olsen. Larson and Neill appeared together at the premiere of \"Superman Returns\".\n\nLarson's last television appearance was in the \"\" episode \"Quickie\", which aired on the NBC network on January 6, 2010.\n\nLarson was interviewed extensively for the movie \"Making Montgomery Clift\" in which he verified Clift's nephew's (Rob Clift, Director) claim that Clift was not a dark tragically depressed figure, but someone who loved life and the people who loved him in return.\n\nAmong his other work, Larson wrote the libretto to the opera \"Lord Byron\" to music by Virgil Thomson.\n\nLarson was the life partner of director James Bridges from 1958 until Bridges' death on June 6, 1993. Prior to that, he was the companion of actor Montgomery Clift.\n\nLarson owned and resided in the Frank Lloyd Wright–designed George Sturges House in the Brentwood section of Los Angeles, California, until his death.\n\nHe died on September 20, 2015, at the age of 87. His interment was at Rose Hills Memorial Park in Whittier, California.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2165039", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165039", "title": "Alex Garden", "text": "Alex Garden\n\nAlex Garden is the CEO of Vancouver-based game developer Relic Entertainment, which he co-founded with Luke Moloney and 5 other employees in 1997. In February 2005, he founded the company iVALET Systems Inc. to develop an advanced parking system. On November 3, 2006, Alex Garden joined Nexon to run Nexon's North American game development studio, Nexon Publishing North America. In October, 2009, Alex Garden joined Microsoft to work in their games division, Microsoft Game Studios. On April 23, 2014, Zynga announced that Alex Garden was hired to become President of Zynga Studios with a start date of May 5, 2014. On 13 April 2016 Alex Garden returned to Relic Entertainment as CEO. In 2016 Garden founded Zume Pizza.\n"}
{"id": "2165041", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165041", "title": "Louisville High School (California)", "text": "Louisville High School (California)\n\nLouisville High School is an independently run Roman Catholic college preparatory high school for young women located on Mulholland Drive in Woodland Hills in Los Angeles at the Western end of the San Fernando Valley. The school is sponsored by the Sisters of Saint Louis, an order founded in France during the 19th century by Abbé Louis Eugène Marie Bautain, though most of the current Sisters hail from Ireland.\n\nThe convent of the Sisters of St. Louis lies on a mount overlooking the school. The school and convent are built on what was once Manzanita Ranch, the former estate of actress Marjorie Rambeau. Manzanita refers to a small evergreen shrub that grows on the hills surrounding Louisville. Under the leadership of Sister Mary Ronan, Manzanita Ranch was purchased for renovation and construction. The first class of 9th grade students entered in September 1960.Louisville is close with the all boys college preparatory school Crespi Carmelite High School.\n"}
{"id": "2165044", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165044", "title": "Lee Hirsch", "text": "Lee Hirsch\n\nLee Hirsch (born 1972) is an American documentary filmmaker. Hirsch is a graduate of The Putney School in Vermont and Hampshire College, in Amherst, Massachusetts. He wrote and directed the documentary \"\".\n\nHirsch also contributed a chapter to \"Sound Unbound: Sampling Digital Music and Culture\" (The MIT Press, 2008), edited by Paul D. Miller (DJ Spooky).\n\nHis film \"Bully\" premiered at the 2011 Tribeca Film Festival. \"Bully\" follows several families from across ethnic, cultural and geographic boundaries as they grapple with the tragedy their family has faced as a result of bullying. Several of the families profiled in the film had lost a child because he or she became fed up with the mostly mental and sometimes physical abuse they experienced on a daily, even hourly basis at school, on the school bus, and in their communities.\n\nIn a screening of \"Bully\" in Minneapolis in September 2011, director Hirsch told the audience during the post-film Q & A that he himself had been bullied, and that was part of the inspiration for the film, and for the direction he took it. In an interview with Twin Cities Jewish news website \"TC Jewfolk\" after the screening Hirsch continued:\n\n\"I felt that the hardest part of being bullied was communicating,\" Hirsch said. \"And getting help. I couldn’t enroll people's support. People would say things like 'get over it,' even my own father and mother. They weren’t with me. That was a big part of my wanting to make the film. It’s cathartic on a daily basis.\" Hirsch said he hoped the film grows far beyond him, inspiring advocacy, engagement, and empowerment not just in people who are being bullied and in their families, but by those of us who all too often stand by and do nothing. He stated, \"I hope we build something that’s really sustainable. I hope this takes on a life of its own.\" Hirsch is Jewish.\n\nIn a Google+ Hangout on March 19, 2012, Lee Hirsch was interviewed by newscaster Tony McEwing at \"My Fox 11 LA\" studios, where Hirsch said: \"I want this to be a grassroots movement so that the local cities can get behind this movie and support it. This is a great way for people to get involved on social media to help raise awareness.\" \"The New York Times\" described \"Bully\" as \"moving and troubling\".\n"}
{"id": "2165049", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165049", "title": "Red Sea sailfin tang", "text": "Red Sea sailfin tang\n\nThe Red Sea sailfin tang or Desjardin's sailfin tang (\"Zebrasoma desjardinii\") is a marine reef tang in the fish family Acanthuridae.\n\n\"Zebrasoma desjardinii\" grows to a maximum length of 40 cm (16 in), with a sexual dimorphism, as males being larger than females. This species shows the typical morphology of the family Acanthuridae. The body is oval or disc-shaped, with erectile and much elevated dorsal and anal fins. The coloration may vary from one individual to another and within the same individual, depending on age. In general, the upper side of the body alternates orange and dark blue vertical bands, with a larger blue band on the eyes, a spotted ventral region and numerous white spots on the head. The dorsal and anal fins have a pattern of horizontal alternate orange and blue bands. The caudal fin shows white spots and lines.\n\nLike most surgeonfish on each side of the caudal fin, in the middle of the caudal peduncle, there is a defensive dark spine surrounded by a blue zone. This spine is hinged and may unfolds to 80°.\n\nIn respect of Zebrasoma veliferum, adult Red Sea Sailfin tang has a few less anal fin rays (22-24 instead of 23-26) and different marking on the tail. As a juvenile, they are almost indistinguishable in color and markings. \nAdults usually can be found in pairs, while juveniles are solitary. When threatened, these fishes display their large ventral and dorsal fins. They feed primarily on filamentous algae, various macroalgae and plankton. However, individuals were regularly observed feeding on jellyfish (Scyphozoa) and comb jellies (Ctenophora) in the Red Sea. They are pair spawners, a typical trait of other fish in the genus \"Zebrasoma\". This differs from the group spawning typical of the family Acanthuridae.\n\nThis species is widespread in the Indian Ocean from the northern Red Sea to KwaZulu-Natal Province in South Africa and as far east as India and Java.\n\nRed Sea sailfin tangs natively live in lagoons and reefs in a tropical climate. The juvenile fishes live in the inner reef areas. They prefer saltwater with a specific gravity of 1.020 - 1.025, a pH between 8.1 and 8.4 and an ideal temperature range of 22 - 26 C (72 - 78 F). They may live at water depths of 2 – 30 m (6.5 – 100 ft) or more.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2165055", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165055", "title": "One Day Remains", "text": "One Day Remains\n\nOne Day Remains is the debut studio album by the American rock band Alter Bridge, released on August 10, 2004 on Wind-up Records. The album was produced by Ben Grosse, making it the band's only album to not be produced by Michael \"Elvis\" Baskette as of 2019; additonally, it is the only release by the band on which lead singer Myles Kennedy does not play guitar. It has been certified Gold in the United States as of November 2004, with worldwide sales reaching 750,000. It is said the album received its name from the band members' attitudes that life should be lived as if only one day remains. Guitarist Mark Tremonti also said in an interview that the title is a reference to the title cards that appeared in the 2001 movie \"Donnie Darko\", and it is one of the names the band considered using before settling with Alter Bridge.\n\nAlthough never released as a single, \"Metalingus\" is one of Alter Bridge's most popular songs and is a live staple. The song is used by current WWE wrestler and Hall of Famer \"The Rated R Superstar\" Edge as his entrance theme since 2004.\n\nLike \"Metalingus\", \"In Loving Memory\" was never released as a single, though it is one of the band's most popular songs among fans. On November 5, 2008 in Glasgow, an electric version of the song was performed for the first time, and has since become a regular feature in their live shows.\n\nMark Tremonti wrote the song about the death of his mother, Mary Elizabeth Tremonti, who died in 2002. In an interview he said: \"There are a lot of themes on this record that are very personal, for example 'In Loving Memory' is about my mother who recently passed away. In terms of purely personal significance, you cannot get any deeper than that. It is definitely a sad song.\"\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2165061", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165061", "title": "WISC-TV", "text": "WISC-TV\n\nWISC-TV, virtual channel 3 (VHF digital channel 11), is a CBS-affiliated television station licensed to Madison, Wisconsin, United States. It is the flagship station of Madison-based Morgan Murphy Media, and has been affiliated with CBS since its launch on June 24, 1956. WISC-TV's studios are located on Raymond Road in Madison, and its transmitter is located on Mineral Point Road in the city's Middleton Junction section.\n\nWISC-TV also carries a secondary subchannel branded as TVW, which carries an affiliation with MyNetworkTV, along with additional syndicated and locally originated programming.\n\nWISC-TV first took to the airwaves on June 24, 1956, taking over Madison's CBS affiliation from WKOW-TV (which retained ABC affiliation). It was originally a sister station to WISC radio (1480 AM, now WOZN at AM 1670).\n\nDespite being the state's second largest market, Madison was a \"doughnut\" market as it was sandwiched between other markets where primary VHF signals were already assigned–Milwaukee (channels 4, 6, 10, and 12) to the east, Wausau/Rhinelander (channels 7, 9, and 12) and Green Bay (channels 2, 5, and 11) to the north, Chicago (channels 2, 5, 7, 9, and 11) to the southeast, Rockford (channel 13) to the south, and La Crosse/Eau Claire (channels 8 and 13) to the west. Having the market's only VHF signal gave channel 3 a distinct advantage—and market leadership—over UHF competitors WKOW and WMTV, a position that the station has enjoyed for much of its history, even after the advent of cable television put the competitors on equal footing (WISC's former slogan, \"Wisconsin's Leadership Station,\" played upon that advantage).\n\nWISC-TV has been affiliated with CBS since its launch, though it was also briefly affiliated with the NTA Film Network during the late 1950s. From 1995 to 1999, WISC-TV carried select UPN programming during overnight hours, before the launch of a full-time UPN affiliate in the market, WHPN. UPN returned in 2002 on WISC's cable/digital subchannel, TVW, which had been affiliated with The WB since 1998; TVW has been with MyNetworkTV since 2006.\n\nWISC-TV commemorated its 50th anniversary in June 2006, which merited a congratulatory mention by David Letterman on his \"Late Show\" broadcast of June 22, 2006 (its first program, he quipped, was \"Good Morning, Cheddar\").\n\nAfter CBS' airing of Super Bowl LIII, WISC-TV debuted a new newscast set, dropped the \"3\" logo in use since 1990, and changed their \"News 3\" branding to \"News 3 Now\".\n\nThe station's digital signal is multiplexed:\nWISC-TV shut down its analog signal, over VHF channel 3, at 12:30 p.m. on February 17, 2009, the original target date in which full-power television stations in the United States were to transition from analog to digital broadcasts under federal mandate (which was later pushed back to June 12, 2009). The station's digital signal remained on its pre-transition UHF channel 50. Through the use of PSIP, digital television receivers display the station's virtual channel as its former VHF analog channel 3.\n\nThe analog channel 3 continued to serve as a \"nightlight\", broadcasting a loop of digital transition information and instructions in addition to any local news programming and emergency information, until signing off for good the final week of March 2009.\n\nIn 2000, WISC-TV launched TVW on digital subchannel 3.2. Before that time, the channel was available only on cable systems in south-central Wisconsin. As an over-the-air channel, TVW has been affiliated with The WB, UPN, and since 2006, MyNetworkTV, in addition to carrying local and syndicated content.\n\nOn April 13, 2017, the results of the FCC's 2016 spectrum auction were announced, with Morgan Murphy successfully selling the UHF spectrum for WISC for just under $50 million. WISC would move their spectrum from UHF channel 50 to VHF, taking the former digital channel 11 position held by WMSN-TV before a return to UHF in November 2010.\n\nOutside of the CBS network schedule, syndicated programming on WISC-TV includes \"The Dr. Oz Show\", and \"Entertainment Tonight\". WISC was home to ESPN Plus broadcasts of Wisconsin Badger sports before the syndicator's relationship with the Big Ten Conference ended in 2007.\n\nIn addition to its normal morning, noon, 5 p.m., 6 p.m. and 10 p.m. newscasts, WISC airs \"News 3 Now Live at Four\", a one-hour newscast which is largely devoted to non-headline news and features that focus on the community and the people of Madison, Dane County, and south-central Wisconsin. Live at Four originally aired at 5 p.m., but moved to 4 p.m. in October 2015 to expand to one hour. In April 2011, WISC began offering free on demand segments of their newscasts on the Roku digital video player. WISC-TV also produces a 9 p.m. newscast for Fox affiliate WMSN-TV, under a news share arrangement that began on January 1, 2012 (before then, WMSN had aired a newscast from WKOW since 1999, while WISC had produced a 9 p.m. newscast for TVW since 2004).\n\nOn October 26, 2008, WISC-TV began producing all its newscasts in total high-definition video, becoming the first commercial TV station in Wisconsin to do so. The station had produced occasional news features in HD since the beginning of 2008.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2165064", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165064", "title": "Robert Shayne", "text": "Robert Shayne\n\nRobert Shayne (born Robert Shaen Dawe, October 4, 1900 – November 29, 1992) was an American actor whose career lasted for over 60 years. He was best known for portraying Inspector Bill Henderson in the American television series \"Adventures of Superman.\"\n\nShayne was born in Yonkers, New York. He was the son of Mr. and Mrs. Grosvenor Dawe, and he had a brother, Allen Shaen Dawe. His father was one of the founders of the United States Chamber of Commerce.\n\nShayne left Boston University in his senior year so that his brother could go to college. For a time, he lived in Birmingham, Alabama, writing advertising copy for a women's clothing store by day and acting in a stock theater company at night. When the store went out of business, he began acting full-time.\n\nShayne became an actor after having worked as a reporter at the \"Illustrated Daily Tab\" in Miami, Florida. His initial acting experience came with repertory companies in Alabama, including the Birmingham Players.\n\nShayne's first Broadway appearance came by 1931 in \"The Rap\". His other Broadway shows include \"Yellow Jack\" (1934), \"The Cat and the Canary\" (1935), \"Whiteoaks\" (1938), with Ethel Barrymore, and \"Without Love\" (1942), with Katharine Hepburn.\n\nShayne began his film career in 1934, appearing in two features. In 1942, he became a contract actor with Warner Bros.. He played many character roles in movies and television, including a film series of Warner Bros. featurettes called the \"Santa Fe Trail\" series such as \"Wagon Wheels West\", and as a mad scientist in the 1953 horror film \"The Neanderthal Man\".\n\nHe appears briefly in Alfred Hitchcock's \"North by Northwest\", seated at a booth in a hotel bar, where his character meets Cary Grant's character, just as the latter is about to be kidnapped. He also had a small but pivotal role in the 1953 sci-fi classic \"Invaders From Mars\" as a scientist. Shayne enjoyed a brief rebirth in his career when he was cast as the blind newspaper vendor in \"The Flash\" television show; he was by this time actually blind and learned his lines by having his wife read them to him and then rehearse until he memorized them.\n\nShayne portrayed Police Inspector William \"Bill\" Henderson on the 1950s TV series \"Adventures of Superman\". He appeared sporadically in the early episodes of the series, in part because he came under HUAC scrutiny and was briefly blacklisted on unproven and unspecific charges of association with Communism. As the program evolved, especially in the color episodes, he was brought into more and more of them, to the point where he was a regular on the series.\n\nShayne married Mary Crouch in 1929. They divorced three years later and had one daughter. In 1934, he married Mary Sheffield. They divorced in 1946 and had one daughter.\n\nShayne died of lung cancer at the Motion Picture Hospital in Woodland Hills, California. He was buried in Forest Lawn Memorial Park, Hollywood Hills, California, and was survived by his wife, 3 daughters, 11 grandchildren, and 9 great-grandchildren.\n\n"}
{"id": "2165075", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165075", "title": "Silver-oxide battery", "text": "Silver-oxide battery\n\nA silver-oxide battery (IEC code: S) is a primary cell with a very high energy-to-weight ratio. They are available in small sizes as button cells, where the amount of silver used is minimal and not a significant contributor to the product cost.\n\nSilver-oxide primary batteries account for 30% of all primary battery sales in Japan (64 out of 212 millions in February 2020).\n\nA silver-oxide battery uses silver(I) oxide as the positive electrode (cathode), zinc as the negative electrode (anode), plus an alkaline electrolyte, usually sodium hydroxide (NaOH) or potassium hydroxide (KOH). The silver is reduced at the cathode from Ag(I) to Ag, and the zinc is oxidized from Zn to Zn(II). \n\nThe half-cell reaction at the negative plate:\n\nThe reaction in the electrolyte:\n\nThe half-cell reaction at the positive plate:\n\nOverall reaction: \n\nOverall reaction (anhydrous form):\n\nSilver-oxide batteries have a nominal voltage of 1.55V. Compared to other batteries they have a higher open-circuit voltage than a mercury battery, and a flatter discharge curve than a standard alkaline battery.\n\nSilver-oxide batteries become hazardous on the onset of leakage; this generally takes 5 years from the time they are put into use (which coincides with their normal shelf life). Until recently, all silver-oxide batteries contained up to 0.2% mercury. The mercury was incorporated into the zinc anode to inhibit corrosion in the alkaline environment. Sony started producing the first silver-oxide batteries without added mercury in 2004.\n\n"}
{"id": "2165081", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165081", "title": "Aéropostale (aviation)", "text": "Aéropostale (aviation)\n\nAéropostale (formally, \"Compagnie générale aéropostale\") was a pioneering aviation company which operated from 1918 to 1933. It was founded in 1918 in Toulouse, France, as \"Société des lignes Latécoère\", also known as \"Lignes aeriennes Latécoère\" or simply \"The Line\" (\"La ligne\").\n\nAéropostale founder Pierre-Georges Latécoère envisioned an air route connecting France to the French colonies in Africa and South America. The company's activities were to specialise in, but were by no means restricted to, airborne postal services.\n\nBetween 1921 and 1927 the \"Line\" operated as \"Compagnie générale d'entreprises aéronautiques\" (CGEA). In April 1927 Latécoère, having troubles with its planes, damaged due to long flights to South America, decided to sell 93% of his business to another Brazilian-based French businessman named Marcel Bouilloux-Lafont. On that basis Bouilloux-Lafont then founded the \"Compagnie générale aéropostale\", better known by the shorter name \"Aéropostale\".\n\nOn December 25, 1918, the company began serving its first route between Toulouse and Barcelona in Spain. In February 1919 the line was extended to Casablanca. By 1925 it extended to Dakar, where the mail was shipped by steamer to South America. In November 1927 regular flights between Rio de Janeiro and Natal were started. Expansion then continued to Paraguay and in July 1929 a regularly scheduled route across the Andes Mountains to Santiago, Chile, was started, later extending down to Tierra del Fuego on the southern part of Chile. Finally, on May 12–13, 1930, the trip across the South Atlantic by air finally took place: a Latécoère 28 mail plane fitted with floats and a Hispano-Suiza engine made the first nonstop flight. Aeropostale pilot Jean Mermoz flew from Dakar to Natal in 19 hours, 35 minutes, with his plane holding of mail.\n\nAfter a scandal in which postal payments from the French government were misused by Aeropostale, the company was dissolved in 1932 and merged with a number of other aviation companies (Air Orient, Société Générale de Transport Aérien, Air Union, and Compagnie Internationale de Navigation) to create Air France.\n\nDeveloped in the aftermath of World War I, air mail service owed much to the bravery of its earliest pilots. During the 1920s, every flight was a dangerous adventure, and sometimes fatal. The period was eloquently described by the French writer Antoine de Saint-Exupéry – himself an Aéropostale pilot – in his novel \"Vol de Nuit\" (\"Night Flight\"), in which he describes a postal flight through the skies of South America.\n\nAéropostale's roster of pilots included such aviation legends as:\n\nAmong the aircraft operated by the company were:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2165091", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165091", "title": "Emergency Response Guidebook", "text": "Emergency Response Guidebook\n\nThe Emergency Response Guidebook: \"A Guidebook for First Responders During the Initial Phase of a Dangerous Goods/Hazardous Materials Transportation Incident\" (ERG) is used by emergency response personnel (such as firefighters, paramedics and police officers) in Canada, Mexico, and the United States when responding to a transportation emergency involving hazardous materials. First responders in Argentina, Brazil, and Colombia have recently begun using the ERG as well. It is produced by the United States Department of Transportation, Transport Canada, and the Secretariat of Communications and Transportation (Mexico). The principal authors of the ERG are Transport Canada's Michel Cloutier and U.S. DOT's George Cushmac.\n\nThe ERG is primarily applicable for hazardous materials transported by highway and railway, but also is applicable for materials transported by air or waterway, as well as by pipeline. It was first issued by the US Department of Transportation in 1973, but later became a joint publication of the Department of Transportation (US DOT), Transport Canada (TC), and the Secretariat of Communications and Transportation (SCT) of Mexico, with collaboration with the Chemistry Information Center for Emergencies (CIQUIME) of Argentina. The ERG is issued every 4 years, with editions now being published in Spanish (Guía de Respuesta en Caso de Emergencia). In 1996 it was published as the North American Emergency Response Guidebook, but by the next publication in 2000 \"North American\" was removed due to its use by several South American countries).\nThe ERG \"is primarily a guide to aid first responders in quickly identifying the specific or generic hazards of the material(s) involved in the incident, and protecting themselves and the general public during the initial response phase of\nthe incident\" and should only be used for the \"initial response phase\" (\"that period \nfollowing arrival at the scene of an incident during which the presence and/or identification \nof dangerous goods is confirmed, protective actions and area securement are initiated, and \nassistance of qualified personnel is requested.\") of an incident . It is divided into six color-coded sections (white [uncolored], yellow, blue, orange, green, and a second white [uncolored]). The ERG includes 62 \"Guides\" (found in the Orange Section) that identify the primary hazards associated with the applicable general category of hazardous material and general guidance on how to respond to incidents involving that general category of hazardous material. The primary purpose of ERG is to direct the emergency responders to the most appropriate of these guides, based on the incident. The ERG also provides guidance regarding recommended evacuation distances, if applicable, in the Green Section.\n\nThe first section, with white page (uncolored) borders, provides the following:\n\nThe second section, with yellow page borders, references the material in order of its assigned 4-digit ID number/UN/NA number (which is often placarded with the other hazardous materials placards) and identifies the appropriate guide number to reference in the Orange Section). Items highlighted in green in this section will have evacuation distances included in the Green Section.\n\nThe third section, with blue page borders, references the material in alphabetical order of its name and identifies the appropriate guide number to reference in the Orange Section). Items highlighted in green in this section will also have evacuation distances included in the Green Section.\n\nThe fourth section, with orange page borders, includes the actual response guides. Each of the 62 guides provides safety recommendations and directions on how to proceed during the initial response phase (first thirty minutes) of the incident. It includes \"health\" and \"fire or explosion\" potential hazard information (with the more dangerous hazard listed first). For example, \"the material gives off irritating vapors, easily ignited by heat, reactive with water\"; \"highly toxic, may be fatal if inhaled, swallowed or absorbed through skin\"; etc. \nNext this section includes information for responders on appropriate protective clothing and possible evacuation information for either spill or fire is given. It also includes information on fighting fires (example, do not apply water to sodium), warnings for spills or leaks, and special directions for first aid (example, not to give mouth-to-mouth resuscitation if the materials are toxic).\n\nIn the event of an unknown material, Guide #111 should be followed until more information becomes available.\n\nThe fifth section, with green page borders, suggests initial evacuation or shelter in place distances (protective action distances) for spills of materials that are Toxic-by-Inhalation (TIH). These distances vary based on the size of the spill (small or large) and whether the incident occurs during the day or at night. Only materials that were highlighted in green in the Yellow and Blue Sections are included in the Green Section.\nThis section also includes information regarding toxic gases that are produced when certain materials are spilled in water (as identified previously in this section). Finally, this section includes some very specific evacuation details for six common materials.\n\nThe sixth section, with white page (uncolored) borders, provides the following:\n\n\nEditions of the ERG:\n\n\nOther links\n"}
{"id": "2165098", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165098", "title": "Caramelos de Cianuro", "text": "Caramelos de Cianuro\n\nCaramelos de Cianuro \"(Cyanide Candies)\" is an alternative rock band from Venezuela formed in 1991. They recorded their first songs, \"Nadando a Través De la Galaxia\" (Swimming Across the Galaxy) and \"Tu Mamá Te Va a Pegar\" (Your mom is going to hit you), in 1992.\n\nA year later, the group signed up to CNR and released an EP called \"Las Paticas de la Abuela\", followed by the band's first album, \"Cuentos Para Adultos\", in 1994. Performing a mixture of Latin Punk and alternative rock, Caramelos de Cianuro returned in 1996 with \"Harakiri City\", released by Polygram. Two years later, original drummer Pablo Martínez was replaced by Alfonso Tosta, and the group went on tour with Colombian band Aterciopelados. In 2000 they released their album \"Miss Mujerzuela\", which achieved platinum status in Venezuela in 2001.\n\nIn 2002, Caramelos de Cianuro released their album called \"Frisbee\", which featured \"El Último Polvo\". This song's video got into MTV Latin America's Top Ten. In 2005, Luis Golding left the band and Pável Tello joined the band's line up shortly afterward. In 2006 they released their album, \"Flor De Fuego\", with \"Como Serpiente\" promoted as the lead off single. In August 2008, Alfonso Tosta left the band and was replaced by Darío Adames. In 2010 the group released the album \"Caramelos de Cianuro\", and in 2015 the band released their last album \"8\" with more of a soft rock and post punk sound, with \"Secreto\" as first single.\n\nOn March 22, 2012, their manager and friend of 10 years, Libero Iaizzo, was kidnapped in Caracas, Venezuela while Caramelos de Cianuro were in Mexico preparing for a concert. Though the ransom demand was met, Iaizzo was killed the next day with a shot to the head. That year's Pepsi Music Awards ceremony, at which Caramelos de Cianuro were named Refreshing Band and Rock Artist of the Year, included a tribute to Iaizzo. However, remarks involving his death and other violence in Venezuela were censored from Venevisión's television broadcast of the event. The band has since expressed both pain and concern regarding the steadily rising crime rates in Venezuela.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2165104", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165104", "title": "The Mysterious Flame of Queen Loana", "text": "The Mysterious Flame of Queen Loana\n\nThe Mysterious Flame of Queen Loana (original Italian title: \"La Misteriosa Fiamma della Regina Loana\") is a novel by Italian writer Umberto Eco. It was first published in Italian in 2004, and an English language translation by Geoffrey Brock was published in spring 2005. The title is taken from the title of an Italian edition album of an episode of the American comic strip \"Tim Tyler's Luck\".\n\nThe plot of the book concerns Yambo (full name: Giambattista Bodoni, just like the typographer Giambattista Bodoni), a 59-year-old Milanese antiquarian book dealer who loses his episodic memory due to a stroke. At the beginning of the novel, he can remember everything he has ever read but does not remember his family, his past, or even his own name. Yambo decides to go to Solara, his childhood home, parts of which he has abandoned following a family tragedy, to see if he can rediscover his lost past. After days of searching through old newspapers, vinyl records, books, magazines and childhood comic books, he is unsuccessful in regaining memories, though he relives the story of his generation and the society in which his dead parents and grandfather lived. Ready to abandon his quest, he discovers a copy of the original First Folio of 1623 among his grandfather's books, the shock of which causes another incident, during which he relives his lost memories of childhood. The final section of the book is, therefore, a literary exploration of the traditional phenomenon whereby a person's life flashes before him or her, as Yambo struggles to regain the one memory he seeks above all others: the face of the girl he loved ever since he was a student.\n\nUmberto Eco includes myriad references to both scholarly and popular culture in the book (notably the \"Flash Gordon\" strips) and has drawn heavily on his own experiences growing up in Benito Mussolini's Fascist Italy. Like other Eco novels, \"The Mysterious Flame of Queen Loana\" boasts abundant intertextuality.\n\nThe novel received generally positive reviews. On Metacritic, which assigns a weighted mean rating out of 0–100 reviews from professional reviewers, the book achieved a rating score of 65 based on 23 reviews.\n\n"}
{"id": "2165108", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165108", "title": "Dr. Luke", "text": "Dr. Luke\n\nLukasz Sebastian Gottwald (born September 26, 1973), known professionally as Dr. Luke, is an American record producer, songwriter, and singer. His professional music career began in the late night television sketch comedy \"Saturday Night Live\" as its house band's lead guitarist in 1997 and producing remixes for artists such as Bon Jovi and Gravediggaz. He came into music prominence in 2004 for producing Kelly Clarkson's single \"Since U Been Gone\" with Swedish record producer Max Martin.\n\nGottwald continued to co-write and produce commercially successful records such as \"Who Knew\" (2006) for Pink, \"Girlfriend\" (2007) for Avril Lavigne, and \"I Kissed a Girl\" (2008) for Katy Perry, before leaving \"Saturday Night Live\" and reuniting with Clarkson for \"My Life Would Suck Without You\" (2009). Gottwald has also worked with Taio Cruz, B.o.B, Britney Spears, Nicki Minaj, Rihanna, T.I., Flo Rida, Miley Cyrus, Jessie J, Juicy J, Ne-Yo, Shakira and Pitbull. He is also noted for signing recording artists such as Kesha and Sabi.\n\nGottwald's work has been recognized with various music industry awards. \"Billboard\" named him one of the top performing producers of the 2000s. The American Society of Composers, Authors and Publishers awarded him Producer and Songwriter of the Year honors from 2009 to 2011. At the 53rd Grammy Awards, he was nominated for a Grammy Award for Producer of the Year, Non-Classical, and Perry's \"Teenage Dream\" was nominated for Grammy Award for Album of the Year.\n\nIn October 2014, Kesha initiated a series of lawsuits, alleging sexual assault and abuse by Gottwald.\n\nŁukasz Sebastian Gottwald was born in Providence, Rhode Island. He is Jewish. His father, Janusz Jerzy Gottwald, was an architect who was born in Łask, Poland. Gottwald spent many of his formative years in New York City. He had originally wanted to be a drummer, but his parents refused to allow a drum kit in the house. At 13, he picked up his older sister's guitar and taught himself how to play. As a teenager, Gottwald would \"listen to bad music over and over, if there was a guitar part [he] admired, so [he] could figure out what the guitar player was doing right.\"\n\nGottwald attended the Manhattan School of Music for two years. He joined the Saturday Night Live Band as the lead guitarist in 1997 until the 2006–2007 season.\n\nHe produced tracks and remixes for various artists including Arrested Development and Nappy Roots. He released the 12\" single \"Wet Lapse\", under the name Kasz, for Rawkus Records, and remixed the theme from the film \"Mortal Kombat\". While deejaying at a house party, Gottwald met producer Max Martin and subsequently gave Martin a tour of New York clubs when Martin arrived in the city.\n\nGottwald owns two publishing companies, Kasz Money Publishing, for his own songs, and Prescription Songs, which employs other songwriters. As of January 2011, he has garnered 21 Top 40 \"Billboard\" Hot 100 singles, becoming the producer with the third most such hits since the charts were created.\n\nHe co-wrote and co-produced the Kelly Clarkson Hot 100 number two song, \"Since U Been Gone\" with Max Martin and provided the singer another hit in \"Behind These Hazel Eyes\". Subsequent songs by Pink, \"Who Knew\" and \"U + Ur Hand\" reached the Hot 100 top ten. He would go on to co-produce a number one for Avril Lavigne with the song \"Girlfriend\" as well as seven other songs on the Lavigne album. He also achieved a UK number one with the song \"About You Now\" for the Sugababes. Gottwald contributed two songs to Katy Perry's second album,\"One of the Boys\". Hot 100 number one, \"I Kissed a Girl\" and \"Hot n Cold\", as well as three songs to Britney Spears' 2008 album, \"Circus\", including the title track. He also co-produced the US number one song \"Right Round\" by Flo Rida. His third co-production for Kelly Clarkson, \"My Life Would Suck Without You\" reached the top of the Hot 100 as well. In late 2009, his song for Miley Cyrus, \"Party in the U.S.A.\" co-written by Jessie J, reached number two on the chart. In December 2009, \"Billboard\" named him as one of the top 10 producers of the decade.\n\nOn April 21, Gottwald was named Songwriter of the Year at the 2010 ASCAP Pop Music Awards and received 10 ASCAP Pop Music Awards for the year as the songwriter and publisher. He had received ten Pop Music Awards from ASCAP between 2006 and 2009. He was also named to Fast Company's 100 Most Creative People in Business, placing at number 33. Gottwald's co-production for Katy Perry \"California Gurls\" debuted at number two on the Hot 100 and later reached number one. Second single \"Teenage Dream\" would follow suit. Taio Cruz's \"Dynamite\", co-produced by Gottwald, reached number one in the UK and number two in the US. He contributed to three more top ten songs, \"Magic\" for B.o.B, \"My First Kiss\" for 3OH!3, and \"Take It Off\" for Kesha, as well as a top five song, \"Your Love Is My Drug\", by the latter on the Hot 100.\n\nIn 2010 he was named both the Number One Hot 100 Songwriter of the Year and Number One Producer of the Year by \"Billboard\". At the start of 2011, \"Advertising Age\" called Gottwald \"the year's most successful producer and songwriter in terms of chart longevity.\"\n\nOn the week ending March 3, 2012, Gottwald's co-production for Katy Perry \"Part of Me\" became the 20th song to debut atop the Billboard Hot 100. He also produced Perry's single \"Wide Awake\", which peaked at number 2 on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100, whilst topping the US Pop Songs chart. On November 2, 2012, several songs from boy band One Direction's second album \"Take Me Home\" were leaked online, including \"Rock Me\", produced by Gottwald and frequent collaborators Cirkut, Emily Wright, and Kool Kojak.\n\n, Luke was no longer listed on the official Sony Music website. Later that month, it was announced that Dr. Luke is no longer the CEO of Kemosabe Records. The same year Dr. Luke adopted the pseudonym Made in China. He has since produced songs for artists such as Trey Songz, Ne-Yo, and Big Boi.\n\nIn 2017, Luke began songwriting and producing for German singer-songwriter Kim Petras. He also produced five songs on Doja Cat's second album \"Hot Pink\" (2019), including its number one single \"Say So\".\n\nIn September 2013, Rebecca Pimmel, a fan of Kesha, set up a petition to \"free\" Kesha from Gottwald's management and accused Luke of \"stunting\" Kesha's creative growth as an artist. The petitioners concur with the position stated in Kesha's TV series documentary, \"\", in which Luke serves as an executive producer, that she had little creative control of her second album, \"Warrior\".\n\nIn January 2014, shortly after Kesha was admitted to a rehab center for bulimia nervosa, Kesha's mother, Pebe Sebert, made allegations that pressure for Kesha to lose weight came from Gottwald. Sebert claimed that Gottwald said that Kesha looked \"like a refrigerator\" which instigated her eating disorder. Gottwald denies these claims.\n\nIn October 2014, Kesha sued Gottwald, claiming sexual assault and battery, sexual harassment, gender violence, civil harassment, violation of California's laws against unfair business practices, infliction of emotional distress (both intentional and negligent), and negligent retention and supervision. Gottwald responded by filing a countersuit alleging that Kesha's lawsuit was an attempt by Kesha, her mother, and her new management firm to extort him into releasing her from her contract.\n\nA preliminary injunction in which Kesha sought to be released from her contract was denied on February 19, 2016. Before her legal battle against Gottwald, in 2011, Kesha had previously sworn under oath that the producer had never assaulted or drugged her in a deposition for a lawsuit against her former managers at DAS Communications, a key piece of evidence that played a role in the court ruling in favor of the defense. In April 2016, Kesha claimed that she had been offered freedom from her contract if she recanted her rape allegations against Gottwald.\n\nSince Gottwald's countersuit was in New York, the court lacked jurisdiction to rule on incidents alleged to have occurred in California. Kesha filed suit in California, but a Los Angeles superior court judge froze Kesha's lawsuit until Gottwald's lawsuit, for breach of contract and defamation, was settled.\n\nOn April 6, 2016, New York Judge Shirley Kornreich dismissed Kesha's claims of sexual assault, sexual harassment, and gender violence. \"While Kesha's [claim] alleges that she was sexually, physically and verbally abused by Gottwald for a decade, she describes only two specific instances of physical/sexual abuse,\" Kornreich wrote. \"And the most recent event described was alleged to have happened in 2008 and so falls outside of the statute of limitations.\" The judge dismissed Kesha's hate crime claim because the filings \"do not allege that Gottwald harbored animus toward women or was motivated by gender animus when he allegedly behaved violently toward Kesha ... Every rape is not a gender-motivated hate crime.\" Kesha's claim of intentional infliction of emotional distress was dismissed by the judge because \"claims of insults about her value as an artist, her looks, and her weight are insufficient to constitute extreme, outrageous conduct intolerable in civilized society.\"\n\nGrammy Awards\n\nASCAP Pop Music Awards\n\n"}
{"id": "2165112", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165112", "title": "Generalgouvernement", "text": "Generalgouvernement\n\nGeneralgouvernement is a German term that may refer to:\n"}
{"id": "2165120", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165120", "title": "Aterciopelados", "text": "Aterciopelados\n\nAterciopelados (), also referred to as Los Aterciopelados on some albums and other promotional materials, are a rock band from Colombia. Led by Andrea Echeverri and Héctor Buitrago, they have been one of the first rock bands from Colombia to gain international notice and they are among the country's top groups. Their music fuses rock with a variety of Colombian and Latin American musical traditions. \"Time\" magazine wrote that \"Aterciopelados's true skill lies in its ability to take north-of-the-border musical styles…and breathe new life into them, all while giving them a distinctly Colombian sheen.\"\nAdditionally, Aterciopelados engages audiences all over the world with their socially conscious message. Honored by the United Nations for their work denouncing violence in Colombia, Aterciopelados speaks out about myriad issues including political injustice, women's rights, and environmental destruction. The group has also received numerous awards, such as the Latin Grammy Award for Best Alternative Album in 2007, for \"Oye\" (Nacional Records). Their song Bolero Falaz topped a list of the 1000 most important songs of Colombian rock and other songs of theirs such as Maligno, El Estuche, Mujer Gala and Sortilegio ranked high in the list by Canal Viva Colombia. \nIn October 2008, Aterciopelados released their 7th album, \"Rio\", on Nacional Records. The album received rave reviews from publications like \"Rolling Stone\", the \"Washington Post\", \"Billboard\", and from NPR's \"All Things Considered\". As \"Vibe\" Magazine said, \"For Aterciopelados, maturity has become a form of liberation.\" The group toured United States in April 2009 to support \"Rio\".\n\nTheir most recent Album Claroscura from 2018, won the Latin Grammy Award for Best Alternative Album. \nadditionally the album Claroscura received the nomination to the grammy awards 2019 as Best Latin alternative, Urban album\n\nEssentially a collaboration between vocalist/guitarist Andrea Echeverri and bassist/arranger Héctor Buitrago, Aterciopelados has recorded eight albums since they originally teamed up in Bogotá, Colombia in the early 1990s as \"Delia y los Aminoácidos\". \"Héctor was an essential revelation in my personal and musical life\", said Andrea. \"He brought new aesthetics, unsuspected rebellion, and truckloads of music.\" Buitrago came from a hardcore punk background, heading up a group called La Pestilencia, while Echeverri had been drawn into the fledgling scene through art school friends. \"When I was young I listened to boogaloo by Richie Ray and later stuff like Led Zeppelin, Deep Purple, and Yes\", said Héctor. \"The first time I bought a bass guitar, I'd never had one in my hands before. I began to write songs by ear.\" Héctor and Andrea went on to open one of Bogotá's only rock clubs, and their relationship is one of Latin rock's most successful artistic partnerships.\n\nAterciopelados' first album, \"Con El Corazón en la Mano\" (\"With my Heart in my Hand\"), features crashing, \ndistorted guitars and a loud punk drumbeat.\nWith their second album, \"El Dorado\" (\"The Golden One\"), Aterciopelados began to expand their horizons, including traditional llanera rhythms of the Colombian countryside as \nwell as the rock–bolero sound of their first big hit, \"Bolero Falaz\" (\"Talkative Bolero\"). \"At first what we were doing was very elementary\", said Andrea. \"But since we've played out a lot, learned to compose, and made a few records, even though we haven't had a lot of formal training in music, we've just learned how to develop. We've done it in a very instinctive way, but I think it's very valid.\" The hit song \"Bolero Falaz\" not only had a strong rock-ballad feel, but it showcased Andrea's powerfully seductive voice, one influenced by her mother, who sang boleros, rancheras, and tangos, and the great legends of nueva canción, Iike Joan Manuel Serrat, Mercedes Sosa, and Pablo Milanés. The song broke the band on MTV Latin America and made them stars all over Latin America.\nTheir third album, \"La Pipa de la Paz\" (\"The Pipe of Peace\"), was recorded in London with legendary Roxy Music guitarist Phil Manzanera producing. The album's signature songs, \"Cosita Seria\" (\"A Little Something Serious\"), \"Chica Difícil\" (\"Difficult Girl\"), and \"Baracunatana\" were hard-driving Latin rock classics that defined Echeverri's coy, new-feminist attitude by teasing macho men. After releasing \"La Pipa de la Paz\", Aterciopelados was able to tour in the U.S., recording an MTV Unplugged appearance in early 1997.\nThe following year \"Caribe Atómico\" (\"Atomic Caribbean\"), which was recorded in Manhattan with guest appearances by guitarists Arto Lindsay and Marc Ribot, further expanded Aterciopelados' sound into the world of electronica.\n\n\"Gozo Poderoso\" (\"Powerful Joy\"), their fifth album, is a melodic, moody manifesto for the vibrantly eclectic Latin alternative movement. It is world music for a new world. Recorded in Bogotá and produced by Héctor Buitrago, this album led the way to independence and development of their own true sound. Following the album's release, Aterciopelados won a Latin Grammy award for Best Rock Group.\nA couple of years later came \"Evolución\", a collection of greatest hits.\n\nIn 1996, Aterciopelados performed \"Una Hoja, Una Raiz (One Leaf, One Root)\" along with Diego Frenkel and Laurie Anderson for the AIDS benefit album \"\" produced by the Red Hot Organization.\n\nIn 2006, Aterciopelados released \"Oye\" (\"Listen\") (Nacional Records), a return to the more organic, rock sound reminiscent of their earlier work on albums like \"La Pipa de la Paz\". Produced by Héctor Buitrago and mixed by Thom Russo (Johnny Cash, Juanes, Kinky and Illya Kuryaki), the album's first single, \"Complemento\", is an upbeat declaration of love from someone who has found her soulmate; the person who complements her. The album also features Aterciopelados' trademark social and political commentary on songs like \"Don Dinero\" (\"Mr. Money\"), which questions the idea of money as the solution to all problems, and \"Oye Mujer\" (\"Woman, Listen\") which asks of women, \"Are you a human being or the erotic fantasy of some guy?\" The band continues to win over audiences around the globe playing shows in Mexico, Central and South America, Europe and the U.S.\n\nAterciopelados' single and video \"Canción Protesta\" (\"Protest Song\") from the album \"Oye\" continues to make waves for its outspoken social and political commentary against war and injustice. The video features the group using guitars fashioned out of former machine guns – the special guitars were given to Aterciopelados by the United Nations in support of its efforts to take guns off the streets of Colombia.\n\nOn October 21, 2008, Aterciopelados released the album \"Rio\" (\"River\") on Nacional Records, aggressively building upon the creative momentum of \"Oye\". The album was recorded in Bogotá and mixed by Héctor Castillo (Brazilian Girls, David Bowie, Gustavo Cerati) in New York City. It is an impassioned, socially conscious record with the group's signature organic rock sound. The album's opener and title track is a call to action that finds Aterciopelados at a new level of creativity and musicality. It coincides with a proposed Colombian constitutional referendum that declares that access to clean drinking water is a fundamental right for all Colombians and provides for maintenance and preservation rights. \"Musically and lyrically, the track 'Rio' is unlike any previous Aterciopelados song\", Echeverri says. \"I'm even singing in a different way than in the past. With this one, we reached an entirely new place.\"\n\nIn \"Bandera\" (\"Flag\"), Aterciopelados speak out on immigration, another issue close to home. \"We have toured across the world many times, yet every time, certain countries give us so much trouble when entering\", Echeverri explains. \"My problems with traveling are so small compared to others across the world but I thought I could give all these people a voice.\" The album's guests range from rapper Gloria \"Goyo\" Martínez (of Colombian hip hop act Choc Quib Town) on \"28\", to the Andean group Kapary Walka on \"Madre\" (\"Mother\") and \"Aguita\" (\"Little Water\"), and even include Echeverri's daughter on \"Ataque de Risa\" (\"Laughing Fit\"). Aterciopelados launched an extensive tour of the United States in April 2009 in support of \"Rio\".\n\nIn addition to their many albums as \"Aterciopelados\", in 2005 and 2006 Echeverri and Buitrago made individual albums: Echeverri's self-titled \"Andrea Echeverri\" and Buitrago's \"ConEctor\". \"Andrea Echeverri\" is centered around Echeverri's experiences being pregnant, giving birth, nursing, and loving. \"ConEctor\", which translates both as \"with Héctor\" and \"connector\", connects musicians, ideas, paths, and results in a potent inner perspective of contemporary spirituality. It features several guest artists including Echeverri, Alex Ubago and Julieta Venegas.\n\nAterciopelados' album \"Rio\", released October 21, 2008, coincides with a proposed Colombian constitutional referendum that declares that access to water is a fundamental right for all Colombians and provides for maintenance and preservation rights. \"When I was growing up, the Bogotá River was considered a mythic and iconic place, and now it's a tiny stream,\" says Echeverri. With \"Rio\", Aterciopelados takes an increasingly forceful stand on the environment. Buitrago notes, \"While on previous albums, we may have simply declared many of the world's problems, we now strive to work in a more active way. In this case, it is with the recovery of Bogotá's river, as it is one of the most polluted rivers in the world.\"\n\nEcheverri sings that, \"The waters of the river come running, singing / They go through the city dreaming to be clean, to be clear.\" This theme is carried throughout the album. In the song \"Aguita\" (\"Water\"), Echeverri sings that \"the water belongs to everyone / Not to the highest bidder.\" In August, the band promoted awareness of the issue by traveling down the Bogotá River gathering signatures for the referendum. By September 15, over two million signatures had been collected, propelling the referendum to its next phase of the lengthy process.\nSince 2010 they have been organizing a global initiative called cantoalagua with the aim of promoting awareness about the importance of water on the planet http://www.cantoalagua.com\n\nAterciopelados have teamed up with Amnesty International and Link TV for a human rights project featuring a re-worked version of \"Cancion Protesta,\" the hit single from their 2006 album, \"Oye\". The song and music video will commemorate the 60th anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. It was re-written to address issues of human rights and is now titled \"The Price of Silence.\" The video will take place in the United Nations General Assembly (the United Nations has granted unprecedented access to the General Assembly for this project). Other artists involved include Stephen Marley (Jamaica), Gilberto Gil (Brazil), Angélique Kidjo (Benin), Yerba Buena (PanLatin), Julieta Venegas (Mexico), Emmanuel Jal (Sudan), Hugh Masekela (South Africa) and Rachid Taha (France/Algeria).\n\nIn Colombia, Aterciopelados is involved with the Destierro y Reparacion (Displacement and Reparations) project, which addresses the issue of displacement of native peoples — a huge issue in Colombia as well as many parts of the world. Promoted by the Museum of Antioquía, its goal is to generate social conscience concerning the dimension and implications of the forced displacement phenomenon as a reality affecting everyone and weakening social stability. Additionally, the project aims to identify possible methods and forms of reparation that would insure the application of fundamental rights that would include the recuperation of the culture of the affected communities. The project features discussions, workshops, exhibits and concerts and includes the participation of more than 20 institutions. Aterciopelados contributed the song \"Errante Diamante\" (Wandering Diamond) in support of the project.\n\nIn 1997 and 1998, they received Grammy nominations.\nAterciopelados won a Latin Grammy award in 2001 following the release of their album \"Gozo Poderoso\" for Best Rock Group.\n\nIn 2001, Aterciopelados was recognized by the writers of \"Time\" magazine as one of the top 10 contemporary global bands (those bands located outside of the United States.) The list included U2 and the Rolling Stones.\n\nIn 2007 they won the Latin Grammy award for Best Alternative Album for \"Oye\". They had received two Latin Grammy nominations that year, including Best Alternative Album for \"Oye\" (Nacional Records) and Best Alternative Song for the single \"Complemento.\"\n\n\"Oye\" also won the group a Premio Lo Nuestro award in 2008 for Album of the Year.\n\nIn 2010 at \"Premios Shock\" event, they received a tribute produced by Cesar Lopez and Julio Monroy, bands like Juan Galeano and EsteMan play their songs in this tribute.\n\n\n\n\nThe Grammy Award is an accolade by the National Academy of Recording Arts and Sciences of the United States to recognize outstanding achievement on the music industry. Aterciopelados has received five nominations. Andrea Echeverri in 2006 received her first solo nomination.\nA Latin Grammy Award is an accolade by the Latin Academy of Recording Arts & Sciences to recognize outstanding achievement in the music industry. Aterciopelados has received four awards from eight nominations. \n\nwww.aterciopelados.com\n"}
{"id": "2165132", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165132", "title": "Al-Harith ibn Abd al-Muttalib", "text": "Al-Harith ibn Abd al-Muttalib\n\nḤārith ibn Abdul-Muṭṭalib () was one of the uncles of the Islamic prophet Muhammad.\n\nHe was the son of Abd al-Muttalib ibn Hashim, of the Quraysh in Mecca, by his first wife, Sumra bint Jundab, who was from Hawazin tribe. For a long time his father, who took from him the \"kunya\" Abu al-Harith, had no other children.\n\nIt is said that al-Harith assisted Abd al-Muttalib with the excavation of the Zamzam Well by carrying away the dug earth.\n\nAl-Harith had many children by some wives.\n\nBy Ghaziyya bint Qays from Banu Muharib (al-Harith) ibn Fihr, he had five children:\n\n\nBy Sukhayla bint Khuza'i from Banu Thaqif, he had children:\n\n\nBy Safiyya bint al-Aswad ibn al-Muttalib, from Banu Asad ibn Abd-al-Uzza. By her, he had children:\n\n\nAl-Harith outlived his brother Abdullah, who died in late 570 or early 571, but he predeceased his father, who died in 579.\n\nAbdul-Muttalib said, that Ghaziyya bint Qays (ibn Tareef/Turayf ibn Abd-al-Uzza ibn Amir ibn Umayra ibn Wadi'a bin al-Harith ibn Fihr) was the eldest wife of his first son.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2165135", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165135", "title": "Star Wars Episode I: Jedi Power Battles", "text": "Star Wars Episode I: Jedi Power Battles\n\nStar Wars Episode I: Jedi Power Battles is an action Star Wars video game set during the time frame of \"\". The game was first released for the PlayStation, afterwards for the Dreamcast and the Game Boy Advance (in the last case under the title \"Star Wars: Jedi Power Battles\").\n\n\"Jedi Power Battles\" is a mix of a platform game and a beat 'em up. Emphasis is placed both on completing jumping sequences and defeating enemies. Players can choose from one of five prequel-era Jedi and run, jump, slash, and use the Force through the game's ten levels, starting on the Trade Federation Battleship and ending with the battle against Darth Maul on Naboo. The player's primary weapon is a lightsaber used to fight through waves of enemies and deflect blaster shots. The lightsaber combat is rather simplified with a system that lets the player lock on to the nearest enemy using the R1 button. Items and the force can also be used for special attacks. On most levels jumping puzzles make up a large portion of the challenge. There are a few segments in which the player can pilot various craft. The single player campaign can also be played in cooperative mode with a second player, while the Dreamcast version has an additional training mode and a two player duel mode. As players progress additional lightsaber combos and force powers are unlocked.\n\nFive primary characters are available for players to use; Jedi Padawan Obi-Wan Kenobi, and Jedi Masters Qui-Gon Jinn, Mace Windu, Adi Gallia and Plo Koon, with the latter two being unavailable in the Game Boy Advance version. Characters have specific lightsaber styles, force powers, weaknesses and strengths. The game features both characters and levels that can be unlocked by completing specific tasks in the game, such as completing the game with a specific character. Up to four additional unlockable characters are available, depending on platform. Queen Amidala of Naboo and Captain Panaka, head of the Queen's security forces, are the only two playable characters to utilize ranged weapons. Sith Apprentice Darth Maul and Jedi Master Ki-Adi Mundi are also unlockable. Four levels can be unlocked which offer players unique minigames.\n\nThe game loosely follows the plot of \"\". It begins as two Jedi are sent to negotiate an agreement between the corrupt Trade Federation and the royal government of Naboo. The meeting turns out to be a trap and the two Jedi manage to fight their way through battle droids on the Trade Federation ship. The pair eventually make it to the planet's surface, where they fight through the swamps that eventually lead to the streets of Naboo's capital city, Theed. In the ensuing battle the Jedi are forced to flee with Naboo's Queen Amidala and several trusted members of her court on her starship.\n\nThe group arrives on Tatooine, where they hope to acquire parts to repair the Queen's ship. The environment proves hostile, and the Jedi are forced to defend themselves against Tusken Raiders and an attack by a dark-robed assassin while the parts are acquired. The group eventually makes their way to Coruscant, where a group of criminals instigate an attack. The Jedi fight their way through the attackers to see the queen to the Galactic Senate building. Concerned for the welfare of her planet and finding no hope in the apathetic Senate, the Queen and Jedi return to Naboo to liberate the city of Theed from the control of the Trade Federation.\n\nNow allied with the Gungans of Naboo, the two Jedi fight their way through Gungan ruins to the city. They arrive and liberate a pair of droid STAPs. Utilizing the vehicle's limber controls and fast firing weaponry, they fight their way to the royal palace. Upon arriving the Jedi scale the side of the palace, using their force abilities to jump from platform to platform until they ascend to the top. Arriving, they find their progress blocked by the Sith apprentice Darth Maul, who had previously tried to kill them on Tatooine. The Sith engages the two Jedi as they push through the palace's generator complex. The Jedi gain the upper hand and Maul is defeated. The Jedi celebrate their victory with Boss Nass, leader of the Gungans, and Queen Amidala in a large celebration within the city of Theed.\n\n\"Jedi Power Battles\" was first unveiled in March 2000 via a gameplay trailer. Following the PlayStation release, developers sought to make improvements for the then upcoming Dreamcast version. Amongst improvements were 60 frames per second gameplay, tweaks to platforming sections, and a bugfix that ensured unlockable character Darth Maul would use both blades of his lightsaber, unlike his single blade on the PlayStation. Improvements in character animation were also made, and the game runs on a higher resolution. Characters were developed to have not only unique force abilities and lightsaber combos, but also lightsaber colors as well. Three characters had not yet had an on-screen appearance wielding their lightsabers. Jedi Masters Mace Windu, Adi Gallia and Plo Koon utilize blue, crimson and yellow lightsabers in the game, respectively. Windu would go on to change to a purple color for his saber in \"\".\n\nLevel design began with what designer Michael Stuart Licht referred to as spatial studies. Design began with paper cut outs of various rooms. Licht would rearrange these rooms until he found a design that he felt worked. The papers had design ideas written on them so that other developers could understand the overall flow of each level. Bubble diagrams were then created which represented main ideas for each space. This was followed by various stages of overview drawings and other drawing studies. 3D level design began after such studies were completed.\n\nThe game was met with mixed to positive reception upon release. GameRankings and Metacritic gave it a score of 74.73% and 76 out of 100 for the Dreamcast version; 56.96% and 58 out of 100 for the Game Boy Advance version; and 56.93% for the PlayStation version. The game placed 30th in \"Game Informer\"'s top 30 \"Star Wars\" games list.\n\nReviewers were critical of the game's high difficulty. In the book \"\", author Rob Smith said the media had a \"tepid response\" to the game's difficult control system. Edwin Evans-Thirlwell of \"Vice\" magazine expressed fondness for the game's cooperative mode. He noted that while the game was \"dreadful\" he praised the incentive for two players to work together to complete the game. He cited modern games such as those in the \"Call of Duty\" series, noting that with online play the desire to work as a team is lessened. This in turn brought his point that \"Jedi Power Battles\" provides an opportunity for two people to sit together and truly cooperatively work through the game.\n\nJeff Lundrigan reviewed the PlayStation version of the game for \"Next Generation\", rating it two stars out of five, and stated that \"This game really needed a few more months of playtesting and balancing. As it is, this is best approached as an exercise in anger management.\"\n\nChris Charla reviewed the Dreamcast version of the game for \"Next Generation\", rating it three stars out of five, and stated that \"\"Super Empire Strikes Back\" this isn't, but if you're looking for a hack-and-slash time killer, it'll satisfy.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2165136", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165136", "title": "Abu Sufyan ibn al-Harith", "text": "Abu Sufyan ibn al-Harith\n\nAbū Sufyān ibn al-Ḥārith ibn ‘Abd al-Muṭṭalib (), born al-Mughīrah (), was a companion and first cousin of the Islamic prophet Muhammad.\n\nHe was the son of Al-Harith ibn Abdulmuttalib. He was wet-nursed for a few days by Halimah bint Abi Dhuayb, making him a foster-brother of Muhammad.\n\nHe married his cousin, Jumanah bint Abi Talib, and they had a son, Ja'far. He also married another cousin, Umm 'Amr bint al-Muqawwim, and they had a daughter, Atika. This may be the same daughter who later married Abu Sufyan's nephew Abdul-Muttalib (son of Rabi'ah ibn al-Harith).\n\nIn their youth, Abu Sufyan and Muhammad were close friends; but as soon as Muhammad declared himself a prophet in 610, Abu Sufyan “treated him with enmity as no one before him.\" As he later explained it: \"We were with a community, a people of high-mindedness. I saw the excellence of the people who lived with their discernment and opinion. They went through a mountain pass, and we followed. Then the people of nobility and age began to break away from Muhammad, and they helped their gods and defended their forefathers, and we followed them.\"\n\n\"He showed hatred toward the Prophet for twenty years, never remaining behind when the Quraysh set out to fight Muhammad.\" He fought at the Battle of Badr on the side of the polytheists. He was one of the first to arrive back in Mecca with the news of their defeat. As he told his uncle, Abu Lahab: \"As soon as we met the party we turned our backs and they were killing and capturing us just as they pleased; and by God I don't blame the people for that. We met men in white on piebald horses between heaven and earth, and, by Allah, they spared nothing, and none could withstand them.\"\n\nHe also wrote satirical poems against Muhammad and the Muslims and insulted Hassan ibn Sabit:\n\n<poem>\"Who will deliver a message to Hassan from me?\"\n\"I think you are one of the most evil of destitute men.\"\n\"Your father is the father of evil, and your uncle is the same.\"\n\"You are not better than your father and your uncle.\"</poem>\n\nHassan asked Muhammad's permission to compose counter-insults, promising to withdraw Muhammad's own name from the hostile sentiments, and permission was given.\n\nIn January 626 Muhammad led the final expedition to Badr, an appointment for a pitched battle between the Quraysh and the Muslims. The battle did not take place because the Meccan army never arrived. Hassan ibn Thabit composed a poem about the situation:\n\n<poem>\"We stayed by the shallow well eight nights\"\n\"… Take Abu Sufyan [ibn Harb] a message from me,\"\n\"for you are the best of a bad lot.\"</poem>\n\nAbu Sufyan ibn al-Harith composed an answer:\n\n<poem>\"O Hassan, son of a moldy date-eating woman,\"\n\"… you stayed by the shallow well wanting us\"\n\"and you left us in the palm-groves hard by.\"\n\"Our horses and camels walked on the crops\"\n\"and what they trod on they drove into the soft sand\"\n\"… Don't describe your fine horses,\"\n\"but speak of them as one who holds them firmly back.\"\n\"You rejoice in them, but that is the right of others,\"\n\"the horsemen of the sons of Fihr [Quraysh].\"</poem>\n\nAfter the slaying of the Qurayza tribe in 627, Hassan ibn Thabit composed a poem to the effect that they had gone to Hell. Abu Sufyan responded with a counter-poem:\n\n<poem>\"May Allah make that deed immortal,\"\n\"May fire burn in its quarters!\"\n\"You shall know which of us is far [from Hellfire]\"\n\"and which of our lands will be harmed.\"\n\"Had the palms therein been horsemen,\"\n\"they would have said, \"You have no place here, be off!\"\"</poem>\n\nIn 628 an Arab merchant gave a report of Muhammad to the Emperor Heraclius. This person, who claimed to be Muhammad's \"nearest kin\" among the party, is usually identified as Abu Sufyan ibn Harb; but Abu Sufyan ibn Al-Harith also claimed to have been present. He said: \"I did not see myself with [Heraclius], while I had fled from Islam, yet knowing only Muhammad. Thus Islam entered me, and I realised the error of polytheism.\"\n\nOn the eve of the Conquest of Mecca in 630, Abu Sufyan decided to become a Muslim. Jumanah responded: \"Finally, you see that Bedouins and foreigners have followed Muhammad, while you have been his confirmed foe! You should have been the first person to assist him!\" Abu Sufyan urged his slave Madhkur to hurry saddling the camels and horse to meet Muhammad's army at al-Abwa. Together with Jumanah, Ja’far and his cousin Abdullah ibn Abi Umayya, he travelled in disguise and in fear of his life, \"for my blood was permitted.\"\n\nWhen Muhammad's camel appeared, Abu Sufyan tried to make eye contact with his cousin, but Muhammad turned his face away. Abu Sufyan turned to the direction of his face, but Muhammad kept turning away. Abu Sufyan worried that he would be killed in revenge for his past hostility, although he hoped that Muhammad would be pleased about his conversion because of their original friendship. The other Muslims, including Abu Bakr, all followed Muhammad's example in turning away from Abu Sufyan, and Numan ibn Al-Harith, encouraged by Umar, followed him, taunting: \"O enemy of Allah, you harm Allah’s Messenger and his companions. Your enmity to him is known all over the world!\"\n\nAbu Sufyan appealed to his uncle Abbas for intercession, but Abbas said it would be useless. He then tried Ali, his brother-in-law, with a similar result. Abu Sufyan began to follow Muhammad's camp, sitting at Muhammad's tent door wherever he stopped, but he was ignored. At Niqu'l-‘Uqab Muhammad's wife Umm Salama, who was Abdullah's sister, urged him to receive them. “All the Quraysh were saying similar things, and you have forgiven people who are more criminal than he is.\" Muhammad replied: \"I have no use for them. As for [Abu Sufyan], he has wounded my pride; and as for [Abdullah], he spoke insultingly of me in Mecca.\" When Abu Sufyan heard this message, he responded: \"By Allah, he must let me in, or I will take this little boy of mine and we will wander through the land until we die of hunger and thirst.\" This continued while Muhammad entered Mecca and became victorious. In Mecca Jumanah entered Muhammad's tent with some other visitors, and she was able to speak to him, but still he did not speak to Abu Sufyan.\n\nFinally Abu Sufyan followed Muhammad to the Battle of Hunayn. When the enemy approached, he jumped off his horse, sword in hand, wishing (as he later said) to die for Muhammad. When many of the Muslims fled, Abbas took the rein of Muhammad's grey mule, and Abu Sufyan took the other side. Muhammad asked who his defender was, and Abu Sufyan removed his helmet. Abbas said: \"It's your brother and cousin, Abu Sufyan, so regard him with favour!\" Muhammad replied: \"I do. May Allah forgive him all his enmity toward me!\" Abu Sufyan kissed his foot in the stirrup, and Muhammad declared, \"This is my brother, upon my life!\" Then Muhammad instructed Abbas to call back the Muslim army, and they attacked their ambushers. He later said that for this act of loyalty, Abu Sufyan and his family were guaranteed Paradise.\n\nMuhammad took a formal declaration of faith from both Abu Sufyan and Abdullah ibn Abi Umayya. Abu Sufyan composed a poem to explain his previous reluctance to convert.\n\n<poem>\"By thy life, when I carried a banner\"\n\"To give al-Lat’s cavalry the victory over Muhammad,\"\n\"I was like one going astray in the darkness of the night,\"\n\"But now I am led on the right track.\"\n\"I could not guide myself, and he who with Allah overcame me\"\n\"Was he whom I had driven away with all my might.\"</poem>\n[At this point, Muhammad punched his chest and said, \"You did indeed!\"]\n<poem>\"I used to do all I could to keep men from Muhammad,\"\n\"And I was called a relative of his, though I did not claim the relation.\"\n\"They are what they are. He who does not hold with them\"\n\"Though he be a man of sense is blamed and given the lie.\"\n\"I wanted to be on good terms with them [the Muslims],\"\n\"But I could not join them while I was not guided.\"</poem>\nAbu Sufyan became “the best of Muslims” and “nothing bad was said about him”. Muhammad assigned him a pension of 100 \"wasqs\" from Khaybar.\n\nThree days before his death, Abu Sufyan dug his own grave in Al-Baqi' near the house of Aqeel ibn Abi Talib. His date of death is disputed: one source places it in February 641, another in 652. Umar presided over his funeral prayers.\n\n"}
{"id": "2165138", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165138", "title": "Language Teaching (journal)", "text": "Language Teaching (journal)\n\nLanguage Teaching is an academic journal in language education that publishes approximately 30 research articles a year in the field of second-language teaching and learning. Published by Cambridge University Press, papers focus on specific topics, languages and countries. There are also replication, research articles, survey of doctoral dissertations, topic based research timelines, key conference speeches, comparative book reviews, research reports from organizations and colloquia, and an annual round-up of the most significant work published on second-language teaching and learning.\n\nIt was founded in 1968, first titled as \"English Teaching Abstracts.\" The title was soon changed to \"Language-Teaching Abstracts\" (UK 0023-8279) until 1975. From 1975 to 1982, it was known as \"Language Teaching and Linguistics Abstracts\" (UK 0306-6304).\n\nThis journal is currently indexed in: \n\nThe journal has ties with The National Centre for Languages (CiLT) and the British Council through its Editorial Board.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2165146", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165146", "title": "Gordon Anderson", "text": "Gordon Anderson\n\nGordon Anderson may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2165152", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165152", "title": "Resistance swimming", "text": "Resistance swimming\n\nResistance swimming is a form of swimming exercise undertaken either for athletic or therapeutic purposes. In optimal circumstances, it lends itself to any stroke the swimmer wishes to perform. Resistance swimming can be carried out either against the pull of a \"tether\" or against the flow of water artificially set in motion by means of a \"swimming machine.\"\n\nIn its most simple form, it consists of swimming while being held relatively stationary by a flexible restraining device, such as a harness or a foot restraint. This training method is used by a number of swim teams, such as the ones at Purdue University, University of Indianapolis, Florida State University and the University of Florida. Likewise, Special Forces Scuba Team members at Fort Bragg use a commercial restraining device in their personal training for open water swimming. Users often indicate that it takes a certain amount of time to learn to compensate for the feeling of swimming against a restraint. However, for those who have familiarized themselves with these systems, tethers enable the swimmer to swim at any speed, even flat-out sprints, and to vary the speed at will.\n\n\"Tethered swimming,\" as this method is known, has been in use since the middle of the twentieth century, and has undergone a gradual evolution. Initially the swimmers were restrained by a rope, which was eventually supplanted by interlocked bicycle inner tubes or surgical tubing. Presently the systems in use employ either bungee cords or coiled lines to provide the shock-absorption necessary for a comfortable swim. Attachment methods also vary. Some devices restrain the swimmer by means of a belt, others wrap around the ankles, and still others connect to specially modified water shoes.\n\nThese swimming machines straddle the difference between traditional tethers and mechanical swimming machines. As a result, they combine the advantages of both, with a couple of drawbacks. They share the self-contained aspect of counter-current swimming machines with the low cost, simplicity and freedom of movement of tether systems. They are not strictly speaking \"still-water pools\" since the movements of the swimmer actually induce a gentle current of water which permits a more natural swimming experience. There are no energy costs (other than the water quality system) with these machines, as they use no electricity for swimming. While they are valuable for aerobic exercise, endurance and strength training, and for stroke practice, they cannot replicate open water conditions. Thus, for competition training they have to be complemented with open-water practice.\n\nAnother form of resistance swimming is that in which the swimmer is unrestrained and the water is set in motion by means of mechanical devices, such as jets, propellers or paddle wheels. Such an apparatus is also known as a \"countercurrent swimming machine\", of which a number are presently available commercially. A prototype machine was used by the Columbia University swim team in the late 1980s.\n\nSwimming machines made their appearance in the 1970s, initially in the form of jetted streams. Some of these were criticized for causing turbulence and an un-natural swimming environment. They were followed by paddle-wheel and propeller-driven machines, which were popularized by Endless Pools. These generated a smoother stream of water. Many users find them easy to swim in, but the machines are also criticized for being expensive, noisy, and wasteful of energy (consuming 6.5 kW to 11 kW of electricity just to set the water in motion).\n\nFinally, there are exercise machines which allow a person to remain on dry land while simulating certain swimming strokes. These devices however can not compensate for the weight of the body and the limbs and thus deprive the user of the benefits of exercise in an aquatic environment.\n\n"}
{"id": "2165153", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165153", "title": "Khanjar", "text": "Khanjar\n\nA khanjar (, , , , ) is a traditional dagger originating from Oman. Worn by men for ceremonial occasions, it is a short curved sword shaped like the letter \"J\" and resembles a hook. It can be made from a variety of different materials, depending on the quality of its craftsmanship. It is a popular souvenir among tourists and is sold in souqs throughout the region. A national symbol of the sultanate, the \"khanjar\" is featured on Oman's national emblem and on the Omani rial. It also features in logos and commercial imagery by companies based in Oman.\n\nAlthough it is not known when the Omani \"khanjar\" was first created, rock carvings epitomizing the dagger were found on gravestones located in the central part of the Ru’us al Jibal region. These are believed to have predated the Wahhabi revival, which occurred in the late 1700s. They were also mentioned in an account by Robert Padbrugge of the Dutch Republic, who journeyed to Muscat in June 1672.\n\nThe Ottoman Empire spread further the use of this type of knife. In the Balkans, where it was known as \"Handschar\", such knives were regularly carried by Ottoman policemen, and it remained in local use also after the end of Ottoman rule. During the Second World War, the knife's name was bestowed on the 13th Waffen Mountain Division of the SS Handschar (1st Croatian), composed of Bosnian Muslims (ethnic Bosniaks) with some Catholic Croat soldiers; the knife also appeared on the division's emblem.\nThe word خنجر appears to be the arabized version of the Persian word خونگر.\nDepending on the quality of its craftsmanship, the Omani \"khanjar\" can be made using a variety of different metals and other materials. Gold or silver would be used to make \"khanjar\" of the finest quality (e.g. for royalty), while brass and copper would be utilized for daggers made by local craftsmen. For instance, a sheath adorned with gold was historically limited to the Omani upper class. White or Ivory handled and sheathed ones are preferred by the Sayyids or Hashemites symbolising their status in society. \"Najeeb Altarfayn Saadah\" in Oman and Arabia usually carry two of them. Traditionally, the dagger is designed by its future owner himself, with the craftsman taking into account the \"specifications\" and \"preferences\" stipulated by the former. The time it takes to manufacture a \"khanjar\" can range from three weeks to several months.\n\nThe most elemental sections of the \"khanjar\" are its handle and blade, with the material utilized in the former playing a significant role influencing the final price of the dagger. Rhinoceros horn and ivory were once the common standard, as it was \"considered the best material\" to make the hilt out of. However, with the international ban on the ivory trade and rhinoceros horn, the usage of other materials such as wood, plastic, and camel bone has become more prevalent. Typically, the top of the hilt is flat, but the one designed for the royal family is in the shape of a cross.\n\nThe Omani \"khanjar\" is tucked underneath a waist belt and is situated at the front and centre of the wearer's body. It used to form part of everyday attire; however, it is now carried as a \"ceremonial dagger\", and worn only for formal events and ceremonies – such as weddings, parades, meetings, and diplomatic functions – among many other occasions. Labelled a \"ubiquitous sign of masculinity\" by John M. Willis in \"The Arab Studies Journal\", the \"khanjar\" is a symbol of \"manhood, power and authority\", as well as serving as a status symbol for the person wearing it. As a result, it is sometimes given by families to their sons when they reach adolescence, and is a common wedding gift to the groom.\n\nAlthough the \"khanjar\" was originally created as a weapon to attack and defend, it is utilized solely for ceremonial and practical purposes today. The latter situation would occur in the desert, where it is used as a tool for hunting and skinning animals, as well as for slicing ropes. Because of this development, it is now considered a \"social taboo\" in Oman to pull out one's \"khanjar\" from its scabbard without blooding it, since the only time men would do this would be to seek vengeance or to defend oneself.\n\nWhile the \"khanjar\" is most prevalent in Oman given its symbolic status there, it is also worn by men in Yemen and the United Arab Emirates, forming an integral component of \"traditional dress\" in those countries. It can also be found and is sold in other Persian Gulf states, such as the Souq Waqif in Doha, Qatar. The \"khanjar\" is a popular keepsake among tourists, and is the Sultanate's best-selling memento.\n\nAs the \"khanjar\" is a national symbol of Oman, it is featured on the sultanate's national emblem. It has been a symbol on the royal crest of the Al Said dynasty since the 18th century, which subsequently became the national emblem. It is also depicted on the Omani rial – the country's currency – specifically on the one rial note, as well as on postage stamps issued by the sultanate. Furthermore, there are statues of \"khanjar\" on buildings housing government ministries and at various roundabouts throughout the country.\n\nThe \"khanjar\" was previously shown prominently on the logo and planes of Oman Air – the country's flag carrier – until it was removed under a rebranding in 2008. The logo of Omantel also illustrates a stylized khanjar; it was retained in the logotype's motif after the telecommunications company merged with Oman Mobile in 2010. Moreover, the perfume company Amouage, which is owned by the Sultan of Oman and his royal family, incorporates the dagger into the design of its bottles. The cap on its \"Gold for Men\" perfume bottle resembles the handle of a \"khanjar\", complementing the \"Gold for Women\" cap which evokes the dome of Ruwi Mosque.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2165157", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165157", "title": "Rune Bratseth", "text": "Rune Bratseth\n\nRune Bratseth (born 19 March 1961) is a Norwegian former footballer who played as a sweeper.\n\nNicknamed \"Elk\" due to his stature, he is best known for his spell with Werder Bremen, also having appeared in the 1994 World Cup with Norway.\n\nBorn in Trondheim, Bratseth started his career at local club Rosenborg BK. There, he would only be a part-time professional until he left for Germany's SV Werder Bremen in January 1987, for a mere €93.000. He was immediately cast into the starting XI, making his club debut in a 1–5 loss at 1. FC Nürnberg on 21 February after the winter break; he would also win the first of his two Bundesliga championships in his first full season.\n\nBratseth's finest moment came when Werder won the UEFA Cup Winners' Cup in 1991–92, in a 2–0 victory against AS Monaco FC. During the campaign he played in eight complete matches out of nine, adding two goals (in both legs against Romania's FCM Bacău).\n\nAfter a second league title with Bremen, Bratseth began suffering knee problems, even needing injections to play. After only one match in 1994–95 he called it quits at the age of 34, having appeared in 316 games for the Hanseatics all competitions comprised and scored 20 goals. In the 1993–94 UEFA Champions League, he was on the scoresheet at the incredible 5–3 home win over R.S.C. Anderlecht: the Belgians led 3–0 with 25 minutes to go, and he helped to the final comeback with the 2–3.\n\nBratseth was named Norway's Golden Player – the best Norwegian footballer of the past 50 years by the Norwegian Football Association, in November 2003, to celebrate UEFA's jubilee. Subsequently he became chairman and general manager of Rosenborg, forming a successful partnership with coach Nils Arne Eggen. The club maintained its Norwegian top division superiority in the following years.\n\nBratseth was actually registered as a player when he started his job at Rosenborg, and since the club did not have 25 players in its first team squad to be registered for the UEFA Champions League, he was included as a backup. Even though he did not want to play, he agreed to sit on the bench for one game in case of \"emergency\".\n\nHe was clocked at 4,69 seconds on the 40 metres sprint, which is one of the fastest times ran by a Norwegian football player.\n\nBratseth made his debut in the Norway national team on 26 February 1986, playing the first half of a 2–1 friendly win in Grenada. He was a regular in the following eight years, earning a further 59 caps.\n\nDuring the 1994 FIFA World Cup, 33-year-old Bratseth was captain of the Norwegian squad. As they exited in the group stage (albeit with four points), their third and last game against Republic of Ireland proved to be his last international.\n\nRosenborg\n\nWerder Bremen\n\nIndividual\n\n"}
{"id": "2165158", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165158", "title": "William Bonner", "text": "William Bonner\n\nBill Bonner may refer to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2165161", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165161", "title": "List of busiest airports by international passenger traffic", "text": "List of busiest airports by international passenger traffic\n\nThe following is a list of the world's largest airports by international passenger traffic.\n\nAirports Council International's (January–December) preliminary figures are as follows.\n\nAirports Council International's (January–December) preliminary figures are as follows.\n\nAirports Council International's (January–December) preliminary figures are as follows.\nAirports Council International's (January–December) figures are as follows.\n\nAirports Council International's (January–December) figures are as follows.\n\nAirports Council International's (January–December) figures are as follows.\n\nAirports Council International's (January–December) figures are as follows.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2165164", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165164", "title": "English River, Ontario", "text": "English River, Ontario\n\nEnglish River is an unincorporated place on the border of geographic Corman Township, Kenora District and the Unorganized Part of Thunder Bay District in Northwestern Ontario, Canada. It was a Hudson's Bay Company trading post between 1894 and 1911, and is located where Ontario Highway 17 crosses the English River at its confluence with the Scotch River.\n\nEnglish River is also the name of a nearby railway point, to the southwest and wholly within Corman Township, Kenora District (), constructed as part of the Canadian Pacific Railway transcontinental main line.\n\nOther map sources:\n"}
{"id": "2165174", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165174", "title": "Columbia International University", "text": "Columbia International University\n\nColumbia International University (CIU) is a private Christian university in Columbia, South Carolina.\n\nCIU began in 1923 when it was founded as Columbia Bible School. The original purpose was to provide a two-year course of study in biblical studies for local mill workers. By 1927, the decision was made to convert the school into a college and begin offering bachelor's degrees in Bible. A location in downtown Columbia was established and the first dean (later president) of the college was chosen. The school continued to grow and eventually required a new campus. The college was relocated in 1960 to its present facility on Monticello Road. It was during the 1960s that the institution’s longest serving president, Robertson McQuilkin, son of the first dean of Columbia Bible College, was inaugurated. During this period, the institution also changed its name to Columbia Bible College and Seminary. The name was changed yet again in 1994 to Columbia International University to highlight the growing educational mission as well as to demonstrate a commitment to preparing students from all parts of the world for global Christian service.\n\nCIU has five colleges: the College of Arts & Sciences, the College of Counseling, the College of Education, the College of Intercultural Studies, and the Seminary & School of Ministry. Because of the closely knit nature of the institution and the emphasis on Christian education and biblical studies regardless of major, many of the colleges share faculty members.\n\nAs an institution of higher education, CIU’s primary emphasis is on its academic programs. Like most other Christian colleges, the traditional academic emphasis has been placed on the humanities and liberal arts rather than natural sciences, in addition to strong emphasis on ministerial and biblical studies, even at the undergraduate level. This is evidenced by the fact that there are undergraduate majors relating directly to ministerial skills but no programs in the sciences. A Business & Organizational Leadership major was added in 2012.\n\nCIU is accredited by the Commission on Colleges of the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools for its undergraduate and graduate programs and is listed as a Level V school, meaning that it offers three or fewer doctoral degrees. CIU is also accredited by the Commission on Accreditation of the Association for Biblical Higher Education with its next ten year review in 2029. The seminary is accredited by the Association of Theological Schools in the United States and Canada to award the Master of Divinity, the Master of Arts and the Doctor of Ministry. The Graduate School is also accredited by the South Carolina Department of Education to offer graduate degrees in early childhood and elementary education leading to certification as a teacher in State of South Carolina.\n\nLike most evangelical schools and many seminaries, CIU does have doctrinal affirmations and lifestyle standards which all students (regardless of degree sought) are expected to affirm as a part of admission.\n\nThere are seven doctrinal points which students must assent to as a part of their admission to and candidacy for a degree from CIU. These are biblical inspiration, natural separation of humanity from God, salvation by grace through faith in Christ, the historical doctrine of the Trinity, the bodily resurrection of Christ from the dead, the indwelling of the Holy Spirit in the believer, and the evangelical mandate to witness to the gospel of Christ. Additionally, the doctrine of Premillennialism is officially held by the school, but students are not required to adhere to this doctrine. CIU requires all teaching faculty to affirm Premillennialism.\n\nCIU holds to a goal of spiritual formation in preparation for life after college. Students are required to sign a covenant form agreeing to keep various lifestyle standards established by the university. Some of the standards include prohibition from alcohol and tobacco. Students are required to complete a Spiritual Growth and Self Assessment – a narrative of a student’s spiritual journey during the year. Though not required during summer and winter breaks, students are expected to maintain CIU lifestyle standards.\n\nThe standards have been a point of contention for many years. While not actively publicized, a complete handbook is available for viewing at .\n\nIn the spring semester of 2007, one of the most contentious standards, the \"physical expression of affection\" standard (dating couples may not hold hands or kiss, but may only hug briefly) was revised to allow for more freedom of physical expressions (couples dating seriously are now allowed to hold hands and kiss briefly).\n\nCIU is not directly affiliated or sponsored by any single denomination though welcomes all students from any number of evangelical Christian denominations and somewhat more loosely, any Protestant denomination.\n\nWhile CIU does have enrolled students and faculty who are members of Christian communities which would not typically be identified as evangelical Protestant, it does require that \"all faculty and staff belong to a local Protestant church\". This policy was enforced some years ago when one faculty member, Dr. Edward Rommen, was removed from his seminary teaching post upon his conversion to Eastern Orthodoxy and reception into the Orthodox Church in America. Prior to his removal from the faculty, Dr. Rommen was a prominent member of the Evangelical Free Church of America.\n\nThe following affiliations are typically represented on campus:\n\nWhile the primary mission of CIU is to provide an evangelical higher education to its students, the corporate entity also includes Ben Lippen School.\n\nBen Lippen is a private, interdenominational Christian school located on the CIU campus. It was founded as a boarding school in Asheville, North Carolina in the 1940s, but was moved to its current location in 1988, offering middle and high school programs. An elementary school away from the main CIU campus was begun in 1989, and in 2006 a main elementary school campus was completed on CIU grounds and classes began there in August. The schools are co-educational and feature a mix of commuting and resident students. The curriculum mirrors most public institutions with the exception of teaching subject from an evangelical Christian worldview and the inclusion of Bible classes and chapel for students, faculty, and staff. In 2013, there were nearly 800 students enrolled at the school.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2165179", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165179", "title": "Rene Requiestas", "text": "Rene Requiestas\n\nRenato \"Rene\" L. Requiestas (January 22, 1957 – July 24, 1993) was a Filipino actor and comedian. Requiestas was one of the top Filipino comedians of the late 1980s up to the early 1990s. Requiestas was known for his sidekick roles alongside other comedy actors such as Joey de Leon and his pairing with Kris Aquino in romantic comedies, as well as his distinctive gaunt, toothless appearance.\n\nRequiestas died on July 24, 1993 at the age of 36.\n\nRene Requiestas adopted a daughter in late 1990 and named her Krisnee, taken from his and Kris Aquino's names. She was born on November 11, 1989 to Requiestas' distant relatives, but due to their difficulty in raising numerous children, Requiestas decided to adopt the child as his own.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2165181", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165181", "title": "Converse College", "text": "Converse College\n\nConverse College is a private university in Spartanburg, South Carolina. It consists of an undergraduate women's college as well as coeducational graduate, online, and summer programs. It was established in 1889 by a group of Spartanburg residents and named after textile pioneer Dexter Edgar Converse.\n\nConverse College opened on October 1, 1890, with a student body of 168 and 16 faculty members. The college operated as a \"stock company\" with the board of directors composed entirely of residents of Spartanburg. Dexter Edgar Converse, a native of Vermont who had settled in Spartanburg before the American Civil War and had become a successful pioneer in the cotton mill industry, served as the head of the first board of directors. On January 2, 1892, fire destroyed the college's main building. The building was enlarged during its reconstruction. In 1896, the college was incorporated in South Carolina and a self-perpetuating board of trustees was named. In 1964, the college introduced graduate programs.\n\nThe Converse College Historic District was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1975. It encompasses eight contributing buildings dated between 1891 and 1915. They are the Main Building (Wilson Hall) (1892), Annex (Pell Hall, 1891), Twichell Auditorium (1898–1899), Carnegie Library (1905), Cleveland House (c. 1905), Judd Science Hall (1915), Dexter Hall (1899) and Towne House (1898). The buildings are representative of the Romanesque Revival, Gothic Revival, and Neo-Classical styles.\n\nThe college plans to change its name to \"Converse University\" in the summer of 2021. The college also plans to \"expand its undergraduate residential program from single-gender to co-ed\" by admitting male undergraduate students for the fall of 2021.\n\nConverse College has an undergraduate enrollment of about 800 women. The graduate enrollment of about 550 students is made up of both men and women.\n\nThe academic programs are organized in the following departments:\n\nConverse College teams participate as a member of the National Collegiate Athletic Association's Division II. The Valkyries are a member of the Conference Carolinas. Women's sports include acrobatics and tumbling, basketball, cross country, equestrian, field hockey, lacrosse, soccer, softball, track and field, golf, tennis, swimming and volleyball.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2165187", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165187", "title": "Akib ibn Usaid", "text": "Akib ibn Usaid\n\nAkib ibn Usaid, a sahaba of Muhammad, was the first governor of Mecca. It was the first permanent civil appointment made in Islam. Akib took charge of his duties as governor of Mecca in January 630.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2165189", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165189", "title": "Division of Kingsford Smith", "text": "Division of Kingsford Smith\n\nThe Division of Kingsford Smith is an Australian electoral division in the state of New South Wales.\n\nThe division is named after Sir Charles Kingsford Smith, a pioneer aviator, and the first pilot to fly across the Pacific Ocean. The Kingsford Smith International Airport (Sydney International), and the suburb of Kingsford, both of which are located within the division, are also named after him. The division was proclaimed at the redistribution of 11 May 1949, and was first contested at the 1949 federal election.\n\nKingsford Smith has been in Labor hands for its entire existence. A redistribution ahead of the 1969 election made it one of the safest Labor seats in both Sydney and the nation, and it remained a comfortably safe Labor seat for most of the next four decades. However, demographic changes since 2010 have made the seat much less secure for Labor. It has previously been held by Lionel Bowen, a minister in the Whitlam government, Deputy Leader of the Labor Party from 1977 to 1990 and Deputy Prime Minister for most of the Hawke government, and by Laurie Brereton, a minister in the Keating government. It was then held by Peter Garrett, a former lead singer of the Australian rock band Midnight Oil, former President of the Australian Conservation Foundation, and a minister in the Rudd and Gillard governments. Garrett announced his retirement on 26 June 2013.\n\nThe Division was originally known as the Division of Kingsford-Smith (with a hyphen), based upon a misspelling of Sir Charles's surname. However, this was corrected at the redistribution in 2001.\n\nThe current Member for Kingsford Smith, since the 2013 federal election, is Matt Thistlethwaite, a member of the Australian Labor Party who resigned from the Senate prior to the election.\n\nThe division is located in the south-eastern suburbs of Sydney, on the north shore of Botany Bay, and the coast of the Tasman Sea. The division includes the suburbs of Banksmeadow, Botany, Chifley, Coogee, Daceyville, East Botany, Eastgardens, Eastlakes, Hillsdale, Kensington, Kingsford, La Perouse, Little Bay, Malabar, Maroubra, Maroubra Junction, Mascot, Matraville, Pagewood, Phillip Bay, Port Botany, and South Coogee; as well as parts of Clovelly, Randwick, and Rosebery. Bare Island, Prince Henry Hospital, and the University of New South Wales are also located in the electorate.\n\n"}
{"id": "2165190", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165190", "title": "Columbia (name)", "text": "Columbia (name)\n\nColumbia (; ) is the female personification of the United States. It was also a historical name applied to the Americas and to the New World. The association has given rise to the names of many American places, objects, institutions and companies; such as: Columbia University, the District of Columbia (U.S. capital), \"Hail, Columbia\" (unofficial national and official vice-presidential anthem), as well as the ship \"Columbia Rediviva\", which would give its name to the Columbia River. Images of the Statue of Liberty (erected in 1886) largely displaced personified Columbia as the female symbol of the United States by around 1920, although Lady Liberty was seen as an aspect of Columbia. \n\n\"Columbia\" is a New Latin toponym, in use since the 1730s with reference to the thirteen (or more) colonies of British America. It originated from the name of Italian explorer Christopher Columbus and from the ending \"-ia\", common in Latin names of countries (paralleling Britannia, Gallia, and others).\n\nThe earliest type of personification of the Americas, seen in European art from the 16th century onwards, reflected the tropical regions in South and Central America from which the earliest travellers reported back. These were most often used in sets of female personifications of the Four Continents. America was depicted as a woman who, like Africa, was only partly dressed, typically in bright feathers, which invariably formed her headress. She often held a parrot, was seated on a caiman or alligator, with a cornucopia. Sometimes a severed head was a further attribute, or in prints scenes of cannibalism were seen in the background.\n\nThough versions of this depiction, tending as time went on to soften the rather savage image into an \"Indian princess\" type, and in churches emphasizing conversion to Christianity, served European artists well enough, by the 18th century they were becoming rejected by settlers in North America, who wanted figures representing themselves rather than the Native Americans they were often in conflict with. \n\nMassachusetts Chief Justice Samuel Sewall used the name Columbina (not Columbia) for the New World in 1697. The name Columbia for America first appeared in 1738 in the weekly publication of the debates of the British Parliament in Edward Cave's \"The Gentleman's Magazine\". Publication of Parliamentary debates was technically illegal, so the debates were issued under the thin disguise of \"Reports of the Debates of the Senate of Lilliput\" and fictitious names were used for most individuals and placenames found in the record. Most of these were transparent anagrams or similar distortions of the real names and some few were taken directly from Jonathan Swift's \"Gulliver's Travels\" while a few others were classical or neoclassical in style. Such were Ierne for Ireland, Iberia for Spain, Noveborac for New York (from Eboracum, the Roman name for York) and Columbia for America—at the time used in the sense of \"European colonies in the New World\".\n\nBy the time of the Revolution, the name Columbia had lost the comic overtone of its Lilliputian origins and had become established as an alternative, or poetic name for America. While the name America is necessarily scanned with four syllables, according to 18th-century rules of English versification Columbia was normally scanned with three, which is often more metrically convenient. For instance, the name appears in a collection of complimentary poems written by Harvard graduates in 1761 on the occasion of the marriage and coronation of King George III.\n\nThe name Columbia rapidly came to be applied to a variety of items reflecting American identity. A ship built in Massachusetts in 1773 received the name \"Columbia Rediviva\" and it later became famous as an exploring ship and lent its name to new Columbias.\n\nNo serious consideration was given to using the name Columbia as an official name for the independent United States, but with independence the name became popular and was given to many counties, townships, and towns as well as other institutions.\n\nIn part, the more frequent usage of the name Columbia reflected a rising American neoclassicism, exemplified in the tendency to use Roman terms and symbols. The selection of the eagle as the national bird, the heraldric use of the eagle, the use of the term Senate to describe the upper house of Congress and the naming of Capitol Hill and the Capitol building were all conscious evocations of Roman precedents.\n\nThe adjective Columbian has been used to mean \"of or from the United States of America\", for instance in the 1893 World's Columbian Exposition held in Chicago, Illinois. It has occasionally been proposed as an alternative word for American.\n\nColumbian should not be confused with the adjective pre-Columbian, referring to a time period before the arrival of Christopher Columbus in 1492.\n\nAs a quasi-mythical figure, Columbia first appears in the poetry of African-American Phillis Wheatley starting in 1776 during the revolutionary war.\n<poem>\n</poem>\n\nEspecially in the 19th century, Columbia was visualized as a goddess-like female national personification of the United States and of liberty itself, comparable to the British Britannia, the Italian Italia Turrita and the French Marianne, often seen in political cartoons of the 19th and early 20th century. This personification was sometimes called Lady Columbia or Miss Columbia. Such iconography usually personified America in the form of an Indian queen or Native American princess.\nThe image of the personified Columbia was never fixed, but she was most often presented as a woman between youth and middle age, wearing classically-draped garments decorated with stars and stripes. A popular version gave her a red-and-white-striped dress and a blue blouse, shawl, or sash, spangled with white stars. Her headdress varied and sometimes it included feathers reminiscent of a Native American headdress while other times it was a laurel wreath, but most often it was a cap of liberty.\nEarly in World War I (1914–1918) the image of Columbia standing over a kneeling \"Doughboy\" was issued in lieu of the Purple Heart Medal. She gave \"to her son the accolade of the new chivalry of humanity\" for injuries sustained in \"the\" World War.\nIn World War I, the name Liberty Bond for savings bonds was heavily publicized, often with images from the Statue of Liberty. The personification of Columbia fell out of use and she was largely replaced by the Statue of Liberty as a feminine symbol of the United States. When Columbia Pictures adopted Columbia as its logo in 1924, she appeared (and still appears) bearing a torch—similar to the Statue of Liberty and unlike 19th-century depictions of Columbia.\n\nStatues of the personified Columbia may be found among others in the following places.\n\nSince 1800, the name Columbia has been used for a wide variety of items.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2165196", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165196", "title": "2006 Michigan gubernatorial election", "text": "2006 Michigan gubernatorial election\n\nThe Michigan gubernatorial election of 2006 was one of the 36 U.S. gubernatorial elections held November 7, 2006. Incumbent Democratic Governor of Michigan Jennifer Granholm was re-elected over Republican businessman Dick DeVos and three minor party candidates. Granholm was re-elected with 56% of the vote.\n\nGranholm had no opposition in the primary election, which was held August 8. She retained incumbent Lieutenant Governor John D. Cherry as her running mate.\n\nDeVos was originally facing two other Republicans; state Representative Jack Hoogendyk of Portage and state Senator Nancy Cassis of Novi, both dropped out by summer 2005. A political unknown, Louis Boven, tried to challenge him in the primary, but failed to meet Michigan election requirements to get on the ballot. Boven later ran an unsuccessful write-in campaign.\n\nDeVos selected former State Representative and Oakland County Clerk Ruth Johnson as his running mate on August 14.\n\nThe Libertarian Party of Michigan held their convention on May 16 at the Comfort Inn in Chelsea The party nominated Gregory Creswell, with Scotty Boman as his running mate.\n\nThe Green Party of Michigan had their convention at the Wolverine Dilworth Inn in Boyne City, Michigan. The Green Party's nominee was Douglas Campbell. His running mate was David Skrbina, a philosophy professor at the University of Michigan–Dearborn. Campbell, a registered professional engineer from Ferndale, joined the Green party upon learning of its existence in 2000, and was the Wayne-Oakland-Macomb county campaign coordinator for Green Party presidential candidate Ralph Nader, 2000.\n\nThe Constitution Party's candidate was Bhagwan Dashairya, a member of the US Taxpayers' Party. The Michigan US Taxpayers' Party is affiliated with the United States Constitution Party, but Michigan election law does not provide a mechanism for changing the name of a political party. Dashairya was the first Asian Indian to run for Governor of Michigan. Dashairya's running mate was Carl Oehling.\n\nAfter her first election as governor in 2002, Granholm was widely seen as a rising star in the Democratic Party. Her popularity dropped after she took office in 2003, largely due to a weak economy and high unemployment. In August 2006, her approval rating was 47 percent.\n\nDeVos, a multimillionaire, had developed substantial political contacts with the full participation of his wife, former Michigan Republican Party chair Betsy DeVos, despite which, fully 85% of the DeVos campaign's contributions were from DeVos' inheritance. As the 2006 election approached, the DeVos family was listed among the biggest Republican campaign contributors in Michigan. The DeVos campaign spent $42.5 million, at that time the most spent on a gubernatorial campaign in Michigan history. $35.5 million of that total came from DeVos' personal fortune, and was at that time the most spent personally by a Republican candidate running for governor. The Granholm campaign spent $15.7 million. The combined money spent by both campaigns made this election the most expensive gubernatorial election in Michigan history. As DeVos funded his campaign himself, he was not eligible for public funds.\n\nThe DeVos and Campbell campaigns each made the state's economy their major issue. DeVos criticized the Single Business Tax, high unemployment, and job outsourcing which occurred during Granholm's first term; Campbell assailed the $12 billion taken from Michigan's taxpayers and appropriated to the military siege of Iraq (which he calls \"Duh-bya's Folly\") and advocated for a local currency, independent of the U.S. dollar which he and running mate David Skrbina say is in imminent jeopardy of collapse. Granholm countered that her policies saved thousands of jobs. She also attacked DeVos's partisanship, wealth, and tenure at Alticor. One of Granholm's most prominent lines of attack was the accusation that Alticor, under DeVos's tenure, outsourced thousands of jobs to China while cutting 1,400 jobs in Michigan, a charge that the DeVos campaign and numerous media factcheckers denied. DeVos, Campbell and Granholm criticized the Michigan Civil Rights Initiative which was exclusively supported by Creswell. and passed by a wide margin.\n\nOn August 25, 2006, Detroit Mayor Kwame Kilpatrick pledged to actively campaign for Granholm and utilize the campaign team which got him re-elected as mayor.\nThe Michigan Democratic Party held their state convention in city of Detroit at Cobo Hall while the Michigan Republican Party held their convention in the City of Novi in Oakland County at the new Rock Financial Showplace.\n\nIn October 2006, the Creswell campaign spent over $10,000 on radio advertising, which while small, was the most spent on a such advertising by any Michigan gubernatorial campaign outside the Democratic or Republican parties. The largest investment was made in advertisements on Detroit AM Radio stations WJR and WXYT. These commercials specifically targeted Devos and Granholm by referring to them as candidates of \"The two old parties,\" and berating them for supporting state-supported preferences based on race and sex: A clear reference to MCRI. Campbell spent less than $1,000, as was the case with the Dashairya campaign.\n\nThe DeVos and Granholm campaigns agreed to three televised debates and a single joint appearance. This agreement did not include any provision for participation by third-party candidates. Granholm and DeVos appeared together October 12 at the Detroit Economic Club in which each candidate delivered their job plans.\n\nThe first debate occurred on October 2 at WKAR-TV in East Lansing. Both candidates spent the hour trading charges and countercharges. \"Detroit News\" pollster Ed Sarpolus indicated that there was no clear winner in the debate, but Bill Rustem, senior vice president of the nonpartisan policy firm Public Sector Consultants in Lansing, favored Granholm. The consensus of pundits Bill Ballenger, George Bullard, Kathy Barks Hoffman and Rick Albin and capital correspondent Tim Skubick, speaking on the October 6 WKAR-television program Off the Record, was that both DeVos and Granholm emerged losers, losing 2 and 4 percentage points' support after the event. No major gaffes or zingers came out in the debate. Some of the positions were made clear on embryonic stem cell research and abortion. No major gaffes came out in the debate, but one minor zinger was made by Granholm about DeVos' investment in Alterra, a chain of nursing homes which sexually abused and neglected its patients.\n\nThe second was October 10 at WOOD-TV in Grand Rapids. DeVos was more aggressive than before, declaring that Granholm had lied about him having a controlling stake in Alterra Health Care, an elder-care company that suppressed information about the abuse of residents by its employees. According to SEC filings, DeVos and his investment partners jointly owned 40% of Alterra stock totalling $173 million. The chairman of Alterra's board, while a close associate of DeVos, nevertheless maintains that DeVos had no part of running the company himself.\n\nDeVos also asserted that he had convinced President Bush to set a date to meet with the three major Michigan auto companies. Granholm responded that she didn't believe that was true. DeVos admitted after the debate that he misspoke; the President agreed to have a meeting at some point after the election, but did not confirm a date. On October 24, two weeks after this debate was held, a mid-November date was set for the meeting.\n\nThe third televised debate was October 16 at WXYZ-TV in Southfield. Unlike the previous debates, this one had an invited studio audience of 30 undecided voters, some of whom asked questions to the participating candidates. Like the two previous debates, only two of the five candidates were admitted. Granholm and DeVos sparred on various issues including college tuition, Canadian trash, business taxes, President Bush and negative ads, while Creswell supporters picketed outside.\n\nDuring the opening statements of the third debate, Gov. Granholm attacked DeVos for using pictures of dead children as a campaign tool against her. However, it was later revealed that DeVos was not the person using the pictures, but supporters of him, who were cheering for him outside of the debate studio.\n\nOn October 18 CMN-TV in Troy broadcast an additional debate. This debate was not covered by the agreement between the DeVos and Granholm campaigns. It was the only televised debate to which all gubernatorial candidates were invited. It also was only the only televised debate in which the majority of gubernatorial candidates participated. This debate included Libertarian Gregory Creswell, Green Douglas Campbell, and U.S. Taxpayer Candidate Bhagwan Dashairya (Dashairya identified himself as a Constitution Party (listed on ballot as U.S. Taxpayers Party) candidate). \n\nDeVos, buoyed by the political ads he ran, led in the polls for most of the late spring and early summer. DeVos' lead eroded when Granholm started running ads; meanwhile, Granholm built up a lead as voters found out more about the candidates culminating in the three debates, and as political fortunes soured for Republicans across the country due to a massive backlash against then president George W. Bush and fatigue over the continuing War in Iraq.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2165201", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165201", "title": "Document Definition Markup Language", "text": "Document Definition Markup Language\n\nDocument Definition Markup Language (DDML) is an XML schema language proposed in 1999 by various contributors from the xml-dev electronic mailing list. It was published only as a W3C Note, not a Recommendation, and never found favor with developers.\n\nDDML began as XSchema, a reformulation of XML DTDs as full XML documents, so that elements and attributes, rather than declarations, could be used to describe a schema. As development continued, the name was changed to DDML, reflecting a shift away from the goal of replicating all DTD functionality, in order to concentrate on providing a robust framework for describing basic element/attribute hierarchy. DDML offered no datatypes or functionality beyond what DTDs already provided, so there was not much advantage to using DDML instead of DTDs. DDML did, however, inform the development of the next generation of XML-based schema languages, including the more successful XML Schema and RELAX NG.\n\n"}
{"id": "2165207", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165207", "title": "Limestone College", "text": "Limestone College\n\nLimestone College is a private, non-denominational Christian liberal arts college in Gaffney, South Carolina.\n\nIt was established in 1845 by Thomas Curtis and his son, William Curtis, distinguished scholars born and educated in England. Limestone was the first women's college in South Carolina, and one of the first in the nation. Ten buildings on the campus, as well as the Limestone Springs and limestone quarry itself, are on the National Register of Historic Places. In the 1960s, Limestone became fully coeducational, and today student enrollment is about 55:45 male:female. It is the third-oldest college in South Carolina.\n\nIn addition to its Day Campus, the College provides online degree programs and Evening Classroom sites in Aiken, Charleston, Columbia, Gaffney, Greenville, and Florence.\n\nIn July of 2020, Limestone will Be renamed and will formally be known as Limestone University.\n\nLimestone enrolls approximately 2,101 students, including those on its Day Campus in Gaffney and those enrolled through the Online & Evening Program.\n\nOver 80% of the faculty at Limestone hold the terminal degree in their field, and the student/faculty ratio is 14:1. Limestone offers students 57 majors in four different divisions of study: Arts and Letters, Natural Sciences, Social and Behavioral Sciences, and Professional Studies. Additionally, in addition to free, reasonable accommodations through the Accessibility Office, Limestone College offers a comprehensive support program, LEAP (Learning Enrichment & Achievement Program), for Day Campus students with learning and attention challenges.\n\nConstruction is expected to begin in January of 2020 for a new 58,000 square foot student center and library that will serve as the academic and social hub of the campus. \n\nLimestone offers an online MBA degree, as well as an MBA concentration in Healthcare Administration. A Master's program in Social Work is expected to begin in 2020.\n\nIn December of 2019, Limestone announced an articulation agreement with the Edward Via College of Osteopathic Medicine (VCOM), which is a doctoral-level osteopathic medical college with a nearby campus in Spartanburg. Limestone’s partnership with VCOM provides its Pre-Medical students an opportunity to receive a Guaranteed Admissions Interview, as well as take part in an Early Admission Program. \n\nLimestone plays sports in Conference Carolinas, and will be moving to the South Atlantic Conference (SAC) in the fall of 2020. Limestone offers competitive opportunities at the NCAA Division II level for men in football, soccer, basketball, baseball, wrestling, lacrosse, golf, cross country, tennis, track and field, and volleyball and for women in golf, volleyball, basketball, softball, tennis, soccer, cross country, lacrosse, track and field, acrobatics/tumbling, wrestling, and field hockey. Limestone has an indoor Olympic-size pool for intramural and recreational use, along with a Physical Education facility containing classrooms, offices, locker rooms, Athletic Training Education facilities for the school's fully accredited Athletic Training program, a fitness center, and a wrestling practice facility.\n\nClubs and organizations at Limestone College include academics, religious, leadership, musical, theatre, and special interest affiliations. Students also contribute to a yearbook and a literary magazine of poems, essays, short stories, and art.\n\nThe college has a Reserve Officers' Training Corps program for students interested in serving in the military or reserves.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2165229", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165229", "title": "François Laurent d'Arlandes", "text": "François Laurent d'Arlandes\n\nFrançois Laurent le Vieux d'Arlandes (; 1742 – 1 May 1809) was a French marquis, soldier and a pioneer of hot air ballooning. He and Jean-François Pilâtre de Rozier made the first manned free balloon flight on 21 November 1783, in a Montgolfier balloon.\n\nD'Arlandes was born in Anneyron in the Dauphiné. He met Joseph Montgolfier at the Jesuit college of Tournon. He became an infantry officer in the French royal guard.\n\nThe first public demonstration of a balloon by the Montgolfier brothers took place in June 1783, and was followed by an untethered flight of a sheep, a cockerel and a duck from the front courtyard of the Palace of Versailles on 19 September. The French King Louis XVI decided that the first manned flight would contain two condemned criminals, but de Rozier enlisted the help of the Duchess de Polignac to support his view that the honour of becoming first balloonists should belong to someone of higher status, and d'Arlandes agreed to accompany him. The King was persuaded to permit d'Arlandes and de Rozier to become the first pilots.\n\nAfter several tethered tests to gain some experience of controlling the balloon, de Rozier and d'Arlandes made their first untethered flight in a Montgolfier hot air balloon on 21 November 1783, taking off at 1:54 p.m. from the garden of the Château de la Muette in the Bois de Boulogne, in the presence of the King. Also watching was U.S. envoy, Benjamin Franklin. Their 25-minute flight travelled slowly about 5½ miles (some 9 km) to the southeast, attaining an altitude of 3,000 feet, before returning to the ground at the Butte-aux-Cailles, then on the outskirts of Paris. After the flight, the pilots drank champagne to celebrate the flight, a tradition carried on by balloonists to this day.\n\nD'Arlandes proposed a flight to cross the English Channel in 1784, but the plan came to nothing.\n\nHe was dismissed from the army for cowardice after the French Revolution, and died in his castle of Saleton near Anneyron. Some sources suggest that he committed suicide.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2165236", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165236", "title": "Man vs. Machine", "text": "Man vs. Machine\n\nMan vs. Machine is the fourth studio album by American rapper Xzibit. It was released on October 1, 2002. Special guests include Dr. Dre, Snoop Dogg, Eminem, M.O.P, and Nate Dogg. Producers on the album include Rick Rock, Bink, Rockwilder, Erick Sermon, DJ Premier, and Dr. Dre (who was also the executive producer). The album debuted at number three on the \"Billboard\" 200 with over 156,000 copies sold in its first week. Since then album was certified gold by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA).\n\nThe track \"My Name\" which features Eminem and Nate Dogg, is a diss track aimed at Canibus, Jermaine Dupri, and Moby.\n\nTwo of the songs from \"Man Vs. Machine\" were featured in the 2005 film \"Domino\". The specific songs were \"Choke Me, Spank Me (Pull My Hair)\" as well as \"The Gambler\", which played during the film's opening credits.\n\nEminem's manager, Paul Rosenberg, makes a guest appearance on the album by performing a \"Paul\" skit (which is a skit that is commonly used for Eminem's studio albums).\n\n\"Man vs. Machine\" debuted at number three on the US \"Billboard\" 200 and number one on the US Top R&B/Hip-Hop Albums chart, selling 156,000 copies in its first week of release. The album spent a total of 19 weeks on the \"Billboard\" 200 chart. On November 12, 2002, the album was certified gold by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA) for sales of over 500,000 copies. It was certified shortly after a month of being released. As of November 2004, the album has sold 593,000 copies in the United States.\n\nIn a retrospective review, Mitch Findlay from \"HotNewHipHop\" said: \"Once again executive produced by Dr. Dre, who provided production on two tracks and mixing engineer credits on seven, \"Man Vs. Machine\" emerged at the peak of Xzibit’s musical popularity. His work on \"Restless\" had ushered him from an acclaimed underground presence to a household name, an equal affiliate to Snoop Dogg, Dre, Eminem, and his Golden State Project groupmates Ras Kass and Saafir. With \"Man Vs. Machine\", Xzibit continued to build on the foundation of its predecessor, albeit with a slight gaze toward a more futuristic aesthetic; such qualities were largely realized by Rick Rock, who contributed production on tracks like “Symphony In X Major” and “Break Yourself.\". He singled out songs like \"Multiply\", the Dre-produced songs \"Losin your mind\" and \"Choke Me, Spank Me (Pull My Hair)\", \"BK To LA\", \"My Name\" and \"Harder\" as highlists. He also said: \"If there’s anything keeping \"Man Vs. Machine\" from unmitigated greatness, it might very well be the inconsistent hooks. Slight blemishes aside, X’s fourth studio album is an insanely listenable, crisply mixed, and nostalgic reminder of a classic musical era.\"\n\n\"My Name\"\n\"Multiply\"\n\n\"Symphony In X Major\"\n\"Choke Me Spank Me (Pull My Hair)\"\n"}
{"id": "2165237", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165237", "title": "Muntilan", "text": "Muntilan\n\nThe Muntilan area is a district (\"kecamatan\") in the Magelang Regency, Central Java. Muntilan is about 15 km south of Magelang, 10 km from Mungkid, 25 km north of Yogyakarta, and 90 km from the main town of Semarang located on the northern coast of Java. The town of Muntilan is on the old railway route between Kebon Polo station in Magelang and the main Tugu station in Yogyakarta. Tourists on their way to the well-known Buddhist temple Borobudur usually pass through Muntilan. \n\nMuntilan township is one of the main market centers on the western slopes of Mount Merapi, a major volcano in central Java within the administrative ambit of the regional government in Magelang. The locality is densely populated: in 2016, there was a population of around 79,500 people living in an area of approximately 28.6 km2, indicating a population density of almost 2,800 per km2. \n\nThe adjacent countryside has many villages with pesantren and strong allegiances to more stricter forms of Islam. In contrast, villages closer to the Kraton palaces of Surakarta and Yogyakarta tend to more influenced by syncretic views of Javanese beliefs. \n\nJesuits have long had a presence in the town, having a school, seminary, and a necropolis containing the remains of many of their earlier members. Frans van Lith, a Jesuit priest from The Netherlands, arrived in Muntilan in 1897 and played an important role in promoting Catholicism in the area. Indonesia's first Catholic cardinal, Justinus Darmojuwono, is buried in Kerkhoof Muntilan, a cemetery for prominent Catholics in the town.\n\nDuring the Second World War, Muntilan was the site of a Japanese prisoner of war camp which contained many Dutch families.\n\nThe streetscape of Muntilan along Jl Pemuda (Pemuda street) provides one of the more classic street views in Central Java. The line of shop-fronts, and the enclave of Chinese-based businesses in the central area, provide clues as to the nature of commercial development in the town over the last century.\n\nThe area is at ever-present risk of needing to respond to natural disasters caused by eruptions of Mt Merapi. In 1994, for example, a pyroclastic flow from Mt Merapi killed over 20 people in the Muntilan area.\n"}
{"id": "2165238", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165238", "title": "Irina Dvorovenko", "text": "Irina Dvorovenko\n\nIrina Vladimirovna Dvorovenko (; ; born 28 August 1973) is a Ukrainian-American retired ballet dancer and actress. She was a principal dancer with the American Ballet Theatre.\n\nDvorovenko was born in Kiev, Ukraine during the Soviet period. Her parents are dancers. She started with gymnastics before entering the Kiev Ballet School at the age of ten.\n\nIn 1990, Dvorovenko joined the National Opera and Ballet Theatre of Kiev as a soloist, and was promoted to principal dancer in 1992. When she was touring with the company, she and her colleagues decided to bring as much food back home as possible.\n\nIn 1996, Dvorovenko joined the American Ballet Theatre, and was promoted to soloist the following year. She became a principal dancer in 2000. She had danced many lead roles at the company, including Odette/Odile in \"Swan Lake\", Aurora in \"The Sleeping Beauty\" and Kitri in \"Don Quixote\".\n\nIn May 2013, Dvorovenko retired from ABT following a performance as Tatiana in \"Onegin\", with Cory Stearns as the title role. She planned to perform as a guest artist.\n\nDvorovenko now coaches younger dancers at ABT along with her husband, Maxim Beloserkovsky. Dancers they coached include Skylar Brandt, for her debut as the title role in \"Giselle\". She also runs a ballet intensive with Beloserkovsky.\n\nIn May 2013, she made her acting debut as Vera Baronova in the Encores! production of \"On Your Toes\" at New York City Center. Her performance received positive reviews.\n\nIn 2015, Dvorovenko starred in Starz TV series \"Flesh and Bone\", as Kiira, an aging prima ballerina. The show was choreographed by Dvorovenko's former ABT colleague Ethan Stiefel.\n\nIn 2017, Dvorovenko appeared as an recurring character in the fifth season of \"The Americans\". She played a Soviet émigré, Evgheniya Morozova.\n\nIn March 2018 Dvorovenko returned to Encores! as Elizaveta Grushinskaya in \"Grand Hotel\".\n\nShe has also appeared in the television series \"Forever\", \"The Blacklist\" and \"Power\".\n\nDvorovenko is married to Maxim Beloserkovsky, a fellow ABT principal dancer. They have a daughter, Emma Galina, born in 2005. Dvorovenko is a naturalised American citizen.\n\n\n\n\nSource:\n"}
{"id": "2165241", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165241", "title": "Simple Things (Amy Grant album)", "text": "Simple Things (Amy Grant album)\n\nSimple Things is the twelfth studio album by Christian music and pop music singer-songwriter Amy Grant, released in 2003.\n\nGrant's first secular album (while containing Christian themes) since 1997's \"Behind the Eyes\", \"Simple Things\" did not see the mainstream success similar to Grant's albums from the 1990s. While the album topped \"Billboard\"s Christian album chart and the title track became a Top Ten Christian single, \"Simple Things\" peaked just outside the Top 20 on the \"Billboard\" 200, at No. 23. The title track peaked at the same position on the adult contemporary chart.\n\n\n\nAlbum - \"Billboard\" (North America)\nSingles - \"Billboard\" (North America)\n"}
{"id": "2165249", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165249", "title": "United House of Prayer for All People", "text": "United House of Prayer for All People\n\nThe United House of Prayer for All People of the Church on the Rock of the Apostolic Faith is an evangelical Christian group founded by Cabo Verdean Marcelino Manuel da Graça. In 1919, Grace built the first United House of Prayer For All People in West Wareham, Massachusetts, and incorporated the United House of Prayer for All People in Washington, D.C. in 1927.\n\nAccording to church literature and their official website, the United House of Prayer for All People has 145 places of worship in 29 states. The church has an estimated membership of 27,500-50,000 members. The national headquarters for the church is located in Washington, D.C. at 601 M Street.\n\nThe United House of Prayer for All People runs soul food restaurants that serve the communities and holds annual \"Christian Saints\" marching parades in honor of its past bishops. The United House of Prayer for All People is noted for its public street baptisms, sometimes performed by fire hose, and for its shout bands.\n\nThe United House of Prayer for All People is Apostolic in doctrine. Its creed establishes its basic principles as believing in Jesus Christ and his death on the cross so that humanity could have life, water baptism for the repentance of sin, that to be saved one must be born again of the Holy Spirit, and that one leader is the Divine ruler of the Kingdom of God. The United House of Prayer for All People's sacred text is the Holy Bible.\n\nThe first portion of the name is derived from Isaiah 56:7 where God says: \"Mine house shall be called a house of prayer for all people.\" (This is also found in Matthew 21:13, Mark 11:17, and Luke 19:46). The latter part is taken from \"Acts 4:10–12 and Ephesians 2:20, which discusses Christian salvation as being built on a figurative cornerstone, or rock,\" which \"is believed to be the teachings of Jesus Christ as preached by the Apostle Peter.\"\n\nThe United House of Prayer for All People believes that the word \"church\" means a group of Christians who are believers and worshippers in Christ and that the modern definition of \"church\" as a building, denomination, or institution is unbiblical according to the writings of the Holy Scriptures as recorded in Acts 9:31.\" Therefore, the United House of Prayer does not see itself as a denomination.\n\nBishop Charles Manuel \"Sweet Daddy\" Grace was born Marcelino Manuel da Graca, January 25, 1884, in Brava, Cape Verde Islands, a Portuguese possession off the west coast of Africa. He came to America on a ship called Freedom in 1903 and settled in New Bedford, Massachusetts.\nAfter leaving his job as a railway cook, Grace began using the title bishop. In 1919, \"Daddy\" Grace, as parishioners knew him, built the first House of Prayer in West Wareham, Massachusetts at the cost of thirty-nine dollars. He later established branches in Charlotte, North Carolina and Newark, New Jersey.\n\nThroughout the 1920s and 1930s, Grace traveled America preaching and establishing the United House of Prayer for all People. The constitution and bylaws of The United House of Prayer, promulgated in 1929, stated that the purpose of the organization in pertinent part was \"to erect and maintain places of worship and assembly where all people may gather prayer and to worship the Almighty God, irrespective of denomination or creed.\" He traveled extensively throughout the segregated South in the 1920s and 1930s preaching to integrated congregations years before the civil rights struggles of the 1950s and 1960s and the religious ecumenical movements which followed.\n\nOne of the principles that Grace taught which provoked controversy was the concept of one-man leadership. Grace used the Bible as his reference and taught that God only used one man at a time (e.g. Noah, Moses, and Jesus. One of the many criticisms made against Grace is the following statement which Grace is to have allegedly made in the early 1940s: \"Salvation is by Grace only. Grace has given God a vacation, and since He is on vacation, don't worry about Him. If you sin against God, Grace can save you, but if you sin against Grace, God cannot save you.\" Nonetheless, the \"interpretation of this point – that Grace claimed he himself was God – has been almost completely definitive in both academic and popular literature, and only a handful of writers have ever questioned it, usually as an aside.\" The most extensive research done by Danielle Brune Sigler on this statement shows that Mr. Fauset selectively quoted certain parts of the original message which changed the context.\" The original statement, spoken by a member and not Grace, shows that the members and Grace, himself, thought that he was not \"God himself\", but merely an \"intermediary\" and \"the path to salvation.\"\n\nOne reason for the early success of the denomination is that offerings went directly to Grace for investment into products such as soap, stationery, tea, coffee, cookies, toothpaste, facial creams, talcum powder, hair dressing, and the \"Grace Magazine\".\n\nBishop Grace died on January 12, 1960, at his home in Los Angeles, California. Bishop W. McCollough succeeded him and served for 31 years.\n\nWhen Grace died he left the church with an unclear succession. After winning a court fight and two elections, Walter McCollough succeeded Grace as the second bishop. Bishop McCollough launched a nationwide building program. Through this program, low-income and affordable housing was being erected. New church structures were built by their own construction teams and other edifices received major renovations, financed solely by the members. Day care centers and senior citizens homes were also erected. One of the unique features of Daddy McCollough's building programs was that all of the church structures were completely paid for at the time of dedication.\n\nUnder his leadership, the House of Prayer acquired a fleet of luxury coach buses; property was acquired for the House of Prayer for use as future development sites; concert and marching bands were organized to march in annual parades and annual competitions; and softball teams were organized, nationwide, for interstate competition.\nIn addition, the McCollough Scholarship Fund was established which allowed youth of the church to pursue higher education. Bishop McCollough died on March 21, 1991.\n\nOnce again a crisis occurred over the succession, with Charles McCollough, a son of the late Bishop McCollough, and Samuel Christian Madison, the Senior Minister of \"God's White House\", struggling for control of the church. On May 24, 1991, the members voted Madison to the office of Bishop. Shortly after, Madison pledged to fulfill everything that was on Bishop McCollough's agenda. Under his administration, over 123 Houses of Prayer received major renovation or were constructed. Added to this number were numerous apartments, senior citizens' dwellings, parsonages, houses, and commercial properties.\n\nBishop Madison was an advocate for scholastic achievement and was the chief executive officer and major contributor to the McCollough Scholarship College Fund. Madison expanded the academic programs of the organization through inaugurating the Annual First Lady Scholastic Achievement Awards Program. Bishop Madison died on April 5, 2008.\n\nBishop C. M. (sometimes known as \"Sweet Daddy\") Bailey, a native of Newport News, Virginia, and the former pastor/apostle of the United House of Prayer For All People in Augusta, Georgia (the \"Motherhouse\" or parent church for the state of Georgia), succeeded Madison on May 23, 2008. He was elected during Memorial Week in Washington, D. C. after having won 91% of the electoral votes by the General Assembly. As a result of the appointment, he became Sole Trustee of the United House of Prayer, and C.E.O.\n\nThe United House of Prayer as defined in their constitution and by-laws is composed of the bishop, elders, ministers, deacons, and all persons who assemble themselves in the various places of assembly maintained by the organization. \"On a broader organization level, each House of Prayer belonged to a regional district\" and each district is chaired by a minister who is the state chairman. The organization also has what they call the General Assembly which consist of the bishop, ministers, elders, and two elected representatives from each congregation. The General Assembly is the vehicle used to make amendments to the constitution and by-laws, to fill vacancies in the office of bishop, and to remove the bishop for cause. Besides the bishop, the General Assembly, ministers, and members, there exist an ecclesiastical court called the General Council. The General Council consist of the bishop, state chairmen and others who are appointed by the bishop and their primary responsibility is to protect the work of the organization and the bishop and to ensure that all houses and members are compliant with laws outlined in the Supreme Laws For the Government of the United House of Prayer.\n\nThe constitution and by-laws of the organization stipulate that the bishop must be in full knowledge of the doctrine of the United House of Prayer, ready to give answers in good faith, able to judge the various members among the church and congregations, and must be continuously working for the good of the organization in accordance with the rules of the New Testament. The bishop's role includes the power to select, ordain, and supervise ministers. He is also designated on behalf of the members as trustee of all church property.\n\nA mausoleum in memory of W. McCollough and S. C. Madison was built in Lincoln Cemetery in Suitland, Maryland. The monument also honors C. M. Grace and the United House of Prayer for All People of the Church on The Rock of The Apostolic Faith. The memorial features several larger-than-lifesize statues. W. McCollough is buried at Fort Lincoln Cemetery, Brentwood, Maryland.\n\nNotes\n\n"}
{"id": "2165253", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165253", "title": "Jay Krush", "text": "Jay Krush\n\nJay Krush is a native of the Philadelphia area whose busy career includes performing, composing, arranging, teaching and conducting.\n\nA founding member of the Grammy Award-winning Chestnut Brass Company, he has performed on tuba and historical brasses with that ensemble for twenty five years, touring to forty nine of the U.S. States and to Europe, South America, Asia, Canada and the Caribbean. He can be heard on recordings with the Chesntut Brass Company on the Sony Classical, Naxos, Newport Classic, Polygram, Albany, Musical Heritage Society and Crystal labels.\n\nMr. Krush is also a tubist with the Pennsylvania Ballet Orchestra and on the faculty of the Boyer College of Music at Temple University where he teaches tuba and euphonium and directs the Contemporary Music Ensemble.\n\nAs a composer he has written over seventy works, including two symphonies, for a wide variety of media and has received grants and awards from the National Endowment for the Arts, the Pennsylvania Council on the Arts, the American Composers Forum and others.\n\nKrush holds a bachelor's degree in composition from the Eastman School of Music and a Master's in performance from Northwestern University, where he studied with the Chicago Symphony's Arnold Jacobs.\n"}
{"id": "2165262", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165262", "title": "Richard Danielpour", "text": "Richard Danielpour\n\nRichard Danielpour (born January 28, 1956) is an American composer.\n\nDanielpour was born in New York City of Persian Jewish descent and grew up in New York City and West Palm Beach, Florida. He studied at Oberlin College and the New England Conservatory of Music, and later at the Juilliard School of Music, where he received a DMA in composition in 1986. His primary composition professors at Juilliard were Vincent Persichetti and Peter Mennin. Danielpour previously taught at the Manhattan School of Music (since 1993) and the Curtis Institute of Music (since 1997), and is currently on the faculty at the University of California, Los Angeles.\n\nEarly on as a student—first at the New England Conservatory, then at The Juilliard School—Danielpour established his reputation as a pianist (studying under Hollander, Jochum, and Chodus) and composer (under Persichetti and Mennin). His first Piano Concerto, completed in 1981 (but later withdrawn), was commissioned and received its first performances while Danielpour was still a Juilliard student. He initially employed serial methods in his works in the early 1980s, but works from the end of that decade, such as First Light (1988) and The Awakened Heart (1990), adopt a broader and more expressive style. He emerged in the 1990s as one of a handful of composers, alongside Adams, Rouse, Schwantner, Corigliano, and Kernis, who embraced triadic harmony alongside experimental innovations of the previous century — the familiar sound of the traditional orchestra as well as elements of pop, rock, and jazz. 1996's Concerto for Orchestra (\"Zoroastrian Riddles\"), for example, contains musical allusions to Broadway scores, movies, and television. In the late 1990s, Danielpour became one of only three composers (the others being Stravinsky and Copland) to be signed to an exclusive recording contract with Sony Classical. He has fulfilled commissions for numerous orchestras including the San Francisco Symphony and the New York Philharmonic, received several awards (including MacDowell, Rockefeller, and Guggenheim fellowships), completed numerous residencies, and served on the faculties of the Curtis Institute and the Manhattan School of Music. In 2005 he completed his first opera, Margaret Garner, in collaboration with Toni Morrison.\n\nIn common with many other American composers of the post-war generation, Danielpour began his career in a serialist milieu, but rejected it in the late 1980s in favor of a more ecumenical and \"accessible\" idiom. He cites the Beatles—along with John Adams, Christopher Rouse, and Joseph Schwantner—as influences on his more recent musical style. Danielpour's notable works include \"First Light\" (1988) for chamber orchestra, three symphonies (1985, 1986, and 1990), four piano concerti (1981, 1993, 2002 and 2009), the ballet \"Anima mundi\" (1995), and the opera \"Margaret Garner\" (2005).\n\nHis students include Marcus Paus and Wang Jie.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nDanielpour's current and forthcoming projects includes works for Yo-Yo Ma, the Iris Chamber Orchestra, Baltimore Symphony, Guarneri Quartet, Atlanta Symphony, Nashville Symphony, Music from Copland House, Brooklyn Philharmonic, Seattle Symphony, Singapore Symphony, Orchestre National de Lyon and the WDR Symphony Orchestra, Cologne.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2165264", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165264", "title": "Chestnut Brass Company", "text": "Chestnut Brass Company\n\nThe Grammy winning Chestnut Brass Company is a Philadelphian brass quintet founded in 1977 with intent to advance the skill and artistry within musical performance, as well as the knowledge and understanding of musical history with particular regard to brass instruments. By presenting performances featuring brass music of all eras, the ensemble strives to reflect the tradition and spirit of brass instruments.\nThe quintet has earned international acclaim for performances on modern and historical brass instruments. Since beginning as a street band in Philadelphia in 1977, they have performed in North and South America, Europe, the Caribbean, and Asia.\n\nThe chamber ensemble is active in the performance and commissioning of contemporary music, and has introduced numerous new works to audiences around the country. Composers who have written works for the Chestnut Brass Company, or have been commissioned by the Chestnut Brass Company, include Jan Krzywicki, Pulitzer Prize–winning composer Richard Wernick, Lois V. Vierk, Peter Schickele, George Hitt, Eric Stokes, Theodore Antoniou, Lawrence Siegel, and Paul Basler. The CBC has received awards for commissioning and performance from the NEA, the Pennsylvania Council on the Arts, the Pew Charitable Trust, the Presser Foundation, Chamber Music America and Meet the Composer.\n\nInterviews and recitals of the Chestnut Brass Company have been featured on National Public Radio's All Things Considered, Fresh Air, Radiotimes and Performance Today programs; Voice of America, Radio Free Europe, Bavarian State Radio and numerous radio and television stations across the United States. The Chestnut Brass Company has been featured in performance at the Juilliard School, the Chautauqua Institute, the Ambassador Series of Los Angeles, the Boston Museum of Art, Merkin Concert Hall, Alice Tully Hall and the Yale Collection of Instruments.\nAs curators of the sounds of ancient and antique brasses, the Chestnut Brass Company have been at the forefront of the period-instrument revival with performances on cornetti, sackbuts, keyed bugles and saxhorns. The quintet continues to collect antique brass instruments and to research the literature and performance practice of these instruments.\n\nTheir educational program Hot Air: the Story of Brass Instruments was one of three programs selected by the Kennedy Center for the Arts for a live web broadcast. The program was renewed for inclusion on the Kennedy Center website. The CBC can be heard on the Sony, Newport Classic, Crystal and Musical Heritage/Musicmasters labels. Selections from CBC recordings have been included on several documentaries ranging from A House Divided for PBS, to Pinehurst, the History of Golf.\n\n"}
{"id": "2165266", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165266", "title": "Ceprano Man", "text": "Ceprano Man\n\nCeprano Man, Argil, and Ceprano Calvarium, refers to a Middle Pleistocene archaic human fossil, a single skull cap (calvaria), accidentally unearthed in a highway construction project in 1994 near Ceprano in the province of Frosinone, Italy. Although damaged by a bulldozer it was recognized, documented and described by archeologist Italo Biddittu, who happened to be present when the fossil came to light. and Mallegni et al. (2003) proposed the introduction of a new human species, dubbed Homo cepranensis, based on the fossil. although other paleontologists have classified it as belonging to \"Homo heidelbergensis\". Mounier et al. (2011) have identified the fossil as \"an appropriate ancestral stock\" of \"H. heidelbergensis\", \"preceding the appearance of regional autapomorphic features\".\n\nThe holotype (see image) of \"Homo cepranenis\" has a unique combination of morphological features:\n1: incomplete sulcus supraorbitalis, 2: frontal tuber weakly developed medially shifted, 3: supraorbital region medially concave, 4: intermediate position of the external auditory meatus in regard to the processus zygomaticus temporalis); 5 and 6 (blue) = more derived traits (i.e. 5: straight torus occipitalis transversus, 6: medio-lateral concavity of the articular tubercle); 7 to 10 (green) = more primitive traits (i.e. 7: petro-tympanic crest orientated downward, 8: opisthocranion coincident with inion, 9: processus retromastoideus, 10: torus angularis parietalis.\n\nThe fossil was first estimated to be between 690,000 to 900,000 years old determined on the basis of regional correlations and a series of absolute dates. \nTaking the circumstances of the recovery of the fossil into account A. Ascenzi (2001) stated: \"...given the absence in the sediments containing the cranium of any leucitic remnants of the more recent volcanic activity known in the region—that are referred to the range between 100 and 700 ka and the presence above the cranium itself of a clear stratigraphic unconformity that marks the lowest limit of the sandy leucitic pyroclasts, an age between 800 and 900 ka is at present our best chronological estimate.[sic]\" After clarification of its geostratigraphic, biostratigraphic and archaeological relation to the well known and nearby Acheulean site of Fontana Ranuccio, dated to , Muttoni et al. (2009) suggested that Ceprano is most likely about 450,000 years old - the mid of the Middle Pleistocene. \n\nThe cranial features on the bone seem to be intermediate between those found on \"Homo erectus\" and those of later species, such as \"Homo heidelbergensis\", that dominated Europe long before \"Homo neanderthalensis\". A 2011 study suggested that it was ancestral to \"Homo neanderthalensis\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2165267", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165267", "title": "Datsun Truck", "text": "Datsun Truck\n\nThe Datsun Truck is a compact pickup truck made by Nissan in Japan from 1955 through 1997. It was originally sold under the Datsun brand, but this was switched to Nissan in 1983. It was replaced in 1997 by the Frontier and Navara. In Japan, it was sold only in \"Nissan Bluebird Store\" locations.\n\nThe Datsun truck line began with the Type 13 Truck of April 1934, and was later used as the basis of the Datsun DC-3 roadster. A series of small trucks based on their passenger car counterparts, the 14T, 15T, and 17T, continued to be built until early 1944. This was followed by the near identical post-war Datsun 1121 (1946) and 2124 (1947–1949). In 1949 the 3135 took over, followed by next year's Datsun 4146. In 1951 the 5147 appeared, which was succeeded two years later by the 6147. Aside from a bigger and more modern engine (with ), the Datsun 6147 was nearly identical to the prewar type 15 truck. This was built until the 1955 introduction of the all new 120-series truck.\n\nThe Datsun 120 was a load carrying bodystyle version of the Datsun 1000 sedan (110 series), and was introduced in January 1955 as the latest Datsun truck with up-to-date styling. Delivery van, panel van (120 only), and double cab versions were available. Until 1959 it used the 25 hp, 860 cc Nissan D10 engine with a four-speed floor shift (column shift for the 123 and later versions) manual transmission. It was joined with a larger commercially focused vehicle called the Nissan Junior.\n\nDuring its six years in production six main models were built: 120 (Jan. to Dec. 1955), 122 (Dec. 1955 to May 1956) and 123 (Jun. 1956 to Sep. 1957). For reasons unknown, Nissan skipped the 121 designation. After the introduction of the re-engined 220-series truck, a modernized low-cost option, the Datsun 124 was introduced in October 1957. It continued to use the same bodywork and engine as the 123, although with less chrome trim. This was then followed by the re-engined Datsun 125 in 1959 and finally by the Datsun 126 in 1960. While the 124 was still powered by the D10, the 125 and 126 received an improved version of this engine called the B-1, rated at .\n\nIn November 1957 the type 220 was introduced. Largely unchanged in appearance from the 120-series, which continued to be built as a cheaper version, it was produced from 1957 to 1961. During this time four models were produced: 220 (1957–1958), 221 (1958–1959), 222 (1960), and 223 (1961). The chassis was based on the 210 series sedans. Two engines were available: the 37 hp Nissan C engine, and the 48 hp Nissan E engine. The E engine was originally only used in models sold on the export market. The 223 was powered by a new engine, the Nissan E-1, rated at 60 hp. The 220 was the first Datsun truck to be equipped with a 12 volt electrical system. Double cab and delivery van versions were available. Side badges were \"Datsun 1000\" or \"Datsun 1200\". The 223 also had a round \"60 HP\" badge. There was also a round badge on the dashboard that said \"Datsun 1000\" or \"Datsun 1200\", depending on the engine. The 223 had a revised chassis and suspension system. The front I-beam suspension used on the 220, 221 and 222 was replaced with an independent front suspension with torsion bars. A long bed version was introduced with the 222. As a low cost option, a lightly changed model of the D10 sidevalve-engined predecessor was introduced in October 1957 (the Datsun 124), followed by the Datsun 125 in 1959 and finally the Datsun 126 in 1960. The 125 and 126 were powered by the B-1, an improved version of the D10 with .\n\nIn 1958 the Datsun 220 was exhibited at the Los Angeles Auto Show, with American exports beginning soon after. It was the 220 series that established Datsun in the American market.\nIn August 1961 the new 320 series was released. It was produced until 1965 in three series (320–322). The 320 series was largely inherited from the earlier 120/220, although with clear improvements to body and frame. It used the Nissan E-1 engine. This engine produced 60 PS. Nissan updated the larger commercially focused Nissan Junior in 1962.\n\nAll Datsun trucks kept the A-arm torsion bar front suspension with leaf-sprung rear ends and had a 1/2 ton load capacity. Rear end gearing was a low 4.875:1 along with a four-speed transmission; as a result, the 320 was not freeway friendly above 60 mph. Fender emblems showed \"Datsun 1200\" and \"60 HP\" (\"55ps\" for models sold in Japan) with a \"Datsun\" emblem on the front nose of the hood.\n\nAvailable bodystyles include a single cab \"truck\" (320), a longer wheelbase single cab \"truck\" (G320), a double cab \"pickup\" with flush sides (U320), and a three-door \"light-van\" (V320). Though described (and taxed) as a van in the Japanese market, the V320 is essentially a two-door station wagon. The 320 came in two cab and bed versions: Regular, and as the NL320 \"Sports Pick-Up\" (1963–65) variation which is a rarer (around 1,000 produced) version with the cab and bed of a one-piece design. Its back half is greatly different than that of the standard, separate bed 320 pick-up.\nBed and luggage space were in addition to the expansion, with the support of the market characteristics and the robust chassis engine was easy to handle, it was a best seller in the truck market segment.\n\nThe chassis was also a sales hit 310 in the reinforcement of the type Datsun Bluebird 310, a variation of the same series, in which the X-members plus a reinforcement of the Fairlady roadster of the S310-type CSP311. It was also used for the new Silvia coupé.\n\nIn 1964 the 320 underwent minor changes. After having adding the failed Light Stout, Toyota took over Hino's Briska and then continued with the Hilux. Mazda also competed in this segment, with the Mazda B-Series. In 1960, Nissan assumed operations of the Minsei Diesel Industries, Ltd., renaming the company as Nissan Diesel Motor Co., Ltd (now UD Trucks).\nThe Datsun 520 was built from 1965 until May 1968 (the 420 designation was skipped). It used the new 1.3 litre, 67 hp Nissan J13. In 1965 and 1966 the 520 had two single headlights. For 1967, the 520 was slightly redesigned and had twin headlights. This design was carried on until the end of 520 production. Single cab (520, and L520 for left-hand drive version), LWB Single cab (G520), Double cab (U520) and delivery van (V520) versions were available. \"G\" was used to identify the long wheelbase versions. The fender emblems said \"Datsun 1300\". A grille emblem was added in 1966 and simply said \"D\". In late 1967 a slightly altered model appeared, now with a slightly changed chrome grille with a distinct frame.\n\nIn 1967, Nissan added the Nissan Sunny pickup truck, which was exclusive to \"Nissan Saito Store\" locations, which closely shared the dimensions, engine displacement and load carrying duties of the 520 series truck.\n\nThe 521 was the facelifted version of 520, with a so-called \"flat-deck\" style. This meant a flattened bonnet and front fenders as well as a new grille design. It used the Nissan J engines (the previously mentioned J13 or the larger J15, rated at 77 hp) and later had a Nissan L16 engine, always with a straight rear axle. The 520 strongly resembles a Datsun 410/411 from the front, since it shares most sheet metal with that car. The fender emblems said \"Datsun 1300\", \"Datsun 1500\" or \"Datsun 1600\" (depending on engine fitment). Van/delivery van (V521) and double cab (U521) versions were available. It was manufactured from June, 1968–1972, preceded by the 520 and followed by the 620. The 521 was the first compact half-ton pickup sold in the American market, in 1968 .\n\nIn 1968, larger load carrying duties were now shared with the Datsun Cabstar, a cabover truck sharing a chassis with the third generation Nissan Junior.\n\nIn February 1972, the Datsun 620 truck was released and was in production until 1979. It was a regular cab truck (a longer \"King Cab\" [Nissan's trademark for their extended cab trucks] version was released in 1977) and two wheelbases were offered, for a total of six different models. There was also a delivery van version, offered only in Japan. Naturally there were bare chassis models, and many importers installed locally made flat decks. There was also the U620, which is a crew cab \"Utility\" version. It uses a shorter, fully integrated bed to allow comfortably seating four people. The U620 was essentially a 620 pickup from the doors forward, with the bed and rear end being the only difference. Nissan continued the strong rhythms and styling of its previous vehicles, with a shoulder \"wing line\" or \"Bullet Side\" accent running alongside the vehicle. In most of the world the 620 was equipped with the J15, producing and a claimed top speed of . A 2.2 liter diesel engine with was later made available in many markets.\n\nThe 620 was also the first Datsun pickup truck to be available with a longer \"King Cab\" passenger compartment (called \"Custom\" in Japan). This used the bed from the normal 620 truck, but has a cabin stretched by , all placed on the longer wheelbase.\n\nThe 620 was redesigned slightly for 1978, with changes to grille and front bumper. The suspension was also revised, increasing track at both ends by . This also marked a name change in South Africa, where it had been sold simply as the Datsun one-ton pick-up, to \"Datsun 680\". A four-door crew cab variant was also offered in some markets.\n\nIn North America, the 620 continued to use the Nissan L engine. The 1972 and 1973 models were powered by the L16 engine (96 hp), the 1974 model used the L18 engine (100 hp), and the 1975 through 1979 models used the L20B engine (110 hp SAE Gross).) SAE Net rating was . This was a \"50-state car\", with an EGR system for pollution control which sufficed to meet California's stringent emissions standards without a catalytic converter. The 620 was available with two wheelbases and also as the extended King Cab model from 1977. In Canada the 620 was marketed as the \"Sportruck\", while American buyers knew it as \"The Little Hustler\". In North America it was generally treated as a regular car, with 40% of buyers stating that they never used the truck for \"work\". The standard transmissions were the F4W63 four-speed (1972 and 1973) and F4W71 four-speed (1974 to 1979). In 1977, the optional FS5W71B five-speed manual transmission became available. The 3N71 three-speed automatic became available as an option in mid-1972. This was the first series to offer an automatic transmission as an option (all model series before the 620 only had manual transmissions). Final drive gearing was 4.375:1.\n\nSide badges read \"DATSUN 1600\" or simply \"DATSUN\". The grille badge was two colored stripes (one red and one blue) behind the word \"DATSUN\". The 620 was known As a result, the 620 was competing with the larger American pickup trucks, A number of innovations were introduced with the 620: first long-bed (1975), first extended-cab (1977), front disc brakes (1978), and electronic ignition (1978).\n\n\nIn October 1979, Nissan introduced the Datsun 720 as successor to the 620. A four-door crew cab version of the 720 was available in most markets (although not in North America). In addition, some overseas models continued with the early style beds in the later model years as well as the lower cost round headlamps, and included various combinations of Datsun and Nissan badging while retaining the Datsun name throughout all model years. In Japan, round headlights were standard but higher-end models like the GL received square headlamps. In Japan, the standard engine was originally the J16 but in 1982 this was changed to the more modern Z16 derivative.\n\nIn 1983, the front end underwent a transformation with a larger grille, bumper, and corner lights. There was also a revised dashboard with round instead of square gauges. At the same time, the regular cab was lengthened slightly and the air extractor vents behind the cab doors changed from the high \"flag\" look to long, narrow ones that matched the height of the window opening. The cabs of the King Cab versions were unchanged.\n\nIn 1980, US models were powered by Datsun's 2.0L carbureted L20B I4 engine, but soon after switched to the Nissan NAPS-Z engine line for 1981 (Z22S). \"NAPS\" was the terminology Nissan used to describe their pollution control technology as a result of emission regulation laws having been enacted in Japan, starting in 1975. In the Middle East, it was powered by Datsun's 1.8 L carbureted L18 engine. The 1981–1982 models used the Z22 carbureted 2.2 L engine and an optional SD22 diesel of the same displacement. In mid-1983, Nissan introduced the Z24 2.4 liter twin spark four-cylinder engine, producing , 2.3 L SD23 OHV diesel four, and the SD25 diesel.\nThe diesel engines were sourced from the Nissan Diesel division, which Nissan Motors acquired in 1960. This dominated 720 sales in many markets and was also available in combination with 4WD. In the American market, the diesel engine was only available in the 2WD 720 (from 1982 to 1985). The Z24 was upgraded to Z24i single-point fuel-injection for some 1986 ST models. The rest of the world had versions with the smaller 1.5 L J15, 1.6 L J16 or 1.8 L L18 carbureted engines. The 720 Series was never available with any of the Z22E or Z20E multi-port fuel injected engines.\n\nIn the US, the 720 came in regular cab and \"King Cab\" models, with regular and long bed options with standard (GL), deluxe (DX), and \"Sport Truck\" (ST) trim packages, all of which had two doors. In addition, from 1984 to 1986 a covered utility body style like that of the first generation 4Runner was available as an aftermarket conversion by a company called Matrix3 called the Bushmaster. The Datsun 720 was available in both 2WD and 4WD configurations, the latter having a divorced transfer case. The long wheelbase 2WD trucks (King Cab, short bed, and regular cab, long bed) had a two-piece driveshaft with a center support bearing. The dome light could fold rearward, to provide illumination to the bed.\n\nThe 720 was assembled in the newly built Smyrna, Tennessee plant from the 1983.5 model year until 1986. However, Nissan of Mexico continued to build the pickup until 1991, 1992 being its last official model year. They were exported to the whole of Latin America.\n\nThe 1980 to 1983 models were called the \"Datsun 720\". They had single wall beds with outside rolled lips and rope ties, two faux hood vents (some had real vents), and tail lights on the lower rear valance (similar to the 620). These vehicles were badged with a small Datsun logo on the driver's side of the grill, a raised plastic Datsun badge on the front fenders, a large Datsun embossed on the rear tailgate, as well as Datsun stickers on the bottom left of the tailgate, and model designation on the right. The owner's manual and service manuals retained the Datsun name.\n\nFor a limited period, 1984 models built in the US had the single wall beds with rope ties, yet used tail lights on the rear bed corners with amber turn signals over the red stop/tail lights while the backup lights remained under the tailgate. These \"in-between\" models were a combination of Datsun and Nissan badging, with Nissan replacing Datsun in similar fashion to the earlier models, but incorporated a \"Datsun by Nissan\" plastic trim piece on the front fenders, and \"Datsun by Nissan\" stickers on the tailgate. The late model trucks produced from 1983.5 to 1986 used double wall, smooth sided beds, with revised tail lights on the corners which resembled those on Chevrolet/GMC S-series trucks. The badging was exclusively Nissan (going along with Nissan's rebranding and conversion of 1,100 Datsun dealerships to Nissan dealerships), with the name officially being \"Nissan 720\", which is found in the owner's manual, service manual, and literature from the period.\n\nThis was a continuation of the Lil' Hustler line from the 620 generation. It was a bare-bones truck that was only available as a regular cab with a bed, and was discontinued after 1982.\n\nUnlike the GL, the MPG model of the Nissan 720 was a stripped-down version of the truck to improve fuel economy. Unlike the others it had only a driver side mirror, single walled bed, vinyl bench seat, and other bare bone accommodations. What really set this model apart was its drive train. It featured the 2.0L Z20 motor that was fed by a carburetor. Its compression ratio was at a high 9.4 to 1, and produced and of torque. It was able to do this because it featured a knock sensor that would retard the timing by about 10 degrees to prevent the engine from knocking. This resulted in excellent fuel economy but at the cost of emissions. For that reason this truck was not sold in the California market.\n\nThe standard (GL) single cab Datsun 720 came with a front bench seat made of single color non-patterned cloth and leather in blue, black, or tan to match the interior trim color of the vehicle. It had optional factory air-conditioning and contained a simple gauge cluster with speedometer, fuel, and water temperature gauges (with blank faces in place of the tachometer and clock), as well as sliding glass rear window. A radio and cruise control were options installed by the dealership. These vehicles came in long bed, short bed, or cab-and-chassis styles with the later having a \"heavy duty\" option of dual rear wheels.\n\nThe 2WD deluxe model came with front bench seats of varying patterns to match the door trim and interior in blue, black or tan. 4WD models had two bucket-style seats, and incorporated a center console with voltmeter and oil pressure gauges. Both drivetrain options had single and King-Cab variants. These models came with factory air conditioning, an AM-FM radio of two different types, a tachometer and/or a clock in the gauge cluster, an option of either rear sliding windows or single-pane window with defroster, as well as optional cruise control. Beds both long and short were available. In addition, there were roll-bar and bumper-brush guard options for the 4WD variant that were installed by the dealership with mounting points for off-road and fog lights. Switches for these were placed in the center console below (1980 to pre-1983.5) and above (Post 1983.5 to 1986) the voltmeter and oil pressure gauges.\n\nThe 2WD Luxury model came only in king cab variants and featured several standard and unique features. For the exterior, it came with a two tone paint job, chrome bumpers, mirrors and grille. It also had Nissan brand hexagonal hubcaps, whitewall tires, and sun roof. For the interior, this top of the line model came with full carpeting, bucket seats, tachometer, quartz clock, intermittent wipers, center console, and woodgrain accents on the dash and door. Like the other trucks, it was powered by the Z24 and offered both a 5-speed manual or 3-speed automatic.\n\nThe 2WD and 4WD sport truck package came with factory air-conditioning as well as the clock and tachometer in the cluster as standard with exclusive gradient-patterned bucket seats for both drivetrains (with the 4WD versions offering the center console and gauges of the DX model, and the 2WD having center console storage in place of the transfer case lever), as well as King-Cab variants. It had similar radio, back-glass, cruise control, and roll-bar/brush guard options as the DX trim. The sport truck package also was the only package with standard power windows and locks (all other packages only received manual locks and windows), as well as a tilting sunroof. ST stickers were placed on the end of the rear quarter panels. Ironically, the ST package had no performance modifications, however in the 1986 model year it had an optional Z24i single-port fuel injected engine.\n\nFrom 1984 to 1986 a covered utility body style was available in the US called the Bushmaster. The Bushmaster was an aftermarket/dealer conversion done by the Matrix3 company. It was created from a King-Cab 4WD 720, welding the cab and bed of the truck together along with a custom bed topper which increased the height of the whole vehicle. The interior was completely carpeted, and incorporated a rear folding bench seat similar to the first generation Toyota 4Runner. This option is exceedingly rare, and is considered a predecessor to the Pathfinder.\n\nThe United Kingdom only received the longer wheelbase, as a standard bed 1-tonner with the L18 engine or as the four-wheel drive 2.2 litre King Cab with . Australia only received the SD25 and the Z22S.\n\nIn most European markets the 720 was sold as the Datsun PickUp (regular cab) or Datsun King Cab. As elsewhere in the world, the \"Nissan\" name gradually replaced Datsun in 1983 and 1984. The SD22 diesel in European trim produces while the 1.8-liter L18-engined versions offered .\n\nFitted with a 1.6-liter engine, this was the first vehicle to emerge from Nissan/TEOKAR's new assembly plant in Volos, Greece, in February 1980.\n\nThe D21 generation was the successor to the Datsun 720, sold as the Nissan Datsun Truck in Japan. The name Navara was used in some markets such as Australia.\n\nUnlike previous generations, this model was available worldwide in two body styles. The \"A\" body was designed in Japan, and was available in single or dual cab variants, while the \"S\" body King Cab was designed in the United States, at Nissan's styling studios in San Diego, California. Each version had unique front styling, with the American version having a different hood, and wider flared front guards. In a few countries, such as Australia, both versions were sold. This was also assembled in Greece for the local market, where it was marketed as the Nissan Pickup and King Cab.\n\nIn North America, the company used the name \"Datsun\" from model years 1980 to 1983 then renamed itself \"Nissan Datsun\" in 1984 and then \"Nissan\" beginning with the 1985 model year line of trucks and cars alike. Nonetheless, the Nissan pickups continued to be marketed in the Japanese home market as the \"Nissan Datsun\". The D21 series were called Nissan Hardbody in the United States. \"Hardbody\" refers to the truck's double-wall bed and overall styling. The Hardbody was produced for the US market from November 1985 until 1997, and were direct competition to the Toyota compact pickup. The move from the 720 to the D21 Nissan series body style changed in January 1986 for the 1986½ model year so the new D21 and later Hardbody can easily be distinguished from the earlier 720 body style by its two large headlights rather than four smaller lights and a less boxy, more aggressive appearance. The Nissan Pathfinder was derived from the Hardbody Truck and started in the same model year with chassis code WD21.\n\nIn the US, the Hardbody cab styles were 'Standard' and 'King' (also known as 'Extended'). Bed lengths were 'standard' and 'long' seven foot. International markets also received the 'Crew Cab' (four-door) version with a short four and a half foot bed.\n\nFour-cylinder and V6 engines were available. A 2.4-litre four-cylinder Z24i engine was used until 1989 and produced 106 hp in US trim. For many markets a carburetted version of the Z24 was available, usually without much in the way of emissions controls. This model produces at 4800 rpm. For North America, this was replaced for the 1990 model year by the KA24E of similar displacement: a SOHC engine of respectable performance. Used in the 1990-1997 models, this engine featured a new three-valve-per-cylinder head and produces (The 1990 variant receiving exactly the same engine configuration as the 240SX of the same year). The six-cylinder 3.0-litre VG30i (early years) or VG30E (later years) engine increased power and torque only modestly. It was unavailable in the US starting with the 1996 model year because Nissan was unable to meet the requirements of the new OBD-II emissions law in time.\n\nFive-speed, including overdrive, manual transmissions were the most common, but an automatic transmission was an available option. Both rear-wheel-drive (4x2) and four-wheel-drive (4x4) versions were made in quantity. A limited slip differential was standard on the top 'SE' trim variants.\n\nMajor options included air conditioning, larger wheels/tires , sliding rear window, stereo, and rear bumper. There were several trims available including base, XE, and top of the line SE. The XE could be ordered with a 'value package' starting in 1994 which included air conditioning, power mirrors, alloy wheels, and chrome on body trim such as the mirrors and bumpers. The SE was better equipped and could be ordered with the \"sport power package\" with sunroof, power windows, locks, and mirrors, air conditioning and special 15x8 inch \"Robot\" alloy wheels.\n\nIn 1992, Nissan had a crossover year in which the 1993 model year (mid-1992 to mid-1993 calendar year) had the dashboard of the 1986½–1992 model years with a slightly refreshed body appearance as well as some small interior changes and a revised instrument panel. In a first for the auto industry, this model used the new R134A air conditioning refrigerant.\n\nIn 1993, the last major refresh would last through 1997. Changes were a new ergonomic dashboard and much improved interior for 1994.\n\n1995 was the first model year to comply with the new US Department of Transportation \"high mount brake light\" regulation requiring all trucks to have a brake light in the center of the rear at the top of the cab, though a temporary light was added to the 1994 models.\n\nIn late 1995, a driver's side airbag was added as well as compliance with the new US safety rules. Rear wheel ABS came with both 2WD and 4WD models beginning in 1990.\n\nVersions sold in other countries came with a host of more economical engines, ranging from 1.6-litre gasoline fours up to a 2.7-litre diesel four-cylinder, including SD25 and TD25 diesel engines.\n\nThese Hardbody small pickup trucks sold very well worldwide, and are still often seen both on-road and off-road. The V6 engine had a timing belt that requires replacement every 60K miles. In the US, beginning in 1997, the new \"D22\" was official named, \"Frontier\" and used a new DOHC 2.4 inline-four borrowed from the Nissan Altima. A newly modified \"VG33\" V6 was available in 1998 and ending production in the US in 2004. The new VG33E V6 had new, larger, 10 mm exhaust manifold studs in an attempt to decrease the risk of premature exhaust manifold stud failure, but still had limited success.\n\nThe D21 design was still available new in some Latin American countries, made in Mexico until the 2008 model year. In its current home country a range of four basic variations of the D21 are sold together as the Nissan Camiones (literally \"Nissan Trucks\").\n\nNissan Mexicana ended production of the Camiones on March 15, 2008 after 15 years of production in the Cuernavaca plant.\n\nThe Nissan D21 is still being sold in Venezuela as of 2014.\n"}
{"id": "2165269", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165269", "title": "Paranthropus robustus", "text": "Paranthropus robustus\n\nParanthropus robustus (or Australopithecus robustus) is an early hominin, originally discovered in Southern Africa in 1938. Particularly regarding cranial features, the development of \"P. robustus\" seemed to be in the direction of a \"heavy-chewing complex\". On account of the definitive traits associated with this \"robust\" line of australopithecine, anthropologist Robert Broom established the genus \"Paranthropus\" and placed this species in it.\n\n\"Paranthropus robustus\" is generally dated to have lived between 2.0 and 1.2 million years ago. It had large jaws and jaw muscles with the accompanying sagittal crest, and post-canine teeth that were adapted to serve in the dry environment they lived in. The post-canine teeth also commonly display pitting enamel hypoplasia, thought to be caused by a genetic condition, amelogenesis imperfecta, and was likely common due to instability in crucial gene(s) after evolving such large teeth.\n\nAfter Raymond Dart’s discovery of \"Australopithecus africanus\", Robert Broom was in favour of Dart's claim that \"Australopithecus africanus\" was an ancestor of \"Homo sapiens\". However, there was a great deal of skepticism and criticism from the academic community. Many claimed that Dart had been premature in naming the species as the type specimen, called Taung Child, was a represented by a single skull of a juvenile. It was thought that such important claims should be based on a full skeleton of an adult.\n\nBroom was a Scottish doctor then working in South Africa, who began making his own excavations in Southern Africa to find more specimens of \"A. africanus\", to help strengthen Dart's position. It was his intent to find complete adult skeletons that would justify the species designation of \"A. africanus\", and further justify its place as an ancestor of modern humans. In 1938, at 70 years old, Broom was excavating at Kromdraai, South Africa and discovered pieces of a skull and teeth which resembled Dart's \"Australopithecus africanus\" find, but the skull had some \"robust\" characteristics.\nThe fossils included parts of a skull and teeth, all dated to 2 million years old. Sites with fossils of \"Paranthropus robustus\" are found only in South Africa, and include the sites of Kromdraai, Swartkrans, Drimolen, Gondolin and Coopers. In the cave at Swartkrans the remains of 130 individuals were discovered. The study made on the dentition of the hominins revealed that the average \"P. robustus\" rarely lived past 17 years of age.\n\n\"Paranthropus robustus\" was the first discovery of a \"robust\" species of hominin; it was found well before \"P. boisei\" and \"P. aethiopicus\". These three species have alternately been in their own (\"Paranthropus\") or placed within the genus \"Australopithecus\". This is partly because in many small details, the species \"robustus\" resembles \"A. africanus\" more than it does either of the other \"robust\" species, \"aethiopicus\" or \"boisei\". Broom's discovery was the second australopithecine after \"Australopithecus africanus\".\n\nTypical of robust australopithecines, \"P. robustus\" had a head shaped a bit like a gorilla's with a more massive built jaw and teeth in comparison to hominins within the \"Homo\" lineage. The sagittal crest that runs from the top of the skull acts as an anchor for large chewing muscles. The DNH 7 skull of \"Paranthropus robustus\", \"Eurydice\", was discovered in 1994 at the Drimolen Cave in Southern Africa by Andre Keyser, and is dated to 2.3 million years old, possibly belonging to a female.\nThe teeth of these primates were larger and thicker than any gracile australopithecine found, due to the morphology differences Broom originally designated his find as \"Australopithecus robustus\". On the skull, a bony ridge is located above from the front to back indicating where the jaw muscles joined. \"P. robustus\" males may have stood only 1.2m (4 feet) tall and weighed 54 kg (120 lb) while females stood just under 1 meter (3 feet 2 inches) tall and weighed only 40 kg (90 lb), indicating a large sexual dimorphism. The teeth found on \"P. robustus\" are almost as large as those of \"P. boisei\".\n\nBroom analyzed his findings carefully and noted the differences in the molar teeth size which resembled a gorilla's a bit more than a human's. Other \"P. robustus\" remains have been found in Southern Africa. The average brain size of \"P. robustus\" measured to only 410 and 530 cc, about as large as a chimpanzee's. Some have argued that \"P robustus\" had a diet of hard gritty foods such as nuts and tubers since they lived in open woodland and savanna. More recent research suggests that this taxon was more of a dietary generalist, and others have argued that they principally consumed hard and gritty resources as fallback foods only during time of nutritional stress.\n\nA 2011 study using ratios of strontium isotopes in teeth suggested that Australopithecus africanus and \"P. robustus\" groups in southern Africa were patrilocal: females tended to settle farther from their region of birth than males did.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2165270", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165270", "title": "Division of Lindsay", "text": "Division of Lindsay\n\nThe Division of Lindsay is an Australian electoral division in the state of New South Wales.\n\nEver since Lindsay was first contested at the 1984 federal election the seat had always elected a member of the government of the day − a pattern known as a \"bellwether\" seat. However, Lindsay's bellwether run ended at the 2016 federal election when Labor's Emma Husar defeated one-term Liberal Fiona Scott. Ahead of the 2016 election, ABC psephologist Antony Green listed Lindsay in his election guide as one of eleven which he classed a bellwether electorate.\n\nThe division is named after Norman Lindsay, the prominent Australian artist, writer and sculptor. The division was proclaimed at the redistribution of 11 October 1984 and was first contested at the 1984 federal election.\n\nThe Division of Lindsay has bellwether status. The 2016 federal election is the only instance where the member to win the seat has not been from the party to form government. This has been widely attributed to Lindsay's buildup as an economically sensitive seat. The mortgage belt status of the electorate means fiscal matters such as interest rates, job security, petrol prices and quality of transportation are always critical issues at federal elections. The geographic buildup of the seat consists of Liberal voting areas in the west, Labor voting areas in the east and swing areas in the centre.\n\nPrior to the 1996 election, it was considered a safe Labor seat, as it was located in Labor's longstanding heartland of west Sydney. This ended in 1996, when then member Ross Free was thrown from office by Liberal challenger Jackie Kelly on a swing of nearly 12 percent. Free was one of 13 New South Wales Labor MPs to lose their seats in Labor's heavy defeat that year. However a by-election was called when it was revealed that questions about Kelly's citizenship raised eligibility problems. Kelly won the subsequent by-election with an additional 6.69% swing towards her.\n\nKelly announced her retirement in 2007 which, together with the 2006 redistribution, made Lindsay vulnerable to the Labor candidate, Penrith Mayor David Bradbury. In his third bid for the seat, Bradbury won with a swing of 9.7% after distribution of preferences, defeating the unsuccessful Liberal candidate Karen Chijoff. Three days before the 2007 federal election Liberal Party supporters, including Jackie Kelly's husband, were caught in Lindsay distributing fake pamphlets in residents' letterboxes which linked the Labor Party to Islamic terrorism. For more details see Lindsay pamphlet scandal. Bradbury narrowly retained the seat in 2010 against Liberal Fiona Scott, but she defeated him at the 2013 election receiving a favourable swing towards her in both elections of 5.16% in 2010 and 4.11% in 2013.\n\nHowever, the bellwether streak ended at the 2016 federal election as Labor's Emma Husar defeated Scott to claim the seat, while overall the Liberal/National coalition narrowly retained government.\n\nThe division is located in the outer western suburbs of Sydney, and is centred on Penrith. It also includes the suburbs of Berkshire Park, Cambridge Gardens, Cambridge Park, Castlereagh, Claremont Meadows, Colyton, Cranebrook, Dunheved, Emu Heights, Emu Plains, Glenmore Park, Jamisontown, Jordan Springs, Kingswood, Kingswood Park, Lemongrove, Leonay, Llandilo, Londonderry, Mount Pleasant, North St Marys, Oxley Park, Regentville, South Penrith, St Marys, Werrington, Werrington County, and Werrington Downs; as well as parts of Agnes Banks, Badgerys Creek, Luddenham, Mulgoa, and Orchard Hills.\n\n"}
{"id": "2165274", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165274", "title": "Marvelous 3", "text": "Marvelous 3\n\nMarvelous 3 is an American rock band from Atlanta, Georgia.\n\nMarvelous 3 was formed by lead singer/guitarist Butch Walker, bass guitarist Jayce Fincher, and drummer Doug Mitchell (a.k.a. Mitch \"Slug\" McLee.) All three band members had played together previously in glam outfit SouthGang, Floyds Funk Revival and The Floyds, before reemerging as Marvelous 3 in 1997 when they released their first album, \"Math and Other Problems\".\n\nThe band's most successful album – \"Hey! Album\" – was released in fall 1998 with the lead single \"Freak of the Week\" reaching No. 5 on \"Billboard\"'s Modern Rock Tracks chart and No. 23 on the Mainstream Rock Tracks chart. The band toured with bands such as Collective Soul, SR-71, Dynamite Hack and Train and appeared on the WB television show \"Charmed\".\n\nThe band acrimoniously separated from label Elektra Records in spring 2001, as Walker documented on the band's official website in April 2001:\n\nFollowing a final tour, in which the band headlined the Atlanta Music Midtown festival in May 2001, they ended with a final farewell show at Atlanta's Centennial Olympic Park in August 2001.\n\nButch Walker went on to become a successful solo artist, songwriter and record producer, creating hit records for Avril Lavigne, Bowling for Soup, Pink, Fall out Boy, Lit and SR-71.\n\nMarvelous 3 reunited with an advertised appearance at The Autumn Leaves benefit show on November 4, 2018 and performed a 6-song set at the end of Butch Walker's solo headlining set, after having only played together at a handful of Butch's Atlanta solo shows since 2001.\n\n\n\n\nMarvelous 3 have had multiple single-night reunions in Atlanta since the band's 2001 split. Most often, Fincher and McLee have joined Butch Walker during encores of his solo shows, resurrecting material from the band's three releases and prior tours.\n\nWalker and Fincher lent background vocals to \"Over Tokyo\", a track from Collective Soul's 2000 album \"Blender\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2165275", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165275", "title": "Paranthropus boisei", "text": "Paranthropus boisei\n\nParanthropus boisei (or Australopithecus boisei) was an early hominin, described as the largest of the genus \"Paranthropus\" (robust australopithecines). It lived in Eastern Africa during the Pleistocene epoch from about 2.4 until about 1.4 million years ago.\n\nFirst discovered by anthropologist Mary Leakey on July 17, 1959, at Olduvai Gorge, Tanzania, the well-preserved cranium (nicknamed \"Nutcracker Man\") was dated to 1.75 million years ago and had characteristics distinctive of the robust australopithecines. Mary and her husband Louis Leakey classified the find as \"Zinjanthropus boisei\" (which is no longer used): \"\"Zinj\"\" for the medieval East African region of Zanj, \"\"anthropus\"\" (from Greek: ἄνθρωπος, \"anthropos\") for \"human being\", and \"\"boisei\"\" for Charles Watson Boise, the anthropologist team's benefactor. \n\nThe 1.75 Ma age estimate comes from potassium-argon dating of anortoclase crystals found in a tuff (volcanic ash) bed overlying the stratigraphic horizon where the skull was found. In fact, it was the deposition of the pyroclastic ash flow from a nearby volcanic eruption that buried the former owner of the skull at his living site and likely killed him. \n\n\"Paranthropus boisei\" (as the species was eventually categorized, using Robert Broom's 1938 definition of its genus) proved to be a treasure, especially when the anthropologists' son Richard Leakey suggested it was the first hominin species to use stone tools. Bernard Wood of the University of Liverpool, England, posits that tools discovered in Ethiopia and dated to 2.5 million years ago could have been made by \"Paranthropus boisei.\" A well-preserved jaw, known as the Peninj Mandible, was found by Richard's colleague Kamoya Kimeu in 1964 in Peninj, Tanzania. Another skull, specimen KNM ER 406, was unearthed in 1969 by Richard at Koobi Fora near Lake Turkana, in Kenya.\n\nThe brain volume is quite small, about 500 to 550 cm, not much larger than that of \"Australopithecus afarensis\" and \"Australopithecus africanus\" or modern-day chimpanzees. In \"P. boisei\" the foramen magnum is much shorter than in \"P. robustus\". In addition, the cranial variation of \"P. boisei\" is remarkably high. The adult males were larger on average than females (an example of sexual dimorphism), as was the case in virtually all australopithecine species. Males weighed some and stood about tall, while females weighed about and were tall.\n\nIt had a skull highly specialized for heavy chewing and several traits seen in modern-day gorillas. The molar teeth were very large, with an area over twice that of modern humans. The species is sometimes referred to as \"Nutcracker Man\" because it had the biggest, flattest cheek teeth and the thickest enamel of any known hominin. \"P. boisei\" had large chewing muscles attached to a pronounced sagittal crest. To accommodate their enormous cheek teeth (four times the size of modern human teeth), \"P. boisei\" had a wide face, although the front teeth were much smaller than in similar species.\n\nSome argue that the craniodental morphology of this taxon (e.g. large postcanine dentition, thick enamel, robust mandibles, sagittal cresting, flaring zygomatic region) is indicative of a diet of hard or tough foods such as ground tubers, nuts and seeds. However, research on the molar microwear of \"P. boisei\" has found a pattern very different from that observed in \"P. robustus\" in South Africa, which is thought to have fed on hard foods as a fallback resource. This work suggests that hard foods were an infrequent part of \"P. boisei\"s diet. Carbon isotope ratios suggest \"P. boisei\" had a diet dominated by vegetation, unlike \"P. robustus\" in South Africa.\n\nIn 1993, A. Amzaye found fossils of \"P. boisei\" at Konso, Ethiopia. The partial skull is designated as KGA10-525 and is dated to 1.4 million years ago. It is the biggest skull specimen ever found of \"P. boisei\". The oldest specimen of \"P. boisei\" was found in Omo, Ethiopia, and dates to 2.3 million years ago, classified as (L. 74a-21), while the youngest specimen from Olduvai Gorge dates to 1.2 million years ago and is classified as OH 3 and OH 38.\n\n\nAlmost all primates, including hominids, are or were dietary generalists, meaning that they ate a wide variety of foods and did not depend on a single, specific food source.\n\nThe most widely accepted theory about what foods \"P. boisei\" ate suggests that it fed on hard objects as its primary source of nutrition. Strong jaw muscles are believed to be an evolutionary adaptation of \"P. boisei\" for a diet of nuts, seeds and hard fruit. Analysis of the wear on the molars of \"P. boisei\" showed fine striations indicating constant chewing of small, hard food items, like nuts and seeds.\n\nThe foods that \"P. boisei\" would have ingested can be determined by means of carbon isotope measurements (not to be confused with radiocarbon dating). Along with fruits and nuts, carbon isotope data on \"P. boisei\" fossils suggest that their diet was largely based on C4 resources, probably grasses or sedges. One study has concluded that the diet of \"P. boisei\" actually consisted mostly of grasses and sedges such as tigernut and that it rarely ate fruits and nuts. According to another, the addition of tubers to its diet helped \"P. boisei\" to meet its daily caloric intake requirement. In any case, it would appear that \"P. boisei\" consumed larger quantities of plant matter than any other hominin studied to date.\n\nThe diet of fruits and nuts that \"P. boisei\" would have eaten is reflected by its classification as a cosmopolitan species, meaning that its wide geographic range would result in a diverse diet of different foods. The data suggest that this C4 resource centered diet was present over a wide range of period and region, with \"Paranthropus\" in eastern Africa and southern Africa having different diets.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2165292", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165292", "title": "Rabi'ah ibn al-Harith", "text": "Rabi'ah ibn al-Harith\n\nRabi'ah ibn al-Harith () (c.566-c.640) was a first cousin and companion of the Islamic prophet Muhammad.\n\nHe was a son of Al-Harith ibn Abd al-Muttalib of the Hashim clan of the Quraysh in Mecca.\n\nHe married his cousin Umm al-Hakam bint al-Zubayr and they had nine children.\n\nIt is said that Rabi'ah did not fight at the Battle of Badr in 624 because he was in Syria at the time.\n\nIn 627, at the time of the Battle of the Ditch, he converted to Islam and emigrated to Medina.\n\nRabi'ah's son Adam was a small child living with a foster-mother from the Bakr tribe. The Bakr were at war with the Hudhayl. Adam crept out in front of the tents and was caught in the cross-fire of the battle. A rock thrown by a Hudhayl man hit and crushed his head, which killed him.\n\nRabi'ah intended to demand blood-money or a counter-killing from the Hudhayl for the death of his son. Before this could happen, Muhammad conquered Mecca. On that day Muhammad cancelled all bloodwit debts and he specifically named Rabi'ah's case as the first to be cancelled. However, Ibn Ishaq asserts that the cancellation was declared two years later, at the Farewell Pilgrimage of 632.\n\nAll blood shed in the pagan period is to be left unavenged. The first claim on blood I abolish is that of Ibn Rabia ibn Al-Harith ibn Abdalmuttalib. It is the first blood shed in the pagan period which I deal with.\n\nHence Muhammad prevented Rabi'ah from claiming revenge from the killer.\n\nRabī'ah and his brother Abū Sufyān were among the ten people who did not flee in the Battle of Hunayn.\n\nHe is involved in the Hadith of the ten promised paradise.\n\nRabi'ah died after 636 but before 644.\n\n"}
{"id": "2165308", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165308", "title": "Nissan J engine", "text": "Nissan J engine\n\nThe Nissan J series are straight-4 and straight-6 gasoline internal combustion engines produced by Nissan in the 1960s through the 1980s. It is similar to the BMC B-Series engine but not direct copy.\n\nAn OHV engine of , the J13 was used in the 1965-1967 Datsun 411 sedan and wagon (originally only in the sporting \"SS\" series). Bore and stroke are . It was also produced for the Datsun 520 and 521 trucks from 1967 to 1969 when it was replaced by the Nissan L engine. Mexican-assembled Bluebird 510s also received the J13 engine. The J13 was rated at .\n\nThe J13 was bored out to produce the J15, which was introduced in the Datsun 521 truck in 1969 and saw use in various Nissan pickup trucks like the 620 and 720 in various overseas markets through the 1970s and 1980s. It was also used in certain sedans like the 710. It was also used in the PA321 Datsun Cabstar. Bore and stroke are for a displacement of . The J15 produces . Max torque at 3400rpm with 12.0 kg.\nthe fuel consumption is around 12-13km/liter in countryside, 6-7km/litter in town.\n\nA iteration of the OHV J-series four cylinders was also built, mainly for utility vehicles. Bore and stroke are for a total displacement of . This engine was also installed by Nissan's Taiwanese partner Yue Loong in several iterations of the Nissan Violet, long after Nissan themselves had stopped using OHV engines in passenger cars.\n\nApplications:\n\nThe J18 is a 1.8 L engine that was used in various Nissan models built in Mexico. Bore and stroke are , for an overall displacement of .\n\nThe J20 is a inline-6 engine. Bore and stroke are . It produces and was used in the 1966-1969 Nissan Cedric. The J20 is basically a J13 with two extra cylinders. A version of Volkswagen's two-litre, \"JL\" five-cylinder engine was used in the (Nissan) Volkswagen Santana with and was called the \"J\" engine by Nissan, but it shares nothing with the original J20 even though it happens to have the same exact displacement.\n\n"}
{"id": "2165320", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165320", "title": "Marcel Carpentier", "text": "Marcel Carpentier\n\nMarcel Maurice Carpentier (2 March 1895 – 14 September 1977) was a French Army general who served in World War I, World War II and First Indochina War.\n\nBorn on 2 March 1895 in Marseille, he was the eldest son in his family. At 18 he entered the French military academy of Saint-Cyr, in August 1914 he was commissioned as a second lieutenant, less than a year later he was the youngest captain in the French Army at only 20, he started training to become a pilot. During the First World War he was wounded multiple times.\n\nIn 1937 he was (chief of staff) of the of Levantine Troops. From 1940-1941 he served under Jean de Lattre de Tassigny as chief of staff of the commander in chief of North Africa at the headquarters of Vichy French forces in Tunisia. In 1942 Carpentier joined General Charles de Gaulle's Free French forces, becoming chief of staff of the French Expeditionary Corps in 1943. He continued in this post until 1944, when he became Commander of the 2nd Moroccan Division, with which he served until 1945.\nAfter World War II he was in charge of France's 15 military regions and was appointed Commandant supérieur of Tunisian Troops in 1946. He was made Grand Officer of the French Legion of Honor in 1947.\nIn 1949 he was appointed commander-in-chief of French Union forces in Indochina, but in 1950 following the disastrous defeat in the Battle of Route Coloniale 4 he was replaced by de Lattre. Carpentier then returned to Europe to become chief of staff assigned to NATO in 1951, serving there until 1952. In 1956 he was appointed Inspector General of Infantry, eventually retiring as Commander in Chief of NATO for Central Europe.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2165327", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165327", "title": "Juliusz Nowina-Sokolnicki", "text": "Juliusz Nowina-Sokolnicki\n\nJuliusz Nowina-Sokolnicki (b. December 16, 1925 in Pinsk, d. August 17, 2009 in Colchester, England) was a Polish president and head of one of the two governments which claimed in 1972 to be the successor to the exiled Polish government that was created to replace original Polish government, which fled to Romania in September 1939 at the start of World War II. The legitimacy of his government was disputed.\n\nNowina-Sokolnicki, who previously held several minor positions such as communications secretary within the Government of the Polish Republic in Exile and was close to President August Zaleski, claimed that Zaleski nominated him as his successor instead of Stanisław Ostrowski. This claim, however, remains disputed, as there claims to be little evidence in support. Most of the emigration as well as the present Government of Poland recognised Ostrowski and his successors as the legitimate Presidents in exile. (Lech Wałęsa accepted symbols of the pre-war presidency from Ryszard Kaczorowski).\n\nNowina-Sokolnicki is known for establishing the self styled Ordo Sancti Stanislai, an attempted revival of the Polish Order of Saint Stanislaus, founded in 1765.\n\nNowina-Sokolnicki also used the titles of \"Count\" or \"Prince\" even though there is no record of any such titles for either himself or his family, and no proof of his kinship to an aristocratic family bearing a similar name. There is no indication that the noble family ever resided in the Pinsk area in present-day Belarus.\n"}
{"id": "2165331", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165331", "title": "KUDL", "text": "KUDL\n\nKUDL (106.5 FM) is a radio station in Sacramento, California. Owned by Entercom, it broadcasts a Top 40 (CHR) format branded as \"106.5 The End\", and is one of two Top 40s in Entercom's Sacramento cluster, the other being Rhythmic Top 40 KSFM. Its studios are located in Foothill Farms (with a Sacramento address) and its transmitter is in Folsom.\n\nThe 106.5 frequency in Sacramento signed on in 1957 with the call letters KJML, which adopted a number of format changes before settling with the beautiful music format, commonly identified as \"instrumental elevator music.\"\n\nRoyce International Broadcasting headed by Edward R. Stolz II acquired the station in 1977 dropping the beautiful music format in favor of a soft rock/jazz music hybrid with a change of call letters to KWOD, named after quadrophonic sound, as the station was one of the first to experiment with the technology that never caught on. The initial format was programmed by Kevin Childs, who created the method of transitioning from rock to jazz via what was called \"The Crossroads of Jazz\". With no advertising of promotion, KWOD succeeded in achieving a dedicated following across the Sacramento Valley.\n\nIn the late 1970s, Royce Broadcasting decided to drop the adult contemporary/jazz hybrid music format in favor of a Top 40 music format.\n\nBy 1985, KWOD was the second rated station in the 12+ age demographic under the programming of Program Director Tommy \"Tom\" Chase and Music Director Edward \"Mr. Ed\" Lambert behind crosstown CHUrban powerhouse (and future sister station) FM 102. The popular morning show of this period was \"\"The Doug Masters and Marty Johnson's Morning Radio Clinic Show\"\" featuring Douglas \"Doug\" Masters and Martin \"Marty\" Johnson. Other jocks throughout the Tom Chase and Ed Lambert era included Dave Diamond, Dean Stevens, Dave Skyler, Paul Michaels, Gregory Lane, Melanie Evans, John Edwards, Panama Jack, Rick Foster, Russell \"Russ\" Martin, with Patrick \"Pat The Night Hawk\" Garrett, and Alexander Cosper. Tom left in late 1987 to program competitor KROY and Ed followed to become KROY's MD in early 1988.\n\nIn 1988 KWOD becomes Power Hits KWOD 106, the morning show became \"\"The Tom Sterling and Terry Steele Morning Show\"\" featuring Program Director Jeff Hunter (Terry Steele) and Charlie Simons (Tom Sterling) following the resignation of Marty Johnson, Doug Masters moved to middays. The rest of the full-time line-up of this period included Johnny \"Jammin'\" Edwards in middays, Panama Jack in afternoons, with Pat \"The Night Hawk\" Garrett in evenings, and Alex Cosper in late nights. Other jocks included Bill \"Wild Bill\" Shakespeare, Vincent \"Vince\" Simon, Rick Neal, with Rick Foster, and Rexton \"Rex\" McNeill did weekend overnights and was responsible for cleaning the KWOD 106's Power van after late night station parties. Tom and Terry left in 1989 to do mornings in San Jose and were replaced by a temporary irreverent show that failed called the Renegades.\n\nGerry Cagle arrived in late 1989 to oversee programming as Operations Manager. Ratings fell sharply beginning in 1988 (as documented in the Sacramento Bee) as KWOD fell into third place in a three-way battle with cross-town competitors KSFM and KROY. Even after KROY changed to The Eagle as a classic rock station, the ratings remained dismal leading to a change of format in May 1991 to a Top 40/modern rock music hybrid which evolved into a modern rock music format by June 1993.\n\nIn 1992, Gerry Cagle was instrumental in changing the CHR music format in favor of full-time modern rock. This is documented in multiple trade publications. Axl Marley and the late Dan Kennedy excelled in AM Drive with the new Modern Rock format. The much later line-up included the morning team of Shawn Cash and Jeff Jensen followed by Cosper in mid-days, Brad Adams in afternoons and Nick Monroe nights. Later in 1993, Monroe moved to afternoons and Joe “With You” Gomez moved to nights. Shortly after the move to their new headquarters in downtown Sacramento, part-time DJ Giles Hendriksen from the U.K. became the full-time afternoon host with Joe “With You” Gomez staying in the evening slot. Jamie Gates took over the evening slot as well as programming both the \"punk\" and \"industrial\" music shows. Jamie stayed on until 1997 when new management took over. By this time, Ally Storm had already departed to work at Live 105 in San Francisco. The station reached its ratings peak as an alternative station in the summer of 1995 with a 5.2 (12+) share, making it one of the highest rated alternative stations in America at the time (as documented in the 12/9/95 issue of Billboard). It also beat all four other rock stations in the market. \n\nRon Bunce assumed control of KWOD's programming in 1997, and took the station to an edgier harder rock direction, which peaked at 4.5 (12+) in the Arbitron ratings.\n\nThroughout the 2000s KWOD stayed below a 3 share 12+, and was not competitive with rock station KRXQ. Over time, there was a lot of staff turnover. Morning personalities Shawn & Jeff left for KZZO in 2001 and were succeeded by Boomer and the Dave. Comedian Kelly Pryce eventually replaced Dave after KWOD's eventual sale to Entercom and the show later featured DJ Mervin and Ian Gary. Andy Sims also came on board in 2001 for middays, replacing Derek Moore, who later went on to 96.9 The Eagle.\n\nIn 2003, after a protracted seven-year court battle wherein violations of the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act (RICO) were alleged, Entercom acquired KWOD from Royce International Broadcasting. Entercom left KWOD's Modern Rock/Alternative format intact until two years later.\n\nIn Spring 2005, the Royce-era KWOD played its final song (\"Nice to Know You\" by Incubus) then started a two-week-long transition to a Modern AC/Light Alternative format with an auditory progress indicator between songs. Artists such as John Mayer and Tracy Chapman were added as harder rock bands like Korn and Deftones were dropped. The station re-branded itself \"KWOD 2.0\", and released the entire on-air staff. The station later shifted back toward its original approach, but the heritage KWOD on-air staff (Boomer & The Dave, Andy Sims, Nick Monroe, and Capone) did not return. Under Entercom's management, KWOD's overall 12+ ratings dropped under a 3 share throughout 2005 and 2006. In the Winter of 2007, KWOD's 12+ ratings fell below a 2 share.\n\nIn early 2006, KWOD picked up the syndicated Adam Carolla Show for the morning drive, and began to feature projects and shows devised by the disc jockeys, including the returning David X and Andy Sims. KWOD also started to feature a strong program of music including a focus on modern punk and indie music complemented by a \"Never More Than 2 Minutes of Commercials\" campaign.\n\nIn February 2009, following the cancellation of the syndicated Adam Carolla Show, the morning drive time slot transitioned into playing music.\n\nIn May 2009, Program Director Curtiss Johnson posted a notice on KWOD's homepage announcing that the station would be shutting down on May 22. Citing economic difficulties as the primary reason for the shutdown, Johnson assured that the decision was local and not made by the owner corporation Entercom. At the time of the closure, the on-air staff consisted of Andy Hawk, Andy Sims, Rubin, Mike D \"Dezego\", and Laith the Intern.\n\nThe format change would leave Sacramento without a modern rock/alternative format station until March 3, 2010, when sister station KSSJ flipped from smooth jazz to a gold-based Alternative rock format, branded as \"Radio 94.7.\"\n\nJust before 9 a.m. on May 22, 2009, after playing Green Day's \"21 Guns\" and \"Short Skirt/Long Jacket\" by Sacramento band Cake, KWOD signed off.\n\nAt approximately 9 a.m. on May 22, 2009, the station became \"106.5 The Buzz - Totally 90s\", playing music exclusively from the 1990s, and using the call letters KBZC. The first song of the new \"Buzz\" format was \"Summertime\" by DJ Jazzy Jeff & the Fresh Prince. It was the first terrestrial all-1990s radio station, and the third all-1990s radio station after XM's '90s on 9 (now also on Sirius 9 since November 12, 2008) and the short-lived I-90 channel on Sirius from 2002.\n\nKBZC advertised itself as playing \"'90s and More\", meaning that in addition to 1990s hits, they include some classics from previous decades in their playlists. It also aired pre-recorded short sayings with phrases and product references from the 1990s. In addition, the Snapple lady responded to questions submitted on the website. It was also reported in the Orange County Register in June 2009 that Jamie White would do a morning show starting on June 11, 2009. White would leave the station on April 22, 2011.\n\nOn September 2, 2011, at 5 p.m., after playing \"I Wish\" by Skee-Lo, KBZC dropped the All-'90s format and shifted to Rhythmic Adult Contemporary, retaining the \"Buzz\" moniker, but added a new slogan: \"Feel Good Music.\" The first song under the relaunch was \"Don't Stop The Music\" by Rihanna. The station faced competition from the market's already established Rhythmic AC, KHYL, and featured a playlist that consisted of Rhythmic Pop currents and recurrents. The sudden flip came after it saw a decline in both its listener base and ratings, as well as an ill-fated attempt to expand its library to include music from the late 1980s and early 2000s.\nFollowing the abrupt flip of Hot AC station KGBY to a simulcast of KFBK, Entercom flipped the format of KBZC to Hot AC as \"Star 106.5\" at noon on December 9, 2011, following an hour of songs signifying a \"goodbye\" theme and/or with the word \"star\" in the title. The first song on \"Star\" was \"For the First Time\" by The Script. The flip gave the market two Hot AC's, the other being CBS Radio's KZZO.\n\nOn March 31, 2014, KBZC changed their call letters back to KWOD. However, as part of a warehousing move by Entercom, KWOD changed their call letters to KUDL on April 7. The KUDL call letters were formerly used on KWOD's long-time adult contemporary sister station in the Kansas City market. The KWOD call letters, in turn, moved to KUDL's former 1660 AM frequency in that market.\n\nOn February 2, 2017, Entercom announced its intent to merge with CBS Radio, who owned the fellow Sacramento AC and Adult CHR stations KYMX and KZZO, as well as KSFM, KNCI, and KHTK. The next day, Entercom announced that it would shut down KUDL's sister station KDND \"107.9 The End\", return its license to the FCC, and move KDND's intellectual property to KUDL. The FCC had declared the renewal of KDND's license to be subject to hearing, disputing whether the station had served the public interest; in 2007, a woman died from water intoxication resulting from her participation in a \"Hold Your Wee for a Wii\" contest held by the station's morning show. Entercom stated that this decision was intended \"to facilitate the timely FCC approvals for the planned combination with CBS Radio\".\n\nOn February 6, 2017, KDND's contemporary hit radio format, programming, and branding were relocated to KUDL as \"106.5 The End\". The callsign, however, remained KUDL. The Entercom merger was completed on November 17, 2017; all of CBS Radio's existing stations in the market, except for KSFM (which now serves as a rhythmic contemporary companion to KUDL), were divested into a trust, and substantially acquired by Bonneville International in August 2018.\n\n\nKUDL's HD2 subcarrier, called Subterranean, formerly aired a format featuring Deep Rock tracks and album cuts. As of February 22, 2017, KUDL-HD2 had been broadcasting Radio Disney until the end of May 2018, when Entercom's deal with Radio Disney expired. The channel now carries reruns of the station’s morning show \"The Wake Up Call\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2165339", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165339", "title": "Zen Gesner", "text": "Zen Gesner\n\nZen Brant Gesner (born June 23, 1970) is an American television and movie actor. He is perhaps most recognized for his roles as Sinbad in the syndicated television series \"The Adventures of Sinbad\", and was a regular cast member on the ABC daytime drama \"All My Children\" as bad boy and rapist Braden Lavery. More recently he's appeared in Miller Lite's \"Man Laws\" commercials as one of the \"Men Of The Square Table\". Gesner also appeared on an episode of the popular sitcom \"Friends\" in which he played Rachel Green's date. A graduate of the prestigious London Academy of Music and Dramatic Art (LAMDA), Gesner has appeared in several movies since his cinematic debut as \"Dale's Man #1\" in the 1994 comedy \"Dumb & Dumber\", including \"Osmosis Jones\" (as Emergency Room Doctor #1), \"Me, Myself & Irene\" (Agent Peterson), \"Shallow Hal\" (Ralph), and \"There's Something About Mary\" (as a bartender). In 2005, he had a small part in the romantic comedy \"Fever Pitch\" starring Drew Barrymore and Jimmy Fallon.\n\nGesner was born in Van Nuys, California, the son of stage actress Nan Martin and architect Harry Gesner. His parents named him after the Japanese Buddhist sect that preaches enlightenment through meditation. He has an older half-brother, Casey Martin Dolan, from his mother's first marriage to musician Robert E. Dolan, and two older half-siblings from his father's prior marriages, Jason Gesner (Hydroelectric Manager), and Tara Tanzer-Cartwright (Teacher).\n\nGesner was interested in music as a boy, and plays both the piano and trumpet. He became an aspiring actor while attending Santa Monica High School after landing a small part in the school's production of Hamlet, and went on to play leading roles in the school's rendition of \"Nicholas Nickleby\" and \"The Sound of Music\". Upon graduation, Gesner joined South Coast Repertory Theatre in Orange County, CA, performing in small roles and watching experienced actors ply their craft.\n\nAfter touring the audition circuit, Gesner sought admission to LAMDA's intensive summer programme on Shakespeare and was accepted. Towards the end of the course, he was offered a position in the general three-year programme at the Academy, whose North American alumni include such actors as Alexis Denisof, John Lithgow and Donald Sutherland.\n\nAs a student at LAMDA, Gesner not only performed in such plays as \"Richard III\", \"The Cherry Orchard\" and \"Anything Goes\", but also studied everything from poetry to archery to fire-blowing. He especially excelled in fencing and during his second year, earned an advanced certificate from The Society of British Fight Directors. Post-graduation from the Academy, the actor worked as Assistant Fight Director to the Royal Opera, London. Gesner made his feature film debut in \"Dumb & Dumber\" and put his real-life surfing skills to use as a surfer in the Chris Isaak music video, \"Somebody's Crying\".\n\nAfter four auditions and a screen test, Gesner won the title role in the syndicated fantasy-action series, \"The Adventures of Sinbad\". The series was filmed in Cape Town, South Africa, and involved heavy stuntwork and use of special effects. Between shoots, Gesner added to his physical performance skills by picking up tricks from a local circus troupe, such as tightrope walking, inverted rope-climbing, kicking/flipping up from the ground (known as \"kipping\"), and stunt flips. Although listed on the fall lineup for a third season, the well-rated series ended its run after the second season due to contract disputes between the production company and series distributors.\n\nSince the conclusion of \"Sinbad\" in 1998, Gesner has appeared on television series such as \"Friends\" and \"All My Children\". He played the role of David Patrick in the 2005 movie \"The Ringer\", a film about the Special Olympics. He was also the spokesperson for Chicken Of The Sea's 2005 \"What Women Want\" marketing campaign.\n\nGesner is brother-in-law to the Farrelly Brothers, and has received several small roles in their movies, including \"Dumb & Dumber\", \"Fever Pitch\", \"Kingpin\", \"Me, Myself & Irene\", \"Osmosis Jones\", \"Shallow Hal\" and \"There's Something About Mary\". Gesner also played (Ron) a gay man in the movie \"Boat Trip\". He appeared in the Man Laws commercials for Miller Lite.\n\nGesner was the \"Mystery Man\" in the opening of each episode of \"Take the Money & Run\". He hands the briefcase containing $100,000 to the two-person team of contestants and relays instructions.\n\nGesner moved back to the United States, where he met and married his wife Cynthia Farrelly Gesner (sister of the writer-directors Peter and Bobby Farrelly) in 1997. They moved to Hollywood, where Gesner worked part-time in construction while auditioning for television and movie roles.\n\nThey have three sons: Finn Harry Gesner (b. July 24, 1997 in Cape Town, South Africa), Rory Farrelly Gesner (b. October 9, 2000 in Santa Monica, California, and Tuck John Gesner (b. July 11, 2003 in Santa Monica, California). Gesner currently resides with his family in Malibu, California.\n\n"}
{"id": "2165341", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165341", "title": "Division of Lowe", "text": "Division of Lowe\n\nThe Division of Lowe was an Australian Electoral Division in the state of New South Wales. It was located in the inner western suburbs of Sydney, on the south shore of the Parramatta River. It included the suburbs of Drummoyne, Five Dock, Croydon, Croydon Park, Burwood, Enfield, Homebush, Strathfield, Concord, Rhodes, Canada Bay, Cabarita, Abbotsford and Mortlake.\n\nThe division was named after the Rt Hon Robert Lowe, 1st Viscount Sherbrooke, a former Member of the New South Wales Legislative Council, and former Home Secretary of the United Kingdom. The division was proclaimed at the redistribution of 11 May 1949, and was first contested at the 1949 federal election. It was first held by Sir William McMahon, who retained the seat for over 32 years, until 1982. He served prime minister from 1971 to 1972.\n\nFollowing the 2009 redistribution of NSW, the seat of Lowe was abolished for the 2010 Australian federal election, with the bulk of its territory transferring to nearby Reid.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2165346", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165346", "title": "Anton Schindler", "text": "Anton Schindler\n\nAnton Felix Schindler (13 June 1795 – 16 January 1864) was an associate, secretary, and early biographer of Ludwig van Beethoven. He was born in Meedel, Moravia, and died in Bockenheim (Frankfurt am Main).\n\nSchindler moved to Vienna in 1813 to study law, and from 1817 to 1822 was a clerk in a law office there. He was a competent, though not an exceptional violinist, and played in various musical ensembles, first meeting Beethoven in 1814. He gave up his law career, becoming in 1822 first violinist at the Theater in der Josefstadt, and from 1825 first violinist at the Theater am Kärntnertor. His acquaintance with Beethoven continued, and from 1822, he lived in the composer's house, as his unpaid secretary.\n\nThere was a break in the relationship in March 1825, and Karl Holz, a young violinist in the Schuppanzigh Quartet and friend of Beethoven, became Beethoven's secretary; though Schindler and Beethoven reconciled in August 1826, Holz continued as Beethoven's secretary with Schindler also tending to the composers' needs. \n\nAfter Beethoven's death in 1827, Schindler moved to Budapest where he was a music teacher, returning to Vienna in 1829. In 1831, he moved to Münster where he was a musical director; from 1835 he lived in Aachen, where he was municipal music director until 1840. In 1840, his biography of Beethoven was published in Münster. Later editions appeared in 1845, 1860 and 1871.\n\nIn 1841–42 he visited Paris, and met famous musicians of the day.\n\nHe possessed a great part of Beethoven's estate, in particular around 400 conversation books that people used to converse with Beethoven in his later years. Beethoven's estate, purchased by the Royal Prussian Library in Berlin in 1845, included 136 conversation books. Schindler retained the remainder, which were likely destroyed.\n\nAlthough the inconsistencies of Schindler's account of Beethoven's life were clear as early as the 1850s to lead Alexander Wheelock Thayer to commence research for his own pioneering Beethoven biography, it was a series of musicological articles published beginning in the 1970s that essentially destroyed Schindler's reputation of reliability. It was demonstrated that Schindler had falsified entries in Beethoven's Conversation Books (into which he inserted many spurious entries after the composer's death in 1827), and that he had exaggerated his period of close association with Beethoven (his claimed '11 or 12 years' was probably no more than five or six). It is also believed that Schindler burned more than half of Beethoven's conversation books and removed countless pages from those that survived. \"The Beethoven Compendium\" (Cooper 1991, p. 52) goes so far as to say that Schindler's propensity for inaccuracy and fabrication was so great, virtually nothing he has written about Beethoven can be relied on unless it is supported by other evidence. More recently, Theodore Albrecht has re-examined the question of Schindler's reliability, and as to his presumed destruction of a huge number of conversation books, concludes that this widespread belief could possibly have been exaggerated.\n\nAlthough Anton Schindler forged documents and otherwise became notorious as an unreliable biographer and music historian, his accounts on Beethoven's style of performing his own piano works are indispensable sources. Dr. George Barth, in his book \"The Pianist as Orator\" (Ithaca, NY: Cornell University Press, 1992) brings to light an approach to bringing the Beethoven keyboard literature to life, based on Schindler and his testimonies, quite different from the Carl Czerny accounts on Beethoven the world has accepted since Schindler's forgeries compromised the latter's credibility. Discrepancies in metronome markings by Czerny as well as accounts of Beethoven's own rhythm and tempo choices create a worthier image of Schindler's credibility in that regard, and his valuable perspective on interpretation of Beethoven's piano music.\n\nAnton Schindler plays a central role in the highly fictionalized Beethoven film \"Immortal Beloved\", in which Schindler attempts to discover the identity of the mysterious addressee of Beethoven's most famous love letter. In the film Schindler is portrayed by Dutch actor Jeroen Krabbé.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2165349", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165349", "title": "Albert Park and Lake", "text": "Albert Park and Lake\n\nAlbert Park and Albert Park Lake are situated in the City of Port Phillip, Victoria, Australia, 3 km south of the Melbourne CBD.\n\nThe park encompasses of parkland including Albert Park Lake () and provides numerous ovals, sporting facilities, the Albert Park Public Golf Course, a walking track around the lake, and the Melbourne Grand Prix Circuit. It is bordered by Albert Road, Queens Road, Fitzroy Street and Canterbury Road. Surrounding suburbs include Albert Park, Middle Park, St Kilda, Melbourne and South Melbourne.\n\nAlbert Park was originally part of the extensive Yarra River Delta, which involved vast areas of wetlands and sparse vegetation, interspersed by lagoons, some of which were quite large, including the lagoon from which Albert Park Lake was created. The area was occupied by localised tribes of Indigenous Australians, the Wurundjeri people, for around 40,000+ years prior to European settlement, and was one of many sites around Melbourne where regular \"corroborees\" (meetings) were held.\n\nFollowing British settlement from 1835 onwards, much of the Yarra River delta was drained to dry the land and enable agriculture, housing and grazing. Through the 1840s and 1850s, the area now occupied by Albert Park itself was unofficial parkland, used for military training, grazing and hunting. In 1864 the area was officially proclaimed a public park and named Albert Park in honour of Queen Victoria's devoted consort, Prince Albert.\n\nBy 1875, areas of the park along Queens Road and in St. Kilda, had been sold off for housing and other uses, reducing the park from 385 to 231 hectares. Through much of the late 19th Century, allotments were allocated for sporting facilities such as Football, Tennis, Bowling, Cricket and Boating. Between 1873 and 1880, silt in the lagoons was excavated and used as infill around the lagoon itself to create a permanent lake. In 1890, water was diverted from the Yarra River to help fill the lake. Through the late 19th and early 20th Centuries, the park was used as a tip, a camp for the armed services, scenic drives, picnics and many other forms of recreation.\nIn 1882, 1918 and 1935, adjoining educational institutions acquired land from the park, to much opposition at the time. From 1941–1950, the Army occupied large areas of land in the park, this land was given back to the park during the 1950s and 1960s. From 1953–1958, motor racing was held within the park, including the 1953 and 1956 Australian Grands Prix was held within the park, around the lake, until it was moved to the circuit on Phillip Island. Through much of the 1960s, 1970s and 1980s, general park maintenance was neglected as funding became hard to come by, finances were collected from a carousel and similar facilities.\n\nDuring the early 1990s, the lake was drained to remove weed infestations, rubbish and other debris that had accumulated over the years. In 1993, it was announced that the Australian Grand Prix would be moved from the Adelaide Street Circuit to a reconstructed Albert Park Circuit, loosely following the 1950s configuration. This was met with much opposition, but the project went ahead and a host of sporting facilities were subsequently constructed and funding allocated to improve the parklands followed.\n\nAlbert Park is enjoyed by approximately five million visitors annually. Vestiges of Albert Park's Aboriginal history still remain, the most noticeable being the large ancient River Red Gum Tree, reputed to be the site of many corroborees. It is thought to be over 300 years old, the oldest remnant tree in the Port Phillip area, located next to Junction Oval on the corner of Fitzroy Street and Queens Road, St Kilda.\n\nThe Clarendon Street gates were originally built of wooden pickets in 1910, they were cast in wrought iron in 1939 and can still be seen today.\n\nThe parkland, Albert Park lake, and Gunn Island, provides a grassy wetlands habitat for nearly two hundred bird species, both resident and transient. A 1990 study recorded 31 bird species as breeding in the park with a total of 21 these indigenous species.\nMigratory species include the flame robin, white-throated needletail and sacred kingfisher.\n\nLocally rare native bird species that have been recorded in the park include little egret, laughing kookaburra, Australian shelduck, Cape Barren goose, great-crested grebe, white-bellied sea eagle and whiskered tern, while little ravens, Australian magpies, long-billed corella, sulphur-crested cockatoo, willie wagtails and magpie-larks are common. Common lake birds include black swans and Pacific black ducks, Australasian grebe, Eurasian coots, purple swamphen, dusky moorhen and all four freshwater cormorant species. Feral white swans were removed from the park between the 1980s and 1990s. Feral common mynas and common starling are also numerous in the park.\n\nNative mammals include common brushtail possums, common ringtail possums and water rat. Common bent-wing bats, white-striped mastiff bats and Gould's wattled bat have also been recorded in the park. Feral black rats are also common in the park. Foxes have also been spotted on occasion at night.\n\nSeveral reptiles and amphibians, such as the marbled gecko make their home in the park.\n\nThe lake is home to some freshwater fish species. The department of Primary Industries releases native golden perch for recreational fishing purposes. European carp, a noxious pest are the most commonly found fish in the lake and is subject to control programs.\n\nA vegetation survey in 1992 found 117 species of plants, a mixture of native and exotic species.\n\nA native revegetation area in the south east corner of the park features a large ancient river red gum tree known as the \"Corroboree Tree\", a heritage registered eucalypt of cultural significance as a pre-European gathering place.\n\nThere are nine separate picnic areas, most with barbecues, shelters and toilets. There is a vast network of sealed and unsealed, shared pedestrian/bicycle paths, centred on a main route that circles the lake. There are several playgrounds of varying sizes, the park also hosts many large sporting facilities, including:\n\n\n\nThe Australian Grand Prix is held around the Melbourne Grand Prix Circuit around the lake in March each year; usually on the Labour Day weekend. Every May the RSPCA holds the Million Paws Walk to raise needed income for their work with animals.\n\nThe Albert Sailing Club holds regular regattas on Saturdays. The Albert Park Yacht club, established in 1871 and the oldest continuing yacht club in Victoria, runs sailing classes over winter months on Albert Park lake and also has competitive sailing on Saturdays.\n\nAlbert Park is home to a 5 km Parkrun event. Albert Melbourne Parkrun starts at 8am every Saturday from the Coot Picnic area.\n\n"}
{"id": "2165356", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165356", "title": "Wingate University", "text": "Wingate University\n\nWingate University is a private \"Judeo-Christian\" university with campuses in Wingate, Charlotte, and Hendersonville, North Carolina. It was founded in 1896.\n\nIn 1896, Wingate University began as 'The Wingate School,' a primary and secondary institution founded by the Baptist Associations of Union County, North Carolina and Chesterfield County, South Carolina in response to a dearth of locally-available public schools. The school took its name from Dr. Washington Manly Wingate, a former president of Wake Forest College, and continued to offer a primary and secondary education until the proliferation of public schools in the early 20th century.\n\nIn 1923, The Wingate School began offering the first two years of a baccalaureate education and became Wingate Junior College. The years leading to World War II were difficult for the institution. Though it began receiving financial support from The Baptist State Convention of North Carolina soon after becoming a college, this support was withdrawn during The Great Depression. It was also during this period, in 1932, that the college's administration building was destroyed by fire. The college survived, however, as a result of the work of its administration, faculty, and supporters as well as the post-WWII college enrollment boom. The Baptist State Convention resumed financial support in 1949, and Charles Cannon, a local businessman and philanthropist, began making substantial donations to the college beginning in the 1950s.\n\nIn 1952, Wingate Junior College was accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools, and in 1977, became a four-year institution, Wingate College. The college continued to grow, especially under the leadership of Jerry McGee, added graduate programs, and became Wingate University in 1995.\n\nWingate offers 35 undergraduate majors, 10 pre-professional programs and 38 minors. The university offers five types of bachelor’s degrees: Bachelor of Arts, Bachelor of Science, Bachelor of Science in Nursing, Bachelor of Music Education and Bachelor of Liberal Studies. Three add-on licensure programs in the field of education are available as are six master’s degree programs: accounting, business, education, teaching, physician assistant studies and sport management. Wingate offers four doctoral degree programs: education, pharmacy, physical therapy and occupational therapy. One-in-five Wingate undergraduate students is preparing to be a pharmacist, physician assistant, physical therapist, occupational therapist or nurse and 65 percent of graduate students are enrolled in health sciences.\n\nThe Wingate University School of Pharmacy () is a pharmacy school located in Wingate, North Carolina. The school, part of Wingate University, offers a four-year Doctor of Pharmacy degree (Pharm.D) and is nationally accredited by the Accreditation Council for Pharmacy Education. As of 2017, tied with 6 other programs, it was ranked #81 among pharmacy colleges in the US.\n\nStarted in 1978, the university's W'International program allows eligible juniors to take a two-credit-hour seminar, which ends with a 10-day travel experience for $1,500 or less. Wingate also offers language-immersion summer programs in Costa Rica and Quebec.\n\nWingate student-athletes compete in 22 NCAA Division II sports. These sports include: baseball, softball, men's and women's basketball, men's and women's cross country, men's and women's golf, men's and women's soccer, men's and women's swimming and diving, men's and women's tennis, men's and women's track & field, men's and women's lacrosse, football and volleyball. Wingate's mascot is the Bulldog.\n\nIn 2016 the men's soccer team won the school's and the South Atlantic Conference's first team championship, by defeating University of Charleston 2-0 in the national title game in Kansas City, Missouri.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2165382", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165382", "title": "KVEW", "text": "KVEW\n\nKVEW, virtual channel 42 (UHF digital channel 27), is an ABC-affiliated television station licensed to Kennewick, Washington, United States and serving the Tri-Cities (Richland/Pasco/Kennewick) area. The station is owned by Morgan Murphy Media. KVEW's studios are located on North Edison Street in Kennewick, and its transmitter is located on Jump Off Joe Butte.\n\nAlthough identifying as a station in its own right, KVEW is considered a semi-satellite of KAPP (channel 35) in Yakima. As such, it simulcasts all network and syndicated programming as provided through its parent, and the two stations share a website. However, KVEW airs separate commercial inserts and legal identifications. Local newscasts are simulcast on both stations. KVEW serves the eastern half of the Yakima/Tri-Cities market while KAPP serves the western portion. The two stations are counted as a single unit for ratings purposes. Master control and some internal operations are based at the studios of sister station and fellow ABC affiliate KXLY-TV on West Boone Avenue in Spokane.\n\nOn satellite, KVEW is only available on Dish Network, while DirecTV carries KAPP instead. Both providers do not carry either station's MeTV subchannel.\n\nThe station began serving the Tri-Cities region in October 1970, a month after sister station KAPP signed on. Before KVEW's existence, KEPR-TV (channel 19) had carried ABC as a secondary affiliation until 1959; KNBS-TV (channel 22) operated briefly in nearby Walla Walla, Washington as an ABC affiliate in 1960; KNDU (channel 25) signed on in 1961 and became the area's primary ABC affiliate until 1965, when it switched its primary affiliation to NBC. Both KEPR-TV and KNDU shared ABC programming from that point until KVEW signed on and all ABC programming moved to KVEW.\n\nThe station began airing Spokane's MeTV affiliate KXMN-LD on a digital subchannel in September 2006. KVEW was one of the remaining stations to sign-off every night, but that practice ended in 2012 when \"World News Now\" was added to the programming lineup.\n\nOn December 22, 2008, KVEW discontinued its 6 p.m. and weekend newscasts. The 11 p.m. newscast was reduced to a five-minute broadcast before \"Nightline\", and post-January 2013, \"Jimmy Kimmel Live!\" In addition to this move, 17 employees from KVEW and KAPP were laid off.\n\nWith the cancellation of \"The Insider\" and \"Extra\" moving from 6 p.m. to 7:30 on September 11, 2017, KVEW began airing local news at 6:00, for the first time in almost a decade.\n\nThe station's digital signal is multiplexed:\nKVEW is rebroadcast on one station-owned translator in Walla Walla, Washington, K14HT channel 14. KVEW has a construction permit on K34JV-D of which will be a digital translator for KVEW once the construction permit for K34JV-D is completed.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2165384", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165384", "title": "EMI Films", "text": "EMI Films\n\nEMI Films was a British film studio and distributor. A subsidiary of the EMI conglomerate, the corporate name was not used throughout the entire period of EMI's involvement in the film industry, from 1969 to 1986, but the company's brief connection with Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer and Anglo-EMI, the division under Nat Cohen, and the later company as part of the Thorn EMI conglomerate (following the merger with Thorn) are outlined here.\n\nThe company was formed after the takeover of Associated British Picture Corporation (ABPC) in 1969 by EMI, following the acquisition of Warner Bros.' shares in ABPC the previous year. At the time ABPC owned 270 ABC Cinemas, a half share in the ITV contractor Thames Television, Elstree Studios at Shenley Road, and had recently bought Anglo-Amalgamated, a film studio in which Nat Cohen had been a partner.\n\nEMI moved into film production with the foundation of a new company, EMI-Elstree. Bernard Delfont appointed writer-director Bryan Forbes as the head of production at Elstree in April 1969 for three years at £40,000 a year, plus a percentage of the profits. As part of the general shake up of EMI, Nat Cohen was appointed to the Board.\n\nEMI announced they would make 28 films for $36 million – 13 of these would be from Cohen's unit for £7 million, the rest from Forbes'. Bernard Delfont called it \"probably the most ambitious program ever undertaken by a British film company.\"\n\nForbes announced his intention to make a variety of films at Elstree, steering away from what he called the \"pornography of violence.\" He claimed EMI would make 14 films in 18 months with such stars as Peter Sellers and Roger Moore at a cost of £5–10 million pounds in total. His aim was to keep budgets down and create a varied slate which would increase the chances of appealing to audiences and making a sufficient return to continue productions.\n\nForbes soon announced his slate of projects, including: \n\n\"This is the first serious effort to revitalize the British film industry in 20 years,\" said Forbes. He added, \"We intend to give youth a chance and not merely pay lip service to it. This is our first program and it won't be our last.\"\n\nHowever, the first few films of Forbes' regime actually performed poorly commercially: \"Eyewitness\", \"Hoffmann\", \"And Soon the Darkness\" and \"The Man Who Haunted Himself\" (starring Moore). \"The Breaking of Bumbo\" (all 1970), and \"Mr. Forbush and the Penguins\" (1971) flopped and \"A Fine and Private Place\" was abandoned. Forbes clashed with Bernard Delfont and their American backers, in this case Columbia, over the artistic and commercial value of director Joseph Losey's film \"The Go-Between\" (1970). Forbes was also criticised within EMI for directing his own film, \"The Raging Moon\" (US: \"Long Ago, Tomorrow\", 1971). \"The Railway Children\" (1970) and \"Tales of Beatrix Potter\" (1971) were Forbes' only hits.\n\nThe company was affected with labour problems. Forbes felt as though he did not have the support of the EMI board, arguing that he never had the funds to market his films, in contrast with those available to Anglo-EMI, which was headed by Nat Cohen.\n\nForbes resigned in March 1971, after committing himself to a no-redundancy policy. He had made eleven films in total for an estimated cost of £4 million. Although Forbes' regime was seen at the time to have been a commercial failure, he later claimed that by 1993 his £4 million program of films had eventually brought EMI a profit of £16 million.\n\nAmong the films Forbes wished to make but was unable to during his time at Elstree were adaptations of \"The Living Room\", the play by Graham Greene to be directed by Michael Powell; a musical about the Bernado Boys; and \"The Loud, Loud Silence\" a post-apocalyptic story from Richard Condon. He turned down \"Ned Kelly\" (1970) because its projected budget was too high.\n\nIn April 1970, EMI struck up a co-production agreement with Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer. The Hollywood studio announced they would sell their Borehamwood facility (\"MGM-British Studios\") and move their equipment to EMI's Elstree studio. MGM and EMI would then distribute and produce films in co-operation through a joint venture to be called MGM-EMI. and MGM began to finance some of EMI's productions. EMI's studio complex was renamed EMI-MGM Elstree Studios while a film distribution company MGM-EMI Distributors Ltd. was formed as part of the co-production agreement. This company, headed by Mike Havas would handle domestic distribution of MGM and EMI-produced films in the United Kingdom.\n\nIt was originally announced that MGM-EMI would make six to eight films a year, but they ended up producing far fewer. Forbes was given the title of managing director of MGM-EMI to add to his existing title of head of production. In July 1970 MGM-EMI announced they would make four co-productions: \"The Go-Between\", \"Get Carter\", \"The Boyfriend\" and \"The Last Run\" directed by John Boorman. Of these only the last was not made.\n\nMGM pulled out of the amalgamation in 1973, and became a member of CIC, which took over international distribution of MGM produced films. At this point the distribution company became EMI Film Distributors Ltd., and EMI-MGM Elstree Studios reverted to EMI-Elstree Studios.\n\nEMI's other filmmaking division, Anglo-EMI Film Distributors Ltd, which had come out of Anglo-Amalgamated, was run autonomously by Nat Cohen. This wing of the company had released films such as \"Percy\" (1971). They also financed and distributed a series of films made by Hammer Film Productions, which partly came about through Bernard Delfont's friendship with James Carreras.\n\nNat Cohen took over Forbes' responsibilities as head of production after his resignation in 1971. Cohen backed productions intended for international success, and EMI had a more obviously commercial outlook.\n\nIn October 1971, EMI's chairman John Read admitted the film division had performed disappointingly. \"Profits were negligible last year and we felt it was desirable to make one or two provisions to write off some of the costs.\" However films like \"On the Buses\" and \"Up Pompeii\" (both 1971) performed well in relation to their budgets. \"The experts say you're doing well if you make money out of one in three films,\" said Read. \"We see filmmaking as a significant profit earner in the future.\"\n\nCohen was responsible for overseeing about 70% of the films produced in the UK during 1973, following a significant decline in domestic projects overall. In particular, long-term duopoly rival Rank had by now greatly reduced its own investment in British film production to a token presence. Cohen was not unaware of the problems inherent in his dominant position. Meanwhile, dependent on support from the most profitable parts of EMI, the company's financial position meant that they had to avoid backing any risky productions.\n\nIn May 1973, Cohen announced a £3 million production slate of movies including an adaptation of \"Swallows and Amazons\" (1974) and a sequel to \"Alfie\" (1966) released as \"Alfie Darling\" (1975).\n\nThe greatest success of Cohen's regime was \"Murder on the Orient Express\" (1974), which Cohen later claimed was the first British movie fully financed by a British company to reach the top of the American box office charts.\n\nIn July 1975, Cohen announced a £6 million programme of new films, including \"Seven Nights in Japan\" and \"To the Devil a Daughter\" (both 1976). These were not particularly successful.\n\nCohen resigned as chairman on 31 December 1977.\n\nIn May 1976, the company purchased British Lion Films and the two men who ran British Lion, Michael Deeley and Barry Spikings, became joint managing directors of EMI Distributors, with Nat Cohen remaining as chairman and chief executive. They also joined the EMI board, headed by Bernard Delfont.\n\nDeeley and Spiking's method was to only make a film if at least half the budget was put up by an American studio, reducing their financial risk although making the studio's product less obviously British. They focused on movies with international appeal – i.e. action films – and major stars.\n\nThe initial Deeley-Spikings slate included three films shot in the US, with $18 million in all\" \"The Deer Hunter\", \"Convoy\" and \"The Driver\" (all 1978). They also made three British-based films, \"Death on the Nile\" (1978), \"Warlords of Atlantis\" (1978) and \"Sweeney 2\" (1978). Films announced by not made include \"The Last Gun\" and \"Chinese Bandit\".\n\nEMI also signed an agreement to invest $5 million in Columbia films. They picked \"Close Encounters of the Third Kind\", \"The Deep\" and \"The Greatest\" (all 1977). Muhammad Ali played himself in the last of these.\n\nIn July 1976 EMI bought Roger Gimbel's production company, Tomorrow Enterrrises, and formed EMI Television, headed by Gimbel. They made a large number of American TV movies like \"The Amazing Howard Hughes\" (1977) and \"Deadman's Curve\" (1978).\n\nEMI backed out of funding \"Monty Python's Life of Brian\" (1979) at the last moment, after Bernard Delfont read the script and objected to its treatment of religion.\n\nIn April 1978, EMI announced they would make films with the newly formed Orion Pictures, including \"Arabian Adventure\" (1979) and other projects.\n\nMichael Deeley left EMI in 1979 but Barry Spikings remained in charge of film production.\n\nSpikings announced a slate of films under his auspices: \"The Jazz Singer\" with Neil Diamond, \"The Elephant Man\" (both 1980), \"Honky Tonk Freeway\" (1981) Franco Zeffirelli's biopic of Maria Callas, \"Discoland\", \"The Awakening\", and \"The Knight\" directed by Ridley Scott.\n\nDelfont created a new company, Associated Film Distribution, to distribute films of EMI and ITC Entertainment, then controlled by Lew Grade, his brother. EMI's film division was renamed Thorn EMI Screen Entertainment, to reflect EMI's merger with Thorn Electrical Industries to become Thorn EMI in 1979.\n\nIn March 1980, EMI were only making one film in Britain \"The Mirror Crack'd\", while was released at the end of the year, but was a box-office failure. Lord Delfont announced that the company had purchased two British scripts, \"The Defense\" by John Mortimer and \"Off the Record\" by Frederick Forsyth. He admitted that sixty percent of the company's film budget would be spent in America the following year but \"100% of the profits would come to this country... We have got to make films we believe are international, to get the money to bring exports back to this country.\"\n\nIn February 1981, Barry Spikings announced a slate of films worth £70 million, including \"Honky Tonk Freeway\", \"Memoirs of a Survivor\", \"Comrades\" and \"The Knight\" (a Walter Hill film). The latter was not made.\n\nIn March 1981, Spikings admitted AFD has not \"gotten off to a flying start\" and would be wound up, with Universal taking over distribution of EMI Films. He argued that \"production and distribution are not linked\" and pointed to the five Oscars that EMI films had earned. In particular, \"Can't Stop the Music\" (1980), \"Honky Tonk Freeway\", and \"Raise the Titanic\" (1980) had been box-office failures.\n\nIn January 1983, Barry Spikings left the company and Verity Lambert was appointed head of production. Gary Dartnall became executive chairman. Lambert's first slate was \"Slayground\", \"Comfort and Joy\", \"Illegal Aliens\" (which became \"Morons from Outer Space\") and \"Dreamchild\". Lambert said they aimed to make five films a year ranging in budget from $5 to $10 million.\n\nIn December 1984, Thorn EMI offered investors the chance to invest in several films by issuing £36 million worth of shares. The films were \"A Passage to India\" (1984), \"Morons from Outer Space\", \"Dreamchild\", \"Wild Geese II\" and \"The Holcroft Covenant\" (all 1985).\n\nIn March 1985, Thorn-EMI announced they would set up a production fund worth $175 million to make twenty films. Financier John Reis said the fund would be used as loans for filmmakers or to invest in films budgeted around $13–14 million. Reis said that the films would be made for international audiences, their typical audience member being a 42-year-old factory worker from Cincinnati.\n\nLambert resigned in July 1985. After this TESE wound down its in-house production arm and relied on films from independent outfits. The last films made under her watch were \"Clockwise\" and \"Link\".\n\nLambert later recalled the after she was hired, \"the person who hired me left, and the person who came in didn't want to produce films and didn't want me. While I managed to make some films I was proud of... \"Dreamchild\", and \"Clockwise\"... it was terribly tough and not a very happy experience. But I was determined to see out my three-year contract. By the end I'd had enough of corporate life and wanted to see what I could do as an independent.\"\n\nThorn EMI later sold its film production and distribution arm (Thorn EMI Screen Entertainment), home video (Thorn EMI Video), and cinema (ABC Cinemas) operations to businessman Alan Bond in April 1986. Bond, in turn, sold it to The Cannon Group a week later. A year after the purchase, a cash-strapped Cannon sold the film library to Weintraub Entertainment Group.\n\nThe library ended up in the hands of several companies over the years and is now owned by StudioCanal, a sister company to Universal Music Group who acquired EMI in 2012 and parent company Canal+ Group's acquisition of European cinema operator UGC who acquired the library's then-owner, the United Kingdom-based Lumiere Pictures and Television in 1996, via Cannon Films. EMI Films also owned Elstree Studios in Hertfordshire, England; in turn, Cannon ended up purchasing the studio as well, but later sold it to Brent Walker Group plc in 1988, who in turn ended up selling half of the EMI Elstree Studios site to Tesco for a supermarket, before Hertsmere Council eventually acquired what was left of the Elstree Studios, and, as of 2018, still operates it as a film and television studios centre.\n\nEMI financed films under a variety of corporate names and with a series of production partners. Below are the main ones:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2165386", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165386", "title": "Cameron Thor", "text": "Cameron Thor\n\nCameron Thor (born March 17, 1960) is an American actor, screenwriter, film director, acting coach and convicted sex offender. He is best known for his appearances in the films \"Jurassic Park\" and \"Hook\". In 2016, he was sentenced to six years in prison for sexually assaulting a 13-year-old girl.\n\nThor appeared in the 1991 films \"Hook\" and \"Curly Sue\". He is best known for playing Lewis Dodgson in the 1993 film \"Jurassic Park\". Thor had originally auditioned for the role of Ian Malcolm. While his character was a major part of the sequel novel, \"The Lost World\", the character was left out of . He then worked as an acting coach in Los Angeles. He and his wife Alice Carter co-own Carter Thor Studio.\n\nThor is married to Alice Carter and has a son.\n\nOn June 4, 2014, he was charged with the sexual assault of a 13-year-old girl by the Los Angeles County Sheriff's office. He was released on $2.6 million bail, later reduced to $1 million. The Los Angeles District Attorney's office filed 14 counts against Thor, including kidnapping and sexual assault against a minor, specifically a 13-year-old girl who sought acting lessons. The District Attorney alleges that Thor gave the girl \"a controlled substance ... marijuana\" and sexually assaulted her. Thor pleaded not guilty to all 14 counts.\n\nThe alleged victim, Jordyn Ladell, named herself in an interview with \"The Hollywood Reporter\" shortly before the start of Thor's trial. Thor's trial began on August 17, 2015. At that time, 13 of the charges against him had been dropped in recent weeks. The only remaining charge was performing a lewd act on a child. The jury began deliberations after the trial ended on August 25. The next day, he was found guilty. In October, Thor's sentencing was postponed until November 20. That same month, Thor hired defense attorney Mark Geragos to replace his previous lawyer. On November 20, Thor's sentencing was postponed again until January 8, 2016. On January 8, Thor's sentencing was delayed until February 29, after Geragos filed a motion for a new trial based on insufficient evidence and \"ineffective assistance of counsel\". In March 2016, the judge denied Geragos' requests and reaffirmed the guilty verdict. On April 27, 2016, Thor was sentenced to six years in state prison.\n"}
{"id": "2165388", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165388", "title": "Truth-value semantics", "text": "Truth-value semantics\n\nIn formal semantics, truth-value semantics is an alternative to Tarskian semantics. It has been primarily championed by Ruth Barcan Marcus, H. Leblanc, and M. Dunn and N. Belnap. It is also called the \"substitution interpretation\" (of the quantifiers) or substitutional quantification.\n\nThe idea of these semantics is that universal (existential) quantifier may be read as a conjunction (disjunction) of formulas in which constants replace the variables in the scope of the quantifier. E.g. ∀xPx may be read (Pa & Pb & Pc &...) where a,b,c are individual constants replacing all occurrences of x in Px.\n\nThe main difference between truth-value semantics and the standard semantics for predicate logic is that there are no domains for truth-value semantics. Only the truth clauses for atomic and for quantificational formulas differ from those of the standard semantics. Whereas in standard semantics atomic formulas like Pb or Rca are true if and only if (the referent of) b is a member of the extension of the predicate P, respectively, if and only if the pair (c,a) is a member of the extension of R, in truth-value semantics the truth-values of atomic formulas are basic. A universal (existential) formula is true if and only if all (some) substitution instances of it are true. Compare this with the standard semantics, which says that a universal (existential) formula is true if and only if for all (some) members of the domain, the formula holds for all (some) of them; e.g. ∀xA is true (under an interpretation) if and only if for all k in the domain D, A(k/x) is true (where A(k/x) is the result of substituting k for all occurrences of x in A). (Here we are assuming that constants are names for themselves—i.e. they are also members of the domain.)\n\nTruth-value semantics is not without its problems. First, the strong completeness theorem and compactness fail. To see this consider the set {F(1), F(2)...}. Clearly the formula ∀xF(x) is a logical consequence of the set, but it is not a consequence of any finite subset of it (and hence it is not deducible from it). It follows immediately that both compactness and the strong completeness theorem fail for truth-value semantics. This is rectified by a modified definition of logical consequence as given in Dunn and Belnap 1968.\n\nAnother problem occurs in free logic. Consider a language with one individual constant c that is nondesignating and a predicate F standing for 'does not exist'. Then ∃xFx is false even though a substitution instance (in fact every such instance under this interpretation) of it is true. To solve this problem we simply add the proviso that an existentially quantified statement is true under an interpretation for at least one substitution instance in which the constant designates something that exists.\n\n"}
{"id": "2165413", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165413", "title": "Theodore Modis", "text": "Theodore Modis\n\nTheodore Modis (born August 11, 1943) is a strategic business analyst, futurist, physicist, and international consultant. He specializes in applying fundamental scientific concepts to predicting social phenomena. In particular he uses the law of natural growth in competition as expressed by the logistic function or S-curve to forecast markets, product sales, primary-energy substitutions, the diffusion of technologies, and generally any process that grows in competition. He is a vehement critic of the concept of the Technological Singularity.\n\nHe currently lives in Lugano, Switzerland.\n\nHe went to Columbia University, New York, where he received a Masters in Electrical Engineering and a Ph.D. in High Energy Physics, (sponsor J. Steinberger). His secondary education was in Greece at Anatolia College in Thessaloniki, Greece.\n\nModis carried out research in particle physics at Brookhaven National Laboratories and CERN before moving to work at Digital Equipment Corporation for more than a decade as the head of a management science consultants group. He has on occasion taught at Columbia University, the University of Geneva, Webster University, the European business schools INSEAD and IMD, and was a professor at DUXX Graduate School of Business Leadership in Monterrey, Mexico between 1998-2001. He has been in the advisory board of the international journal Technological Forecasting & Social Change since 1991. He is also the founder of \"Growth Dynamics\", a Swiss-based organization specializing in business strategy, strategic forecasting and management consulting.\n\nHe has published about one hundred articles in scientific and in business journals, as well as ten books: \"Predictions\", \"Conquering Uncertainty\", \"An S-Shaped Trail to Wall Street\" (treating the New York Stock Exchange as an ecosystem), \"Predictions: 10 Years Later\", \"Bestseller Driven\", \"Natural Laws in the Service of the Decision Maker\", \"Decision-Making for a New World\", \"An S-shaped Adventure: \"Predictions\" 20 Years Later\", \"Fortune Favors the Bold: A Woman’s Odyssey through a Turbulent Century\", and \"Science with Street Value: A Physicist's Wanderings off the Beaten Track\". His books have appeared in a number of other languages; \"Predictions\" has been translated into German, Japanese, and Greek, and \"Conquering Uncertainty\" has been translated into Chinese Long Form, Chinese Short Form, Greek, and Dutch.\n\n\n\nHe has created two applications for iPhone/iPad, \"The S_Curve\" and \"Biorhythm_Science\". Together with Vasco Almeida they created applications that forecast stock prices like species by treating the stock market as an ecosystem: \"Stock Fcsts\" and \"2Stock Fcsts\" for the iPhone and \"Stocks' Futures\" and \"2Stocks' Future\" for the iPad.\n\n\nModis is the father of Yorgo Modis, the grandson of Theodoros Modis, and nephew of Georgios Modis.\n\n"}
{"id": "2165422", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165422", "title": "Beetle Adventure Racing", "text": "Beetle Adventure Racing\n\nBeetle Adventure Racing! is a racing game released for the Nintendo 64 in 1999. It was developed by Paradigm Entertainment and published by Electronic Arts. Each vehicle in the game is a Volkswagen New Beetle, which was released the previous year.\n\nIn addition to its original release, the game was released in Australia as HSV Adventure Racing. This version replaced the Beetles with HSV Clubsports.\n\nGameplay is similar to Electronic Arts's own \"Need for Speed\" series.\n\n\"Beetle Adventure Racing\" supports up to four players. Two player races can be held in any of the tracks, provided they have been unlocked in the single player championship. Two to four players can also take part in the \"Beetle Battle\" mode, a vehicular combat mode in which players compete to collect six differently colored ladybugs (HSV pendants in \"HSV Adventure Racing\"), attempt to destroy the other competitors, and race for the exit once all the ladybugs are collected.\n\nSingle player has two modes, Single Race and Championship. Single Race is single player racing against computer-controlled vehicles on any stage that has been unlocked in the Championship mode. Championship is considered the main game, where players are given three circuits starting with Novice, Advanced, and Professional, with a fourth secret circuit, the Bonus Circuit, which is unlocked after completing all previous circuits.\n\nUpon completing each circuit, new vehicles and tracks will be unlocked. Two special vehicles are unlocked by completing both Professional and Bonus circuits, the Alien Beetle and the Police Beetle respectively. The Alien Beetle's horn consists of the words, \"We come in peace,\" spoken in an alien voice. The Police Beetle uses a siren, in which all other computer racers stop and pull over upon hearing it.\n\nFour different types of crates are scattered along each track in Championship mode. Three of them are Point Crates, which are mostly found off track in shortcuts. The points are used to earn Continues during each race, with between 50 and 70 required to get the Continue (dependent on difficulty). Finding all point crates, which add up to 100 in total, gives players a new Arena In Beetle Battle Mode.\n\nUpon smashing through Nitro crates, the player is given a temporary boost of speed. These crates are usually found on hidden paths and beside the main roads.\n\nThe fourth crate is a Cheat Crate, hidden on each stage. Smashing one, the player would hear, \"Groovy!\". Smashing a Cheat crate the first time unlocks the Cheat Menu, which offers cheat codes in both Two-Player Racing and Beetle Battle. The Cheat menu has an Easter egg in which all the developers of the game have their faces scattered on the background of the menu.\n\nThe soundtrack is groovy breakbeat, with loud drums, organs, and guitars. The music was composed by Phil Western, Scott Blackwood, and Brenden Tennant.\n\n\"Beetle Adventure Racing\" \"universal acclaim\" according to the review aggregation website Metacritic. In Japan, where the game was ported and published by Square EA on November 26, 1999, \"Famitsu\" gave it a score of 28 out of 40.\n\n\"Next Generation\" rated it four stars out of five and stated that \"\"Beetle Adventure Racing\" not only emerges as one of the best, but its level design will also serve as a watermark that other franchises like \"Top Gear\" and even EA's own \"Need for Speed\" will have to live up to.\"\n\nVictor Lucas of \"The Electric Playground\" wrote, \"Although the repetitiveness that comes from having only one style of vehicle to race with is a bit of a drag, I have to say that the modelling of the bugs has been well handled. [...] The scenery around the tracks is absolutely stunning. All of the environments in Beetle Adventure Racing feel like they're alive.\" Lucas noted some graphical errors and felt that the game should have utilized the system's Expansion Pak for higher resolution, but wrote, \"Still, all of the tracks are long, intense and littered with discovery. I couldn't bring myself to complain too loudly. The music and sound effects of Beetle Adventure Racing are so perfectly suited to the gameplay it's almost as if the audio was built first and the gameplay was designed around it.\" Lucas concluded that, \"Beetle Adventure Racing is the first truly addictive Nintendo 64 game of 1999.\"\n\nPeer Schneider of IGN heavily praised the game's graphics, sound effects, detailed racing tracks, vehicle handling, and multiplayer mode, but wrote that \"one of the game's strongest salespoints is also its Achilles' Heel. Make no mistake about it -- the Beetles are cool and deliver all the speed and handling you'd want, but what if EA had gone for a multi-car-license as with Need for Speed? We can only imagine how cool it would have been to compete for a Lotus or a Ferrari instead of another VW Bug. At the very least, EA could have included the classic Beetle model or a few other VW cars. The relatively limited number of tracks and cars is actually our only serious complaint.\" Schneider also wrote, \"Unfortunately, the music is limited to generic 'drum and bass' tracks. It's not that it's bad, it just doesn't fit most of the tracks and there is hardly any bass to be heard...\" Schneider concluded, \"Aside from Wave Race, this is definitely the best racer on N64 yet. [...] Beetle Adventure Racing arrives as a breath of fresh air in a genre that hasn't moved forward in years.\"\n\nShawn Sackenheim of AllGame praised the game's lengthy racetracks, its multiplayer mode, its \"superb\" use of various shortcuts, and wrote, \"Visually, the game is exceptional with tons of personality in the car models, tracks, and overall presentation. [...] Soaking in all the graphic detail is something your eyes will thank you for--a breathtaking look at the Nintendo 64's true power! [...] There's just so much to cover in this game that it's hard to condense it to even a lengthy review without leaving so much out! [...] Some of the brightest and most vibrant graphics on the system! Nice bouncy tunes, but they repeat after only a few minutes. Great effects and minimal voice samples round out the package.\" GameSpot claimed the game is a \"great deal of fun\".\n\nA \"Beetle Adventure Racing II\" was in development, but has never been released.\n\n"}
{"id": "2165426", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165426", "title": "Alexis Amore", "text": "Alexis Amore\n\nAlexis Amore (born Fabiola Melgar García; 29 December 1978) is a Peruvian pornographic actress and feature dancer.\n\nAmore was born in Lima, Peru. Her first language is Spanish. At age 9, she moved to the United States. She was raised in Redondo Beach, California and attended high school in Hermosa Beach. She once worked as a nurse at a Catholic hospital in California .\n\nAmore worked as a model and host for Playboy TV shortly before debuting in porn. She was discovered on an episode of \"Night Calls\". She entered the adult film industry in 1999 and did her first scene for \"The Watcher 6\" from Vivid Entertainment. In 2001, she took a one-year hiatus from performing, during which she continued feature dancing, and returned in the summer of 2002.\n\nIn March 2003, Amore became a contract performer for Jill Kelly Productions. Shortly after her contract with JKP ended, she signed a performing and directing contract with Anabolic Video in June 2004. Once her deal with Anabolic Video ended, she became an exclusive contract performer and spokesperson for Video Team in September 2005. She made her debut for the company in the film \"All About Alexis\". In September 2006, she decided not to renew her contract with Video Team.\n\nIn June 2004, Frecuencia Latina filmed a documentary on her for the show \"Reporte Semanal\". In March 2006, Amore appeared on the Spanish language television shows \"No te Duermas\" and \"El Poder\" in Puerto Rico. Amore was featured on the cover of the September 2006 issue of \"Lowrider\". In January 2008, Amore announced that she would resume performing in boy/girl sex scenes after two years of only working with other women.\n\nOn October 22, 2014, she launched a show titled \"That’s Amore\" on Vivid Radio. On December 7, 2004, Amore debuted as a columnist on \"AVN Insider\" with a column titled \"Simply Alexis\". She had previously written a sex advice column for the mainstream Peruvian magazine \"Oye\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2165430", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165430", "title": "Davy Crockett, King of the Wild Frontier", "text": "Davy Crockett, King of the Wild Frontier\n\nDavy Crockett, King of the Wild Frontier is a 1955 adventure film produced by Walt Disney Productions. It is an edited compilation of the first three episodes of the \"Davy Crockett\" television miniseries, \"Davy Crockett Indian Fighter\", \"Davy Crockett Goes to Congress\", and \"Davy Crockett at the Alamo\", starring Fess Parker as Davy Crockett. \n\nTwo Tennessee wilderness settlers, Davy Crockett and his best friend George Russell (son of Captain William Russell and Agness H. Mccollough), volunteer to fight with General Andrew Jackson and Major Tobias Norton in the Creek War (1813-1814). They return home after a successful battle to make sure their families have enough provisions for the winter, rejoining a short time later to find the Americans at a stalemate against the Creeks, with Jackson having gone to New Orleans. Against Norton's orders, Crockett and Russell scout for Creek positions, and Russell is captured.\n\nCrockett tracks the Creeks to their camp, where he challenges the remaining Creek chief, Red Stick, to a tomahawk duel for Russell's life. Crockett wins, but agrees to spare Red Stick's life in exchange for his signing the American peace treaty.\n\nCrockett and Russell head west to scout virgin territory being opened for settlement, planning to send for Davy's family once a cabin has been built. They acquire a claim after beating Bigfoot Mason in a shooting contest. They learn that Mason is running Native Americans off their land in order to resell it, and befriend a family of Cherokee refugees Mason has victimized. Crockett offers to become the magistrate for the area. Crockett defeats Mason in hand-to-hand combat before arresting him and his surviving accomplice (the other one having been shot dead when he tried to shoot Crockett).\n\nCrockett is convinced to run for the state legislature against Amos Thorpe, a corrupt politician in league with men trying to claim Cherokee lands, who is running unopposed. He then receives a letter from his sister-in-law telling him that his wife has died of a fever. Crockett wins the election handily and becomes a popular member of the Tennessee General Assembly. He reunites with Norton and Andrew Jackson, who is running for President of the United States and convinces him to run for the United States House of Representatives.\n\nAfter he enters Congress, Norton, trying to pass a bill to usurp Native American treaty lands, has Crockett embark on a speaking tour across the eastern United States to distract him, but Russel learns of the bill and brings Crockett back to Washington to argue against it. Crockett tears the bill in half before leaving, ending his political career.\n\nCrockett decides to join the Battle of the Alamo (1836), joined by a George Russell. While traveling to San Antonio, they are joined by Thimblerig, a riverboat gambler, and Busted Luck, a Comanche tribesman. Reaching the Alamo, they join its defense, though Colonel James Bowie confides that their supplies are dangerously low. Russell manages to slip through the enemy lines to try to bring back help, only to return empty-handed. The Texan garrison withstands several attacks from Mexican troops before being overcome. George Russell, Thimblerig, Busted Luck, David Arvedon, Travis, and a bedridden Colonel Bowie are all killed, leaving Crockett the sole defender standing. Crockett kills several Mexicans, though the surrounding Mexican army will inevitably kill him as well.\n\nMost footage was shot in Tennessee and Wildwood Regional Park in Thousand Oaks, California.\n\nThe three segments comprising the film, which originally aired on \"Walt Disney's Disneyland\", were popular enough for Walt Disney to release them theatrically. The film remains Disney's most successful television film project, inspiring two prequel episodes for the television series which were later released in theaters as \"Davy Crockett and the River Pirates\".\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2165431", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165431", "title": "Peter Cornelius", "text": "Peter Cornelius\n\nCarl August Peter Cornelius (24 December 1824 – 26 October 1874) was a German composer, writer about music, poet and translator.\n\nHe was born in Mainz to Carl Joseph Gerhard (1793–1843) and Friederike (1789–1867) Cornelius, actors in Mainz and Wiesbaden. From an early age he played the violin and composed, eventually studying with Tekla Griebel-Wandall and composition with Heinrich Esser in 1841. He lived with his painter uncle Peter von Cornelius in Berlin from 1844 to 1852, and during this time he met prominent figures such as Alexander von Humboldt, the Brothers Grimm, Friedrich Rückert and Felix Mendelssohn.\n\nCornelius's first mature works (including the opera \"Der Barbier von Bagdad\") were composed during his brief stay in Weimar (1852–1858). His next place of residence was Vienna, where he lived for five years. It was in Vienna that Cornelius began a friendship with Richard Wagner. At the latter's behest, Cornelius moved to Munich in 1864, where he took a wife and fathered four children.\n\nIn Britain to this day, Cornelius's best-known work is \"The Three Kings\", a song for voice and piano in which the soloist sings \"Three Kings from Persian lands afar ...\", while from the piano is heard the chorale tune of Philipp Nicolai, Wie schön leuchtet der Morgenstern (\"How brightly shines the morning star\") underneath. An arrangement by Ivor Atkins of \"The Three Kings\" for solo voice and choir is included in the first volume of the popular David Willcocks and Reginald Jacques compilation \"Carols for Choirs\".\n\nDuring his last few years in Berlin, Cornelius wrote music criticism for several major Berlin journals and entered into friendships with Joseph von Eichendorff, Paul Heyse and Hans von Bülow. Despite his long-standing association with Wagner and Franz Liszt (the latter on occasion sought Cornelius's advice when it came to matters of orchestration), Cornelius's relations with the so-called \"New German School\" of composition were sometimes rocky. For instance, he did not attend the premiere of \"Tristan und Isolde\", using the premiere of his own opera \"Der Cid\" as an excuse.\n\nCornelius's third and final operatic project, \"Gunlöd\", based on the Norse eddas, was left incomplete at his death (from diabetes) in Mainz. He was buried in the city's Hauptfriedhof, and his grave can still be seen there.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2165432", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165432", "title": "Ulysse Nardin", "text": "Ulysse Nardin\n\nUlysse Nardin SA is a Swiss luxury watchmaking company founded in 1846 in Le Locle, Switzerland. \n\nThe company became known in the nautical world for manufacturing highly accurate marine chronometers and complicated timepieces used by over fifty of the world's navies from the end of the 19th century till 1950. According to the last official report of Neuchâtel Observatory in Switzerland, Ulysse Nardin had won numerous awards and honors for its marine chronometers from 1846 to 1975, including 4324 certificates, 2411 special prizes and 18 gold medals at International Exhibitions. \n\nThe company was later taken over and re-invigorated in 1983 by Rolf W. Schnyder who transformed it into a profitable business again. Since 2014, it has been a subsidiary of the French Kering Group. Ulysse Nardin has operated out of the same building headquartered in Le Locle, Switzerland since 1865.\n\nThe company today designs and manufactures luxury watches, dual time watches, marine chronometers, and sells its products through a network of distributors and several boutiques around the world.\n\nUlysse Nardin was born in 1823 in Le Locle, Switzerland. During the long and snowy winters, inhabitants used to produce timekeeping instruments to survive, as they couldn't live from farming alone. Ulysse Nardin first trained as an apprentice horologist under his father, Léonard-Frédéric Nardin, and perfected his skills under the tutelage of Frédéric-William Dubois and Louis JeanRichard-dit-Bressel, two master watchmakers who were experts in precision watches and whose fame extended beyond the mountains of Neuchatel, Switzerland. \n\nIn 1846, at the age of 23, Ulysse Nardin founded his own company in Le Locle where its headquarters are still located. Despite Ulysse Nardin growing up in the Jura mountains, he was fascinated by the sea and produced nautical timekeeping instruments. His company became one of the first to manufacture marine chronometers and high-precision seafaring instruments for commercial ships and navies throughout the world. His pocket and marine chronometers became reference products in civil, military and scientific realms.\n\nUlysse Nardin acquired a high-precision astronomical regulator, built by Jacques-Frederic Houriet in 1768, to rate his pocket chronometers. It is now in a museum in Le Locle. Minute repeaters, complicated watches and pocket chronometers carried the reputation of the company. \n\nIn 1876, Ulysse Nardin died at age 53, and his son Paul-David Nardin succeeded him as the head of the company which continued to expand. In 1889, Ulysse Nardin won a Gold Medal at the Paris Universal Exhibition, was awarded two Swiss patents in 1890, won First Prize at the Chicago Universal Exhibition in 1893, and many more. \n\nIn 1902, the company started to deliver marine chronometers to the US Navy. The brand regularly won Washington Naval Observatory competitions and became the official supplier for the US Navy's torpedo boats. The company has since provided timepieces to the navies of the United States, United Kingdom, Russia and Japan. Since the 1870s, over 50 navies and international shipping companies had been equipped with Ulysse Nardin marine chronometers. \n\nIn 1975, the Neuchâtel Observatory published the last official edition on the performance of chronometers from 1846 to 1975. \nAccording to this report, Ulysse Nardin was awarded 4,324 performance certificates for mechanical marine chronometers out of 4,504 submitted (95%).\n\nDue to the quartz crisis, Ulysse Nardin faced significant challenges in late 1970s and early 1980s. In 1983, the company was acquired by businessman Rolf Schnyder who, in conjunction with watchmakers such as Ludwig Oechslin, revived the brand. Rolf Schnyder served as its chief executive and transformed the company into a healthy business. Schnyder and Oechslin would aim to produce complication timepieces using modern materials and manufacturing techniques. Ulysse Nardin has introduced several innovations. In 1996, Ulysse Nardin released its first marine chronometer wristwatch \"Marine Chronometer 1846\", and first perpetual calendar \"Perpetual Ludwig\". These timepieces were designed by Ludwig Oechslin for the 150th anniversary of the brand.\n\nAfter Schnyder' sudden death in 2011, Chai Schnyder, his wife, took over the company till it was acquired by the Kering group in 2014.\n\nIn 2011, Ulysse Nardin acquired a Swiss enamaler workshop, Donzé Cadrans, that has provided the brand the opportunity to use enamel in its watch dials. In 2012, Ulysse Nardin launched its first automatic caliber, entirely conceived and manufactured in-house: UN-118. One year later, Ulysse Nardin released five new in-house calibers (UN-690, UN-310, UN-170, UN-150 and UN-205).\n\nIn 2014, Ulysse Nardin was acquired by the Kering luxury group, formerly known as PPR, which took a 100 % stake in the watch brand. In 2017, the company appointed Patrick Pruniaux, a previous executive of Apple, as its new CEO. In 2019, Ulysse Nardin has released three new calibers (UN-230, UN-371 and UN-631).\n\nThe company still occupies its original headquarters in Le Locle, one of the main watch production hubs in northwest Switzerland and has also three manufacturing plants in: La Chaux-de-Fonds (R&D and movement production site), Le Locle (Donzé Cadrans site, which belongs to Ulysse Nardin but also produces enamel dials for other companies) and Sion (Sigatec site, which produces micromecanics components in silicium). \n\nWhile marine wrist chronometers are still a specialty for the brand, it produces luxury complicated timepieces with high sophistication for men and women.\n\nThe company sells its products through a network of distributors and several boutiques around the globe, as well as through retailers in Europe, America, Middle East, Asia, Africa, Australia, China and Russia.\n\nUlysse Nardin is part of the exclusive circle of Swiss watchmaking, the Fondation de la Haute Horlogerie.\n\nThe company has an integrated production system. The majority of the work is done in-house, from conception, design, development and crafting through to production. The brand produces its own high-precision components, movements and calibers. Since the acquisition of Donzé Cadrans, Ulysse Nardin creates its own enamel dials. Pieces are heated to a high temperature (1500°F or 850°C) repeatedly, several times, as layers of color are added. This requires hours of work.\n\nEngineers, drafting technicians, technical and caliber designers develop new technologies, and design movements. They produce prototypes and tools for the workshops. \nProfile turners or specialist setters supervise the production of pieces required for the balance axis, screws, pins and the other minute parts. Decorators engrave plates and bridges with distinctive patterns. Experienced watchmakers then assemble the finished components, working on the movements of in-house calibers. Another team of watchmakers, specialized in highly complicated timepieces, works on the movement assemblies and casings of complex mechanisms (minute repeater, hourstriker, tourbillon...) and astronomical timepieces.\n\nQuality control experts perform checks on everything: aesthetics, watch functions, waterproofing, etc. Some watches have a chronometer movement certified for accuracy by the Contrôle Officiel Suisse des Chronomètres, the official Swiss testing agency. Ulysse Nardin has also its own quality certification, the Ulysse Nardin Certificate, with standards for quality higher than the COSC.\n\nUlysse Nardin introduced the \"Freak\" wristwatches in 2001. The first timepiece of this collection was the \"Laboratory on the wrist\" Freak watch. The model contains a revolutionary 7-day carrousel-tourbillon, and has no (true) dial, crown or hands. The movement contains silicon escapement components, and would rotate on itself to indicate time. The watch model was named \"Watch of the Year\" in innovation category in 2002. This use of silicon parts in a mechanical movement was an industry first.\nIn 2005, the brand launched the \"Freak Diamond Heart\" watch, featuring a patented escapement made from synthetic diamonds. \nIn 2007, the company presented a new material, Diamonsil, which combines silicium and synthetic diamonds. It eliminates friction and removes the need for lubrication of the escapement. The brand also launched the \"Freak Diamonsil\" watch, using this nanotechnology for the escapement. The same year, the brand released \"Innovision 1\" watch, featuring 10 innovations.\n\nIn 2017, the brand presented ten innovations, gathered within a new Freak watch, named \"Innovision 2\". One year later, the company launched the \"Freak Vision\" with three patents out of \"Innovision 2\" : \"Grinder\" winding system, constant power escapement and balance wheel in silicium with micro palets.\n\nThe current \"Freak\" model includes two series: \"Freak Out\" and \"Freak Vision (\"introduced in 2017\").\"\n\nThe first major advancement of the company after quartz crisis was the launch of \"Trilogy of Time\". This collection incorporated three different astronomical pieces starting in 1985 with the release of the \"Astrolabium Galileo Galilei\", named after Italian astronomer Galileo Galilei. The Astrolabium displays local and solar time, the orbits and eclipses of the sun and the moon and the positions of several major stars. It was named by the Guinness Book of Records in 1989 as the world's most-functional watch (with 21 distinct functions). \n\nDr. Oechslin then followed the \"Astrolabium\" up with two other astronomical watches: in 1988 the \"Planetarium Copernicus\" (named after the stargazing theaters called planetariums and of astronomer Copernicus) and in 1992 the \"Tellurium Johannes Kepler\" (named after the Latin 'Tellus' meaning Earth, a Tellurian and astronomer Johannes Kepler). The Cloisonné dial of the Tellurium takes fifty-four processes, twelve baking operations and more than fifty hours of work by a skilled craftsman to transform a draft sketch on a small metal disc into a unique work of art - each and every Tellurium is unique.\n\n\n\n\nEvery two years, the brand participates in Only Watch, a charity auction operated under the patronage of Prince Albert II, where watchmaking companies create timepieces to raise funds for research on neuromuscular diseases. In 2015, for the sixth edition of the Only Watch Charity Auction, the brand released the ”Only Watch Stranger” watch, equipped with a music box. On the hour, the watch plays Queen’s “We are the Champions” thanks to the copyright granted to Ulysse Nardin for its participation to the charity cause association. First introduced in 2013, the Stranger was named after Frank Sinatra’s 1966 song “Strangers in the Night” that the timepiece reproduced through a musical box mechanism.\n\nSince 2017, Ulysse Nardin has been the official sponsor of Sweden's Artemis Racing team at the America's Cup race. The brand is also the official sponsor of Monaco Yacht Show and the Miami Yacht Show.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2165435", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165435", "title": "Gene Leedy", "text": "Gene Leedy\n\nGene Leedy (February 6, 1928 – November 24, 2018) was an architect based in Winter Haven, Florida. Leedy was one of the pioneers of the modern movement in Florida and later one of the founders of the Sarasota School of Architecture, whose members also included Paul Rudolph, Victor Lundy and others. After beginning his career in Sarasota, Leedy moved his practice to Winter Haven, Florida in 1954. Leedy is most well known for his bold use of precast concrete, especially long-span \"double-tee\" structural elements.\n\nGene Leedy was born to Cecil Hudgins Leedy and Ethyl Ferguson Leedy on February 6, 1928 in Isaban, West Virginia. Cecil Leedy was a supervisor for a coal mining company and Ethyl taught school in a one-room schoolhouse. The family eventually moved to Gainesville, Florida where Cecil Leedy opened a small restaurant. Gene Leedy attended the University of Florida where he studied architecture. Leedy married Kathryn \"Bebe\" Hoge, of Tampa, Florida on July 20, 1950 in Arlington, Virginia. The couple resided in Sarasota, Florida and later moved to Winter Haven, Florida in 1954 when Gene Leedy opened his own architectural office there. Their son, Robert Hoge Leedy, was born in Winter Haven on October 17, 1956. The couple divorced in 1958. Gene Leedy later married Marjorie Frances Ingram on March 6, 1960. The couple, along with a daughter from Marjorie's previous marriage, Helen Isabel King (born August 27, 1954), resided in Winter Haven. A daughter, Marjorie \"Saffie\" Ingram Leedy, was born October 25, 1962 and later a son, Ingram Leedy, was born November 1, 1969. Leedy's wife, Marjorie, died on Christmas Day 2010 in Winter Haven.\n\nLeedy was selected as one of \"Architectural Record\"'s successful young architects in 1965 with a published portfolio of his work. In 1988, he was awarded the lifetime design achievement award from the Florida Association of Architects. He was installed into the College of Fellows of the American Institute of Architects in 1992. He received the outstanding alumni award from the College of Architecture of the University of Florida in 1993. He has been extensively published in the U.S. and Europe and has received more than 50 architectural awards both nationally and statewide for his work.\n\nHe designed projects throughout the U.S. including Hawaii and a large housing project for the government of Malaysia and was a design consultant for Alfred A. Yee and Associates, Architects and Engineers, Honolulu, Hawaii for more than 25 years. Notable employees of Leedy include architects Lawrence Scarpa and Max Strang.\n\nLifetime Design Achievement Award - Florida Chapter of the American Institute of Architects - 1988\nOutstanding Alumni Award - University of Florida College of Architecture - 1993\nFellows of the AIA - 1992\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2165436", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165436", "title": "Joseph von Radowitz", "text": "Joseph von Radowitz\n\nJoseph Maria Ernst Christian Wilhelm von Radowitz (6 February 1797 – 25 December 1853) was a conservative Prussian statesman and general famous for his proposal to unify Germany under Prussian leadership by means of a negotiated agreement among the reigning German princes.\n\nRadowitz was born to Roman Catholic nobility in Blankenburg am Harz, in Brunswick-Wolfenbüttel. His family being of Serb-Hungarian origin. He received a military education in France and fought in Napoleon's army. \nAs a young lieutenant in the Westphalian artillery, Radowitz was wounded and taken prisoner at the battle of Leipzig (1813), subsequently entered the Hanoverian service, and in 1823 that of Prussia. \nHis promotion was rapid, and in 1830 he became chief of the general staff of the artillery.\n\nIn 1836, Radowitz went as Prussian military plenipotentiary to the federal diet at Frankfurt, and in 1842 was appointed envoy to the courts of Karlsruhe, Darmstadt and Nassau. He had early become an intimate friend of the crown prince (afterwards King Frederick William IV), and the Prussian constitution of February 1847 was an attempt to realize the ideas put forward by him in his \"Gespräche aus den Gegenwart der Staat und Kirche\", published under the pseudonym \"Waldheim\" in 1846.\n\nIn November 1847 and March 1848 Radowitz was sent by Frederick William to Vienna to attempt to arrange common action for the reconstruction of the German Confederation. In the Frankfurt Parliament he was leader of the conservative Right; and, after its break-up, he was zealous in promoting the Unionist policy of Prussia, which he defended both in the Prussian diet and in the Erfurt parliament.\n\nHe was practically responsible for the foreign policy of Prussia from May 1848 onwards, and on 27 September 1851 he was appointed minister of foreign affairs. He resigned, however, on 2 November, owing to the king's refusal to settle the difficulties with the Austrian Empire by an appeal to arms.\n\nIn August 1852, he was appointed director of military education, but the rest of his life was devoted mainly to literary pursuits. Radowitz published, in addition to several political treatises, \"Ikonographie der Heiligen, im Beitrag zur Kunstgeschichte\" (Berlin, 1834) and \"Devisen und Mottos des spätern Mittelalters\" (ii., 1850). His \"Gesammelte Schriften\" were published in 5 vols. at Berlin, 1852-53.\n\nRadowitz died on 25 December 1853 in Berlin.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2165437", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165437", "title": "KAPP (TV)", "text": "KAPP (TV)\n\nKAPP, virtual channel 35 (UHF digital channel 14), is an ABC-affiliated television station licensed to Yakima, Washington, United States. The station is owned by Morgan Murphy Media. KAPP's studios are located on North 4th Street in downtown Yakima, and its transmitter is located on Ahtanum Ridge. \n\nKVEW (channel 42) in Kennewick operates as a semi-satellite of KAPP, serving the Tri-Cities area; this station maintains its own studios on North Edison Street in Kennewick. As a KAPP semi-satellite, it simulcasts all network and syndicated programming as provided through its parent, and the two stations share a website. However, KVEW airs separate commercial inserts and legal identifications. Local newscasts are simulcast on both stations. KAPP serves the western half of the Yakima/Tri-Cities market while KVEW serves the eastern portion. The two stations are counted as a single unit for ratings purposes. Master control and some internal operations are based at the studios of sister station and fellow ABC affiliate KXLY-TV on West Boone Avenue in Spokane.\n\nFor reasons unexplained, only one of the two stations is carried on each satellite system, with KAPP on DirecTV, while Dish Network features KVEW. Like most markets, its subchannel signals are uncarried.\n\nBefore KAPP signed on, CBS affiliate KIMA-TV (channel 29) had carried ABC as a secondary affiliation until KNDO (channel 23) signed on in 1959. KNDO became the area's primary ABC affiliate until 1965, when it switched its primary affiliation to NBC. Both KNDO and KIMA-TV shared ABC's programming from that point until KAPP signed on the air on September 21, 1970 and all ABC programming moved to KAPP. The most notable ABC program shown on the station's first day was the first-ever \"Monday Night Football\" game between the Cleveland Browns and New York Jets.\n\nThe station began airing Spokane's MeTV affiliate KXMN-LD on a digital subchannel in September 2006. KAPP was one of the remaining stations to sign-off every night, but that practice ended in 2012 when \"World News Now\" was added to the programming lineup.\n\nOn December 22, 2008, KAPP discontinued its 6 p.m. and weekend newscasts. The 11 p.m. newscast was reduced to a five-minute broadcast before \"Nightline\", and post-January 2013, \"Jimmy Kimmel Live!\" In addition to this move, 17 employees from KVEW and KAPP were laid off and KAPP's studio building was listed for sale. \n\nWhile weather came from KXLY for several years, local weather reports have returned as of 2016, with meteorologist Jason Valentine at 5 and 6:30, and Kristen Walls during their \"Good Morning Northwest\" newscast. With the cancellation of \"The Insider\" and \"Extra\" moving from 6 p.m. to 7:30 on September 11, 2017, KAPP began airing local news at 6:00, for the first time in almost a decade.\n\nThe station's digital signal is multiplexed:\nKAPP has been digital-only since February 17, 2009.\n\nKAPP is rebroadcast on K20JL-D Channel 20, a low-powered digital translator in Ellensburg, Washington, which is owned and operated by the Kittitas County TV Improvement District.\n\n"}
{"id": "2165438", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165438", "title": "Liana Fiol Matta", "text": "Liana Fiol Matta\n\nLiana Fiol Matta (born 1946) is a Puerto Rican jurist and formerly the 16th chief justice of the Supreme Court of Puerto Rico. Fiol was born in Rio Piedras, Puerto Rico and is the second woman in Puerto Rican history to serve in the highest court of the island as well as being the second woman to hold the post of chief justice.\n\nFiol received her law degree from the University of Puerto Rico, magna cum laude, and later her master's and doctorate degree from Columbia University. She was a law professor in Puerto Rico during the 1980s until she was appointed Judge of the Court of Appeals of Puerto Rico by Governor Rafael Hernández Colón. She held that seat until 2003, when Governor Sila Calderón appointed her to associated justice for the Puerto Rico Supreme Court. She was confirmed by the Senate and began her duties on February, 2004. At present besides being an Associate Justice of the Puerto Rico Supreme Court, she is a tenured professor at the University of Puerto Rico School of Law. On April 11, 2014, Fiol Matta became the 16th chief justice of the Supreme Court of Puerto Rico, after being nominated by Governor Alejandro García Padilla, thus succeeding Federico Hernández Denton as court chief justice. Served as chief justice until her retirement on February 1, 2016.\n\nJustice Fiol Matta was perceived as the leading liberal voice in the Puerto Rican high court.\n\n"}
{"id": "2165439", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165439", "title": "Benjamin Constant (disambiguation)", "text": "Benjamin Constant (disambiguation)\n\nBenjamin Constant may be:\n"}
{"id": "2165440", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165440", "title": "Happy Madison Productions", "text": "Happy Madison Productions\n\nHappy Madison Productions is an American film and television production company founded in 1999 by Adam Sandler which is best known for its comedy films. Happy Madison takes its name from the films \"Happy Gilmore\" and \"Billy Madison\", two box office successes starring Sandler himself, both produced by Robert Simonds, written by Sandler and Tim Herlihy, and distributed Universal Pictures. The elderly man depicted in the production logo is Sandler's late father, Stanley (who had died in 2003), who also says the accompanying audio, \"Terrific.\"\n\nIn addition to various Sandler-produced films, the company has also released films produced by others, such as Steven Brill (\"Little Nicky\", \"Mr. Deeds\"), Dennis Dugan (\"The Benchwarmers\", \"I Now Pronounce You Chuck and Larry\", \"You Don't Mess with the Zohan\", \"Grown Ups\", \"Grown Ups 2\"), Frank Coraci (\"Click\", \"Zookeeper\", \"Blended\"), Fred Wolf (\"Strange Wilderness\", \"The House Bunny\"), Tom Brady (\"The Animal\", \"The Hot Chick\", \"\"), Peter Segal (\"Anger Management\", \"50 First Dates\", \"The Longest Yard\"), Nicholaus Goossen (\"A Day with the Meatball\", \"Grandma's Boy\", \"The Shortcut\"), and Tom McCarthy (\"The Cobbler\").\n\nThe 1998 films \"The Waterboy\" and \"The Wedding Singer\" helped jump start Sandler's movie career and production company. He produced \"The Waterboy\" and co-wrote the script with Tim Herlihy. The film was extremely profitable, earning over $160 million in the United States alone and made Sandler a successful actor with \"The Waterboy\" becoming his second $100 million film in a year, along with \"The Wedding Singer\".\n\nThe company's production office is located in the Judy Garland Building on the Sony Pictures Studios lot in Culver City while its corporate and parent company offices (Happy Madison, Inc.) are located in Manchester, New Hampshire run by Adam's brother Scott.\n\nHappy Madison's films have, for the most part, received overwhelmingly negative reviews from critics. The production company has put out four films considered to be some of the worst ever made, including three that have received a 0% score from Rotten Tomatoes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2165443", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165443", "title": "Fire on the Mountain (album)", "text": "Fire on the Mountain (album)\n\nFire on the Mountain is the fifth studio album by Charlie Daniels and the first as The Charlie Daniels Band, released in 1974, appearing on the record label Kama Sutra Records, then later in 1976 by Epic Records. Most of the tracks on the album are studio recordings, while the last two songs are live performances, recorded at the War Memorial Auditorium, Nashville, Tennessee on October 4, 1974. \n\nEarly pressings of the album contained a bonus three song, seven inch, 45 RPM disc. Side one was \"Volunteer Jam Part (1)\" and side two was \"Volunteer Jam contd. Part (2)\" and \"Volunteer Jam contd. Part (3)\". The catalogue number of this disc is KSBS-EP-10.\n\nAll songs composed by the bandleader, Charlie Daniels, except where indicated:\n\nSide one\n\nSide two\n\nBand members:\n\n\nAdditional musicians:\n\nAdditional personnel:\n"}
{"id": "2165444", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165444", "title": "Estuary perch", "text": "Estuary perch\n\nThe estuary perch (\"Macquaria colonorum\") is a species of temperate perch endemic to south-eastern Australia, where it prefers brackish waters such as lower tidal reaches of coastal lakes, rivers, and streams.\n\nIt is very similar to and very closely related to its sister species, the Australian bass, \"Macquaria novemaculeata\", differing in having a slightly more \"scooped\" forehead and reaching a larger length of . Most individuals only reach around . The greatest recorded weight for a specimen of this species is , there is very little evidence for this, most people assume it was a typo i.e. it was 10 lb and not 10 kg.\n\nEstuary perch breed in winter at the same time as Australian bass, and are similarly sexually dimorphic, with females larger than males. Females reach sexual maturity at older ages and larger sizes than males. In Victoria, estuary perch/Australian bass hybrids are regularly recorded; most hybrids appear to be reproductively viable.\n\nSpawning occurs at the mouths of estuaries, rivers, and streams during winter and spring when water temperatures are 14-19 °C. In New South Wales, this occurs from July to August, while in the western regions of Victorian waters this happens from November to December.\n\nEggs are semibuoyant, nonadhesive, and in diameter. They hatch into larvae after 2–3 days.\n\nEstuary perch, as also many other native fish of southeast Australia, are very long-lived. Longevity is a survival strategy to ensure that most adults participate in at least one exceptional spawning and recruitment event, which are often linked to unusually wet La Niña years and may only occur every one or two decades. Maximum recorded age is 41 years.\n\nThe estuary perch is a popular recreational angling fish in the states of Victoria (particularly) and New South Wales. The fish was once caught commercially with seine nets during their winter spawning migrations. However, recently declining numbers mean the species is now protected from commercial fishing and bag limits occasionally apply on recreational angling.\n"}
{"id": "2165448", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165448", "title": "Allen Covert", "text": "Allen Covert\n\nAllen Stephen Covert (born October 13, 1964) is an American comedian, actor, writer, and producer. Best known for his starring role in the 2006 comedy film \"Grandma's Boy\", he is a frequent collaborator with actor and friend Adam Sandler with prominent roles in such films as \"Happy Gilmore\" (1996), \"The Wedding Singer\" (1998), \"Big Daddy\" (1999), \"Little Nicky\" (2000), \"Mr. Deeds\" (2002), \"Anger Management\" (2003), \"50 First Dates\" (2004), \"Strange Wilderness\" (2008), and \"Just Go with It\" (2013).\n\nCovert was born in West Palm Beach, Florida, the son of Elizabeth Ann (née Duhy) and Stephen Covert. He studied theater at New York University, where he was a classmate of Adam Sandler. Covert has served as a performer, writer, and/or producer for almost every film and comedy album Sandler has ever released. Covert currently resides in California.\n\nCovert's father was Jewish and his mother was a Southern Baptist. Covert co-founded a young children's publishing company geared towards basic American history. On July 18, 2019, he got a divorce from his wife.\n\nCovert's first film role was a cruise ship bartender in Sandler's 1989 film \"Going Overboard\" which also was Sandler's first cinematic appearance, he played Shecky, who aspired to be the cruise ships house comedian. Covert had minor parts in several subsequent Sandler films before his first prominent role in 1998's \"The Wedding Singer\" alongside Sandler and Drew Barrymore. Covert would continue to have fairly large roles in Sandler's next four films, including one in \"Little Nicky\" for which he gained 40 pounds. He eventually settled back into smaller walk-on and single-scene appearances in Sandler's films beginning with \"50 First Dates\" in 2004. However, in 2006 Covert starred in the comedy film \"Grandma's Boy\", his first (and only) lead role. Sandler didn't act in that film but served as an executive producer. Covert has also had small roles in four films that neither star or are produced by Sandler: \"Never Been Kissed\", \"Late Last Night, Heavyweights, and The Cable Guy.\"\n\nAlthough Covert's on-screen presence has been reduced in recent years, he has continued to serve an active role in Adam Sandler's movie production company, Happy Madison Productions, where Covert is an executive producer and sometimes co-writer on most of the company's films. In addition, Covert has contributed heavily to Sandler's many comedy albums, and frequently receives co-songwriting credits on the original songs that Sandler performs in many of his films.\n\nCovert also appeared as himself, along with Adam Sandler, in an episode of the television series \"Undeclared\". The show's creator, Judd Apatow, is another friend and former college classmate of Covert and Sandler.\n\nCovert is also a cofounder of Cherry Tree Books, a publisher of eBooks for children.\n\nAs actor\n\nAs writer\n\nAs producer\n\n"}
{"id": "2165450", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165450", "title": "Jay Kenneth Johnson", "text": "Jay Kenneth Johnson\n\nJay Kenneth Johnson (born February 24, 1977) is an American actor from Springfield, Missouri. He began his career in 1999 when he was cast as Philip Kiriakis on the NBC soap opera \"Days of Our Lives\".\n\nJohnson was born to parents Janice and Ken Johnson on February 24, 1977, in Missouri. He graduated from Kickapoo High School in 1995. He attended the Missouri State University, where he majored in Business and theatre. He then moved to Los Angeles to pursue an acting career. He has two younger siblings, Jeff and Jenna.\n\nHe has had roles on \"The Young and the Restless\", \"Days of Our Lives\", and \"North Shore\" and won a role in the Aaron Spelling pilot \"\"Hotel\"\". In addition to his regular television roles, Johnson has had guest appearances on \"The OC\" and the show \"Miami 7\".\n\nIn 2005, Johnson was offered a role on the new ABC] sitcom \"Hot Properties\", a role he later turned down.. He guest-starred on \"\" and will be starring in his first feature film titled \"HACK!\". He went on to play \"JD\", a trapped soul who came back to life 50 years later, on \"Charmed\". In 2006, he was a guest star on \"\". In 2007, after a five-year absence, Johnson returned to \"Days of Our Lives\" as Philip Kiriakis. He has also had a recurring guest role on \"Scrubs\" as Dr. Matthews. In 2011, Johnson opted to exit \"Days of Our Lives\". In 2012, he starred in the Hallmark movie \"Undercover Bridesmaid\" as Chip.\n\nIn 2019, Johnson reprised the role of Philip in the digital-only \"Last Blast Reunion\" series. In 2020, it was revealed that he would again reprise the role on \"Days of Our Lives\".\n"}
{"id": "2165468", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165468", "title": "Samura ibn Jundab", "text": "Samura ibn Jundab\n\nSamura ibn Jundab al-Fazari (d. 60 AH/680 CE) was one of the Companions of the Prophet Muhammad and the lieutenant governor of Basra under Ziyad ibn Abihi, the supreme governor of Iraq and the eastern Umayyad Caliphate, in 670–673.\n\nAfter Abu Musa conquered Khuzistan, he appointed Samura over Suk al-Ahwaz.\nSamura had a son Sulayman. His descendant Marwan Ibn Jaʿfar b. Saʿd b. Sulayman b. Samura claimed to own Samura last testament (\"waṣiʿah\") to his sons:\n\nThis is associated with a tradition from Ibn Sirin, that this epistle held \"much religious knowledge\". Samura is also credited with many ahadith.\n"}
{"id": "2165469", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165469", "title": "KTRE", "text": "KTRE\n\nKTRE, virtual and VHF digital channel 9, is a dual ABC/Telemundo-affiliated television station licensed to Lufkin, Texas, United States and also serving Nacogdoches. The station is owned by Gray Television. KTRE's studios and transmitter are located on TV Road (near US 69) in the unincorporated community of Pollok.\n\nAlthough identifying as a separate station in its own right, KTRE is considered a semi-satellite of KLTV (channel 7) in Tyler. As such, it simulcasts all network and syndicated programming as provided through its parent station but airs separate commercial inserts, legal identifications, weeknight newscasts and Sunday morning religious programs, and has its own website. KTRE serves the southern half of the Tyler–Longview–Lufkin–Nacogdoches market while KLTV serves the northern portion. The two stations are counted as a single unit for ratings purposes. Although KTRE maintains its own facilities, master control and some internal operations are based at KLTV's studios on West Ferguson Street in downtown Tyler.\n\nOn cable, KTRE is available on Suddenlink, Consolidated Communications and on independent providers in the area. On satellite, the station is carried on Dish Network, but not on DirecTV, which instead carries KLTV in the area.\n\nThe station first signed on the air on August 31, 1955; it was founded by the owners of now-defunct radio station KTRE-AM (1420), and originally operated as a satellite of Houston NBC affiliate KPRC-TV. However, it occasionally deviated from the KPRC schedule to air programming from ABC and CBS. In 1964, the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) collapsed Lufkin and Nacogdoches into the Tyler–Longview market. Soon afterward, the Buford family, owners of KLTV, bought KTRE and converted it into a semi-satellite of that station.\n\nUntil 1984, the station had an unusual \"joint primary\" arrangement with all three networks, with a slight favor towards ABC programming. Both stations lost CBS programming when KLMG-TV (channel 51, now Fox affiliate KFXK-TV) signed on in September 1984, but retained a secondary affiliation with NBC until KETK-TV (channel 56) signed on in March 1987. KTRE and KLTV were sold to Civic Communications in 1989. Civic merged with Liberty Corporation in 2002, which in turn merged with Raycom Media in 2006.\n\nFor many years, the station operated at 26,000 watts from a tiny tower, which was short-spaced to prevent interference with CBS affiliate WAFB-TV in Baton Rouge, Louisiana and later PBS member station KETG-TV in Arkadelphia, Arkansas. In the early 1980s, KTRE installed a new antenna and transmitter, operating at an increased power of 131kW, but never reached full power because of the short-space interference it would cause to those other stations. Eventually, as noted in the \"Television Factbook\", KTRE was allow to increase visual power to 158kW visual and 31.6kW aural power (exactly half the maximum 316kW visual power allowed by the FCC). On another front, the new transmitter antenna was directional to minimize overlap with KLTV to comply with FCC duopoly rules, which until 2000, prohibited one company from owning stations in adjacent markets that had significant signal overlap (constituting them as an illegal duopoly, even though they were located in different television markets).\n\nOn June 25, 2018, Gray Television announced that it was merging with Raycom, under the Gray name. When it was approved by the FCC and the Justice Department, it made KLTV and KTRE sisters to adjacent market stations KXII in Sherman, KBTX in Bryan and KWTX in Waco in addition to the current Raycom sister stations, while separating it from KXXV. The sale was approved on December 20, and was completed on January 2, 2019.\n\nThe station's digital signal is multiplexed:\nKTRE carries Telemundo on digital subchannel 9.2; the subchannel is not carried on Suddenlink Communications.\n\nKTRE shut down its analog signal, over VHF channel 9, on June 12, 2009, the official date in which full-power television stations in the United States transitioned from analog to digital broadcasts under federal mandate. The station's digital signal relocated from its pre-transition VHF channel 11 to channel 9 for post-transition operations.\n\nSyndicated programs broadcast by KTRE include \"Live with Kelly and Ryan\", \"Jeopardy!\", \"The Ellen DeGeneres Show\", \"Wheel of Fortune\", and \"Texas Country Reporter\".\n\nKTRE presently broadcasts five hours of locally produced newscasts each week (with one hour each weekday). In other common news timeslots where the station does not produce its own locally based newscasts, KTRE simulcasts the weekday morning, midday, 4:00 p.m., 5:00 p.m. and weekend morning and evening newscasts from KLTV. In addition to its main studios, the station operates a bureau on North Street (US 59 Business) in Nacogdoches. The first news anchor at channel 9 was Murphy Martin, who later became a local television anchor in Dallas and eventually served as an anchor for ABC News.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2165482", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165482", "title": "Nikki DeLoach", "text": "Nikki DeLoach\n\nAshlee Nicole \"Nikki\" DeLoach (born September 9, 1979) is an American actress and singer.\n\nDeLoach was born in Waycross, Georgia. She is the eldest of three children of Terri, Pierce County School superintendent and David DeLoach, an owner of a wood products company. Her sister LeAnne is a Valdosta State University graduate in education and her brother Brett is a baseball player for the University of Georgia. They grew up on a farm. As a child, she was heavily involved in the pageant world, winning numerous state and national titles. DeLoach secured an agent for modeling at a young age and landed several jobs for print ad modeling. She and her mother spent one summer in New York City to pursue modeling jobs. DeLoach was a member of the Georgia 4-H Performing Arts group Clovers & Company from 1991 to 1994.\n\nDeloach joined the \"All-New Mickey Mouse Club\" in 1993. Fellow cast members included future actors Keri Russell and Ryan Gosling and future pop stars Britney Spears, Christina Aguilera, Justin Timberlake, and JC Chasez. For several years she dated Chasez who became a member of boy band *NSYNC with Timberlake. She was mentioned by her nickname Peaches in the liner notes of the group's first American album. When \"The Mickey Mouse Club\" was cancelled in 1994, DeLoach returned to her local high school for a short time before moving with her grandmother to Los Angeles to pursue an acting career. Her work included television appearances in Misery Loves Company and movie roles in \"Gunfighter's Moon\" and \"The Traveller\".\n\nIn 1998, she became a member of the girl group Innosense. The group was managed by Justin Timberlake's mother, Lynn Harless. Innosense was an opening act for both *NSYNC and Britney Spears, and it had lukewarm success in Europe but minimal impact in the US. The group had a cameo in the film \"Longshot\" before calling it quits in 2003.\n\nAfter Innosense's breakup, DeLoach focused on acting. Her film work includes the sequel of the Sandra Bullock thriller \"The Net\", called \"The Net 2.0\", and a role in the series \"Emerald Cove\", alongside some of her fellow Mouseketeers. On television, she starred in the series \"North Shore\". on Fox and \"Windfall\". She also has made guest appearances in \"Grounded for Life\", \"\", \"Cold Case\", and \"\". DeLoach played Lacey Hamilton, the mother of the main character Jenna Hamilton, on MTV's \"Awkward\".\n\nShe played in the French comedy film \"Hollywoo\" with Florence Foresti. She occasionally co-hosts on \"The Young Turks\" livestream.\n\nShe has starred in several films on the Hallmark Channel.\n\nDeLoach married Ryan Goodell, who was a member of the boy band Take 5, in September 2009. In April 2013, DeLoach announced that she was pregnant. Their son William Hudson Goodell was born on October 22, 2013. Their second son, Bennett Christopher Goodell, was born on September 20, 2017.\n\n"}
{"id": "2165484", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165484", "title": "Charlie foxtrot", "text": "Charlie foxtrot\n"}
{"id": "2165486", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165486", "title": "Rosser's theorem", "text": "Rosser's theorem\n\nIn number theory, Rosser's theorem was published by J. Barkley Rosser in 1939. Its statement follows.\n\nLet \"p\" be the \"n\"th prime number. Then for \"n\" ≥ 1\n\nThis result was subsequently improved upon to be:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2165489", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165489", "title": "Buchholz relay", "text": "Buchholz relay\n\nIn the field of electric power distribution and transmission, a Buchholz relay is a safety device mounted on some oil-filled power transformers and reactors, equipped with an external overhead oil reservoir called a \"conservator\". The Buchholz relay is used as a protective device sensitive to the effects of dielectric failure inside the equipment. A generic designation for this type of device is \"gas detector relay\". \n\nBuchholz relays have been applied on oil-filled power and distribution transformers at least since the 1940s. The relay is connected to the oil piping between the overhead conservator tank and the main oil tank of a transformer. The piping between the main tank and conservator is arranged so that any gas evolved in the main tank tends to flow upward toward the conservator and gas detector relay. \nDepending on the model, the relay has multiple methods to detect a failing transformer. On a slow accumulation of gas, due perhaps to slight overload, gas produced by decomposition of insulating oil accumulates in the top of the relay and forces the oil level down. A float switch in the relay is used to initiate an alarm signal. Depending on design, a second float may also serve to detect slow oil leaks.\n\nIf an electrical arc forms, gas accumulation is rapid, and oil flows rapidly into the conservator. This flow of oil operates a switch attached to a vane located in the path of the moving oil. This switch normally will operate a circuit breaker to isolate the apparatus before the fault causes additional damage. Buchholz relays have a test port to allow the accumulated gas to be withdrawn for testing. Flammable gas found in the relay indicates some internal fault such as overheating or arcing, whereas air found in the relay may only indicate low oil level or a leak. \n\nThrough a connected gas sampling device the control can also be made from the ground. Depending on the requirements, the Buchholz relay has a flange or threaded connection. The classic Buchholz relay has to comply with the requirements of the DIN EN 50216-2 standard. Depending on the requirements, it is equipped with up to four (2 per float) switches or change-over switches, which can either send a light signal or switch off the transformer.\n\nThe relay was first developed by Max Buchholz (1875–1956) in 1921.\n\n"}
{"id": "2165494", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165494", "title": "King's American Dispensatory", "text": "King's American Dispensatory\n\nKing's American Dispensatory is a book first published in 1854 that covers the uses of herbs used in American medical practice, especially by those involved in eclectic medicine, which was the botanical school of medicine in the 19th to 20th centuries. In 1880 John Uri Lloyd, an eclectic pharmacist of the late 19th and early 20th centuries, promised his friend, Professor King, to revise the pharmaceutical and chemical sections of the \"American Dispensatory\". Eighteen years later an entirely rewritten eighteenth edition (third revision) was published in 1898. It was co-authored by eclectic physician Harvey Wickes Felter\n\n\"Kings American Dispensatory\", 1905 edition on Archive.org\n"}
{"id": "2165495", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165495", "title": "Toilet circuit", "text": "Toilet circuit\n\nThe toilet circuit is the network of small music venues in the United Kingdom which rising indie, rock and metal bands often visit to gain support and promote themselves. The name may refer to the size and often the cleanliness of the venue, or a lack of dressing rooms leading to the band being required to change in the toilets.\n\nMost of Britain's large towns and cities are home to at least one toilet circuit venue, although a regular toilet-circuit tour is only around 20 dates long at the most, meaning not all of the said venues are present in all toilet-circuit tours. Some of the largest cities, however, such as London, Manchester, Glasgow and Nottingham, appear on almost every tour, and these cities accordingly have many venues which could be described as \"toilet venues\". The circuit is mentioned in the Muse song \"Muscle Museum\" – \"I have played in every toilet.\" Frank Turner also references it in the song \"I Still Believe\", as \"toilet circuit touring stops\".\n\nThe 21st century saw the closure of several well-known toilet circuit venues, with many more under threat. In London, for example, 40% of the city's live music venues were said to have closed in the decade to 2016. This trend increased after the passing of the Live Music Act 2012, which allowed any venue with under 200 capacity to hold live music without a licence, and has been cited as a major factor in the decline of paid-entry live music events.\n\nRock Sound TV has used the \"Toilet Circuit\" moniker to film a series of acoustic performances filmed in the grimiest locations at music venues across the UK, featuring bands such as The Blackout, Thrice, Futures, Lights, Vessels and Deaf Havana.\n\nLondon\n\n\nScotland\n\n\nWales\n\n\nNorth East\n\n\nNorth West\n\n\nOxfordshire\n\n\nSouth West\n\n\nSouth East\n\n\nYorkshire\n\n\nMidlands\n\n\nEast Anglia\n\n"}
{"id": "2165498", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165498", "title": "Leonberger", "text": "Leonberger\n\nThe Leonberger is a giant dog breed, whose name derives from the city of Leonberg in Baden-Württemberg, Germany. According to legend, the Leonberger was ostensibly bred as a \"symbolic dog\" that would mimic the lion in the town coat of arms. It is in the Working Group for dog shows such as Crufts, but not at the World Dog Show.\n\nThis breed occurs with a generous double coat; the Leonberger is a large, muscular, and elegant dog with balanced body type, medium temperament, and dramatic presence. The head is adorned with a striking black mask and projects the breed's distinct expression of intelligence, pride, and kindliness. Remaining true to their early roots as a capable family and working dog and search and rescue dog (particularly water), the surprisingly agile Leonberger is sound and coordinated, with both strength in bearing and elegance in movement. A sexually dimorphic breed, the Leonberger possesses either a strongly masculine or elegantly feminine form, making gender immediately discernible.\n\nHeight at withers:\n\n\nWeight:\n\n\nCapable of demanding work, the Leonberger is a dog of ample substance. Its frame is supported with well-muscled, medium to heavy bone in direct proportion to its size. A roomy chest is sufficiently broad and deep for the purpose of work. Seen in profile, the chest curves inward from the prosternum, tangenitally joins at the elbow to its underline at 50% of the withers' height and then continues slightly upward toward the stifle.\n\nThe head is well balanced in proportion to the size of the dog and is deeper than broad with the length of muzzle and the length of skull approximately equal. With close fitting eyelids, the eyes are set into the skull upon a slight oblique; the eyes are medium-sized, almond shaped, and colored dark brown. The ears are fleshy, moderately sized, and pendant shaped, with sufficient substance to hang close to the skull and drop the tip of the ears level with the inside corners of the mouth. The Leonberger's ears rise from halfway between the eye and the top of his skull to level with the top of his skull. Though level bites and slight anomalies not affecting the robustness of the lower jaw are common, the ideal Leonberger capably possesses a strong scissor bite with full dentition.\n\nBoth a necessity for work and a defining attribute of the breed, the Leonberger has a water-resistant double coat on his body that is complemented by the shorter, fine hair on his muzzle and limbs. The long, profuse, outer coat is durable, relatively straight, lies flat, and fits close. A mature, masculine Leonberger exhibits a pronounced mane. Similarly, his tail is very well furnished from the tip to the base where it blends harmoniously with the breech's furnishings. Climate permitting, his undercoat is soft and dense. Apart from a of the feet, the Leonberger is presented untrimmed.\n\nA variety of coat colors are acceptable, including all combinations of lion-yellow, red, red-brown, and sand. Nose leather, foot pads and lips should always be black. Faulty colors include brown with brown nose leather, black and tan, black, white or silver and eyes without any brown. A small patch of white on the chest or toes is permitted.\n\nFirst and foremost a family dog, the Leonberger's temperament is one of its most important and distinguishing characteristics. Well socialized and trained, the Leonberger is self-assured, insensitive to noise, submissive to family members, friendly toward children, well composed with passersby, and self-disciplined when obliging its family or property with protection. Robust, loyal, intelligent, playful, and kindly, they can thus be taken anywhere without difficulty and adjust easily to a variety of circumstances, including the introduction of other dogs. Proper control and early socialization and training are essential, as this is a giant breed.\n\nLeonbergers are strong, generally healthy dogs. Hip dysplasia, which devastates many large breeds, is largely controlled because of the effort of many breeders who actively screen their Leonbergers using X-rays evaluated by the Orthopedic Foundation for Animals and leave dysplastic specimens out of the gene pool, thereby reducing the risk of bone/joint problems. For over 20 years, breeders belonging to the Leonberger Club of America, which issued pedigrees for the Leonberger breed in America, adhered to many aspects of the German breeding program, whereby member kennels may only choose to breed dogs that were certified as three generation free of hip dysplasia. As a likely result, the incidence of hip dysplasia in the breed was reduced to almost 10% and the occurrence of OFA-rated \"Excellent\" hips increased by over 60% in just 20 years. Current incidence rates of hip dysplasia in Leonbergers are likely around 13%. After 2010, when the Leonberger Club of America joined the American Kennel Club, the formerly strict breeding rules are no longer mandatory for all Leonbergers.\n\nThough not common, Leonbergers do inherit and/or develop a number of diseases that range in their impact from mild to devastating. In addition to hip dysplasia, Leonbergers can inherit and/or develop heart problems, inherited Leonberger paralysis/polyneuropathy, osteosarcoma, hemangiosarcoma, osteochondrosis dissecans, allergies, digestive disorders, cataracts, entropion/ectropion eyelids, progressive retinal atrophy, perianal fistulas, and thyroid disorders. Though rumors persist of Leonbergers being more sensitive to anesthesia than other breeds of dog, they are largely untrue. Leonbergers, like other large breed dogs, require less dosage per pound of sedative than smaller breeds to yield the same effect. The Leonberger Health Foundation, a private nonprofit foundation whose sole mission is to support major researchers who are seeking to identify genetic markers for serious diseases which affect the breed, is currently focusing on osteosarcoma, hemangiosarcoma, and Leonberger polyneuropathy.\n\nLeonbergers in UK and USA/Canada surveys had a median lifespan around 7 years, which is about 4 years less than the average purebred dog, but typical of similarly sized breeds. About 20% of Leonbergers in the surveys lived to 10 years or more. The oldest dogs in both surveys died at about 13. In France, the breed has a median lifespan of 8.75 years.\n\nSerious diseases can affect the Leonberger—certain types of cancers are very common in the breed. Gastric dilatation volvulus, commonly called bloat, is another serious condition that affects many of the large- and giant-breed dogs, particularly those with deep chests. It causes the stomach to twist and can be fatal quite quickly. Adult Leonbergers should always be fed twice a day rather than one large meal to reduce the likelihood of bloat. Leonbergers are not alone in inheriting serious diseases, and according to the University of Sydney's LIDA taskforce, Leonbergers have relatively few health issues compared to other dog breeds.\n\nIn a 2004 UK Kennel Club survey, the most common causes of death were cancer (45%), cardiac disease (11%), and \"unknown\" (8.5%). In a 2000 USA/Canada Leonberger Club of America survey, the most common causes of death were cancer (37%), old age (12%), cardiac disease (9%), and \"sudden death\" (8%).\n\nStudies have indicated problems with inherited polyneuropathy in certain populations of Leonbergers and cataracts in dogs in the United Kingdom. A study of \"Leonberger polyneuropathy\" was published in 2014. Genetic testing is to be done through a protocol administered in North America by the University of Minnesota Veterinary Diagnostic Laboratory. or Institute of Genetics, Vetsuisse Faculty, University of Bern, Bern, Switzerland\n\nIn the 1830s, Heinrich Essig, a dog breeder and seller and mayor of the town of Leonberg near Stuttgart in Baden-Württemberg, Germany, claimed to have created the Leonberger by crossing a female Landseer Newfoundland with a \"barry\" male from the Great St. Bernard Hospice and Monastery (which would later create the Saint Bernard breed). Later, according to Essig, a Pyrenean Mountain Dog was added, resulting in very large dogs with the long, white coats that were the fashion for the time, and pleasant temperament. The first dogs registered as Leonbergers were born in 1846 and had many of the prized qualities of the breeds from which they were derived. The popular legend is that it was bred to resemble the coat-of-arms animal of Leonberg, the lion. The Leonberger dog became popular with several European royal households, including Napoleon II, Empress Elisabeth of Austria, the Prince of Wales, Otto Von Bismarck, Emperor Napoleon III, and Umberto I of Italy. Essig's claim of breeding the dog as described is disputed. Records from as early as 1585 may indicate the existence of Leonberger-type dogs; documents dating from 1601 held by the Metternich family describe similar dogs used to deter the theft of livestock. Either way, no doubt exists that Essig named and registered the breed first. A black-and-white engraving of the Leonberger was included in \"The Illustrated Book of the Dog\" by Vero Shaw (at p. 488) in 1881. At the time, Essig's Leonbergers were denounced as an indifferent knockoff of a St. Bernard—not a stable and recognized breed—and a product of a popular fad or fashion for large and strong dogs, fomented in part by Essig's prodigious marketing skills (he gave dogs to the rich and famous).\n\nThe modern look of the Leonberger, with darker coats and black masks, was developed during the latter part of the 20th century by reintroducing other breeds, such as the Newfoundland. This was necessary because breeding stocks of the Leonberger were seriously affected by the two world wars. During World War I, most Leonbergers were left to fend for themselves as breeders fled or were killed. Reportedly, only five Leonbergers survived World War I and were bred until World War II when, again, almost all Leonbergers were lost. During the two world wars, Leonbergers were used to pull the ammunition carts, a service to the breed's country that resulted in the Leonbergers' near-destruction. Karl Stadelmann and Otto Josenhans are credited as the breed's saviors, bringing them back from almost extinction. Leonbergers today can have their ancestry traced to the eight dogs that survived World War II.\n\nTraditionally, Leonbergers were kept as farm dogs and were much praised for their abilities in watch and draft work. They were frequently seen pulling carts around the villages of Bavaria and surrounding districts. Around the beginning of the 20th century, Leonbergers were imported by the government of Canada for use as water rescue/lifesaving dogs. The breed continues in that role today, along with the Newfoundland, Labrador Retriever, and Golden Retriever dogs; they are used at the Italian School of Canine Lifeguard. They have been used successfully as flock guard dogs.\n\nThe Leonberger received American Kennel Club recognition as a member of the Working Group on January 1, 2010, alongside the Icelandic Sheepdog and the Cane Corso. It was the 167th breed to be recognized by the AKC.\n\nThree Leonberger dogs (one was a female, and two males) played the main character Buck in \"\" (1997), a Canadian rendition of Jack London's \"The Call of the Wild\" which stars Rutger Hauer as John Thornton and is narrated by Richard Dreyfuss. The breed chosen in this movie was not the one identified as Buck in the novel.\n\nIn \"The Equalizer\", Robert McCall (Denzel Washington) visits his former CIA co-workers at their large Virginia home which has two Leonbergers.\n\nThe breed has been featured on stamps from many countries.\n\nThe Lifetime TV movie \"Grumpy Cat's Worst Christmas Ever\" features a Leonberger that becomes a victim of a kidnapping, co-starring with the famous Grumpy Cat.\n\nIn \"The Secret of Moonacre\" Wrolf is played by a Leonberger.\n\nIn Rammstein's \"Deutschland\" music video, a Leonberger is featured as birth product of the Germania character.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2165500", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165500", "title": "Division of Mackellar", "text": "Division of Mackellar\n\nThe Division of Mackellar is an Australian electoral division in the state of New South Wales. \n\nThe division is named after Sir Charles Mackellar, a social reformer and surgeon who served in the Senate from October to November 1903, and his daughter Dorothea Mackellar, a 20th-century Australian poet. The division was proclaimed at the redistribution of 11 May 1949, and was first contested at the 1949 federal election.\n\nLike most seats in northern Sydney, Mackellar is a safe seat for the Liberal Party of Australia. It was first held by Bill Wentworth, the first Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, and the great-grandson of politician and explorer William Wentworth, one of the first three Europeans to cross the Blue Mountains. The seat has been in Liberal hands for all but two months of its existence; Wentworth briefly sat as an independent for the last two months of his term. The Liberals' hold on the seat has been only remotely threatened once, when Wentworth only tallied 55.2 percent of the two-party vote in 1972. That election is also the only time to date that the Liberals have come up short of winning enough votes on the first count to win the seat outright.\n\nMost of this area has been represented by centre-right MPs since Federation; it was part of North Sydney before 1922, and then part of Warringah from 1922 to 1949.\n\nFormer Speaker of the House of Representatives Bronwyn Bishop held the seat from 1994 until 2016, when she lost a preselection contest for the Liberal Party candidacy following an expenses scandal. The Liberal Party preselected Jason Falinski to contest the seat.\n\nThe division is located in the Northern Beaches region of Sydney, adjacent to the Tasman Sea, south of Broken Bay and the Hawkesbury River. The division includes the suburbs of Akuna Bay, Avalon Beach, Bayview, Belrose, Bilgola Beach, Bilgola Plateau, Careel Bay, Church Point, Clareville, Coasters Retreat, Collaroy, Collaroy Plateau, Cottage Point, Cromer, Davidson, Duffys Forest, Elanora Heights, Elvina Bay, Great Mackerel Beach, Ingleside, Lovett Bay, McCarrs Creek, Mona Vale, Morning Bay, Narrabeen, Newport, North Narrabeen, Oxford Falls, Palm Beach, Scotland Island, Terrey Hills, Towlers Bay, Warriewood, Whale Beach, and Wheeler Heights; as well as parts of Beacon Hill, Dee Why, Forestville, Frenchs Forest, and Narraweena.\n\n"}
{"id": "2165514", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165514", "title": "KIMA-TV", "text": "KIMA-TV\n\nKIMA-TV, virtual channel 29 (UHF digital channel 33), is a dual CBS/CW+-affiliated television station licensed to Yakima, Washington, United States. Owned by the Sinclair Broadcast Group, it is a sister station to low-powered, Class A Univision affiliate KUNW-CD (channel 2). The two stations share studios on Terrace Heights Boulevard (east of I-82) in Yakima; KIMA-TV's transmitter is located on Ahtanum Ridge.\n\nKIMA operates two semi-satellites–KEPR-TV (channel 19) in Pasco (serving the Tri-Cities) and KLEW-TV (channel 3) in Lewiston, Idaho. They simulcast all network and syndicated programming as provided through KIMA, but air separate commercial inserts, legal identifications and early evening newscasts, and have their own websites. Master control and some internal operations for the four stations are based at KOMO Plaza (formerly Fisher Plaza) in Seattle. \n\nOn satellite, Dish Network and DirecTV carry both KIMA-TV and KEPR-TV.\n\nKIMA signed on July 19, 1953 as the 200th television station in the United States and the first in central Washington. The station was originally owned by Cascade Broadcasting Company along with KIMA radio (AM 1460, now KUTI). It carried programming from all four networks–CBS, NBC, ABC and DuMont–but has always been a primary CBS affiliate.\n\nIt lost DuMont when that network shut down in 1955, then lost ABC when KNDO signed on in 1959 as a primary ABC affiliate. When KNDO switched affiliations to NBC in 1965, the two stations shared ABC until 1970, when KAPP signed on and took over ABC, leaving KIMA to become a full-time CBS affiliate.\n\nJust before KIMA signed on, the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) collapsed all of central Washington–including the Tri-Cities–into one giant television market. It soon became apparent that channel 29 was not nearly strong enough to cover this vast and mountainous area by itself. With this in mind, in 1954 Cascade signed on KEPR-TV as the first satellite station in the United States. It was originally intended to be a full repeater of KIMA-TV, but due to popular demand it became more of a local station.\n\nAt one point, KIMA also had a satellite station in Ephrata, Washington. KBAS-TV signed on the air February 15, 1957 on channel 43; it moved to channel 16 in 1958. KBAS was owned by Basin TV Company, a subsidiary of Cascade Broadcasting, and this was reflected in its call letters. KBAS shut down on November 30, 1961.\n\nFilmways agreed to purchase Cascade Broadcasting for $3 million in 1968; the sale was approved the following year. Cascade's previous owners retained the company's radio stations, which by this point also included the construction permit for KIMA-FM (107.3 FM, now KFFM), under the name Yakima Valley Communications. Filmways sold KIMA-TV, KEPR-TV, and KLEW-TV to NWG Broadcasting for $1 million in 1972. Retlaw Enterprises acquired the NWG stations for $17 million in 1986; the stations were operated as part of the Retlaw Broadcasting division. Fisher Communications purchased the Retlaw owned stations in 1999.\n\nOn March 29, 2009, KIMA launched a digital subchannel affiliated with The CW to fill the void left by KCWK (channel 9) going dark at the end of May 2008 due to the Pappas Telecasting bankruptcy. The new channel took KCWK's former Channel 9 position on local cable systems and carries the CW Plus schedule.\n\nOn April 11, 2013, Fisher announced that it would sell its properties, including KIMA-TV, to the Sinclair Broadcast Group. The deal was completed on August 8, 2013.\n\nThe station's digital signal is multiplexed:\nCurrent syndicated programs on KIMA include \"Dr. Phil\", \"Judge Judy\", \"The Big Bang Theory\", and \"The Simpsons\", which has aired at 7:30 p.m. a majority of the time since it went into syndication in the fall of 1994.\n\nKIMA offers the only local Yakima-focused newscast with a fully operational newsroom in Yakima weekdays on \"KIMA Action News\" at 5 and 6 p.m. KIMA's morning, 10 p.m. (on CW), 11 p.m. and weekend newscasts are shared with KEPR. Branded as \"KIMA/KEPR Action News\", they cover both the Yakima Valley and the Columbia Basin. Weather segments for KIMA's evening newscasts are pre-taped at KEPR.\n\nKIMA-TV is rebroadcast on K50KK-D Channel 23 in Ellensburg, Washington, which is owned and operated by the Kittitas County TV Improvement District.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2165522", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165522", "title": "KSLA", "text": "KSLA\n\nKSLA, virtual channel 12 (UHF digital channel 17), is a CBS-affiliated television station licensed to Shreveport, Louisiana, United States and also serving Texarkana, Texas. The station is owned by Gray Television. KSLA's studios are located on Fairfield Avenue and Dashiel Street (southeast of I-20) in central Shreveport, and its transmitter is located near St. Johns Baptist Church Road (southeast of Mooringsport and Caddo Lake) in rural northern Caddo Parish.\n\nOn cable, the station is available on Comcast Xfinity channels 13 (standard definition) and 1012 (high definition) in Shreveport; Suddenlink channel 10 (SD and HD) in Bossier City; NewWave Communications channels 5 (SD) and 201 (HD) in Blanchard, Vivian, Springhill and Mansfield; and Cable One channel 12 (SD) and 1012 (HD) in Texarkana and Fouke, Arkansas. KSLA is also carried on some cable providers in the Tyler–Longview–Lufkin–Nacogdoches market (alongside local CBS affiliate KYTX) in East Texas, although certain programs are subject to blackout due to the Federal Communications Commission (FCC)'s network non-duplication and syndication exclusivity rules.\n\nThe VHF channel 12 allocation was contested between three groups that competed for approval by the FCC to be the holder of the construction permit to build and license to operate a new television station on what was originally the second commercial VHF allocation to be assigned to Shreveport. On June 27, 1952, one week before the FCC released a Report and Order reallocation memorandum that lifted a four-year moratorium on new television broadcast license applications, two Shreveport-based groups filed respective applications for the permit: Radio Station KRMD Inc. (then-parent of radio station KRMD [1340 AM] and principally owned by T. B. Lanford, who owned radio stations in Texas, Louisiana and Mississippi), and the Shreveport Television Co. (owned by movie theater operator Don George, Ben Beckham and William Carter Henderson, the latter being the son of KWKH founder William Kennon Henderson, Jr.). The Southland Television Co. – a group led by Lester Kamin (owner of Houston-based Kamin Advertising Agency), John H. Pace (general manager of Southland-owned radio station KCIJ [980 AM, now KOKA]), and Dallas-based attorneys Pat Coon and Billy B. Goldberg – became the third applicant for the license on July 10, 1952.\n\nOn August 24, Radio Station KRMD Inc., the Shreveport Television Co. and the Southland Television Co. submitted a joint application to the FCC to operate VHF channel 12 pending the outcome of the comparative hearings on their individual applications. The temporary corporation, Interim Television Corp. (owned by Don George, representing Shreveport Television; Justin R. Querbes Sr., representing Southland Television; and T. B. Langford, representing KRMD), held equal one-third interests in the group and would share in construction costs and operation of the proposed \"interim\" television station until the permanent holder of the license was determined, at which point the grantee would purchase the other shares from the two overruled applicants, with the permit becoming invalidated no longer than 10 days after the regular permit was issued to the winning applicant. The FCC granted the permit to the temporary corporation on September 18. The group subsequently requested and received approval to assign KSLA (in reference to its city of license, Shreveport, Louisiana) as the television station's call letters. (The \"-TV\" suffix was added to the call letters in 1979; it was removed shortly after the digital television transition in 2009, making KSLA the only Raycom-owned station to drop the suffix from its callsign.)\n\nThe station first signed on the air on January 1, 1954, as the second television station to sign on in the Shreveport–Texarkana market – following Texarkana, Texas-based primary CBS and secondary ABC and DuMont affiliate KCMC-TV (channel 6, now NBC affiliate KTAL-TV), which launched five months earlier on August 16, 1953 – and the first to be licensed to Shreveport. Channel 12 has been a CBS television affiliate since its debut, inheriting those rights through KWKH radio's longtime relationship with the CBS Radio Network; it also maintained a secondary affiliations with ABC, NBC and the DuMont Television Network. Channel 12 – which is one of two stations in the market to have never changed its primary network affiliation, along with Fox affiliate KMSS-TV (channel 33) – originally operated out of studio facilities housed inside the Washington Youree Hotel, located on Edwards and Travis Streets in downtown Shreveport. KSLA temporarily transmitted its signal from a broadcast tower located near the intersection of Lake and Market Streets in downtown Shreveport.\n\nOn June 8, 1954, FCC Hearing Examiner Fanney N. Litvin issued an initial decision looking to grant the Shreveport Television Company the construction permit application for channel 12, citing its lack of radio facilities and better television programming proposals, facilities and staffing commitments. The FCC Broadcast Bureau granted exclusive rights to the permit to Shreveport Television Company on May 19, 1955, formally denying KRMD and Southland Television's respective bids. Both competitors filed exception petitions to the FCC examiner's initial decision favoring Shreveport Television on the grounds Litvin cited in the 73-page order. The FCC reaffirmed its prior decision on November 17, 1955, denying the Southland petition for rehearing and reconsideration of the grant and formally dismissing the competing bids. On March 5, 1955, Elvis Presley made his television debut on KSLA on the local music program \"Louisiana Hayride\", which was produced from the Municipal Auditorium. That same year, D. L. Dykes, Jr., who launched a 30-year career as the pastor of the First Methodist Church at the Head of Texas Street in downtown Shreveport, began having his sermons televised on KSLA; over the years, other churches followed Dykes's lead.\n\nKSLA disaffiliated from NBC after KTBS-TV (channel 3) signed on as Shreveport's second television station on September 3, 1955. DuMont ceased operations in September 1955; KSLA remained a primary CBS affiliate with secondary ABC and DuMont affiliations until the latter network discontinued operations in August 1956, amid various issues that arose from DuMont's relations with Paramount Pictures that hamstrung it from expansion; that year, the station also added an additional affiliation with the NTA Film Network. KSLA activated its permanent transmission facility in November 1955; at , the tower helped to significantly increase the station's reach from 177,100 viewers to 1.089 million viewers throughout northwestern Louisiana, northeastern Texas and southwestern Arkansas.\n\nKSLA and KTBS-TV continued to share limited amounts of ABC programming until 1960, when Texarkana, Texas-licensed KTAL-TV (channel 6) assumed the local rights to the NBC affiliation after KTAL owner Palmer Newspapers received FCC permission to relocate that station's transmitter closer to Shreveport, effectively folding the Texarkana area into the Shreveport television market. As a consequence, KTBS-TV chose to become an exclusive ABC affiliate; this left KSLA affiliated with CBS and the NTA Film Network, the latter of which KSLA continued to provide select programs from until that network ceased operations in 1961. Another local program aired on KSLA during this time was \"Hallelujah Train\", a Sunday morning program many consider as a religious version of \"Soul Train\". In 1959, KSLA became the first television station in the Shreveport market to broadcast in color.\n\nIn January 1960, the Shreveport Television Company to KSLA-TV Inc.—a local group headed by the Journal Publishing Company (owned by Douglas F. Attaway, owner and publisher of the now-defunct \"Shreveport Journal\"), Eugenie B. George, Dolores George LaVigne and various additional stockholders that included Winston B. Linam (who remained KSLA's station manager)—for $3.396 million; the sale received FCC approval on May 25. Under Journal Publishing ownership, KSLA was referred to as \"The Journal Station\" in on-air and print promotions during the second half of the 1960s and the early 1970s. In January 1965, the Journal Publishing Company filed a petition asking to deny a construction permit application by Television Broadcasters Inc. to build a new -tall transmission tower for ABC affiliate KBMT (which also transmitted on channel 12) in Beaumont, Texas at a site west of Mauriceville. Journal Publishing charged that the new KBMT transmitter—which was proposed to be placed north of its existing transmitter location—would be short-spaced closer to the KSLA transmitter than permitted by standard mileage separation rules to prevent signal interference, and that the FCC's order granting the application had not afforded KSLA \"equivalent protection\" that Television Broadcasters stated that it would in the original application. On October 29, 1966, the FCC granted construction permits to KSLA and KBMT to install precise frequency control systems to limit signal interference between the two stations.\n\nFor one month, in May 1967, KSLA maintained a secondary affiliate of the United Network (also known as the Overmyer Network), a short-lived attempt to create a fourth national commercial television network; it was one of several stations nationwide to broadcast United/Overmyer's short-lived late night program, \"The Las Vegas Show\". In 1973, the station relocated its operations into its current studio facilities on Fairfield Avenue and Dashiel Street (near Schumpert Medical Center).\n\nAfter Attaway sold the \"Shreveport Journal\" to local businessman and philanthropist Charles T. Beaird, in February 1976, the Journal Publishing Company announced it would sell the station to KSLA-TV Inc. (a local consortium owned by Attaway, Delores La Vigne and Winston B. Linam) for $2.823 million; the transfer received FCC approval on May 27. During the early morning of October 8, 1977, the station's transmitter tower located east-southeast of Mooringsport collapsed. Speculation centered upon a failure in a guy wire cable attached to the tower at the level that swayed significantly in winds sustained at , with the rippling to be so great that it caused to the wire to snap and the tower broke at the aforementioned level and fell on the reinforced concrete transmitter building below, which was undamaged; however, no official cause was ever determined. The KSLA-TV signal was knocked off the air until it set up temporary transmitter facilities that afternoon from a nearby auxiliary tower, although the shorter tower resulted in the station's coverage radius being significantly reduced from about to . In 1978, KSLA constructed a new tower on the site of the former transmitter facility.\n\nOn January 19, 1983, KSLA-TV Inc. announced it would sell the station to the Viacom International subsidiary of New York City-based Viacom (the original company indirectly related to the successor entity of the same name and later ownership, and its present-day successor entity known as ViacomCBS) in a tax-free stock swap valued at $29.9 million. Under the terms of the deal, KSLA-TV Inc.—which became a wholly owned subsidiary of Viacom International—exchanged its stock for one million shares in Viacom. The sale received FCC approval two months later on March 30. In 1984, KSLA-TV became the first television station in the Shreveport–Texarkana market to broadcast in stereo, initially broadcasting CBS network programs, local programs and certain syndicated shows that were transmitted in the audio format. In March 1989, the station began preempting \"CBS Sunday Morning with Charles Kuralt\" in favor of running religious programming and infomercials in its timeslot. This sparked outrage from viewers, resulting in a letter-writing campaign to Viacom, CBS and local newspapers to push for \"Sunday Morning\"s return to channel 12. The station was even subjected to picketing by upset viewers in an effort to get the show reinstated. Following a change in station management, KSLA reinstated \"Sunday Morning\" onto its schedule on August 27, 1989.\n\nIn 1994, following the completion of Viacom's acquisition of Paramount Pictures from Gulf+Western, Viacom transferred its five television stations—KSLA; fellow CBS affiliate KMOV in St. Louis; and NBC affiliates WHEC-TV in Rochester, New York; WNYT in Albany, New York; and WVIT in New Britain, Connecticut—into Paramount's broadcasting arm, the Paramount Stations Group.\n\nNot long after that, Paramount announced the formation of the United Paramount Network (UPN), which started operating on January 16, 1995, with channel 12 as a charter owned-and-operated station; due to its CBS programming commitments, KSLA carried UPN's Monday and Tuesday prime time programming between 11:35 p.m. and 1:35 a.m. on both nights. This arrangement ended on August 22, 1995, six days before KSHV-TV (channel 45, now a MyNetworkTV affiliate)—through a programming revamp tied to a shared services agreement (SSA) it reached with Associated Broadcasters Inc.-owned Fox affiliate KMSS-TV—took over as the UPN affiliate for the Shreveport–Texarkana market.\n\nFollowing the merger with Paramount, Viacom also announced it would sell off all of its non-UPN stations. On May 12, 1995, Viacom announced that it would sell KSLA to Englewood, New Jersey-based Hillside Broadcasting (owned by Mario and Della Baeza) for $30 million. Viacom had planned to sell channel 12 both as part of its sale of the company's non-UPN affiliated stations (with KSLA being the first such station to be divested) and to comply with FCC rules of the time that prohibited a single company from owning more than twelve television stations nationwide; the sale to Hillside hinged on the completion of Viacom's $27-million purchase of Atlanta independent station WVEU (now CW owned-and-operated station WUPA) from Broadcasting Corp. of Georgia. Hillside Broadcasting backed out of the deal on June 27; subsequently on July 1, Ellis Communications (owned by Atlanta-based businessman Bert Ellis)—which was formed two years earlier with the purchase of the original New Vision Group stations, and was an investor in Hillside Broadcasting—announced it would acquire KSLA for $30 million. The transaction was approved by the FCC on August 24, and was completed eight days later on September 1, 1995. Ellis was a longtime fan of his hometown's long-dominant ABC-affiliated station, WSB-TV, and styled his new broadcast group after that station, resulting in KSLA (one of four Ellis stations that initially adopted such logos, along with WMC-TV in Memphis and WECT in Wilmington, North Carolina) adopted a logo inspired by the design WSB had introduced in February of the previous year in November 1995, after it adopted a graphics package originally developed for WMC-TV. (Then-sister station WJTV in Jackson, Mississippi adopted a logo inspired by that of KSLA in early 1996; KSLA continues to use a modified version of the 1995 logo to this day.)\n\nOn May 16, 1996, Ellis Communications announced it would sell its fifteen television and two radio stations and sports production/syndication firm Raycom Sports to Atlanta-based Ellis Acquisitions Inc. (founded by Boston-based M&A lawyer Stephen Burr, with financing from Montgomery, Alabama-based pension fund administrator Retirement Systems of Alabama) in an all-cash deal worth $732 million; the Ellis Communications stations as well as subsequent purchases of television stations owned by AFLAC and Detroit-based Federal Enterprises Inc. served as the charter properties of Raycom Media. The purchase of KSLA and the Ellis stations received FCC approval on July 26. 1996.\n\nOn June 25, 2018, Atlanta-based Gray Television announced it had reached an agreement with Raycom to merge their respective broadcasting assets (consisting of Raycom's 63 existing owned-and/or-operated television stations, including KSLA, and Gray's 93 television stations) under Gray's corporate umbrella. The cash-and-stock merger transaction valued at $3.6 billion—in which Gray shareholders would acquire preferred stock currently held by Raycom—resulted in KSLA gaining new sister stations in nearby markets, including primary CBS/subchannel-only Fox and MyNetworkTV affiliate KXII in Sherman, Texas, primary CBS/subchannel-only ABC affiliate KNOE-TV in Monroe and primary NBC/subchannel-only CBS affiliate KALB-TV in Alexandria, in addition to its current sister stations under Raycom ownership; as a result, the combined company will have broadcast properties in six of the seven television markets serving Louisiana (with Lafayette as the lone exception). The sale was approved on December 20, and was completed on January 2, 2019.\n\nKSLA-DT2 is the Grit-affiliated second digital subchannel of KSLA, broadcasting in standard definition on UHF digital channel 17.2 (or virtual channel 12.2 via PSIP). On cable, the subchannel is available on Xfinity digital channel 212 in Shreveport, Suddenlink digital channel 134 in Bossier City, and Cable One channel 32 in Texarkana.\n\nKSLA launched a digital subchannel on virtual channel 12.2 in 2004, which originally served as a standard definition simulcast of the station's main channel. On April 1, 2006, KSLA-DT2 became an affiliate of The Tube Music Network, through a groupwide agreement with Raycom Media. The Tube ceased operations on October 1, 2007, citing \"financial limitations\" as well as due to disagreements between network parent The Tube Media Corp. and certain station group partners over compliance of newly enacted FCC requirements for digital subchannels; KSLA decommissioned the 12.2 subchannel as a consequence. KSLA-DT2 was relaunched on February 23, 2009 as an affiliate of This TV. On December 31, 2015, KSLA-DT2 converted into an affiliate of Grit, an action-adventure network owned by Katz Broadcasting. (As a result of KSLA being included in the Raycom agreement with Grit and Bounce TV, Nexstar Media Group's Shreveport–Texarkana cluster of KTAL and SSA partners KMSS-TV and KSHV-TV were among the stations owned-and/or-operated by the group to be exempted from affiliating with both networks under a separate affiliation contract between Nexstar and Katz signed on June 15, 2016; KTAL and KSHV respectively affiliated with Laff and Escape under that deal on September 1, 2017.)\n\nKSLA-DT3 is the Bounce TV-affiliated third digital subchannel of KSLA, broadcasting in standard definition on UHF digital channel 17.3 (or virtual channel 12.3 via PSIP). On cable, the subchannel is available on Xfinity digital channel 203 in Shreveport, Suddenlink digital channel 133 in Bossier City, and Cable One channel 34 in Texarkana.\n\nKSLA launched a digital subchannel on virtual channel 12.3 in February 2007, which originally served as a local weather forecast channel (under the brand \"KSLA Stormtracker 12 24/7 Weather\"), carrying a mix of updated, pre-recorded local forecast segments presented by meteorologists from the station's \"StormTracker 12 Weather\" staff, a live feed of the station's Doppler radar (then known as \"StormTracker 12 Live Doppler,\" renamed \"First Alert Live Doppler Radar\" in May 2016) accompanied by an audio simulcast of NOAA Weather Radio station WXJ97 as well as loops of weather radar and satellite imagery. On September 26, 2011, through an affiliation agreement between Raycom and network parent Bounce TV LLC, KSLA-DT2 converted into a charter affiliate of the African-American-centric digital broadcast network Bounce TV.\n\nThe station's digital signal is multiplexed:\nKSLA discontinued regular programming on its analog signal, over VHF channel 12, on June 12, 2009, the official date in which full-power television stations in the United States transitioned from analog to digital broadcasts under federal mandate. The station's digital signal remained on its pre-transition UHF channel 17, using PSIP to display the station's virtual channel as its former VHF analog channel 12.\n\nKSLA clears the entire CBS network schedule; however, the station airs certain programs out of pattern. Although the station airs \"Face the Nation\" in its full one-hour broadcasts, the second half-hour typically airs on early Monday mornings to accommodate \"The NFL Today\" and CBS' Sunday afternoon telecasts of National Football League (NFL) games. Since 2014, channel 12 has eschewed syndicated programming from its weekday schedule in order to focus more of its schedule outside of CBS programming toward local newscasts; syndicated programs broadcast on KSLA include \"The Kelly Clarkson Show\" and \"Right This Minute\".\n\nAs the Shreveport–Texarkana market did not have a PBS member station at the time, KSLA was among several commercial television stations in markets without a PBS station that carried programs from the service on a per-program basis. KSLA carried \"Sesame Street\" each weekday morning from February 7, 1972 until May 27, 1977, assuming the show from KTAL, which had carried it from 1970 until 1972. By the time KSLA removed the show from the airwaves, Louisiana Public Broadcasting (LPB) was in preparation for signing on KLTS-TV (channel 24) as a satellite of the member network's Baton Rouge flagship, WLPB-TV, and other PBS member stations were carried on cable. KSLA was among the first fifty television stations in the country to air the hybrid local/national lifestyle newsmagazine concept \"PM Magazine\" (which was licensed by Westinghouse Broadcasting and was also titled \"Evening Magazine\" when broadcast on Group W's television stations), it ran on the station from 1979 to 1984. The local version of the program was hosted by program producer Chuck Smith and Becky Strickland; it became one of the consistently highest-rated versions of \"PM\" in the country, beating syndicated programs (such as \"M*A*S*H\", \"The Newlywed Game\" and \"The People's Court\"), sometimes averaging audience shares higher than 30 percent throughout its five-year run on KSLA and had garnered a 25 rating/39 share by the end of the run of the program. Despite its local success, the KSLA edition of \"PM Magazine\" was canceled in early 1984 and was replaced by reruns of \"Three's Company\" (which was distributed by Viacom at the time), resulting in an almost immediate decline in audience share to 1/10th of that \"PM\" had when it ran in the 6:30 p.m. timeslot.\n\nKSLA was once the home of the Shreveport Captains, the defunct Canadian Football League team, the Shreveport Pirates, and Southeastern Conference sporting events, the latter of which they continue to air via the SEC's deal with CBS Sports. From 1994 to 2009, KSLA was a charter outlet of Raycom Sports, an ad hoc syndication service that mainly carries college football and basketball games not carried by regional sports networks (such as Fox Sports South) and select national broadcast and cable networks (such as ESPN). The Raycom-produced game telecasts consisted of events involving teams in the SEC (including those involving the Louisiana State University Tigers, the Texas A&M Aggies, the Ole Miss Rebels and the Mississippi State Bulldogs), airing between ten and twelve regular season games from each sport per year, with most college football and basketball telecasts airing on Saturday afternoons. Some games resulted in the station preempting sports broadcasts from CBS Sports and, occasionally, CBS prime time shows on its main channel; however, KSLA-DT2 served as an alternate feed of the service, carrying college basketball and football games that KSLA-DT1 could not carry due to CBS programming commitments.\n\nSince 2001, KSLA has also held the local broadcast rights to NFL preseason games from the New Orleans Saints; the station carries roughly between three and five prime time game telecasts annually due to the Saints preseason games being produced by sister station WVUE.\n\n, KSLA presently broadcasts 33 hours of locally produced newscasts each week (with six hours each weekday and 1½ hours each on Saturdays and Sundays). In addition, KSLA-DT3 broadcasts eight hours of locally produced newscasts each week: consisting of an hour-long extension of \"KSLA News 12 This Morning\", and a simulcast of the hour-long 6:00 p.m. newscast carried on the station's main feed, both on weekdays. \n\nThe station's first news anchor and news director, Don Owen, established KSLA's news department. Initially serving as a weather anchor, Owen became a highly trusted figure among area viewers during his three-decade tenure at the station; a local columnist in the \"Shreveport Times\" once referred him \"the Walter Cronkite of the Shreveport media market,\" comparing him to the legendary CBS News anchor. Al Bolton served as the station's first meteorologist; a native of Alexandria, a graduate of Louisiana College in Pineville, and a United States Navy veteran of both World War II and the Korean War, Bolton joined KSLA a month after the station opened and assumed long-term duties as the weather reporter, a position also with unclear duties at the beginning. Bolton also served as host of \"Al's Corral\", a western-themed children's program that was one of the station's most popular local programs. Bolton remained the meteorologist until May 1991, when he began a ten-year association with KRMD radio before retiring. Bolton received the \"Seal of Certification\" from the National Weather Association in 1982 for \"performance well above the media and meteorological standards\".\n\nIn 1961, Bob Griffin joined KSLA as the station's sports editor. Griffin—who originally expected to stay in Shreveport for one or two years before deciding to embark on a 50-year-plus career in the Shreveport market—became personally acquainted with statistics of area athletes, some of whom reached national prominence. He also served as host of \"Bob & His Buddies\", a children's show that aired on channel 12 during the 1960s, and the short-lived \"What's News?\", a current events quiz program for high schoolers that ran from 1963 to 1965, which featured questions based on stories featured on KSLA's newscast and sports segments during the previous week. In October 1967, Nita Fran Hutcheson (later a chamber of commerce official in her hometown of Texarkana, Texas) was hired by Owen to serve as an assignment reporter; her appointment made history, with Hutcheson becoming the first female television reporter in the Shreveport–Texarkana market. Under Owen's stewardship, the station also hired Margaret Pelley (later of \"Dateline NBC\" and Roseanne Colletti (later at WNBC in New York City) to serve as part of the station's reporting staff, along with local figures such as Wray Post, Tom and Barry Irwin, Carl Pendley, and Tony Taglavore. \n\nIn the late 1970s, KSLA was the first television station in the Shreveport–Texarkana market to update transition from film to videotape. In 1983, KSLA also became the first to operate a live satellite truck to assist in newsgathering purposes. \n\nIn September 2008, KSLA became the first television station in Louisiana (and one of the first in the nation) to air a weekday morning newscast at 9:00 a.m. In September 2010, KSLA expanded its weeknight 6:00 p.m. newscast to one hour and expanded the weekend edition of its 10:00 p.m. newscast to one hour. On October 15, 2010, KSLA became the second television station in the Shreveport-Texarkana market to begin broadcasting its local newscasts in high definition.\n\nOn September 7, 2016, KSLA launched a half-hour newscast at 4:00 p.m. on weekday afternoons.\n\nIn recent years, the station's news department has won several Regional Emmy Awards and four Regional Edward R. Murrow Awards for its news coverage. In 2019, the station was awarded a national Murrow Award for excellence in multimedia.\n\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "2165527", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165527", "title": "Fire on the Mountain (Abbey novel)", "text": "Fire on the Mountain (Abbey novel)\n\nFire on the Mountain is a 1962 novel by Edward Abbey. It was Abbey's third published novel and followed \"Jonathan Troy\" and \"The Brave Cowboy\".\n\nAbbey includes the following paragraph to introduce this book:\n\nThe hero of the story is John Vogelin, a New Mexico rancher whose land is about to be condemned by the United States Air Force, who want to use his land to expand a bombing range. He is the last holdout among the several people whose land the Air Force wants, and he refuses to move. The story of his resistance to being thrown off his land and his death is told through the eyes of his grandson, who is visiting the ranch for the summer.\n\nThe book is essentially a critique on the over-extension of government. Abbey makes an argument for limited government, more explicitly to limit government's ability to expropriate private land. However, Abbey still opposed the private sector from developing on natural lands, arguments which were explored in later books such as The Monkey Wrench Gang through the novel's antagonist, which put him at odds with aspects of these ideologies. \n\nIn 1981 the book was made into a made-for-television movie, \"Fire on the Mountain\". Buddy Ebsen played John Vogelin and Ron Howard played Lee Mackie.\n\nFolk singer Laura Veirs wrote a song called \"The Ballad of John Vogelin\". It appeared on her 2003 record \"Troubled By The Fire\".\n"}
{"id": "2165528", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165528", "title": "As Seen on TV (novel)", "text": "As Seen on TV (novel)\n\nAs Seen on TV is Irish author Chris Kerr's second novel. It was published by Weidenfeld & Nicolson, The Orion Publishing Group, based in London in 2005 ().\n\nSet in the world of TV and small screen production, the main character is a screenwriter. Rush is given the chance to write for the \"A-Team\" movie, a step up from the world of Zombie, flesh-eaters!\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2165533", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165533", "title": "Iraq Relief and Reconstruction Fund", "text": "Iraq Relief and Reconstruction Fund\n\nThe Iraq Relief and Reconstruction Fund (IRRF) was established by the US Congress on November 6, 2003. It allocated $18.4 billion to rebuild Iraq's infrastructure, damaged from years of neglect, sanctions, and war.\n\nAs of March 29, 2006, approximately $16.3 billion, or 89%, had been obligated and $11.4 billion had been spent. The fund has come under some criticism due to the slowness with which the allocated money has been disbursed, largely because of the time-consuming US procurement process.\n\nA budget for the allocation of the $18.4 billion may be found here.\n\nWeekly updates on reconstruction spending are available from www.defendamerica.mil, and from www.usaid.gov.\n\nThe duties of the Special Inspector General for Iraq Reconstruction include oversight of expenditures from the Iraq Relief and Reconstruction Fund.\n\n"}
{"id": "2165536", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165536", "title": "Jonathan Troy", "text": "Jonathan Troy\n\nJonathan Troy (1954) was Edward Abbey's first published novel, as detailed in James M. Cahalan's biography of Abbey. Only 5,000 copies were printed and almost immediately after it was released the author wanted to disown the work. He asked that it never be published again, and it has not been, making it very rare and the only one of his eight novels that many Edward Abbey fans have not read.\n\nWhen a fan once asked where they could find a copy of the novel, Abbey is reported to have told them \"I don't know where you can find one, but if you do, burn it.\" Copies of the book offered for sale online start at $1,300 and go up to $7,500.\n\nAbbey's disgust with the novel was immediate. According to James M. Cahalan's biography, \"Edward Abbey, A Life\", he could barely get through the galleys before the book was published. He said it seemed \"even worse than I had thought,\" too \"juvenile, naive, succeeded in almost nothing. Too much empty rhetoric, not enough meat and bone. Not convincing. All the obvious faults of the beginner.\"\n\nIn 1984 Abbey was quoted by William Plummer in \"Edward Abbey's Desert Solecisms\" as saying that Jonathan Troy \"was a disgusting novel, fortunately long out of print. ... It's about the agonies of growing up in a small town: pimples and masturbation. There's a Faulkner chapter, an entire chapter in one sentence ... There's a Thomas Wolfe wind-through-the-trees-outside-the-farmhouse chapter, a Joyce chapter, and of course there are newspaper clips all through the thing, like in Dos Passos's Nineteen Nineteen.\"\n\nThis is the only one of Abbey's eight novels that was set entirely east of the Mississippi River and away from his beloved deserts of the Southwestern United States. He does spend a good portion of The Fool's Progress in West Virginia, but it starts in Tucson and then follows a road trip to its climax.\n\nIn high school Abbey kept a journal and often used the moniker Jonathan Troy to refer to himself. While no one has claimed that the book is in any way an autobiographical account, it was not well received by people who had known Abbey during his senior year of high school. The contempt Jonathan shows for the residents of his home town was a hard blow to people Abbey knew in high school, a fact that may have had something to do with Abbey's later regret at having published this book.\n\nStill, as with his later novels, the book contains more fiction than fact. For example, in the book, Jonathan lives alone with his one-eyed father. In real life, both of Abbey's parents were living and his father had two perfectly good eyes.\n\nAccording to the back of the book jacket, Abbey began writing Jonathan Troy as a creative writing assignment at the University of New Mexico in Albuquerque under the sponsorship of Professor C.V. Wicker. After receiving his B.A. degree in 1951, Abbey spent a year at the University of Edinburgh. It was there that the greater part of Jonathan Troy was completed.\n\nMany of the other characters in the book refer to Jonathan Troy as the golden boy. He's a senior at the local high school and they call him that because he has everything: Looks, intelligence and talent. But he is not an easy character for the reader to like. We're given an insight into the mind of a teen-age boy, where he holds nearly everyone he meets in contempt—especially his father, Nathaniel, and his favorite teacher, Feathersmith.\n\nThe book is written as a series of different events, almost none of them related. Jonathan has had an ongoing relationship with one girl, Etheline. But once he finally succeeds in seducing her, he begins to lose interest, especially when she starts talking about marriage. A chance meeting with a new girl in town, Leafy, gives him new inspiration and he begins pursuit of her.\n\nAbbey also introduces the only major gay character in any of his eight novels, Phillip Feathersmith. Abbey doesn't come right out and say he's gay, but he describes his \"fairy-flower\" hands, talks about what a pink little fellow he is, and Jonathan calls him \"Fairysmith\" in his own mind. Feathersmith shows an attraction to Jonathan that is not very subtle.\n\nMost of the story is set in a western Pennsylvania town called Powhattan. It was actually based on the town near where Abbey grew up, Indiana, Pennsylvania. Abbey even uses some of the names of businesses in Indiana in the 1940s for his story. The Blue Star Restaurant becomes the Blue Bell Bar that is the business under the apartment Jonathan Troy shares with his father.\n\nThere are many hints of the greatness Abbey would fine tune in his later works, including his love of the desert (Jonathan longs to go there); his deep passion for women and beer; and above all his sense of humor.\n\nOne of the memorable characters in the book is Fatgut, a pathological liar who Jonathan seems close to. But for most of the book you figure Jonathan has no friends, mostly because he's too full of himself. You hear his every thought, and it's all very brutally honest.\n\nThe key secondary character of the story is Jonathan's father, Nathaniel Troy. He is a Communist living in 1950s America, right about the time of the Red Scare. He receives almost daily threats to his well-being. Jonathan avoids his father as much as possible, living a mostly independent life. But the climax of the story comes when some town drunks decide they're going to make the Communist kiss the American flag.\n\nAnother character in the novel is Red Ginter, who would also be a character in The Fool's Progress. In this book, Ginter is the neighborhood bully who has tormented Jonathan most of his life. In the latter book, he's a member of a baseball team who hits the game-winning home run, but then refuses to run the bases.\n\nThere was a real person named Earl \"Red\" Ginter who was part of Abbey's early life and seems to be the inspiration for these characters.\n\nThere is no nobility in Jonathan Troy. Having access to his thoughts kills any affection you might be able to muster. He's rude to nearly everyone he meets, especially his father. Once he's made love to Etheline, he looks at her again with fresh perspective and decides he hates her body. And when given an opportunity to stand up for something noble, Jonathan usually turns and heads in the other direction.\n\nOne of the techniques Abbey uses in this book is devote a few chapters to printing notices in the local newspaper. It provides a slice of small-town life and in at least once case, relates to the plot.\n\n"}
{"id": "2165543", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165543", "title": "KEPR-TV", "text": "KEPR-TV\n\nKEPR-TV (pronounced \"keeper\"), virtual channel 19 (UHF digital channel 18), is a dual CBS/CW+-affiliated television station licensed to Pasco, Washington, United States and serving the Tri-Cities (Richland/Pasco/Kennewick) area. The station is owned by the Sinclair Broadcast Group. KEPR's studios are located on West Lewis Street (US 395) in Pasco, and its transmitter is located on Johnson Butte near Kennewick.\n\nAlthough identifying as a station in its own right, KEPR is considered a semi-satellite of KIMA-TV (channel 29) in Yakima, which operates another semi-satellite, KLEW-TV (channel 3) in Lewiston, Idaho. KEPR and KLEW simulcast all network and syndicated programming as provided through KIMA, but air separate commercial inserts, legal identifications and early evening newscasts, and have their own websites. KEPR is also sister to low-powered, Class A Univision affiliate KVVK-CD (channel 15). Master control and some internal operations for the four stations are based at KOMO Plaza (formerly Fisher Plaza) in Seattle. \n\nOn satellite, Dish Network and DirecTV carry both KEPR-TV and KIMA-TV.\n\nKEPR-TV went on the air for the first time December 28, 1954 as a satellite of KIMA-TV. It was owned by Cascade Broadcasting Company, which also owned 40 percent of KWIE (610 AM) in Kennewick. Cascade bought the remaining 60 percent of KWIE in 1956 and changed its call letters to KEPR, matching the television station, the following year.\n\nA few years earlier, the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) collapsed all of central Washington into one giant television market. However, this market was designated a \"UHF island\" due to being sandwiched between Seattle to the west, Spokane to the east and Portland to the south. It soon became apparent that one full-power UHF station would not be nearly enough to adequately cover this vast and mountainous area. KEPR-TV thus signed on as the first station in the United States to be a satellite of another.\n\nOriginal plans called for it to be a straight repeater of KIMA-TV, apart from station identifications. However, it soon became apparent that Tri-Cities residents wanted a more local station. Monte Strohl, who until then had been a radio salesman at KIMA, was installed as the first manager-salesman of KEPR-TV. The station also added a separate news department.\n\nLike its parent station, KEPR-TV carried programming from all three networks, but was a primary CBS affiliate. It lost NBC in 1965 when KNDU (channel 25) followed the lead of parent station KNDO (channel 23) and became a full-time NBC affiliate, and lost ABC when KVEW (channel 42) signed on along with parent KAPP (channel 35) in 1970. During the 1970s, the two stations co-branded as \"Cascade TV.\"\n\nKEPR produces \"Community Health Journal\" with Jim Hall, a former anchorman for the station who is now with Kadlec Medical Center in Richland. The program has aired for 15 years, making it one of the longest-running magazine programs in the market.\n\nFilmways agreed to purchase Cascade Broadcasting for $3 million in 1968; the sale was approved the following year. Cascade's previous owners retained the company's radio stations, which by this point also included KEPR-FM (105.3 FM), under the name Yakima Valley Communications; the KEPR radio stations then changed their call letters to KONA and KONA-FM. Filmways sold KEPR-TV, KIMA-TV, and KLEW-TV to NWG Broadcasting for $1 million in 1972. Retlaw Enterprises acquired the NWG stations for $17 million in 1986; the stations were operated as part of the Retlaw Broadcasting division. Fisher Communications purchased KEPR-TV along with the other Retlaw owned stations in 1999.\nIn 2000, KEPR became the first station in the Tri-Cities to broadcast a digital signal with the activation of a low-power, standard definition signal on channel 18; this was upgraded to a full-power, high definition signal in 2007. The digital signal remained on channel 18 following the end of analog broadcasting in 2009; using PSIP to display its virtual channel as 19.\n\nOn March 30, 2009, KEPR launched a digital subchannel affiliated with The CW, filling the void left by KCWK (channel 9) going dark at the end of May 2008 due to the Pappas Telecasting bankruptcy. The subchannel subsequently took KCWK's former channel 9 position on local cable systems. As had been the case with KCWK, programming is primarily sourced from the network's CW Plus feed, though there is a 10 p.m. newscast on weeknights.\n\nOn April 11, 2013, Fisher announced that it would sell its properties, including KEPR-TV, to the Sinclair Broadcast Group. The deal was completed on August 8, 2013.\n\nThe station's digital signal is multiplexed:\nCurrent syndicated programs on KEPR include \"Dr. Phil\", \"Judge Judy\", \"The Big Bang Theory\", and \"The Simpsons\", which has aired at 7:30 p.m. a majority of the time since it went into syndication in the fall of 1994.\n\nKEPR's morning, 10 p.m. (on CW), 11 p.m. and weekend newscasts are shared with KIMA-TV. Branded as \"KIMA/KEPR Action News\", they cover both the Columbia Basin and the Yakima Valley. KEPR continues to produce its own 5 and 6 p.m. newscasts.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2165544", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165544", "title": "Division of Mitchell", "text": "Division of Mitchell\n\nThe Division of Mitchell is an Australian electoral division in the state of New South Wales.\n\nThe division is named after Major Thomas Mitchell, surveyor and explorer who was the first European to explore large areas of New South Wales and Victoria. The division was proclaimed at the redistribution of 11 May 1949, and was first contested at the 1949 federal election. The majority of the electorate is fairly conservative, and it has been a safe seat for the Liberal Party of Australia for most of its existence. Labor has won it twice, for one term each. Labor last won it in 1972 in the swing that brought Gough Whitlam to power. However, proving this seat's conservative nature, the Liberals took it back in 1974 and have held it without serious difficulty since then. A 1984 redistribution cut out Richmond and the Hawkesbury River area, making this already safely conservative seat even more so. The current Member for Mitchell, since the 2007 federal election, is Liberal Alex Hawke.\n\nThe seat includes most of the Hills District, a region with a large evangelical Christian population that has pushed the seat further to the right. However, the southernmost suburbs of North Rocks, Northmead and Winston Hills are located in the Parramatta local government area, and share that LGA's bellwether tendencies. They been won by Labor at high-tide elections such as at the 2007 federal election. After the 2013 federal election, Mitchell replaced nearby Bradfield as the safest Coalition seat in metropolitan Australia, with Labor needing a 22-point swing to win it. As of the 2016 federal election, it is now the third-safest metropolitan Coalition seat, behind Bradfield and Curtin, with a 17-point swing needed for Labor to win it.\n\nThe division is located in the Hills District of Sydney, and includes the entire suburbs of Baulkham Hills, Beaumont Hills, Bella Vista, Box Hill, Kellyville, North Kellyville, Nelson, and Winston Hills. The division also includes parts of Castle Hill, Glenhaven, Maraylya, North Rocks, Northmead, Old Toongabbie, Rouse Hill, and West Pennant Hills.\n\n"}
{"id": "2165551", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165551", "title": "Worcester Regional Airport", "text": "Worcester Regional Airport\n\nWorcester Regional Airport is three miles (5 km) west of Worcester, in Worcester County, Massachusetts. The main property lies within municipalities of Worcester and Leicester, with supporting facilities in Paxton. Once owned by the City of Worcester, the airport has been owned and operated by the Massachusetts Port Authority (Massport) since June 2010.\n\nWorcester's entry into the world of aviation began in 1925, when city officials commissioned a study to examine sites for the city's first airport. On the list of sites was land owned by a wealthy local citizen, Whitin Whitall. In 1927, Whitall, independently of the city commission, set up an airport on his land in North Grafton, above sea level. This two-runway airport opened for leisure travel on October 12, 1927.\n\nAs air travel became more popular, airport expansion was the subject of a second study commissioned by the city. The Grafton airport was deemed too small to accommodate the air travel needs of the region. The location of the present airport, Tatnuck Hill, on the borders of Worcester, Leicester, and Paxton, was high on the commission's list. One problem noted by the commission was the weather: at above sea level, the Tatnuck site was often surrounded by fog. Despite this problem, the city eventually chose Tatnuck as the new site, and construction began in 1944. The airport was ceremoniously opened on May 4, 1946, and started regular passenger service one week later on May 10, 1946. The Grafton airport remained in operation until 1951, when the owners, due to the dwindling traffic, decided to dismantle the airport. The land was redeveloped as a residential neighborhood. Leicester Airport, a small private airfield also built during the first half-century of aviation, was active until the 1970s. It still sits, now mostly overgrown in the shadow of Worcester Regional.\n\nMillions of dollars were spent replacing the old terminal, which hosted a half-dozen airlines before its demolition. In the mid 1980s and early 1990s, major carriers, such as Piedmont, Northwest Airlines, Continental, and USAir all flew mainline jets into Worcester. In addition, smaller carriers, like New York Air and Presidential Airways also had jet service. The small terminal had two ground level jetways built to accommodate the growth. But one by one, those carriers left. A succession of second-tier air carriers have come and gone over the last decade.\n\nAllegiant Air began McDonnell-Douglas MD-80 service to Orlando/Sanford, FL (SFB) on December 22, 2005, and expanded to 4 flights per week in March 2006. Allegiant announced on August 22, 2006, that they would cut ties with the airport, citing high fuel costs and passenger loads in the 80% range as the reason for departure. The departure came as a huge surprise to the city as service was reported to be going great throughout Allegiant's entire tenure at the airport.\n\nOn September 4, 2008, Direct Air announced they would begin service to Worcester beginning in November 2008, with flights from Orlando/Sanford, FL and Fort Myers/Punta Gorda, FL. The flights were initially operated by Virgin America using Airbus A320 aircraft, however Direct Air was forced to return the aircraft in June 2009 to suffice Virgin's rapidly expanding domestic routes. Following this Direct Air began carrying out flights on Boeing 737-400's owned by Xtra Airways. Due to this being a wet-lease agreement, there were times where the aircraft was unavailable and other aircraft had to be chartered for the flights. Such examples include an Airbus A320 from USA 3000 and a Boeing 757 from North American Airlines. In March 2009, Direct Air added additional flights to Myrtle Beach, SC. In July 2010, Direct Air expanded their Worcester service further to West Palm Beach, Florida. The airline had further plans to launch flights to San Juan, Puerto Rico and Nassau, Bahamas, but in March 2012, Direct Air suspended all operations and filed for Chapter 7 bankruptcy on April 12, 2012.\n\nOn April 3, 2013, JetBlue announced daily flights to Orlando, Florida and Fort Lauderdale, Florida, starting November 7, 2013. This came after over a year of negotiating with the airline that included a competition among local residents to help advertise the city. This became the first mainline service out of Worcester in over a decade. The airline currently uses the 100 seat Embraer 190 for their flights, although occasionally they are substituted for the 165 seat Airbus A320. With the airport's current terminal facility JetBlue can operate two aircraft at a time with a pair of jetways and ticket counters.\n\nA revamp of the defunct airline Air Florida had planned to fly out of Worcester at the beginning of 2015 as a scheduled charter operation but the airline never got off the ground.\nOn November 17, 2015, Rectrix Aviation opened a new FBO building and hangar in Worcester. Rectrix also plans to launch flights between Worcester and Cape Cod possibly as soon as the summer of 2016 with their newly established commercial airline operation, Rectrix Shuttle. On October 14, 2016, Rectrix announced intentions to begin commercial service between Worcester and Baltimore within the next year. The flight is expected to be once daily each way, continuing to Sarasota, Florida after a quick stop at BWI. This however is in question as Rectrix has not commented further on pursuing the route in over a year and has not acquired aircraft required to do so.\n\nOn February 28, 2017, JetBlue announced it would expand its service at the airport, adding a daily non-stop flight to New York City. JetBlue did not provide a start date, but airline officials said the new flights would not begin until after the landing system operational. This leaves a projected start date for the service in the early weeks of 2018.\n\nOn June 26, 2017, Rectrix Aviation announced it would begin Beechcraft King Air 300 flights between Worcester and Hyannis on June 29, 2017. These flights ran from Thursday to Monday. In May 2019, Worcester was removed from the airlines route map and service ended after two summers.\n\nOn December 7, 2017, JetBlue announced its daily non-stop flights to New York City would begin on May 3, 2018; signaling the start of ticket sales. The first revenue flight to New York left Worcester at 6 AM on May 3, 2018.\n\nOn April 9, 2018, American Airlines announced it would begin daily non-stop service from Worcester to Philadelphia on October 4, 2018. On June 4, American Airlines announced it would add a second daily flight and would be changing the schedule of the initial flight. The service operates twice-daily on 50 seat Embraer ERJ-145s. Despite the efforts to add an additional frequency, Piedmont announced in February only 4 months into service a reduction to only one daily flight starting in June 2019 due to low demand.\n\nOn August 28, 2018, Delta Air Lines announced it would begin daily non-stop service from Worcester to Detroit Metropolitan Airport, operated by SkyWest Airlines (Delta Connection); which began on August 1, 2019, using 50 seat CRJ-200's.\n\nOn January 25, 2020, Delta announced it would too, begin cutting back flights, dropping the Saturday flight to Detroit. There is some speculation that the Saturday flight may return in May, however this is not likely, as Delta is seeing only 50 to 60 percent loads to Detroit.\n\nThe airport had been under an operating agreement with Massport, the Massachusetts Port Authority, for several years. Under the agreement, the city and Massport paid the operating deficit together.\n\n\nBy law, Worcester had to transfer ownership of the airport to Massport sometime in 2009 or 2010. As of July 1, 2010, Massport became the owner and operator of the airport.\n\nWorcester Regional Airport was used for shooting of the films \"Captain Phillips\", \"Knight and Day\", \"The Judge\" and \"The Sea of Trees\".\n\nWorcester Regional Airport covers 1,000 acres (4 km²) and has two runways: 11/29 is 7,001 x 150 ft (2,134 x 46 m) and 15/33 is 5,000 x 100 ft (1,524 x 30 m). Runways 11 and 29 have ILS equipment. EMAS pads are located at the starting thresholds of runways 11 and 29.\n\nThe airport passenger terminal has four gates with jetways and two ramp level gates for regional carriers. The terminal has two baggage carousels and a TSA installed passenger and baggage screening system on the first floor. \nThere are also two Mirage Express cafes located inside the airport. \n\nWBZ-TV operates a doppler weather radar station at the airport.\n\nRectrix Aviation is the fixed-base operator at the airport.\n\nOn April 28, 2016 Massport approved funding for the installation of a Category IIIb instrument landing system at ORH. The geographic location of the airport, on top of the tallest hill in the city reaching approximately 1,000 feet above sea level, leaves Worcester on average with 40 more days of fog a year than nearby Boston. The installation of the Category IIIb landing system will allow aircraft to land and depart in virtually all weather conditions. There are no Category IIIc airports in the United States; it is simply not allowed for safety reasons. The installation of the landing system also will include a jug-handle taxiway at the approach end of Runway 11.\n\nThe ILS system was completed in December 2017, and went live on March 19, 2018. Completion of the ILS allowed JetBlue to add a flight from Worcester to John F. Kennedy International Airport, operated with an Embraer E190 aircraft. The JetBlue flights to Ft. Lauderdale and Orlando are also able to use the ILS. However, American Airlines' announced flight to Philadelphia will be operated by an Embraer 145 aircraft which will not be able to use the newly installed Category III system. It will however be able to operate down to Category II minimums allowing for improved weather standards versus fog problems seen at Worcester in the past. American confirmed plans of operating down to Category II standards and does not expect fog to be an issue with the new service.\n\n\nSource: \n\nFor 12-month period ending July 23, 2017, the airport had 36,032 aircraft operations, an average of 99 per day: 91% general aviation, 4% scheduled commercial, 3% military and 3% air taxi. In January 2018, there were 74 aircraft based at this airport: 69 single-engine and 5 multi-engine.\n\nAt its peak in 1989, Worcester Airport served about 354,000 passengers. In 2009, the airport served fewer than 50,000 passengers, though 107,000 passengers used the airport in 2011.\n\nOn June 10, 2016 JetBlue and the City of Worcester celebrated the 300,000th passenger since beginning service in 2013, an average of about 84%.\n\nIn the calendar year of 2019, the airport served over 196,000 passengers, with JetBlue serving about 79% of passengers, Piedmont serving 18% of passengers, and SkyWest serving about 3% of all passengers. \n\nThree rental car agencies are located in the terminal building at Worcester Regional Airport. Avis, Hertz, and Thrifty all have concession stands across from the baggage claim.\n\nThe Worcester Regional Transit Authority (WRTA)'s route #2 bus connects Union Station, a regional MBTA Commuter Rail, Amtrak, and bus transportation hub in the Downtown Worcester district, with the airport. Union Station is the western terminus of the Massachusetts Bay Transportation Authority's Framingham/Worcester Line, with eastbound service to Back Bay and South Station in Boston. Additionally, service via Amtrak's \"Lake Shore Limited\" Boston section to/from Albany, New York, with connections to Chicago (formerly also the \"Regional\"'s \"Inland Route\") stops at this location, as does intercity (Peter Pan Bus Lines), (Greyhound Bus Lines), and other local WRTA bus services at Union Station.\n\nThe airport presently lacks a direct connection to an Interstate Highway. However, a number of Interstate routes such as: I-290, I-90, I-190, I-395, I-495, and routes: MA-9, MA-122, and MA-146 provide access through smaller access roads. Travel time to reach the airport is approximately 5–10 minutes after exiting Interstate I-290, Worcester's primary access via interstate highway from the north and the south also with direct access to the Massachusetts Turnpike.\n\n"}
{"id": "2165558", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165558", "title": "PMD (software)", "text": "PMD (software)\n\nPMD(Programming Mistake Detector) is an open source static source code analyzer that reports on issues found within application code. PMD includes built-in rule sets and supports the ability to write custom rules. PMD does not report compilation errors, as it only can process well-formed source files. Issues reported by PMD are rather inefficient code, or bad programming habits, which can reduce the performance and maintainability of the program if they accumulate. It can analyze files written in Java, JavaScript, Apex and Visualforce, PLSQL, Apache Velocity, XML, and XSL.\n\nWhile PMD does not officially stand for anything, it has several unofficial names, the most appropriate probably being \"Programming Mistake Detector\".\n\nPMD is able to detect flaws or possible flaws in source code, like:\n\nPMD is released under a BSDish license while parts of it are under Apache License 2.0 and the LGPL.\n\nThe Copy/Paste Detector (CPD) is an add-on to PMD that uses the Rabin–Karp string search algorithm to find duplicated code.\nUnlike PMD, CPD works with a broader range of languages including Java, JavaServer Pages (JSP), C, C++, Fortran, PHP, and C# code.\n\nPMD has plugins for JDeveloper, Eclipse, jEdit, JBuilder, Omnicore's CodeGuide, NetBeans/Sun Studio, IntelliJ IDEA, TextPad, Maven, Ant, Gradle, Gel, JCreator, Hudson, Jenkins, SonarQube, Visual Studio Code and Emacs. There is also a CLI version.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2165569", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165569", "title": "KLEW-TV", "text": "KLEW-TV\n\nKLEW-TV, virtual channel 3 (UHF digital channel 32), is a CBS-affiliated television station licensed to Lewiston, Idaho, United States, serving north-central Idaho and southeastern Washington, including nearby Pullman, as well as Wallowa County, Oregon. The station is owned by the Sinclair Broadcast Group. KLEW's studios are located on 17th Street in Lewiston, and its transmitter is located near Clarkston, Washington.\n\nThough identifying as a station in its own right, KLEW-TV is considered a semi-satellite of KIMA-TV (channel 29) in Yakima, which operates another semi-satellite, KEPR-TV (channel 19) in Tri-Cities, Washington. KLEW and KEPR simulcast all network and syndicated programming as provided through KIMA, but air separate commercial inserts, legal identifications and weeknight newscasts, and have their own websites. Master control and some internal operations are based at KOMO Plaza (formerly Fisher Plaza) in Seattle.\n\nKLEW is carried alongside KREM (channel 2, owned by Tegna Inc.) on Dish Network and DirecTV throughout the Spokane television market.\n\nKLEW-TV signed on the air December 7, 1955 under the ownership of Cascade Broadcasting. It has always been a CBS affiliate; however, as a satellite of KIMA-TV, it also carried some programming from ABC and NBC in its early years. The station's original studio facilities were located on Idaho Street in Lewiston.\n\nFilmways agreed to purchase Cascade Broadcasting for $3 million in 1968; the sale was approved the following year. Filmways sold KLEW-TV, KIMA-TV, and KEPR-TV to NWG Broadcasting for $1 million in 1972. In 1977, KLEW moved from its original studios on Idaho Street to its current location on 17th Street.\nRetlaw Enterprises acquired the NWG stations, including KLEW-TV, for $17 million in 1986; the stations were operated as part of the Retlaw Broadcasting division. Fisher Companies (later known as Fisher Communications) agreed to purchase the Retlaw stations for $215 million on November 19, 1998, a deal that was completed in July 1999. On April 11, 2013, Fisher announced that it would sell its properties to the Sinclair Broadcast Group; the deal was completed on August 8, 2013.\n\nThe station's digital signal is multiplexed:\nKLEW-TV airs local newscasts weeknights at 5:00, 6:00 and 11:00 p.m., local news cut-ins during the weekday edition of \"CBS This Morning\" from 7:00 to 9:00 a.m., that includes a short 5-minute interview segment called \"Northwest Morning\", and simulcasts sister station KIMA-TV's 5:00 and 6:30 a.m. newscasts, as KLEW does not have morning, midday or weekend newscasts.\n\n"}
{"id": "2165574", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165574", "title": "The Brave Cowboy", "text": "The Brave Cowboy\n\nThe Brave Cowboy (1956) was Edward Abbey's second published novel.\n\nIn 1993 Dream Garden Press produced a special limited edition of the book that includes an introduction by Kirk Douglas, who was the star in the film based on the book. It also includes photos from the film. Douglas signed 500 copies of that special edition.\n\nThis book is the story of a cowboy, Jack Burns, who lives as a transient worker and roaming ranch hand much as the cowboys of old did, and refuses to join modern society. He rejects much of modern technology, prefers to cut down any fence he comes across, will not carry any kind of modern identification such as a driver's license or Social Security card, and refuses to register for the draft. When his friend Paul Bondi, who is a philosophical anarchist, is jailed in Albuquerque, New Mexico, for refusing to register for the draft, Burns deliberately gets himself arrested in an attempt to break his friend out of jail, but winds up on the run from the law himself.\n\nBondi has been tried and is awaiting transport from county jail to federal prison but refuses to escape with Burns. As police have discovered that Burns has also never registered for the draft, authorities are intent on sending Burns to trial and eventually federal prison for violation of the Selective Service Act of 1948. Burns eventually escapes reluctantly leaving his friend behind. After a brief stop to say goodbye to Paul's wife, Jerry, and son, Seth, Jack heads into the Sandia Mountains, just east of Albuquerque, on horseback.\n\nThe police mount a manhunt and pull out all the stops to capture Burns, including helicopters on loan by the Air Force. If Burns can scale the mountain range, he figures he can escape under the cover of the forest on the other side. The police know this as well, so they position themselves to prevent that from happening.\n\nMany casual fans of Abbey might consider George Washington Hayduke as the author's favorite character, but it was John W. \"Jack\" Burns who Abbey kept writing about. Burns is introduced in \"The Brave Cowboy\". He is also a major character in Abbey's science fiction novel, \"Good News\". Burns makes cameo appearances in both \"The Monkey Wrench Gang\" and \"Hayduke Lives!\".\n\n\"The Brave Cowboy\" also contains elements of future books, though the relationship between them is unclear. \"The Brave Cowboy\" explains that Burns is the grandson of Henry Vogelin, whose ranch Burns spent time on as a child. The ranch, currently in the hands of the US Air Force is part of a base commanded by General DeSalius. Vogelin and DeSalius will be characters six years later in Abbey's 1962 work \"Fire on the Mountain\", the story of a boy from the East Coast who visits his grandfather's ranch and falls in love with the desert and ranch life just in time to see both destroyed by development. However, Burns's time on the ranch is well detailed in Brave Cowboy and the only characters the stories share are Vogelin and DeSalius. Though the book is written as a memoir, Jack seems too old to have been the boy staying on the ranch at the moment of dispossession. Having written \"Fire On The Mountain\" after \"The Brave Cowboy\", Abbey chose to write about the child \"Billy\" rejecting the option of using the novel to explain the past of Jack Burns. Yet it is still possible that the novels are directly linked, as the number of Vogelin's children is never revealed. Jack and Billy may be cousins or brothers, and the Vogelin and ranch in question may indeed be the same in both novels.\n\nThe first edition of the book is considered the rarest of Abbey's eight novels. There was only one printing of 5,000 copies and many of them have not survived. One online rare book dealer shows copies of the first U.S. edition start at $4,000 and the highest asking price is $10,000.\n\nKirk Douglas gave the film version of \"The Brave Cowboy\" the title \"Lonely Are the Brave\", his personal favorite. It was adapted by Academy Award-winning—and formerly blacklisted—screenwriter Dalton Trumbo. Released in 1962, it is one of only two films made based on Abbey's novels. British writer/director/actor Alex Cox has lauded the film, writing that \"there is no greater western, and certainly no more tragic one.\" \nThe second Abbey adaptation was \"Fire on the Mountain\", which was a made-for-TV movie that starred Ron Howard and Buddy Ebsen. A third film, based on Abbey's most popular novel, \"The Monkey Wrench Gang\", is currently in development. Catherine Hardwicke is scheduled to direct the film.\n"}
{"id": "2165578", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165578", "title": "Traverse City Film Festival", "text": "Traverse City Film Festival\n\nThe Traverse City Film Festival is an annual film festival held at the end of July in Traverse City, Michigan. The festival was created as an annual event in 2005 to help “save one of America's few indigenous art forms—the cinema.\" The event was co-founded by Michael Moore, the Oscar-winning film director, well known for his anti-establishment films and documentaries such as \"Fahrenheit 9/11\", \"Bowling for Columbine\", and \"Roger & Me\", along with author Doug Stanton and photographer John Robert Williams. \n\nThe mission of the Festival is to show \"Just Great Movies\" that represent excellence in filmmaking, particularly those rare independent films and documentaries by both noted and new filmmakers, that do not receive mainstream distribution.\n\nThe Traverse City Film Festival is a non-profit organization, and is funded by businesses, community groups and individuals, in addition to ticket sales accumulated by various events. The Festival is headed by a board of directors of filmmakers, writers, and creative professionals. Traverse City Film Festival also showcases all volunteer music, with over 60 regional artists featured in the 2016 event.\n\nThe 1st annual Traverse City Film Festival was held July 27–31, 2005. The 5-day event featured many independent films, plus four classic films. The independent films were shown in three indoor venues in downtown Traverse City: the State Theatre, the Old Town Playhouse, and the City Opera House. In addition, each night, a classic film was shown on a giant inflatable screen along West Grand Traverse Bay in the city's Open Space Park. \"Broken Flowers\", a winner at the 2005 Cannes Film Festival, was shown at the Traverse City Film Festival before being released to the general public. Other 2005 Traverse City Film Festival selections covered a gamut of film subjects ranging from period romances, unemployment, terrorism, among many other subjects.\n\nFree Movies at the Open Space:\nThe second annual Traverse City Film Festival was held July 31 – August 6, 2006. Michigan Filmmaker Award went to Jeff Daniels.\n\nStanley Kubrick Tribute:\nFree Movies at the Open Space:\nThe third annual festival was held July 31 – August 5, 2007. Michigan Filmmaker Award went to Christine Lahti.\n\n\nFree Movies at the Open Space:\nThe fourth annual festival took place July 29 – August 3, 2008. There was a special appearance by Madonna, on August 2, 2008, in order to introduce her film \"I Am Because We Are\". Michigan Filmmaker Award went to Kurt Luedtke. Also this year was the world premiere for Religulous.\n\n\nFree Movies at the Open Space:\nThe fifth annual festival was held from July 28 – August 2, 2009. There were 123 screenings of films from over 30 countries. Michigan Filmmaker Award went to Rich Brauer.\n\n\nFree Movies at the Open Space:\nThe sixth annual festival was held from July 27 – August 1, 2010. Michigan Filmmaker Award went to John Hughes.\n\nOpening and Closing Night:\n\nTCFF 3D:\n\nComedy & Drama from Home and Abroad:\n\nThe Beatles at the Movies (A 40th Anniversary):\n\nA Salute to Cuban Film:\n\nShorts Programs:\nDangerous Docs:\n\nMidnight:\n\nSpecial Screenings:\n\nKids Fest:\n\nFree Movies at the Open Space:\n\nThe seventh annual festival was held from July 26–31, 2011. There were films at the festival this year from every continent except Antarctica. This was also the first year of Kids Fest on the lawn outside of the newly renovated Lars Hockstad auditorium. Michigan Filmmaker Award went to Sue Marx.\n\nOpening and Closing Night:\n\nUS Indies:\n\nNew Foreign Cinema:\n\nState Theatre Centennial Celebration:\n\n50th Anniversary of \"To Kill a Mockingbird\":\n\nUnion! Our Salute to Public Employees:\n\n100th Birthday Celebration of Roy Rogers:\n\nTribute to Jafar Panahi:\n\nLost Gems:\n\nSpecial Screenings:\n\nKids Fest:\nDangerous Docs:\n\nExperimental Film:\n\nMidnight:\n\nKids Fest:\n\nShorts Programs:\n\nFree Movies at the Open Space:\n\nThe eighth annual festival was held from July 31 - August 5, 2012. Michigan Filmmaker Award went to Winsor McCay.\nOpening & Closing Night and Centerpiece Screenings:\n\nHollywood Sneak Previews:\n\nFriends Only Screenings:\n\nSusan Sarandon Tribute:\n\nWim Wenders Tribute:\n\nState Theatre Centennial Celebration:\n\nOccupy the Cinema!:\n\nWomen:\n\nUS Indies:\n\nNew Foreign Cinema:\nDangerous Docs:\n\nMidnight:\n\nExperimental Film at Dutmers:\n\nSpecial Screenings:\n\nKids Fest:\n\nShorts Programs:\n\nFree Movies at the Open Space:\nThe ninth annual festival was held from July 30 - August 4, 2013. Paul Feig was honored with the Michigan Filmmaker Award and Michael Apted with the Lifetime Achievement Award. Liana Liberato received the Discovery Award and Mark Cousins, Rob Epstein, and Jeffrey Friedman received the Visionary Award. The Festival added a new venue this year by renovating the former Con Foster Museum into a theater that was named Bijou by the Bay which opened in time for the 2013 Traverse City Film Festival. \n\nOpening & Closing Night and Centerpiece Screenings:\n\nDocumentary:\n\nAmerican:\n\nState Theatre Centennial Celebration:\n\nBefore the Code:\n\nMichael Apted Tribute:\n\nTribute to Paul Feig:\n\nForeign:\n\nMidnight:\n\nExperimental Film at Dutmers:\n\nSpecial Screenings:\n\nKids Fest:\n\nFriends Only Screenings:\n\nTCFF Shorts:\n\nFree Movies at the Open Space:\n\nThe tenth annual festival was held from July 29 - August 3, 2014. Barbara Kopple was honored this year with the Mid-Life Achievement Award. The Buzz and Movies on a Boat were added as venues.\n\nOpening & Closing Night and Centerpiece Screenings:\n\nDocumentary:\n\nAmerican:\n\nState Theatre Centennial Celebration:\n\nSpecial Screenings:\n\nKids Fest:\n\nFree Movies at the Open Space:\n\nForeign:\n\nFree Movies at the Buzz:\n\nMidnight:\n\nExperimental Film at Dutmers:\n\nFriends Only Screenings:\n\nTCFF Shorts:\n\nThe eleventh annual festival was held from July 28 - August 2, 2015. Robert Altman received the Visionary Award, Michigan Filmmaker Award went to Roger Corman, and Geraldine Chaplin received the Lifetime Achievement Award. The Woz interactive gallery was a new addition this year.\nOpening & Closing Night and Centerpiece Screenings:\n\nDocumentary:\n\nAmerican:\n\nState Theatre Centennial Celebration:\n\nNative American Matinee:\n\nSpecial Screenings:\n\nKid's Fest:\n\nForeign:\n\nMidnight:\n\nFriends Only Screenings:\n\nRobert Altman Tribute:\n\nRoger Corman:\n\nOrson Welles Centennial:\n\nAvant Garde:\n\nThe Sidebar:\n\nFree Movies at the Open Space:\n\nTCFF Shorts:\n\nThe twelfth annual Traverse City Film Festival was held from July 26–31, 2016. This year’s festival celebrated the historic State Theatre’s centennial year and honored female filmmakers by featuring films directed by women for every selection in the Official US Documentary and Fiction sections.\n\nUS Official Selection: Documentary:\n\nUS Official Selection: Narrative\n\nForeign Official Selection: Documentary:\n\nForeign Official Selection: Narrative\n\nAvant Garde:\n\nFree Movies at The Open Space:\n\nFriends Only Screenings:\n\nJuly 28, 2016- A Day in History:\n\nKid's Fest:\n\nLost Gems of 2015\n\nMen Make Movies- The Struggle Continues\n\nMichiganders Make Movies:\n\nMidnight:\n\nPremieres:\n\nThe Sidebar: Food on Film:\n\nState Theatre Centennial Celebration\n\nSpecial Screenings:\n\n\nTCFF Shorts: \n\nThe thirteenth annual Traverse City Film Festival was held from July 25–30, 2017. This year’s festival celebrated works from filmmakers all around the world, especially those from countries targeted by the US travel ban. 19 directors could not attend the festival due to the ban, but Skyped into festival screenings to discuss their work. Mariska Hargitay, Noel Wells, Leonard Maltin, and Gilbert Gottfried were added to TCFF Walk of Fame this year.\n\nUS Official Selection: Documentary:\n\nUS Official Selection: Narrative\n\nForeign Official Selection: Documentary:\n\nForeign Official Selection: Narrative\n\nAvant Garde:\n\nFree Movies at The Open Space:\n\nFriends Only Screenings:\n\nTravel Ban\n\nStudent Screenings\n\nKid's Fest:\n\nMidnight:\n\nPremieres:\n\nThe Sidebar: Food on Film:\n\nSpecial Screenings:\n\n\nTCFF Shorts: \n\nThe 14th annual Traverse City Film Festival was held from July 31 - August 5, 2018. Jane Fonda, Dick Cavett, and Leon Vitali were added to TCFF Walk of Fame this year, and Nick Offerman was able to Skype in for the screening of Hearts Beat Loud. Jane Fonda received the Lifetime Achievement Award. The TCFF Student U program was launched this year. \n\nUS Official Selection: Documentary\n\nUS Official Selection: Narrative\n\nForeign Official Selection: Narrative\nForeign Official Selection: Documentary\n\nFree Movies at The Open Space:\n\nFriends Only Screenings:\n\nStudent Screenings\n\nKid's Fest:\n\nMidnight:\n\nFood on Film:\n\nSpecial Screenings:\n\n\nTCFF Shorts Programs: \n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2165580", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165580", "title": "Morse, Iowa", "text": "Morse, Iowa\n\nMorse is an unincorporated community in Section 9, Graham Township, Johnson County, Iowa, United States. It is a part of the Iowa City Metropolitan Statistical Area.\n\nMorse was founded in 1871. The first settler was William Jayne. One of the founders was A.W.G. Morse, an early settler in Iowa, who kept journals which have been recently published by Cedar Creek Press. It was once a stop on the Burlington, Cedar Rapids and Northern Railway, later part of the CRI&P. It contains several houses and the Morse Community Club.\n\nEvery year the community hosts a 3 July celebration, which includes a parade, food, and fireworks.\n"}
{"id": "2165581", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165581", "title": "Jamaah Islah Malaysia", "text": "Jamaah Islah Malaysia\n\nPertubuhan Jamaah Islah Malaysia (widely known as JIM) is an NGO in Malaysia. The organisation was officially registered on Friday 27 July 1990 (5 Muharram 1411 of the Islamic calendar) when its registration was accepted by The Registrar of Society, Malaysia. Its women wing, Wanita JIM, was established in 1993.\n\nToday, JIM has 14 state and 54 district branches, with its headquarters in Melawati City Centre, Kuala Lumpur. It has more than 8,000 members all over Malaysia.\n\nJIM's motto is \"\"Bersama Islam Membina Masyarakat\"\", which literally means \"(Together) With Islam (We Are) Building Society\".\n\nHj. Saari Sungib (who was also known as \"Abu 'Urwah\" was the Chairman for the Sponsorship Committee of JIM's establishment. He then became the first president of JIM. Abu 'Urwah held the post of presidency for 10 years starting from 1990 until 1999.\n\nAmong the early leadership of JIM were, Ustaz Alias Osman, Shari Bahri, Zaid Kamaruddin, Dr. Mohamed Hatta Shaharom, Dr. Sahrim Ahmad, Kamaliah Nordin and Aliza Jaafar.\n\nFuziah Salleh was the first Head of JIM's Women wing from 1993 to 1999. Fuziah together with a few other Women activists of JIM had founded this institution. During the early years of JIM, the Women's wing were led by Rawiyah Zakaria, Norainee Kamaruddin, Salwani Mohd Daud and Wan Zarina Wan Zakaria.\n\nAt this stage, To JIM, in uplifting Islam in Malaysia, it has to begin from what is available to the Muslims in the country. Their ethos is controversial, outdated and claims that \"One valuable asset is the Malay supremacy (ketuanan Melayu)\". Rational people will deem that in today's day and age there is no such thing as 'one race' claiming supremacy over another.\n\nAs such, the transformation process, from the current situation to an Islamic one, is believed to have happened in a harmonious way, without disturbing the stability of the status quo (Saari Sungib 1995). Such a process is termed by JIM as homeostasis, a process that originated from the French scientist Claude Bernard to mean, in the social reformation domain, a transformation process that does not change the fundamental strength in the system (Saari Sungib 1997:28) \"To us, it means struggling from within the existing socio-economic and political framework.\"\n\nBut JIM insists that by adopting the homeostasis approach, it means struggling along the Malaysian mainstream based on what it terms asislah (reformation) and tadrij (stages). By islah it means launching reformation programmes at all levels, be it at the national, institutional or infrastructural levels and systems. It involves the continuing education process and the involvementin raising the consciousness and practice of the Malaysian society in activities related to Islamic principles and values that fulfil the objective of the social reformation. By tadrij it means endeavouring a change in Acts and the Federal Constitution as well as the enforcement of civil law towards absolute justice, which naturally will eventually move towards the law of Shariah (Saari Sungib 1995). JIM firmly believes that through such an approach, Malaysia will become an Islamic state in 2010 at the latest, that is ten years earlier than the governments target for a developed, industrial nation as envisaged in the nations Vision 2020. For the above reasons, JIM is not keen in transforming Malaysia into an Islamic state.\n\nTo JIM, as long as the country is being ruled and administered by the Malay supremacy that respects Islam, the question of establishing an Islamic state is no more important. It is from `respecting Islam, JIM believes, that reformation and improvement towards `upholding Islam will happen. Thus, if the Malays are already having a strong influence in leadership and governance, it must not be disturbed and challenged (Saari Sungib 1996:45), hence JIMs non-confrontational approach.\n\nJIM was finally dissolved after 22 years to merge with Pertubuhan IKRAM Malaysia (IKRAM).\n\n"}
{"id": "2165582", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165582", "title": "August Reichensperger", "text": "August Reichensperger\n\nAugust Reichensperger (22 March 180816 July 1895) was a German Catholic politician from the city of Koblenz.\n\nReichensperger studied law and entered government service, becoming counsellor to the court of appeal (\"Appellationsgerichtsrat\") at Cologne in 1849. He was a member of the German parliament at Frankfurt in 1848, when he attached himself to the Right, and of the Erfurt Parliament in 1850, when he voted against the Prussian-dominated union of the German states. From 1850 to 1863 he sat in the Prussian Lower House, from 1867 to 1884 in the Reichstag, and from 1879 onwards also in the Prussian Chamber of Deputies.\n\nOriginally of liberal tendencies, he developed from 1837 onwards ultramontane opinions, founded in 1852 the Catholic group which in 1861 took the name of the Centre Party and became one of its most conspicuous orators. He died at Cologne.\n\nHe published a considerable number of works on art and architecture, including \"Die christlich-germanische Baukunst\" (Trier, 1852, 3rd ed., 1860); \"Fingerzeige auf dem Gebiete der christlichen Kunst\" (Leipzig, 1854); and \"Augustus Pugin, der Neubegründer der christlichen Kunst in England\" (Freiburg, 1877).\n\nHis brother, Peter Reichensperger, was also active in German politics.\n\nAttribution:\n\n"}
{"id": "2165588", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165588", "title": "The Bon Marché", "text": "The Bon Marché\n\nThe Bon Marché, whose French name translates to \"the good market\" or \"the good deal\", was a department store chain launched in Seattle, Washington, United States, in 1890 by Edward Nordhoff. The name was influenced by Le Bon Marché, the noted Parisian retailer. \n\nIn 1929, The Bon Marché was acquired by Hahn Department Stores, itself folded into Allied Stores a few years later. A solid middle-range store, The Bon served largely working-class Seattle. Branches were also added in several Northwestern cities. Among them were Spokane, Tacoma, Yakima, Kennewick, Longview, Walla Walla, Olympia, and Bellingham, Washington, Missoula, Montana, Great Falls, Montana, Idaho Falls, Idaho, Pocatello, Idaho, and Boise, Idaho. Commonly known to customers as The Bon, the company dropped the Marché from their name in the late 1970s before reinstating it by the mid-1980s.\n\nThe Bon was known for their catchy jingles, such as the following to the tune of \"The Banana Boat Song\": \"Day-o, One Day Sale, One day only at The Bon Marché! Save 20, 30, 40 percent (example savings)! Saturday only at the Bon Marche. Prices are down in every department! Saturday only at the Bon Marche!...\" This jingle continued after the name was changed to Bon-Macy's, with the appropriate changes. In the 1960s, The Bon also used some cuts from PAMS' Series 23 jingle package, \"Ani-Magic\" in the 1960s.\n\nAllied Stores was merged into Federated Department Stores in 1989. As part of its national rebranding program, Federated changed the name to Bon-Macy's in 2003. On March 6, 2005, the Bon-Macy's name was eliminated, with the stores renamed as the Macy's Northwest division of Federated. On February 6, 2008, the Macy's Northwest division was merged with the Macy's West division, based in San Francisco.\n\nThe Bon Marché was founded in 1890 by Edward and Josephine Nordhoff, who had moved to Seattle from Chicago. Edward Nordhoff was a German immigrant who had worked for the Louvre Department Store in Paris, which competed with the Maison of Aristide Boucicaut \"Au Bon Marché\" (now part of the LVMH group). Nordhoff moved to Chicago in 1881 and managed a department store in Chicago where he met his wife Josephine, who was a clerk 13 years his junior.\n\nThe Nordhoffs leased a small storefront in modern-day Belltown at 1st Avenue and Cedar Street that cost $25 per month. They invested their entire savings account into merchandise for the store and worked to attract customers away from the city's main retail district. Josephine Nordhoff stocked shelves, kept the books, and cleaned the store; she later learned the Chinook language to wait on Native American customers. To keep customers during the economic panic of the early 1890s, the Nordhoffs stocked sacks of pennies to provide small discounts. The growing success of the store allowed the Nordhoffs to relocate closer to the business district in 1896, leasing an L-shaped building at 2nd Avenue and Pike Street.\n\nIn 1899, at age 40, Edward died of an illness his doctor called phthisis, probably tuberculosis (Phthisis pulmonalis). Josephine remarried two years later. Her new husband, Frank McDermott, joined her and Rudolph Nordhoff, Edward's brother, in operating The Bon Marché. The store entered a period of rapid growth under the management of this trio. Sales increased from $338,000 in 1900 to $8 million in 1923. The store was enlarged twice at its Second and Pike location, in 1902 and 1911. In 1929, The Bon Marché opened at its current downtown location at Third and Pine. That year, the store was sold to Hahn Stores of Chicago, which was acquired by Allied Stores five years later. Both corporations continued to operate the store under its original name. In 1937, The Bon Marché opened its first store outside of Washington through a merger of Boise, Idaho-based C.C. Anderson's into The Bon Marché by Allied Stores. The downtown Boise store remained in operation for more than 70 years, until early 2010, albeit as a Macy's for its final few years.\n\nThe Bon began opening additional stores after World War II. In 1949, it provided the anchor store for one of the world's first modern shopping centers, at Northgate Mall. By 1986, when Campeau Corporation acquired Allied Stores, the Bon Marché was one of the best-known retailers in the Northwest, with about 40 stores throughout the region. In 1978, the company acquired nine stores including Missoula Mercantile of Missoula, Montana. The Missoula store closed as Macy's in 2010.\n\nThe Bon also opened and operated three stores in Utah: The largest one was in Ogden, at the Ogden City Mall. The second was in Layton Hills Mall in Layton, a bedroom community north of Salt Lake City. Third was the smallest store in the entire chain - Logan. This store was located in the Cache Valley Mall. The stores in Ogden and Logan were sold to Lamonts department stores in 1988 because they weren't performing well for the company. Layton's location remained open until 1993, when it was sold to \n\nAfter yet another change in corporate ownership in 1990, the Bon ended up in the hands of Federated Department Stores, a Cincinnati-based company which also owns the Macy's and Bloomingdales chains. In 2001, The Bon Marché debuted a prototype store in Helena, Montana. The store featured everything a typical Bon Marché had plus centralized checkouts.\n\nIn August 2003, Federated \"rebranded\" The Bon Marché, turning it into Bon-Macy's. Federated also tacked Macy's onto the names of four other regional chains under its umbrella (Burdines in Florida, Lazarus in the Midwest, Goldsmith's in Tennessee, and Rich's in the Southeast). Customers had about a year to get used to that change when, in September 2004, Federated announced that all its regional chains would be renamed Macy’s.\n\nAs of 2004, Bon-Macy's consisted of 50 stores in Washington, Oregon, Idaho, Montana, and Wyoming. New store signs, reading simply Macy's, were in place by January 2005. The former flagship store in downtown Seattle retains one small, original example of The Bon Marché signage; this can be seen above the north entrance of the store, at the corner of 4th Ave & Olive Way.\n\nOn February 6, 2008, Terry Lundgren announced the localization strategy and the company's plan to shed 2,550 jobs. This included laying off the Macy's Northwest headquarters and merging all of the former The Bon Marché stores under the Macy's West division.\n\nMacy's sold the upper 6 levels of the flagship store in 2015 to Starwood Capital. That portion of the building was remodeled into a office complex for Amazon.com. Macy's remained on the lower two floors and in the basement. On February 23, 2020, the Macy's closed the store and the building was sold to Starwood.\n\nBeginning in the 1990s, The Bon Marché used an advertising jingle for its \"One Day Sale\" based on the song \"Day-O\" by Harry Belafonte. It was used in television and radio commercials into the 2000s and later entered local pop culture.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2165589", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165589", "title": "Romance of Horn", "text": "Romance of Horn\n\nRomance of Horn is an Anglo-Norman literature \"romans d'aventure\" (\"adventure story\") tale written around 1170 by an author apparently named \"Thomas\". \n\nThe hero, named Horn, is the son of the king Aälof of Suddene (probably somewhere near Devon). Horn is orphaned after the Saracens kill his parents. He and twelve companions then set sail in a boat only to end up on the shores of Brittany, where he grows to manhood and falls in love with the king's daughter Rigmel. There he defends the kingdom from invading Saracens, but the king banishes him to Ireland after he is wrongfully accused of trying to usurp the throne. In Ireland, Horn again proves his heroism and is offered the hand of the king's daughter. Horn refuses it and after some time returns to Brittany to rescue and marry Rigmel.\n\nThe story became the base for one of the earliest Middle English romances King Horn, written around 1225.\n"}
{"id": "2165590", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165590", "title": "Lonely Are the Brave", "text": "Lonely Are the Brave\n\nLonely Are the Brave is a 1962 American Drama Western film adaptation of the Edward Abbey novel \"The Brave Cowboy\". The film was directed by David Miller from a screenplay by Dalton Trumbo.\n\nIt stars Kirk Douglas as cowboy Jack Burns, Gena Rowlands as his best friend's wife and Walter Matthau as a sheriff who sympathizes with Burns but must do his job and chase him down. It also featured an early score by composer Jerry Goldsmith. Douglas felt that this was his favorite film.\n\nJohn W. \"Jack\" Burns (Kirk Douglas) works as a roaming ranch hand much as the cowboys of the old West did, refusing to join modern society. He rejects much of modern technology and carries no identification, such as a driver's license or draft card. He cannot even provide authorities a home address because he just sleeps wherever he finds a place.\n\nAs Burns crosses a highway into a town in New Mexico, his horse Whiskey has a difficult time crossing the road, confused and scared by the traffic. They enter town to visit Jerry (Gena Rowlands). She is the wife of an old friend, Paul Bondi (Michael Kane), who has been jailed for giving aid to illegal immigrants. Jack explains his dislike for a society that restricts a man on where he can or can't go, what he can or can't do.\n\nTo break Bondi out of jail, Burns decides he himself needs to get arrested. After a violent barroom fight against a one-armed man (Bill Raisch) in which he is forced to use only one arm himself, Burns is arrested. When the police decide to let him go, he deliberately punches a cop to get himself re-arrested. He is now facing a probable sentence of a year in jail, which allows him to see Bondi, with a purpose of helping him escape. The town is a sleepy border town and the cops are mostly bored, occasionally dealing with minor offenses. The Sheriff, Morey Johnson (Walter Matthau), has to compel them to pay attention to their duties at times.\n\nJoining Bondi in jail, Burns tries to persuade him to escape. He tells Bondi he couldn't spend a year locked up because he'd probably kill someone. Burns defends Bondi from the attention of sadistic Deputy Sheriff Gutierrez (George Kennedy), who picks Burns as his next target. During the night the inmates saw through one of the jail's bars using two hacksaw blades Burns hid in his boot. The deputy summons Burns in the middle of the night and beats him. Upon returning to his cell, Burns tries to persuade Bondi to join him in escaping, but Bondi, nearing the end of his sentence, and having a family and too much at stake to become a fugitive from the law, decides to remain. Burns breaks out by himself and returns to Bondi's house, where he picks up his horse and some food from Bondi's wife. After the jail break, the Sheriff learns that Burns served in the military during the Korean War, including seven months in a disciplinary training center for striking a superior officer. He also received a Purple Heart and a Distinguished Service Cross with oak leaf clusters for his valor during battle.\n\nBurns heads for the mountains on horseback with the goal of crossing the border into Mexico. The police mount an extensive search, with Sheriff Johnson and his Deputy Sheriff Harry (William Schallert) following him in a jeep. A military helicopter is brought in, and when the aircrew locates Burns, they relay his location to the sheriff. Whiskey is repeatedly spooked by the helicopter so Burns shoots the tail rotor, damaging it and causing the pilot to lose control and crash land.\n\nDeputy Gutierrez also chases Burns. He sees the horse and is preparing to shoot when Burns sneaks up, knocking him unconscious with his rifle butt. Burns leads his horse up impossibly difficult, rocky slopes to escape his pursuers, but the lawmen keep on his trail, forcing him to keep moving. Surrounded on three sides, Burns' horse refuses at first to climb a steep slope. They finally surmount the crest of the Sandia Mountains and escape into the east side of the mountains, a broad stand of heavy timber, with the lawmen shooting at him. The Sheriff acknowledges that Burns has evaded their attempts to capture him. Burns is shot through the ankle during his dash to the timber.\n\nBurns tries to cross Highway 66 in Tijeras Canyon during a heavy rainstorm on Whiskey but the horse gets spooked by the traffic and blinded by the lights. A truck driver strikes Burns and Whiskey as they are attempting to cross the road. The sheriff arrives and, asked by the state police if Burns is the man he has been looking for, says he can't identify him, because he's never seen the man he is looking for up close. Both seriously wounded, Burns is taken away in an ambulance and Whiskey must be euthanized.\n\n\"Lonely Are the Brave\" was filmed after Kirk Douglas read Edward Abbey's novel \"The Brave Cowboy\" and convinced Universal Pictures to produce it with him in the starring role:\n\nIt happens to be a point of view I love. This is what attracted me to the story – the difficulty of being an individual today.\n\nDouglas assembled the cast and crew through his production company, Joel Productions, recruiting ex-blacklisted writer Dalton Trumbo, who had written \"Spartacus\" two years before, to write the screenplay.\n\nThe movie was filmed in the area in and around Albuquerque, New Mexico: the Sandia Mountains, the Manzano Mountains, the Tijeras Canyon and Kirtland Air Force Base.\n\nThe working title for the film was \"The Last Hero,\" but the release title of the film was a matter of contention between Douglas, who wanted to call it \"The Brave Cowboy\" after the novel, and the studio. Douglas wanted the film to open in art houses and build an audience, but Universal chose to market the film as a Western, titling it \"Lonely Are the Brave\" and opening it widely without any particular support. Despite this, the film has a cult following, and is often listed as one of the best Westerns ever made.\n\nMiller directed the picture with a reverent and eloquent feeling for the landscape, complementing the story arc of a lone and principled individual tested by tragedy and the drive of his fiercely independent conscience.\n\n\"Lonely Are the Brave\" premiered in Houston, Texas on 24 May 1962.\n\nPresident John F. Kennedy watched the movie in the White House in November 1962. In his memoir \"Conversations with Kennedy,\" Ben Bradlee wrote, \"Jackie read off the list of what was available, and the President selected the one [film] we had all unanimously voted against, a brutal, sadistic little Western called \"Lonely Are the Brave\".\"\n\nThe score to \"Lonely Are the Brave\" was composed by Jerry Goldsmith. Goldsmith's involvement in the picture was the result of a recommendation by veteran composer Alfred Newman who had been impressed with Goldsmith's score on the television show \"Thriller\" and took it upon himself to recommend Goldsmith to the head of Universal Pictures' music department, despite having never met him.\n\n\nKirk Douglas was nominated for a 1963 BAFTA Award as \"Best Foreign Actor\" for his work in \"Lonely Are the Brave\", and placed third in the Laurel Awards for \"Top Action Performance\". The Motion Picture Sound Editors, USA gave the film a \"Golden Reel Award\" for \"Best Sound Editing\" (Waldon O. Watson, Frank H. Wilkinson, James R. Alexander, James Curtis, Arthur B. Smith), in a tie with \"Mutiny on the Bounty\".\n\nThe film is recognized by American Film Institute in these lists:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2165598", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165598", "title": "Division of Page", "text": "Division of Page\n\nThe Division of Page is an Australian electoral division in the state of New South Wales.\n\nAhead of the 2016 federal election, ABC psephologist Antony Green listed the seat in his election guide as one of eleven which he classed as \"bellwether\" electorates.\n\nThe division is named after the Right Honourable Sir Earle Page, the second leader of the Country Party of Australia and the Prime Minister of Australia after the death of Joseph Lyons in 1939. The division was proclaimed at the redistribution of 11 October 1984, and was first contested at the 1984 federal election.\n\nUnlike most country seats in northern NSW, which are fairly safe for the Nationals, Page has usually been a marginal seat, frequently changing hands between the National Party and the Labor Party. It is one of the few country seats where Labor is usually competitive. It has been a bellwether seat since the 1990 election, having been won by the party winning government at every election.\n\nIt was previously held by Ian Causley, the Deputy Speaker of the Australian House of Representatives. Causley retired at the 2007 election, and Chris Gulaptis, a former Mayor of Maclean, was endorsed as the Nationals' candidate. Labor selected Janelle Saffin, a former member of the New South Wales Legislative Council, who took the seat with a swing of around 8 per cent. Saffin increased her majority in 2010, however was defeated in 2013 by the Nationals' Kevin Hogan, who won with a swing of 6.71 per cent. Saffin ran against Hogan in the 2016 election but did not regain the seat.\n\nHogan moved to the crossbench in 2018 in protest over the spate of leadership spills in the Liberal Party. However, he still supported the Coalition on confidence and supply, and remained a National in good standing. He was reelected as a National at the 2019 election, boosting his majority to 59 percent, the strongest result in the seat's history. He rejoined the Coalition soon afterward.\n\nThe division is located in the far north-east of the state, adjoining the border with Queensland and the Tasman Sea. It includes the towns of Lismore, Casino, Grafton, Tyringham, Bonalbo, Nimbin, Yamba and Iluka. Originally, much of its current territory (including Page's home of Grafton) was located in neighbouring Cowper, which Page represented from 1919 to 1961. In February 2016, Page's borders were extended as far south as Sapphire Beach.\n\n"}
{"id": "2165599", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165599", "title": "Pyramidology", "text": "Pyramidology\n\nPyramidology (or pyramidism) refers to various religious or pseudoscientific speculations regarding pyramids, most often the Giza pyramid complex and the Great Pyramid of Giza in Egypt. Some \"pyramidologists\" also concern themselves with the monumental structures of pre-Columbian America (such as Teotihuacan, the Mesoamerican Maya civilization, and the Inca of the South American Andes), and the temples of Southeast Asia.\n\nSome pyramidologists claim that the Great Pyramid of Giza has encoded within it predictions for the exodus of Moses from Egypt, the crucifixion of Jesus, the start of World War I, the founding of modern-day Israel in 1948, and future events including the beginning of Armageddon; this was discovered by using what they call \"pyramid inches\" to calculate the passage of time where one British inch equals one solar year.\n\nPyramidology reached its peak by the early 1980s. Interest revived when in 1992 and 1993 Rudolf Gantenbrink sent a miniature remote-controlled robot rover, known as Upuaut, up one of the \"air shafts\" in the Queen's Chamber of the Great Pyramid of Giza. Upuaut discovered the shaft closed off by a stone block with decaying copper hooks attached to the outside. In 1994 Robert Bauval published the book \"The Orion Mystery\", attempting to prove that the pyramids on the Giza plateau were built to mimic the stars in the belt of the constellation Orion, a claim that came to be known as the Orion correlation theory.\n\nThe main types of pyramidological accounts involve one or more aspects which include:\n\n\nMetrological pyramidology dates to the 17th century. John Greaves, an English mathematician, astronomer and antiquarian, first took precise measurements of the Great Pyramid at Giza using the best mathematical instruments of the day. His data was published in \"Pyramidographia\" (1646) which theorized a geometric cubit was used by the builders of the Great Pyramid (see: Egyptian royal cubit). While Greave's measurements were objective, his metrological data was later misused by numerologists:\n\nIn the mid-19th century, Friedrich Röber studied various Egyptian pyramids which he linked to the golden ratio. This led pyramidologist John Taylor to theorize in his 1859 book \"The Great Pyramid: Why Was It Built and Who Built It?\" that the Great Pyramid of Giza is related to the golden ratio as well. Although the Great Pyramid's measurements have found to be within the margin of error, the connections between ancient Egypt and the golden ratio have been explained by modern scholars as coincidental, as no other knowledge of the golden ratio is known from before the fifth century BC.\n\nTaylor also proposed that the inch used to build the Great Pyramid was 1/25 of the \"sacred cubit\" (whose existence had earlier been postulated by Isaac Newton). Taylor was also the first to claim that the pyramid was divinely inspired, contained a revelation and was built not by the Egyptians, but instead by the Hebrews, pointing to Biblical passages (Is. 19: 19-20; Job 38: 5-7) to support his theories. For this reason Taylor is often credited as being the \"founder of pyramidology\". Martin Gardner noted:\n\nTaylor influenced the Astronomer Royal of Scotland Charles Piazzi Smyth, F.R.S.E., F.R.A.S., who made numerous numerological calculations on the pyramid and published them in a 664-page book \"Our Inheritance in the Great Pyramid\" (1864) followed by \"Life, and Work in the Great Pyramid\" (1867). These two works fused pyramidology with British Israelism and Smyth first linked the hypothetical pyramid inch to the British Imperial Unit system.\n\nSmyth's theories were later expanded upon by early 20th century British Israelites such as Colonel Garnier (\"Great Pyramid: Its Builder & Its Prophecy\", 1905), who began to theorise that chambers within the Great Pyramid contain prophetic dates which concern the future of the British, Celtic, or Anglo-Saxon peoples. However this idea originated with Robert Menzies, an earlier correspondent of Smyth's. David Davidson with H. Aldersmith wrote \"The Great Pyramid, Its Divine Message\" (1924) and further introduced the idea that Britain's chronology (including future events) may be unlocked from inside the Great Pyramid. This theme is also found in Basil Stewart's trilogy on the same subject: \"Witness of the Great Pyramid\" (1927), \"The Great Pyramid, Its Construction, Symbolism and Chronology\" (1931) and \"History and Significance of the Great Pyramid...\" (1935). More recently a four-volume set entitled \"Pyramidology\" was published by British Israelite Adam Rutherford (released between 1957–1972). British Israelite author E. Raymond Capt also wrote \"Great Pyramid Decoded\" in 1971 followed by \"Study in Pyramidology\" in 1986.\n\nJoseph Seiss was a Lutheran minister who was a proponent of pyramidology. He wrote \"A Miracle in Stone: or, The Great Pyramid of Egypt\" in 1877. His work was popular with contemporary evangelical Christians.\n\nIn 1891 pyramidology reached a global audience when it was integrated into the works of Charles Taze Russell, founder of the Bible Student movement. Russell however denounced the British-Israelite variant of pyramidology in an article called \"The Anglo-Israelitish Question\". Adopting Joseph Seiss's designation that the Great Pyramid of Giza was \"the Bible in stone\" Russell taught that it played a special part in God's plan during the \"last days\" basing his interpretation on Isaiah 19:19-20 which says - \"In that day shall there be an altar (pile of stones) to the Lord in the midst of the land of Egypt, and a pillar (Hebrew \"matstebah\", or monument) at the border thereof to the Lord. And it shall be for a sign, and for a witness unto the Lord of Hosts in the land of Egypt.\" Two brothers, archaeologists John and Morton Edgar, as personal associates and supporters of Russell, wrote extensive treatises on the history, nature, and prophetic symbolism of the Great Pyramid in relation to the then known archaeological history, along with their interpretations of prophetic and Biblical chronology. They are best known for their two-volume work \"Great Pyramid Passages and Chambers\", published in 1910 and 1913.\n\nAlthough most Bible Student groups continue to support and endorse the study of pyramidology from a Biblical perspective, the Bible Students associated with the Watchtower Society, who chose ’Jehovah's Witnesses’ as their new name in 1931, have abandoned pyramidology entirely since 1928.\n\nAnother set of speculations concerning pyramids have centered upon the possible existence of an unknown energy concentrated in pyramidical structures.\n\nPyramid energy was popularized in the early 1970s, particularly by New Age authors such as Patrick Flanagan (\"Pyramid Power: The Millennium Science\", 1973), Max Toth and Greg Nielsen (\"Pyramid Power\", 1974) and Warren Smith (\"Secret Forces of the Pyramids\", 1975). These works focused on the alleged energies of pyramids in general, not solely the Egyptian pyramids. Toth and Nielsen for example reported experiments where \"seeds stored in pyramid replicas germinated sooner and grew higher\".\n\nAuthor Alan F. Alford interprets the entire Great Pyramid in the context of ancient Egyptian religion. Alford takes as his starting point the golden rule that the pharaoh had to be buried in the earth, i.e. at ground level or below, and this leads him to conclude that Khufu was interred in an ingeniously concealed cave whose entrance is today sealed up in the so-called Well Shaft adjacent to a known cave called the Grotto. He has lobbied the Egyptian authorities to explore this area of the pyramid with ground penetrating radar.\n\nThe cult of creation theory also provided the basis for Alford's next idea: that the sarcophagus in the King's Chamber - commonly supposed to be Khufu's final resting place - actually enshrined iron meteorites. He maintains, by reference to the Pyramid Texts, that this iron was blasted into the sky at the time of creation, according to the Egyptians' geocentric way of thinking. Alford says the King's Chamber, with its upward inclined dual 'airshafts', was built to capture the magic of this mythical moment.\n\nAlford's most speculative idea is that the King's Chamber generated low frequency sound via its 'airshafts', the purpose being to re-enact the sound of the earth splitting open at the time of creation.\n\nVarious spiritual organizations in India have used pyramids as a means to promote theories of their potency. Numerous papers have been published in an Indian science journal called the \"Indian Journal of Traditional Knowledge\" by the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research.\n\nLewis Spence in his \"An Encyclopaedia of Occultism\" (1920) summed up the earliest of pseudoarcheological claims on the ancient Egyptian pyramids as follows:\n\n...in the 1880s, Ignatius Donnelly had suggested that the Great Pyramid had been built by the descendants of the Atlanteans. That idea was picked up in the 1920s by Manly Palmer Hall who went on to suggest that they were the focus of the ancient Egyptian wisdom schools. Edgar Cayce built upon Hall's speculations.\n\nIgnatius Donnelly and later proponents of the hyperdiffusionist view of history claimed that all pyramid structures across the world had a common origin. Donnelly claimed this common origin was in Atlantis, while Grafton Elliot Smith claimed Egypt, writing: \"Small groups of people, moving mainly by sea, settled at certain places and there made rude imitations of the Egyptian monuments of the Pyramid Age.\"\n\nSeveral proponents of ancient astronauts claim that the Great Pyramid of Giza was constructed by extraterrestrial beings, or influenced by them (e.g., through their advanced technology). Proponents include Erich von Däniken, Robert Charroux, W. Raymond Drake, and Zecharia Sitchin. According to Erich Von Däniken, the Great Pyramid has advanced numerological properties which could not have been known to the ancient Egyptians and so must have been passed down by extraterrestrials: \"...the height of the pyramid of Cheops, multiplied by a thousand million—98,000,000 miles—corresponds approximately to the distance between the Earth and the sun\".\nRobert Bauval and Graham Hancock (1996) have both suggested that the 'ground plan' of the three main Egyptian pyramids was physically established in c. 10,500 BC, but that the pyramids were built around 2,500 BC. This theory was based on their \ninitial claims regarding the alignment of the Giza pyramids with Orion are later joined with speculation about the age of the Great Sphinx.\n\nLinked to the pseudoarchaeological ancient astronaut theory and Orion correlation theory are related claims that the Great Pyramid was constructed by the use of an advanced lost technology. Proponents of this theory often link this hypothetical advanced technology to extraterrestrials but also Atlanteans, Lemurians or a legendary lost race. Notable proponents include Christopher Dunn and David Hatcher Childress. Graham Hancock, in his book \"Fingerprints of the Gods\", assigned the 'ground plan' of the three main Egyptian pyramids, in his theory of an advanced progenitor civilization which possessed advanced technology.\n\nIn 1880, the renowned Egyptologist Flinders Petrie went to Egypt to perform new measurements of the Great Pyramid, and wrote that he found that the pyramid was several feet smaller than previously believed by John Taylor and Charles Piazzi Smyth. Flinders therefore claimed that the hypothetical pyramid inch of the pyramidologists had no basis in truth, and published his results in \"The Pyramids and Temples of Gizeh\" (1883), writing: \"there is no authentic example, that will bear examination, of the use or existence of any such measure as a 'Pyramid inch,' or of a cubit of 25.025 British inches.\" Proponents of the pyramid inch, especially British Israelites, responded to Petrie's discoveries and claimed to have found flaws in them. Petrie refused to respond to these criticisms, claiming he had disproved the pyramid inch and compared continuing proponents to \"flat earth believers\":\n\nIn 1930, Belgian Egyptologists Jean Capart and Marcelle Werbrouck stated that \"with the help of mathematicians and often mingling with them mystics have invented what might be called the 'religion of the pyramids'\". Six years later, Adolf Erman complained of the fact that certain theories were still proposed, even though a century of research would have long since debunked all of them.\n\nOn 24 January 1937, Gustave Jéquier chose to expose his criticism of the pyramidology assumptions on a mass media, the newspaper \"Gazette de Lausanne\", lamenting that \"these speculations didn't deserve the resonance they have had\" and warning the audience against \"prophecies incurred by arguments masked as science, when the very foundations of these reasonings, cleverly disguised, are nothing but inaccurate news or simple hypotheses and that the whole argument is clearly tendentious\".\n\nThe term \"pyramidiot\" is said to have been coined by Leonard Cottrell, whose 1956 book \"The Mountains of Pharaoh\" included a chapter entitled \"The Great Pyramidiot\" about Piazzi Smyth's theories.\n\nIn 1964 Barbara Mertz, reflecting the views of the scientific establishment, reported another term for pyramidologists:\n\nThe Toronto Society for Psychical Research organized a research team consisting of Allan Alter (B.Sc. Phm) and Dale Simmons (Dip. Engr. Tech) to explore claims made in Pyramid Power literature that pyramids could better preserve organic matter. Extensive tests showed that pyramid containers \"are no more effective than those of other shapes in preserving and dehydrating organic material.\"\n\nFrench Egyptologist and architect Jean-Philippe Lauer undertook a scientific analysis of several pyramidologists' claims by reconstructing their reasoning step-by-step and redoing their mathematical calculations. In 1974, he concluded that those intuitions, though fascinating and made by people in good faith, have little to no regard to archaeology needs, if not to any other science at all.\n\n\nFootnotes\nCitations\n"}
{"id": "2165605", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165605", "title": "2001 Bangladeshi general election", "text": "2001 Bangladeshi general election\n\nGeneral elections were held in Bangladesh on 1 October 2001. The 300 single-seat constituencies of the Jatiya Sangsad were contested by 1,935 candidates representing 54 parties and including 484 independents. The elections were the second to be held under the caretaker government concept, introduced in 1996.\n\nThe result was a win for the Four Party Alliance of the Bangladesh Nationalist Party (BNP), Jamaat-e-Islami Bangladesh, Jatiya Party (Manju) and Islami Oikya Jote. BNP leader Khaleda Zia becoming Prime Minister.\n\nThe Seventh Parliament headed by Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina was dissolved on 13 July 2001, having completed its designated 5-year term (the first parliamentary administration to ever do so) and power was transferred to the caretaker government headed by Justice Latifur Rahman.\n\nIn 2001, the 345 members of the Jatiya Sangsad consisted of 300 seats directly elected by first-past-the-post voting in single-member constituencies, and 45 seats reserved for women. The reserved seats were distributed based on the national vote share.\n\nThe international and national monitors declared the polling free and fair even though the Awami League alleged massive vote rigging by the BNP. The accusation was denied by the Chief Election Commissioner, who declared the charges \"baseless\". International observers, from the European Union, the United Nations and the Carter Center of former US President Jimmy Carter, also praised the heavy voter turnout, which was 75%.\n\nThe BNP were the clear winners in terms of seats, winning a secure majority with 193 (of 300) seats. BNP's allied parties Jamaat-e-Islami Bangladesh, Jatiya Party (Manju) and Islami Oikya Jote also won a combined 23 seats, bringing the alliance total to 216 seats. As a result of the first-past-the-post voting system in Bangladesh, Awami League only secured 62 seats, despite a difference in popular vote share of only ≈1.4%. Voter turnout was very high at 75%.\n\nOf the 300 directly elected seats, only seven were won by women. This parliament marked an increase in the number of reserved seats for women (which are in addition to the 300 directly elected seats) from 30 to 45. Of these 45 reserved seats, 36 were awarded to BNP.\n\n<onlyinclude>\n</onlyinclude>\n\nThere were reports of violence targeting minority communities in the immediate wake of the elections.\n\nWith a clear majority BNP leader Khaleda Zia was invited to form a government and on 10 October 2001, was sworn in as Prime Minister and formed her Cabinet, which included members of her allied parties. The first sitting of the Eighth Parliament occurred on 28 October 2001 with Jamiruddin Sircar as its new Speaker.\n\nZia's administration completed a full five-year term, running from 28 October 2001 to 27 October 2006. However, disputes over the selection of a caretaker government, with disagreements between the parties over their neutrality, led to the 2006–08 Bangladeshi political crisis, which eventually resulted in military intervention. New elections would not be held until December 2008.\n"}
{"id": "2165610", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165610", "title": "Good News (novel)", "text": "Good News (novel)\n\nGood News is a 1980 novel by Edward Abbey. \"Good News\" is Abbey's only work of science fiction and can be considered a distant sequel to The Brave Cowboy.\n\nIt is set in a Phoenix, Arizona of the near future after the economy and government have collapsed. Small bands of people (including Jack Burns, previously from \"The Brave Cowboy\") are trying to live freely, but a would-be military dictator has other plans and is trying to set up a dictatorship using Phoenix as his base.\n\nThe book was first published in October 20th 1980 with 242 pages and later reissued in January 30th 1991 with 256 pages by Plume.\n"}
{"id": "2165621", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165621", "title": "Trinity bristle snail", "text": "Trinity bristle snail\n\nThe Trinity bristle snail (\"Monadenia setosa\") is a species of medium-sized land snail, a terrestrial pulmonate gastropod mollusc in the family Monadeniidae.\n\nThe Trinity bristle snail attains a body length of approximately 2.5 cm. It is brown or chestnut-colored and covered with minuscule, translucent bristles, which give the species its common name.\n\nThis species is endemic to California. This snail is found in northwestern Trinity County, along the Trinity River, up some of its tributaries and into the Corral Bottom area. It has a healthy population within its territory. It likes cool, wet, shady riparian zones, and prefers areas with a deciduous understory.\n\nThe Trinity bristle snail is dependent on cool, moist conditions, and therefore it is only active at night. It spends warmer parts of the day stuck to shady areas on tree trunks, and in especially warm parts of the summer it may not move for days. When conditions are cool enough it feeds on lichen and the tender parts of green plants. The snail has a lifespan of over ten years, and may not reach full size for nearly that long. It is subject to predation by beetles and possibly rodents.\n"}
{"id": "2165622", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165622", "title": "Neophile", "text": "Neophile\n\nNeophile or Neophiliac, a term popularised by cult writer Robert Anton Wilson, is a personality type characterized by a strong affinity for novelty. The term was used earlier by Christopher Booker in his book The Neophiliacs (1969), and by J. D. Salinger in his short story Hapworth 16, 1924 (1965).\n\nNeophiles/Neophiliacs have the following basic characteristics:\n\n\nA neophile is distinct from a revolutionary in that anyone might become a revolutionary if pushed far enough by the reigning authorities or social norms, whereas neophiles are revolutionaries by nature. Their intellectual abhorrence of tradition and repetition usually bemoans a deeper emotional need for constant novelty and change. The meaning of neophile approaches and is not mutually exclusive to the term visionary, but differs in that a neophile actively seeks first-hand experience of novelty rather than merely pontificating about it.\n\nThe opposite of a neophile is a neophobe; a person with an aversion to novelty and change. Wilson observes that neophobes tend to regard neophiles, especially extreme ones, with fear and contempt, and to brand them with titles such as \"witch,\" \"satanist,\" \"heretic,\" etc. He also speculates in his Prometheus Rising series of books that the industrial revolution and related enlightenment represents one of the first periods of history in which neophiles were a dominant force in society. Neophiles accelerate change because they like it that way.\n\nOpen-source advocate and programmer Eric S. Raymond observes that this personality is especially prevalent in certain fields of expertise; in business, these are primarily computer science and other areas of high technology. Raymond speculates that the rapid progress of these fields (especially computers) is a result of this. A neophile's love of novelty is likely to lead them into subjects outside of the normal areas of human interest. Raymond observes a high concentration of neophiles in or around what he calls \"leading edge subcultures\" such as science fiction fandom, neo-paganism, transhumanism, etc. as well as in or around nontraditional areas of thought such as fringe philosophy or the occult. Raymond observes that most neophiles have roving interests and tend to be widely well-read.\n\nThere is more than one type of neophile. There are social neophiles (the extreme social butterfly), intellectual neophiles (the revolutionary philosopher and the technophile), and physical/kinetic neophiles (the extreme sports enthusiast). These tendencies are not mutually exclusive, and might exist simultaneously in the same individual.\n\nThe word \"neophilia\" has particular significance in Internet and hacker culture. \"The New Hacker's Dictionary\" gave the following definition to neophilia:\n\nThe trait of being excited and pleased by novelty. Common among most hackers, SF fans, and members of several other connected leading-edge subcultures, including the pro-technology 'Whole Earth' wing of the ecology movement, space activists, many members of Mensa, and the Discordian/neo-pagan underground (see geek). All these groups overlap heavily and (where evidence is available) seem to share characteristic hacker tropisms for science fiction, music.\n\nResearch has uncovered a possible link between certain predisposition to some kind of neophilia and increased levels of the enzyme monoamine oxidase A.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2165625", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165625", "title": "Ithaca High School (Ithaca, New York)", "text": "Ithaca High School (Ithaca, New York)\n\nIthaca High School (IHS) is a public high school in Ithaca, New York, USA. It is part of the Ithaca City School District, and has an enrollment of approximately 1,675. The school is located at 1401 North Cayuga Street in the north end of Ithaca, near Stewart Park, Cayuga Lake, and Ithaca Falls. The current principal is Jason Trumble.\n\nIn 2017, \"U.S. News & World Report\" ranked IHS as the best high school in Central New York, 48th in New York State, and 401st nationwide.\n\nIthaca High School was founded in 1875 as the successor to the Ithaca Academy, a private school that had operated since the 1820s. In the late 19th and early 20th century, the school had a significant side business as a tuition-charging college preparatory school; then-Cornell University President Jacob Gould Schurman called it \"one of the finest in the Northeast.\" \n\nA new building for the high school on the site of the former academy was built in 1885; that building burned on February 14, 1912. \n\nThe renowned architect William Henry Miller, who designed many buildings at Cornell, designed the new building, which the high school occupied from 1915 to 1960. That building was later used as DeWitt Junior High school for a number of years and was saved from demolition by the local architect William Downing. Downing converted the building into an eclectic collection of shops, offices, studios, apartments, and restaurants known as the Dewitt Mall. The nationally renowned Moosewood Restaurant is also in the mall.\n\nThe new campus, which opened in 1960, is at 1401 North Cayuga Street in the north end of Ithaca, near Stewart Park, Cayuga Lake, and Ithaca Falls. Designed by the architecture firm Perkins and Will, it is a California-style campus, with 11 mostly interconnected buildings spread across a fairly wide area. Some have praised the campus as being architecturally innovative, while others have criticized it as inefficient and inappropriate to Ithaca's climate (notably as students routinely travel outdoors between classes, out of necessity or for a more direct route). The campus includes the Frank R. Bliss Gymnasium, the 840-seat Claude L. Kulp Auditorium and York Lecture Hall. Most of the Ithaca City School District's administrative offices and the Board of Education building are located on the same campus, as are the offices of the ICSD employee unions. The building is one of the few schools that use deep lake water cooling (from Cayuga Lake) for air conditioning.\n\nFrom 2007 to 2009, additions were built that doubled the size of Kulp Auditorium, adding separate rehearsal, practice and office spaces for the orchestra, choir and band, as well as create a large fitness center and competition gymnasium .\n\nLocal demographics have resulted in continuing socio-economic tensions:\n\nThe [Ithaca] schools have children of professors at Cornell University and Ithaca College, who would not be rattled by a dinner-table chat about quantum physics. They also have students from Ithaca's poorer streets and from the hardscrabble farms and mobile homes in the villages that surround this Finger Lakes city.\n\n\"We have kids who live on dirt floors and go outside to the restroom and come to school to take a shower, and we have Carl Sagan's kids,\" said Peter Romani, a history teacher at Ithaca High School.\n\nMore recently, the school experienced difficulties in 2004 and 2007. In December 2007, over 200 Ithaca residents signed a petition calling for principal Joseph M. Wilson to be fired after what they believed was Wilson's mishandling of a series of racially charged incidents.\n\nThe mean SAT score in 2003 was 1169, compared to 1026 nationally. Typically, about 70% of students matriculate at four-year colleges and 20% at two-year colleges following graduation. The school traditionally sends a very large number of graduates to nearby Cornell University; from 2000 to 2004, an average of 37.6 students per class (slightly less than ten percent) matriculated at Cornell immediately following graduation.\n\nNineteen advanced placement courses are offered:\n\nThere are 140 professional staff members, including about 120 classroom teachers, and over 85% of the faculty has a master's degree or higher. Two Ithaca High School math teachers received the Edyth May Sliffe Award, given annually to about 25 math teachers nationally: Dave Bock (twice, in 1990 and 1993), and Roselyn Teukolsky (in 1991).\n\nThe school is part of the Southern Tier Athletic Conference (STAC). Athletic teams compete as the \"Little Red\", in counterpoint to the \"Big Red\" of nearby Cornell University. Ithaca High School has won five New York State Class A boys’ ice hockey championships (1984, 1987, 1994, 2000, 2007), as well as four Upstate New York Girls' Hockey League championships (2001, 2002, 2003, 2011). The Ithaca women's varsity swim team has had more than two decades of consecutive Section IV titles, several unofficial state titles, and countless undefeated seasons. Since 1989, the team has lost only one dual meet in 1998. The team has been coached by Roy Staley through all of these successful seasons. The Boys' Lacrosse Program has established itself as a Section IV, Class A powerhouse, winning five straight sectional championships from 2000 to 2005 and often finding itself in the state and national rankings. Little Reds lacrosse team has reached the Section IV, Class A finals in both 2010 and 2011, losing to Fairport and Farmingdale programs respectively, losses which helped to solidify its reputation as a local lacrosse hub in upstate New York and a dominant program for years to come. The boys' and girls' track and field program was undefeated in dual meets for eight years until 2005, when defeated by 70-71 by Vestal High School. The program turns out state competitors regularly in both cross country and track and field. In 2005, it produced two state and federation champions, Drew Hilker (pentathlon) and Peter Thompson (pole vault). In addition to offering most traditional school sports Ithaca offers a large array of private sports teams which are mostly made up of Ithaca High School Students. Notable among these teams are Cascadilla Boat Club, which has been undefeated in section III championships for its entire existence, and Head Over Heels Gymnastics that has had multiple state, regional, and national winners.\n\nFrom 1955 to 1967, the Ithaca High School Band received national recognition for its musicianship and innovation under the direction of Frank Battisti. During this time, the band commissioned 24 new compositions (many by Pulitzer Prize winners and some now important wind ensemble pieces), performed at locations such as the Eastman School of Music, the New York World's Fair and Rockefeller Center, and played with many guest soloists and conductors including Benny Goodman and Doc Severinsen. A book, \"One Band that Took a Chance\" by Brian Norcross, was later published about the IHS band of this era. On May 7, 2009, Ithaca High School held a 50th Anniversary concert in honor of Frank Battisti and the 1959 commission of Warren Benson's piece \"Night Song\", which included a new commission by the local composer Gregory B. Rudgers, \"Night Fantasy\".\n\nThe Ithaca High School Orchestra, meanwhile, is one of the oldest high school orchestras in the country, having been established in 1904. It celebrated its 100th anniversary with a celebration and concert that included a newly commissioned work entitled Enlightened City by composer Robert Paterson.\n\nThe Ithaca High School newspaper, the \"Tattler\", founded in 1892, is one of the oldest high school student newspapers in the country. At times in its history (in the 1960s and 1970s, as well as more recently beginning in 2005) it has been involved in controversy over claims of unconstitutional school censorship. Paul Wolfowitz and Stephen L. Carter were both editors for the paper during their time at Ithaca High School.\n\nIHS has in recent years had very high administrator turnover. Since 1988, fourteen principals have passed through IHS, and only one has stayed for longer than three years.\n\nIn February 2008, principal Joseph M. Wilson was granted tenure in return for agreeing to resign at the end of the 2008–2009 school year. Wilson had been the subject of considerable controversy in his time at IHS. In 2005 he was sued in federal court for the alleged censorship of the school newspaper, The Tattler; the case was ultimately ruled on by the Second Circuit Court of Appeals. In December 2007, over 200 Ithaca residents signed a petition calling for him to be fired after what they believed was Wilson's mishandling of a series of racially charged incidents in the school.\n\nIn August 2014, Jarrett Powers announced he was leaving to become Superintendent of the Union Springs Central School District. He was replaced by longtime teacher and coach Jason Trumble.\n\nThe following is an incomplete list of notable Ithaca High School alumni:\n\n"}
{"id": "2165630", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165630", "title": "River blackfish", "text": "River blackfish\n\nThe river blackfish (\"Gadopsis marmoratus\") is a freshwater fish endemic to the temperate waters of south-eastern Australia. It is found from southern Queensland through to central Victoria, including in the Murray-Darling river system. It is also found in some eastern and southern flowing coastal rivers. Found primarily in upland and \"midland\" habitats, though early records of fish fauna suggest it was originally far more extensively distributed and was found in some lowland habitats as well. Originally, river blackfish co-inhabited many of its lowland and \"midland\" habitats with species such as Murray cod and golden perch, and its upland habitats with species such as trout cod and Macquarie perch. It is a popular angling fish in some parts of its range.\n\nRiver blackfish are elongated with a rounded body, distinct snout and large mouth, and small to moderate sized eyes. The caudal fin, soft dorsal fin and anal fin are rounded. The spiny dorsal fin is low, weak and blends into the soft dorsal fin. Colour varies but is usually either yellow or green with dark green mottling, or a very dark purple/black colour.\n\nIt is an ambush predator that takes crayfish, shrimp, small fish and aquatic insects. It is strongly nocturnal.\n\nMurray-Darling river blackfish show a maximum size of around 30 cm and < 0.8 kg, with larger specimens from coastal drainages reaching up to 60 cm (Gellibrand River).\n\nIt is a highly underrated sportsfish, particularly the Southern form (see below). It is fast and strong, and has been shown to take flies and lures, even surface lures, in addition to the more usual worm baits. There is an unofficial world record caught by Piotr Pomorski on a WildBait Lure, in Victoria Australia that measured 70 cm in length.\n\nEndemic to south-eastern Australia, river blackfish like many Murray-Darling native fishes have managed to cross the Great Dividing Range via natural river capture events and so are found in south-flowing coastal rivers and streams in the eastern half of Victoria. These fish are now often referred to as southern river blackfish. This population shows a far great maximum size of 60 cm or more and about . Specimens this large were likely to be very old — 30 years or more — and are rarely seen now. Southern river blackfish may be a separate species. The taxonomy does not yet reflect to this.\n\nRiver blackfish continue the trend present in Murray-Darling native fish of speciating into primarily lowland species and upland species, with the upland species being in this case the two-spined blackfish, \"Gadopsis bispinosus\". The two-spined blackfish is a more specialised upland inhabitant, and is found in the strongly flowing, cobble-bottomed sub-alpine rivers and streams of northeast Victoria, southeast New South Wales, and the Australian Capital Territory. While the split may be between lowland (or midland) and upland, there are overlaps in their range, and river blackfish are found in many upland habitats. There are also indications river blackfish populations in the southern and northern halves of the Murray-Darling river system may represent two distinct species or sub-species, with genetic and other differences.\n\nThe \"Gadopsis\" blackfish and the \"Maccullochella\" cods (such as the Murray cod, \"Maccullochella peelii\") are strongly similar. There are some grounds for believing blackfish may be a smaller version of Murray cod, inhabiting similar niches but in habitats are too small for Murray cod (having said this, their distributions originally overlapped substantially), and there are grounds for believing that blackfish and Murray cod have drawn heavily on common genes at the family level. FishBase, for instance, has scrapped the family Gadopsidae and listed the blackfishes as members of the temperate perch family, \"Percichthyidae\". A mitochondrial DNA study has confirmed a relationship between the Blackfish and the Percichthyidae but the exact relationship was not resolved in that study. Further study is needed to resolve the relationship between the blackfish and the \"Percichthyidae\". In addition, molecular studies have supported the view that \"G. marmoratus\" is a species complex of five different species, these include a species in the Murray-Darling Basin and four species in coastal freshwaters. One of these forms from Victoria has been named as \"Gadopsis gracilis\". \n\nBlackfish have a recruitment method similar to Murray cod, but with more specialisation to upland habitats. Blackfish spawn in spring and lay a very limited number of large, adhesive eggs (<1000) on sunken timber (snags), or in the case of two-spined blackfish on submerged rocks. Similar to Murray cod, the male guards the eggs until they hatch. Upon hatching the larval blackfish are, uniquely, attached to their ruptured egg case by a tether until the yolk sac is largely used and the larvae are ready to commence exogenous feeding. (This unique structure is presumably an adaptation to upland river/stream habitats, to prevent larvae being swept away in currents.)\n\nBlackfish have declined very seriously due to overfishing, stream siltation and snag removal, and predation and competition by introduced species, particularly introduced trout species. Recent bushfires in south-eastern Australia (2003–2006) have filled many blackfish rivers with large quantities of silt, and infilled the interstices (\"gaps\") between larger rocks that blackfish normally use as a refuge from predatory alien trout species. The presumed result will be increased levels of alien trout predation on blackfish, and the long-term future of blackfish species is now of some concern. The blackfish species are very low in fecundity, slow-growing and long-lived, and have low migratory tendencies, so are extremely vulnerable to overfishing and localised extinctions.\n\nRiver Blackfish are a protected species in South Australia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2165633", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165633", "title": "Helen Kelesi", "text": "Helen Kelesi\n\nHelen Kelesi (born 15 November 1969) is a former professional tennis player from Canada. She was coached by her father Milan Kelesi.\n\n\"Hurricane Helen\", as the Canadian press dubbed her for her fiery demeanour, achieved a career high WTA ranking of world no. 13 (November 1989), and was a regular fixture in the top 25 from 1986 to 1991. She won singles titles in two tour events, the 1986 Japan Open and the 1988 Citta de Taranto, and at the French Open, she was a quarter-finalist in 1988 (losing to Gabriela Sabatini) and 1989 (losing to Mary-Joe Fernandez). During her time on the WTA Tour, Kelesi recorded wins over Arantxa Sanchez-Vicario, Conchita Martinez, Jana Novotna, Manuela Maleeva-Fragniere, Helena Sukova and Pam Shriver.\n\nKelesi's game was characterized by aggressive baseline play, with a powerful top-spin forehand and two-handed backhand. She also retrieved well and could play defensively when needed. These skills meant that Kelesi was particularly good on clay and hard-court surfaces.\n\nKelesi was a Canadian Federation Cup team member from 1986 to 1993. She was Tennis Canada singles player of the year four times (1986, 1987, 1989, and 1990).\n\nKelesi's professional career came to an end in 1995 when a brain tumour the size of a tennis ball was discovered following months of headaches, dizziness and vision problems. Numerous operations followed over the years, Kelesi successfully recovered and began coaching young children in Canada in the late 1990s. She also became a part-time tennis journalist and commentator.\n\n"}
{"id": "2165638", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165638", "title": "Francisco Rodríguez (President of Panama)", "text": "Francisco Rodríguez (President of Panama)\n\nFrancisco Antonio Rodríguez Poveda (born 24 November 1938 in Herrera Province) was provisional President of Panama in 1989.\n\nRodríguez became provisional President of Panama on 1 September 1989 following resignation of Manuel Solís Palma. He stood down on 20 December 1989 following the United States invasion of Panama and the arrest of de facto leader Manuel Antonio Noriega. He was one of a series of Noriega's puppet rulers, nicknamed the \"Kleenex presidents\" in Panama due to their \"disposability\". In 1994, he was pardoned by President Guillermo Endara for any crimes committed during the Noriega years.\n\nRodríguez belonged to the Democratic Revolutionary Party (PRD). \n\n \n"}
{"id": "2165639", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165639", "title": "Bend of the River", "text": "Bend of the River\n\nBend of the River is a 1952 American Western film directed by Anthony Mann and starring James Stewart, Arthur Kennedy, Julie Adams, and Rock Hudson. Based on the 1950 novel \"Bend of the Snake\" by Bill Gulick, the film is about a tough cowboy who risks his life to deliver confiscated supplies to homesteaders after gold is discovered in the region. \"Bend of the River\" was filmed on location in Sandy River, Mount Hood, the Columbia River and Timberline, Oregon. This is the second Western film collaboration between Anthony Mann and James Stewart.\n\nIn 1866, remorseful former border raider Glyn McLyntock (James Stewart) is scouting for a wagon train of settlers to Oregon. While he is checking the trail ahead, he rescues Emerson Cole (Arthur Kennedy) from being lynched for stealing a horse. Cole, who says the horse is \"not exactly stolen,\" thinks he has heard of McLyntock, but does not pursue the subject. One of the pioneers in the wagon train is the eligible Laura Baile (Julie Adams). That night, they are attacked by five Shoshone Indians and Laura is wounded by an arrow. McLyntock and Cole go out to deal with the Shoshones and Cole saves McLyntock's life in the process. McLyntock welcomes Cole, but Jeremy Baile (Jay C. Flippen), the leader of the settlers, does not trust Cole and does not believe that a man can change from bad to good.\n\nWhen they reach Portland, Oregon, Laura remains there to recover. Cole also leaves the party saying that he wants to go to California to find gold. The rest, including McLyntock, go on to establish a settlement in the wilderness after making arrangements with a man named Tom Hendricks (Howard Petrie) for the supplies they need for the winter to be sent on later (\"the first week in September\"). That night, they have a big party and meet a professional gambler named Trey Wilson (Rock Hudson).\n\nWith winter fast approaching and the supplies at least six weeks late, they begin to worry when the food runs low. McLyntock and Jeremy go back to Portland to investigate. They find that a gold rush has inflated prices enormously. Laura and Cole are working for Hendricks and have no intention of going to the settlement. Jeremy is not happy about his daughter being Cole's girl. Meanwhile, Hendricks has decided to sell their supplies for a much higher price to a mining camp. McLyntock secretly hires some men to load the supplies to take back to the settlement, but Hendricks finds out, instigating a shootout. Cole and Trey both side with McLyntock. When they are pursued, McLyntock sets up an ambush. Hendricks and some of his gang are killed, and the rest are driven off.\n\nOn the way to the settlement, some of the miners show up and offer an exorbitant sum for the supplies. The hired men begin thinking about commandeering the wagon train. Cole cannot resist the temptation of all that money and double-crosses his friend, but does not kill him. That proves to be a fatal mistake. McLyntock tracks them down and retakes the supplies with the assistance of Jeremy, Laura, and Trey. Cole brings some miners, but they are beaten off in a climactic gunfight at a river. McLyntock fights and kills Cole, and the current takes his body away. At the end, they reach the settlement with the supplies and it is apparent that Laura and McLyntock are now a couple.\n\nJames Stewart, best known for his down-to-earth persona, established another persona along with director Anthony Mann with the 1950 Western film \"Winchester '73\". This new Stewart persona was more violent, edgier and more disillusioned, but a persona that was still likable. This collaboration included eight films, five of them Westerns. Along with \"Winchester '73\" and \"Bend of the River\", these included \"The Naked Spur\" (1953), \"The Far Country\" (1954) and \"The Man From Laramie\" (1955). This was the second of the Western collaborations between them.\n\nThe film was written by Borden Chase, who had co-written \"Winchester '73\" and would write \"The Far Country\". It was based on the 1950 novel \"Bend of the Snake\", by Bill Gulick.\n\nIn Great Britain in the 1950s, the movie was known under the title \"Where the River Bends\". Under this name the film was given a multi-page review section in F. Maurice Speed's \"The Western Film Annual\" for the 1952 edition of his book.\n\nCharacter actor Arthur Kennedy was cast as Emerson Cole. Kennedy was confined to shooting riding scenes until his knee healed, after spraining it while filming the fight scene with Jay C. Flippen, who plays Jeremy Baile, the leader of the Baile family. Julie Adams was cast as Laura while Lori Nelson was cast as her sister Marjie. Adams is best known for her role as Kay Lawrence in the 1954 horror film \"Creature from the Black Lagoon\" and Nelson played the female lead role in the 1955 sequel \"Revenge of the Creature\", which were both directed by Jack Arnold. Rock Hudson played Trey Wilson, a professional gambler.\n\nThe film was filmed in Mount Hood, Sandy River and Timberline, Oregon.\n\nTo promote the film before it was released, a 3.6 mile steamboat race on the Columbia River was staged on January 24, 1952, featuring the sternwheeler \"Henderson\" (which had been used in the film, and which had several of the stars onboard) versus the newer sternwheeler \"Portland\". The \"Henderson\" won the race.\n\nThe film first released on February 13, 1952. The film grossed about $3 million. When first released, the film received poor reviews, but has since then gained more critical acclaim and is recognized as a great Western.\n\n\"The New York Times\", in its 1952 review said the film \"keeps you guessing as to which of its male stars is going to turn out 'good' and which 'bad' and of the cast, the paper's reviewer commented \"So it comes down to farmers and miners and Mr. Stewart versus Mr. Kennedy. Both actors are first-rate performers when it comes to slinging guns and giving a general impression of cryptic personalities. Jay C. Flippen is good as the top farmer, Julia Adams and Lori Nelson make svelte farm girls and Rock Hudson is ornamental as a gentleman gambler who strings along. We are sorry to note that Stepin Fetchit is back to play a clownish stereotype, but the scenery is good in Technicolor and the fightin' is frequent and bold.\"\n\nStewart took a percentage of the profits. In 1953, William Goetz estimated that Stewart had earned $750,000 from the film.\n\nThe movie holds a perfect 100% rating on Rotten Tomatoes.\n\nIn 2008, \"Bend of the River\" was nominated for AFI's Top 10 Western Films list.\n\n"}
{"id": "2165644", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165644", "title": "Two-spined blackfish", "text": "Two-spined blackfish\n\nThe two-spined blackfish (\"Gadopsis bispinosus\") is a species of temperate perch endemic to Australia.\n\nIt is found in the cool, clear, strong-flowing, cobble bottomed, sub-alpine rivers and streams (ranging from small to large) in the southeast corner of the Murray-Darling river system. Their range encompasses northeast Victoria, southeast New South Wales and the Australian Capital Territory. Originally two-spined blackfish co-inhabited many of these waters with Macquarie perch and trout cod.\n\nTwo-spined blackfish are similar in shape and appearance to river blackfish, though their spiny dorsal fin usually contain only two spines (hence their scientific name) in comparison to river blackfish which have 7 to 13 distinguishable spines in their spiny dorsal fin. (In reality, this is a rather academic point as two-spined blackfish have blurred the difference between the dorsal spines and the dorsal rays that make up their soft dorsal fin, and any distinctions between the two weakly calcified dorsal spines and the dorsal rays that follow it are hard to pick in a living specimen.)\n\nThe two-spined blackfish is similar to the river blackfish in spawning and diet; however, they prefer rocks and the interstices (\"gaps\") between to timber as the main spawning and habitat sites. Two-spined blackfish are also much smaller, commonly 15 to 17 cm and a maximum size of 30 cm.\n\nThe species feeds mostly on aquatic insect larvae and terrestrial invertebrates, and occasionally other fishes and crayfish. Two-spined blackfish breed between October and December. Larvae hatch after around 16 days and remain at the spawning site with the male parent for another 3 weeks.\n\nTwo-spined blackfish have declined seriously due to stream siltation and competition by introduced species, particularly introduced trout species. The species suffers serious predation and competition from introduced species of trout but due its nocturnal habits and cryptic, cover-oriented behaviour it appears to survive in sufficient numbers to maintain populations in high quality habitats. Recent severe bushfires in south-eastern Australia (2003–2006), however, have filled many upland rivers with large quantities of silt, and infilled the interstices (\"gaps\") between larger rocks that two-spined blackfish normally use as a refuge from predatory trout species. The presumed result will be increased levels of trout predation on two-spined blackfish and the long-term future of two-spined blackfish is now of some concern. The blackfish species are very low in fecundity, slow-growing and long lived, and have low migratory tendencies, so are extremely vulnerable to overfishing and localised extinctions.\n\n"}
{"id": "2165650", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165650", "title": "Fire on the Mountain (1981 film)", "text": "Fire on the Mountain (1981 film)\n\nFire on the Mountain is a 1981 American made-for-television film adaptation of the Edward Abbey novel, \"Fire on the Mountain\", directed by Donald Wrye and starring Buddy Ebsen as John Vogelin, Ron Howard as Lee Mackie and Michael Conrad as Col. Desalius.\n\nThe hero of the movie is Vogelin, a New Mexico rancher whose land adjoins the White Sands Missile Range and is about to be condemned by the United States Air Force to use his land to expand a bombing range. He is the last holdout among the several people whose land the Air Force wants, and he refuses to move. A young land developer, Mackie, is sent to vacate the rancher, but soon he joins in defying the military. Soon it boils down to a battle of wills between Vogelin and the equally bullheaded army officer Colonel Desalius.\n\n"}
{"id": "2165652", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165652", "title": "William Warder Norton", "text": "William Warder Norton\n\nWilliam Warder Norton (September 17, 1891 – November 7, 1945) was a publisher and co-founder of W. W. Norton & Company. He grew up in Columbus, Ohio, moved to New York City and started an import-export business, met and married Margaret Dows Herter, known as Polly or Mary. In 1923, they began publishing lectures delivered at the People's Institute, the adult education division of New York City's Cooper Union. William and Margaret had a daughter, Anne Aston Warder Norton (1928-1977). The Nortons soon expanded their program beyond the Institute, acquiring manuscripts by celebrated academics from America and abroad. This is the beginning of W. W. Norton & Company. Starting in 1942 he was very active with the Council on Books in Wartime. It was that council, which was a consortium of publishers, that agreed to an equitable distribution of paper and binding materials, all these scarce materials that went into the manufacture of books. He died at 54, just four months after V-E Day.\n"}
{"id": "2165654", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165654", "title": "Gel extraction", "text": "Gel extraction\n\nIn molecular biology, gel extraction or gel isolation is a technique used to isolate a desired fragment of intact DNA from an agarose gel following agarose gel electrophoresis. After extraction, fragments of interest can be mixed, precipitated, and enzymatically ligated together in several simple steps. This process, usually performed on plasmids, is the basis for rudimentary genetic engineering.\n\nAfter DNA samples are run on an agarose gel, extraction involves four basic steps: identifying the fragments of interest, isolating the corresponding bands, isolating the DNA from those bands, and removing the accompanying salts and stain.\n\nTo begin, UV light is shone on the gel in order to illuminate all the ethidium bromide-stained DNA. Care must be taken to avoid exposing the DNA to mutagenic radiation for longer than absolutely necessary. The desired band is identified and physically removed with a cover slip or razor blade. The removed slice of gel should contain the desired DNA inside. An alternative method, utilizing SYBR Safe DNA gel stain and blue-light illumination, avoids the DNA damage associated with ethidium bromide and UV light.\n\nSeveral strategies for isolating and cleaning the DNA fragment of interest exist.\n\nGel extraction kits are available from several major biotech manufacturers for a final cost of approximately 1–2 US$ per sample. \nProtocols included in these kits generally call for the dissolution of the gel-slice in 3 volumes of chaotropic agent at 50 °C, followed by application of the solution to a spin-column (the DNA remains in the column), a 70% ethanol wash (the DNA remains in the column, salt and impurities are washed out), and elution of the DNA in a small volume (30 µL) of water or buffer.\n\nThe gel fragment is placed in a dialysis tube that is permeable to fluids but impermeable to molecules at the size of DNA, thus preventing the DNA from passing through the membrane when soaked in TE buffer. An electric field is established around the tubing (in a way similar to gel electrophresis) long enough so that the DNA is removed from the gel but remains in the tube. The tube solution can then be pipetted out and will contain the desired DNA with minimal background.\n\nThe traditional method of gel extraction involves creating a folded pocket of Parafilm wax paper and placing the agarose fragment inside. The agarose is physically compressed with a finger into a corner of the pocket, partially liquifying the gel and its contents. The liquid droplets can then be directed out of the pocket onto an exterior piece of Parafilm, where they are pipetted into a small tube. A butanol extraction removes the ethidium bromide stain, followed by a phenol/chloroform extraction of the cleaned DNA fragment.\n\nThe disadvantage of gel isolation is that background can only be removed if it can be physically identified using the UV light. If two bands are very close together, it can be hard to separate them without some contamination. In order to clearly identify the band of interest, further restriction digests may be necessary. Restriction sites unique to unwanted bands of similar size can aid in breaking up these potential contaminants.\n"}
{"id": "2165664", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165664", "title": "Division of Prospect", "text": "Division of Prospect\n\nThe Division of Prospect was an Australian Electoral Division in the state of New South Wales from 1969 to 2010. It was located in the western suburbs of Sydney, and included the suburbs of Fairfield, Smithfield, Kemps Creek, St Clair, Horsley Park and those parts of the suburb of Prospect south of the Great Western Highway which were the least populous parts of the suburb. The Prospect Reservoir was located within the Division.\n\nThe origins of the Division date back to the redistribution of 21 November 1968, and was first contested at the 1969 Federal election. The seat was a safe Labor seat for its entire existence.\n\nFollowing the 2009 redistribution of New South Wales, the division was renamed McMahon to honour former Prime Minister Sir William McMahon. McMahon was first contested at the 2010 federal election.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2165666", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165666", "title": "White coffee", "text": "White coffee\n\nWhite coffee can refer to any of a number of different kinds of coffees or coffee substitutes worldwide.\n\nIn many English-speaking countries, \"white coffee\" is used to refer to regular black coffee that has had milk, cream or some other \"whitener\" added to it, though the term is almost entirely unheard of in the US, where the same beverage might be called \"coffee light\" in the New York City area, \"light coffee\", \"coffee with milk,\" or \"regular coffee\" in New England and New York City. Cream varieties, often called \"creamers\" in the US, can be made of dairy milk, corn syrup derivatives, soy, or nut products. Sweeteners used include cane sugar or artificial ingredients.\n\nWhite coffee should be distinguished from café au lait, in that white coffee uses chilled or room-temperature milk or other whitener, while café au lait uses heated or steamed milk.\n\nIn Indonesia, the term white coffee or \"kopi putih\" refers to coffee beans which are roasted less than regular coffee beans. The shorter and lower heat roasting yields lighter-colored coffee beans, called \"biji kopi putih\" or white coffee beans. The white coffee beans are harder and different in taste than regular coffee beans. White coffee has a savory and mild taste compared to its regular counterpart. Due to its shorter roasting time, white coffee has a higher concentration of caffeine.\n\nLebanese white coffee \"kahwah bayda\" (قهوة بيضاء) is a caffeine-free drink made from water, orange blossom water, and sweetened with sugar if desired. Although not the most common substitute for coffee it is occasionally served in lieu of coffee (Turkish coffee). Ahweh bayda is traditionally thought to have a soothing effect when taken.\n\nIn Malaysia, the original white coffee started in the Old Town of Ipoh and was a drink made from beans roasted in margarine, ground, brewed and served with sweetened condensed milk. Ipoh Oldtown White Coffee continues to be popular throughout the country. However, “white coffee” in Malaysia often simply refers to how the drink is prepared and presented - with added milk or creamer. \n\nOverseas visitors finding the margarine-roasted coffee beans unorthodox (due to their slight caramelized flavor) are often misled into believing that there is a type of coffee bean endemic to Malaysia called the \"white coffee bean\". The beans used are invariably imported beans roasted to a light color.\n\nLocal coffee manufacturers now mix instant coffee powder with non-dairy creamer or whitener and sugar, and market the 3-in-1 mixture as white coffee as well. The mixture is preferred by Malaysians at home or in the office as a convenient easy-to-prepare coffee drink. The advisability, however, of consuming instant coffee mixed with non-dairy creamer and sugar daily is slowly coming into question, with some manufacturers now taking the sugar out of the mixture, and marketing the 2-in-1 mixture as sugar-free white coffee.\n\nIn the United States, white coffee may also refer to coffee beans which have been roasted to a yellow roast level. When prepared as espresso these beans produce a thin yellow brew, with a high acidic note. There is a debate about whether white coffee is more highly caffeinated than darker roasted coffee. In fact, the sublimation point of caffeine is , about one hundred degrees lower than the typical very dark roast. Coffee beans can catch fire at temperatures lower than . White coffee is generally used only for making espresso drinks, not simple brewed coffee. With shorter roasting times, natural sugars are not caramelized within the coffee beans, making the coffee less bitter. The flavor of white coffee is frequently described as nutlike, with pronounced acidity. \nWhite coffee is usually purchased pre-ground due to the fact that the beans are harder than regular coffee, making it difficult to grind, even using a commercial grinder. For this reason, white coffee usually pours fast when using a commercial espresso machine. It is common for baristas to use the second pour rather than the first because it is believed to have more caffeine and a smoother flavor.\n\nThere is also a form of white coffee, native to Yemen, which refers to the ground shell of the coffee bean. This form of coffee earns its name from its color, and is brewed in the same manner as regular coffee, only with some spices added.\n"}
{"id": "2165673", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165673", "title": "Vigabatrin", "text": "Vigabatrin\n\nVigabatrin, brand name Sabril, is a medication used to treat epilepsy. It became available as a generic medication in 2019.\n\nIt works by inhibiting the breakdown of γ-aminobutyric acid (GABA). It is also known as γ-vinyl-GABA, and is a structural analogue of GABA, but does not bind to GABA receptors.\n\nIn Canada, vigabatrin is approved for use as an adjunctive treatment (with other drugs) in treatment resistant epilepsy, complex partial seizures, secondary generalized seizures, and for monotherapy use in infantile spasms in West syndrome.\n\nAs of 2003, vigabatrin is approved in Mexico for the treatment of epilepsy that is not satisfactorily controlled by conventional therapy (adjunctive or monotherapy) or in recently diagnosed patients who have not tried other agents (monotherapy).\n\nVigabatrin is also indicated for monotherapy use in secondarily generalized tonic-clonic seizures, partial seizures, and in infantile spasms due to West syndrome.\n\nOn August 21, 2009, Lundbeck announced that the U.S. Food and Drug Administration had granted two New Drug Application approvals for vigabatrin. The drug is indicated as monotherapy for pediatric patients one month to two years of age with infantile spasms for whom the potential benefits outweigh the potential risk of vision loss, and as adjunctive (add-on) therapy for adult patients with refractory complex partial seizures (CPS) who have inadequately responded to several alternative treatments and for whom the potential benefits outweigh the risk of vision loss.\n\nIn 1994, Feucht and Brantner-Inthaler reported that vigabatrin reduced seizures by 50-100% in 85% of children with Lennox-Gastaut syndrome who had poor results with sodium valproate.\n\nVigabatrin reduced cholecystokinin tetrapeptide-induced symptoms of panic disorder, in addition to elevated cortisol and ACTH levels, in healthy volunteers.\n\nVigabatrin is also used to treat seizures in succinic semialdehyde dehydrogenase deficiency (SSADHD), which is an inborn GABA metabolism defect that causes intellectual disability, hypotonia, seizures, speech disturbance, and ataxia through the accumulation of γ-Hydroxybutyric acid (GHB). Vigabatrin helps lower GHB levels through GABA transaminase inhibition. However, this is in the brain only; it has no effect on peripheral GABA transaminase, so the GHB keeps building up and eventually reaches the brain.\n\nSleepiness (12.5%), headache (3.8%), dizziness (3.8%), nervousness (2.7%), depression (2.5%), memory disturbances (2.3%), diplopia (2.2%), aggression (2.0%), ataxia (1.9%), vertigo (1.9%), hyperactivity (1.8%), vision loss (1.6%) (See below), confusion (1.4%), insomnia (1.3%), impaired concentration (1.2%), personality issues (1.1%). Out of 299 children, 33 (11%) became hyperactive.\n\nSome patients develop psychosis during the course of vigabatrin therapy, which is more common in adults than in children. This can happen even in patients with no prior history of psychosis. Other rare CNS side effects include anxiety, emotional lability, irritability, tremor, abnormal gait, and speech disorder.\n\nAbdominal pain (1.6%), constipation (1.4%), vomiting (1.4%), and nausea (1.4%). Dyspepsia and increased appetite occurred in less than 1% of subjects in clinical trials.\n\nFatigue (9.2%), weight gain (5.0%), asthenia (1.1%).\n\nA teratology study conducted in rabbits found that a dose of 150 mg/kg/day caused cleft palate in 2% of pups and a dose of 200 mg/kg/day caused it in 9%. This may be due to a decrease in methionine levels, according to a study published in March 2001. In 2005, a study conducted at the University of Catania was published stating that rats whose mothers had consumed 250–1000 mg/kg/day had poorer performance in the water maze and open-field tasks, rats in the 750-mg group were underweight at birth and did not catch up to the control group, and rats in the 1000 mg group did not survive pregnancy.\n\nThere is no controlled teratology data in humans to date.\n\nIn 2003, vigabatrin was shown by Frisén and Malmgren to cause irreversible diffuse atrophy of the retinal nerve fiber layer in a retrospective study of 25 patients. This has the most effect on the outer area (as opposed to the macular, or central area) of the retina.\nVisual field defects had been reported as early as 1997 by Tom Eke and others, in the UK. Some authors, including Comaish et al. believe that visual field loss and electrophysiological changes may be demonstrable in up to 50% of Vigabatrin users.\n\nThe retinal toxicity of vigabatrin can be attributed to a taurine depletion.\n\nDue to safety issues, the Vigabatrin REMS Program is required by the FDA to ensure informed decisions before initiating and to ensure appropriate use of this drug.\n\nA study published in 2002 found that vigabatrin causes a statistically significant increase in plasma clearance of carbamazepine.\n\nIn 1984, Drs Rimmer and Richens at the University of Wales reported that administering vigabatrin with phenytoin lowered the serum phenytoin concentration in patients with treatment-resistant epilepsy. Five years later, the same two scientists reported a fall in concentration of phenytoin of 23% within five weeks in a paper describing their failed attempt at elucidating the mechanism behind this interaction.\n\nVigabatrin is an irreversible mechanism-based inhibitor of gamma-aminobutyric acid aminotransferase (GABA-AT), the enzyme responsible for the catabolism of GABA. Inhibition of GABA-AT results in increased levels of GABA in the brain. Vigabatrin is a racemic compound, and its [S]-enantiomer is pharmacologically active. \n\nWith most drugs, elimination half-life is a useful predictor of dosing schedules and the time needed to reach steady state concentrations. In the case of vigabatrin, however, it has been found that the half-life of biologic activity is far longer than the elimination half-life.\n\nFor vigabatrin, there is no range of target concentrations because researchers found no difference between the serum concentration levels of responders and those of non-responders. Instead, the duration of action is believed to be more a function of the GABA-T resynthesis rate; levels of GABA-T do not usually return to their normal state until six days after stopping the medication.\n\nVigabatrin was developed in the 1980s with the specific goal of increasing GABA concentrations in the brain in order to stop an epileptic seizure. To do this, the drug was designed to irreversibly inhibit the GABA transaminase, which degrades the GABA substrate. Although the drug was approved for treatment in the United Kingdom in 1989, the authorized use of Vigabatrin by US Food and Drug Administration was delayed twice in the United States before 2009. It was delayed in 1983 because animal trials produced intramyelinic edema, however, the effects were not apparent in human trials so the drug design continued. In 1997, the trials were temporarily suspended because it was linked to peripheral visual field defects in humans.\n\nVigabatrin is sold as Sabril in Canada, Mexico,\nand the United Kingdom. The brand name in Denmark is Sabrilex. Sabril was approved in the United States on August 21, 2009 and is currently marketed in the U.S. by Lundbeck Inc., which acquired Ovation Pharmaceuticals, the U.S. sponsor in March 2009.\n\nOn January 16, 2019, the FDA approved the first generic version of Sabril (vigabatrin) in the United States.\n"}
{"id": "2165674", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165674", "title": "John N. Maclean", "text": "John N. Maclean\n\nJohn Norman Maclean (born 1943), is an author and journalist who has published five books on fatal wildland fires. He is the son of Norman Maclean, author of \"A River Runs Through It\".\n\nJohn N. Maclean was born in Chicago, Illinois, in 1943, the second of two children. He attended the University of Chicago school system through high school and graduated from Shimer College in Mt. Carroll, Illinois, then a satellite school of the U of C.\n\nMaclean began his career in journalism in 1964 as a police reporter and rewrite man with the City News Bureau of Chicago. He went to work for the \"Chicago Tribune\" the following year. He married Frances Ellen McGeachie in 1968; they have two adult sons, Daniel, a science teacher in Anchorage, Alaska, and John Fitzroy, a public defender for the state of Maryland.\n\nIn 1970 Maclean was assigned to the Washington Bureau of the \"Tribune.\" As diplomatic correspondent there he covered the State Department and was a regular on the \"Kissinger Shuttle,\" covering much of the \"shuttle diplomacy\" of Secretary of State Henry Kissinger. Maclean was a Nieman Fellow in Journalism at Harvard University for the 1974-1975 academic year and became the \"Tribune\"’s Foreign Editor in Chicago in 1988. He resigned from the newspaper in 1995 (after news reports of Colorado's tragic South Canyon Fire) to write \"Fire on the Mountain\" and has since published three other books on fatal wildland fires.\n\nIn the late 1980s he was a daily guest on WBEZ radio's \"Midday with Sondra Gair\" news program, billed as Energy and Economics Reporter.\n\nMaclean's first book was \"Fire on the Mountain\", about the deadly South Canyon Fire on Storm King Mountain (in Garfield County, Colorado), in 1994. The book won the Mountains and Plains Booksellers award for the best non-fiction of 1994.\nMaclean's second book, \"Fire and Ashes: On the Frontlines of American Wildfire\", was published in 2003 and chronicles the 1953 Rattlesnake Fire on the Mendocino National Forest in northern California, the 1999 Sadler Fire in Nevada, and the 1949 Mann Gulch Fire in Montana, which was the subject of his father, Norman Maclean's \"Young Men and Fire,\" a book published posthumously with John’s assistance. \nMaclean's third book, \"The Thirtymile Fire: A Chronicle of Bravery and Betrayal\", recounts the deadly Thirtymile Fire (and the controversy and recriminations that raged in its aftermath). The Thirtymile entrapped and killed four members of a fire crew.\n\nMaclean's fourth book, \"The Esperanza Fire: Arson, Murder and the Agony of Engine 57\" details the 2006 wildfire that killed a five-man Forest Service engine crew. The arsonist, Raymond Lee Oyler, was the first person ever convicted of murder for setting a wildland fire; Oyler was sentenced to death and remains on Death Row at California's San Quentin State Prison.\n\nMaclean's fifth book, \"River of Fire: The Rattlesnake Fire and the Mission Boys,\" (2018) brings up to date his account of the 1953 fire that killed 15 firefighters in northern California, 14 of them members of a missionary fire crew, that he first chronicled in \"Fire and Ashes.\" Following publication of that first account, the site of the fire was reclaimed and turned into a living memorial, with key points located as guides for learning. Many families and friends rediscovered those who were lost . The arsonist who started the fire and was imprisoned for it, Stan Pattan, whom Maclean located, interviewed, and corresponded with for many years, died without an obituary, until this volume was published.\n\n"}
{"id": "2165675", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165675", "title": "John R. Brazil", "text": "John R. Brazil\n\nJohn R. Brazil (born 1946) is an American professor of English and American Studies. He was the president of Trinity University in San Antonio, Texas from 1999 until his retirement in January 2010.\n\nHe is a native of California. He received an A.B. in History in 1968 from Stanford University. He holds the Master of Philosophy and Ph.D. degrees in American Studies from Yale University.\n\nHe taught at Yale, then at San Jose State University where he became acting academic vice president. He became president of Southeastern Massachusetts University in 1984, that title changing to chancellor when the university became part of the University of Massachusetts system as the University of Massachusetts Dartmouth. He became president of Bradley in 1992. In 1999 he became the 17th president of Trinity University, leaving that position in 2010.\n\nHe served as a member of the U.S. Department of Education and American Association of State Colleges and Universities’ mission of American university presidents to the Soviet Union in 1989. In 1997 he was awarded an Honorary Doctor degree from the Samara State University in Russia.\n\nHe has published extensively in such scholarly journals as the American Quarterly, Twentieth-Century Literary Criticism, American Literary Realism, and the Mississippi Quarterly, and has made numerous presentations. He currently has two books in progress, \"Murder and Twenties America\" and \"The Twenties on Trial\".\n\nHe was a Director of Caterpillar Inc. from 1998 until 2010.\n\nBrazil and his wife, Janice Hosking Brazil, have two children, a son, Adrian, and a daughter, Morgan.\n\nHe was a Fulbright Senior Scholar at the University of Sydney in 1980. He is a member of Phi Beta Kappa and Phi Kappa Phi honor societies, Beta Gamma Sigma international honor society in business administration, and an honorary member of Gold Key and Delta Mu Delta national honor society in business administration.\n"}
{"id": "2165676", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165676", "title": "Homosexuality in India", "text": "Homosexuality in India\n\nHomosexuality in India has been a subject of discussion since ancient times to modern times. Hindu texts have taken positions regarding the homosexual characters and themes. The ancient Indian text Kamasutra written by Vātsyāyana dedicates a complete chapter on erotic homosexual behaviour. Historical literary evidence indicates that homosexuality has been prevalent across the Indian subcontinent throughout history, and that homosexuals were not necessarily considered inferior in any way until about 18th century during British colonial rule. On 6 September 2018, a 5-judge constitutional bench of Supreme Court of India invalidated part of Section 377 of the Indian Penal Code, hence making homosexuality legal in India.\nIn striking down the colonial-era law that made gay sex punishable by up to 10 years in prison, one judge said the landmark decision would \"pave the way for a better future.\" This ruling also applies to Jammu and Kashmir state under Article 141 of the Constitution of India and Delhi Agreement 1952, as section 377 of IPC and Ranbir Penal Code is pari materia and Judicial Pronouncements were extended to Jammu and Kashmir.\n\nThere are no official demographics for the LGBT population in India, but the government of India submitted figures to the Supreme Court in 2012, according to which, there were about 2.5 million gay people recorded in India. These figures are only based on those individuals who have self-declared to the Ministry of Health. There may be much higher statistics for individuals who have concealed their identity, since a number of homosexual Indians are living in the closet due to fear of discrimination.\n\nHomophobia is prevalent in India. Public discussion of homosexuality in India has been inhibited by the fact that sexuality in any form is rarely discussed openly. In recent years, however, attitudes towards homosexuality have shifted slightly. In particular, there have been more depictions and discussions of homosexuality in the Indian news media and in Bollywood. Before striking down the colonial-era law several organisations have expressed support for decriminalising homosexuality in India, and pushed for tolerance and social equality for lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender people. India is among countries with a social element of a third gender, but mental, physical, emotional and economic violence against LGBT community in India prevails. Lacking support from family, society or police, many gay rape victims do not report the crimes.\n\nThere are Ancient Indian texts which are relevant to modern LGBT causes. Religion has played a role in shaping Indian customs and traditions. While injunctions on homosexuality's morality are not explicitly mentioned in the religious texts central to Hinduism, the largest religion in India, Hinduism has taken various positions, ranging from homosexual characters and themes in its texts to being neutral or antagonistic towards it. The ancient Indian text Kamasutra written by Vātsyāyana dedicates a complete chapter on erotic homosexual behaviour. Historical literary evidence indicates that homosexuality has been prevalent across the Indian subcontinent throughout history, and that homosexuals were not necessarily considered inferior in any way until about 18th century during British colonial rule.\n\nThe Arthashastra, an ancient Indian treatise on statecraft, mentions a wide variety of sexual practices which, whether performed with a man or a woman, were sought to be punished with the lowest grade of fine. While homosexual intercourse was not sanctioned, it was treated as a very minor offence, and several kinds of heterosexual intercourse were punished more severely.\n\nSex between non-virgin women incurred a small fine, while homosexual intercourse between men could be made up for merely with a bath with one's clothes on, and a penance of \"eating the five products of the cow and keeping a one-night fast\" – the penance being a replacement of the traditional concept of homosexual intercourse resulting in a loss of caste.\n\nOn 24 August 2017, India's Supreme Court gave the country's LGBT community the freedom to safely express their sexual orientation. Therefore, an individual's sexual orientation is protected under the country's Right to Privacy law. However, the Supreme Court did not directly overturn any laws criminalizing same-sex relationships.\n\nOn 6 September 2018, consensual gay sex was legalised by India's Supreme Court.\n\nSection 377 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), dating back to 1861, makes sexual activities \"against the order of nature\" punishable by law and carries a life sentence. The law replaced the variety of punishments for Zina (unlawful intercourse) mandated in the Mughal empire's Fatawa-e-Alamgiri, these ranged from 50 lashes for a slave, 100 for a free infidel, to death by stoning for a Muslim. Similarly the Goa Inquisition once prosecuted the capital crime of sodomy in Portuguese India, but not lesbian acts.\n\nOne leader, Akkai Padmashali (born Jagadeesh) was influential in the protests and demonstrations that eventually led to the repeal of Section 377 of Indian Penal Code She started the organization \"Ondede\" in 2014 which envisioned a society that is non-discriminatory and gender-just. Ondede, in Kannada, means convergence and this is what she envisioned for the society of India as a whole. She wanted Ondede to be a place where people of all sexual orientations spoke openly of their concerns. Their mission statement is \"To create a space for dialogue, support and strengthen action to visibilize issues of Dignity-Voice- Sexuality in relation to children, women and sexual minorities\". They develop partnerships with community groups through social movements, engage with the state and conduct research.\n\nSeveral organisations, including the Naz Foundation (India) Trust, the National AIDS Control Organisation, Law Commission of India, Union Health Ministry, National Human Rights Commission of India and the Planning Commission of India have expressed support for decriminalising homosexuality in India.\n\nIn September 2006, Nobel Laureate Amartya Sen, acclaimed writer Vikram Seth and other prominent Indians publicly demanded the repeal of section 377 of the IPC. The open letter demanded that \"In the name of humanity and of our Constitution, this cruel and discriminatory law should be struck down.\" On 30 June 2008, Indian Labour Minister Oscar Fernandes backed calls for decriminalisation of consensual gay sex, and Prime Minister Manmohan Singh called for greater tolerance towards homosexuals. On 23 July 2008, Bombay High Court Judge Bilal Nazki said that India's unnatural sex law should be reviewed. The Law Commission of India had historically favoured the retention of this section in its 42nd and 156th report, but in its 172nd report, delivered in 2000, it recommended its repeal.\n\nOn 9 August 2008, then health minister, Anbumani Ramadoss began his campaign for changing Section 377 of the Indian penal code, which defines homosexuality as an unnatural act and thus illegal. At the International AIDS Conference in Mexico City, he said, \"Section 377 of IPC, which criminalises men who have sex with men, must go.\" His ministerial portfolio had put him at odds with the Indian Home Minister Shivraj Patil and several other ministers in seeking to scrap Section 377. In late 2008, he changed his argument saying he does not want the scrapping of Section 377 but a mere modification of the law treating homosexuality as a criminal offence punishable up to life imprisonment. He said he wants Prime Minister Manmohan Singh to resolve the matter, while he wanted to avoid discord with the home ministry, who said the altered law would then result in an increase in criminal incidences of sodomy or offences involving sexual abuse of children, particularly boys. In doing so he alleged that the law even penalises health workers who treat homosexuals, while making this a cognizable and non-bailable offence.\n\nVarious Hindu organisations, based in India and abroad have supported decriminalisation of homosexual behaviours. In 2009, the Hindu Council UK became one of the first major religious organisations to support LGBT rights when they issued a statement \"Hinduism does not condemn homosexuality\". Sri Sri Ravi Shankar, a prominent Hindu spiritual leader, has condemned sec 377 in a series of tweets, maintaining that \"Hinduism has never considered homosexuality a crime\" and \"to brand a person a criminal based on sexual preference would be absurd\".\n\nThe United Nations has urged India to decriminalise homosexuality by saying it would help the fight against HIV/AIDS by allowing intervention programmes, much like the successful ones in China and Brazil. Jeffrey O'Malley, director of the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) on HIV/AIDS, has stated countries which protect men who have sex with men (MSM) have double the rate of coverage of HIV prevention services as much as 60%. According to him, inappropriate criminalisation hinders universal access to essential HIV, health and social services. Later talking to \"The Hindu\" in November 2008, he added concerns that the then in power United Progressive Alliance government was in a difficult position in regards to amending Section 377 of the Indian Penal Code because of the then upcoming elections, as such changes could be misrepresented. He further emphasised the need to change the laws, sensitise the police and judiciary. According to him, after removal of discriminatory laws, marginalised groups would have better access to treatment and prevention facilities like condoms. He warned of the urgency and stated that India had succeeded in checking the spread of AIDS through commercial sex workers but transmission through gay sex, and injectable-drug users was still an area of concern in the country.\n\nIn July 2014, a book on LGBTQIA and genderqueer rights published by Srishti Madurai was released by Vanathi Srinivasan, the general secretary of the BJP in Tamil Nadu. The move has been considered encouraging by members of the LGBTQIA community.\n\nBharatiya Janata Party senior leader Arun Jaitley stated in February 2014 that he supported decriminalisation of homosexuality. On 13 January 2015, BJP spokesperson Shaina NC, appearing on \"NDTV\", stated, \"We BJP are for decriminalising homosexuality. That is the progressive way forward.\" However, the BJP government (at that time the ruling party at the Union of India) did not put forth any stand before the Supreme Court when the Navtej Johar case (which decriminalised homosexuality) was being decided and left the matter to the 'wisdom of the court'.\n\nRashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh spokesperson Ram Madhav in an interview with national daily Business Standard said in May 2014: \"But I can say this – that while glorification of certain forms of social behaviour is not something we endorse, the penalising and criminalisation aspects need to be looked into. Whether to call homosexuality a crime and treat it as one in this day and age is questionable.\" This is interpreted as Sangh's support to decriminalisation of homosexuality.\n\nOn 6 March 2016, Srishti Madurai's new website was launched by Dalit activist and Ambedkarite Ma. Venkatesan from BJP in the presence of Central Minister Pon Radhakrishnan, Vanathi Srinivasan, Aravindan Neelakandan, Joe D'Cruz and scores of Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh volunteers at Chennai.\n\nIn December 2002, Naz Foundation filed a Public Interest Litigation (PIL) to challenge IPC Section 377 in the Delhi High Court. On 4 July 2008, the Delhi High Court noted that there was \"nothing unusual\" in holding a gay rally, something which is common outside India.\n\nOn 2 July 2009, in the case of \"Naz Foundation v National Capital Territory of Delhi\", the High Court of Delhi struck down much of S. 377 of the IPC as being unconstitutional. The Court held that to the extent S. 377 criminalised consensual non-vaginal sexual acts between adults, it violated an individual's fundamental rights to equality before the law, freedom from discrimination and to life and personal liberty under Articles 14, 15 and 21 of the Constitution of India. The High Court did not strike down Section 377 completely. It held the section to be valid in case of non-consensual non-vaginal intercourse or to intercourse with minors, and it expressed the hope that Parliament would legislatively address the issue.\n\nOn 11 December 2013, on responding an appeal filed by an astrologer Suresh Kumar Koushal and others, the Supreme Court of India upheld the constitutionality of Section 377 of the IPC, and stated that the Court was instead deferring to Indian legislators to provide the sought-after clarity. The Delhi High Court judgement was as follows:\n\nOn 28 January 2014, Supreme Court dismissed the review petition filed by Central Government, Naz Foundation and several others, against its 11 December verdict on Section 377 of IPC.\n\nIn January 2015, National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) said that according to data collected, 778 cases were filed under Section 377 of IPC and 587 arrests were made in 2014 until October after the Supreme Court verdict. Some states are yet to submit their full data.\n\nOn 18 December 2015 Shashi Tharoor, a member of the Indian National Congress, introduced a Private Members Bill for the decriminalisation of Section 377 of the Indian Penal Code in the Lok Sabha, but the motion was rejected by house by a vote of 71–24 with one abstention.\n\nOn 12 March 2016, Tharoor once again introduced a Private Members Bill for the decriminilsation of Section 377. However, the motion for introduction was yet again defeated by a division of 58–14 with one abstention.\n\nOn 2 February 2016, the Supreme Court agreed to reconsider its 2013 judgment; it said it would refer petitions to abolish Section 377 to a five-member constitutional bench, which would conduct a comprehensive hearing of the issue.\n\nOn 24 August 2016 a draft law for the ban of commercial surrogacy was cleared by the Union Cabinet and announced by Sushma Swaraj, the Minister of External Affairs (India). The draft bill denied homosexuals from having surrogate children, with Swaraj stating \"We do not recognise live-in and homosexual relationships ... this is against our ethos\".\n\nOn 24 August 2017, the Supreme Court upheld that the right to individual privacy is an \"intrinsic\" and fundamental right under the constitution. In its 547-page decision on privacy rights, the nine-judge bench also held that \"sexual orientation is an essential attribute of privacy\". The judgement noted, \"Discrimination against an individual on the basis of sexual orientation is deeply offensive to the dignity and self-worth of the individual. Equality demands that the sexual orientation of each individual in society must be protected on an even platform. The right to privacy and the protection of sexual orientation lie at the core of the fundamental rights guaranteed by Articles 14, 15 and 21 of the Constitution.\"\n\nOn 10 July 2018, the Hon'ble Supreme Court upholding the importance of the rights of the LGBT community through Justice D. Y. Chandrachud in the proceedings of the court held that Choosing a Partner is every person's Fundamental Right\n\nOn 6 September 2018, the Supreme Court struck down the part of section 377, a British-era provision, criminalising consensual homosexual activities. The apex court upheld that other aspects of section 377 criminalising unnatural sex with minors and animals will remain in force.\n\nThe 11 December 2013 judgement of the Supreme Court, upholding Section 377, was met with support from religious leaders. The main petitioner in the plea was an astrologer, Suresh Kumar Koushal, and other petitioners were religious organizations like All India Muslim Personal Law Board, Trust God Missionaries, Krantikari Manuwadi Morcha, Apostolic Churches Alliance, and Utkal Christian Council. The \"Daily News and Analysis\" called it \"the univocal unity of religious leaders in expressing their homophobic attitude. Usually divisive and almost always seen tearing down each other's religious beliefs, leaders across sections came forward in decrying homosexuality and expressing their solidarity with the judgment.\" The article added that Baba Ramdev India's well-known yoga guru, after advising that journalists interviewing him not to turn homosexual, stated he could cure homosexuality through yoga and called it a bad addiction.\n\nThe Vishwa Hindu Parishad's vice-president Om Prakash Singhal said, \"This is a right decision, we welcome it. Homosexuality is against Indian culture, against nature, and against science. We are regressing, going back to when we were almost like animals. The SC had protected our culture.\" Singhal further dismissed HIV/AIDS concerns within the LGBT community saying, \"It is understood that when you try to suppress one anomaly, there will be a break-out of a few more.\" This, however, is in stark disagreement with many Hindu teachings because Hinduism does not view homosexuality as a religious sin.\n\nMaulana Madni, of an Islamic organization, Jamiat Ulema-e-Hind, has echoed similar sentiments by stating that \"Homosexuality is a crime according to scriptures and is unnatural. People cannot consider themselves to be exclusive of a society... In a society, a family is made up of a man and a woman, not a woman and a woman, or a man and a man. If these same-sex couples adopt children, the child will grow up with a skewed version of a family. Society will disintegrate. If we are to look at countries in the West who have allowed same-sex marriages, you will find the mental tensions they suffer from.\"\n\nRabbi Ezekiel Isaac Malekar, honorary secretary of the Judah Hyam Synagogue, in upholding the judgement, was also quoted as saying \"In Judaism, our scriptures do not permit homosexuality.\" Reverend Paul Swarup of the Cathedral Church of the Redemption in Delhi in stating his views on what he believes to be the unnaturalness of homosexuality, stated \"Spiritually, human sexual relations are identified as those shared by a man and a woman. The Supreme Court's view is an endorsement of our scriptures.\"\n\nIn 2005, Prince Manvendra Singh Gohil, who hails from Rajpipla in the Gujarat, publicly came out as gay. He was quickly anointed by the Indian and the world media as the first openly gay royal. He was disinherited as an immediate reaction by the royal family, though they eventually reconciled. He appeared on the American talk show \"The Oprah Winfrey Show\" on 24 October 2007, and on BBC Three's \"Undercover Princes\". In 2008, Zoltan Parag, a competitor at the Mr. Gay International contest said that he was apprehensive about returning to India. He said, \"Indian media has exposed me so much that now when I call my friends back home, their parents do not let them talk to me\".\n\nOn 29 June 2008, five Indian cities (Delhi, Bangalore, Kolkata, Indore and Pondicherry) celebrated gay pride parades. About 2,000 people turned out in these nationwide parades. Mumbai held its pride march on 16 August 2008, with Bollywood actress Celina Jaitley flagged off the festivities. On 4 July 2008, the Delhi High Court, while hearing the case to decriminalise homosexuality, opined that there was nothing unusual in holding a gay rally, something which is common outside India.\n\nDays after the 2 July 2009 Delhi High Court verdict legalising homosexuality, Pink Pages, India's first online LGBT magazine was released. On 16 April 2009, India's first gay magazine \"Bombay Dost\" originally launched in 1990, was re-launched by Celina Jaitley in Mumbai.\n\nOn 27 June 2009, Bhubaneswar, the capital city of Odisha, saw its first gay pride parade. A day later, Union Law Minister Veerappa Moily announced that the Union Home Minister has convened a meeting with the Union Law Ministers, Union Health Ministers and Home Ministers of all states to evolve a consensus on decriminalising homosexuality in India. On 28 June 2009, Delhi and Bangalore held their second gay pride parades, and Chennai, generally considered to be a very conservative city, held its first.\n\nMumbai has one of its own pride events, like Kashish Mumbai Queer Film Festival which was first held in 2010 from 22 to 25 April and in the next year 2011 from 25 to 29 May. It was the first queer film festival in India and is held in a mainstream multiplex theater which screens LGBT films from all over the world. It has been recognised by Interpride as a pride event in India.\n\nMadurai celebrated city's first LGBTQ Rainbow festival on 29 July 2012, Anjali Gopalan inaugurated Alan Turing Rainbow festival and flagged off the Asia's first Gender queer pride parade as a part of Turing Rainbow festival organised by Srishti Madurai, a literary and resource circle for alternative gender and sexualities. It was established by Gopi Shankar a student of The American College in Madurai to eradicate social discrimination faced by the LGBT and Genderqueer community. The objective of the organisation in to highlight 20 different types of Genders.\n\nOn 1 May 2011, Kolkata Rainbow Pride Festival (KRPF) was formed to take the initiative of organising Pride Walk in Kolkata. Since then the initiative of Queer Pride Parade in Kolkata is being taken by KRPF. The 11th Kolkata Rainbow Pride Walk, held on 15 July 2012, was attended by more than 1500 people. Kolkata hosted South Asia's first pride walk in 1999.\n\nChandigarh held its first LGBT pride parade on 15 March 2013 and it has been held annually ever since.\n\nThe first LGBT pride parade in Gujarat state was held at Surat on 6 October 2013.\n\nRajasthan witnessed its first pride event on 1 March 2015, when a pride walk was held in Jaipur.\n\nAwadh witnessed the first Awadh Pride parade in 2017.\n\nIn 2013, India was represented by Nolan Lewis, a model, at the Mr Gay World 2013 contest. He had trouble finding sponsors. Previously, India had been represented at the Mr Gay World by Zoltan Parag Bhaindarkar in 2008. He did not return to India and reportedly sought asylum in the United States.\n\nSushant Divgikar, the winner of Mr Gay India 2014, was a contestant on the Bigg Boss reality show. On 26 July 2014, at Kochi the 5th All-Kerala Queer Pride Parade was held. It was organised by Queerala (a support group for the LGBT community) and Sahayathrika (a rights organisation for lesbian and bisexual women in Kerala).\n\nIn June 2016, a platform named Amour Queer Dating is launched in India, to help queer/LGBTIQ people find long term companions.\n\nIn February 2017, the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare unveiled resource material relating to health issues to be used as a part of a nationwide adolescent peer-education plan called \"Saathiya\". Among other subjects, the material discusses homosexuality. The material states, \"Yes, adolescents frequently fall in love. They can feel attraction for a friend or any individual of the same or opposite sex. It is normal to have special feelings for someone. It is important for adolescents to understand that such relationships are based on mutual consent, trust, transparency, and respect. It is alright to talk about such feelings to the person for whom you have them but always in a respectful manner.\"\n\n\nOrganisations:\n\nReligious views:\n\nMedia:\n\nRelated:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2165686", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165686", "title": "Fire on the Mountain (book)", "text": "Fire on the Mountain (book)\n\nFire on the Mountain () is a 1999 non-fiction book by John N. Maclean that describes the most famous wildland fire of the late 20th century. The book describes the events and aftermath of the South Canyon Fire on Storm King Mountain on July 6, 1994 in Colorado, which took the lives of 14 firefighters. Those who died included nine members of the Prineville (Oregon) Hotshots: Kathi Beck, Tami Bickett, Scott Blecha, Levi Brinkley, Doug Dunbar, Terri Hagen, Bonnie Holtby, Rob Johnson, and Jon Kelso, along with a Missoula Smokejumper, Don Mackey, two McCall (Idaho) Smokejumpers, Roger Roth and James Thrash, and two members of a Helitack crew, Richard Tyler and Rob Browning. \n\"Fire on the Mountain,\" won the Mountain and Plains Booksellers award as the best non-fiction book of 1999. It was made into an eponymous two-hour documentary by the History Channel that was a finalist for an Emmy award and won the Cine Master's Award as the best documentary of 1999. \n\nJohn N. Maclean's father Norman Maclean wrote \"Young Men and Fire\" that told a very similar story about the Mann Gulch Fire of August 1949 and the 13 men who died there. The fire occurred in Mann Gulch in the Gates of the Mountains Wilderness. \n"}
{"id": "2165697", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165697", "title": "Seal of Tennessee", "text": "Seal of Tennessee\n\nThe Great Seal of the State of Tennessee is the official insignia of the U.S. state of Tennessee.\n\nAn official Great Seal of Tennessee is provided for in the Constitution of the State of Tennessee of February 6, 1796. However, design was not undertaken until September 25, 1801.\n\nThe Roman numerals XVI, representing Tennessee as the 16th state to enter the United States, are found at the top of the seal.\n\nImages of a plow, a bundle of wheat, a cotton plant, and the word \"Agriculture\" below the three images occupying the center of the seal. Wheat and cotton were, and still are, important cash crops grown in the state.\n\nThe lower half of the seal originally displayed a boat and a boatman with the word \"Commerce\" underneath, but was changed to a flat-bottomed riverboat without a boatman subsequently. River trade was important to the state due to three large rivers: the Tennessee River, the Cumberland River, and the Mississippi River; the boat continues to represent the importance of commerce to the state.\n\nSurrounding the images in the original design were the words \"The Great Seal of the State of Tennessee\" and \"Feb. 6th, 1796\". The month and day have been dropped in the modern design.\n\nIn 1987, the Tennessee General Assembly adopted a standardized version of the seal that updated its look and appearance. The seal is kept by the Secretary of State and the Governor for official use on state documents, like legislation, commissions, and proclamations.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2165700", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165700", "title": "Pompeia gens", "text": "Pompeia gens\n\nThe gens Pompeia was a plebeian family at ancient Rome, first appearing in history during the second century BC, and frequently occupying the highest offices of the Roman state from then until imperial times. The first of the Pompeii to obtain the consulship was Quintus Pompeius in 141 BC, but by far the most illustrious of the gens was Gnaeus Pompeius, surnamed \"Magnus\", a distinguished general under the dictator Sulla, who became a member of the First Triumvirate, together with Caesar and Crassus. After the death of Crassus, the rivalry between Caesar and Pompeius led to the Civil War, one of the defining events of the final years of the Roman Republic.\n\nThe nomen \"Pompeius\" (frequently anglicized as \"Pompey\") is generally believed to be derived from the Oscan praenomen \"Pompo\", equivalent to the Latin \"Quintus\", and thus a patronymic surname. The gentilicia \"Pompilius\" and \"Pomponius\", with which \"Pompeius\" is frequently confounded, were also derived from \"Pompo\". The gentile-forming suffix \"\" was typical of Sabine families, suggesting that the Pompeii were of Sabine or Oscan extraction. Cicero describes Quintus Pompeius, the consul of 141 BC, as a man of \"humble and obscure origin\".\n\nChase posits an alternative etymology: that \"Pompeius\" and similar names were instead derived from \"pompa\", a procession, or a derived cognomen \"Pompo\", meaning not \"fifth\", but a participant in a procession; but he concludes that all of these hypotheses are uncertain.\n\nThe main praenomina of the Pompeii were \"Gnaeus\", \"Quintus\", and \"Sextus\", each of which was used by the two main branches of the family under the Republic, as well as by other members. Individual families made use of \"Aulus\" and \"Marcus\". All of these were common names throughout Roman history. A few Pompeii not associated with any of the major families of this gens used other praenomina.\n\nAccording to Velleius Paterculus, the Pompeii of the Republic were divided into two or three distinct families, of which two can be reconstructed with a high degree of probability. How they were related is not known. They used almost entirely different sets of praenomina, which was unusual, since as a rule certain ancestral praenomina would be used by all of the branches of a gens, although others might be unique to individual stirpes.\nThe first branch to appear at Rome acquired the surname \"Rufus\", signifying someone with red hair, but it was only passed down through one line. The surname \"Bithynicus\" is also thought to have belonged to a branch of this family, although it is not certain how the name, a reference to Bithynia, was acquired, or precisely when.\n\nThe other branch, which played a conspicuous role in the final decades of the Republic and under the early Empire, mainly used personal cognomina, such as \"Strabo\", \"Magnus\", \"Pius\", and \"Faustulus\". \"Strabo\", referring to someone with a pronounced squint, belonged to the father of the triumvir, and is said to have been the nickname of his cook, whose proper name was Menogenes; but it then became a nickname of Pompeius, because he resembled the cook.\n\n\"Magnus\", or \"great\", was originally an epithet of the triumvir, who won renown as a general under Sulla's command, and later on his own; his sons and some of their descendants also used the name to signify their connection to him. \"Pius\", or \"faithful\", was assumed by the general's son, Sextus, to signify his filial devotion to pursue vengeance on behalf of his father and brother. \"Faustulus\", found as a surname on the coins of a Sextus Pompeius, presumably a member of the same family, is a diminutive of \"Faustus\", meaning \"fortunate\" or \"lucky\".\n\nVarious surnames were borne by other Pompeii, including a number of freedmen and their descendants, but the majority of the Pompeii who lived in the time of the Republic bore no cognomen.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2165703", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165703", "title": "Residence hall director", "text": "Residence hall director\n\nA Residence Hall Director is college or university employee generally responsible for the management and daily operations of campus residence halls. While the term Residence Hall Director is the common title used for this position, they are also known at different schools as Area Coordinators (ACs), Area Directors (ADs), Hall Coordinators (HCs), Community Directors (CDs), Hall Directors (HDs), Resident or Residence Directors (RDs), Resident Deans (RDs), Residence Hall Coordinators (RHCs), or Residence Life Coordinators (RLCs). While different titles are used by different colleges and universities, the positions generally have similar job requirements, dependent upon the size of the institution and scope of the position's overarching department.\n\nAlthough not universal, some universities require Residence Hall Directors to have earned the minimum of a bachelor's degree, while most others require a master's degree in college student personnel, higher education, or another related or relevant field. Some universities fill the Residence Hall Director positions with graduate students who are only part time and may be required to complete fewer tasks or are responsible for smaller residential areas. There are also institutions that hire undergraduate students for the position. These students are often overseen by an Area Coordinator or a mid-level student affairs officer.\n\nThe main responsibility of the hall director is the direct supervision of Resident Assistants (RAs). Often carrying out the training of the RAs themselves, Residence Hall Directors meet frequently with their RAs to ensure the residence hall community is healthy and operating smoothly.\n\nIn addition to meeting and managing the RAs and any other hall staff, Residence Hall Directors frequently (depending on the university) have many of the following responsibilities:\n\nAnother aspect of being a Residence Hall Director is that they also tend to live in the hall or a separate adjoining apartment. They also tend to be on call 24 hours a day and are generally called by their RAs if problems arise needing attention.\n\n"}
{"id": "2165706", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165706", "title": "Millard Public Schools", "text": "Millard Public Schools\n\nThe Millard Public Schools is a school district in the southwest part of Omaha, Nebraska, United States. The first school in Millard was established in the fall of 1870. The school district is named for Ezra Millard (1833-1886), who platted Millard, a mostly uninhabited prairie 12 miles southwest of the city. The former city of Millard was annexed by the City of Omaha in 1971 after a lengthy legal battle. Today the Millard School District has diverse programs such as Nebraska's only K-12 International Baccalaureate program, offered at Millard North High school, Millard North Middle School and Aldrich Elementary. The district also offers the Core Academy and Montessori, as well as many other programs.\n\nThirteen Millard schools have earned the Blue Ribbon Award from the U.S. Department of Education. \"Kiplinger's Magazine\" cited the \"top-rated, nationally recognized\" Millard School District as one of the reasons Omaha rated No. 3 in the list of the Top 10 Best Cities for 2008.\n\nMillard is the third largest district in Nebraska. The district currently has four high schools: Millard North High School, Millard West High School, Millard South High School, and Millard Horizon High School.\n\n\n\nWillowdale enrolls about 405 students and is notable for its website, WillowWeb, which features blogs, photos, and announcements. Radio WillowWeb is a podcast produced by Willowdale students and teachers. It was the first podcast by an elementary school in the United States and covers a range of educational topics.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2165715", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165715", "title": "Fire on the Mountain (1996 film)", "text": "Fire on the Mountain (1996 film)\n\nFire on the Mountain is a 1996 documentary about the 10th Mountain Division during World War II. The film follows the division from its training at Camp Hale in Colorado through its campaign in Italy. The end of the film shows the careers of 10th Mountain Division veterans, who were involved in starting the ski industry in Colorado. The film includes interviews of several of these veterans, including environmentalist David Brower.\n\n"}
{"id": "2165718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165718", "title": "Boston Store", "text": "Boston Store\n\nThe Boston Store Inc. is an online retailer and former department store chain owned by The Bon-Ton stores. It was founded in 1897 in Milwaukee, Wisconsin.\n\nThroughout the 1920s, and 1930s the Boston Store was run by Philip Irving Stone. His nephew, Irving Stone, worked as a manager and, beginning in 1927, dated Broadway ingenue and later MGM movie star Jeanette MacDonald for a time.\n\nIn December 1933, 600 of the store's 1000 employees walked out in a famous White Collar union strike.\n\nJulian Simon's control of Boston Store was sold to Federated Department Stores in 1948 and under Federated, branch stores were opened in several Wisconsin cities including Oshkosh, Sheboygan and Manitowoc. Ownership later passed to the Bergner's chain of Peoria, Illinois in 1985 (itself owned by Switzerland-based Maus Frères S.A., a retail conglomerate controlled by the Maus and Nordmann Families); soon afterward Bergner's relocated its headquarters to Milwaukee.\n\nAs cross-town rival Gimbels was being dismantled in 1986, Boston Store acquired three Gimbel's branches at Southgate Mall, Milwaukee, East Towne Mall, Madison and Mayfair Mall, Wauwatosa.\n\nIn 1989, P.A. Bergner bought Chicago's Carson Pirie Scott for over $450 million. Carson's itself had just bought Minneapolis-based Donaldson's in November 1987. With this, Bergner's was a major Midwestern presence, with stores in five states: Wisconsin, Illinois, Minnesota, Indiana, and Iowa, operating under the Bergner's, Carson Pirie Scott and Boston Store names.\n\nIn 1991, Bergner's filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy, with Maus Freres S.A. losing control of the company in a bitter fight. In 1993, the organization emerged from bankruptcy court under the name Carson Pirie Scott & Co, trading under the symbol CPS. Eventually, Proffitt's Inc., now Saks Incorporated, bought Carson Pirie Scott in 1998 and its purchase increased the northern presence of the Saks Incorporated company.\n\nIn July 2005, Saks completed the sale of its Southern Department Store Group consisting of Proffitt's and McRae's to Charlotte, North Carolina-based Belk, Inc. On October 31, 2005, Saks announced that it was selling Boston Store and its other Northern Department Store Group stores (Carson Pirie Scott, Bergner's, Younkers, and Herberger's) to Bon-Ton Stores in a $1.1 billion deal. The transaction was completed on March 6, 2006. Younkers stores in the Milwaukee area were rebranded Boston Stores, simplifying the company's ads to feature one Bon-Ton banner per market.\n\nOn April 17, 2018, two liquidators, Great American Group and Tiger Capital Group, won an auction for the company, with a bid estimated at $775.5 million. Stores were closed within 10 to 12 weeks.\n\nOn September 14, 2018 it was announced that Bostonstore.com had a homepage stating “We’re Back!”. An agreement had been signed the previous week by CSC Generation Holdings to use the rights to Bon-Ton and its subsidiaries. \n\nOn October 1, 2018 The Boston Store was operative online.\n"}
{"id": "2165720", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165720", "title": "Scott Hartnell", "text": "Scott Hartnell\n\nScott Wesley Hartnell (born April 18, 1982) is a Canadian former professional ice hockey left winger who played 17 seasons in the National Hockey League (NHL) with the Nashville Predators, Philadelphia Flyers and Columbus Blue Jackets. Hartnell was born in Regina, Saskatchewan, but grew up in Lloydminster, Alberta.\n\nPrior to entering the NHL, Hartnell played two seasons of Canadian Junior-A hockey for the Lloydminster Blazers of the Alberta Junior Hockey League (AJHL). He then spent two seasons playing for the Prince Albert Raiders of the Western Hockey League (WHL). In the 1999–2000 season, Hartnell, as captain, led the team with 82 points and was named team MVP. He was also chosen to play for Bobby Orr in the Canadian Hockey League (CHL) Top Prospects Game.\n\nHartnell was the sixth overall pick in the 2000 NHL Entry Draft by the Nashville Predators. Considered a gritty power forward at tall, the left winger was the youngest player in franchise history to play for the Predators, as well as the youngest player in the NHL in the 2000–01 season. Hartnell's first NHL game was played in Japan against the Pittsburgh Penguins as part of a two-game set planned by the NHL to raise international interest in the League. Hartnell has stated that this game marks his favourite NHL moment.\nThrough six seasons with the Predators, Hartnell played in 453 games, accumulating 93 goals and 118 assists. During the 2003–04 season, Hartnell had three game-winning goals, two of which came in overtime. In his first career playoff series against the Detroit Red Wings in 2004, he tied the team high with three points (one goal and two assists).\n\nDuring the 2004–05 NHL lock-out, Hartnell helped Vålerenga win the Norwegian Championship, scoring 12 goals in 11 playoff games.\n\nIn the 2005–06 season, Hartnell accumulated a career-high 25 goals and 23 assists for a total of 48 points. Additionally, Hartnell scored his first career hat-trick on February 4, 2006, in a game against the Chicago Blackhawks. The first two goals of the trifecta were scored against Adam Munro, with the final goal coming against Craig Anderson. The following season, Hartnell continued to produce similar offensive numbers, also setting franchise records for career penalty minutes (461) and for the fastest two goals by an individual (23 seconds). All of this was despite a broken foot, which resulted in Hartnell missing all of March.\n\nOn June 18, 2007, Hartnell, along with Kimmo Timonen, were traded to the Philadelphia Flyers in exchange for a first-round pick previously acquired from Nashville for Peter Forsberg. Hartnell almost immediately signed a six-year contract worth $25.2 million.\n\nIn his first season with the Flyers, Hartnell was one of a series of five Flyers suspended for questionable on-ice hits. Specifically, Hartnell was suspended for two games as a result of a hit on Andrew Alberts of the Boston Bruins. Additionally, Hartnell's offensive production slowed initially. While he registered his first point as a Flyer in the home opener, his first goal (an empty netter) did not come until the 16th game of the season. However, his scoring began to increase around mid-season. On January 8, 2007, in a game against the Atlanta Thrashers, Hartnell scored his 100th career goal. Two days later, Hartnell was credited with his first career natural hat-trick. He scored three goals in a row in a 6–2 victory over the New York Rangers, all against Henrik Lundqvist; The first and third were scored at even strength, while the second came on the power play. He managed yet another hat-trick on January 19, 2008, including the game's winner, and an assist against Rick DiPietro of the New York Islanders.\n\nThe 2008–09 season was successful for Hartnell. Playing mostly on the left wing of centre Jeff Carter, he posted a career-high in all offensive categories, scoring 30 goals and 30 assists for 60 points in 82 games. However, Hartnell also led the NHL in minor penalties that season, with 54. The season also saw him score two hat-tricks within nine days of each other; the first came against the Carolina Hurricanes on December 11, 2008, with the second coming against the Washington Capitals on December 20.\n\nAfter a disappointing 2009–10 regular season that saw Hartnell's numbers dip to 44 points (14 goals and 30 assists), Hartnell came alive in the playoffs when placed on a line with Daniel Brière and Ville Leino. This line helped lead the Flyers to their first Stanley Cup Final since 1997. Hartnell played in all 23 games for the Flyers and scored eight goals (including two in game six of the finals) and nine assists, good enough for sixth on the Eastern Conference-winning Flyers with 17 points.\n\nHartnell continued to produce on a line with Brière and Leino through the 2010–11 season with 24 goals and 25 assists in 82 games. However, the Flyers struggled in the second half of the season and found an early playoff exit. Hartnell himself struggled at the beginning of the following season, with only two points in his first seven games, but would heat up after being placed on a line with Jaromír Jágr and Claude Giroux. On December 13, 2011, Hartnell scored his 200th career goal against Washington Capitals goaltender Tomáš Vokoun, which also was Hartnell's sixth goal in six games.\n\nHartnell finished the 2011–12 season with a career-high 37 goals. In a late regular season game against Pittsburgh, Hartnell mocked a Penguins fan dressed as Hulk Hogan sitting directly behind the Flyers bench. This caused the Flyers organization to create a special T-shirt with Hartnell's \"Hogan\" gesture on it, which was given to every fan in attendance for Game 3 of the Eastern Conference Quarterfinals against the same Penguins.\n\nThe 2012–13 season proved to be one of the worst seasons Hartnell had experienced in his professional career. After a year in which he scored career highs in goals (37), points (67) and plus-minus rating (+19) and tied a then-career high in assists (30), Hartnell produced just eight goals and three assists for 11 points on the season. He was held scoreless in 25 out of the 32 games he played during the season, while also missing 16 games due to an injury. In addition to his poor scoring, his play caused him to be taken off of his normal line at times, which was centred by Flyers captain Claude Giroux. Moreover, to cap off a disappointing individual season, the Flyers missed out on the year's playoffs.\n\nOn June 23, 2014, Hartnell was traded to the Columbus Blue Jackets in exchange for R. J. Umberger and a fourth-round draft pick. In the 2014–15 season, on November 14, 2014 Hartnell made his return with Columbus to Philadelphia. He enjoyed a productive season with 28 goals and 32 assists in his first year with the Blue Jackets.\n\nAfter his third season with the Blue Jackets in 2016–17, and having collected 146 points in 234 games with the club, the Blue Jackets in need of additional cap space and aimed towards improving their depth opted to buy out Hartnell from the remaining two years of his contract on June 29, 2017.\n\nOn July 1, 2017, Hartnell returned to the Predators, signing a one-year, $1 million contract. In his return, Hartnell recorded 13 goals and 24 points in 62 games.\n\nOn October 1, 2018, Hartnell announced his retirement from professional hockey after seventeen seasons.\n\nHartnell has displayed bizarre on-ice and off-ice behaviour from time to time. He stole the glove off New York Rangers forward Chris Drury during a game on January 31, 2008. Another glove-related incident occurred on December 2, 2008, when Hartnell threw his glove at Tampa Bay Lightning forward Ryan Malone in an attempt to stop a breakaway, resulting in a penalty shot for Malone. Hartnell is also known for his long, bushy hair. On March 26, 2009, the Flyers held \"Hartnell Wig Night,\" where fans attending the game were given wigs resembling his hair. On October 23, 2010, Hartnell revealed he had cut his bushy hair off and donated it to Locks of Love. \n\nIn the closing seconds of a game against the Pittsburgh Penguins on October 9, 2009, Hartnell and Penguins defenceman Kris Letang engaged in a scrum, resulting in a two-minute minor penalty for roughing for Hartnell. After the fight, Letang left the ice holding his hand and told the referee that Hartnell had bit him on his hand. The NHL reviewed the broadcast footage of the incident, finding \"no clear video evidence\" of the biting and opted not to suspend Hartnell for the incident.\n\nA previous Penguins-related incident showcased Hartnell's good nature in an interaction with a Penguins fan taunting him with an orange wig and Flyers number 19 jersey bearing the name \"Fartsmell\" in a game played in Pittsburgh on March 22, 2009. Hartnell autographed that jersey (signing it \"To my biggest fan!! Your bud Scott Fartsmell 19\") as well as giving his game-used stick to that fan. Similar to a Gordie Howe hat trick, a Harttrick occurs when a player has a goal, a fight and a fall in a game. During the 2012 Stanley Cup Playoffs, Hartnell was seen mocking a Penguins fan dressed as Hulk Hogan behind the Flyers bench, which drew laughter from the television broadcast team working the game.\n\nHartnell's parents, Bill and Joy Hartnell, are both teachers in Lloydminster, Alberta. His nickname is Bird Dogg. Hartnell is, together with his former Flyers teammates Kimmo Timonen and Sami Kapanen, one of the owners of the Finnish Liiga hockey team KalPa. In 2009, Hartnell was crowned as the NHL Poker Champion, defeating Roberto Luongo in the final of the tournament.\n\nIn 2012, Hartnell appeared in the movie \"This is 40\" alongside James van Riemsdyk, Ian Laperrière and Matt Carle.\n\nIn early 2012, Hartnell founded the #HartnellDown Foundation as a way to provide support to charities that support hockey, children and communities around the United States and Canada. It started as a Twitter following to keep track of the number of times Hartnell would fall down during the NHL season. When Hartnell himself joined Twitter, rather than taking offence, he embraced the catchphrase and began to sell merchandise that had it printed on it with the proceeds going to Hartnell's favourite hockey-related charities. At the 2012 NHL All-Star Game, Hartnell donated $1,000 to charity for every \"#hartnelldown\" mention that was tweeted during the competition.\n\n"}
{"id": "2165722", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165722", "title": "Philoi", "text": "Philoi\n\nPhiloi (; plural of φίλος \"philos\" \"friend\") is a word that roughly translates to \"friend.\" This type of friendship is based on the characteristically Greek value for reciprocity as opposed to a friendship that exists as an end to itself. \n\nThere is no exact translation for \"philoi\" other than the word \"friend\" (separate from \"xenos\", or \"guest-friend,\" often used to describe a stranger one is kind or respectful to). The meaning of the word \"philoi\" is deeply rooted in the concept of reciprocity; encompassing the exchange of favors and support, in addition to a profound sense of duty to each other. \"Philoi\" typically encompassed family members foremost, with the addition of friends or members of society with whom obligations, loyalty or other established ties existed. \n\nWithin the Greek value-system there was an explicit distinction between friend (\"philoi\") and the enemy (\"echthroi\"), and further, a prevalent and constant awareness of both how to treat and one can expect to be treated by each. In fact, every member of society could be classified into three distinct groups: \"philoi,\" people one owed obligations to and from whom favors were returned, \"echthroi\", those to whom one was hostile and from whom they expected hostility, and \"medetoeroi,\" outsiders who fall under neither category and to whom no one owed anything. Such classifications are rooted in a fundamental belief in the principle of reciprocity, which continually reinforced that the man's duty was to aid his friends and to inflict damage onto his enemies. Further, there was great pride associated with not only helping \"philoi\" but also in harming one's \"echthroi,\" and the importance of fulfilling these two duties to upload an overarching, strict friend-enemy dichotomy is manifested in a variety of other aspects in Greek life, including literature, theatre and in court. \n\nThe importance of the \"philoi\"’s role, in particular within a larger cultural system that polarizes the \"philoi\" and \"ekhthroi\", is evident in trial processes in Ancient Greek courts. Trials sought to establish a winning and losing party instead of necessarily achieving a balanced, even-handed verdict. Contributing to this was the importance of witnesses in the Athenian courts despite never being cross-examined. Witnesses were oftentimes chosen not by who would be the most impartial, but instead close \"philoi\" of those involved. Thus the average Athenian man's dependence on his \"philoi\" permeated even trial proceedings and outcomes, and as described by Isaeus in \"On the Estate of Pyrrhos\", “You all know that when we are acting without concealment and need witnesses, we normally make use of our close relatives and intimate friends as witnesses of such actions.”\n\nWith the exception of festivals, women had limited roles outside of the home and therefore had finite opportunities to cultivate reciprocal relationships with their \"philoi\" and \"echthroi\" in the same way men in Greece did. As a result, the woman's \"philoi\" consisted solely of those in her own home. \n\nThe practice of reciprocal obligation amongst \"philoi\" and overarching strict friend-enemy dichotomy characteristic of Greek value-systems manifest themselves in Homeric heroes such as Agamemnon and Achilles in Homer’s \"Iliad.\" The prevalence of warfare in which heroes compete against each other to prove their superiority evidences this dichotomy; that there must be two explicit opposing sides, and both parties must act in accordance to their duty to harm one another, typically in a public display. \n\nThis definition of \"philoi\" is cemented in and often discussed in various philosophical works from this time too, and in particular those of Aristotle. In \"Nicomachean Ethics\", Aristotle writes that “to be friends, then, they must be mutually recognized as bearing goodwill and wishing well to each other,” indicating that a \"philoi\" is characterized by not necessarily fondness for someone, but a concern for one another that is assuredly reciprocated. He explains that people inherently are fond of those who treat them well or who they believe have the intention, and further, that people usually love those who hate the same people they do, hence the need for \"philoi\" on your side, as opposed to the \"echthroi\"’s side, who will defend you. Aristotle writes that “friendship is likened to one's love for oneself” but that \"philoi\" nonetheless exist “for the sake of some use to be made of him,\" so they appear to serve both self-serving and altruistic intentions.\n\nIn ancient Macedonia, \"philoi\" was a title to the royal friends, advisors of the king (basileus). They were the personal choice of the king and they might have come from anywhere in the Greek world. The title became common among the Hellenistic kingdoms. In the Seleucid Empire a number of ranks can be traced; \"Protoi Philoi, First Friends\" and \"Timomenoi Philoi, Honoured Friends\" organized in various orders. In inscriptions the phrase \"the King, his Friends and the army\" signifies their important role.\n\n"}
{"id": "2165723", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165723", "title": "Ostrau, Saxony", "text": "Ostrau, Saxony\n\nOstrau is a municipality in the district of Mittelsachsen in Saxony in Germany.\n"}
{"id": "2165724", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165724", "title": "Visalia Country Club", "text": "Visalia Country Club\n\nThe Visalia Country Club is a golf only club in Visalia, California.\n\nIt is a relatively flat course with medium-sized greens. The greens are traditionally known for being real smooth and fast. The oak and pine trees form tree-lines along the fairways. There are grass and sand bunkers around the greens and on the fairways. There are about four to five bunkers per hole. Water hazards (three ponds) come into play on six holes. The signature hole is #16, a 150-yard, par 3, requiring a tee shot over water to a green that is surrounded by trees and bunkers.\n\nOn January 27, 1922 a meeting was held in the Visalia Municipal Auditorium for the purposes of organizing a golf club. Mr. Harvey V.E. Gilmer spearheaded the effort. The lack of awareness of the sport at that time made it somewhat of a challenge to arrange the initial subscriptions, but upon collecting twenty-five hundred dollars, property was leased from Dick Hyde. The first membership sold for fifty dollars, and the dues were five dollars per month.\n\nThe Visalia Golf Club began with three holes, still existing today as numbers 11, 12 and 13. \"Greens\" were oiled sand, which needed smoothing before every putt. The tee areas were asphalt slabs. In 1926, six more holes were added and the sand greens were replaced with grass greens. Two years later the original clubhouse was erected. Later in the year, a clubhouse building committee was formed; plans were drawn up & accepted. W.R. Spalding (whose house still stands today in downtown and serves as one of Visalia’s two B&B’s) donated lumber for the new clubhouse. Members were asked to provide additional donations, and were enthusiastically willing – even non-members donated. The original clubhouse and greens had been constructed for a cost of $6400. The original clubhouse measured 16 feet by 24 feet, and burned to the ground in 1927. It was re-built the same year.\n\nIn April 1942, during World War II, Bob Hope, Bing Crosby, Johnny Weissmuller and an outstanding amateur from Los Angeles, Johnny Dawson, played an exhibition golf match at the club. While no records survive to document the victor of the match, the real winner was the Visalia Chapter of the American Red Cross, to whom the proceeds were donated.\n\nThe design of the fairways was determined in part by the famous Jennings Ditch which wanders throughout the entire length of the course. In 1950, Mill Creek, which supplied water for the Jennings Ditch, was diverted, leaving a dry ditch which is still visible throughout the course and particularly along the right side of the #9 fairway and the lake between #17 and #18. In that same year, the official name of the club was changed to Visalia Country Club. By 1952, the club added nine more holes to reach the present eighteen. In 1953, a new clubhouse was built at the site of today’s snack bar – the cost of the new clubhouse increased from that of the original to a reported $120,000, and was entirely financed voluntarily by donations from the members.\nFrom 1962 until 1965, the club hosted the Visalia Open on the LPGA Tour. Many famous women golfers played in the events, including Mickey Wright, Betsy Rawls, Kathy Whitworth, Patty Berg and Judy Rankin. When the LPGA raised the required prize money to $15,000 the membership concluded the investment was too great and ended their relationship with the tour.\n\nThe oldest Valley Oak Tree in Visalia sits right next to the #18 tee box. The estimated age of the oak tree is 276 years old.\n\n"}
{"id": "2165726", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165726", "title": "Excalibur Electronics", "text": "Excalibur Electronics\n\nExcalibur Electronics, Inc. is an American electronics company established in 1992 with headquarters in Miami, Florida.\nThe company manufactures such items as chess clocks, chess computers, radio controlled cars, flashlights, fans, and many other handheld electronic games.\nExcalibur is a frequent supplier of products to Woot.\n\nhttps://www.bloomberg.com/research/stocks/private/snapshot.asp?privcapId=30791605\n"}
{"id": "2165728", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165728", "title": "Pacifastacus fortis", "text": "Pacifastacus fortis\n\nPacifastacus fortis (known as the Shasta crayfish or placid crayfish) is an endangered crayfish species endemic to Shasta County, California, where it is found only in isolated spots on the Pit River and Fall River Mills.\n\n\"P. fortis\" is thick and stocky, with relatively heavy chelae. It is usually dark brown dorsally with bright orange areas on its underside. It grows about 2-4 inches long. It lives in cold, clear, rocky areas of the mountain rivers, and feeds on the slime coating the rocks. The animal requires a constant, steady, and untainted flow of fresh water to survive.\n\n\"Pacifastacus fortis\" is listed as a critically endangered species on the IUCN Red List, and an endangered species under the Endangered Species Act. It has always had a very small native range, and that range has been significantly fragmented by such human activities as damming, mining, and agriculture. The signal crayfish, a recently introduced species, has outcompeted \"P. fortis\" in much of its range. The Pit River Fish Hatchery was closed to protect this species.\n\n"}
{"id": "2165731", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165731", "title": "Manuel Solís Palma", "text": "Manuel Solís Palma\n\nManuel Solís Palma (3 December 1917 in Los Santos Province – 6 November 2009) was the acting president of Panama from 26 February 1988 to 1 September 1989, under the military rule of Manuel Noriega. He served as education minister in several administrations, and worked on the 1968 presidential campaign of Arnulfo Arias Madrid.\n\nIn February 1988, Noriega promoted Solís from education minister to president after the firing of president Eric Arturo Delvalle. The US administration of president Ronald Reagan refused to recognize Solís or the diplomats representing him as legitimate. In May, the administration offered a deal in which Noriega would leave office in exchange for the US dropping drug charges against him; however, the Panamanian military rejected the terms, which gave no guarantee that Solís would retain power. Solís served until 1 September 1989, shortly before the US invasion of Panama which deposed Noriega. He was later described as one of a series of Noriega's puppet rulers, nicknamed the \"Kleenex presidents\" in Panama due to their \"disposability\". In 1994, he was pardoned by President Guillermo Endara for any crimes committed during the Noriega years.\n\nIn the administration of Martín Torrijos (2004–2009), Solís served again as education minister.\n\nHe died on 6 November 2009 from pulmonary edema in Panama City.\n\n"}
{"id": "2165732", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165732", "title": "Snag (ecology)", "text": "Snag (ecology)\n\nIn forest ecology, a snag refers to a standing, dead or dying tree, often missing a top or most of the smaller branches. In freshwater ecology it refers to trees, branches, and other pieces of naturally occurring wood found sunken in rivers and streams; it is also known as coarse woody debris. When used in manufacturing, especially in Scandinavia, they are often called \"dead wood\" and in Finland \"kelo wood\".\n\nSnags are an important structural component in forest communities, making up 10–20% of all trees present in old-growth tropical, temperate, and boreal forests. Snags and downed coarse woody debris represent a large portion of the woody biomass in a healthy forest.\n\nIn temperate forests, snags provide critical habitat for more than 100 species of bird and mammal, and snags are often called 'wildlife trees' by foresters. Dead, decaying wood supports a rich community of decomposers like bacteria and fungi, insects, and other invertebrates. These organisms and their consumers, along with the structural complexity of cavities, hollows, and broken tops make snags important habitat for birds, bats, and small mammals, which in turn feed larger mammalian predators.\n\nSnags are optimal habitat for primary cavity nesters such as woodpeckers which create the majority of cavities used by secondary cavity users in forest ecosystems. Woodpeckers excavate cavities for more than 80 other species and the health of their populations relies on snags. Most snag-dependent birds and mammals are insectivorous and represent a major portion of the insectivorous forest fauna, and are important factors in controlling forest insect populations. There are many instances in which birds reduced outbreak populations of forest insects, such as woodpeckers affecting outbreaks of southern hardwood borers and Engelmann spruce beetles.\nSnag creation occurs naturally as trees die due to old age, disease, drought, or wildfire. A snag undergoes a series of changes from the time the tree dies until final collapse, and each stage in the decay process has particular value to certain wildlife species. Snag persistence depends on two factors, the size of the stem, and the durability of the wood of the species concerned. The snags of some large conifers, such as Giant Sequoia and Coast Redwood on the Pacific Coast of North America, and the Alerce of Patagonia, can remain intact for 100 years or more, becoming progressively shorter with age, while other snags with rapidly decaying wood, such as aspen and birch, break up and collapse in 2–10 years.\n\nSnag Forests, or Complex Early Seral Forests, are ecosystems that occupy potentially forested sites after a stand-replacement disturbance and before re-establishment of a closed-forest canopy. They are generated by natural disturbances such as wildfire or insect outbreaks that reset ecological succession processes and follow a pathway that is influenced by biological legacies (e.g., large live trees and snags downed logs, seed banks, resprout tissue, fungi, and other live and dead biomass) that were not removed during the initial disturbance.\n\nWater hunting birds like the osprey or kingfishers can be found near water, perched in a snag tree, or feeding upon their fish catch.\n\nIn freshwater ecology in Australia and the United States, the term snag is used to refer to the trees, branches and other pieces of naturally occurring wood found in a sunken form in rivers and streams. Such snags have been identified as being critical for shelter and as spawning sites for fish, and are one of the few hard substrates available for biofilm growth supporting aquatic invertebrates in lowland rivers flowing through alluvial flood plains. Snags are important as sites for biofilm growth and for shelter and feeding of aquatic invertebrates in both lowland and upland rivers and streams.In Australia, the role of freshwater snags has been largely ignored until recently, and more than one million snags have been removed from the Murray-Darling basin. Large tracts of the lowland reaches of the Murray-Darling system are now devoid of the snags that native fish like Murray cod require for shelter and breeding. The damage such wholesale snag removal has caused is enormous but difficult to quantify, however some quantification attempts have been made.\nMost snags in these systems are river red gum snags. As the dense wood of river red gum is almost impervious to rot it is thought that some of the river red gum snags removed in past decades may have been several thousand years old.\n\nAlso known as \"deadheads\", partially submerged snags posed hazards to early riverboat navigation and commerce. If hit, snags punctured the wooden hulls used in the 19th century and early 20th century. Snags were, in fact, the most commonly encountered hazard, especially in the early years of steamboat travel. In the United States, the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers operated \"snagboats\" such as the \"W. T. Preston\" in the Puget Sound of Washington State and the \"Montgomery\" in the rivers of Alabama to pull out and clear snags. Starting in 1824, there were successful efforts to remove snags from the Mississippi and its tributaries. By 1835, a lieutenant reported to the Chief of Engineers that steamboat travel had become much safer, but by the mid-1840s the appropriations for snag removal dried up and snags re-accumulated until after the Civil War.\n\nIn Scandinavia and Finland snags, invariably pine trees, known in Finnish as \"kelo\" and in Swedish as \"torraka\", are collected for the production of different objects, from furniture to entire log houses. Commercial enterprises market them abroad as \"dead wood\" or in Finland as \"kelo wood\". They have been especially prized for their silver-grey weathered surface in the manufacture of vernacular or national romantic products. The suppliers of \"dead wood\" emphasise its age: the wood has developed with dehydration in the dry coldness of the subarctic zones, the tree having stopped growing after some 300–400 years, and the tree has remained upright for another few hundred years. \"Dead wood\" logs are easier to transport and handle than normal logs due to their lightness.\n\n"}
{"id": "2165744", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165744", "title": "T. F. Green Airport station", "text": "T. F. Green Airport station\n\nT. F. Green Airport is a train station and intermodal facility in Warwick, Rhode Island, on the Northeast Corridor, adjacent to T. F. Green Airport. It extends the MBTA Commuter Rail Providence/Stoughton Line from Boston, which previously only went as far as the Providence train station. The station was completed in October 2010 and MBTA service began on December 6, 2010. On November 14, 2011, service expanded to 10 weekday trains in each direction. Trips to and from Boston's South Station take 75 to 90 minutes. \n\nThe station's primary purpose is to serve local commuters to Providence and Boston, but it will also bring passengers and employees to and from the airport. The station also makes it possible to move between T.F. Green and Logan International Airport in about two hours via subway and commuter rail. Amtrak trains cannot and do not serve the station because the track that serves the single platform is not electrified. Funding was not provided for the necessary track and electrical work, although long-range plans call for this infrastructure to be provided.\n\nA state study of rail corridors was completed in 1994 and the Northeast Corridor was designated as the highest-priority line for commuter service to Providence. An addendum in 1995 projected daily ridership from a Warwick station to be 454 in 2000 and 529 in 2020. An operations plan was released in 2001, and environmental assessment was completed in 2003.\n\nThe station's ceremonial groundbreaking took place on July 17, 2006, but construction was delayed by negotiations with Amtrak over the agreement to allow the MBTA to run commuter trains on Amtrak-owned tracks. Site preparation began in September 2007 and construction began in late 2008 or early 2009. The station was originally scheduled to open in late 2010, and construction was completed on schedule, with the opening ceremony taking place on October 27, 2010.\n\nOn October 13, 2010, the MBTA and the Rhode Island Department of Transportation signed an agreement enabling MBTA operations to the station to begin on December 6, 2010, initially with 6 inbound and 5 outbound trains each weekday. This service consisted of three peak-hour trains in each direction between T.F. Green and South Station, plus several off-peak shuttles to/from Providence. This was despite earlier concerns that service could be delayed pending completion of the Wickford Junction station and the siding there used to allow trains to reverse directions. However, the siding at T.F. Green was deemed sufficient for operations. In November 2011, service was increased significantly, with mid-day service and more rush hour trains. The line was extended 10 miles past T.F. Green with the opening of Wickford Junction station in April 2012.\n\nNormal service to T.F. Green Airport is weekday-only, with no regular weekend trains. Beginning on September 16, 2012, special Sunday trains serving New England Patriots games were extended from Providence to T.F. Green Airport. These trains run on game days only to Foxboro, which was not served by regular daily MBTA service. Game-day service was cut back to Providence in the 2019 season.\n\nDaily boardings were projected to reach 529 in 2020 by the 1995 analysis; this was halved to 245 in the 2003 Environmental Assessment. \n\nIn the first quarter of 2012, inbound ridership from the station averaged 149 riders per day, lower than state officials hoped. By July 2012, the count increased to more than 200 daily, even as passenger traffic at the airport decreased.\n\nBy early 2017, total ridership (boardings plus alightings) was 414. For the second half of 2017, the state offered free intrastate rides, primarily in an attempt to promote the under-utilized Wickford Junction station. The six-month promotion was expected to cost about $102,000. However, a 2018 count had just 227 daily boardings - barely increased from 2012.\n\nThe station includes a four-level, 3,500-space garage with facilities for airport car rental companies and park and ride commuters. The station is connected to the airport via an elevated 1,250-foot (380-meter) skywalk with moving sidewalks, known as the Interlink. Costs included:\n\nThe total cost of the T.F. Green amenities, plus an additional station at Wickford Junction was $336 million. The project sponsor was the Rhode Island Department of Transportation, which assembled funding consisting of:\n\n$20M of federal funding was earmarked by former Rhode Island senator Lincoln Chafee in the . \n\nAs part of the 1989 Pilgrim Partnership Agreement, Rhode Island provides capital funding (including some of its federal formula funds) for MBTA expansion in the state. (Rhode Island also gave the MBTA $11 million to cover capital costs for the T.F. Green project.) Massachusetts (through the MBTA) provides the operating subsidy for MBTA Commuter Rail service in return. Rhode Island also pays Amtrak to allow the MBTA to use its tracks.\n\nThe Rhode Island Airport Corporation, which runs T.F. Green Airport, will be responsible for repaying the bonds using revenues from car rental and commuter parking facilities.\n\nAlthough Amtrak owns the tracks through the station, T.F. Green Airport is not a stop on Amtrak's \"Northeast Regional\" or \"Acela Express\" trains. The station is on a third track built west of the existing two-track Northeast Corridor line, however the new track was not electrified due to lack of funding. All Amtrak trains currently operating on the Northeast Corridor require overhead electric power. Amtrak had requested a separate track for its trains, which was not built, and has also cited a lack of sufficient ridership for the stop to be economically sustainable. This may change with time. Long-term Amtrak plans call for a fourth track (as a second passing siding) with a second platform at the station for intrastate commuter service as well as possible future Amtrak use. The new siding and the current siding would need to have catenary wire extended over them in order for Amtrak trains to stop. In June 2019, a $2.8 million federal grant was awarded to fund preliminary engineering and environmental review work.\n\nCurrently, connections to Amtrak \"Northeast Regional\" and \"Acela Express\" trains can be made at Providence station, and to the \"Lake Shore Limited\" at South Station and Back Bay in Boston. Future plans call for MBTA service to be extended to Kingston, where passengers could connect to \"Northeast Regional\" trains.\n\nOne RIPTA bus route stops on Jefferson Boulevard at the station:\n\nThree routes stop on Post Road and at the airport terminal:\n\n"}
{"id": "2165750", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165750", "title": "Structure of the Argentine Army", "text": "Structure of the Argentine Army\n\nThe Structure of the Argentine Army follows below. As of 2019 the active force of the Argentine Army includes a total of eleven brigades:\n\n\nIn addition to the brigades, there is also a number of specialized formations:\n\nThe \"regiment\" and \"group\" designators actually denote battalion-sized units (\"regiment\" being used for infantry and cavalry units and \"group\" used for artillery units).\n\nSince the restoration of democracy in 1983, the Argentine Army was reduced both in number and budget and became a professional force. Some units were dissolved and other moved, including:\n\n\n\nThe Deputy Chief of the Army General Staff commands the following organizations and departments of the Argentine Army:\n\n\n\n\nThe Army Training and Enlistment Command is responsible for the training and preparation of the operational units of the Argentinian Army.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nPlease see list of Argentine Army units in the links detailed in next section (especially \"SAORBATS\").\n\n"}
{"id": "2165753", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165753", "title": "Ruben S. Ayala High School", "text": "Ruben S. Ayala High School\n\nSenator Ruben S. Ayala Senior High School, often abbreviated as Ayala High School or AHS, is located in Chino Hills, California and is one of the four comprehensive high schools in the Chino Valley Unified School District. The school was established in 1990 and named after California state senator Ruben S. Ayala. It received the 2011 California Distinguished School award and the 2015 California Gold Ribbon School Award.\n\nThe 17 AP classes offered for the 2014–15 year are:\nAP Biology,\nAP Calculus AB,\nAP Calculus BC,\nAP Chemistry,\nAP Chinese Language and Culture,\nAP English Language,\nAP English Literature,\nAP French Language,\nAP Macroeconomics/AP Microeconomics,\nAP Music Theory,\nAP Physics B,\nAP Psychology,\nAP Spanish Language,\nAP Spanish Literature,\nAP Studio Art,\nAP US Government and Politics, and\nAP US History.\n\nThe languages offered at Ayala are American Sign Language, Chinese, French, and Spanish.\n\nThe average class sizes for the 2010–2011 school year are:\n\nEnrollment at Ayala High School started out at around 1,000 freshmen and sophomores in 1991 and grew to 3,696 students before Chino Hills High School opened in 2001. After that, enrollment dropped to around 2,400 students, with a graduating class of about 600 students each year.\n\nOf the 500 AP exams given out to 300 students in the 2010–2011 school year, 2.20% scored 3 or above.\n\nThe following table lists the percent of students who scored Proficient or above on their STAR Test.\nThe following are the percentage of those who passed the CAHSEE test in their 10th Grade:\nAyala's API score in the 2011–2012 school year was 845, 13 points up from the year before (2010–2011).\n\nThe graduation rate for this school in the 2010–2011 school year is 98.3%.\n\nAyala was home to a SkillsUSA chapter. The last engineering/architecture teacher, Mr. Trent Munsey, retired after the 2009–2010 school year. Ayala also participated in the Solar Cup, a competition in which schools build a solar-powered boat from scratch.\nIn the 2010 SkillsUSA California State Conference, 9 students received gold medals, 7 students received silver medals, and 1 student received a bronze medal.\n\nAyala High School was ranked 1,183rd in the nation in 2006 by Newsweek Magazine.\n\nIn April 2010, Ayala's USB Leadership Program received the California Association of Student Leaders Outstanding Activities Program Award.\nAyala High School received the 2011 California Distinguished School award.\n\nDrama has 10–12 productions per year. There are 3 main stage shows: Fall Drama, Comedy, and Musical. There are also 3 shows produced by the Advanced Arts classes. There are also at least 3 shows produced by the Beginning Theater Arts Classes. Finally, there is one production and performance by the highest level class. \n\n\n\nLegend: Qtr – Quarterfinals, SF – Semifinals\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2165754", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165754", "title": "Virginia Bell (actress)", "text": "Virginia Bell (actress)\n\nVirginia Bell (August 14, 1934 – July 18, 2010) was a topless model and actress.\n\nBell was born Virginia Miriam Beck in Montrose, California on August 14, 1934. Her parents were John Charles Beck and Freda Yugend. She graduated high school in 1949. She was married a short time to Charles Merle Bell, and then to Eli Jackson, who would go on to produce some of her earliest movies.\n\nBell began her career in burlesque at age 22. By the 1950s, Bell began posing for men's magazines.\nVirginia had one starring role in a feature film, \"Bell, Bare and Beautiful\" (1963), which was the product of legendary sexploitation team of Herschell Gordon Lewis and David Friedman. It was made to fulfill a request by her husband, Eli Jackson. In it, Virginia plays a burlesque dancer pursued by Lewis regular Thomas Wood. But his attempts at finding true love with the \"girl of his dreams\" are thwarted by her gangster boyfriend (played by David Friedman). Wood gets around this speedbump by tracking Virginia down at the nudist camp she frequents, which is where at least half the film takes place.\nVirginia would make another appearance in \"Lullaby of Bareland\" (1964), a series of three shorter segments spliced together to flesh out the runtime. Virginia's contribution is a lengthy striptease routine.\nAside from feature films, Virginia appeared in many nudie loops, which can be found in the video series, \"Reel Classics\", and in the \"Big Bust Loops\" and \"Super Boobs\" series from Something Weird Video.\nIn the early ‘60s, Bell had three children by her husband Jackson: Pierre Joseph Jackson, b. 1961, Tyrone Eli Jackson b.1962 and Todd George Jackson b. 1964. After she and Eli divorced, she was married to Alexander White until his death in 2004.\n\nBell retired from adult entertainment in the early ‘70s and lived a quiet life until her death on July 19, 2010.\n"}
{"id": "2165760", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165760", "title": "The Far Country", "text": "The Far Country\n\nThe Far Country is a 1955 American Technicolor Western romance film directed by Anthony Mann and starring James Stewart, Ruth Roman, Walter Brennan and Corinne Calvet. Written by Borden Chase, the film is about a self-minded adventurer who locks horns with an evil, corrupt judge while driving cattle to Dawson, Yukon Territory. It is one of the few Westerns, others include \"The Spoilers\" and \"North to Alaska\", to be set in Alaska, although it was not filmed there. This was the fourth western film collaboration between Anthony Mann and James Stewart.\n\nIn 1896, Jeff Webster (James Stewart) hears of the Klondike gold rush and he and friend Ben Tatem (Walter Brennan) decide to drive a herd of cattle to Dawson City, Yukon. On the way, he annoys self-appointed Judge Gannon (John McIntire) by interrupting a hanging in Skagway, so Gannon unilaterly confiscates his herd. After signing on to assist in taking supplies to Dawson, Jeff and Ben return to town to take the animals back to make them a part of the caravan and take off with Gannon and his men in hot pursuit. After crossing the border into Canada, Jeff uses a few well-placed warning shots to persuade Gannon's gang to give up the chase, but the judge promises to hang Jeff when he returns thru Skagway.\n\nWhen Jeff gets to Dawson, he finds a widespread benign lawlessness, and ignores it as none of his business. He auctions off his herd for $2 per pound ($/lb today) to new arrival Ronda Castle who had hired him, a saloon owner and one of Gannon's business associates, when she outbids Hominy, Grits and Molasses, co-owners of the local hash house. Both Ronda and French-Canadian gamine Renee Vallon are strongly attracted to Jeff. Now looking for their next adventure, Jeff and Ben use $40,000 ($ million today) of their proceeds to buy an existing gold claim, soon doubling their money.\n\nRonda sets up a saloon in partnership with Gannon, who begins cheating the miners out of their claims. Gannon and his gunmen show up to grab their share (and then some), making Dawson much more dangerous. Jeff stays out of it, instead planning to sneak out by river while Gannon is otherwise occupied. However, Gannon is tipped off when Ben buys extra coffee for the long trip; his men kill Ben and wound Jeff, finally forcing him to take sides.\n\nJeff calls Gannon out to settle the dispute man to man, but the villain arranges an ambush. Ronda rushes out to warn Jeff and is fatally shot in the back. Jeff kills Gannon in the ensuing gunfight and the rest of his gang agree to leave town, rather than fight all the fed-up longtime residents, who have finally found their courage and have armed themselves to directly face and resist the gang.\n\n\nThe character of Gannon may be loosely based on that of Soapy Smith, a confidence artist and gang leader who ran the town of Skagway during the Alaska Gold Rush. He was killed in a gunfight, although not as shown in the movie. The cattle were driven to Seattle, shipped to Skagway, and then driven further to Dawson, to total about 1,500 miles driven distance. \n\n\nThe film was first released in the summer of 1954 throughout the UK. It would be released in the US in February 1955.\nStewart took a percentage of the profits. In 1955, William Goetz estimated that Stewart had earned $300,000 from the film.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2165765", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165765", "title": "David Weprin", "text": "David Weprin\n\nDavid I. Weprin (born May 2, 1956) is a Democratic member of the New York State Assembly, representing District 24 in Queens since 2010. He was previously a member of the New York City Council, representing district 23. He is also the former Deputy Superintendent of the New York State Banking Commission and former Chairman of New York's Securities Industry Association.\n\nOn September 13, 2011, Weprin lost the special election to the US House of Representatives to fill Anthony Weiner's former seat in 9th congressional district to Republican Bob Turner. Weprin's defeat by a little known Republican candidate in a heavily Democratic district was interpreted as a rejection of the entrenched patronage and nepotism that plagues the New York City and State political scene.\n\nWeprin comes from a Jewish family of Democratic politicians. His parents were Sylvia (Matz) and New York State Assembly Speaker Saul Weprin, and his younger brother is the former New York State Assemblyman and former New York City Councilman Mark Weprin. Born in Queens on May 2, 1956, Weprin has lived in the Hollis-Jamaica area of Queens his entire life. He is a graduate of Jamaica High School. He received a cum laude bachelor's degree in Political Science from the University at Albany, SUNY, and a law degree from Hofstra University School of Law.\n\nIn 1983, then Governor Mario Cuomo named Weprin the Deputy Superintendent of Banks and Secretary of the Banking Board for New York State, a position responsible for regulating more than 3,000 financial institutions and financial service firms in New York State.\n\nAfter leaving the Banking Board, Weprin held a variety of leadership positions at Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette; Kidder Peabody; Paine Webber, Inc. and Advest, Inc. While in the private sector, he was elected to serve as Chairman of the Securities Industry Association for the New York District for three years.\n\nIn 2001, Weprin was elected to the New York City Council, where he served until 2009. Shortly after taking office, he was selected as Chairman of the Council's Finance Committee. During his time as a Council Member, Weprin led the charge in the Council against Mayor Bloomberg's congestion pricing plan, which he characterized as “an unfair tax” with “the potential for causing hardship to people who rely on their cars in boroughs other than Manhattan”.\n\nIn 2009, Weprin retired from the City Council to run for New York City Comptroller. He finished last in the Democratic primary, behind Melinda Katz, David Yassky and the eventual nominee and winner of the general election, John Liu.\n\nOn February 9, 2010, Weprin won a special election to represent New York State Assembly's District 24. He won the general election the following November with 67 percent of the vote.\n\n\nWeprin was selected by the local leaders of the Democratic Party to run for the New York's 9th congressional district special election to the House of Representatives held on September 13, 2011, to replace Democrat Anthony Weiner, who had resigned in June 2011 following a sexting scandal.<ref name=\"NYT2011/07/07\"></ref> The district in which registered Democrats outnumber Republicans by three to one may be eliminated in the 2012 redistricting, and Weprin, who lives a few blocks outside of the district, was chosen largely because he promised not to challenge another incumbent in 2012, should his seat be eliminated. The seat was initially considered safe for Democrats,<ref name=\"WP2011/09/13\"></ref> but Weprin lost against Republican opponent Bob Turner, a retired cable television executive, with 47 percent against Turner's 53 percent, after a campaign plagued by gaffes.\n\nTurner, a Roman Catholic, was appealing to Jewish voters, who make up for about a third of the voters in the district, by criticizing President Obama's policies on Israel, and portraying Weprin, who is strongly pro-Israel, as being insufficiently critical of Obama's stance on Israel. Former New York mayor Ed Koch, a Democrat and Jew, supported Turner in order to send a message to President Obama to change what Koch describes as “hostile position on the State of Israel”. Turner was also supported by Assemblyman Dov Hikind, a Democrat and an orthodox Jew, and local rabbis,<ref name=\"NYT2011/09/14\"></ref> who objected to Weprin's support for same-sex marriage.\n\nWeprin is a strong supporter of social security and is in favor of raising taxes on millionaires. Though an Orthodox Jew, he supported legalizing same-sex marriage, for which he has been criticized by Orthodox Jews. In the debate about the Park51 Islamic community center near Ground Zero, Weprin has defended the right to build an Islamic community center 4 city blocks from that site, but expressed his wish that the center be built at a different location.<ref name=\"NYT2011/09/09\"></ref>\n\n\n\n\nWeprin divorced his first wife in 1986, and lives with his second wife, Ronni Gold, and five children in Holliswood, Queens.\n\n"}
{"id": "2165768", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165768", "title": "List of Chiefs of the General Staff of the Argentine Army", "text": "List of Chiefs of the General Staff of the Argentine Army\n\nThis article lists the Chiefs of the General Staff of the Argentine Army and their preceding offices, between 1962 and the present day. The Argentine Army () is the land force of Argentina.\n\n"}
{"id": "2165771", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165771", "title": "Methylthiomethyl ether", "text": "Methylthiomethyl ether\n\nIn organic chemistry a methylthiomethyl (MTM) ether is a protective group for hydroxyl groups. Hydroxyl groups are present in many chemical compounds and they must be protected during oxidation, acylation, halogenation, dehydration and other reactions to which they are susceptible.\n\nMany kinds of protective groups for hydroxyl groups have been developed and used in organic chemistry, but the number of protective groups for tertiary hydroxyl groups, which are susceptible to acid-catalyzed dehydration, is still small because of their poor reactiveness. They can be easily protected with MTM ethers and recovered in good yield.\n\nTo introduce an MTM ether to a hydroxyl group, two methods are mainly used. One is a typical Williamson ether synthesis using an MTM halide as an MTM resource and sodium hydride (NaH) as a base. The other is a special method, in which dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) and acetic anhydride (AcO) are used. In this case, the reaction proceeds with Pummerer rearrangement:\n\nMTM ethers have another advantage. They are removed by neutral (but toxic) mercuric chloride, to which most other ethers are stable. As a result, the selective deprotection of polyfunctional molecules becomes possible using MTM ethers as the protective groups for their hydroxyl groups.\n\nMethylthiomethyl (MTM) group is used as a protecting group for alcohols in organic synthesis. This type of alcohol protecting group is robust under mild acidic reaction conditions.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2165784", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165784", "title": "Robyn Cohen", "text": "Robyn Cohen\n\nRobyn Cohen is an American actress best known for her role as Anne Marie Sakowitz, the sunbathing script supervisor in Wes Anderson's \"The Life Aquatic with Steve Zissou\".\n\nThroughout her teenage years, she attended summer acting programs at Interlochen Performing Arts Camp, Carnegie Mellon University and Northwestern University before taking her senior year of high school to tour with the Broadway musical revival of \"Cabaret\". She subsequently earned her B.F.A. from the Juilliard School.\n\nAfter performing in \"A Christmas Carol\" at The Ford's Theater in Washington D.C. she moved to Los Angeles, where she began studying acting with Robert Carnegie at Playhouse West School and Repertory Company.\n\nCohen became a teacher at Playhouse West in 2006 as well as a team teacher with Jeff Goldblum in their master class program.\n\nIn 2014 she became an instructor at James Franco's acting school, Studio 4.\n\nIn addition to Wes Anderson's \"The Life Aquatic\" (opposite Bill Murray), some of her film credits are \"The Celestine Prophecy\", \"Road Hard\", \"Zzyzx\", \"Beau Jest\", \"Bedeviled\" and James Franco's films \"Sal\", \"Good Time Max\", \"Fools Gold\" and \"Bukowski\".\n\nIn Television, she was a series regular on \"gravity\" for Starz network and has also appeared on such shows as \"Cristela\", \"The Mentalist\", \"The Defenders\", \"N.C.I.S.\", \"Invasion\", \"The Closer\", \"N.C.I.S. LA\", \"Angel\", \"The Strand\", \"Starved\" (recurring), \"LAX\", and others.\n\nIn 2012 she was seen onstage at The Falcon Theater with Melanie Griffith and Scott Caan in his world premiere play \"No Way Around but Through\". Cohen also appeared in the world premiere of Jon Jory's adaptation of \"Tom Jones\" at the Actors Theatre of Louisville in 2013. She then performed title roles in the repertory season for The Great Lakes Theatre and Idaho Shakespeare Festival throughout their 2015 season.\n\nSome of her additional Los Angeles stage credits include the West Coast premieres of \"The Exonerated\" opposite Jeff Goldblum, and Neil Labute's \"The Shape of Things\" at The Laguna Playhouse. She performed in \"The Grand Tour\" (under Jerry Herman's tutelage at The Colony Theatre), The Long Beach Playhouse (in \"Proof\"), \"The Ape\" and \"Brief Encounters\" (with James Franco at Playhouse West), as well as productions with The Blank Theater Company, Circle X, Theater 40, The Victory Theatre Center, Vs. Theater, and The Dorothy Chandler Pavilion at the Los Angeles Music Center in \"Rigoletto\".\n\nAdditionally, Cohen has performed in New York and regionally with Lincoln Center, The Ford's Theater (D.C.), The Goodspeed Opera House, The Idaho Shakespeare Festival, The Paper Mill Playhouse, The North Shore Music Theater, The Sacramento Light Opera, The Bucks County Playhouse, The Poconos Playhouse and with dozens of theaters around North America and Canada while touring with the musical revival of \"Cabaret\".\n\nShe has been seen in over 75 national commercials. She worked again with Wes Anderson as a hamster in the 2005 Dasani water television commercials.\n\nIn 2015 she directed the play \"Tape\" by Stephen Belber, and prior to that directed \"27 Wagons Full of Cotton\" by Tennessee Williams, and \"Hello out There\" by William Saroyan.\n\nIn December 2012, she was awarded over $17 million in a lawsuit against Los Angeles Clippers owner Donald Sterling after losing most of her belongings in an apartment fire at a West Hollywood building owned by Sterling. This award was later overturned by a judge on appeal. She now lives in Studio City.\n"}
{"id": "2165794", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165794", "title": "Service medal", "text": "Service medal\n\nA service medal is an award to individuals who participated in designated wars, campaigns, or expeditions, or who have fulfilled specific service requirements in a creditable manner. Service medals are sometimes also Campaign medals.\n\nTwo of the service medals currently issued by the United States Armed Forces are the National Defense Service Medal and the Global War on Terrorism Service Medal. The National Defense Service Medal is normally issued to anyone who was called to active service during specific time periods. The Global War on Terrorism Service Medal is awarded to any active duty member of the United States military providing support for anti-terrorism operations for 30 consecutive or 60 non-consecutive days unless killed or wounded in the line of duty. The term \"support\" is interpreted very broadly.\n\n"}
{"id": "2165800", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165800", "title": "Polytomous Rasch model", "text": "Polytomous Rasch model\n\nThe polytomous Rasch model is generalization of the dichotomous Rasch model. It is a measurement model that has potential application in any context in which the objective is to measure a trait or ability through a process in which responses to items are \"scored\" with successive integers. For example, the model is applicable to the use of Likert scales, rating scales, and to educational assessment items for which successively higher integer scores are intended to indicate increasing levels of competence or attainment.\n\nThe polytomous Rasch model was derived by Andrich (1978), subsequent to derivations by Rasch (1961) and Andersen (1977), through resolution of relevant terms of a general form of Rasch's model into \"threshold\" and \"discrimination\" parameters. When the model was derived, Andrich focused on the use of Likert scales in psychometrics, both for illustrative purposes and to aid in the interpretation of the model.\n\nThe model is sometimes referred to as the \"Rating Scale Model\" when (i) items have the same number of thresholds and (ii) in turn, the difference between any given threshold location and the mean of the threshold locations is equal or uniform across items. This is, however, a potentially misleading name for the model because it is far more general in its application than to so-called rating scales. The model is also sometimes referred to as the \"Partial Credit Model\", particularly when applied in educational contexts. The Partial Credit Model (Masters, 1982) has an identical algebraic form but was derived from a different starting point at a later time, and is interpreted in a somewhat different manner. The Partial Credit Model also allows different thresholds for different items. Although this name for the model is often used, Andrich (2005) provides a detailed analysis of problems associated with elements of Masters' approach, which relate specifically to the type of response process that is compatible with the model, and to empirical situations in which estimates of threshold locations are disordered. These issues are discussed in the elaboration of the model that follows.\n\nThe model is a general probabilistic measurement model which provides a theoretical foundation for the use of sequential integer scores, in a manner that preserves the distinctive property that defines Rasch models: specifically, total raw scores are sufficient statistics for the parameters of the models. See the main article for the Rasch model for elaboration of this property. In addition to preserving this property, the model permits a stringent empirical test of the hypothesis that response categories represent increasing levels of a latent attribute or trait, hence are ordered. The reason the model provides a basis for testing this hypothesis is that it is empirically possible that thresholds will fail to display their intended ordering.\n\nIn this more general form of the Rasch model for dichotomous data, the \"score\" on a particular item is defined as the count of the number of threshold locations on the latent trait surpassed by the individual. This does not mean that a measurement process entails making such counts in a literal sense; rather, threshold locations on a latent continuum are usually \"inferred\" from a matrix of response data through an estimation process such as Conditional Maximum likelihood estimation. In general, the central feature of the measurement process is that individuals are \"classified\" into one of a set of contiguous, or adjoining, ordered categories. A response format employed in a given experimental context may achieve this in a number of ways. For example, respondents may choose a category they perceive best captures their level of endorsement of a statement (such as 'strongly agree'), judges may classify persons into categories based on well-defined criteria, or a person may categorise a physical stimulus based on perceived similarity to a set of reference stimuli.\n\nThe polytomous Rasch model specialises to the model for dichotomous data when responses are classifiable into only two categories. In this special case, the item difficulty and (single) threshold are identical. The concept of a threshold is elaborated on in the following section.\n\nFirst, let\n\nbe an integer random variable where formula_2 is the maximum score for item \"i\". That is, the variable formula_3 is a random variable that can take on integer values between 0 and a maximum of formula_2.\n\nIn the polytomous Rasch model (Andrich, 1978), the probability of the outcome formula_5 is\n\nwhere formula_8 is the \"k\"th threshold location of item \"i\" on a latent continuum, formula_9 is the location of person \"n\" on the same continuum, and formula_2 is the maximum score for item \"i\". These equations are the same as\nwhere the value of formula_12 is chosen for computational convenience that is: formula_13.\n\nSimilarly, the Rasch \"Rating Scale\" model (Andrich, 1978) is\n\nwhere formula_15 is the difficulty of item \"i\" and formula_16 is the \"k\"th threshold location of the rating scale which is in common to all the items. \"m\" is the maximum score and is identical for all the items. formula_17 is chosen for computational convenience.\n\nApplied in a given empirical context, the model can be considered a mathematical hypothesis that the probability of a given outcome is a probabilistic function of these person and item parameters. The graph showing the relation between the probability of a given category as a function of person location is referred to as a \"Category Probability Curve\" (CPC). An example of the CPCs for an item with five categories, scored from 0 to 4, is shown in Figure 1.\n\nA given threshold formula_18 partitions the continuum into regions above and below its location. The threshold corresponds with the location on a latent continuum at which it is equally likely a person will be classified into adjacent categories, and therefore to obtain one of two successive scores. The first threshold of item \"i\", formula_19, is the location on the continuum at which a person is equally likely to obtain a score of 0 or 1, the second threshold is the location at which a person is equally likely to obtain a score of 1 and 2, and so on. In the example shown in Figure 1, the threshold locations are −1.5, −0.5, 0.5, and 1.5 respectively.\n\nRespondents may obtain scores in many different ways. For example, where Likert response formats are employed, \"Strongly Disagree\" may be assigned 0, \"Disagree\" a 1, \"Agree\" a 2, and \"Strongly Agree\" a 3. In the context of assessment in educational psychology, successively higher integer scores may be awarded according to explicit criteria or descriptions which characterise increasing levels of attainment in a specific domain, such as reading comprehension. The common and central feature is that some process must result in classification of each individual into one of a set of ordered categories that collectively comprise an assessment item.\n\nIn elaborating on features of the model, Andrich (2005) clarifies that its structure entails a \"simultaneous classification process\", which results in a single \"manifest\" response, and involves a series of dichotomous latent responses. In addition, the latent dichotomous responses operate within a Guttman structure and associated response space, as is characterised to follow.\n\nLet\n\nbe a set of independent dichotomous random variables. Andrich (1978, 2005) shows that the polytomous Rasch model requires that these dichotomous responses conform with a latent Guttman response subspace:\n\nin which \"x\" ones are followed by \"m-x\" zeros. For example, in the case of two thresholds, the permissible patterns in this response subspace are:\n\nwhere the integer score \"x\" implied by each pattern (and vice versa) is as shown. The reason this subspace is implied by the model is as follows. Let\n\nbe the probability that formula_26 and let formula_27. This function has the structure of the Rasch model for dichotomous data. Next, consider the following conditional probability in the case two thresholds:\n\nIt can be shown that this conditional probability is equal to\n\nwhich, in turn, is the probability formula_30 given by the polytomous Rasch model. From the denominator of these equations, it can be seen that the probability in this example is conditional on response patterns of formula_31 or formula_32. It is therefore evident that in general, the response subspace formula_33, as defined earlier, is \"intrinsic\" to the structure of the polytomous Rasch model. This restriction on the subspace is necessary to the justification for integer scoring of responses: i.e. such that the score is simply the count of ordered thresholds surpassed. Andrich (1978) showed that equal discrimination at each of the thresholds is also necessary to this justification.\n\nIn the polytomous Rasch model, a score of \"x\" on a given item implies that an individual has simultaneously surpassed \"x\" thresholds below a certain region on the continuum, and failed to surpass the remaining \"m\" − \"x\" thresholds above that region. In order for this to be possible, the thresholds must be in their natural order, as shown in the example of Figure 1. Disordered threshold estimates indicate a failure to construct an assessment context in which classifications represented by successive scores reflect increasing levels of the latent trait. For example, consider a situation in which there are two thresholds, and in which the estimate of the second threshold is lower on the continuum than the estimate of the first threshold. If the locations are taken literally, classification of a person into category 1 implies that the person's location simultaneously surpasses the second threshold but fails to surpass the first threshold. In turn, this implies a response pattern {0,1}, a pattern which does not belong to the subspace of patterns that is intrinsic to the structure of the model, as described above.\n\nWhen threshold estimates are disordered, the estimates cannot therefore be taken literally; rather the disordering, in itself, inherently indicates that the classifications do not satisfy criteria that must logically be satisfied in order to justify the use of successive integer scores as a basis for measurement. To emphasise this point, Andrich (2005) uses an example in which grades of fail, pass, credit, and distinction are awarded. These grades, or classifications, are usually intended to represent \"increasing levels\" of attainment. Consider a person A, whose location on the latent continuum is at the threshold between regions on the continuum at which a pass and credit are most likely to be awarded. Consider also another person B, whose location is at the threshold between the regions at which a credit and distinction are most likely to be awarded. In the example considered by Andrich (2005, p. 25), disordered thresholds would, if taken literally, imply that the location of person A (at the pass/credit threshold) is higher than that of person B (at the credit/distinction threshold). That is, taken literally, the disordered threshold locations would imply that a person would need to demonstrate a higher level of attainment to be at the pass/credit threshold than would be needed to be at the credit/distinction threshold. Clearly, this disagrees with the intent of such a grading system. The disordering of the thresholds would, therefore, indicate that the manner in which grades are being awarded is not in agreement with the intention of the grading system. That is, the disordering would indicate that the hypothesis implicit in the grading system - that grades represent ordered classifications of increasing performance - is not substantiated by the structure of the empirical data.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2165811", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165811", "title": "Grandia (video game)", "text": "Grandia (video game)\n\nGrandia is a role-playing video game, developed by Game Arts and published by Entertainment Software Publishing for the Sega Saturn console as the first game in their \"Grandia\" series. Released in Japan in 1997, the game was ported to the PlayStation in 1999, with an English version of the game appearing on the platform in North America in the following September by Sony Computer Entertainment, and in Europe in 2000 by Ubi Soft. The game was produced by much of the same staff who worked on the company's previous role-playing endeavor, the \"Lunar\" series, including producer Yoichi Miyagi and composer Noriyuki Iwadare.\n\n\"Grandia\" is notable for its combat mechanics which have been carried over to future games within the franchise, and has spawned an expansion disk (\"Grandia: Digital Museum\") and a spin-off title (\"\") - both released exclusively in Japan. In celebration of the announcement of renewing development on \"Grandia Online\", which acts as a prequel to \"Grandia\", the game was re-released on Sony's PlayStation Network platform in Japan as a downloadable title on April 22, 2009 and in North America on February 25, 2010. It was re-released in Europe on November 10, 2010. A high-definition remaster of the game was released in North America and Europe on August 16, 2019, together with \"Grandia II\", for Nintendo Switch; a Windows PC version was released on October 15, 2019. GungHo Online Entertainment clarified that a Japanese release of the remasters will follow in the future.\n\nThe game is set in a fantasy world of emerging technology and exploration. A young boy named Justin inherits a magic stone that leads him on a journey around the world to uncover the mystery of a long-lost civilization. Along the way, he meets other adventurers who join him on his quest, which draws the attention of the militaristic Garlyle Forces who seek to uncover the secrets of the past as well. \"Grandia\" received a largely positive critical response during its original release, and was voted by readers of Japan's highly circulated \"Famitsu\" magazine as the 73rd greatest game of all time in a 2006 poll.\n\n\"Grandia's\" environments are depicted as three-dimensional maps, with characters represented by 2-D animated bitmap sprites. The camera is fully rotational and follows the party from an angled third-person perspective; it is often necessary to rotate the camera in order to see hidden items or passageways.\n\n\"Grandia\" features a rotational party roster. The statistics of each party member increase each time they gain a new level by defeating enemies and earning experience points. Characters learn new abilities through the repeated use of weapons and spells. Once a particular weapon/magic spell is used a number of times in battle, its Skill Level is raised. Weapons are divided into different classes, including swords, maces, axes, whips and knives. Each party member's potential abilities are listed on a Skill screen within the game's main menu, as well as the Skill requirements that must be met in order to learn them. The game encourages players to periodically switch between weapons. When a weapon or magic element levels up, permanent stat points are added to that character as well. For example, when a character's water skill levels up, they also receive +1 HP as well as +2 MP.\n\nMonsters in \"Grandia\" are visible on the field and wander around aimlessly until the party gets close. A battle begins once the monster touches a party member. If the player manages to sneak up on the enemy and make contact from the rear, they gain a preemptive strike and attack first. Likewise, if an enemy touches a party member from behind, they get the first strike. Combat is shown from a third-person overhead view. The IP bar at the bottom right corner of the screen displays a row of icons, which represent all party members and enemies on the screen. When an icon drifts to the midpoint of the IP Bar, that character can choose their next action. The IP Bar also shows the time it takes for enemies to attack; if the party manages to land a strike during the period where an enemy is preparing an attack, that enemy's attack is canceled.\n\nThe story centers around , an aspiring adventurer from Parm. He lives with his mother, , in their home in the upstairs floor of their family-owned restaurant. Justin's father vanished years ago on an adventure, and his mother is worried that he will try to follow in her late husband's footsteps, yet Justin, a romanticist, insists that there are still uncharted parts of the world, despite general perception that the \"End of the World\" — an insurmountable stone wall found on a newly discovered continent — has closed the book on the age of adventuring. Other characters include , a friend from his town who acts as a surrogate sister to Justin; , a seasoned adventurer and Justin's idol; , a valiant knight who mentors Justin in the way of swordsmanship; , an ill-mannered youth from the village of Cafu; , a feral giantess who, despite her volatile nature, has a sweet side, particularly for her husband; , a traveling salesman and chieftain of a diminutive, rabbit-like clan called the Mogay; and , a mysterious woman who contacts Justin inside the Sult Ruins. She resides in an ancient space station and serves as a living database of an ancient civilization.\n\nThe game's main antagonist is General , the calculating leader of the Garlyle Forces. Despite appearing to be involved in the excavation of ruins for purely philanthropic reasons, he has his own agenda. His son and second-in-command is Colonel , a tactician who is well liked by his subordinates. Alongside him is his aide-de-camp, , a young soldier who has gained a special place in the military for reasons unknown. , , and are three female commanders who are each assigned their own squadrons. Despite their best efforts, they often bungle important missions, particularly if Justin happens to be involved. Each one of them has a crush on Colonel Mullen and outwardly show their jealousy of Leen as a result.\n\n\"Grandia\" is a set in a fantasy world where societies thrive in an era of increasing technological developments following the collapse of the ancient civilization centuries before. General Baal, leader of the militaristic Garlyle Forces, along with his son Colonel Mullen (Murren) and Mullen's love interest Lieutenant Leen, make their way to an archaeological site where treasures of the ancient people are believed to be resting. Justin, a young boy keen on adventure who lives in the port town of Parm just outside the dig site, travels to the area along with his friend Sue to investigate, as well as gather clues about an artifact left by Justin's missing father, the Spirit Stone. Slipping past the Garlyle soldiers into the ruins, Justin finds a holographic device that displays the image of a woman named Liete, who tells him that his stone holds great power, and he must travel far to the east in search of , the ancient city of knowledge, to learn of its true potential. Returning home, Justin avoids his mother and sneaks out to the docks early the next day to board a ship bound for the New World across the ocean while promising to become a great adventurer like his father.\n\nAboard the ship, Justin discovers Sue has stowed away, and meets with another young adventurer named Feena, who joins the two in saving the vessel from a haunted ship that appears in a fog. After a long journey, they arrive in the town of New Parm only to have Feena become kidnapped by the Adventurer Society's President, who wants her as his wife. Stealing her away, the three travel to a nearby ruin where they once again meet Liete deep inside, who tells them that Alent lies further within the New World beyond a massive continent-spanning wall known as \"The End of the World\". The Garlyle Forces intercept the three as they travel farther, and question Justin on his ability to manipulate ancient machinery within the ruins. Escaping their capture aboard a military train, the three make their way to a village at the foot of the great wall, where it is revealed that Leen is Feena's long-lost sister. Resolving to continue their journey, the team make their way up the wall, setting up camps along the way before eventually reaching the top, gaining access to the remainder of the continent on the other side.\n\nMaking their way through a forest, the three meet Gadwin, a beast-man and seasoned knight who sees potential in Justin and leads the three to the ancient Twin Towers in order to contact Liete again. After being intercepted by the Garlyle Forces once again, they make their escape, only for Sue to fall ill as they near another village. Fearing for her safety, Justin obtains a teleportation orb and lets Sue use it to return to Parm and continues onward with Gadwin and Feena to the bounds of the continent and yet another ocean. Justin then defeats Gadwin in a duel, the latter allowing Justin and Feena to have his boat, before leaving the party. Taking Gadwin's ship to another island, Justin and Feena begin to express their feelings for one another. Landing on a beach outside a beast-man village, the two meet Rapp, who asks them to help destroy a nearby tower that is emanating a dark energy and petrifying the land. Finding the tower to be controlled by the Garlyle Forces, the team meets with Milda, a beast-woman, inside and join her in destroying the source of the corruption, which turns out to be a plant-like creature known as \"Gaia\" being grown by Garlyle researchers under the orders of General Baal. After destroying the creature and taking a sample of its seeds, Justin is confronted by Leen who steals them back. Moving forward in search of Alent, the party meets a traveling merchant named Guido who leads them to his home town, where he acts as chieftain despite his young appearance, allowing them access to more ruins. It is here that Feena discovers innate magic powers that manifest in the form of wings when she is in trouble, and is promptly captured along with Justin's Spirit Stone by invading Garlyle soldiers and taken aboard Baal's flagship, the Grandeur. Baal reveals to her that he intends to revive a fully powered Gaia using the stone to take over the world and remake it to his own design. Justin, Rapp, and Guido manage to board the Grandeur and engage the Garlyle troops aboard before confronting Baal. Due to the self-destruct mechanism being activated by accident, the ship starts to fall apart, and Guido and Rapp end up getting separated from Justin, leaving him to face Baal alone. The general forces Justin to hand over the Spirit Stone by threatening Feena, but Baal keeps her hostage anyway. Justin therefore is forced to fight Baal, but learns during the fight that the madman had fused with Gaia. He knocks Justin off the burning ship, but Feena breaks free from Baal and dives after Justin. The Grandeur subsequently breaks apart in the air, apparently taking Baal and the Spirit Stone with it.\n\nAfter reuniting, the party finally reaches Alent. Here, Justin meets Liete in person, who reveals to him that his stone is actually an ancient artifact forged by the Icarians, a race of powerful sorcerers who lived during the Angelou era, and was a gift to the humans who lived at the time to use as they pleased to bring prosperity, but when they became corrupted by dark desires, it instead gave birth to Gaia, who nearly destroyed the world. The Icarians sacrificed themselves to save the planet and humanity, and enacted a spell that two of their kind would be born into the world should Gaia ever be revived, destined to also sacrifice themselves to save the world until the next revival in an endless loop. Realizing Feena and Leen are the current revival of the Icarians, Justin sets off to save them from the Gaia-fused Baal, who now faces mutiny among his troops, including his son Mullen. With Gaia proving more than a match for the entire Garlyle army, Leen accepts her destiny and sacrifices herself to lower his defenses. Although Mullen pleads with Feena to finish Gaia, Justin argues that the problem can't be solved with more sacrifice since Gaia will just revive later. Thus Gaia must be defeated outright to end the cycle. Though Gaia defeats the troops and spreads its corruption around the planet, Justin is able to sum up the courage to face the evil with help from his friends, and travels to the underground heart of Gaia itself to destroy it and the Spirit Stone once and for all. With Gaia defeated permanently, the world experiences a new age of peace. Leen is also restored to life with Gaia's destruction. In an epilogue ten years later, Sue, now a teenager, re-unites with Justin and Feena who arrive home after nearly a decade of adventure, with children in tow (although in a tease the older Justin and Feena are not seen).\n\n\"Grandia\" was developed by Game Arts over a period of more than two years beginning after the release of the company's previous role-playing video game title, \"\" for the Sega Mega-CD. The project, headed by producer Yoichi Miyaji and directors Takeshi Miyaji and Toshiaki Hontani, was also originally intended for the Mega-CD system, but was shifted to the Saturn early in development due to Sega's abandoning the platform. According to a spokesman for Game Arts, \"Grandia\" was created as part of the company's on-going effort to \"provide consumers with good games rather than try to follow market trends\", opting instead to create a product that would tell a compelling story catering primarily to their existing fanbase. The Saturn version was released in December 1997 exclusively in Japan, along with a special Limited Edition for those who pre-ordered the game between October 25 and November 30, 1997, which included a fold-out cloth map of the \"Grandia\" world, as well as a mini radio drama disc featuring voiced scenes from the game. In November 1998, \"Grandia\" was re-released in Japan as the \"Grandia Memorial Package\", which featured new instruction booklet artwork and a lower sales price. Sega of America had commented that they had no plans to bring an English version of the game to North American audiences on their system, which prompted an online petition originating on the role-playing game fansite LunarNET designed to alert the company of consumer interest. Despite gathering several hundred signatures in only a few days, as well as promotion from gaming website GameSpot, the Saturn version was never released internationally.\n\nIn March 1999, Game Art's Japanese publisher ESP Software showcased a PlayStation version of \"Grandia\" at that year's Tokyo Game Show expo, along with confirmation that the game would be released in English for the first time in North America by Sony Computer Entertainment America. Working Designs, which had previously worked with Game Arts on bringing their \"Lunar\" games to the region, had expressed interest in publishing the game, but were ultimately unable to secure the rights. New features for the PlayStation version included support for the system's DualShock analog control sticks and vibration function, as well as compatibility with Sony's Japanese-only PocketStation peripheral, which allows players to download game data on a portable device for use in a special mini-game. Although the company had expressed interest in bringing the game to the PlayStation as early as 1998, technical problems originally prevented the title from being ported to the system. Game Arts was later able to release the game with a slight loss in frame rate and a marginal decrease in video effects the following June. The North American version was originally announced by Sony as a summer release during the 1999 Electronic Entertainment Expo in Los Angeles, but was pushed back to the following October. \"Grandia\" was later released for the PlayStation in Europe in 2000 by Ubisoft.\n\nNearly ten years after \"Grandia\"s release on the PlayStation, Game Arts announced in April 2009 that the game would be released as a downloadable title on Sony's PlayStation Network service in Japan in celebration of the resuming development on the company's long-dormant \"Grandia Online\" project.\n\nThe music for \"Grandia\" was written by Noriyuki Iwadare, who had previously worked with Game Arts as composer for their \"Lunar\" series on the Sega CD. Iwadare was called upon to write the music due to his relationship with the company, and claims that his work on \"Grandia\" was \"a turning point in my career\", and described the music-making process as \"very interesting\". \"Grandia\"s sound team utilized the latest technology available at the time to create the game's background themes, included the game's main theme, \"Theme of Grandia\", which was composed by Iwadare in just one night after looking at an illustration for the game. The music was recorded at Skywalker Sound with producer Tom Meyers. In addition to music, the game features voice acting during battles and certain story scenes, with the Japanese version featuring a number of anime and video game veteran actors. Two of the English version's main characters, Justin and Gadwin, were officially left uncredited. \"It's the End\" by Japanese rock group L'Arc-en-Ciel, from the band's 1999 Album \"Ray\", was used as the game's official commercial theme song during its re-release on the PlayStation.\n\nIn December 1997, selected music tracks from the game were released in Japan on the \"Grandia Original Soundtrack\" by King Records across two discs, which were organized as \"Orchestra Side\" and \"Synth Side\" according to the type of instrument samples used to compose them. A follow-up album, \"Grandia Original Soundtrack II\", was made available in June 1998, containing an additional two discs of music not featured on the previous album. One year later, in June 1999, a compilation album entitled \"The Best of Grandia\" was released by Twofive Records containing some of Iwadare's favorite music from the game, including a never-before released track, \"Pavane\". Iwadare also produced a special arranged album called \"Vent: Grandia Arrange Version\", with \"\"vent\"\" () being the French word for \"wind\", which Iwadare chose because it \"carries the image of cool pleasant wind\". The album was released in February 1998 by King Records and contains 12 arranged tracks, which Iwadare designed to be \"an album, which people would listen at leisure on Sunday mornings\".\n\n\"Grandia\" received near-universal acclaim during its original release in Japan, garnering a 9 out of 10 from both \"Sega Saturn Magazine\" and \"Saturn Fan\", as well as an 8.75 out of 10 from \"Weekly TV Gamer\". \"Weekly Famitsu\" granted the game a 32 out of 40, earning it an editor's choice Gold Award. Despite not being released outside Japan, GameSpot covered the Saturn version in a 1998 import review, claiming that Grandia \"beats out \"Final Fantasy VII\" in all of the ways that matter,\" adding that the game was \"not only longer, with a more engaging cast of characters, but it lacks the lulls that so many RPGs have because of these merits,\" awarding the game an Editor's Choice Award. \"Official U.S. PlayStation Magazine\" called the game \"arguably the best RPG for Sega's Saturn console.\" The game earned an \"Excellence Award\" during the 1997 CESA Japan Game Awards as runner-up for game of the year.\n\n\"Next Generation\" reviewed the Saturn version of the game, rating it four stars out of five, and stated that \"\"Grandia\"'s design and innovation will be a benchmark for future RPGs in the 32-bit generation and beyond.\"\n\nIt sold 181,219 units in its first week and would go on to sell 344,554 copies in Japan, becoming the 15th highest-selling game for the system in the region and the country's fourth highest-selling Saturn title of 1997. In addition, North American imports of the game were higher than many other games in the genre at the time due to its positive overseas reception and cancellation of the English release on the platform. In 2006, readers of \"Famitsu\" voted the Saturn version the 73rd greatest game of all time during the magazine's Top 100 Favorite Games of All Time feature.\n\nThe PlayStation version of \"Grandia\" met with similarly positive reception to the Saturn release, though sales remained lower than the original in Japan, selling approximately 97,460 copies in its first three weeks. It received an aggregate score of 86% on GameRankings and 89/100 on Metacritic. \"Official U.S. PlayStation Magazine\" named it as one of the \"25 Games You Must Play in 1999\", praising the title's colorful presentation and \"innovative battle system\" and \"elegant character advancement system\", yet found the game's English voice acting to be \"depressingly awkward\". GameSpot once again compared \"Grandia\" to Square's popular \"Final Fantasy\" series, calling it \"every bit as worthwhile as \"Final Fantasy VIII\", just in different ways,\" calling attention to its sound quality that is \"as complete and detailed as it visuals\", but finding fault in the game's translation and voice work that was declared \"inexcusable by today's standards.\"\n\n\"GamePro\" magazine felt that the game had aged during its two-year transition to the PlayStation, but that the game's presentation was still \"amazingly detailed and well designed.\" The publication would cite the game's music as its major downfall, calling it \"repetitive and annoying and will have the player reaching for the volume control\", as well as the relatively low detail on enemy monsters when compared to the rest of the game, yet ultimately felt that \"Grandia's puzzles, gorgeous locations, and solid story more than make up for its minor flaws.\" IGN, conversely, found the game's music to be \"good\", yet found its \"overly simplistic tones and themes\" to be a turn-off for some, yet adding that \"you'd be selling the game short if you didn't push through and see the game to conclusion.\" \"In 2000, IGN would rank \"Grandia\" 17th on its list of the top 25 PlayStation games of all time, calling it \"Game Arts' magnum opus and probably their most historically significant project.\" Eurogamer, in a 2007 retrospective, called the game \"fantastic\", praising the title's \"vastly enjoyable battle system which few other games have rivaled, even in recent years\".\n\nFrancesca Reyes reviewed the PlayStation version of the game for \"Next Generation\", rating it four stars out of five, and stated that \"Light-hearted, but incredibly involving, \"Grandia\" proves to be worth the wait.\"\n\n is an extension of \"Grandia\", developed by Game Arts and published by ESP Software for the Sega Saturn. Released exclusively in Japan in May 1998, the game features character graphics, textures, and music lifted directly from its predecessor. Players can also swap save data between the core \"Grandia\" disc and the \"Digital Museum\" on the Saturn memory card.\n\nThe game's story is set sometime after the events of the original \"Grandia\", with the main characters Justin, Feena, and Sue being transported to a large museum created by the sorceress Liete made to honor their adventure during the first game. When most of the exhibits go missing, Liete uses her magic to transport the three to four separate dungeons each containing remnants of their previous journey to find and restore them to their proper place. As players progress through the game, bonus material becomes unlocked in the museum itself, which includes music files, artwork, and movie clips related to \"Grandia\", as well as minigames.\n\nThe following exhibits are found in the four dungeons:\n\n\n\"Grandia: Digital Museum\" debuted as the fifth highest-selling game of the week during its launch in Japan, and would go on to sell approximately 32,226 copies in its first month.\n\n\"Grandia HD Remaster\" for PC was released on October 15, 2019. The remastered game used original PlayStation code, but combined with the details and effects from the Sega Saturn version to create a definitive version of the game. The remastered game features enhanced details to UI / sprites / texture art, visually enhanced original cinematic videos, widescreen support and customizable resolutions (PC only), Steam Trading Cards / Steam Achievements (PC only), Japanese and English Audio, and new language support (original English and Japanese plus French and German translations), gamepad and keyboard support with remappable controls (PC only). Full Japanese language support along with various fixes were released on March 25, 2020.\n\n"}
{"id": "2165815", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165815", "title": "Last Laugh (M*A*S*H)", "text": "Last Laugh (M*A*S*H)\n\n\"Last Laugh\" is an episode from the TV series \"M*A*S*H\". It was the fourth episode of the sixth season, originally airing October 4, 1977 and repeated March 6, 1978, and written by Everett Greenbaum and Jim Fritzell and directed by Don Weis.\n\nGuest cast is James Cromwell as Capt. Leo Bardonaro, Robert Karnes as Major General Frederick Fox, and John Ashton as an MP.\n\nOne of B.J.'s old buddies shows up at the 4077th, and is a bigger practical joker than B.J. or Hawkeye. Unfortunately, his joke backfires and B.J. finds himself charged with a crime, so everybody must now undo the joke so they can exonerate B.J. (and Hawkeye and B.J. can get even).\n\nColonel Potter receives a telephone call from a colonel at the Provost Marshal's office, informing him that a report has been received that Captain Hunnicutt may have forged his surgeon's credentials. Potter insists that Hunnicutt is a qualified doctor, but the caller persists and informs Potter that he will be coming to the 4077th later that day to make an investigation. Just then Klinger comes in, pretending to be leading a camel. Klinger shows off the \"camel\", and after a brief show Potter kicks him out of his office. Potter then goes to the mess tent looking for Hunnicutt, and finds Hawkeye and Father Mulcahy sitting down to a meal. He asks his junior officers Hunnicutt's whereabouts, but they do not know. He then explains the situation to them. Just then, B.J. walks in and overhears the conversation. Potter explains to him that he is being investigated, and Hawkeye jokes that B.J. is actually a spy. Potter then mentions the name of the colonel that called. B.J. recognizes the name instantly—his old college roommate Leo Bardonaro. He explains that Bardonaro is a master practical joker, and that he was simply letting B.J. know that he would be stopping by for a visit later that afternoon.\n\nUpon arriving at the camp, Bardonaro is directed to the Swamp. There he is greeted by B.J., who introduces him to Hawkeye. B.J. and Bardonaro reminisce about their old exploits, but soon Bardonaro has to leave, explaining that he has a flight to catch—he's going home! Bardonaro exchanges a cheerful goodbye with the Swampmen, then leaves on his way. Just after he leaves. B.J.'s cigar (which he got from Bardonaro) explodes. (Hawkeye gets \"zapped\" with a hand held joy-buzzer.)\n\nLater, in Post-Op, B.J. is apprehended by two military policemen. Hawkeye, who is standing nearby, explains that it's just another joke, but the MPs insist on arresting B.J. They walk over to Colonel Potter's office to sort everything out, Hawkeye trying to bribe the MPs along the way. Potter takes a look at the arrest order—it's from Major General Frederick Fox, and it accuses B.J. of \"willful misconduct\". Potter allows the MPs to take Hunnicutt to Seoul, and an hour later he follows with Hawkeye, evidence in hand.\n\nIn his office in Seoul, General Fox accuses Hunnicutt of holding a loud and boisterous party in a hotel room next to one he was occupying with his secretary. He also claims that after the party, Hunnicutt grilled steaks on his hotel room balcony, and the smoke filled General Fox's room. Because of the smoke, Fox and his secretary, both naked, were forced to flee their room, interrupting the General's \"official dictation\". Potter claims that Hunnicutt was working the night of the alleged incident, and offers the duty logs of that night in support of his claim. Fox claims that the duty logs could have been forged, and presents a copy of the hotel register with what he alleges is Hunnicutt's signature. B.J. argues that the signature is not in his handwriting, and suggests that the register, too, could have been forged. Fox then pulls out a hat, telling B.J. that he must have left it behind in his hurry to leave the hotel. B.J. says the hat is not his and, at General Fox's insistence, puts it on. It is several sizes too large.\n\nExonerated, B.J. leaves for the 4077th with Potter and Hawkeye. In celebration of their victory \"against the brass\", all three (including Hawkeye, who is driving) drink wildly and curse Bardonaro. Hawkeye mentions that he'd like to get back at Bardonaro, and B.J. says he'll have a chance soon enough—he had swiped Bardonaro's travel orders just before he left the Swamp. The three return to the camp completely drunk, and they go their separate ways. Colonel Potter finds Klinger and tells him he brought a discharge for the camel, and Hawkeye and B.J. return to the Swamp to find Bardonaro sitting, waiting for them.\n\nBardonaro begs B.J. for his travel orders, and B.J. finally relents after making Bardonaro promise to stop the childish practical jokes. Bardonaro agrees, and as he heads out the door he remembers that he has no way to get to Kimpo Air Base. B.J. suggests that they use the Jeep he and Hawkeye just returned in, telling him that it's \"all gassed up\". Bardonaro thanks him and rushes out of the Swamp. Soon after he leaves, Radar comes in with an envelope for B.J. B.J. opens it and finds it's a bill for $580.00 from the hotel in Seoul for damages. He laughs and explains to Hawkeye that Bardonaro will be walking back in half an hour. Hawkeye is confused by this, so B.J. informs him that \"the only thing gassed up in that Jeep was us!\" A subplot is Margaret Houlihan nearly going crazy about getting in touch with her husband Donald Penobscot.\n\n"}
{"id": "2165817", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165817", "title": "Mount Lyell (Tasmania)", "text": "Mount Lyell (Tasmania)\n\nMount Lyell is a mountain in the West Coast Range of Western Tasmania, Australia.\n\nMount Lyell has an elevation of above sea level. The adjacent mountains are Mount Sedgwick to the north and Mount Owen to the south.\nThe mountain was named by Charles Gould in 1863 after geologist Charles Lyell, a supporter of Charles Darwin.\n\nMount Lyell was also the common short name of the Mount Lyell Mining and Railway Company.\n\nThe Mount Lyell company operations centred mainly on the shoulder between Mount Owen and Mount Lyell, and to the western side of the mountain. On the eastern side of the shoulder were the old North Mount Lyell workings, where the 1912 North Mount Lyell Disaster occurred.\n\nThere was a small operation in the early days of the mining operation that was on the northern side of Mount Lyell, known as the Comstock mine. In the late twentieth century, just west of the Comstock workings was a section of the mine known as Cape Horn. The western end of the mountain has been named Cape Horn Spur, as the Mount Lyell Mining and Railway Company had a mine called Cape Horn in the 1970s at the west end of this spur.\n\nA railway line was planned to travel from Linda in the Linda Valley, around the southern, eastern and northern sides of Mount Lyell. The formation was built but the line was never utilised.\n\nThe sides of the mountain have been subjected to bush fires, smelter fumes and high rainfall, consequently the resultant vegetation and the legacy of tree stumps give the southern sides of the mountain a unique appearance.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2165825", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165825", "title": "Maria Flor", "text": "Maria Flor\n\nMaria Flor Leite Calaça (born August 31, 1983), usually known as Maria Flor, is a Brazilian actress.\n\nShe was discovered in 2002, and her first role was in the film \"O Diabo a Quatro\", filmed in the same year, and released nationwide in Brazil in 2005. It was also her first role as a protagonist in a movie. She became famous after her role as Rê, a very insecure and innovative character, in Malhação telenovela. This was also her first television role.\n\nShe played Tina, a romantic character, in the telenovela Cabocla. To be able to play her character, Maria Flor spent almost a month in a farm learning how to be a peasant. In the movie \"Cazuza - O Tempo Não Pára\" she played a groupie following the rock band Barão Vermelho. In the film \"Quase Dois Irmãos\" she played a wealthy girl, daughter of a politician, and that gets involved with a drug dealer. She also represented the cast of the film during the 2005 Créteil International Women's Film Festival.\n\nShe played a prostitute in the movie \"O Diabo a Quatro\". In her research to play this character she talked to real prostitutes and strippers. Maria Flor won the best actress award of the Festival de Cuiabá (Cuiabá Film Festival) for her performance in this film. In the biographical film \"Dois Filhos de Francisco\", Maria Flor played Solange, who was the first love of the sertanejo singer Zezé Di Camargo, of the Zezé di Camargo & Luciano duo.\n\nShe played Taís Junqueira in the telenovela \"Belíssima\", which started airing in November, 2005. Taís Junqueira is a Brazilian woman working in Greece as a prostitute, after receiving a proposal promising her a job as a ballerina. During the telenovela, her character tried to return to Brazil. In 2006, she played Carol in the 2006 film Podecre! and Letícia in the movie \"Proibido Proibir\".\n\nMaria Flor played the role of Bel in the 2007 film \"Chega de Saudade\" Her first role as the main character of a telenovela was in the 2007 telenovela \"Eterna Magia\", where she played the role of Nina Sullivan, who is a witch who refuses to use her magical abilities. In 2008, she participated of one episode of the TV series Casos e Acasos, and starred the end of the year special Aline.\n\nHer international career started in the Fernando Meirelles film \"360\", starring Anthony Hopkins, Rachel Weisz and Jude Law.\n\nBesides working as an actress, Maria Flor starred the summer campaign for Blue Man, a bikini and Bermuda shorts factory.\n\nMaria Flor was born in Laranjeiras, Rio de Janeiro. She is the daughter of Renato Calaça, a cinema audio technician and Márcia Leite, who is a screenwriter.\n\n"}
{"id": "2165850", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165850", "title": "Ales, Sardinia", "text": "Ales, Sardinia\n\nAles () is a small town in the province of Oristano on the island of Sardinia in the Mediterranean Sea. It lies on the eastern slopes of Mount Arci. This area is the only Sardinian source of obsidian.\n\nTogether with the town of Terralba, Ales forms the Roman Catholic diocese of Ales-Terralba. Its current bishop is Giovanni Dettori. Ales Cathedral, dedicated to Saint Peter, is the bishop's seat.\n\nAntonio Gramsci and Fernando Atzori were born in Ales.\n\nThe nearest international airport is in Cagliari, at roughly distance.\n\n\n<BR>\n"}
{"id": "2165851", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165851", "title": "North Carolina's 9th congressional district", "text": "North Carolina's 9th congressional district\n\nThe 9th Congressional District of North Carolina is a Congressional district in south-central North Carolina. The district's current boundaries were redrawn in February 2016 after a U.S. District Court overturned the existing boundaries because of politically directed gerrymandering that suppressed minority representation. The new congressional district consists of Union, Anson, Richmond, Scotland, and Robeson counties; a southeast portion of Mecklenburg County; and parts of Cumberland and Bladen counties.\n\nRepublicans have held this district since 1963. Republican Robert Pittenger had represented the district since January 2013. In 2018, Pittenger was defeated by challenger Mark Harris in the Republican primary. The latter faced Democrat Dan McCready in the general election.\n\nHarris was initially called as the winner by several hundred votes, but the result was not certified, pending a statewide investigation into allegations of absentee ballot fraud. On February 21, the bipartisan State Election Board unanimously voted to call for a new election for the 9th district, because of ballot fraud by Republican operatives.\n\nA special election was held September 10, 2019, with Democrat Dan McCready running against Republican Dan Bishop, a state senator who won the Republican primary. Bishop won the 2019 special election to the U.S. House of Representatives with 50.8% of the vote to McCready's 48.6%.\n\nIn the Republican primary incumbent Robert Pittenger was defeated by former pastor Mark Harris, who had closely challenged him two years earlier. Harris won 48.5 percent of the vote to Pittenger's 46.2 percent.\n\n\"The New York Times\" described the election between Harris and Democrat Dan McCready as a \"top-tier contest\". In results on election day, Harris defeated McCready by 905 votes, but on November 27, 2018, the North Carolina State Board of Elections and Ethics Reform declined to certify the election results, citing voting irregularities involving absentee ballots. The irregularities in counting and handling of absentee ballots became the subject of a criminal investigation.\n\nOutlets such as the Associated Press and \"FiveThirtyEight\" subsequently retracted calling the race, pending the decision of the state board of elections. On December 1, the chair of the state elections board resigned, saying: \"The investigation of criminal conduct and absentee voting fraud in the 2018 Republican primary and 2018 general election in congressional District 9 is a matter of vital importance to our democracy\", adding that \"I will not allow myself to be used as an instrument of distraction in this investigation\".\n\nOn November 30, the election board of the district decided to hear evidence about “claims of numerous irregularities and concerted fraudulent activities” at a meeting to be held by December 21. A finding of fraud could have resulted in a new election.\n\nOn December 5, 2018, independent investigative reporting of the alleged vote thefts detailed a practice that targeted southern rural elderly black voters in the 9th District congressional race and termed the affair, \"...the most serious federal election tampering case in years.\" Campaign workers revealed that the vote tampering went on in a pervasively chaotic atmosphere. Operatives tracked votes and field workers \"...would come to your house, they would get you to fill out an absentee ballot to be sent to your house. They would go back and pick it up and then seal it and then find two witnesses,\" to certify their validity. Such handling of ballots and completed applications by other than board and postal workers is legally prohibited. An informant tabulated the number of ballots delivered to the county election board and said an indicted leader gave the Harris campaign updates on the operation's most recent totals. The leader was employed by Red Dome political consultants which received over $428,000 from the Harris campaign. The informant had delivered 185 absentee ballot applications and the leader personally delivered 592 more. On December 6, Democratic candidate McCready withdrew his earlier submitted election concession. Republican candidate Harris agreed for a new election to be held if allegations of election fraud could be proven by the election board to have affected the contest's outcome. The leader of the North Carolina Republicans, Robin Hayes, stated on December 11 that, regardless to what extent election fraud could be proven to have altered the election, a new election would be necessary in the state's 9th Congressional District if investigators can verify a local newspaper report that early voting results in Bladen County were leaked before Election Day.\n\nOn December 28, the state court dissolved the state election board, before it had certified election results. The election board's staff announced that it would continue the investigation, but delayed hearings until a new election board was seated, presumably on January 31. Democratic Governor Roy Cooper's attempts to fill an interim board were overridden by the Republican-controlled legislature. Incoming United States House of Representatives Majority Leader Steny Hoyer, a Democrat, announced that the House of Representatives would not seat Harris under any circumstances until the fraud investigation is completed. Harris announced he would seek court intervention to have him immediately certified as the winner and stated his intention to join the 116th Congress on January 3. However, Harris was not permitted to join the new Congress on January 3.\n\nOn February 21, the bipartisan state board of elections voted to hold a new election, because, according to board chairman Bob Cordle, \"irregularities and improprieties ... tainted the results ... and cast doubt on its fairness.\" A newly passed law by the North Carolina state legislature will require the parties to hold new primaries before the general election for this seat. Harris has said that he will not run again.\n\nDemocrat Dan McCready, a veteran and business executive, was unopposed as his party's nominee for this seat, following his narrow initial loss to Mark Harris in the election voided because of alleged ballot fraud by Republican operatives. After the Republicans conducted their primary, they nominated Dan Bishop, a North Carolina state senator, to run in the special election to be held in September 2019. On September 10, 2019, Bishop won with over 50% of the vote.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2165862", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165862", "title": "9th G7 summit", "text": "9th G7 summit\n\nThe 9th G7 Summit was held at Williamsburg, Virginia, United States between May 28 and 30, 1983. The venue for the summit meetings was Colonial Williamsburg in Virginia.\n\nThe Group of Seven (G7) was an unofficial forum which brought together the heads of the richest industrialized countries: France, West Germany, Italy, Japan, the United Kingdom, the United States, Canada (since 1976) and the President of the European Commission (starting officially in 1981). The summits were not meant to be linked formally with wider international institutions; and in fact, a mild rebellion against the stiff formality of other international meetings was a part of the genesis of cooperation between France's President Giscard d'Estaing and West Germany's Chancellor Helmut Schmidt as they conceived the first Group of Six (G6) summit in 1975.\n\nThe G7 is an unofficial annual forum for the leaders of Canada, the European Commission, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, the United Kingdom and the United States. This was the first summit where none of the original participants from 1975 were still in office.\n\nThe 9th G7 summit was the first summit for German Chancellor Helmut Kohl, Italian Prime Minister Amintore Fanfani and Japanese Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone.\n\nThese summit participants are the current \"core members\" of the international forum:\n\nThe summit was intended as a venue for resolving differences among its members. As a practical matter, the summit was also conceived as an opportunity for its members to give each other mutual encouragement in the face of difficult economic decisions.\n\nMeetings of the G7 focus on issues related to the economy and multinational efforts to connect these issues. However, talks led by President Reagan at this G7 Summit also concentrated on tensions with the Soviet Union and the need for missile deployment in Europe to encourage the Soviet Union to return to arms control talks in Geneva. A bilateral discussion was held between President Reagan and Prime Minister Thatcher prior to the G-7 meeting. Margaret Thatcher stressed the need to reaffirm the NATO double-track decision of 1979 approach to talks with the Soviets. Mrs. Thatcher and President Reagan agreed that it would be helpful to have G-7 reaffirm the decision. However, President Mitterrand and Prime Minister Trudeau were hesitant to agree. The first meeting of the leaders was head of state only. At the coffee hour Reagan appeared concerned that it would not be possible to get full agreement. Following the coffee break the first meeting of the Summit, President Reagan forged an agreement with the strong support of Prime Minister Nakasone of Japan, Chancellor Kohl of Germany and Prime Minister Thatcher. The need to deploy the Pershing II missiles was reached and reaffirmed. This decision showed the unity of Western leaders as they forged ahead to seek meaningful arms control agreements with the Soviet Union and it was a critical step in the arms control agreements reached between Soviet General Secretary Gorbachev and President Reagan two years later at the Geneva Summit, the first meeting between these two leaders.\n\nIn addition to the reinforcement of the double-track decision on arms control, the leaders were confronted with a stubborn world economy, double digit inflation, high interest rates and high unemployment. These economic conditions were stimulated, in part, due to higher oil prices in the early 1980s caused by the Iranian Revolution. The G-7 summit a year earlier had been held in Versailles, hosted by President Mitterrand. Reagan felt that it was important to stress the importance of free markets and free trade and transparency in international dealings. After two days of debate, the leaders agreed to the Williamsburg Declaration, which stands as quite unique in terms of G-7 communiques as it was a short ten point declaration and it was read in its entirety by President Reagan seated before the other leaders The significance of the Declaration cannot be over-emphasized as it was the free market principles agreed to by the leaders at the summit that provided an international environment of free trade and investment that propelled the world economies out of economic recession toward durable economic growth of twenty years. The declaration was prepared by a small team of NSC advisers close to Reagan.\n\nThe Williamsburg Economic Summit was the only international meeting chaired by President Reagan.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2165866", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165866", "title": "Antigua Recreation Ground", "text": "Antigua Recreation Ground\n\nAntigua Recreation Ground is the national stadium of Antigua and Barbuda. It is located in St. John's, on the island of Antigua. The ground has been used by the West Indies cricket team and Antigua and Barbuda national football team. It had Test cricket status. It was also known as the Old Recreation Ground, or the Old Rec.\n\nA number of great cricketers, including Andy Roberts and Richie Richardson, began their first-class careers there.\n\nOne of Antigua's most famous sons, Viv Richards, scored the fastest Test match century off 56 balls\nagainst England in the \"\"Blackwash\"\" series of 1986 at the Recreation Ground. It was also where Brian Lara twice set the record for highest individual Test innings, scoring 375 in 1994 and the current record of 400 not out in 2004, both times against England.\n\nIn May 2003 the West Indies completed the highest ever successful run chase in Test Cricket at the ARG, making 418/7 against Australia in their fourth innings to win by 3 wickets. \n\nAntigua is considered to be a good wicket on which to bat — hard and dry whilst not offering much bounce or movement to bowlers. This is colloquially known as a \"featherbed\".\n\nAfter the building of the Sir Vivian Richards Stadium for the 2007 World Cup, no further Test cricket was expected at the Recreation Ground. However, due to the abandonment of the Second Test between West Indies v England on 13 February 2009 after just ten balls (due to an unfit outfield), an extra Test, called the Third Test, began at the Antigua Recreation Ground on 15 February 2009, despite concerns about the dilapidated condition of the stadium.\n\nLike many other cricket grounds in the Caribbean, the Antigua Recreation Ground traditionally hosts a variety of off the field entertainment, particularly music, both live and recorded, during breaks in play. For many years, an entertainer called \"Gravy\" would operate in the stands, usually in fancy dress.\n\nA total of 16 five-wicket hauls were taken in Test matches on the ground.\n\n"}
{"id": "2165872", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165872", "title": "Papilio palinurus", "text": "Papilio palinurus\n\nPapilio palinurus, the emerald swallowtail, emerald peacock or green-banded peacock, is a butterfly of the genus \"Papilio\" of the family Papilionidae. It is native to Southeast Asia, but is regularly kept in butterfly houses around the world.\n\nThere are several subspecies (from Burma, Borneo, Indonesia, Nias and the Philippines).\n\n\nThe genus name \"Papilio\" comes from the Latin word \"papilio\" meaning butterfly. The species name \"palinurus\" derives from Palinurus, the name of the pilot of Aeneas's boat in Virgil's \"Aeneid\".\n\n\"Papilio palinurus\" has a wingspan reaching about . The dorsal sides of the wings are covered by a powder of green scales and the background vary from dark greenish to black, with broad bright emerald green metallic bands. The undersides are black with orange, white and blue spots along the edges of hindwings, that show extended tails at the end.\n\nThe flight of these butterflies is swift and quite fast. Caterpillars feed on plants of genus \"Euodia\" belonging to the Rutaceae, commonly known as the rue or citrus family.\n\nThe iridescent green sheen of the bands of this butterfly is not produced by pigments, but is structural coloration produced by the microstructure of the wing scales. They refract the light and give rise to blue and yellow visible reflections, producing the perception of green color when additively mixed.\n\nThis species can be found primarily in Southeast Asia, particularly in Burma - Peninsular Malaysia, Sumatra, Borneo, Indonesia (Simeulue, Island of Nias), Philippines (Basilan, Palawan, Balabac, Cuyo, Busuanga and Dumaran).\n\n\"Papilio palinurus\" lives in Asian primary forests.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2165881", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165881", "title": "Parks and gardens of Melbourne", "text": "Parks and gardens of Melbourne\n\nMelbourne is considered to be Australia's \"garden city\", and Victoria as \"the Garden State\". There is an abundance of parks and gardens close to the CBD with a variety of common and rare plant species amid landscaped vistas, pedestrian pathways, and tree lined avenues. The phrase \"Victoria – Garden State\" was used on Victorian car number plates from the 1970s to 1994, and many regional towns have well tended botanic gardens, parks and tree lined avenues.\n\nThe first superintendent of the Port Phillip region, Charles La Trobe, set aside large tracts of land around the city for open space, parkland and gardens. Much of this land has since been excised for public infrastructure like sporting complexes, railways, hospitals and other public buildings, and also for residential development, but a substantial amount has remained. This allowed landscape designer Clement Hodgkinson and Director of the Royal Botanic Gardens, Melbourne, William Guilfoyle, to landscape many of the parks and gardens. Many of these parks and gardens are within easy walking distance of the central business district.\n\nOne of Melbourne's oldest parks is Flagstaff Gardens (7.2 ha). Used by office workers at lunchtime, the park contains a memorial to the first Europeans who died in the colony and were buried on the site between 1835 and 1840 when it was the original site of Melbourne Cemetery (later moved).\n\nOne of the most highly regarded gardens is the Royal Botanic Gardens (35.4 ha) and Kings Domain (36 ha) just across the Yarra River from the central business district. These gardens, originally a swamp, now house a fine collection of botanical species. The Botanic Gardens were established by Superintendent La Trobe in 1846. Its first Curator was John Arthur, a gardener from Heidelberg, who died shortly after. He was succeeded by John Dallachy, who was succeeded by Ferdinand von Mueller. Baron von Mueller was relieved of duties in 1873, and was succeeded by William Guilfoyle, who re-landscaped the gardens extensively and gave them their current form. They are highly prized for their landscaping, with parkland containing lakes, monuments and statues. Queen Elizabeth II granted the title 'Royal' to the Gardens after visiting early in her reign. Walking around the Botanic Gardens there are views of Government House. Kings Domain contains open lawns and stands of both native and exotic trees, which surround Government House, the Shrine of Remembrance and the Sidney Myer Music Bowl. Queen Victoria Gardens (4.8 ha) and Alexandra Gardens (5.2 ha) continue the parkland along St Kilda Road to the banks of the Yarra River. The Pioneer Women's Memorial Garden is also located within Kings Domain.\n\nThe Carlton Gardens (26 ha) and the Royal Exhibition Building are located to the north of the central business district in the suburb of Carlton and are listed as a World Heritage Site. The gardens contain varied European and Australian tree plantings consisting of deciduous English oaks, White Poplars, Plane trees, Elms, Conifers, Cedars, Turkey Oaks, Araucarias and evergreens such as Moreton Bay Figs, combined with flower beds of annuals and shrubs. At the south end of the gardens, the Melbourne International Flower and Garden Show is held each April, while the Melbourne Museum and Imax theatre are located to the north of the Exhibition Building. A children's playground can be found in the northern gardens.\n\nRoyal Park (181 ha) is located four kilometres north of the CBD and features sporting ovals, the State Netball Hockey centre, the Royal Melbourne Zoological Gardens and the 2006 Commonwealth Games Athlete's Village was constructed on former hospital grounds that were once also part of Royal Park. The exclusive suburb of Parkville was excised from the parkland, as well as the Royal Melbourne Hospital, the Royal Children's Hospital, Melbourne, and University High School. These sites separate it from neighbouring Princes Park (38.6 ha).\n\nTo the east of Spring Street and the CBD are the Treasury Gardens (5.8 ha) and the Fitzroy Gardens (26 ha). The Treasury Gardens are a short walk from Victoria's Parliament House and are overlooked by the old Treasury buildings, and State Offices. Due to their central location close to the city, they are a popular spot as the starting or ending point for political rallies, demonstrations and festivals, including the annual May Day march, which has been held there since 1999.\n\nAcross Lansdowne Street from Treasury Gardens are the Fitzroy Gardens, one of the major Victorian era landscaped gardens in Australia designed by Clement Hodgkinson. Within the gardens are Captain Cook's Cottage, an ornamental lake, kiosk and café, Model Tudor village, the fairy tree, and a tree scarred by the original Wurundjeri inhabitants.\n\nFurther east of the CBD is Yarra Park (35.469 ha) with the Melbourne Cricket Ground located within its boundaries. Initially the area was used as police paddocks for the agistment of police horses, but by the 1860s five recreational ovals were marked out including the MCG oval. The park features several sculptures of Australian sporting heroes and examples of old eucalypt trees which show scars caused by harvesting of bark for canoes by the original inhabitants of the Yarra River Valley. The park stretches to the northern banks of the Yarra River via Gosh's paddock, but is divided by several railway lines linking Richmond station to Flinders Street Station, Swan Street and Batman Avenue.\n\nThe Olympic Park stadium, home to the Melbourne Storm in the national rugby league, was once the precinct of the Friendly Society Gardens. The redevelopment of the railway yards and Federation Square allowed for the creation of a new riverside park, Birrurung Marr (8 ha), opened in 2002. Birrarung Marr has been designed to incorporate long lines of sight towards various landmarks, such as the spire at the Victorian Arts Centre and the towers of St Paul's Cathedral. The park incorporates in the south-eastern corner the original speakers mounds of Speakers Corner, the location for Sunday soapbox oratory and public protests and demonstrations up to 1998, when the site was closed for redevelopment.\n\nIn the suburb of Albert Park, St Vincent Gardens is a park of national significance which provides an example of nineteenth century residential development around a large landscaped square. It was influenced by similar urban design in London, but on such a scale unparalleled in Australia.\n\nThe Australian Grand Prix is held around the Albert Park Lake on the Melbourne Grand Prix Circuit in Albert Park. This park provides space for the Albert Park Public Golf Course and numerous sporting grounds and ovals. The decision to hold the race there was controversial. A series of protests were organised by the \"Save Albert Park\" group in 1995 and 1996, who claimed that the race turned a public park into a private playground for much of the year.\n\nOther parks of note in the inner suburbs include Edinburgh Gardens (c. 24 ha) in North Fitzroy, Fawkner Park (41 ha), Como Park and Victoria Gardens in South Yarra, Alma Park and the St Kilda Botanical Gardens in St Kilda, Hedgeley Dene Gardens and Central Park in Malvern, Princes Park in Caulfield, and Footscray Park in Footscray, and Hays Paddock in Kew East.\n\nWhile most attention is paid to parks and gardens in the inner urban area around the CBD, extensive and significant parks and rivers can also be found around the outer suburbs of Melbourne. These include:\n\n\nThe Dandenong Ranges to the east of Melbourne are famous for their gardens, which are established on rich volcanic soil in a high rainfall area. A popular pastime during autumn is to drive through the hills viewing the vibrant foliage of deciduous trees. Some public gardens in the Ranges include:\n\n\nResidential gardening is a popular pastime throughout Melbourne, and the city is known for its leafy green suburbs. Many private gardens open for public viewing through Australia's Open Garden Scheme, which started in Melbourne.\n\n"}
{"id": "2165887", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165887", "title": "Alfred Naujocks", "text": "Alfred Naujocks\n\nAlfred Helmut Naujocks (20 September 1911 – 4 April 1966), alias \"Hans Müller\", \"Alfred Bonsen\", and \"Rudolf Möbert\", was a German SS functionary during the Third Reich. He took part in the staged Gleiwitz incident, a False flag intended to provide the justification for the attack on Poland by Nazi Germany, starting the Second World War in Europe.\n\nNaujocks was born in Kiel and attended the University of Kiel, where he studied engineering. In 1931, after an incomplete apprenticeship as a precision mechanic, he joined the SS. A well known amateur boxer, he was frequently in brawls with the communists. He then signed on as a low-ranking driver for the Sicherheitsdienst SD-Regional Command East, Berlin in 1934, but was soon entrusted with special assignments such as murder. He led an undercover attack on an anti-Nazi radio station in the village of Slapy in Czechoslovakia on 23 January 1935. Black Front activist Rudolf Formis was killed in the incident; Naujocks confessed to the murder in 1944 while in American custody. By the Autumn of 1937, Naujocks had been promoted to \"Hauptsturmführer\" (captain) and by 1938 had been promoted again, to \"Sturmbannführer\" (major).\n\nOn 10 August 1939, Reinhard Heydrich informed Naujocks of his mission to lead a small group of German operatives to seize the Gleiwitz radio station. Three weeks later, on the night of 31 August, Naujocks led the attack on the German radio station at Gleiwitz, one of twenty-one similar concentrated attacks which the German government quickly attributed to the Poles. Once inside the radio station, a short anti-German message in Polish was broadcast (the precise content of the message is now uncertain). Shots were fired in the studio and a corpse left on the floor near the microphone.\n\nTo add documented proof of this attack, the SD operatives placed fictitious Polish troops (corpses of prisoners from the Dachau concentration camp who had been dressed in Polish uniforms provided by the Abwehr, killed by lethal injection, and then shot for the sake of appearances) around the attacked radio station for selected members of the press to see at the site of the incident. These attacks, but not exclusively the Gleiwitz incident, formed Hitler's justification to the Reichstag regarding the necessary \"pacification\" of Poland, thereby igniting the Second World War in Europe.\n\nMore recently, author and researcher Jak Mallmann-Showell's investigation has suggested that Naujocks's claims as to his actions at the Gleiwitz radio station may have been a fabrication to curry special handling by the Allies after the war. Mallmann-Showell discerned that Naujocks is the sole source for details of his personal actions on the night of 31 August 1939. He also avers that the Poles may have accessed the site to obtain Enigma machine secrets for the allies.\n\nLater, on 9 November 1939, Naujocks (along with Walter Schellenberg) participated in the Venlo incident, which saw the capture in the Netherlands of two British SIS agents, Captain Sigismund Payne Best and Major Richard Henry Stevens.\n\nIn early 1940, Naujocks was put in charge of the counterfeiting unit of the SD charged with forging British bank notes under Operation Andreas. By late 1940 Naujocks had been removed from his position after he fell out of favor with Heydrich.\n\nIn 1941, he was dismissed from the SD after disputing one of Reinhard Heydrich's orders. He was demoted and had to serve in the Waffen-SS on the Eastern Front. In 1943, due to ill health, he was sent to the West, where he served as an economic administrator the following year for German troops in Belgium, while involving himself in the deaths of several Belgian underground and Danish resistance members.\n\nAfter his promotion to \"Obersturmführer\" (first lieutenant) he participated in sabotage and terrorist actions against the Danish population from December 1943 until autumn 1944, as the leader of the \"Peter Group\", including the murder of Lutheran pastor Kaj Munk. Later leadership passed to SS-Hauptsturmführer Otto Alexander Friedrich Schwerdt (SS-Jagdverbände). Circa November 1944, Naujocks turned himself over to American forces, who subsequently placed him in detention as a possible war criminal by the end of the war.\n\nAt the Nuremberg Trials, Naujocks declared the attack against German Radio Tower in Gleiwitz was under orders from Heinrich Müller, the head of Gestapo and his superior, Reinhard Heydrich. \nAfter the war, he escaped from custody before his trial for war crimes, and lived in hiding into the 1960s. He worked as a businessman in Hamburg, where he eventually sold his story to the media as \"The Man who Started the War\". He was alleged to have been involved in running ODESSA, together with Otto Skorzeny, who handled contracts with the Spanish government, supplying passports and arranging for funds. Naujocks and his associates handled former Nazi war criminals going to Latin America, being responsible for their reception and protection there. Naujocks died of a heart attack in Hamburg on 4 April 1966, aged 54.\n\n"}
{"id": "2165892", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165892", "title": "Biesbosch National Park", "text": "Biesbosch National Park\n\nThe Biesbosch National Park is one of the largest national parks of the Netherlands and one of the last extensive areas of freshwater tidal wetlands in Northwestern Europe. The Biesbosch ('forest of sedges' or 'rushwoods') consists of a large network of rivers and smaller and larger creeks with islands. The vegetation is mostly willow forests, although wet grasslands and fields of reed are common as well. The Biesbosch is an important wetland area for waterfowl and has a rich flora and fauna. It is especially important for migrating geese.\n\nThe Biesbosch National Park consists of the following major parts:\n\nThe most northern part of the Biesbosch. This is the part of the Biesbosch with the most significant tidal influence (one of the distinctive characteristics of the Biesbosch). The Sliedrechtse Biesbosch is named after the town of Sliedrecht, which was drowned during the creation of the Biesbosch and was later rebuilt on the other side of the river Beneden Merwede (one of the borders of the Biesbosch). The eastern part of the Sliedrechtse Biesbosch is one of the few areas in the Netherlands that has an intact system of river dunes.\n\n\nThe westernmost part of the Biesbosch and the largest remnant of the (once much larger) South Hollandic part of the Biesbosch. The Hollandse Biesbosch is the part of the National Park best known for its birds.\n\n\nThe eastern and largest part of the Biesbosch, which is separated from the rest of the Biesbosch by the Nieuwe Merwede river (which serves as the borderline between the provinces of South Holland and North Brabant). The Brabantse Biesbosch can be divided in three parts, from which only the so-called Zuidwaard belongs to the National Park. The Zuidwaard of the Brabantse Biesbosch has fewer fields of reeds and sedges compared to the rest of the National Park and consists mostly of willow forests.\n\nThe National Park occupies only half of the original Biesbosch area. The other half has been reclaimed and consists mostly of farmland. It can be divided in several parts as well:\n\n\nThe part of the Biesbosch that borders the city of Dordrecht. It is located between the Sliedrechtse Biesbosch and the Hollandse Biesbosch. Although the Dordtse Biesbosch has largely an agricultural destination, it also contains several recreational areas which serves as the \"playground\" for the people of Dordrecht.\n\n\nThe most central part of the Biesbosch and the subject of much recent controversy. The Noordwaard has only been reclaimed during the 20th century and hosts some of most fertile farmlands in the entire Netherlands. However, as a result of the high water levels in the Dutch rivers during the 1990s, the government has decided to undo the reclamation and reconnect the Noordwaard to the Merwede rivers (essentially the Rhine). In this way it can serve as a buffer and be of much importance in the prevention of dike breaks and subsequent flooding in densely populated areas in the Rhine-Meuse-Scheldt delta. The first phase of the \"de-poldering\" has been completed by 2008 and the resulting wetlands have been added to the National Park. The second phase will be completed somewhere between 2015 and 2020.\n\n\nThe easternmost and oldest part of the Biesbosch does not resemble the rest of the Biesbosch and consists mainly of farmland and expanded neighbourhoods of towns along the Biesbosch border (such as Werkendam, Nieuwendijk and Hank), along with a few creek remnants. Much of the Oostwaard has been reclaimed during the 17th and 18th centuries.\n\nThe Biesbosch was created when 300 square kilometres of polder lands were submerged in the St. Elizabeth flood in the year 1421. Before this, the area was called Grote Hollandse Waard, containing cultivated land and a number of villages. The more than a century old dikes collapsed because of lack of maintenance, due to the difficult economic situation in the area, and the difficulties between the political entities within (especially the Hook and Cod (civil) wars).\n\nOne of the key factors in the flooding of the Grote Waard was the creation of a new dike in the southwest of the polder. The ground beneath this dike was unstable, which was a known (but underestimated) fact in this period of time. However, combined with political rivalry and financial issues, this resulted in the creation of an unstable dike, located at one of the key corners of the Grote Waard. It was the only place where high tides coming directly from the sea could penetrate the land deeply and could reach a primary \"keystone\" dike of the Grote Waard (most of the primary dikes were used as protection against rivers instead).\n\nVery high river levels combined with a severe storm surge coming in from the sea caused the collapse of the southwest dike and several riverdikes, resulting in the flooding of most of the Grote Hollandse Waard. After the flood, three areas remained: the Island of Dordrecht to the west, the Land van Altena (with the city of Woudrichem) to the east, and the brackish swamps of the Biesbosch in between. Many villages (by tradition 72) were swallowed by the flood and were lost, causing (again by tradition) either 2,000 or 10,000 casualties. Some towns had more luck and submerged, only to rise above the water later on.\n\nMany Rhine-Meuse delta branches that were closed off from the main rivers and served as drainage bodies of the Grote Waard, also disappeared. These include the Dubbel (the name of which survives in Dubbeldam), Eem, Werken (after which Werkendam is named), Graaf, Alm (which lent its name to Almkerk; the eastern part survived) and most of the main drainage stream: the Oude Maas (a small part survives in the form of the Oude Maasje, not to be confused with another branch called Oude Maas near Rotterdam).\n\nMost of the flooded area changed into a network of estuaries. The most important of those were the Hollands Diep (\"Holland Deep\") and the (shallow) Heidezee (\"Heath Sea\"). Both were connected to the Haringvliet which existed before the disaster as a pure seawater inlet of the North Sea. After the disaster it became brackish and an important estuary of the rivers Rhine and Meuse. A persistent misunderstanding is that the Biesbosch arose by this storm flood in one night. It is true that this flood broke dikes of the then Grote Hollandse Waard or Zuid Hollandse Waard, but it needed dozens of years before the whole area was under water and had changed to the Biesbosch with its creeks and reeds.\n\nAt first, the Heidezee was a shallow but extended body of water, with high tides but also a predominance of fresh water. The deposits of the rivers caused the land to become only submerged at high tides. From that moment on the area was called the Bergse Veld (\"Fields of Geertruidenberg\") and, later on (during the 18th century), the Biesbosch (although a small patch of swamp had been known as Biesbosch even before the flood). A network of interconnecting creeks, mudflats and forested areas arose, which served as a sort of inland delta of the large rivers feeding it. A significant result of this was that the former estuary arms of the Rhine and Meuse, further north-west, were devoid of much of the inflow of fresh water. This caused the rivers to fill with deposits, so the important shipping route between Rotterdam and the inland areas was no longer usable.\n\nDuring the last centuries, conditions changed significantly. Most of the Biesbosch was reclaimed and turned into polders. The Rhine-Meuse connection with Rotterdam was restored by preventing the build-up of deposits by artificial means. Most of the Biesbosch creeks were closed off at their upstream end to lower the risk of flooding. The confluence of the Meuse and Rhine rivers was closed off as well and the Meuse received a new, artificial mouth: the Bergse Maas. By separating rivers Meuse and Rhine before they reach the Biesbosch, their flow can be controlled better. A second ship canal was created to better distribute the flow of the river Rhine as well: the Nieuwe Merwede, which divides the Biesbosch into two parts: the \"lesser\" Biesbosch, now the southeastern part of the Island of Dordrecht, and the \"greater\" Biesbosch. As a result of these hydrological changes, the Biesbosch lost its function as a river delta and now only receives water directly from the rivers in times of high discharges.\n\nDuring World War II, the area was used by Dutch residents to hide out from the German occupation forces in the Netherlands. A resistance group was formed that, late in the war, captured Germans fleeing to the north from what was then the Allied-held south of the Netherlands. In the winter of 1944, the area was crossed by refugees from the occupied north, while, at the same time, it was being used to smuggle medicines to the north. The people that coordinated these activities are known as the Biesbosch crossers and are commonly regarded as national heroes. Many Dutch books and a few movies are based on this resistance group.\n\nBefore 1970 a connection with the sea existed, and the tidal differences were, on average, two meters. Despite the diminished inflow of the Meuse and Waal rivers, fresh water continued to dominate. The tidal differences almost disappeared after 1970 when the Delta Works closed the Haringvliet and with it the Biesbosch's direct connection with the sea. Only in the northern part of the Biesbosch (the so-called Sliedrechtse Biesbosch) some of the tidal difference remained (20–80 cm on average). The diminishing of the tidal difference caused a dramatic transformation of the Biesbosch, which mostly changed into a willow forest with small remnants of the once mighty delta streams. The creation of the Haringvlietdam also blocked the main route for migrating fish. The influence of both rivers and sea had now mostly gone.\n\nThe Dutch government has decided to undo most of the reclamation and give it back to nature and to reconnect the main rivers with the Biesbosch creeks. This decision has been made as a result of extremely high river discharges in 1993 and 1995. This means that a large part of the Biesbosch will return to its original state: an interconnected network of rivers and creeks, serving as an inland river delta. The area can then be used as a natural buffer to prevent major floods and to lower the risk of very high river levels. This will also restore some of the natural situation and will result in an expansion of the habitat of many animals. Much of this operation is near completion as of 2014.\n\nEspecially the beaver population could profit from these hydrological changes (and, as of 2014, they indeed expanded their range significantly). It would also hopefully create the right conditions for the return of the osprey and the white-tailed eagle as breeding birds. Because of recent nature development of new wetlands the great egret and the little egret have already become familiar elements in the Biesbosch today. There is also an increase in the population of bitterns and kingfishers. Moreover, as of 2014 a couple of white-tailed eagles has been breeding in the Biesbosch for several years in a row. Ospreys have been using the Biesbosch as a feeding ground for several years now, with as a result the first Dutch-born Ospreys in the spring of 2016.\n\nThere are also plans to restore the estuary function of the Haringvliet and Hollands Diep, restoring the natural shift from fresh to salty water and allow the return of the tides in the Biesbosch. A first step will be opening some of the sluices of the Haringvlietdam. This will result in a minimal return of tidal effects without having a dramatic impact on the landscape, because a full opening of the dam will make most of the surrounding farming areas unusable, as a result of the influx of salty water. One should note the fact that in times of severe floods coming from the North Sea, the dam will still be able to close and serve in a similar way as the Oosterscheldekering.\n\nThe partial opening of the Haringvlietdam will create an opportunity for migrating fish to enter the Rhine and Meuse rivers, restoring the natural situation. This will hopefully result in the return of the salmon, trout, shad, smelt and many other species of fish. It will also create opportunities for the almost extinct southern Dutch population of seals (now mostly restricted to parts of the Oosterschelde). Seals used to be a common sight in the Biesbosch despite the fact that the area is dominated by freshwater. Their presence ended in 1970, although a few individuals somehow managed to reach the Biesbosch afterwards. The partial opening of the Haringvlietdam will restore some of the natural situation.\n\nIn the future possibly moose will be re-introduced in the area.\n\nThe area still faces many threats. One of them is the pollution of water and soil. Many streambeds contain severely polluted sediments, a remainder from the sixties and seventies, when the rivers Rhine and Meuse were much more polluted than they are today. Because there is little net flow in the Biesbosch (because the connection with both rivers and the sea has been blocked, although this will change in the future) the build-up of polluted sediments in the Biesbosch has been severe. Completely restoring the Biesbosch ecosystem cannot happen without an extensive cleanup of all the creeks, which will be an enormous and costly task.\n\nAnother threat to the Biesbosch ecosystem is the extensive water recreation in the area. The Biesbosch has, however, both strong natural and recreational values, so banning all recreational activities in the area is not an option. Finding the right balance in this issue will be a challenge. Other threats include the construction of yacht-basins, urban expansion and plans for exploitation of natural gas reserves.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2165901", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165901", "title": "Jaw jerk reflex", "text": "Jaw jerk reflex\n\nThe jaw jerk reflex or the masseter reflex is a stretch reflex used to test the status of a patient's trigeminal nerve (cranial nerve V) and to help distinguish an upper cervical cord compression from lesions that are above the foramen magnum. The mandible—or lower jaw—is tapped at a downward angle just below the lips at the chin while the mouth is held slightly open. In response, the masseter muscles will jerk the mandible upwards. Normally this reflex is absent or very slight. However, in individuals with upper motor neuron lesions the jaw jerk reflex can be quite pronounced.\n\nThe jaw jerk reflex can be classified as a dynamic stretch reflex. As with most other reflexes, the response to the stimulus is monosynaptic, with sensory neurons of the trigeminal mesencephalic nucleus sending axons to the trigeminal motor nucleus, which in turn innervates the masseter. This reflex is used to judge the integrity of the upper motor neurons projecting to the trigeminal motor nucleus. Both the sensory and motor aspects of this reflex are through CN V.\n\nIt is not part of a standard neurological examination. It is performed when there are other signs of damage to the trigeminal nerve.\n\nThe clinical presentation of cervical spondylotic myelopathy can be similar to multiple sclerosis (MS) or amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), however, a hyperactive jaw reflex suggests the pathology is above the foramen magnum. In other words, a normal jaw jerk reflex points the diagnosis toward cervical spondylotic myelopathy and away from MS or ALS.\n\nStudies have shown that there is a significant effect of gender on the jaw jerk reflex. Electromyographs are used to measure the impulse within the muscle, allowing the amplitude of the impulse to be known and shown on a graph. The ECMs were focussed on the masseter muscle and temporalis muscle. Females showed a significantly higher amplitude – meaning that the impulse was larger – than males. This should be taken into account when interpreting ECM results, as a female’s graphs will normally show a higher peak to peak amplitude than a male. The mean latency of the impulse was also found to be shorter in females than in males. This variation in women appears to be constant, and is not affected by the menstrual cycle.\n\nStudies have shown that there has been a slight general increase in latency of this reflex with increasing age. Latency is defined here as the time taken between the chin tap to the first obvious deflection as seen on the subject. The most prominent decline in masseteric activity was recorded in patients aged 75 years and older, which might be due to the reduction in both tendon and superficial reflexes. A study also reports that 52% of the elderly exhibit an absence of jaw jerk reflex, in an average age of 81.8 years.\n\nJaw muscles do not display very prominent changes in muscular tissue with age in healthy elderly, as their oral cavities are in constant motor movement (i.e.: performing tasks such as talking and chewing etc.). This motion delays the decrease in lean body mass and aids protein retention that comes with age, preventing the muscular tissues from wearing and tearing.\n\nAmerican neurologist Morris Lewis (1852–1928) first described the jaw jerk. But several textbooks of neurology and clinical neurophysiology attribute discovery of the jaw jerk reflex to Armand de Watteville (1846–1925) as he correctly predicted that the jaw jerk would be valuable to detect disease affecting bulbar nuclei \n\n"}
{"id": "2165902", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165902", "title": "Dominican War of Independence", "text": "Dominican War of Independence\n\nThe Dominican Independence War gave the Dominican Republic autonomy from Haiti on February 27, 1844. Before the war, the island of Hispaniola had been united under the Haitian government for a period of 22 years when the newly independent nation, previously known as the Captaincy General of Santo Domingo, was unified with Haiti in 1822. The criollo class within the country overthrew the Spanish crown in 1821 before unifying with Haiti a year later.\n\nAfter ousting the Haitian occupying force from the country, Dominican nationalists had to fight against a series of attempted invasions from 1844 to 1856. Haitian soldiers would make incessant attacks to try to regain control of the territory, but these efforts were to no avail as the Dominicans would go on to win every battle henceforth. \n\nAt the beginning of the 1800s, the colony of Santo Domingo, which had once been the headquarters of Spanish power in the New World, was in its worst decline. Spain during this time was embroiled in the Peninsular War in Europe, and other various wars to maintain control of the Americas. With Spain's resources spread among its global interest, Santo Domingo and other Caribbean territories became neglected. This period is referred to as the España Boba era.\n\nThe population of the Spanish colony stood at approximately 80,000 with the vast majority being European descendants and free people of color. For most of its history, Santo Domingo had an economy based on mining and cattle ranching. The Spanish colony's plantation economy never truly flourished, because of this the black slave population had been significantly lower than that of the neighboring Saint-Domingue, which was nearing a million slaves before the Haitian Revolution.\n\nLate in 1821 the leader José Núñez de Cáceres proclaimed Santo Domingo's adhesion to the new “Republic of Gran Colombia”, created by Simón Bolívar, but the determination of the island elite to perpetuate their privileged status by maintaining intact all colonial-era institutions such as social hierarchy, land titles, and slavery doomed this limited experiment in liberty to failure two months later.\n\nA group of Dominican politicians and military officers had expressed interest in uniting the entire island, while they sought for political stability and support under Haiti, which at the time was still seen as having a great deal of wealth and power. Haiti had been by far the richest colony in the western hemisphere and was known as the \"Pearl of the Antilles\".\n\nHaiti's president, Jean Pierre Boyer, promised his full protection and support to the frontier governors, and thus he ceremoniously entered the country with around 10,000 soldiers in February 1822, after most of the cities and towns proclaimed their allegiance to the Republic of Haiti between November 1821 and January 1822, including Puerto Plata (December 13, 1821) and Santiago (December 29, 1821). On February 9, 1822, Boyer formally entered the capital city, Santo Domingo, where he was met with enthusiasm and received by Núñez who offered to him the keys of the Palace. Boyer rejected the offer, while saying: \"I have not come into this city as a conqueror but by the will of its inhabitants\". The island was thus united from \"Cape Tiburon to Cape Samana in possession of one government.\"\n\nEventually, the Haitian government became extremely unpopular throughout the country. The Dominican population grew increasingly impatient with Haiti's poor management and perceived incompetence, and the heavy taxation that was imposed on their side. The country was hit with a severe economic crisis after having been forced to pay a huge indemnity to France. A debt was accrued by Haiti in order to pay for their own independence from the European nation; this would give rise to many anti-Haitian plots.\n\nIn 1838 Juan Pablo Duarte, an educated nationalist, founded a resistance movement called \"La Trinitaria\" (\"The Trinity\") along with Ramón Matías Mella and Francisco del Rosario Sánchez. It was so named because its original nine members had organized themselves into cells of three. The cells went on to recruit as separate organizations, maintaining strict secrecy, with little or no direct contact among themselves, in order to minimize the possibility of detection by the Haitian authorities. Many recruits quickly came to the group, but it was discovered and forced to change its name to \"La Filantrópica\" (\"The Philanthropic\").\n\nIn 1843 the revolution made a breakthrough: they worked with a liberal Haitian party that overthrew President Jean-Pierre Boyer. However, the \"Trinitarios\"<nowiki>'</nowiki> work in the overthrow gained the attention of Boyer's replacement, Charles Rivière-Hérard. Rivière-Hérard imprisoned some Trinitarios and forced Duarte to leave the island. While gone, Duarte searched for support in Colombia and Venezuela, but was unsuccessful.\n\nIn December 1843 the rebels told Duarte to return since they had to act quickly because they were afraid the Haitians had learned of their insurrection plans. When Duarte had not returned by February, because of illness, the rebels decided to take action anyway with the leadership of Francisco del Rosario Sánchez, Ramón Matías Mella, and Pedro Santana, a wealthy cattle-rancher from El Seibo who commanded a private army of peons who worked on his estates.\n\nOn February 27, 1844, the rebels seized the Ozama Fortress in the capital. The Haitian garrison, taken by surprise and apparently betrayed by at least one of its sentries, retired in disarray. Within two days, all Haitian officials had left Santo Domingo. Mella headed the provisional governing junta of the new Dominican Republic. On March 14, Duarte finally returned after recovering from his illness and was greeted in celebration. Hérard responded almost immediately. Fielding an army of 30,000 soldiers on March 10, 1844, he entered the new Dominican Republic with the intent of returning the eastern half of the island to Haitian rule. He was quickly defeated, however, and within a month was forced to retreat with his army back into Haiti.\n\nIn early July 1844, Duarte was urged by his followers to take the title of President of the Republic. Duarte agreed, but only if free elections were arranged. However, Santana's forces took Santo Domingo on July 12, 1844, and they declared Santana ruler of the Dominican Republic. Santana then put Mella, Duarte, and Sánchez in jail. On November 6, 1844 a constituent assembly drafted a constitution, which established separation of powers and legislative checks on the executive. However, Santana included in it Article 210, which granted him unlimited power during the current war against Haiti. The war continued throughout September and November 1845, with the Dominicans winning the Battle of Estrelleta and the Battle of Beler.\n\nSantana remained as President until 1848, when he lost the election, only to seize power by a coup d'état the year after, when the Haitian Emperor Faustin Soulouque attacked and was defeated at Ocoa.\n\nHaitian strategy was ridiculed by the American press:\nIn November 1855, Soulouque invaded the Dominican Republic at the head of a 30,000-strong army. But again the Dominicans proved to be superior soldiers, defeating Soulouque's army, which vastly outnumbered them.\n\n"}
{"id": "2165907", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165907", "title": "Joe E. Brown", "text": "Joe E. Brown\n\nJoseph Evans Brown (July 28, 1891 – July 6, 1973) was an American actor and comedian, remembered for his amiable screen persona, comic timing, and enormous elastic-mouth smile. He was one of the most popular American comedians in the 1930s and 1940s, with films like \"A Midsummer Night's Dream\" (1935), \"Earthworm Tractors\" (1936), and \"Alibi Ike\" (1935). In his later career Brown starred in \"Some Like It Hot\" (1959), as Osgood Fielding III, in which he utters the film's famous punchline \"Well, nobody's perfect.\"\n\nBrown was born on July 28, 1891, in Holgate, Ohio, near Toledo, into a large family largely of Welsh descent. He spent most of his childhood in Toledo. In 1902, at the age of ten, he joined a troupe of circus tumblers known as the Five Marvelous Ashtons, who toured the country on both the circus and vaudeville circuits. Later he became a professional baseball player. Despite his skill, he declined an opportunity to sign with the New York Yankees to pursue his career as an entertainer. After three seasons he returned to the circus, then went into vaudeville and finally starred on Broadway. He gradually added comedy to his act, and transformed himself into a comedian. He moved to Broadway in the 1920s, first appearing in the musical comedy \"Jim Jam Jems\".\n\nIn late 1928, Brown began making films, starting the next year with Warner Brothers. He quickly became a favorite with child audiences, and shot to stardom after appearing in the first all-color all-talking musical comedy \"On with the Show\" (1929). He starred in a number of lavish Technicolor musical comedies, including \"Sally\" (1929), \"Hold Everything\" (1930), \"Song of the West\" (1930), and \"Going Wild\" (1930). By 1931, Brown had become such a star that his name was billed above the title in the films in which he appeared.\n\nHe appeared in \"Fireman, Save My Child\" (1932), a comedy in which he played a member of the St. Louis Cardinals, and in \"Elmer, the Great\" (1933) with Patricia Ellis and Claire Dodd and \"Alibi Ike\" (1935) with Olivia de Havilland, in both of which he portrayed ballplayers with the Chicago Cubs.\n\nIn 1933 he starred in \"Son of a Sailor\" with Jean Muir and Thelma Todd. In 1934, Brown starred in \"A Very Honorable Guy\" with Alice White and Robert Barrat, in \"The Circus Clown\" again with Patricia Ellis and with Dorothy Burgess, and with Maxine Doyle in \"Six-Day Bike Rider\".\n\nBrown was one of the few vaudeville comedians to appear in a Shakespeare film; he played Francis Flute in the Max Reinhardt/William Dieterle film version of Shakespeare's \"A Midsummer Night's Dream\" (1935) and was highly praised for his performance. He starred in \"Polo Joe\" (1936) with Carol Hughes and Richard \"Skeets\" Gallagher, and in \"Sons o' Guns\". In 1933 and 1936, he became one of the top 10 earners in films. He was sufficiently well known internationally by this point to be depicted in comic strips in the British comic \"Film Fun\" for 20 years from 1933.\n\nHe left Warner Brothers to work for producer David L. Loew, starring in \"When's Your Birthday?\" (1937). In 1938, he starred in \"The Gladiator\", a loose adaptation of Philip Gordon Wylie's 1930 novel \"Gladiator\" that influenced the creation of \"Superman\". He gradually switched to making \"B\" pictures.\n\nIn 1939, Brown testified before the House Immigration Committee in support of a bill that would allow 20,000 German-Jewish refugee children into the U.S. He later adopted two refugee children.\n\nAt age 50 when the U.S. entered World War II, Brown was too old to enlist. Both of his biological sons served in the military during the war. In 1942, Captain Don E. Brown, was killed when his Douglas A-20 Havoc crashed near Palm Springs, California. \n\nEven before the USO was organized, Brown spent a great deal of time traveling, at his own expense, to entertain troops in the South Pacific, including Guadalcanal, New Zealand and Australia, as well as the Caribbean and Alaska. He was the first to tour in this way and before Bob Hope made similar journeys. Brown also spent many nights working and meeting servicemen at the Hollywood Canteen. He wrote of his experiences entertaining the troops in his book \"Your Kids and Mine\". On his return to the U.S., Brown brought sacks of letters, making sure they were delivered by the Post Office. He gave shows in all weather conditions, many in hospitals, sometimes doing his entire show for a single dying soldier. He signed autographs for everyone. For his services to morale, Brown became one of only two civilians to be awarded the Bronze Star during World War II.\n\nHis concern for the troops continued into the Korean War, as evidenced by a newsreel featuring his appeal for blood donations to aid the U.S. and UN troops there that was featured in the season 4 episode of \"M*A*S*H\" titled \"Deluge\".\n\nIn 1948, he was awarded a Special Tony Award for his work in the touring company of \"Harvey\".\n\nHe had a cameo appearance in \"Around the World in 80 Days\" (1956), as the Fort Kearney stationmaster talking to Fogg (David Niven) and his entourage in a small town in Nebraska. In the similarly epic film \"It's a Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World\" (1963), he had a cameo as a union official giving a speech at a construction site in the climactic scene. On television, he was the mystery guest on \"What's My Line?\" during the episode on January 11, 1953.\n\nHis best known postwar role was that of aging millionaire Osgood Fielding III in Billy Wilder's 1959 comedy \"Some Like It Hot\". Fielding falls for Daphne (Jerry), played by Jack Lemmon in drag; at the end of the film, Lemmon takes off his wig and reveals to Brown that he is a man, to which Brown responds \"Well, nobody's perfect\", one of the more celebrated punchlines in film.\n\nAnother of his notable postwar roles was that of Cap'n Andy Hawks in MGM's 1951 remake of \"Show Boat\", a role that he reprised onstage in the 1961 New York City Center revival of the musical and on tour. Brown performed several dance routines in the film, and famed choreographer Gower Champion appeared along with first wife Marge. Brown's final film appearance was in \"The Comedy of Terrors\" (1964).\n\nBrown was a sports enthusiast, both in film and personally. Some of his best films were the \"baseball trilogy\" which consisted of \"Fireman, Save My Child\" (1932), \"Elmer, the Great\" (1933) and \"Alibi Ike\" (1935). He was a television and radio broadcaster for the New York Yankees in 1953. His son Joe L. Brown became the general manager of the Pittsburgh Pirates for more than 20 years. Brown spent Ty Cobb's last days with him, discussing his life.\n\nBrown's sports enthusiasm also led to him becoming the first president of PONY Baseball and Softball (at the time named Pony League) when the organization was incorporated in 1953. He continued in the post until late 1964, when he retired. Later he traveled additional thousands of miles telling the story of PONY League, hoping to interest adults in organizing baseball programs for young people. He was a fan of thoroughbred horse racing, a regular at the racetracks in Del Mar and Santa Anita.\n\nHe was caricatured in the Disney cartoons \"Mickey's Gala Premiere\" (1933), \"Mother Goose Goes Hollywood\" (1938), and \"The Autograph Hound\" (1939); all contain a scene in which he is seen laughing so loud that his mouth opens extremely wide. According to the official biography \"Daws Butler: Characters Actor\", Daws Butler used Joe E. Brown as inspiration for the voices of two Hanna-Barbera cartoon characters: Lippy the Lion (1962) and Peter Potamus (19631966).\n\nBrown married Kathryn Francis McGraw in 1915. The marriage lasted until his death in 1973. The couple had four children: two sons, Don Evan Brown (December 25, 1916 October 8, 1942; Captain in the United States Army Air Force, who was killed in the crash of an A-20B Havoc bomber while serving as a ferry pilot) and Joe LeRoy \"Joe L.\" Brown (September 1, 1918 August 15, 2010), and two daughters, Mary Katherine Ann (b. 1930) and Kathryn Francis (b. 1934). Both daughters were adopted as infants.\n\nJoe L. Brown shared his father's love of baseball, serving as general manager of the Pittsburgh Pirates from 1955 to 1976, and briefly in 1985, also building the 1960 and 1971 World Series champions. Brown's '71 Pirates featured baseball's first all-black starting nine.\n\nBrown began having heart problems in 1968 after suffering a severe heart attack, and underwent cardiac surgery. He died from arteriosclerosis on July 6, 1973 at his home in Brentwood, California, three weeks before his 82nd birthday. He is interred at Forest Lawn Memorial Park in Glendale, California.\n\nFor his contributions to the film industry, Brown was inducted into the Hollywood Walk of Fame in 1960 with a motion pictures star located at 1680 Vine Street.\n\nIn 1961, Bowling Green State University renamed the theatre in which Brown appeared in \"Harvey\" in the 1950s as the Joe E. Brown Theatre. It was closed in 2011.\n\nHolgate, Ohio, his birthplace, has a street named Joe E. Brown Avenue. Toledo, Ohio has a city park named Joe E. Brown Park at 150 West Oakland Street.\n\nRose Naftalin's popular 1975 cookbook includes a cookie named the Joe E. Brown. Brown was a frequent customer of Naftalin's Toledo restaurant.\n\nFlatrock Brewing Company in Napoleon, Ohio offers several brown ales such as Joe E. Coffee And Vanilla Bean Brown Ale, Joe E. Brown Hazelnut, Chocolate Peanut Butter Joe E. Brown, Joe E Brown Chocolate Pumpkin, and Joe E. (Brown Ale).\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2165914", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165914", "title": "List of Dutch Americans", "text": "List of Dutch Americans\n\nThe first Dutch settlers arrived in America in 1624 and founded a number of villages, a town called New Amsterdam and the Colony of New Netherland on the East Coast. New Amsterdam became New York when the Treaty of Breda was signed in 1667. According to the 2006 United States Census, more than 5 million Americans claim total or partial Dutch heritage. Today the majority of the Dutch Americans live in the U.S. states of California, New York, Michigan, Iowa, Washington, Minnesota, Wisconsin, Montana, Ohio and Pennsylvania.\n\nThis is a list of notable Dutch Americans, including both original immigrants who obtained American citizenship and Americans of full or partial Dutch ancestry.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2165916", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165916", "title": "Groove-billed ani", "text": "Groove-billed ani\n\nThe groove-billed ani (\"Crotophaga sulcirostris\") is a tropical bird in the cuckoo family with a long tail and a large, curved beak. It is a resident species throughout most of its range, from southern Texas, central Mexico and The Bahamas, through Central America, to northern Colombia and Venezuela, and coastal Ecuador and Peru. It only retreats from the northern limits of its range in Texas and northern Mexico during winter.\n\nThe groove-billed ani is about long, and weighs . It is completely black, with a very long tail almost as long as its body. It has a huge bill with lengthwise grooves running the length of the upper mandible. It is very similar to the smooth-billed ani, some specimens of which have bills as small as the groove-billed and with grooves on the basal half. The two species are best distinguished by voice and range. In flight, the ani alternates between quick, choppy flaps and short glides.\n\nLike other anis, the groove-billed is found in open and partly open country, such as pastures, savanna, and orchards. It feeds largely on a mixed diet of insects, seeds, and fruits.\n\nThe groove-billed ani lives in small groups of one to five breeding pairs. They defend a single territory and lay their eggs in one communal nest. All group members incubate the eggs and care for the young.\nThe groove-billed ani is protected under the Migratory Bird Treaty Act of 1918.\n\n"}
{"id": "2165921", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165921", "title": "Roderick T. Long", "text": "Roderick T. Long\n\nRoderick Tracy Long (born February 4, 1964) is an American professor of philosophy at Auburn University and left-libertarian blogger. He also serves as an editor of the \"Journal of Ayn Rand Studies\", director and president of the Molinari Institute, and a Senior Fellow at the Center for a Stateless Society.\n\nLong received a B.A. in philosophy from Harvard University and his Ph.D. from Cornell University. He edited the book \"Anarchism/Minarchism: Is a Government Part of a Free Country?\". Long was an editor of the \"Journal of Libertarian Studies\" until it ceased publication, under his stewardship, in 2008.\n\nLong is a co-founder and member of the Alliance of the Libertarian Left, a left-libertarian organization that seeks to unite various left-libertarian groups including agorists, geolibertarians, green libertarians, left-Rothbardians, minarchists, mutualists and voluntaryists, among others.\n\nAccording to Long, he specializes in \"Greek philosophy; moral psychology; ethics; philosophy of social science; and political philosophy (with an emphasis on libertarian/anarchist theory).\" Long supports what he calls \"libertarian anarchy\", but avoids describing this as \"capitalism\", a term he believes has inconsistent and confusing meanings.\n\nHe is an advocate of \"build[ing] worker solidarity. On the one hand, this means formal organization, including unionization—but I'm not talking about the prevailing model of 'business unions' ... but \"real unions\", the old-fashioned kind, committed to the working class and not just union members, and interested in worker autonomy, not government patronage.\"\n\nLong identifies as a peace activist and points out that a \"consistent peace activist must be an anarchist.\" He describes market anarchism as \"a peaceful, consensual alternative\" to society with a state. Long has identified himself as a bleeding-heart libertarian and has contributed to the Bleeding Heart Libertarians weblog.\n\nIn addition to supporting privatizing the military, Long advocates a non-interventionist foreign policy.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2165927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165927", "title": "Depth of focus", "text": "Depth of focus\n\nDepth of focus is a lens optics concept that measures the tolerance of placement of the image plane (the film plane in a camera) in relation to the lens. In a camera, depth of focus indicates the tolerance of the film's displacement within the camera and is therefore sometimes referred to as \"lens-to-film tolerance\".\n\nThe phrase \"depth of focus\" is sometimes erroneously used to refer to the \"depth of field\" (DOF), which is the area in front of the lens in acceptable focus, whereas the true meaning of \"depth of focus\" refers to the zone behind the lens wherein the film plane or sensor is placed to produce an in-focus image.\n\n\"Depth of focus\" can have two slightly different meanings. The first is the distance over which the image plane can be displaced while a single object plane remains in acceptably sharp focus; the second is the image-side conjugate of depth of field. With the first meaning, the depth of focus is symmetrical about the image plane; with the second, the depth of focus is greater on the far side of the image plane, though in most cases the distances are approximately equal.\n\nWhere depth of field often can be measured in macroscopic units such as meters and feet, depth of focus is typically measured in microscopic units such as fractions of a millimeter or thousandths of an inch.\n\nThe same factors that determine depth of field also determine depth of focus, but these factors can have different effects than they have in depth of field. Both depth of field and depth of focus increase with smaller apertures. For distant subjects (beyond macro range), depth of focus is relatively insensitive to focal length and subject distance, for a fixed \"f\"-number. In the macro region, depth of focus increases with longer focal length or closer subject distance, while depth of field decreases.\n\nIn small-format cameras, the smaller circle of confusion limit yields a proportionately smaller depth of focus. In motion-picture cameras, different lens mount and camera gate combinations have exact flange focal distance measurements to which lenses are calibrated.\n\nThe choice to place gels or other filters behind the lens becomes a much more critical decision when dealing with smaller formats. Placement of items behind the lens will alter the optics pathway, shifting the focal plane. Therefore, often this insertion must be done in concert with stopping down the lens in order to compensate enough to make any shift negligible given a greater depth of focus. It is often advised in 35 mm motion-picture filmmaking not to use filters behind the lens if the lens is wider than 25 mm.\n\nIf the depth of focus relates to a single plane in object space, it can be calculated from\n\nwhere \"t\" is the total depth of focus, \"N\" is the lens \"f\"-number, \"c\" is the circle of confusion, \"v\" is the image distance, and \"f\" is the lens focal length. In most cases, the image distance (not to be confused with subject distance) is not easily determined; the depth of focus can also be given in terms of magnification \"m\":\n\nThe magnification depends on the focal length and the subject distance, and sometimes it can be difficult to estimate. When the magnification is small, the formula simplifies to\n\nThe simple formula is often used as a guideline, as it is much easier to calculate, and in many cases, the difference from the exact formula is insignificant. Moreover, the simple formula will always err on the conservative side (i.e., depth of focus will always be greater than calculated).\n\nFollowing historical convention, the circle of confusion is sometimes taken as the lens focal length divided by 1000 (with the result in same units as the focal length);\nthis formula makes most sense in the case of normal lens (as opposed to wide-angle or telephoto), where the focal length is a representation of the format size. This practice is now deprecated; it is more common to base the circle of confusion on the format size (for example, the diagonal divided by 1000 or 1500).\n\nIn astronomy, the depth of focus formula_4 is the amount of defocus that introduces a formula_5 wavefront error. It can be calculated as\n\n"}
{"id": "2165930", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165930", "title": "Cuyama, California", "text": "Cuyama, California\n\nCuyama (Chumash: Kuyam, \"To Rest, To Wait\" ) is a census-designated place in Santa Barbara County. California. It is located in the Cuyama Valley, near the Carrizo Plain. The Cuyama River runs adjacent to the town, flowing west towards the Pacific Ocean. Cuyama is surrounded by many apricot, peach, and plum orchards. The ZIP Code is 93254, and the community is inside area code 805. The population was 57 at the 2010 census. The name \"Cuyama\" comes from an Indian village named for the Chumash word \"kuyam\", meaning \"clam\" or \"freshwater mollusk\".\n\nCuyama is located on California State Route 166 2.5 miles (4 km) east of its much larger neighbor New Cuyama.\n\nSouth of the town is the Sierra Madre mountain range, most of which is included in the Los Padres National Forest. Considerable oil and gas development has taken place at the South Cuyama Oil Field in the foothills of the Sierra Madre, just south of Cuyama and adjacent New Cuyama. In July 2005, 52,000 acres (210 km) in Los Padres National Forest, mostly in the region immediately south of Cuyama, was opened up to further development by the National Forest Service.\n\nRancho Cuyama, which consisted of 22,200 acres, was granted to Jose Maria Rojo in 1843. In 1943 Richfield Oil Company started oil exploration in the area, followed by the Norris Oil company five years later. In 1952 Atlantic Richfield established New Cuyama four miles East of Cuyama to house its employees.\n\nAccording to the United States Census Bureau, the CDP covers an area of 0.5 square miles (1.2 km²), 99.04% of it land, and 0.96% of it water.\n\nThis region experiences hot and dry summers, with the warmest month having a daily mean of . According to the Köppen Climate Classification system, Cuyama has a warm-summer Mediterranean climate, abbreviated \"Csa\" on climate maps.\n\nThe 2010 United States Census reported that Cuyama had a population of 57. The population density was 124.5 people per square mile (48.1/km²). The racial makeup of Cuyama was 40 (70.2%) White, 0 (0.0%) African American, 2 (3.5%) Native American, 0 (0.0%) Asian, 0 (0.0%) Pacific Islander, 14 (24.6%) from other races, and 1 (1.8%) from two or more races. Hispanic or Latino of any race were 40 persons (70.2%).\n\nThe Census reported that 57 people (100% of the population) lived in households, 0 (0%) lived in non-institutionalized group quarters, and 0 (0%) were institutionalized.\n\nThere were 20 households, out of which 7 (35.0%) had children under the age of 18 living in them, 9 (45.0%) were opposite-sex married couples living together, 1 (5.0%) had a female householder with no husband present, 2 (10.0%) had a male householder with no wife present. There were 2 (10.0%) unmarried opposite-sex partnerships, and 0 (0%) same-sex married couples or partnerships. 6 households (30.0%) were made up of individuals and 2 (10.0%) had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The average household size was 2.85. There were 12 families (60.0% of all households); the average family size was 3.75.\n\nThe population was spread out with 14 people (24.6%) under the age of 18, 8 people (14.0%) aged 18 to 24, 13 people (22.8%) aged 25 to 44, 17 people (29.8%) aged 45 to 64, and 5 people (8.8%) who were 65 years of age or older. The median age was 34.2 years. For every 100 females, there were 137.5 males. For every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 152.9 males.\n\nThere were 30 housing units at an average density of 65.5 per square mile (25.3/km²), of which 10 (50.0%) were owner-occupied, and 10 (50.0%) were occupied by renters. The homeowner vacancy rate was 0%; the rental vacancy rate was 23.1%. 27 people (47.4% of the population) lived in owner-occupied housing units and 30 people (52.6%) lived in rental housing units.\n\n"}
{"id": "2165931", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165931", "title": "Jacksonville Lizard Kings", "text": "Jacksonville Lizard Kings\n\nJacksonville Lizard Kings were a professional ice hockey team based in Jacksonville, Florida. Formerly known as the Louisville Icehawks, they played in the East Coast Hockey League (ECHL) from 1995–2000. They played their home games in the Jacksonville Coliseum.\n\nThe Lizard Kings began play in the East Coast Hockey League as the Louisville Icehawks, based in Louisville, Kentucky. They played in Louisville from 1990 until 1994, but suspended operations after the 1993–94 season, and the organization decided to relocate to Jacksonville, Florida.\n\nThe team, now rebranded as the Jacksonville Lizard Kings, promoted themselves in their new city with a substantial marketing campaign, including television ads featuring a goalie catching a puck with a lizard tongue. They faced some competition from another local hockey team, the Jacksonville Bullets, but were able to secure a lease to the Jacksonville Coliseum, and became Jacksonville's only professional hockey team when the Bullets folded in 1996. Despite their advertising the Lizard Kings were not able to cover their operating costs, and lost $2.2 million over four years. The management determined they would not be viable in the aging Jacksonville Coliseum, and decided to suspend operations in 2000 in anticipation of the construction of the new Jacksonville Veterans Memorial Arena. They never returned; in 2002 a new team, the Jacksonville Barracudas, began play in the Coliseum and secured a contract for the new Arena, completed in 2003.\n\nThe Lizard King General managers were Jeff Brubaker, Larry Lane, and Shawn Hegan. The head coaches were Jeff Brubaker, Mike LaZazzera (1996), Bruce Cassidy (1997–98), Brian Curran (1998–99), and Alain Lemieux (1999–2000). Past players over the years included New York Ranger great, Ron Duguay, Brad Federenko, Andy MacIntyre, Sean Halifax, Eric Cloutier, Kurt Mallett, Rick Bennett, Tobias Ablad, Jason Clark, Mike Hall, Doug Evans, David Cunniff, Ronald Ozolinsh, Tim Chase, James Mooney, Nando Roberts, Steve Vezina, Marc Yakabuski, Marc Salsman, Craig Lutes, Patrick Clement, Ross Earl, Shane Doyle, Mick Kempffer, Joe Bonvie, Jason Smith, Johan Slirg, Stan Dovan, Brian Massa, and Dan Carney.\n"}
{"id": "2165936", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165936", "title": "Jeffrey Tucker", "text": "Jeffrey Tucker\n\nJeffrey Albert Tucker (; born December 19, 1963) is an American economics writer of the Austrian School, an advocate of anarcho-capitalism and Bitcoin, a publisher of libertarian books, a conference speaker, and an internet entrepreneur.\n\nAs of 2018, he is Editorial Director of the American Institute for Economic Research and Chief Liberty Officer (CLO) of Liberty.me. Tucker is also an adjunct scholar with the Mackinac Center for Public Policy, a research affiliate of RMIT University's Blockchain Innovation Hub, and an Acton Institute associate.\n\nA son of the Texas historian Albert Briggs Tucker and Roberta Janeice (Robertson) Tucker, Jeffrey Albert Tucker was born in Fresno, California in 1963.\n\nHe studied economics as an undergraduate at Texas Tech University and Howard Payne University, where he first encountered the literature of the Austrian School. He later enrolled as a graduate student in economics at George Mason University.\n\nWhile studying at George Mason, Tucker attended a journalism program in Washington, D.C., where he became a volunteer at the Washington office of the Ludwig von Mises Institute.\n\nIn the late 1980s, he went to work for Ron Paul, as an assistant to editor Lew Rockwell, who produced political and investment newsletters on behalf of the former congressman. In 2008, during Paul's campaign for President, those newsletters became the topic of a controversy about racially charged comments some of them contained.\n\nFrom 1997 to 2011 Tucker worked for the Mises Institute, of which Rockwell was a co-founder, as editorial vice president and editor for the institute's website, Mises.org. From 1999 to 2011 he also contributed scholarly efforts and humorous essays to LewRockwell.com.\n\nIn late 2011 he was hired by Addison Wiggin as publisher and executive editor of Laissez Faire Books, and worked in that capacity until 2016. As of 2017, he remains a contributor to LFB.\n\nTucker was appointed a Distinguished Fellow of the Foundation for Economic Education in 2013, speaking at FEE's seminars and writing for its publication \"The Freeman\". From 2015 to 2017, he was FEE's Director of Content.\n\nTucker became Editorial Director of the American Institute for Economic Research in late 2017.\n\nIn 2013, Tucker began writing about the information-based cryptocurrency Bitcoin. He has been interviewed on the subject by \"Reason\", \n\"Forbes\",\nFox Business Channel,\nand RT. Tucker's 2015 book \"Bit by Bit\" is devoted to Bitcoin and other products of the \"information economy\". In 2018 he became a research affiliate of the Blockchain Innovation Hub, a study center at RMIT University.\n\nTucker has appeared as a speaker at numerous conferences on Austrian school economics, and libertarianism,\nincluding FreedomFest conferences, events of the Free State Project, and the 2016 and 2018 Libertarian Party national convention.\n\nIn 2013, Tucker founded and became the CEO (under the title \"Chief Liberty Officer\") of Liberty.me, a \"social network and online publishing platform for the liberty minded\", which launched a successful Indiegogo fundraising campaign in 2013 and began operation in 2014.\n\nTucker has referred to war as an \"alluring illusion\" and has been critical of American interventionist foreign policy.\n\nIn an interview for \"California Sunday\", Tucker described his \"vision of freedom\" by recalling a view over São Paulo by night: \"As far as my eyes could see, there were lights and buildings and civilization burgeoning — an awesome amount of human knowledge, energy, innovation, creative capacity right in front of me. I began to turn, and it was true over here, and over there, and in every single direction, and I thought, \"That’s it! This world will never be governed. It cannot be governed.\" It was beautiful.\"\n\nFormerly a Southern Baptist, Tucker is a convert to traditionalist Catholicism and was managing editor of the Church Music Association of America journal \"Sacred Music\" from 2006 to 2014. From 2013 to 2015, he edited CMAA's website \"New Liturgical Movement\".\n\n\nFour of Tucker's books have been published in Spanish translations, including the following:\n\nHe has written for, among others, \"Journal of Libertarian Studies\", \"The Wall Street Journal\", \"The Journal of Commerce\", \"National Review\", \"The Freeman\", \"Catholic World Report\", \"Crisis\", \"Sacred Music\", \"Newsweek\", and \"Chronicles\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2165945", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165945", "title": "California State Route 142", "text": "California State Route 142\n\nState Route 142 (SR 142), also known as Carbon Canyon Road for most of its length, is a state highway in the U.S. state of California that connects Brea in Orange County with Chino Hills in San Bernardino County. The eastern portion of the route is known as Chino Hills Parkway.\n\nRunning from State Route 90, Imperial Highway, in Brea to State Route 71 in Chino Hills, SR 142 is a popular shortcut from the business centers of Brea and surrounding Orange County to the Inland Empire. The road has multiple tight curves, so travel is not recommended for long vehicles, such as big rigs.\n\nSR 142 begins in the city of Brea as Valencia Avenue at a junction with SR 90. The road heads northeast to an intersection with Carbon Canyon Road, which assumes the designation of SR 142 and continues east through Carbon Canyon Regional Park. SR 142 continues into the community of Olinda before crossing into the Sleepy Hollow area of the city of Chino Hills in San Bernardino County.\n\nSR 142 continues northeast through Chino Hills to an intersection, where it continues eastbound on Chino Hills Parkway. The highway ends at an interchange with SR 71 on the border of Chino Hills and Chino, near the California Institution for Men, a state prison.\n\nSR 142 is part of the California Freeway and Expressway System, and is part of the National Highway System, a network of highways that are considered essential to the country's economy, defense, and mobility by the Federal Highway Administration. SR 142 is eligible to be included in the State Scenic Highway System, but it is not officially designated as a scenic highway by the California Department of Transportation.\n\nIn 1933, a road from Brea to Chino was added to the state highway system. It was designated as Route 177 in 1935. In the 1964 state highway renumbering, this became part of SR 142. A routing from Chino to Upland was added to the state highway system as Route 274 in 1959, and was added to SR 142 in the 1964 renumbering from SR 71 to SR 30 (later SR 210), but no highway has been built along that route.\n\nThe road was referenced in the 1953 film War of the Worlds as the location that Recoilless 75s were positioned to defend the local townsfolk from the alien invasion. \n\n"}
{"id": "2165946", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165946", "title": "Regina &quot;Queen&quot; Saraiva", "text": "Regina &quot;Queen&quot; Saraiva\n\nRegina Aparecida \"Queen\" Saraiva (born September 1, 1968, Sorocaba, São Paulo, Brazil), also known as Regina, Queen Regina, or Jean Jane, is a Brazilian-born eurodance vocalist, dancer and actress who scored several hits across Europe from 1997 to 2003. She lives in Milan, Italy, where she is a part of the gospel choir that is featured on Piero Chiambretti’s program \"Markette\" which broadcasts by La7 as well as performing new material. She was also a member of the Brazilian dance act Forbidden Fruit from 1989 to 1995. \"Day by Day\" was her only big hit in the United States, peaking at #11 on Billboard Magazine's Hot Dance Music/Club Play chart in 1997.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2165948", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165948", "title": "Bob Cowper", "text": "Bob Cowper\n\nRobert Maskew Cowper (born 5 October 1940) is a former cricketer who played Test cricket for Australia from 1964 to 1968, and Sheffield Shield cricket for Victoria and Western Australia from 1960 to 1970.\n\nBob Cowper was the son of Dave Cowper, who captained the Australia national rugby union team in the 1930s. Bob was educated at Scotch College, Melbourne, and began playing for Hawthorn-East Melbourne in 1958. Two years later he was in the Victorian side.\n\nA tall, correct left-handed batsmen, Cowper scored heavily for Victoria in the 1962–63 and 1963-64 seasons and was selected to tour England in 1964. He was successful in the county matches but not in his first Test at Headingley. He took part in Australia's next tour, to the West Indies in 1964-65, when he \"displayed courage, a cool temperament and fine technique in dealing with the hostile pace of Hall and Griffith\". He was Australia's leading run-scorer in the Test series, with 417 runs at an average of 52.12, including centuries in the Second and Fourth Tests.\n\nHe was dropped in the 1965-66 Ashes series for slow scoring. When he was recalled for the Fifth Test at Melbourne he made the first Test triple-century in Australia: 307 from 589 balls in 727 minutes. Matthew Hayden's 380 against Zimbabwe in 2002–03 is now the highest Test century in Australia, but Cowper's remains the longest.\n\nAfter his triple-century he was never omitted from the Test side until a hand injury forced him out of the Fifth Test in 1968. In the last 13 matches of his Test career (the 1966–67, 1967–68, and 1968 series) he scored 931 runs at 38.79 and took 31 wickets at 25.22. In those 13 matches no other Australian player exceeded 800 runs, and only Graham McKenzie, with 49, took more wickets. Cowper was only 27 when he played his last Test, at Headingley in 1968, almost exactly four years after his first, at Headingley in 1964.\n\nHe captained Victoria to victory in the Sheffield Shield in 1969-70, then left cricket altogether to concentrate on his business career.\n\nRemarkably, he averaged an impressive 75.78 in home Tests but only 33.33 overseas. The difference of 42.45 is a Test record.\n\nSince retiring from playing, Cowper has had a successful career in big business, and has also served as a cricket referee. In 1977 he joined the administrative board of World Series Cricket. In the 1980s he moved to Monaco.\n\nHe was awarded life membership of Cricket Victoria in 2018.\n\n"}
{"id": "2165951", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165951", "title": "Banks of the Ohio", "text": "Banks of the Ohio\n\n\"Banks of the Ohio\", also known as \"Down on the Banks of the Ohio\", is a 19th-century murder ballad, written by unknown authors, in which \"Willie\" invites his young lover for a walk during which she rejects his marriage proposal. Once they are alone on the river bank, he murders the young woman.\n\nThe song is superficially similar to other murder ballads in the idiom such as \"Omie Wise\" and more especially \"Pretty Polly\", which is also generally narrated in the first person by a killer called Willie. However, it differs significantly in the narrative; the killer explains why he killed his love, and spends much of the song expressing his sorrow and regret. Musically, it is distinguished by a long refrain which calmly reflects the love and the hopes for the future which he felt before the murder. This gives a different psychological tone to the song, and accompanying singers (or indeed the audience) the possibility of singing along in chorus.\n\nAnother, less-well-known version of the song is entitled \"On the Banks of the Old Pedee\".\n\nThe lyrics are sometimes adapted for a female singer.\n\nCommercial country music recordings started in 1927 with versions by Red Patterson's Piedmont Log Rollers (as \"Down By The Banks Of The Ohio\") and by Grayson and Whitter (as \"I'll Never Be Yours\"). Other early country music stars who recorded the song included Ernest Stoneman (1928), The Callahan Brothers (1934), The Blue Sky Boys (1936), Clayton McMichen (1931) and The Monroe Brothers (1936). The Blue Sky Boys version appears in the soundtrack of the 1973 film \"Paper Moon\".\n\nThe song was recorded for the American folk music revival market by Bascom Lamar Lunsford (1953) and by the traditional singer Ruby Vass on a 1959 field recording made by Alan Lomax and issued on the LP (and subsequent CD) series \"Southern Journey\". It was recorded several times by Joan Baez: in 1959 as the opening track for the album \"Folksingers 'Round Harvard Square\"; in 1961 in her album \"Joan Baez, Vol. 2\"; on the 1968 Newport Folk Festival album; and other recordings. It was included on the 2011 CD compilation \"Voice of the People\".\n\nAlan Lomax made a further field recording in 1961 at his New York City apartment, featuring veteran singer Clarence Ashley, accompanied by Fred Price (fiddle), and Clint Howard and Doc Watson (guitars). The recording, filmed by George Pickow and with sound by Jean Ritchie, was later used by Anna Lomax Wood for the short film \"Ballads, Blues and Bluegrass\". Another recording by this group was issued on \"Old Time Music at Clarence Ashley's\" reissued as (1994). Also for Folkways, Doc Watson performed the song as a duet with Bill Monroe in 1963.\n\nOther folk revival artist who recorded the song included the New Lost City Ramblers and Pete Seeger. Artists who returned the song to country music audiences included Johnny Cash with The Carter Family and Porter Wagoner. Other recording were made by The Wolfe Tones, Arlo Guthrie (as \"Arloff Boguslavaki,\" on the 1972 Earl Scruggs album \"I Saw the Light\"), Dave Guard and the Whiskeyhill Singers, Mike Ireland and Holler, Gangstagrass featuring Alexa Dirks also giving a faithful rendition on their 2014 album \"Broken Hearts and Stolen Money\". Dolly Parton recorded the song in 2013, for her album Blue Smoke (album).\n\nOlivia Newton-John recorded an arrangement of the song by John Farrar and Bruce Welch in 1971, for her album \"If Not for You\". It was released as the second single from the album and was successful in the UK, peaking at number six. It was her first number one hit in Australia and reached number nine in South Africa but failed to reach the top forty in Canada and the US, peaking at number sixty-six and ninety-four, respectively. The distinctive basso backing vocals were provided by English musician and vocal session arranger Mike Sammes.\nTony Rice recorded the song on his eponymous 1977 album. \nA Swedish version, recorded by Ann-Louise Hanson, is entitled \"Tag emot en utsträckt hand\".\n\nThe song appears, and gives the title for, the 2013 album \"Oh, Willie, Please...\" a collection of folk murder ballads, by alt-folk musical project Vandaveer. The band made a live 78 acetate recording in 2011.\n\nA Czech version, entitled \"Náklaďák\", was recorded by Petra Černocká, as a single in 1975 and was later recorded as the title track for her 1994 album.\n\nThe song and its title served as the theme song for, and title of, a long-running radio series broadcast of bluegrass music on WAMU-PBS and Bluegrass Country, hosted by Fred Bartenstein and produced for the International Bluegrass Music Museum, near the Ohio River in Owensboro, Kentucky.\n\nMichigan bluegrass singer Missy Armstrong has recorded a play on this song entitled \"Ain't Going Down to the River,\" in which the female singer recognized that in too many songs, girls get killed at the banks of too many rivers.<ref>\n"}
{"id": "2165955", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165955", "title": "Max Cady", "text": "Max Cady\n\nMax Cady is a fictional character and the primary antagonist of the John D. MacDonald novel \"The Executioners\". He was portrayed by Robert Mitchum in \"Cape Fear\" and Robert De Niro in Martin Scorsese's remake.\n\nIn both film versions of MacDonald's novel, Cady is a criminal with an obsessive grudge against an attorney named Sam Bowden (played by Gregory Peck in the first film and by Nick Nolte in the remake) who sent him to prison for rape. While in prison, Cady teaches himself to read as he nurtures his hatred of Bowden, made especially intense when his wife divorces him and takes their child. Upon his release, he terrorizes Bowden and his family, stalking his wife at their house and attempting to seduce Bowden's teenaged daughter. After Bowden's failed attempts to get rid of Cady with bribery and a restraining order, he hires street thugs to rough Cady up, which only succeeds in making him angrier and more determined to make sure Bowden \"learns all about loss\". Cady tracks the family to its summer home in the titular North Carolina beach town of Cape Fear and nearly kills them all. In the climax of the first film, Bowden puts Cady under citizen's arrest; in the second, Cady apparently drowns after a fight with Bowden.\n\nSignificant differences are seen between the way in which Cady is portrayed in the original film and the remake. Mitchum's characterization is that of a sleazy, degenerate con artist, while De Niro's is of a homicidal sociopath, who viciously attacks everything and everyone Bowden holds dear (he even beats, mutilates and rapes Bowden's mistress). The remake also sheds some light on Cady's background, revealing he grew up in a rural Pentecostal family who handled snakes and drank strychnine to achieve religious ecstasy.\n\nAlso, many differences occur in the films' portrayals of Cady and Bowden's relationship. In the first film, Bowden merely testified against Cady in court. In the remake, Bowden was Cady's attorney who deliberately suppressed evidence which may have lightened Cady's sentence or granted him an acquittal. Most notably, Cady's fate differs in the two films. In the 1962 version, Bowden manages to grab his revolver and shoot Cady in the leg during a fight between the two men. Rather than finish him off, Bowden spares Cady so he will be forced to spend the rest of his life in jail.\nIn the remake, Bowden is able to handcuff Cady's ankle to a railing in the houseboat before it hits submerged rocks and begins to break apart. The two exchange blows with rocks, and Bowden savagely attempts to bring a large rock down on Cady's head. Before he can do so, though, Cady is washed out into the river, still cuffed to part of the houseboat, madly crying out and speaking in tongues, and Bowden then watches as Cady is pulled to the bottom of the river and drowns.\n\nIn the novel by John D. MacDonald, Sam Bowden testified against Max Cady back in World War II, since he witnessed the latter raping a fourteen-year-old girl when he was stationed in Australia. Cady was sentenced to life at a hard labor prison camp but was released thirteen years later. Cady nurtured his grudge against Bowden during his time which exacerbated due to his wife divorcing him and his only son dying in an accident. Unlike the films, Cady refers to Bowden as \"lieutenant\" instead of \"counselor\".\n\nCady's background differs from the films in that he hails from West Virginia and has three brothers, all of whom were criminals (with one killed during a prison riot). They are not religious zealots like in the 1991 film. However, in the book, Cady is very much a violent psychopath who has no remorse for anything he does which includes, among many other despicable acts, shooting one of Bowden's children with a rifle. He is determined to kill Bowden \"six times\".\n\nCady's fate in the book is being shot by Bowden as he flees from their home after attacking Bowden's wife. In the wee hours of the morning during a police search, his body is found in the woods behind the Bowden home. He died of excessive blood loss from two of Bowden's shots.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2165956", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165956", "title": "Phillip Noyce", "text": "Phillip Noyce\n\nPhillip Noyce (born 29 April 1950) is an Australian director, producer, and screenwriter of film and television. Since 1977, he has directed over 19 feature films in various genres, including historical drama (\"Newsfront\", \"Rabbit-Proof Fence, The Quiet American\"), thrillers (\"Dead Calm, Sliver, The Bone Collector\"), and action films (\"Blind Fury, The Saint, Salt\"). He has also directed the Jack Ryan adaptations \"Patriot Games\" (1992) and \"Clear and Present Danger\" (1994) and the 2014 adaptation of Lois Lowry's \"The Giver\".\n\nHe has worked with such actors as Harrison Ford, Denzel Washington, Michael Caine, Angelina Jolie, Nicole Kidman, Meryl Streep, Rutger Hauer and others. He has also directed, written, and executive-produced television programmes in both Australia and North America, including \"The Cowra Breakout, Vietnam, Revenge, Roots,\" and most-recently Netflix's \"What/If.\"\n\nNoyce's work has won him several accolades, including AACTA Awards for Best Film, Best Director, and a special Longford Lyell lifetime achievement award.\n\nNoyce was born in Griffith, New South Wales, attended high school at Barker College, Sydney, and began making short films at the age of 18. A poster for a screening of “underground” films had captured his imagination and the 16 US and Australian experimental films ignited something else. Four months later he shot his first short film, the 15 minute \"Better to Reign in Hell\" financed by selling roles to his friends.\n\nIn 1969, Noyce became the manager of the Sydney Filmmakers Co-op, a collective of filmmakers. With Jan Chapman, he ran the Filmmaker's Cinema for three years atop a socialist bookshop in Sydney, screening the short films of the directors who would go on to form the Australian New Wave: Gillian Armstrong, Peter Weir, Bruce Beresford, George Miller, Paul Cox. These were a generation of boomers who had grown up rarely seeing an Australian film, as British and American interests controlled distribution and exhibition Australia wide.\n\nAfter graduating from Sydney University, he joined the Australian Film, Television and Radio School in 1973, and released his first professional film in 1975. Many of his films feature espionage, as Noyce grew up listening to his father's stories of serving with the Australian Commando unit Z Force during World War II.\n\nAfter his debut feature, the medium-length \"Backroads\" (1977), Noyce achieved huge commercial and critical success with \"Newsfront\" (1978), which won Australian Film Institute (AFI) awards for Best Film, Director, Actor, Screenplay, and opened the London Film Festival and was the first Australian film to play at the New York Film Festival.\n\nNoyce worked on two miniseries for Australian television with fellow Australian filmmaker George Miller: \"The Dismissal\" (1983) and \"The Cowra Breakout\" (1984). Miller also produced the film that brought Noyce to the attention of Hollywood studios – \"Dead Calm\" (1988) which launched the career of Nicole Kidman.\n\nMoving with his young family to the United States in 1991, Noyce directed five films over the following eight years, of which \"Clear and Present Danger\", starring Harrison Ford, was the most successful, critically and commercially, grossing $216 million. After 1999's \"Bone Collector\" starring Angelina Jolie and Denzel Washington, Noyce decided to return to his native Australia for Stolen Generations saga\" Rabbit-Proof Fence\", which won the AFI Award for Best Film in 2002. He has described \"Rabbit-Proof Fence\" as \"easily\" his proudest moment as a director: \"Showing that film to various Aboriginal communities around the country and seeing their response, because it gave validity to the experiences of the stolen generations.\" Although independently financed, the film was a huge hit with Australian audiences and sold worldwide.\n\nNoyce was also lauded for \"The Quiet American\", the 2002 adaptation of Graham Greene's novel, which gave Michael Caine an Academy Award Best Actor nomination and earned best director awards from London Film Critics' Circle and National Board of Review in the US. After the Apartheid-set \"Catch a Fire\" (2006) in South Africa, Noyce decided to make another big budget studio film with 2010's \"Salt\" starring Angelina Jolie, which proved to be his biggest commercial hit to date, making nearly $300 million worldwide.\n\nIn 2011, Noyce directed and executive produced the pilot for the ABC series \"Revenge\" and has since directed numerous TV pilots, including Netflix's What/If starring Renée Zellweger which was released on Netflix in May 2019 and the ongoing FOX Network hit The Resident, now in its 3rd season.\n\nNoyce's most recent film is \"Above Suspicion\", starring Emilia Clarke and Jack Huston, originally to be released in America on May 22, 2020 by Roadside Attractions, but now delayed until February 2021 due to the Coronavirus Pandemic.\n\nPhillip Noyce's next film will be \"Rats of Tobruk\" adapted from his father's diary of the epic World War II Siege of Tobruk in Libya.\n\nNoyce has been married three times. He was married to film producer Jan Chapman from 1971 to 1977. From 1979 to 2004, he was married to producer Jan Sharp, with whom he has two children. He is now married to designer Vuyo Dyasi, with whom he has two children: a son, Luvuyo and a daughter, Ayanda.\n\nNoyce was an avid supporter of the Labor government of Gough Whitlam.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2165959", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165959", "title": "Osher Günsberg", "text": "Osher Günsberg\n\nOsher Günsberg (born Andrew Günsberg), widely recognised by his former stage name Andrew G, is a British-born Australian television and radio presenter and journalist who is best known as the host of the reality TV series \"The Bachelor Australia\", \"The Bachelorette Australia\" and \"Bachelor in Paradise Australia\". He is also the narrator of the factual TV series \"Bondi Rescue\" as well as the host of the music talent show \"The Masked Singer Australia\".\n\nHe is also known for his hosting roles on Channel [V], \"Australian Idol\", \"Live to Dance\" on CBS and radio shows including \"Take 40 Australia\" and \"The Hot Hits\". Günsberg also narrated the factual television program \"Recruits\". He was a regular contributor to \"The Project\".\n\nGünsberg was born in London, to a Czech-Jewish father and a Lithuanian mother. At four months of age, he moved to Adelaide and then to Brisbane, where he spent most of his youth and attended St Joseph's College, Gregory Terrace. and Our Lady of the Rosary School\n\nOsher was active in the Brisbane band scene between 1994 and 1997, playing electric bass in Feeble's Junky and double bass in Resin Dogs.\n\nAt 20, Günsberg started working as a \"Black Thunder\" driver and did on-air midnight-to-dawn shifts for B105 radio station in Brisbane, during which time he bore the nickname \"Spidey\". He filled in for late-night announcing shifts, before taking on the role of the regular midnight-dawn announcer. In 1998, he left B105FM to join SAFM for the afternoon shift. In 1998, at the age of 24, he adopted the stage name of \"Andrew G\" while doing the afternoon shift at SAFM after his program director said, \"Günsberg? Adelaide? Nahh, Andrew G!\", thus becoming the first person to ever call him by this name and ensuring some confusion amongst audiences between Günsberg and his new namesake, Australian former rugby league footballer for the Brisbane Broncos, Andrew Gee. In 2009, he decided to drop his abbreviated stage name and revert to his full surname.\n\nFrom 2004 to 2009, he formally hosted the Australian radio chart countdown programme \"Take 40 Australia\", which airs on nearly 100 stations nationwide. For a month in September 2009, he filled in for breakfast radio presenter Kyle Sandilands on 2Day FM's \"The Kyle and Jackie O Show\" along with Dannii Minogue and Brian McFadden.\nGünsberg finished with \"Take40 Australia\" on 29 November 2009.\n\nIn December 2009, he launched a re-formatted version of The Hot Hits, bringing the show live every week around Australia from Los Angeles. The show was re-named \"The Hot Hits Live from LA\". In July 2010, after only six months on air, the show was nominated for an Australian Commercial Radio Award in the category of \"Best Syndicated Program\".\n\nIn November 2015, Southern Cross Austereo announced that Günsberg would join HIT 105's breakfast show with Abby Coleman and Stav Davidson. He also hosted Summer Breakfast across the Hit Network with former \"The Bachelor Australia\" contestant Heather Maltman.\n\nIn 2013, Günsberg began releasing \"The Osher Günsberg Podcast\", a weekly interview show where he openly discusses and shares his own mental health journey, while having conversations with high profile guests. In 2019, the show's name changed to \"Better Than Yesterday\" to reflect the way that the podcast had developed from a straight interview conversation in the early years to a deeper exploration of how his guests overcome life's challenges. \"Better Than Yesterday\" is now released on a Monday and Friday in Australia.\n\nIn 2019, Osher started a second weekly podcast with Charlie Clausen called \"DadPod\". As the two men both became fathers to babies within a month of each other, the show follows their learnings as they \"forge a new understanding of what it is to be a modern father and how they helped their partners have the best birth possible.\"\n\nFor seven years, Günsberg worked mainly in live broadcasting hosting the flagship request show, \"By Demand\" (later \"whatUwant\") and various late night shows (including \"The Joint\"). \n\nIn 2006, it was announced that Günsberg would be leaving Channel [V].\n\nGünsberg has appeared on \"Studio 10\", \"The Project\", \"All Star Family Feud\", \"Thank God You're Here\", \"Celebrity Joker Poker\", \"Good News Week\", \"Ready Steady Cook\", \"Celebrity Name Game\" and \"Chris & Julia's Sunday Night Takeaway\".\n\nIn 2003, Günsberg became co-host (with Channel [V] co-star James Mathison) of \"Australian Idol\" on Network Ten. For this role, Günsberg was nominated for the Silver Logie in 2004. After Mathison announced that he was moving on to other projects, Günsberg hosted the seventh season of \"Australian Idol\" solo in 2009. He was also the compere of Network Ten's game show \"The Con Test\".\n\nHe appeared on a celebrity episode of the Australian version of \"Ready Steady Cook\" in October 2005. As a committed vegan, his recipe ideas were not extremely well received by the audience. According to Günsberg, the audience's response when he revealed tofu on the menu, was \"similar to the look you see on peoples faces when they view two dogs rooting on the side of the road — puzzled, curious, but all together uncomfortable.\"\n\nHe was one of the co-hosts of the televised Australia Day Eve celebrations on 25 January 2006. In October 2006, he was a contestant on the Australian comedy TV Show, \"Thank God You're Here\", and played in \"Celebrity Joker Poker\", winning $10,000 for charity. In 2007, he hosted \"The Con Test\". In February 2007, he appeared as himself on the soap opera \"Neighbours\". From 2007–09, he co-hosted the Sydney New Year's Eve telecast alongside Kim Watkins and Fuzzy. He also served as a creative consultant on the production. \n\nGünsberg also narrated the Network 10 / Cordell-Jigsaw productions, \"Bondi Rescue\" and the second season of \"Recruits\". He was a contestant in Season 2 Episode 34 of \"Good News Week\" that aired on Channel 10 on 14 September 2009. He has been an occasional guest host for Charlie Pickering and was a regular contributor to \"The Project\". Since 2013, he has been the host of the reality television series \"The Bachelor Australia\". Since 2015, he has been the host of the reality television series \"The Bachelorette Australia\".\n\nIn 2017, Günsberg made a cameo appearance as himself on episode 4 of \"Offspring\". Günsberg assumed his role as \"The Bachelor Australia\" host on \"Offspring\" and popped up in a kitchen scene with Nina (played by Asher Keddie). He offered Nina some friendly advice as she hosted a dinner party with her boyfriend Harry (played by Alexander England) and his ex-girlfriend Georgie (played by Emily Barclay).\n\nSince 2018, he has been the host of the reality television series \"Bachelor in Paradise Australia\". \n\nIn July 2019, it was announced that he will be the host of the music talent show \"The Masked Singer Australia\".\n\nIn October 2010, CBS announced that Günsberg would be the host of the Paula Abdul dance competition \"Live to Dance\". The show made its debut in January 2011 on CBS. It was announced that \"Live to Dance\" would not return for a second season.\n\nIn 2012, Günsberg co-hosted the photographic competition show \"Photo Finish\".\n\nIn 2017, he made a cameo appearance as himself in the first episode of \"War on Waste\".\n\nGünsberg holds dual British and Australian nationality.\n\nHe has eaten a plant-based diet since 2002.\n\nIn 2008, he married Israeli actress and producer Noa Tishby. On 27 December 2011, he announced on Twitter that his marriage to Tishby was over.\n\nIn September 2010, Günsberg exhibited a year of daily photographic self portraits (June 2009 – June 2010) at Mart Gallery in Surry Hills, Sydney, with part of the proceeds going to Lifeline.\n\nAt the age of 38, he decided to change his name to 'Osher' – Hebrew for 'happiness' – in order to signal his changed outlook and attitude toward life. He claims that 'something about being Osher just feels right'. He is an avid cyclist. In October 2016, following criticism for attending Derby Day during the Melbourne Spring Racing Carnival, Günsberg stated \"I say that I’m vegan because it's the quickest way to get the explanation across but the truth is I've never really called myself vegan\".\n\nIn December 2016, Günsberg married freelance makeup artist Audrey Griffen, becoming a stepfather to her daughter, in the Hunter Valley. The couple met while Osher was filming season two of \"The Bachelor Australia\" as Griffen was the makeup artist. \n\nIn August 2017, he revealed he had been suffering from depression for many years including social anxiety disorder and obsessive compulsive disorder.\n\nHis memoir, \"Back, After the Break\", was published by HarperCollins in August 2018, and has been open about his battles with psychosis, alcoholism and suicidal ideation.\n\n"}
{"id": "2165962", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165962", "title": "The Big Over Easy", "text": "The Big Over Easy\n\nThe Big Over Easy is a novel written by Jasper Fforde and published in 2005. It features Detective Inspector Jack Spratt and his assistant, Sergeant Mary Mary.\n\nIt is set in an alternate reality similar to that of his previous books: \"The Eyre Affair\", \"Lost in a Good Book\", \"The Well of Lost Plots\" and \"Something Rotten\".\n\nAccording to Fforde, \"The Big Over Easy\" is the result of the book \"Caversham Heights\" featured in \"The Well of Lost Plots\" and includes a possible cameo appearance of the author's heroine Thursday Next, thus verifying this claim.\n\nThe book was the first novel Fforde wrote, however, he failed in its publication. It was massively re-written following the success of the Thursday Next novels. A follow-up, entitled \"The Fourth Bear\", was published in July 2006.\n\nThe book is satirical, based on many nursery rhymes, fables, and the like. The main character Jack Spratt is based on Jack Sprat, and the secondary character is Mary Mary, both from nursery rhymes. They investigate events such as the Three Little Pigs and Humpty Dumpty. People from such sources are known in the book as PDRs, \"persons of dubious reality\".\n\nThe book begins a short time after Easter, and no one can remember the last sunny day. Mary Mary, a detective sergeant from Basingstoke, is being transferred to Reading, Berkshire. She hopes to be paired up with Detective Chief Inspector Friedland Chymes, a member of the Detective's Guild with multiple appearances in the fictional magazine \"Amazing Crime Stories\", but instead is paired up with Jack Spratt at the Nursery Crime Department, who is most famous for giant killing and for arresting the serial wife killer Bluebeard. Jack himself is living with his second wife, Madeleine, who moonlights as a photographer for certain prestigious events, and their five children: Pandora, Ben, Stevie, Jerome, and Megan. Madeleine is trying to rent the spare room in the house, but without much success. Jack's first wife could only eat fat and soon died.\n\nThe day after Mary is transferred, Humpty Dumpty is discovered dead outside of his residence at Grimm's Road, apparently having fallen off the wall. Jack's Superintendent, Briggs, introduces him to Mary Mary at the crime scene. Jack interviews some possible witnesses, including Wee Willie Winkie, the insomniac neighbor; Ms. Hubbard, the owner of the boarding house where Humpty stayed; and Prometheus, the titan from Greek mythology, the latter of which Jack offers to rent the spare room in his house to. They all describe Humpty as a nice egg, who generally kept to himself. Upon inspection of Humpty's room, Jack and Mary find some odd clues: several shares in Spongg Footcare, Reading's Footcare empire, a picture of Humpty with a girlfriend in Vienna, and a 28-foot-long strand of hair. They later interview Laura, Humpty Dumpty's ex-wife. When Jack returns home, he tells his mother that the painting of the cow his mother wanted to sell was fake and he only received some beans in return. Mrs. Spratt retorts that she had the painting valued years ago and that the auctioneer probably knows how incredibly valuable it is. She is so upset that she throws the beans out of the window, and Jack sees them bury into the ground by themselves.\n\nThere is another interview at a hospital called Saint Cerebellum's, this time with mad scientist doctor Quatt, and on their way to meeting her Jack notices the serial killer the 'Gingerbread Man'. Jack had been chasing the killer in previous cases and had to witness his colleague having his arms ripped off, only for the local newspaper, the Gadfly, to say that Chymes had caught the 'Gingerbread Man'. The interview with Dr. Quatt only reveals that she was Humpty's doctor. The conversation ends with Quatt showing Jack and Mary her latest experiment, a kitten's head sewn onto the body of a haddock.\n\nA few days later, Jack and Mary team up with Superintendent Baker, Ashley (an alien who can only speak binary code) and forensic scientist Gretel Kandlestyck-Maeker. Humpty Dumpty's wife is found to have committed suicide at the biscuit factory, but it is suspected that she has been murdered. The woman had jumped into a chocolate vat and was sliced by the machines, but when the employees stopped the machine, it was too late. The police of the Nursery Crime Division find a suicide note, but Mary concludes that it was written by his wife by comparing it to her diary. The proof of suicide also comes from a witnessing employee who saw her jump in, and no one pushed her.\n\nA few days later, the team are called in to investigate the recent death of Wee Willie Winkie. He was attacked with a large weapon, supposedly a broadsword, and a fifty-pound note was found in his hand, showing he was blackmailing the killer. Jack has his own problems at home when his mother calls him to sell a painting of a cow.\n\nJack next interviews Randolph Spongg. Humpty had been investing in their failing businesses in hope of a breakthrough, which never came. The interview take place in Spongg's strange house, where doors lead nowhere, some rooms revolve around and go-kart races inside the house itself are held commonly every year. They next interview Lola Vavoom, who lives in the room next to Humpty Dumpty in the block of flats. At the end of the conversation she tells them that Humpty's shower had been running for a whole year, before his death. The two men break the door, and Baker finds a skeleton in the shower.\n\nThe man is identified as Tom Thomm, son of a local flautist. His skin has been washed away by the shower water, and his skeleton is badly damaged. There are also five bullet holes in the shower curtain, three at waist height and two at foot height. Gretel says that when Tom was shot in the waist, he fell on the floor, where the two other shots hit his head. Jack then realises that Tom's killer was Humpty's wife: the three waist-height shots would have been head height for Humpty. His wife killed herself as she was sorry for what she had done.\n\nJack is interviewed by colleagues, and Friedland Chymes appears and warns Spratt that if he does not give the case to Chymes, he will be fired. Jack accepts that that may happen, and refuses to give the case away. Later on, they have a meeting with another industrialist, Solomon Grundy, whose wife is Rapunzel. When she takes off her hat and her hair falls to the ground, Spratt and Mary remember the 28-foot-long strand of hair found in Humpty's bedroom. Solomon shows them into a room with an abnormally large amount of security: a person going in has to wear no shoes in case of being detected. In the centre of the room is a puzzle piece, the sacred gonga, held in unbreakable glass. It has magic powers which he reveals to Jack and Mary by putting them on each side of the room. When Jack thinks of a number, Mary says it out loud. This was so amazing that Solomon decided to put it on display for everyone in Reading.\n\nWhen an inspector is put in charge of watching Spratt and the others, Humpty's car, a Ford Zephyr, is found. As the car is about to be taken away, Jack realises that the front headlight has been removed and there is a wire feeding through it. He orders everyone to run away and the car explodes. Spratt and Mary then interview a woman who was divorced from Humpty. The woman claims that she killed Humpty out of jealousy by putting three poisonous tablets in his coffee. Jack then tells her that Humpty was shot, not poisoned, and that she is therefore innocent.\n\nWhen Jack returns home, he notices a huge crowd of people around the house. His mother says that the beans that were thrown from the window had grown into a huge stalk. She has even made arrangements for the magical celebrity, the Jellyman, to see it when he arrives in Reading. Jack is told by Gretel that Humpty Dumpty was shot by someone from behind, which smashed through his shell and burst the albumen, sending a shock which cracked the whole egg.\n\nWhen Mary, Spratt and the inspector enter Humpty's house, they wonder how Humpty got his money: he had no proper job and all he did was invest in failing companies. Their question is answered when they discover on the sofa a goose that lays golden eggs. On a further inspection, a giant verruca is found on another sofa. Jack then remembers a strange doctor, Horatio Carbuncle, who always made living things like the verruca. He killed Humpty Dumpty because he was investing in a company which got rid of verrucas. Humpty's wife killed herself because she thought that she had killed him, and Wee Willie Winkie was killed because he was blackmailing him. Jack is not sure about Tom, but thought the evidence is good enough. Mary then calls him into the next room and shows him the body of Carbuncle, shot dead.\n\nJack then remembers the verruca and the puzzle piece. If Randolph was the killer, he would have the best motive so that he could put the verruca under the floor of Solomon's room. Hundreds of people would come in bare-footed to see the puzzle piece, and the verruca would give off a gas which would infect all the people's feet with verrucas. They would turn to the only foot care product, made by Randolph Spongg, and the failing company would make thousands.\n\nJack is told that the man who shot Humpty was employed by Solomon Grundy, but Jack knows that Solomon is not the killer and sets off to find the real one, Randolph Spongg. Arriving at the house, the butler asks him to remove his mobile. The room becomes strange and starts to revolve. Jack enters a normal room with a mirror next, but he cannot see himself in the reflection. He sees Randolph and Lola come out of a trapdoor, and turns round, but sees no one. Randolph explains that this is his magic. Lola says that she is happy that Humpty is dead in the Ford Zephyr and reveals that she loves Randolph. Behind the two, the butler comes out of the trapdoor, but to Jack's surprise the butler is behind him. Jack is confused as he is standing in front of a mirror and cannot see his reflection, but that of Randolph and Lola, and the butler is the only one with a reflection. Randolph puts a sandwich with tin foil inside on a table and shines a lamp on it. He explains that the sandwich will crumple up under the heat, and when the corners of the tin foil touch, the house will explode. When they leave, Jack realises that it is not a mirror at all, but glass. He breaks it and finds a room on the other side, made exactly backwards. The butler had a twin brother who appeared on the other side, looking like he had a reflection. Jack stops the bomb, but the killers escape in a plane. After talking to Mary, he thinks that the car bomb was not intended for them, but for Humpty. He gets this idea because Lola said that Humpty died in the Zephyr, so was hoping he would be killed in it.\n\nMoments later, Jack is informed by Gretel that Humpty survived the shot, and that instead, he hatched, because Dr. Quatt secretly fecundated him in vitro. The team are thrown into confusion as they try to find a giant chicken which they think Humpty hatched into. Spratt and Mary then return to his house to attend the arrival of 'his eminence' the Jellyman. When he looks at the stalk, Jack has an urge to climb it. The only people in the house are a few police officers, Spratt, Mary, the Jellyman, Madeleine and their children. The few police officers stationed outside the house are alerted, and one by one, a strange creature kills them all. The monster bursts into the house in an attempt to kill the Jellyman. Jack leads him outside and climbs the stalk, followed by the beast. When they are high up in the sky, the monster rips Jack off and he falls all the way through the garden shed. When Jack regains consciousness, he sees a chainsaw. He is reminded of the axe and takes it and begins hacking down the beanstalk, aiming for the beast to fall down. It jumps onto him and tries to kill him, but a voice behind it makes it stop. Dr. Quatt appears in front of Jack and tells him that she is the killer, whose aim was to kill the Jellyman all along. She is about to kill Jack, but Mary knocks her unconscious. The monster runs to her aid, picking her up and running away. Mary tries to kill them, but Jack tells her not to bother. The beanstalk topples over from when Jack tried to cut it down, crushing the monster and Dr. Quatt.\n\nThe end of the book is the explanation. Scientists take away the goose that lays golden eggs and cut it open to find out what makes it lay these eggs, but are disappointed to find only find a normal goose's insides. Jack explains to Mary that Humpty, although a good egg, had many friends and many enemies. His previous wife thought she killed him by poison, his wife thought she killed him by shooting him in the shower, Solomon Grundy thought he killed him by hiring a man to shoot him, Randolph Spongg and Lola Vavoom thought they killed him with a car bomb. But the real killer was Dr. Quatt, who injected him with the monster when he was having his appointments with her. Humpty's wife killed herself because she thought she killed him. Wee Willie Winkie saw Humpty hatch and knew it was her and blackmailed her. She made the monster follow her, and when she met him, the beast killed him with its claw. Her plan was to kill the Jellyman and used Humpty as a host to create the monster. She only wanted to kill one person, but a lot of others were the victim of her powerful, and short wrath.\n\n\n\nReviewing the book for UK Sunday newspaper \"The Observer\", Peter Guttridge began by writing, \"I'm not sure what it says about the mystery genre that pretty much the only unflawed, untroubled, morally unambiguous policeman around is a nursery rhyme character\". He added, \"Now humour is notoriously subjective […]. And, indeed, when Fforde wrote the first version of this novel in 1994 - he called it \"Who Killed Humpty Dumpty?\" - it was rejected by every publisher he sent it to. But I love it. \"The Big Over Easy\" is great not just because it's very funny (albeit with some excruciating puns) but also because it works properly as a whodunit. Although I was wrong to say Spratt is untroubled. As a conflation of three nursery rhyme Jacks, he has several 'issues' to deal with, including the need for a fat-free diet and a strong compulsion to kill giants.\" Guttridge concluded his review saying simply, \"Comic genius\".\n\nReviewing the audiobook edition, read by Simon Prebble, \"Publishers Weekly\" found that, \"Despite its many virtues, this is probably Fforde's weakest novel, lacking the literary sophistication of the Thursday Next books. But Prebble's performance easily makes this Fforde's best audiobook to date\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2165964", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165964", "title": "Alexander Monro", "text": "Alexander Monro\n\nAlexander Monro may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2165971", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165971", "title": "9 Beet Stretch", "text": "9 Beet Stretch\n\n9 Beet Stretch, by Scandinavian sound artist Leif Inge, is a piece of idea-based sound art made of Beethoven's Ninth Symphony. The source recording, a Naxos recording conducted by Béla Drahos with the Nicolaus Esterházy Sinfonia and Chorus (Naxos 8.553478), was stretched digitally to a duration of 24 hours with no distortion or pitch shifting. The work is presented as a 24-hour-long sound installation/electroacoustic concert.\n\nThe initial realization of 9 Beet Stretch was done in 2002 at NOTAM (Norwegian network for Technology, Acoustics and Music) by Anders Vinjar, Kjetil Matheussen, Leif Inge, and Bjarne Kvinnesland. It was redone at NOTAM in 2004 by Leif Inge and Anders Vinjar, and the concert premiere took place from April 16 to 17, 2004, at Kupfer Ironworks, Madison, Wisconsin, under the production of Jeff Hunt of Table of the Elements. Among the venues it has been presented in include Wien Modern 06, Vienna; BizArt Art Center, Shanghai; Diapason Gallery, New York; The University of Alberta, Ultima International Festival of Contemporary Music, Oslo, 964 Natoma, San Francisco, and Concertgebouw Brugge, Bruges.\n\nIt is available online in a number of audio formats, including a 24-hours-a-day, 7-days-a-week web cast.\n\nOn 3 November 2009, Raudio.nl launched an iPhone App with the 9 Beet Stretch as the opening track.\n\nIn response to Inge's creation, sound artist Ezra LaFleur created \"2 Mall Stretch\": a digitally stretched recording of Gustav Mahler's Second Symphony.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2165977", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165977", "title": "Shipra River", "text": "Shipra River\n\nThe Shipra, also known as the Kshipra, is a river in Madhya Pradesh state of central India. The river rises in the North of Dhar district, and flows north across the Malwa Plateau to join the Chambal River at the MP-Rajasthan boundary in Mandsaur district. It is one of the sacred rivers in Hinduism. The holy city of Ujjain is situated on its east bank. Every 12 years, the Sinhastha fair (Kumbh Mela) takes place on the city's elaborate riverside ghats, as do yearly celebrations of the river goddess Kshipra. There are hundreds of Hindu shrines along the banks of the river Shipra.\n\nShipra is a perennial river. Earlier there used to be plenty of water in the river. Now the river stops flowing a couple of months after the monsoon.\n\nWith this reference, the word Shipra is used as a symbol of \"purity\" (of soul, emotions, body, etc.) or \"chastity\" or \"clarity\".\n\nLegend has it that once Shiva went begging for alms, using the skull of Lord Brahma as the begging bowl. Nowhere in the three worlds did he manage to get any alms. Ultimately, he went to Vaikunth, or the abode of Lord Vishnu, and asked Lord Vishnu for alms. In return, Lord Vishnu showed Lord Shiva his index finger, which enraged the latter. Lord Shiva took out his trishul, or trident, and cut Lord Vishnu's fingers. The Preserver's fingers began to bleed profusely, and the blood accumulated in Brahma's skull and soon overflowed from it. The flow became a stream and finally a river – the Shipra.\n\nThe Puranas, or ancient Hindu texts, also suggest that the Shipra originated from the heart of Varaha, Lord Vishnu's incarnation as a boar.\n\nAlso on the banks of the Shipra is Sage Sandipani’s ashram or hermitage where the blue god, Krishna, Lord Vishnu's eighth incarnation, had studied.\n\nNarmada Shipra Sihastha Link Pariyojana, Mundla Dosdar - a project linking Shipra river to River Narmada was commenced in 2012 and completed in 2015 successfully. The project lifts water from the Narmada river using electricity, and then transports it to the source of Kshipra river through pipes. The link project is the first phase of Rs 8000-crore Narmada-Malwa Link project. Under the project, Narmada would be connected to Kshipra, Gambhir, Kalisindh and Parwati rivers.\n\n"}
{"id": "2165979", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165979", "title": "Abdulrahman Ibrahim Ibn Sori", "text": "Abdulrahman Ibrahim Ibn Sori\n\nAbdul-Rahman ibn Ibrahima Sori () (1762–1829) was an African-American nobleman and Amir (commander or governor) who was captured in the Fouta Jallon region of Guinea, West Africa and sold to slave traders in the United States in 1788. Upon discovering his noble lineage, his slave master Thomas Foster, began referring to him as \"Prince\", a title he kept until his final days. After spending 40 years in slavery, he was freed in 1828 by order of U.S. President John Quincy Adams and Secretary of State Henry Clay after the Sultan of Morocco requested his release.\n\nAbdul-Rahman ibn Ibrahim Sori was a Torodbe Muslim ruler (Emir) born in 1762 in the city of Timbo, now located in Guinea. His father, Almami Ibrahim Sori consolidated the Islamic confederation of Futa Jallon in 1776, with Timbo as its capital, where Abdul Rahman lived and studied. \"He was learned in the Islamic sciences and could speak at least 4 different African languages, in addition to Arabic and English, and in 1781, after returning from study in the renowned city of learning-Timbuktu, Abd'r-Rahman joined the armies of his father.\" At age 26, he was made an Emir of one of the regiments that conquered the lands of the Bambara and in 1788 his father \"made him the head of a 2000 men army whose mission was to protect the coast and strengthen their economic interest in the region. It was during this military campaign that Abd'r-Rahman was captured and enslaved.\" He was sold to the British who brought him to Natchez, Mississippi where he labored on the cotton plantation of Thomas Foster for more than thirty-eight years before gaining his freedom. In 1794 he married Isabella, another slave of Foster's, and eventually fathered a large family: five sons and four daughters.\n\nBy using his knowledge of growing cotton in Futa Jallon, Abdul-Rahman rose to a position of authority on the plantation and became the \"de facto\" foreman. This granted him the opportunity to grow his own vegetable garden and sell at the local market. During this time, he met an old acquaintance, Dr. John Cox, an Irish surgeon who had served on an English ship, and had become the first white man to reach Timbo after being abandoned by his ship and then falling ill. Cox stayed ashore for six months and was taken in by Abdul-Rahman's family, where he was tasked to teach Abdul-Rahman English. Cox appealed to Foster to sell his \"Prince\" so he could return to Africa. However, Foster would not budge, since he viewed Abdul-Rahman as indispensable to the Foster farm. Dr. Cox continued, until his death in 1816, to seek Ibrahim's freedom, to no avail. After Cox died, his son continued the cause to free Abdul-Rahman.\n\nIn 1826, Abdul-Rahman wrote a letter to his relatives in Africa. A local newspaperman, Andrew Marschalk, who was Dutch, sent the letter to United States Senator Thomas Reed from Mississippi, who was in town at the time, and Reed forwarded it to the U.S. Consulate in Morocco. Since Abdul-Rahman wrote in Arabic, Marschalk and the U.S. government assumed that he was a Moor. After the Sultan of Morocco Abderrahmane read the letter, he asked President Adams and Secretary of State Henry Clay to release Abdul-Rahman. In 1829, Thomas Foster agreed to the release of Abdul-Rahman, without payment, with the stipulation that he return to Africa and not live as a free man in America.\n\nBefore leaving the US, Abdul-Rahman and his wife went to various states and Washington, D.C. where he met with President Adams in person. He solicited donations, through the press, personal appearances, the American Colonization Society and politicians, to free his family back in Mississippi. Word got back to Foster, who considered this a breach of the agreement. Abdul-Rahman's actions and freedom were also used against President John Quincy Adams by future president Andrew Jackson during the presidential election.\n\nAfter ten months, Abdul-Rahman and Isabella had raised only half the funds to free their children, and instead left for Monrovia, Liberia, without their children. He lived for four months before contracting a fever and died at the age of 67. He never saw Fouta Djallon or his children again.\n\nThe funds that Abdul-Rahman and Isabella raised only bought the freedom of two sons and their families. They were reunited with Isabella in Monrovia. Thomas Foster died the same year as Abdul-Rahman. Foster's estate, including Abdul-Rahman's other children and grandchildren, was divided among Foster's heirs and scattered across Mississippi and the South. Abdul-Rahman's descendants still reside in Monrovia and in Natchez Mississippi United States. In 2006, Abdul-Rahman's descendants gathered for a family reunion at Foster's Field.\n\nAbdul-Rahman (Prince Sori), wrote two autobiographies. A drawing of him is displayed in the Library of Congress, a roadmap which one can say was left for his descendants to follow as they reconnect to the Royal lineages.\n\nAmong Henry Clay's documents, for the year 1829 we find the January 1 entry, \"Prince Ibrahima, an Islamic prince sold into slavery 15 years ago, and freed with the stipulation that he return (in this case the word \"return\" makes sense) to Africa, joined the black citizens of Philadelphia as an honored guest in their New Year's Day parade, up Lombard and Walnut, and down Chestnut and Spruce streets.\n\nPrince Sori's legacy stretches from Natchez Mississippi to Monrovia Liberia and with the advancements of Deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA), his descendants have been able to connect with each other such as; his Great-Grandchildren Six generation(s), Dr. Artemus Gaye of Monrovia & Karen Chatman of Natchez Mississippi.\n\nIn 1977, history professor Terry Alford documented the life of Abdul-Rahman in his book \"Prince Among Slaves\", the first full account of his life. In \"Prince Among Slaves\", Alford writes:\n\nIn 2007, Andrea Kalin directed \"Prince Among Slaves\", a film portraying the life of Abdul-Rahman, narrated by Mos Def.\n\nIn 2018 Dr. Artemus Gaye of Monrovia Liberia released Rooted Beyond Boundaries, a book which details factual accounts of his (6) generation Grandfather life while as a slave and as a freed man; these accounts have never been shared or told as they have by his own family.\nDr. Gaye and Karen Chatman of Natchez, Mississippi, descendants of Abdul-Rahman: uses the Royal titles which were inherited from Prince Sori and to promote charitable organizations such as the Obama Foundation and the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation in their personal quest to combat humanitarian issues. Chatman, a United States born citizen, founded the Prince Karen Foundation of Global and Ancestry Developmemt, Global Paths Foundation, an organization that encourages unity amongst children ages fourteen to eighteen by working with school officials and corporate partners to bring awareness of common cultural and racial bonds and Think Pink International. Chatman is the author of \"Chained Free.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2165981", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165981", "title": "Nagda", "text": "Nagda\n\nNagda is an industrial town and became the district in 2020 in the Indian state of Madhya Pradesh. It \nis the administrative headquarters of Nagda town. It lies in the Malwa region of western Madhya Pradesh and is situated on the bank of Chambal River. Nagda has a website that goes by www.mynagda.com \n\nPresently, Nagda is a major industrial town with a manufacturing unit of Viscose Fibre, a Thermal Power Plant and a Chemical Plant. Nagda is a major ISO granted Railway Junction on the Delhi–Mumbai railway line. It is exactly 694 km from both Delhi and Mumbai. It is not to be confused with Nagda, Rajasthan, a village famous for its ruined temples.\n\nPrior to being an industrial town. The location near river Chambal and availability of acres of land, plus the added advantage of being at the centre of India's two biggest markets(Delhi & Mumbai) attracted Shri Ghanshyam Das Birla to set up a major facility. Today Grasim's industrial unit at Nagda is the largest manufacturer of Viscose staple fibre in Asia and of coloured fibre in the world.\n\nThe name of the town was actually \"nag-dah\" which means cremation/burning (\"dah\") of snakes (\"nag\"). The ancient city was developed by King Janamejaya. Janamejaya was a Hindu Kuru Dynasty. Nagda was mentioned in the literature of Kalidasa.\n\nAs per provisional reports of 2011 India census, population of Nagda in 2011 is 100,039; of which male and female are 51,373 and 48,666 respectively.\n\nThe number of literates in Nagda are 71,472, out of which 40,073 are male and 31,399 are female. Nagda has an average literacy rate of 80.71%, above than the national average of 74.04%: male literacy is 88.43%, and female literacy is 72.62%. In Nagda, 11.48% of the population is under 5 to 6 years of age.\nAccording to 2011 census data, Hinduism is majority religion in Nagda city with 81.68% followers. Islam is second most popular religion in city of Nagda with approximately 14.58% following it. In Nagda city, Christianity is followed by 0.81%, Jainism by 2.09%, Sikhism by 0.53% and Buddhism by 0.53%. Around 0.00% stated 'Other Religion' and approximately 0.29% stated 'No Particular Religion'.\n\nThe culture of Nagda encompasses both the traditional Malwa culture and a modern, progressive attitude. People celebrate typical Indian festivals like Diwali, Dussehra, Navratri, Holi, Eid al-Fitr, Eid al-Adha, Mahavir Jayanti, Hanuman Jayanti, Ram Navmi, Sharad Purnima, Janmashtami and Christmas. Apart from these festivals, city celebrates \"Dhol Gyaras\" (a dol or dhol is a musical instrument like drum and gyaras means Ekadasi, a date in Hindu calendar), a one night event in which mobile temples, called झान्की (jhanki) in the local language, run in the city. The same celebration is witnessed three days later on Anant Chaturdashi at many nearby places like Ujjain and Indore and also in Birlagram, Nagda. The set of the pehalwans from different Akhara show their bravery in the front of these mobile temples. Various man-made craft items are displayed in shops specially built for this night. Dhol artists play their drums in continuous rhythms. The festival culminates in a carnival-like procession.\n\nNagda is well known for Atal Park located at housing board colony, Nagda junction. It has swimming pool, play zones and green zones. Birla House garden located at Ponds colony, Nagda junction. Its a huge garden accesible to only residents of birla gram colony. Nayan dam is also located in Nagda junction and is well known for its scenic beauty. Shivratri fair is also held in nagda. People from nearby villages comes to Nagda to have fun with the friends and family. Birla temple is located in Nagda junction. This hindu temple is built by birla family. Its well known for its architecture in all over the world. It is a Vishnu mandir which has beautifully carved image of Gods and Goddess on the columns, walls, roof and beams. \n\nHinduism is the dominant religion in Nagda with 81.68% followers as of 2011, followed by Islam with 14.58%, Christianity with 0.81%, Sikhism with 0.53%, Buddhism with 0.53% and Jainism with 2.09%. Many temples & Masjids, Catholic church, Protestant Church, Guru Dwaras, Ayyappa Temple and other religious buildings are found throughout the city. The most prominent communities include Rajpoot, Gurjar, Brahmin, Marwaris, Viswakarma, Marwari Jains, Porwals and Chouhans along with the local communities. The most prominent Hindu temple in Nagda is Birla Mandir with its characteristic artwork carved beautifully on walls and pillars surrounded by a garden and fountain, dedicated to Lord Vishnu which was built by the Birla family.\n\nNagda has a variety of foods and cuisines. City starts its day with tea, poha, jalebi, samosa and kachodi. The Ratlami Sev is a common snack often served with a meal and dinner. Dal baati is the food of the Malwa. It is commonly served at all festivities, including religious occasions, wedding ceremonies, and parties. \"Dal-Baati \", is a combination of two different food items - Dal (lentils), Baati. It is a typical Malwa dish. Dal is made of lentils and can be little spicy. Baati baked or a grilled ball of wheat flour dough. \n\nYash Public Senior Secondary School (YPSSS), founded in 1997, is a K-12 co-educational CBSE school located in Nagda.\n\nFatima Convent Higher Secondary School (FCHSS) located at Nagda Ujjain. The School has been recognized by Council for Indian School Certificate Examinations since a long time.\n\nThe Aditya Birla Public School, Nagda was established as Grasim Vidya Mandir on 13 July 1970, under the aegis of Grasim Industries Ltd. The school was set up by Mr. GhanshyamDasji Birla to fulfill the need of quality education for the children of Grasim employees and the surrounding locality. The school is located at Nagda, (Ujjain district, M.P.) on the Delhi – Mumbai Train route.\n\nAditya Birla Higher Secondary School [formerly known as Grasim Vidyalaya] is the Heritage School. It was established in 1953. Initially, the school was started in a small building with 58 students and 6 teachers. Today it has grown into a huge campus with strength of 2265 students and 87 teachers. The school is equipped with all the facilities of teaching and learning. Aditya Birla Higher Secondary School is affiliated to the Board of Secondary Education M.P.Bhopal. The school is committed to the noble cause of education with utmost devotion and sincerity. It has set high standards of education. The school has an unprecedented record of merit holders in the Board examination. For its excellent results, Aditya Birla Higher Secondary School is accredited as one of the best schools of the state.\n\nAgoshdeep International Public school was established on 12 January 2005. It was permanently closed.\n\nMost colleges in Nagda are affiliated to the Vikram University. The city's most prominent college is Nagda Government College near Rupeta village. Other colleges are Shesh Shai college and Vardhaman college.\n\nCurrently there is no public transport like AICTSL OR BRTS. Auto rickshaws are available for small distance travel. \n\nNagda is situated on the basin of river Chambal. \nIt is an important junction station of Western Railways, which connect Delhi-Mumbai main line with Bhopal. It is an important halt for all trains that are bound for Jaipur, Mumbai, Delhi & Bhopal.\nThe main lines passing through Nagda Junction are :\n• Mumbai- New Delhi line via Kota Junction ( broad gauge line).\n\nDevi Ahilya Bai Holkar International Airport, The nearest airport is located in Indore about 110 km from the city.\n\nNagda has connectivity with NH79 via Jaora. \n\nNagda has Nagar Palika Parishad , which runs by 36 wards members and 1 city mayer. City has ample funds fot development which has brought lot of changes in the city. \n\nCurrently Mr. Dilip Gurjar is the elected Member of Legislative Assembly for term 2018 to 2023, representing the NIC. \n\nThe city is also represented by Mr. Thawar Chand Gehlod, a cabinate minister in Modi’s Government. \n"}
{"id": "2165986", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165986", "title": "Kali Sindh River", "text": "Kali Sindh River\n\nThe Kali Sindh, is a river in Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan in northern India. It is a tributary of the Chambal River in the Ganges Basin. The main tributaries of the Kali Sindh are the Parwan, Niwaj and Ahu rivers. The Kali Sindh River drains a major portion of the Malwa region, and is the biggest river flowing in the Malwa region of Madhya Pradesh. \n\nThe Kali Sindh is a perennial stream in the Chambal drainage of the Yamuna Basin of the greater Ganges Basin. It typically reaches flood stage during the monsoon season of India. In its lower reaches it forms an alluvial plain. Bauxite deposits are found along the Kali Sindh in Kota district at Baselio, Majola, and Sherol-khera.\n\nThe total length of the Kali Sindh river is 550 kilometers, of which 405 kilometers are in Madhya Pradesh and 145 kilometers in Rajasthan.\n\nThe Kali Sindh rises in the Vindhya Range near Bagli in Dewas district of Madhya Pradesh.\n\nIt crosses State Highway No 18 east of Indore near Sonkatch and blocks the road traffic for hours when in flood. It crosses Shajapur district. Then it makes the boundary between Shajapur and Rajgarh districts near Soyatkalan and enters Rajasthan near Binda village. It passes through Baran, Jhalawar and Kota districts of Rajasthan and joins the Chambal River at Nonera village in Kota district. The Kali Sindh is fed by the Ahu, Niwaj and Parwan Rivers. \n\nThe main tributaries of the Kali Sindh River are: \n\n\n"}
{"id": "2165987", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165987", "title": "Parbati River (Madhya Pradesh)", "text": "Parbati River (Madhya Pradesh)\n\nParbati River is a river in Madhya Pradesh, India that flows into the Chambal River. The river rises at a height of 610 m in the Vindhya range in Sehore district madhya pradeshRajasthan and runs for 471 km. It is one of the Chambal River's three main tributaries, along with the Banas River and the Kali Sindh River. Ramgarh crater is located on its eastern bank.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2165988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165988", "title": "Urania, Vienna", "text": "Urania, Vienna\n\nUrania is a public educational institute and observatory in Vienna, Austria.\n\nIt was built according to the plans of Art Nouveau style architect Max Fabiani (a student of Otto Wagner) at the outlet of the Wien River and was opened in 1910 by Franz Joseph I of Austria as an educational facility with a public observatory. It was named after the Muse \"Urania\" who represents Astronomy.\n\nDuring World War II, the Urania was severely damaged and the dome with the observatory was totally destroyed. After its reconstruction, it was reopened in 1957. The observatory itself has been continually improved technically over the years.\n\nPresently the Urania also has seminar rooms in which wide-ranging classes and lectures are given, a movie theater that screens at the annual Viennale movie festival and a puppet theater created originally by actor Hans Kraus. It also hosts a restaurant.\n\n"}
{"id": "2165989", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165989", "title": "Shrikhand", "text": "Shrikhand\n\nShrikhand is an Indian sweet dish made of strained dahi (yogurt).\n\nShrikhand has been referred to as \"Shikhrini\" in the Sanskrit literature. According to Jashbhai B. Prajappati and Baboo M. Nair, it originated in ancient Indian state Maharashtra, around 400 B.C.E.\n\n"}
