{"id": "2234277", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234277", "title": "Demand management", "text": "Demand management\n\nDemand management is a planning methodology used to forecast, plan for and manage the demand for products and services. This can be at macro-levels as in economics and at micro-levels within individual organizations. For example, at macro-levels, a government may influence interest rates in order to regulate financial demand. At the micro-level, a cellular service provider may provide free night and weekend use in order to reduce demand during peak hours.\n\nDemand management has a defined set of processes, capabilities and recommended behaviors for companies that produce goods and services. Consumer electronics and goods companies often lead in the application of demand management practices to their demand chains; demand management outcomes are a reflection of policies and programs to influence demand as well as competition and options available to users and consumers. Effective demand management follows the concept of a \"closed loop\" where feedback from the results of the demand plans is fed back into the planning process to improve the predictability of outcomes. Many practices reflect elements of systems dynamics. Volatility is being recognized as significant an issue as the focus on variance of demand to plans and forecasts.\n\nIn macroeconomics, \"demand management\" it is the art or science of controlling aggregate demand to avoid a recession.\n\nDemand management at the macroeconomic level involves the use of discretionary policy and is inspired by Keynesian economics, though today elements of it are part of the economic mainstream. The underlying idea is for the government to use tools like interest rates, taxation, and public expenditure to change key economic decisions like consumption, investment, the balance of trade, and public sector borrowing resulting in an 'evening out' of the business cycle. Demand management was widely adopted in the 1950s to 1970s, and was for a time successful. However, it did not prevent the stagflation of the 1970s, which is considered to have been precipitated by the supply shock caused by the 1973 oil crisis.\n\nTheoretical criticisms of demand management are that it relies on a long-run Phillips Curve for which there is no evidence, and that it produces dynamic inconsistency and can therefore be non-credible.\n\nToday, most governments relatively limit interventions in demand management to tackling short-term crises, and rely on policies like independent central banks and fiscal policy rules to prevent long-run economic disruption.\n\nIn natural resources management and environmental policy more generally, demand management refers to policies to control consumer demand for environmentally sensitive or harmful goods such as water and energy. Within manufacturing firms the term is used to describe the activities of demand forecasting, planning, and order fulfillment. In the environmental context demand management is increasingly taken seriously to reduce the economy's throughput of scarce resources for which market pricing does not reflect true costs. Examples include metering of municipal water, and carbon taxes on gasoline.\n\nDemand management in economics focuses on the optimal allocation resources to affect social welfare.\n\nWelfare economics uses the perspective and techniques of microeconomics, but they can be aggregated to make macroeconomic conclusions. Because different \"optimal\" states may exist in an economy in terms of the allocation of resources, welfare economics seeks the state that will create the highest overall level of social welfare.\n\nSome people object to the idea of wealth redistribution because it flies in the face of pure capitalist ideals, but economists suggest that greater states of overall social good might be achieved by redistributing incomes in the economy.\n\nBecause welfare economics follows the techniques of microeconomics, where demand planning is part of the process especially the redistribution of the funds through government taxes, fees and royalties to programs for societal good, such as roads, services, income support and agriculture support programs.\n\nDemand management is both a stand-alone process and one that is integrated into sales and operations planning (S&OP) or integrated business planning (IBP). \n\nDemand management in its most effective form has a broad definition well beyond just developing a \"forecast\" based on history supplemented by \"market\" or customer intelligence, and often left to the supply chain organization to interpret. Philip Kotler notes two key points: 1. Demand management is the responsibility of the marketing organization (in his definition sales is subset of marketing); 2. The demand \"forecast\" is the result of planned marketing efforts. Those planned efforts, not only should focus on stimulating demand, more importantly influencing demand so that a business's objectives are achieved.\n\nThe components of effective demand management, identified by George Palmatier and Colleen Crum, are: 1. planning demand; 2. communicating demand; 3. influencing demand and 4. prioritizing demand.\n\nDemand control is a principle of the overarching demand management process found in most manufacturing businesses. Demand control focuses on alignment of supply and demand when there is a sudden, unexpected shift in the demand plan. The shifts can occur when near-term demand becomes greater than supply, or when actual orders are less than the established demand plan. The result can lead to reactive decisions, which can have a negative impact of workloads, costs, and customer satisfaction.\n\nDemand control creates synchronization across the sales, demand planning, and supply planning functions. Unlike typical monthly demand or supply planning reviews, demand control reviews occur at more frequent intervals (daily or weekly), which allows the organization to respond quickly and proactively to possible demand or supply imbalances.\n\nThe demand control process requires that all functions agree on time fences within the planning horizon, which should be no less than a rolling 24 months based on integrated business planning best practices. A time fence is a decision point within a manufacturer's planning horizon. Typically, three established time fences exist within a company:\n\nA demand controller is established when a company implements a demand control process. Unlike a demand planner who focuses on long-term order management, the demand controller is responsible for short-term order management, focusing specifically when demand exceeds supply or demand appears to be less than planned, and engages sales management in both situations. The demand controller works across multiple functions involved in the supply and demand processes, including demand planning, supply planning, sales, and marketing.\n\nPlanning demand involves a full multiple-view process or work flow; including statistical forecast as a baseline from clean \"demand history\" [not shipments], using the most effective statistical models. Kai Trepte developed the Microsoft Excel add-in \"Forecast X\" to provide practitioners with a workstation capability to assess the best matches between data and forecast models. Increasingly \"predictive forecasts\" have moved from a limited use to becoming best practice for more companies. Predictive forecasts use simulation of potential future outcomes and their probabilities rather than history to form the basis for long range (5-10+ years) demand plans. Baseline forecasts are typically developed by demand planners and analysts, who may be regional or centrally located. They work under the guidance of the demand manager. Baseline forecasts are communicated to members of the demand management team. This usually includes regional sales leaders, market managers, and product managers. The team may include customer service leads who manager orders under service agreements with customers and have direct insight into customer demand. For major retailers this is often point of sale data provided to suppliers.\n\nInformation technology and information system demand managers seek to understand in advance how to best meet the needs and expectations of customers, clients, partners, and enablers. Thus, proper forecast and sizing of demand is required in order to deliver a stable and effective technology environment.\n\nRomano, Grimaldi, and Colasuonno consider demand management as a harvesting activity, governed by a strategy that gives portfolios direction and a selection model intended to select the best beneficial set of activities aligned with strategic objectives. They suggest component-oriented demand management be approached proactively, with a strategy driven by business objectives, and responsibility of top management representing the chosen strategic direction.\n\n"}
{"id": "2234279", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234279", "title": "Casual Viewin'", "text": "Casual Viewin'\n\nCasual Viewin' is a 2000 album by Canadian alternative rock band 54-40. The title refers to a lyric from the Genesis song \"Broadway Melody of 1974\", which reads: \"Marshall McLuhan, casual viewin', head buried in the sand.\" 54-40 commented in interviews at the time of the album's release that they were influenced by McLuhan's work when making the album, and that they adopted the Genesis lyric as a result.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2234283", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234283", "title": "Diocese of Tunsberg", "text": "Diocese of Tunsberg\n\nTunsberg is a diocese of the Church of Norway. It includes parishes located within the counties of Vestfold and Buskerud, with the cathedral located in Tønsberg. The Diocese of Tunsberg consists of the cathedral deanery and 9 rural deaneries.\n\nPrior to the establishment of the Diocese of Tunsberg in 1948, then counties of Vestfold and Buskerud belonged to the Diocese of Oslo. In a meeting of the episcopate in 1936, it was made clear that this diocese, which encompasses about a third of Norway's population, could not be managed by a single bishop. Therefore, the episcopate suggested that Vestfold and Buskerud should become their own diocese. But the Second World War intervened; the discussion was resumed after the liberation of Norway in 1945. The result of this was that the Odelsting - the larger of the two divisions of the Storting - decided on November 24, 1947 that Vestfold and Buskerud were to become a new diocese, and that Tønsberg would be the cathedral city of the Diocese of Tunsberg. Historically Tønsberg had been an important ecclesiastical center in Norway; in the Middle Ages, there were as many as 7 churches and 3 monasteries in this small urban community.\n\nKing Haakon VII was present at the episcopal consecration in Tønsberg Cathedral on June 20, 1948. Tønsberg Cathedral was constructed of red brick and consecrated December 19, 1858. It was designed by architect Christian Heinrich Grosch with a seating capacity of 550. The church is built on the site of the medieval St. Lavrans Church. The cathedral has a pulpit dating from 1621. It is richly carved including the four evangelists and their personal symbols. The altarpiece depicting the struggle of Jesus at Gethsemane dates from 1764. The cathedral´s oldest treasures are two 16th-century Bibles, one from 1550 and one from 1589. The facility was refurbished during 1939 under the direction of Arnstein Arneberg. The interior contains stained glass windows and glass mosaics by Norwegian artist, Per Vigeland (1904–1968). A fresco painted directly on the wall above the south door, depicts Jesus as the Good Shepherd.\n\nBeside Tønsberg Cathedral is the Park of Remembrance. The park is dedicated to the Second World War heroes. There are various commemorative monuments in the park, starting from various sculptures to fountains and art work, but the most famous piece is the sculpture \"Mother and Child\" by Gustav Vigeland.\nPer Arne Dahl became Bishop of the Diocese of Tunsberg in 2014, and retired in 2018. The current bishop elect is Jan Otto Myrseth. \n\nThe Diocese of Tønsberg is divided into ten deaneries () spread out over Viken and Vestfold og Telemark counties. Each deanery corresponds a geographical area, usually one or more municipalities in the diocese. Each municipality is further divided into one or more parishes which each contain one or more congregations. \n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "2234284", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234284", "title": "Literal translation", "text": "Literal translation\n\nLiteral translation, direct translation or word-for-word translation, is a translation of a text done by translating each word separately, without looking at how the words are used together in a phrase or sentence.\n\nIn translation theory, another term for \"literal translation\" is \"metaphrase\" and for phrasal (\"sense\") translation — \"paraphrase.\"\n\nLiteral translation leads to mistranslating of idioms, which is a serious problem for machine translation.\n\nThe term \"literal translation\" often appeared in the titles of 19th-century English translations of classical, Bible and other texts.\n\nWord-for-word translations (\"cribs,\" \"ponies\", or \"trots\") are sometimes prepared for a writer who is translating a work written in a language he does not know. For example, Robert Pinsky is reported to have used a literal translation in preparing his translation of Dante's \"Inferno\" (1994), as he does not know Italian. Similarly, Richard Pevear worked from literal translations provided by his wife, Larissa Volokhonsky, in their translations of several Russian novels.\n\nLiteral translation can also denote a translation that represents the precise meaning of the original text but does not attempt to convey its style, beauty, or poetry. There is, however, a great deal of difference between a literal translation of a poetic work and a prose translation. A literal translation of poetry may be in prose rather than verse, but also be error free. Charles Singleton's translation of \"The Divine Comedy\" (1975) is regarded as a prose translation.\n\n\"Literal\" translation implies that it is probably full of errors, since the translator has made no effort to convey, for example, correct idioms or shades of meaning, but it might be also useful in seeing how words are used to convey a meaning in the source language.\n\nA literal English translation of the German word \"\"Kindergarten\"\" would be \"children garden,\" but in English the expression refers to the school year between pre-school and first grade. Literal translations in which individual components within words or compounds are translated to create new lexical items in the target language (a process also known as “loan translation”) are called calques, e.g., “beer garden” from German “Biergarten.”\n\nLiteral translation of the Italian sentence, \"\"So che questo non va bene\"\" (\"I know that this is not good\"), produces \"Know(I) that this not goes(it) well,\" which has English \"words\" and Italian \"grammar\".\n\nEarly machine translations (as of 1962 at least) were notorious for this type of translation as they simply employed a database of words and their translations. Later attempts utilized common phrases which resulted in better grammatical structure and capture of idioms but with many words left in the original language. For translating synthetic languages, a morphosyntactic analyzer and synthesizer is required.\n\nThe best systems today use a combination of the above technologies and apply algorithms to correct the \"natural\" sound of the translation. In the end though, professional translation firms that employ machine translation use it as a tool to create a rough translation that is then tweaked by a human, professional translator.\n\nOften, first-generation immigrants create something of a literal translation in how they speak their parents' native language. This results in a mix of the two languages in something of a pidgin. Many such mixes have specific names, e.g. Spanglish or Germish. For example, American children of German immigrants are heard using \"rockingstool\" from the German word \"Schaukelstuhl\" instead of \"rocking chair\".\n\nLiteral translation of idioms is a source of numerous translators' jokes and apocrypha. The following joke has often been told both in the context of newbie translators and that of machine translation: When the sentence \"The spirit is willing, but the flesh is weak\" (дух бодр, плоть же немощна, an allusion to Mark 14:38) was translated into Russian and then back to English, the result was \"The vodka is good, but the meat is rotten\" (водка хорошая, но мясо протухло). This is generally believed to be simply an amusing story, and not a factual reference to an actual machine translation error.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2234286", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234286", "title": "Prelusive", "text": "Prelusive\n\nPrelusive is the 2002 independent debut EP by Australian singer–songwriter Sarah Blasko.\n\nA video was made for \"Your Way\", and the song received a great deal of airplay on youth radio station Triple J.\n\nThe EP is called 'Prelusive' \"because that means introductory, from the word 'Prelude', which is a musical term meaning a short, independent composition\" said Blasko in a 2003 interview. \"And so I thought that word really fit because [the EP] is relatively short- only six songs, and it’s independent, and it’s a composition, or a number of compositions.\"\n\nThe EP was re-released by Sarah's new label Dew Process () on March 31, 2003.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2234289", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234289", "title": "Solomon R. Guggenheim", "text": "Solomon R. Guggenheim\n\nSolomon Robert Guggenheim (February 2, 1861 – November 3, 1949) was an American businessman and art collector. He is best known for establishing the Solomon R. Guggenheim Foundation and the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum in New York City.\n\nGuggenheim was born into a wealthy mining family, and he founded the Yukon Gold Company in Alaska, among other business interests. He began collecting art in the 1890s, and he retired from his business after World War I to pursue art collecting. He eventually focused on modern art under the guidance of artist Baroness Hilla von Rebay, creating an important collection by the 1930s and opening his first museum in 1939.\n\nGuggenheim was born in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, son of Meyer and Barbara Guggenheim and brother of Simon, Benjamin, Daniel and five other siblings. He was of Swiss and Ashkenazi Jewish ancestry.\n\nFollowing studies in Switzerland at the Concordia Institute in Zürich, he returned to the United States to work in the family mining business, later founding the Yukon Gold Company in Alaska. In 1891, he turned around the Compañia de la Gran Fundición Nacional Mexicana. He married Irene Rothschild, daughter of Victor Henry Rothschild, in 1895. His children were Eleanor (1896–1992) (later Lady Castle Stewart after her marriage to Arthur Stuart, 7th Earl Castle Stewart), Gertrude (1898–1966) and Barbara Guggenheim (1904–1985).\n\nHe began collecting works of the old masters in the 1890s. He retired from his business in 1919 to devote more time to art collecting and in 1926, met Baroness Hilla von Rebay. In 1930, they visited Wassily Kandinsky’s studio in Dessau, Germany, and Guggenheim began to purchase Kandinsky's work. The same year, Guggenheim began to display the collection to the public at his apartment in the Plaza Hotel in New York City. Guggenheim's purchases continued with the works of Rudolf Bauer, Marc Chagall, Fernand Léger and László Moholy-Nagy.\n\nIn 1937, Guggenheim established the Solomon R. Guggenheim Foundation to foster the appreciation of modern art, and in 1939, he and his art advisor, Baroness Rebay, opened a venue for the display of his collection, the Museum of Non-Objective Painting, at 24 East 54th Street. Under Rebay's guidance, Guggenheim sought to include in the collection the most important examples of non-objective art available at the time, such as Kandinsky's \"Composition 8\" (1923), Léger's \"Contrast of Forms\" (1913) and Robert Delaunay's \"Simultaneous Windows\" (2nd Motif, 1st Part)\" (1912).\n\nBy the early 1940s, the museum had accumulated such a large collection of avant-garde paintings that the need for a permanent building to house the art collection had become apparent. In 1943, Guggenheim and Rebay commissioned architect Frank Lloyd Wright to design a new museum building. In 1948, the collection was greatly expanded through the purchase of art dealer Karl Nierendorf's estate of some 730 objects, notably German expressionist paintings. By that time, the museum's collection included a broad spectrum of expressionist and surrealist works, including paintings by Paul Klee, Oskar Kokoschka and Joan Miró.\n\nGuggenheim died in 1949 on Long Island, New York, and the museum was renamed the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum in 1952. The museum opened in New York City on October 21, 1959.\n\nIn addition to the New York Museum, the Guggenheim Foundation operates, among other things, the Guggenheim Museum Bilbao in Spain and the Peggy Guggenheim Collection in Venice, which was established by Guggenheim's niece, Peggy Guggenheim.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2234297", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234297", "title": "Carignan-Salières Regiment", "text": "Carignan-Salières Regiment\n\nThe Carignan-Salières Regiment was a Piedmont French military unit formed by merging two other regiments in 1659. They were led by the new Governor, Daniel de Rémy de Courcelles, and Lieutenant General Alexandre de Prouville, Sieur de Tracy. Approximately 1,200 men (Piedmont, Savoyard and Ligurian) arrived in New France the middle of 1665.\n\nThe Carignan-Salières was formed from two existing regiments: the Balthasar Regiment, formed during the Thirty Years' War and becoming the Salières when Balthasar died in 1665, and the Carignan Regiment, formed in 1644 in Piedmont. Following the Treaty of the Pyrenees in 1659, both regiments avoided disbandment by merging to form the Carignan-Salières Regiment.\n\nNew France was initially a proprietary colony granted by the French Crown to various corporations to rule provided they fulfilled various terms of their charters like supporting the missionary work of the Roman Catholic Church amongst the Indians. After the successive bankruptcies of the various corporations which had previously received royal charters, in 1627, trading in New France was granted by the Crown to the \"Compagnie des Cent-Associés\" (\"Company of 100 Associates\"), who gained exclusive rights to rule New France, provided they fulfilled the terms of the royal charter. In 1649, the Iroquois began the Beaver Wars to take control of the fur trade by eliminating other middlemen, which also embroiled them in conflict with the French. In 1649, the Iroquois destroyed the enervated Wendat (Huron) nation, whose homeland, Wendake, lies in what is now southern Ontario, bordered on three sides by Lake Ontario, Lake Simcoe and Georgian Bay; it was through Wendake that the Ojibwa and Cree, who lived further north, traded with the French. The destruction of the Wendat nation destabilized the fur trade for the French, and the Odawa quickly took their place as the middlemen, bringing furs from the northern lands to Montreal, as did coureurs de bois.\n\nThe \"Compagnie des Cent-Associés\" barely hung on against the Iroquois onslaught, with Iroquois war parties intercepting canoes carrying furs to Montreal, cutting off French forts, raiding French settlements along the banks of the St. Lawrence river to carry off captives, and sometimes laying out iron chains they had obtained from the Dutch to blockade the St. Lawrence to prevent ships from using the river. By 1660, the total population of New France was 3, 035 with about 1, 928 being French. There were about 900 people living in Quebec City and about 200 each in Montreal and Trois-Rivères, and the rest spread out in small settlements along the St. Lawrence. The white population of New France was 63% male and most were engaged in someway in the fur trade. The \"Compagnie des Cent-Associés\" fulfilled the terms of its royal charter to bring settlers to New France, but most were indentured laborers who left New France at the end of their five-year contracts. The harsh winters, the shortage of women, and the threat of being carried off by the Iroquois led to very few Frenchmen wanting to stay, and unable to build the population, the \"Compagnie des Cent-Associés\" simply lacked the manpower to counter the Iroquois. Throughout the struggle, the authorities in New France sent desperate appeals for help to Paris, only to be informed France was fully engaged in a war with Spain that did not end until 1659 and there were no soldiers to spare to send to New France. Additionally, France was caught in a series of civil wars known as the \"Fronde\" in the 1650s, and with Frenchmen busy killing each other, it was inconceivable to send a force across the Atlantic. But even after the Peace of the Pyrenees ended the war with Spain in 1659, the Crown remained indifferent to New France. In 1661, Pierre Boucher, the governor of Trois-Rivères, visited Paris to beg for help, saying that people in Trois-Rivères were afraid to go outside without a weapon lest they be carried off by the Iroquois, only to be politely told that the responsibility of the defense of New France rested with the \"Compagnie des Cent-Associés\", not the Crown. Unable to turn a profit with the \"Beaver Wars\" raging, the \"Compagnie des Cent-Associés\" went bankrupt in 1663 and New France became a Crown colony ruled directly by the French state. The immediate concern of King Louis XIV was to make the new Crown colony turn a profit, which would require ending the Iroquois threat.\n\nIn 1664, following the request of the Sovereign Council, the French finance minister Jean-Baptiste Colbert ordered the Carignan-Salières to reinforce the existing 100 man force in New France. This reinforcement was as much, if not more, motivated by mercantile ambitions than actual cries for help from New France. In a letter to Bishop François Laval written on 18 March 1664, Colbert promised him: \"His Majesty has resolved to send a good regiment of infantry at the end of the year, or in the month of February next, in order to destroy these barbarians [the Iroquois] completely\". Louis XIV had ambitious foreign policy plans for Europe, most notably pushing France to its \"natural frontiers\", and Colbert had promoted a mercantile economic policy to pay for the projected wars in Europe. Colbert had hopes that if New France was properly developed, it could play the same role for France that Peru and Mexico did for Spain, providing a source of wealth that would pay for the wars to come. Louis, Colbert and other French leaders were envious of the way that the gold and silver of the New World had allowed Spain to afford a powerful military, and very much wanted New France to play the same role for them. By now the regiment had been reduced to eight companies of about 400 troops; this was insufficient to meet King Louis XIV's demand for a large military force. The regiment's strength was increased to 20 companies and 1000 troops by absorbing 12 other French companies, including those from the Lallier, Chambellé, Poitou, and Broglio regiments. A popular erroneous story in New France was that the regiment had fought in the Austro-Turkish War of 1663–64; the story may have arisen from troops of the 12 new companies, many of whom may have fought in that war.\n\nFour companies under Alexandre de Prouville joined the Carignan-Salières in New France from Martinique; de Prouville companies were attached to, but never formally integrated into, the Carignan-Salières.\n\nThe following were members of the leadership hierarchy in New France during the regiment's stay:\n\n\nThe following is a list of ships that carried the Carignan-Salières Regiment from France to New France in 1665.\n\nSeven ships were required to transport the regiment to New France. The first, \"Le Vieux Siméon\", departed La Rochelle 19 April 1665, arriving at Quebec 1 July 1665. On board were the companies of La Fouille, Froment, Chambly and Rougment. The arrival of the first companies of the regiment at one stroke increased the population of Quebec City by 25%, and an immediate problem was building housing for the newly arrived soldiers who at first had to camp out in tents outside Quebec City. The \"Le Vieux Siméon\" was a Dutch ship chartered by a La Rochelle merchant, Pierre Gaigneur, who was well-experienced sailing between France and its colonies.\n\nThe next two ships to depart from France were \"La Paix\" and \"L’Aigle d’Or\". The former carried the companies of La Colonelle, celles de Contrecoeur, Maximy, and Sorel, and on board the latter were de Salières, La Fredière, Grandfontaine and La Motte. These both were royal ships of the king's navy that departed from La Rochelle 13 May 1665, arriving at Quebec 18 August 1665.\n\nThe following two ships were also royal vessels: \"Le Saint Sébastian\" and \"Le Justice\". Aboard \"Le Saint Sébastian\", amongst these next seven companies being transported to New France, were the newly appointed Intendant of New France, Jean Talon, and the Governor Daniel de Rémy de Courcelles. Aboard the final two ships were the companies of Du Prat, Naurois, Laubia, Saint-Ours, Petit, La Varenne, Vernon. These last two ships to depart from France left La Rochelle 24 May 1665, arriving at Quebec 12 September 1665.\n\nFour companies arrived with Alexandre de Prouville de Tracy on the Brézé from the Antilles, arriving in New France 30 June 1665. The captains of these companies were La Durantaye (Chambellé), Berthier (L'Allier), La Brisardière (Orléans), Monteil (Poitou). Tracy had been in the West Indies as part of his royal commission to officially establish Louis XIV's rule of the French colonies, following the King's takeover of the French territories after the bankruptcy of the Company of 100 Associates.\n\nThe last ship to sail from France associated with the regiment was the \"Jardin de Hollande\" which carried the provisions and equipment for the troops.\n\n\"Depending on sources, there are some contradictions as to when ships arrived in New France and what companies were on board said ships.\"\n\nThey were welcomed as saviours, particularly by Mother Marie of the Incarnation, head of the local convent, who wrote of their arrival:\n\nAlthough Mother Marie viewed them as saviors, modern day scholars like Jack Verney argue that their mission, contrary to what she states, was \"a secular rather than sacred one\".Jean-Baptiste Colbert wanted to develop the colony's economic potential. After requiring that the Company of One Hundred Associates (Compagnie de la Nouvelle-France) relinquish its monopoly on trade in 1663, Louis XIV and his minister finally had the control they needed to develop the colony's economic potential.\n\nIn Montreal, the Sulpician priest, François Dollier de Casson, reacted to the soldiers negatively, saying that \"vices which have, in fact, risen and grown here since that time [when the troops arrived], along with many other troubles and misfortunes which had not up to that time made their appearance here\".\n\nIn Verney's view, this is a much more realistic account of how the men had \"marked their progress along the road to La Rochelle with outbreaks of disorder and indiscipline\".\n\nThe regiment's service in New France began when a third of them were ordered to build new forts along the Richelieu River, the principal route of the Iroquois marauders. Fort Chambly formerly known as Fort St. Louis at Chambly, Fort Sainte Thérèse, and Fort Saint-Jean at Saint-Jean-sur-Richelieu, were along the Richelieu River and were constructed as ways to limit Iroquois nation attacks on citizens of New France. Fort Sainte Anne in Lake Champlain was near the river's source. All of the forts were used as supply stations for the troops as they were deployed on their two campaigns into Iroquois nation land in 1666.\n\nFort Chambly as constructed in 1665 was the first wooden fort constructed in New France and had a rudimentary wood wall system with a building in the center of the fort. Inside, and near the center building, were small buildings for the troops.\n\nThe first of the regiment's campaign took place in the winter of 1666. The expedition was initiated by the governor, Daniel de Rémy de Courcelles. General Alexandre de Prouville de Tracy agreed to the campaign after the Mohawks refused to attend a delegation of the Iroquois nations and French leaders in Montreal in November 1665. At this delegation the French entered into agreements with the Oneida and Onondaga nations of the Iroquois Confederacy, who were there to represent themselves as well as the Cayugas and the Senecas. Tracy interpreted the Mohawk absence as signalling a threatening lack of intimidation by the presence of the Carignan-Salières soldiers.\n\nThe Marquis de Salières, recognized that the winter campaign would not succeed without basic necessities such as proper clothing, shoes and cooking equipment. Marquis de Salières thought that this endeavour was impossible, stating in his memoirs that:\n\nThe men left 30 January 1666 under the orders of Courcelles, despite the fact that their Native guides had not yet arrived. Indeed, this campaign also differed greatly from the European tradition of not campaigning in winter. The campaign was made up of about five hundred men of regimental soldiers, a number of Indians, and an estimated 200 volunteer \"habitants\". The column ended up getting lost, wandering in the wilderness for three weeks before ending up on the outskirts of the Anglo-Dutch settlement of Schenectady. The soldiers came across a village that they assumed was Mohawk and launched a brutal attack, ravaging the village and killing two and severely wounding another two.\n\nThe sounds of the battle were overheard by a passing Mohawk party of composed of approximately sixty warriors. The French and Mohawks engaged in a small skirmish which resulted in a small number of casualties on both sides. The French troops were at a tactical disadvantage as they were used to the pitched battles regulated by rigid drills commonly used in Continental Europe. Despite the experience of the soldiers of the Carignan-Salières Regiment, their tactics were useless against the hit-and-run tactics used by the Mohawks. The fighting ended when the burgomaster of Schenectady informed Courcelles that he was in the territory of the Duke of York. The burgomaster implied that if the French chose to stay in the settlement they would be vulnerable to attacks by both Indians and the English units stationed at Schenectady and Albany (less than 25 kilometres away). The French stopped the attack and the burgomaster agreed to provide the men with some provisions for their return journey.\n\nThe campaign was ultimately a failure. Nothing was accomplished and the regiment sustained great losses; 400 out of 500 died. Due to the hastiness with which the campaign had been launched and the harshness of the weather, most of the deaths occurred while travelling from and to Fort St. Louis. When Courcelles commanded that the troops were to meet at Fort St. Louis at the end of January, he said that they should be prepared with three weeks worth of provisions. In total, the expedition took a little over five weeks to complete. What is more, the men were ill-equipped—many left the fort without snowshoes—which contributed significantly to the campaign's death toll.\n\nThe regiment's second and final campaign was led by Alexandre de Prouville de Tracy. The plan was to enter into Mohawk territory, located northwest of Schenectady along what is now the Mohawk River. The necessity of the campaign was created by the declaration of the Second Anglo-Dutch War in the summer of 1666. King Louis XIV wanted de Tracy to lead the men into the same area where they were the last year near Albany and Schenectady. However, it was first necessary for the French to subdue the Mohawks to protect themselves from facing multiple fronts against both the English and Mohawks. In addition, they wanted to ensure that their two opponents would not ally themselves against the French. The destruction of four Mohawk villages was the most important outcome of the venture. However, there was no real fighting as the villages the regiment came across had been abandoned prior to the arrival of the regiment.\n\nThe plan was for the regiment to regroup at Fort Sainte Anne on the 28 and push into Mohawk territory on 29 September 1666. The Late arriving of several parties meant the regiment left in three separate columns over a period of three days. The number of men available in the campaign was approximately 120 regimental soldiers, \"habitants\" and Native warriors. Because de Tracy sought to use the element of surprise and swiftly move into enemy territory, he ordered his soldiers to travel light. Thus, from the beginning of the campaign, the Regiment's situation was precarious as the soldiers brought insufficient provisions and did not carry the necessary equipment for a lengthy assault. Inclement weather added to the danger of the mission and further threatened the campaign's success.\n\nAs it moved inland, the regiment encountered four Mohawk villages all of which had been abandoned. The fact that the Mohawks abandoned their villages was fortuitous for the regiment since it was not operating at full strength and the soldiers were stretched over a large area. At this point in the campaign, the regiment probably would not have been able to withstand a large-scale attack. What is more, the villages were hastily abandoned thus providing the French troops with a supply of food, tools, weapons, and other provisions. After regrouping at the last of the four villages, Tracy ordered the soldiers to turn around and burn each one as they went, carrying all the loot they could back to Quebec. The Mohawks, though skilled in guerilla fighting, were caught by surprise by the speed of the French attack and were unable to engage the French. On 17 October 1666, the lands and fields surrounding the Mohawk villages were all claimed as French territory and crosses were erected to symbolize that claim. However, the French never returned to the area to enforce this territorial claim.\n\nDespite the fact that the French troops had not directly engaged the Mohawks or the English, the campaign was considered a great success; the French finally assumed a position of tactical superiority over the Mohawk and Iroquois Confederacy which in turn gave the French a diplomatic advantage in the following peace talks. In July 1667, peace was signed with the Iroquois following a five-day summit. The main objective of the French during the negotiations was to consolidate their control of the fur trade at the expense of the Anglo-Dutch interests in Albany. They sought to do so by placing themselves in a position that allowed them to oversee the traffic of the fur trade in the region. As a result, the French were able to place French-speaking traders as well as Jesuits in a number of Iroquois village. To ensure the success of this agreement as well as the security of the traders and missionaries, a system of hostages was implemented. Each Iroquois village was required to send two members of a leading family to live among in the St. Lawrence Valley. Following the ratification of the treaties of 1667, the peace was kept in the region for twenty years. The peace treaties of 1667 also signaled the end of the regiment's operations in New France. Nonetheless, the troops of the Carignan-Salières Regiment were held in duty until another means of protecting New France could be devised.\n\nEven though the Edict of Nantes in 1598 had allowed French Protestants to live in France, the law was not always observed in the colonies. The king had given huge power to the Jesuit order by making it part of New France's government. So, when Mgr de Laval discovered the significant numbers of unconfirmed Catholics and even some French Protestants within the ranks of the regiment, drastic measures were taken. Jesuit Father Claude Dablon gave two emergency sermons within five days of the first eight companies landing in New France to reaffirm the relapsed and unconfirmed Catholics in the regiment.\n\nThe first regulars of the Carignan-Salières were dressed for \"efficiency rather than looks\". Additionally, the soldiers were rather poorly equipped during their first year. In the duration of one year, the king had sent only 200 flintlocks as well as 100 pistols for a troop force of over 1,200 men. Below are descriptions of some of the equipment used:\n\n\nWith the end to the Iroquois threat, King Louis XIV decided to offer the men of the regiment an opportunity to stay in New France to help increase the population. As incentive, regular officers were offered 100 livres or 50 livres and a year worth of rations. Lieutenants, alternatively, were offered 150 livres or 100 livres and a year worth of rations. Officers were also offered the incentive of large land grants in the forms of seigneuries. This offer was particularly beneficial to such men as Pierre de Saurel, Alexandre Berthier, Antoine Pécaudy de Contrecœur, and François Jarret de Verchères, who were granted large seigneuries in New France.\n\nAlthough the majority of the regiment returned to France in 1668, about 450 remained behind to settle in Canada. These men were highly encouraged to marry, being offered land as incentive. As a result, most of them did marry newly arriving women to the colony known as Filles du Roi. The largest import of women to New France occurred during the 1660s and early 1670s, largely in response to the need to provide wives for the regiment.\n\nBesides just rewarding Carignan-Salières officers by granting them seigneurial tenures, the tenure properties served an ulterior purpose. The properties granted to Contrecœur and Saurel were placed in strategic areas that could be used as a buffer between invaders both foreign (the British) as well as domestic (the Iroquois). It was believed that the men of the Carignan-Salières would be the colonists best suited to defend the territories of New France, therefore many of them were given properties on the Richelieu river and other areas prone to attack. These Seigneurs would sub grant land to the men of their companies in order to create an even more thoroughly reinforced zone. Saurel's land would later be known as Sorel-Tracy in Quebec, while Contrecœur's property would later become a region named after himself.\n\nThe French had a practice of allotting \"noms de guerre\" – nicknames – to their soldiers (this is still continued, but for different reasons, in the Foreign Legion). Many of these nicknames remain today as they gradually became the official surnames of the many soldiers who elected to remain in Canada when their service expired as well as the names of cities and towns throughout New France.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2234309", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234309", "title": "What Time Is It? (album)", "text": "What Time Is It? (album)\n\nWhat Time Is It? is a 1982 album by the Time. The album was recorded at Sunset Sound and Prince's home studio in the Minneapolis suburbs. The title of the album comes from an exclamation by Morris Day that became associated with the band's on-stage theatrics, appearing frequently on the band's debut album as well.\n\nShowcasing a denser and more inventive Minneapolis sound, \"What Time Is It?\" produced three singles: \"777-9311\", \"The Walk\" and \"Gigolos Get Lonely Too\".\nAlthough the individual members of the Time are credited with instrumentation, it's likely that all instruments were played by Prince. Morris Day sang lead vocals, and Vanity performed spoken vocals on \"The Walk\". \n\nThe album peaked at number 26 on the \"Billboard\" 200 and number two on the Top Soul LPs. It spent a total of 33 weeks on the Billboard 200 and 38 weeks on the R&B Albums chart. The album's peaking was more successful than the group's previous release. The album was eventually certified gold by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA) for sales over 500,000 copies in the United States. The Time supported the album by touring as one of Prince's opening acts on the 1999 Tour.\n\nNote that the original label gave writing credits to Morris Day or The Time for all six songs. However, the songs were officially registered with ASCAP as being written by Prince, or by Prince and Dez Dickerson, which is from where the official writing credits have been sourced.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2234324", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234324", "title": "Beverly Hills Family Robinson", "text": "Beverly Hills Family Robinson\n\nBeverly Hills Family Robinson is a 1997 American Walt Disney television film based on the novel \"Swiss Family Robinson\" by Johann David Wyss. The film features Dyan Cannon, Martin Mull, Sarah Michelle Gellar and Ryan O'Donohue as the main cast and was aired on ABC.\n\nThis Disney film was shot in the Far North of Queensland, Australia from 25 January to 23 February 1996.\n\nMarsha Robinson (Dyan Cannon) is a famous TV personality and has her own lifestyle and cooking show. Together with her husband Doug (Martin Mull), a dentist, her daughter Jane (Sarah Michelle Gellar) and her son Roger (Ryan O'Donohue) she lives in Beverly Hills. Marsha's TV show takes her and her family to Hawaii. When the Robinsons arrive in Honolulu their yacht is captured by 'modern pirates' at night and when they wake up in the morning they find themselves and their unbidden guests on the open sea. But being the Robinsons they trick the pirates and leave them behind in a lifeboat.\n\nWhen things finally seemed to be good and the Robinsons try to sail to the next harbor, the yacht gets into a storm and the family shipwrecks on a deserted island. Of course, Marsha Robinson - being a socialite - freaks out and threatens her husband with a nervous breakdown if they aren't saved within the next 45 minutes and the rest of the family isn't fond of their situation either. But nobody saves them and nobody knows where they are. So there's nothing to do but settle in, survive and build a tree house.\n\nLife on the island turns into routine, although Marsha films herself while giving statements about her family's miserable situation after the shipwreck - just in case they'll be saved and she has footage for TV shows.\n\nMeanwhile the pirates have been stranded on the island, too, which the Robinsons do not know. The island also has an inhabitant, a shipwrecked surfer named Digger, who secretly eats all of Marsha's chocolates. The Robinsons get to know him when Doug has an underwater-accident and needs to be saved by a good swimmer. Jane falls in love with him. He helps the Robinsons finish their treehouse and becomes a member of the family.\n\nThe pirates discover the Robinsons and now the Robinsons need to struggle with the unbidden guests once again.\n\nList of television films produced for American Broadcasting Company\n"}
{"id": "2234328", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234328", "title": "Casual Viewin' USA", "text": "Casual Viewin' USA\n\nCasual Viewin' USA is a 2001 album by Canadian rock group, 54-40.\n\nThe album was compiled by the band's American distributor, Nettwerk, as a compilation of tracks from several of the band's previous albums, including its 2000 titlemate, \"Casual Viewin'\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2234333", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234333", "title": "Data (computing)", "text": "Data (computing)\n\nData (treated as singular, plural, or as a mass noun) is any sequence of one or more symbols given meaning by specific act(s) of interpretation.\n\nData (or datum – a single unit of data) requires interpretation to become information. To translate data to information, there must be several known factors considered. The factors involved are determined by the creator of the data and the desired information. The term metadata is used to reference the data about the data. Metadata may be implied, specified or given. Data relating to physical events or processes will also have a temporal component. In almost all cases this temporal component is implied. This is the case when a device such as a temperature logger receives data from a temperature sensor. When the temperature is received it is assumed that the data has a temporal references of \"now\". So the device records the date, time and temperature together. When the data logger communicates temperatures, it must also report the date and time (metadata) for each temperature.\n\nDigital data is data that is represented using the binary number system of ones (1) and zeros (0), as opposed to analog representation. In modern (post 1960) computer systems, all data is digital. Data within a computer, in most cases, moves as parallel data. Data moving to or from a computer, in most cases, moves as serial data. See Parallel communication and Serial communication. Data sourced from an analog device, such as a temperature sensor, must pass through an analog-to-digital converter (ADC) to convert the analog data to digital data.\n\nData representing quantities, characters, or symbols on which operations are performed by a computer are stored and recorded on magnetic, optical, or mechanical recording media, and transmitted in the form of digital electrical signals.\n\nA program is a set of data that consists of a series of coded software instructions to control the operation of a computer or other machine. Physical computer memory elements consist of an address and a byte/word of data storage. Digital data are often stored in relational databases, like tables or SQL databases, and can generally be represented as abstract key/value pairs.\n\nData can be organized in many different types of data structures, including arrays, graphs, and objects. Data structures can store data of many different types, including numbers, strings and even other data structures. Data pass in and out of computers via peripheral devices.\n\nIn an alternate usage, binary files (which are not human-readable) are sometimes called \"data\" as distinguished from human-readable \"text\". The total amount of digital data in 2007 was estimated to be 281 billion gigabytes (= 281 exabytes).\nDigital data comes in these three states: data at rest, data in transit and data in use.\n\nAt its most essential, a single datum is a value stored at a specific location.\n\nFundamentally, computers follow a sequence of instructions they are given in the form of data. A set of instructions to perform a given task (or tasks) is called a \"program\". In the nominal case, the program, as executed by the computer, will consist of binary machine code. The elements of storage manipulated by the program, but not actually executed by the CPU, are also data. Program instructions, and the data that the program manipulates, are both stored in exactly the same way. Therefore, it is possible for computer programs to operate on other computer programs, by manipulating their programmatic data.\n\nThe line between program and data can become blurry. An interpreter, for example, is a program. The input data to an interpreter is itself a program, just not one expressed in native machine language. In many cases, the interpreted program will be a human-readable text file, which is manipulated with a text editor program (more normally associated with plain text data). Metaprogramming similarly involves programs manipulating other programs as data. Programs like compilers, linkers, debuggers, program updaters, virus scanners and such use other programs as their data.\n\nTo store data bytes in a file, they have to be serialized in a \"file format\". Typically, programs are stored in special file types, different from those used for other data. Executable files contain programs; all other files are also data files. However, executable files may also contain \"in-line\" data which is built into the program. In particular, some executable files have a data segment, which nominally contains constants and initial values (both data).\n\nFor example: a user might first instruct the operating system to load a word processor program from one file, and then edit a document stored in another file with the word processor program. In this example, the document would be considered data. If the word processor also features a spell checker, then the dictionary (word list) for the spell checker would also be considered data. The algorithms used by the spell checker to suggest corrections would be either machine code data or text in some interpretable programming language.\n\nKeys in data provide the context for values. Regardless of the structure of data, there is always a key component present. Data keys in data and data-structures are essential for giving meaning to data values. Without a key that is directly or indirectly associated with a value, or collection of values in a structure, the values become meaningless and cease to be data. That is to say, there has to be at least a key component linked to a value component in order for it to be considered data. Data can be represented in computers in multiple ways, as per the following examples:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2234334", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234334", "title": "Approved drug", "text": "Approved drug\n\nAn approved drug is a preparation that has been validated for a therapeutic use by a ruling authority of a government. This process is specific by country.\n\nIn the United States, the FDA approves drugs. Before a drug can be prescribed, it must undergo the FDA's approval process. Drug companies seeking to sell a drug in the United States must first test it. The company then sends the Food and Drug Administration's Center for Drug Evaluation and Research (CDER) evidence from these tests to prove the drug is safe and effective for its intended use. A fee is required to make such FDA submission. For financial year 2020, this fee was: for an application requiring clinical data ($2,942,965) and for an application not requiring clinical data ($1,471,483). A team of CDER physicians, statisticians, chemists, pharmacologists, and other scientists reviews the company's data and proposed labeling. If this independent and unbiased review establishes that a drug's health benefits outweigh its known risks, the drug is approved for sale. The center doesn't actually test drugs itself, although it does conduct limited research in the areas of drug quality, safety, and effectiveness standards.\n\nAs of the end of 2013, the FDA and its predecessors had approved 1,452 drugs, though not all are still available, and some have been withdrawn for safety reasons. Accounting for subsequent corporate acquisitions, these approvals were earned by approximately 100 different organizations.\n\nIn the European Union, it is the European Medicines Agency (EMA) that evaluates medicinal products.\n\nIn Japan, the agency regulating medicinal products is Pharmaceuticals and Medical Devices Agency (PMDA).\n\nOn average, only one in every 5,000 compounds that makes it through lead development to the stage of preclinical development becomes an approved drug. Only 10% of all drugs started in human clinical trials become an approved drug.\n\n"}
{"id": "2234338", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234338", "title": "Calumet Specialty Products Partners", "text": "Calumet Specialty Products Partners\n\nCalumet Specialty Products Partners, L.P. is a public U.S.-based company, incorporated in 1916, which specializes in the manufacturing of naphthenic and paraffinic oils as well as aliphatic solvents and paraffin waxes. They own several manufacturing plants in Princeton, Cotton Valley, and Shreveport, Louisiana, as well as in Burnham, Illinois, Dickinson, TX, Karns City, Pennsylvania, and Superior, WI.\nIn 2001, Calumet acquired the Shreveport facility from Pennzoil-Quaker State and it is one of the only complete specialty refineries operating in the United States. The Shreveport refinery is the largest operating facility in northwest Louisiana. The Shreveport Refinery is considered the flagship refinery of Calumet.\nOn October 1, 2011 Calumet acquired the Superior, WI refinery from Murphy Oil USA. This Superior Refinery primarily produces fuels along with Asphalt and Bunker Fuel to the Great Lakes shipping industry allowing Calumet to diversify their product offerings. In 2013, Calumet proposed spending $20 million to upgrade a dock near the Superior refinery to transport crude oil on barges across the Great Lakes. In August 2017, the Superior refinery was sold to Husky Superior Refining Holding Corporation, a wholly owned unit of Husky Energy. This move was taken in order to focus on specialty petroleum products.\n\nCalumet acquired Royal Purple in 2012 headquartered in Porter, Texas. It produces a wide range of high performance lubricants for nearly every consumer and industrial application.\n\nIn April 2020, Calumet Specialty Products Partners announced that current board member Steve Mawer will take over as new CEO of the company replacing Tim Go.\n\n"}
{"id": "2234347", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234347", "title": "Yes to Everything", "text": "Yes to Everything\n\nYes to Everything is a 2005 album by Canadian alternative rock band 54-40. This was the first 54-40 album recorded with the band's new guitarist, Dave Genn (former guitarist of Matthew Good Band). The album was recorded at The Warehouse Studio in Vancouver using former Midnight Oil and Matthew Good producer Warne Livesey.\n\n"}
{"id": "2234358", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234358", "title": "LLL", "text": "LLL\n\nLLL may stand for:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2234363", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234363", "title": "2 Columbus Circle", "text": "2 Columbus Circle\n\n2 Columbus Circle is a 12-story building located on a small trapezoidal lot on the south side of Columbus Circle on the Upper West Side of Manhattan, New York City. Bordered by 58th Street, 59th Street, Broadway, and Eighth Avenue, it stands on the site of the former seven-story Grand Circle Hotel. It opened in 1964, after A&P heir Huntington Hartford hired architect Edward Durell Stone to build a museum for him at the site. Controversy was sparked in 2002 after the Museum of Arts and Design (MAD) purchased the building and planned to significantly alter its design, including modifying its facade. Calls had been made since 1996 for the building to be landmarked, so its proposed landmark status was brought into question with this renovation. The renovations were completed in 2008.\n\nThe seven-story Grand Circle Hotel, designed by William H. Cauvet, stood at this address from 1874; later called the Boulevard Hotel, it was demolished in 1960.\n\nIn 1964, A&P heir Huntington Hartford hired architect Edward Durell Stone to build a museum for him at 2 Columbus Circle. At the time Hartford had one of the world's greatest art collections, including works by Rembrandt, Monet, Manet, Turner, and Salvador Dalí. Hartford commissioned Dalí to paint a painting called \"The Discovery of America by Christopher Columbus\" for the opening, which attracted many celebrities, such as the Duke of Windsor. 2 Columbus Circle opened as the Gallery of Modern Art, displaying Hartford's collection. Until 2005, the building was a 12-story modernist structure, marble-clad with Venetian motifs and a curved façade. It had filigree-like portholes and windows that ran along an upper loggia at its top stories. With architect Philip L. Goodwin, Stone had previously designed the Museum of Modern Art in the International style, which opened to the public on May 10, 1939. Hartford wanted his Gallery of Modern Art to represent an alternative view of modernism.\n\nThe building was often called \"The Lollipop Building\" in reference to a mocking review by architecture critic Ada Louise Huxtable in which she called it a \"die-cut Venetian palazzo on lollipops\". However, three decades later she admitted that she got \"a little lift, a sense of pleasure\" when she walked past it. Nonetheless, Huxtable took issue with the campaign to save the building, writing in \"The Wall Street Journal\" that: \"It was an unworthy performance that did little credit to anyone who cares about preservation and can only serve as an object lesson of how not to go about it.\"\n\nThe Gallery of Modern Art closed by 1969. Fairleigh Dickinson University received 2 Columbus Circle as a gift from Hartford and operated it as the New York Cultural Center, where art exhibitions were sometimes hosted. Six years later, Gulf and Western Industries purchased 2 Columbus Circle. In exchange for tax breaks, Sumner Redstone got a clause that Hartford had, which said that the building could never be renovated or destroyed. The building went unused until 1980, when Gulf and Western presented 2 Columbus Circle to the City of New York as a gift. The City of New York accepted 2 Columbus Circle and installed the headquarters for the Department of Cultural Affairs. The New York Convention and Visitors Bureau also began to be housed in 2 Columbus Circle.\n\nThe Museum of Arts and Design, now at 2 Columbus Circle, was founded in 1956 by the American Craft Council together with philanthropist Aileen Osborn Webb, as the Museum of Contemporary Crafts. It relocated to 40 West 53rd Street in 1986, and was renamed the American Craft Museum. In 2002, it changed its name again to the Museum of Arts and Design.\n\nConcurrently, interest in landmarking this building had begun in 1996, soon after the building turned thirty years old and became eligible for landmark designation. In this year, Robert A. M. Stern included it in his article \"A Preservationist's List of 35 Modern Landmarks-in-Waiting\" written for \"The New York Times\". Stone's design at 2 Columbus Circle was listed as one of the World Monuments Fund's \"100 most endangered sites\" in 2006. The same year, Jennifer Raab, Chairman of the Landmarks Preservation Commission, reviewed with the Designation Committee of the Commission the possibility of recommending a hearing on 2 Columbus Circle. In 1998, the Department of Cultural Affairs and the Convention and Visitors Bureau vacated 2 Columbus Circle, and in 2002, under Landmarks Preservation Commission Chairman Sherida Paulsen, the Designation Committee reviewed the request to hold a hearing and again voted not to. MAD was designated as the site developer of 2 Columbus Circle by the New York City Economic Development Corporation in June 2002. In 2004, the National Trust for Historic Preservation called it one of America's \"11 Most Endangered Historic Places\". Despite a serious preservation effort, the New York City Department of Buildings approved the permit for MAD to begin removing 2 Columbus Circle's facade.\n\nBy the end of renovations in 2008, the museum moved to this building. The new location at 2 Columbus Circle, with more than , more than tripled the size of the Museum's former space. It includes four floors of exhibition galleries for works by established and emerging artists; a 150-seat auditorium in which the museum plans to feature lectures, films, and performances; and a restaurant. It also includes a Center for the Study of Jewelry, and an Education Center that offers multi-media access to primary source material, hands-on classrooms for students, and three artists-in-residence studios.\n\nThe museum's plans to radically alter the building's original design touched off a preservation debate joined by many notable people, including Tom Wolfe (\"The New York Times\"; October 12, 2003 and October 13, 2003), Chuck Close, Frank Stella, Robert A. M. Stern, Columbia University art history department chairman Barry Bergdoll, \"New York Times\" architecture critics Herbert Muschamp and Nicolai Ouroussoff, and urbanist scholar Witold Rybczynski, among others. Congresswoman Carolyn B. Maloney (D-NY) referred to it as \"one of New York's most photographed and readily recognizable buildings.\" However, Mayor Michael Bloomberg, Ada Louise Huxtable, and others supported the redevelopment of the long-neglected site.\n\nStone's building was listed as worthy of preservation by organizations, including: the New York/Tri-State Chapter of DOCOMOMO, the Historic Districts Council, the Municipal Art Society, the National Trust for Historic Preservation, the New York Landmarks Conservancy, the Preservation League of New York State, and the World Monuments Fund. Despite this, the New York City Landmarks Commission never held a public hearing on its fate. E-mails obtained under the Freedom of Information Act between NYC Landmarks Commission chairman Robert Tierney and Laurie Beckelman, who worked for the Museum of Art and Design, suggest that the pair worked behind the scenes to keep the building from being considered by the landmarks panel. A city permit to allow removal of the existing facade was issued on June 29, 2005.\n\nThe August 9, 2005, edition of \"The New York Times\" reported that members of the Landmarks Preservation Commission took the rare step of public disagreement over this issue, despite City Hall's insistence that the case against the building had been closed for nine years. Roberta Brandes Gratz, a commission member, said in a letter to \"The New York Times\", \"Neither I as an individual commissioner nor the current commission as a whole has rendered a 'professional judgment' on whether there should be a hearing or a designation.\" In addition, telephone interviews conducted by \"The New York Times\" suggested that at least some of the other eleven commissioners also favored a public hearing. Yet the commission's executive director, Ronda Wist, said chairman Tierney \"is not inclined to revisit this question.\" Tierney said his principal architectural education occurred when he took an undergraduate course with Vincent Scully, now the Sterling professor emeritus of art history at Yale University. On August 14, 2005, Scully stated in a letter to Tierney:\n\nSomething rather wonderful has occurred, by which the building, rarely anyone's favorite in the past, is looking better every day ... Its own integrity, its uniqueness, the indomitable determination to make a point that produced it, are coming to the fore and are powerfully affecting the way we see it. ... It is in fact, becoming the icon it never was, one about which the city now cares a great deal.\n\nThe New York City Landmarks Commission's refusal to hold a public hearing on the building was based on a consensus reached in June 1996 by a four-member committee made up of the Rev. Thomas F. Pike, Charles Sachs, Vicki Match Suna, and Professor Sarah Bradford Landau. However, on August 18, 2005, \"The New York Times\" reported that Landau joined other former commissioners – William E. Davis, Stephen M. Raphael, Mildred F. Schmertz, along with Gene A. Norman, a former chairman, and Beverly Moss Spatt, a former chairwoman – in calling for a hearing. She wrote:\n\nHad there been such a large and broad demand for a public hearing about the building in 1996, I'm not at all sure I would have voted the way I did ... It is in the long-term interest of the commission to maintain good rapport with the preservation community. Whether the building merits designation is another issue, and should be decided by the current commission.\n\nOn December 25, 2005, \"New York Times\" architecture critic Nicolai Ouroussoff wrote:\n\nRecent landmark preservation battles in New York suggest that the civic powers-that-be insist on defending a narrow view of the past and of Modernism in particular. That became apparent during the crusade to preserve Edward Durell Stone's so-called lollipop building at 2 Columbus Circle, a landmark of late Modernism. ... As a result, the facade is being utterly revamped. ... This was an atrocious betrayal of the public trust. ... A similar debate is unfolding in Berlin, where the German government plans to demolish the 1970s Palast der Republik. ... Both 2 Columbus Circle and the Berlin building represent important moments in their cities' collective memories. The pressure to remake or raze them is arguably a form of censorship, a drive to cleanse history of anything but a strictly prescribed view of the past.\n\nIn 2008, Ouroussoff named the renovated building as one of seven buildings in New York City that should be torn down because they \"have a traumatic effect on the city.\" He also wrote:\n\nThe renovation remedies the annoying functional defects that had plagued the building for decades. But this is not the bold architectural statement that might have justified the destruction of an important piece of New York history. Poorly detailed and lacking in confidence, the project is a victory only for people who favor the safe and inoffensive and have always been squeamish about the frictions that give this city its vitality.\n\nThe redesigned building has the same massing and geometric shape as the original, but has channels carved in its exterior. The original white Vermont Marble has been replaced with a glazed terra-cotta and glass facade.\n\nAda Louise Huxtable, who had originally coined the term \"Lollipop Building\" for the original structure, wrote:\n\nTwo Columbus Circle was on the down curve of an architect who had done his best work in the 1930's ... Something has gone noticeably wrong. This is a precisely calibrated aesthetic that can be destroyed by one bad move, and that move has been the late insertion of a picture window on the restaurant floor. The client insisted and the architect resisted, and we will never know when and where the relationship fell apart – but at some point it obviously did, and so did the design ... The eternal banality of the picture window is forever with us ... Even with the building's flaws, however, criticism of the structure has been alarmingly out of proportion and flagrantly out of control.\n\nOf the newly uncovered redesign, James Gardner, architecture critic for the \"New York Sun\" wrote:\n\nSay what you want about Stone's building, it was indubitably a landmark; the best that can be said for its replacement is that, if we're lucky, no one will ever notice it ... A thought occurs that might help us out of our newfangled mess: Assuming that what was done to the interior is what needed to be done all along, it might be relatively easy – not now of course, but after a decent interval of, say, five years – to restore the original façade.\n\nFrancis Morrone, also of the \"Sun\", wrote:\n\nThe new façade ... uses glass bands, or \"cuts,\" rather than conventionally patterned fenestration, across a plane of ceramic tiles glazed so as to change color subtly when viewed in different light conditions. For me, I am sorry to say, it's all scaleless. Where Stone's original building read as neatly scaled to its setting, Mr. Cloepfil's redesign reads as a piece of abstract sculpture that, at building scale, seems all wrong.\n\nPaul Goldberger praised the new building's \"functional, logical, and pleasant\" interior in a review in \"The New Yorker\", but wrote:\n\nUltimately, Cloepfil has been trapped between paying homage to a legendary building and making something of his own. As a result, if you knew the old building, it is nearly impossible to get it out of your mind when you look at the new one. And, if you've never seen Columbus Circle before, you probably won't be satisfied, either: the building's proportions and composition seem just as odd and awkward as they ever did.\n\nWitold Rybczynski wrote in Slate that the new design:\n\nfeels like an alien presence ... Slots appear at random, and a continuous ribbon of fritted glass zigzags down the building, graphic effects that belong more to the packaging of consumer products than to architecture. At the base, several of Stone's original Venetian columns are preserved behind murky glass like body parts in formaldehyde. As for the glazed terra-cotta tiles of the exterior, they are dull and lifeless and make even the slick steel-and-glass facade of the Time-Warner Center next door look lively. The new Museum of Arts and Design is artsy and designy, but it is not good architecture, and it makes me miss Stone's winsome palazzo all the more.\n\nPulitzer Prize-winning critic, Justin Davidson, said:\n\nThis version won't satisfy those who thought it should never have been touched, and it's not bold enough to overpower their arguments—or, I suspect, to turn the Museum of Arts and Design into an essential destination.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2234364", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234364", "title": "Richard Verreau", "text": "Richard Verreau\n\nRichard Verreau, (January 1, 1926 – July 6, 2005) was a French-Canadian operatic tenor, particularly associated with the French and Italian repertories.\n\nBorn Richard Verreault, in Chateau-Richer, near Québec City, he began singing as a child in church choir. He studied at the Laval University with Émile Larochelle. In 1949, on a Quebec government scholarship, he went to Paris and studied with Raoul Jobin. He made his debut at the Opéra de Lyon in 1951, where he sang the lead tenor roles in \"Lakmé\", \"Manon\", \"Mireille\", and \"Les pêcheurs de perles\".\n\nIn Europe, Verreau performed in Belgium, Italy, Austria, and even Russia (then the USSR). He made his debut at the Royal Opera House in London, as the Duke in \"Rigoletto\", in 1957, other roles there included: Alfredo in \"La traviata\", Rodolfo in \"La bohème\", Pinkerton in \"Madama Butterfly\".\n\nBack in North America, he appeared regularly with the Opera Guild of Montréal and the Théâtre lyrique de Nouvelle-France. He made his debut at the New York City Opera in 1956, as Wilhelm Meister in \"Mignon\", followed by his debut at the Metropolitan Opera as \"Faust\", in 1963. He appeared at the San Francisco Opera, as Roméo in \"Roméo et Juliette\".\n\nHe also performed as soloist with the Montreal Symphony Orchestra and the New York Philharmonic Orchestra.\n\nVerreau was praised for the velvety quality of his voice, and his warm tone, unfortunately, an unsuccessful throat surgery ended his career in 1977.\n\nIn 1998, he was made an Officer of the Order of Canada. In 2000, he was made an Officer of the National Order of Quebec.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2234365", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234365", "title": "Goodbye Flatland", "text": "Goodbye Flatland\n\nGoodbye Flatland is a 2003 album by Canadian alternative rock band 54-40.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2234366", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234366", "title": "Alta Flights", "text": "Alta Flights\n\nAlta Flights was a charter airline based in Edmonton, Alberta, Canada. It operated regional passenger and cargo charters throughout Canada and the United States. Its main base was Edmonton International Airport, with hubs at Edmonton City Centre Airport and at Calgary International Airport.\n\nThe airline was established and started operations in 1986 as Alberta Express. It started scheduled services on 19 November 2001. Scheduled services were suspended on 1 January 2006. It was wholly owned by Telford Resources and has 105 employees. As of 1 October 2014, Alta Flights became part of Sunwest Aviation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2234374", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234374", "title": "Nevada State Route 207", "text": "Nevada State Route 207\n\nState Route 207 (SR 207) is a state highway in western Douglas County, Nevada, United States. Commonly known as the Kingsbury Grade, it is one of three Nevada highways that connects the western edge of the state to the Lake Tahoe region through the Carson Range. The route was part of State Route 19 prior to 1976.\n\nSR 207 begins at a junction with U.S. Route 50 in Stateline, less than from the California state line near the southern shores of Lake Tahoe. From there, the route heads eastward on an uphill climb through the Kingsbury area to travel through Daggett Pass (elevation ).\n\nAfter exiting the pass, SR 207 continues its trek eastward through Toiyabe National Forest lands. It goes through several switchbacks, eventually turning southward as it descends the mountains. The road goes down an escarpment to the Carson Valley floor. SR 207 comes to an end at its junction with Foothill Road (SR 206), at the site of Mottsville west of Gardnerville.\n\nA road connecting Lake Tahoe to the Carson Valley, situated in the approximate location of today's SR 207, appears on Nevada state maps as early as 1919. By 1929, this unimproved road was included in the state highway system as the northwestern end of the former SR 19, a longer route stretching from Lake Tahoe through Minden and south to the California state line near Holbrook. This section of the former SR 19 was long, about of which comprised the Kingsbury Grade portion of highway. SR 19 through the mountains remained unimproved for many years; the route was not paved until 1967. By 1968, the eastern end of the Kingsbury Grade was moved southwards to line up with what is now Mottsville Lane, mirroring the approximately alignment of the present highway.\n\nFollowing the realignment, the Kingsbury Grade section of SR 19 was not altered until the 1976 renumbering of Nevada's state highway system on July 1, 1976. In that process, this portion of SR 19 was assigned to the new SR 207. This change was first seen on state highway maps in 1978. Also included in the new SR 207 was the section of Mottsville Lane which connects Kingsbury Grade to SR 88, making SR 207 about long; however, this section appears to have been removed from the route by 1983. The route has been largely unchanged since.\n\n"}
{"id": "2234377", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234377", "title": "The Carol Duvall Show", "text": "The Carol Duvall Show\n\nThe Carol Duvall Show is an arts and crafts show which aired on the HGTV cable channel from 1994 to 2005 hosted by Carol Duvall. It was also broadcast on the DIY Network from 2005 until late-2009. Recordings of segments from the show can be viewed on their website.\n\nThe show is devoted to demonstrating and teaching a wide variety of crafts from very basic \"cut and glue\" projects to intricate polymer clay creations. Duvall's program was one of the original offerings on the newly founded Home & Garden Television network in 1994, and it has remained one of the lifestyle network's most popular shows throughout its 12-year run. She introduced many polymer clay artists to the community including Judy Belcher, Maureen Carlson, Kim Cavender, Katherine Dewey, Emi Fukushima, Syndee Holt, Debbie Jackson, Donna Kato, Barbara McGuire, Ann Mitchell, Karen Mitchell, Becky Meverden, Lisa Pavelka, Gail Ritchey, Nan Roche, Michelle Ross, and Bob Wiley who have inspired countless polymer enthusiasts.\n\nThe show also featured interviews with crafters and fine artists - painters, sculptors, glass-blowers, etc. with footage of them at work in their studios.\n\nThe cancellation of the show on HGTV caused dismay among many of her fans; whose protests might have influenced the decision to continue broadcasting it on the DIY Network (owned by the same parent company Scripps Networks).\n\n"}
{"id": "2234378", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234378", "title": "Nadir of American race relations", "text": "Nadir of American race relations\n\nAccording to historian Rayford Logan, the nadir of American race relations was the period in the history of the United States from the end of Reconstruction in 1877 through the early 20th century, when racism in the country was worse than in any other period in the nation's history. During this period, African Americans lost many civil rights gained during Reconstruction. Anti-black violence, lynchings, segregation, legal racial discrimination, and expressions of white supremacy increased.\n\nLogan coined the phrase in his 1954 book \"The Negro in American Life and Thought: The Nadir, 1877–1901\". Logan tried to determine the year when \"the Negro's status in American society\" reached its lowest point. He argued for 1901, suggesting that relations improved after that; however, others such as John Hope Franklin and Henry Arthur Callis, argued for dates as late as 1923.\n\nThe term continues to be used, most notably in books by James Loewen, but it is also used by other scholars. Loewen chooses later dates, arguing that the post-Reconstruction era was in fact one of widespread hope for racial equity due to idealistic Northern support for civil rights. In Loewen's view the true nadir only began when Northern Republicans ceased supporting Southern blacks' rights around 1890, and it lasted until the Second World War. This period followed the financial Panic of 1873 and a continuing decline in cotton prices. It overlapped with both the Gilded Age and the Progressive Era, and was characterized by the nationwide sundown town phenomenon.\n\nLogan's focus was exclusively on African Americans in the American South. But the time period which he identified also represents the worst period of anti-Chinese discrimination, harassment, and violence on the west coast of the U.S. (and Canada), particularly after the Chinese Exclusion Act of 1882.\n\nIn the early part of the 20th century, some white historians put forth the concept of Reconstruction as a tragic period, when Republicans motivated by revenge and profit used troops to force Southerners to accept corrupt governments run by unscrupulous Northerners and unqualified blacks. Such scholars generally dismissed the idea that blacks could ever be capable of governing.\n\nNotable proponents of this view were referred to as the Dunning School, named after influential Columbia historian William Archibald Dunning. Another Columbia professor, John Burgess, famously wrote that \"black skin means membership in a race of men which has never of itself... created any civilization of any kind.\"\n\nThe Dunning School's view of Reconstruction held sway for years. It was represented in D. W. Griffith's popular movie \"The Birth of a Nation\" (1915) and to some extent in Margaret Mitchell's novel \"Gone with the Wind\" (1934). More recent historians of the period have rejected many of the Dunning School's conclusions, and offer a different assessment.\n\nToday's consensus regards Reconstruction as a time of idealism and hope, with some practical achievements. The Radical Republicans who passed the Fourteenth and Fifteenth Amendments were, for the most part, motivated by a desire to help freedmen. African-American historian W. E. B. Du Bois put this view forward in 1910, and later historians Kenneth Stampp and Eric Foner expanded it. The Republican Reconstruction governments had their share of corruption, but they benefited many whites, and were no more corrupt than Democratic governments or, indeed, Northern Republican governments.\n\nFurthermore, the Reconstruction governments established public education and social welfare institutions for the first time, improving education for both blacks and whites, and tried to improve social conditions for the many left in poverty after the long war. No Reconstruction state government was dominated by blacks; in fact, blacks did not attain a level of representation equal to their population in any state.\n\nFor several years after the war, the federal government, pushed by Northern opinion, showed itself willing to intervene to protect the rights of black Americans. There were limits, however, to Republican efforts on behalf of blacks: in Washington, a proposal of land reform made by the Freedmen's Bureau which would have granted blacks plots on the plantation land (forty acres and a mule) they worked never came to pass. In the South, many former Confederates were stripped of the right to vote, but they resisted Reconstruction with violence and intimidation. James Loewen notes that between 1865 and 1867, when white Democrats controlled the government, whites murdered an average of one black person every day in Hinds County, Mississippi. Black schools were especially targeted: school buildings were frequently burned and teachers were flogged and occasionally murdered. The postwar terrorist group the Ku Klux Klan (KKK) acted with significant local support, attacking freedmen and their white allies; the group was largely suppressed by federal efforts under the Enforcement Acts of 1870–71, but did not disappear and had a resurgence in the early twentieth century.\n\nDespite these failures, however, blacks continued to vote and attend schools. Literacy soared, and many African-Americans were elected to local and statewide offices, with several serving in Congress. Because of the black community's commitment to education, the majority of blacks were literate by 1900.\nContinued violence in the South, especially heated around electoral campaigns, sapped Northern intentions. More significantly, after the long years and losses of the Civil War, Northerners had lost heart for the massive commitment of money and arms that would have been required to stifle the white insurgency. The financial panic of 1873 disrupted the economy nationwide, causing more difficulties. The white insurgency took on new life ten years after the war. Conservative white Democrats waged an increasingly violent campaign, with the Colfax and Coushatta Massacres in Louisiana in 1873 as signs. The next year saw the formation of paramilitary groups, such as the White League in Louisiana (1874) and Red Shirts in Mississippi and the Carolinas, that worked openly to turn Republicans out of office, disrupt black organizing, and intimidate and suppress black voting. They invited press coverage. One historian described them as \"the military arm of the Democratic Party.\"\n\nIn 1874, in a continuation of the disputed gubernatorial election of 1872, thousands of White League militiamen fought against New Orleans police and Louisiana state militia and won. They turned out the Republican governor and installed the Democrat Samuel D. McEnery, took over the capitol, state house and armory for a few days, and then retreated in the face of Federal troops. This was known as the \"Battle of Liberty Place\".\n\nNortherners waffled and finally capitulated to the South, giving up on being able to control election violence. Abolitionist leaders like Horace Greeley began to ally themselves with Democrats in attacking Reconstruction governments. By 1875, there was a Democratic majority in the House of Representatives. President Ulysses S. Grant, who as a general had led the Union to victory in the Civil War, initially refused to send troops to Mississippi in 1875 when the governor of the state asked him to. Violence surrounded the presidential election of 1876 in many areas, beginning a trend. After Grant, it would be many years before any President would do anything to extend the protection of the law to black people.\n\nAs noted above, white paramilitary forces contributed to whites' taking over power in the late 1870s. A brief coalition of populists took over in some states, but conservative Democrats had returned to power after the 1880s. From 1890 to 1908, they proceeded to pass legislation and constitutional amendments to disenfranchise most blacks and many poor whites, with Mississippi and Louisiana creating new state constitutions in 1890 and 1895 respectively, to disenfranchise African Americans. Democrats used a combination of restrictions on voter registration and voting methods, such as poll taxes, literacy and residency requirements, and ballot box changes. The main push came from elite Democrats in the Solid South, where blacks were a majority of voters. The elite Democrats also acted to disenfranchise poor whites. African Americans were an absolute majority of the population in Louisiana, Mississippi and South Carolina, and represented more than 40% of the population in four other former Confederate states. Accordingly, many whites perceived African Americans as a major political threat, because in free and fair elections, they would hold the balance of power in a majority of the South. South Carolina U.S. Senator Ben Tillman proudly proclaimed in 1900, \"We have done our level best [to prevent blacks from voting]... we have scratched our heads to find out how we could eliminate the last one of them. We stuffed ballot boxes. We shot them. We are not ashamed of it.\"\n\nConservative white Democratic governments passed Jim Crow legislation, creating a system of legal racial segregation in public and private facilities. Blacks were separated in schools and the few hospitals, were restricted in seating on trains, and had to use separate sections in some restaurants and public transportation systems. They were often barred from some stores, or forbidden to use lunchrooms, restrooms and fitting rooms. Because they could not vote, they could not serve on juries, which meant they had little if any legal recourse in the system. Between 1889 and 1922, as political disenfranchisement and segregation were being established, the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP) calculates lynchings reached their worst level in history. Almost 3,500 people fell victim to lynching, almost all of them black men.\n\nHistorian James Loewen notes that lynching emphasized the powerlessness of blacks: \"the defining characteristic of a lynching is that the murder takes place in public, so everyone knows who did it, yet the crime goes unpunished.\" Ostensibly prompted by black attacks or threats to white women, scholars and journalists have shown that lynchings arose out of economic competition and desire by competing whites for social control. African American civil rights activist Ida B. Wells-Barnett conducted one of the first systematic studies of the subject. She found blacks were \"lynched for anything or nothing\" – for wife-beating, stealing hogs, being \"saucy to white people\", sleeping with a consenting white woman – for being in the wrong place at the wrong time. It was a system of social terrorism.\n\nBlacks who were economically successful faced reprisals or sanctions. When Richard Wright tried to train to become an optometrist and lens-grinder, the other men in the shop threatened him until he was forced to leave. In 1911 blacks were barred from participating in the Kentucky Derby because African Americans won more than half of the first twenty-eight races. Through violence and legal restrictions, whites often prevented blacks from working as common laborers, much less as skilled artisans or in the professions. Under such conditions, even the most ambitious and talented black people found it extremely difficult to advance.\n\nThis situation called into question the views of Booker T. Washington, the most prominent black leader during the early part of the nadir. He had argued that black people could better themselves by hard work and thrift. He believed they had to master basic work before going on to college careers and professional aspirations. Washington believed his programs trained blacks for the lives they were likely to lead and the jobs they could get in the South.\n\nHowever, as W. E. B. Du Bois pointed out,\n\nit is utterly impossible, under modern competitive methods, for working men and property-owners to defend their rights and exist without the right of suffrage. Washington had always (though often clandestinely) supported the right of black suffrage, and had fought against disfranchisement laws in Georgia, Louisiana, and other Southern states. This included secretive funding of litigation resulting in \"Giles v. Harris\", 189 U.S. 475 (1903), which lost due to Supreme Court reluctance to interfere with states' rights.\n\nMany blacks voted with their feet and left the South to seek better conditions. In 1879, Logan notes, \"some 40,000 Negroes virtually stampeded from Mississippi, Louisiana, Alabama, and Georgia for the Midwest.\" More significantly, beginning about 1915, many blacks moved to Northern cities in what became known as the Great Migration. Through the 1930s, more than 1.5 million blacks would leave the South for lives in the North, seeking work and the chance to escape lynchings and legal segregation. While they faced difficulties, overall they had better chances in the North. They had to make great cultural changes, as most went from rural areas to major industrial cities, and had to adjust from being rural workers to being urban workers. As an example, in its years of expansion, the Pennsylvania Railroad recruited tens of thousands of workers from the South. In the South, alarmed whites, worried that their labor force was leaving, often tried to block black migration.\n\nDuring the nadir, Northern areas struggled with upheaval and hostility. In the Midwest and West, many towns posted \"sundown\" warnings, threatening to kill African Americans who remained overnight. These \"Sundown\" towns also expelled African-Americans who had settled in those towns during Reconstruction and before. Monuments to Confederate War dead were erected across the nation – in Montana, for example.\n\nBlack housing was often segregated in the North. There was competition for jobs and housing as blacks entered cities which were also the destination of millions of immigrants from eastern and southern Europe. As more blacks moved north, they encountered racism where they had to battle over territory, often against ethnic Irish, who were defending their power base. In some regions, blacks could not serve on juries. Blackface shows, in which whites dressed as blacks portrayed African Americans as ignorant clowns, were popular in North and South. The Supreme Court reflected conservative tendencies and did not overrule Southern constitutional changes resulting in disfranchisement. In 1896, the Court ruled in \"Plessy v. Ferguson\" that \"separate but equal\" facilities for blacks were constitutional; the Court was made up almost entirely of Northerners. However, equal facilities were rarely provided, as there was no state or federal legislation requiring them. It would not be until 58 years later, with Brown v. Board of Education (1954), that the Court recognized its 1896 error.\n\nWhile there were critics in the scientific community such as Franz Boas, eugenics and scientific racism were promoted in academia by scientists Lothrop Stoddard and Madison Grant, who argued \"scientific evidence\" for the racial superiority of whites and thereby worked to justify racial segregation and second-class citizenship for blacks.\n\nNumerous blacks had voted for Democrat Woodrow Wilson in the 1912 election, based on his promise to work for them. Instead, he segregated government workplaces and employment in some agencies. The first feature-length film, \"The Birth of a Nation\" (1915), which celebrated the original Ku Klux Klan, was shown at the White House to President Wilson and his cabinet members.\n\n\"The Birth of a Nation\" resulted in the rebirth of the Klan, which in the 1920s had more power and influence than the original Klan ever did. In 1924, the Klan had four million members. It also controlled the governorship and a majority of the state legislature in Indiana, and exerted a powerful political influence in Arkansas, Oklahoma, California, Georgia, Oregon, and Texas.\n\nIn the years during and after World War I there were great social tensions in the nation. In addition to the Great Migration and immigration from Europe, African-American Army veterans, newly demobilized, sought jobs, and as trained soldiers, were less likely to acquiesce to discrimination. Mass attacks on blacks that developed out of strikes and economic competition occurred in Houston, Philadelphia, and East St. Louis in 1917.\n\nIn 1919 there were riots in several major cities, so many so that the summer of 1919 is known as Red Summer. The Chicago Race Riot of 1919 erupted into mob violence for several days. It left 15 whites and 23 blacks dead, over 500 injured and more than 1,000 homeless. An investigation found that ethnic Irish, who had established their own power base earlier on the South Side, were heavily implicated in the riots. The 1921 Tulsa Race Riot in Tulsa, Oklahoma, was even more deadly; white mobs invaded and burned the Greenwood district of Tulsa; 1,256 homes were destroyed and 39 people (26 black, 13 white) were confirmed killed, although recent investigations suggest that the number of black deaths could be considerably higher.\n\nBlack literacy levels, which rose during Reconstruction, continued to increase through this period. The NAACP was established in 1909, and by 1920 the group won a few important anti-discrimination lawsuits. African Americans, such as Du Bois and Wells-Barnett, continued the tradition of advocacy, organizing, and journalism which helped spur abolitionism, and also developed new tactics that helped to spur the Civil Rights Movement of the 1950s and 1960s. The Harlem Renaissance and the popularity of jazz music during the early part of the 20th century made many Americans more aware of black culture and more accepting of black celebrities.\n\nOverall, however, the nadir was a disaster, certainly for black people and arguably for whites as well. Foner points out:\n\n...by the early twentieth century [racism] had become more deeply embedded in the nation's culture and politics than at any time since the beginning of the antislavery crusade and perhaps in our nation's entire history.\n\nSimilarly, Loewen argues that the family instability and crime which many sociologists have found in black communities can be traced, not to slavery, but to the nadir and its aftermath.\n\nFoner noted that \"none of Reconstruction's black officials created a family political dynasty\" and concluded that the nadir \"aborted the development of the South's black political leadership.\"\n\n\n\nAdditional Resources\n"}
{"id": "2234380", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234380", "title": "Rina Uchiyama", "text": "Rina Uchiyama\n\nUchiyama was first discovered in her hometown in Kanagawa Prefecture by the talent agency Sweet Power at the age of 15. She was signed up by the agency, and in 1998, moved to Tokyo to launch her career in the entertainment industry.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2234382", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234382", "title": "Josephine Butler College, Durham", "text": "Josephine Butler College, Durham\n\nJosephine Butler College is a college at Durham University. It is located at the Howlands Farm site next to residences of Stephenson College and John Snow College. In the centre of the college is a grass-covered hill, called \"The Mound.\"\n\nIt is a fully self-catered college of the University with facilities far more modern than any of the existing undergraduate colleges in Durham (the newest of which was opened in 1972) and all rooms are en-suite. The college bar is the largest of all the college bars in Durham, and has extensive leisure facilities, and a library area during the day.\n\nOn 14 December 2005, it was announced that the college had been named after Josephine Butler, a Victorian feminist campaigner and a grand-niece of the 2nd Earl Grey, after whom Grey College was named.\n\nThe college arms are blazoned as \"Gules on a chevron Or charged with a Cross formy, with cotises invected, between in chief two lions Argent and in base an open book charged with two covered cups\". The arms represent in large the heritage of Josephine Butler, with the lion argent being a symbol of the Grey family, of which Earl Grey (whom Grey College is named after) was Josephine Butler's uncle. Further the covered cups on the pages of the books are a heraldic symbol of the Butler family.\n\nThe college's motto is \"\"Comme je trouve\"\", which can be translated to \"as I find\" and is intended to mean 'we take life as we find it and make of it the best we can'.\n\nThe Howlands building is shared with Butler's neighbouring college, Stephenson College. Howlands contains the college gym, laundry and music room. A large multi-purpose hall is also contained in the building that is used to host formal dinners and paves the way for some sports activities, where badminton and table tennis clubs practise.\n\nThe Butler building acts as the main social building of the college and mainly contains the college bar and some other rooms such as the college offices, porters lodge and reception, in addition to the JCR, the MCR, TV room, college library lounge, IT suite, and study spaces.\n\nButler is placed around the \"Mound\", which stands between Butler and Stephenson College. The college has four separate self-contained accommodation blocks; Kirknewton, Dilston, Milfield, Wooler, as well as a small fifth block called Elm. Each building is divided up into 6 bed-roomed flats, with en-suite facilities. The main four accommodation blocks are all named after locations related to Josephine Butler's life: she was born in Milfield, spent a lot of her early life in Dilston, died in Wooler and is buried in Kirknewton.\n\nIn July 2017 Josephine Butler College accommodation was ranked fourth best student halls in the UK, based on analysis of over 10,000 student and graduate reviews.\n\nThe college has its own theatre company, Suffragette Theatre Company, as well as a Film Society and a Music Society. The JCR governs college societies.\n\nJosephine Butler College Cricket Club (JBCCC) is the college's cricket team. As of 2018 the club consists of two outdoor sides, the A team and the Development team, and two indoor teams, an A and B team. Indoor cricket is played across the Epiphany term, and in the Easter term outdoor T20 cricket is played. The club won back to back indoor titles in 2014 and 2015. In 2018 they reached the final of the outdoor T20 competition. In the same year a 24-hour charity cricket match was held in the Howlands, which raised over £700 for the Glenn McGrath Foundation. \n\nButler College Boat Club (BCBC) is the boat club of Josephine Butler College, at Durham University. The club is responsible for hosting its own inter-collegiate head race, Butler Head. In 2015 a BCBC VIII beat 3 other boats including the University of Leeds to get to the final of Durham Regatta. The biggest success came to the boat club in the 2016 Durham Regatta season where the 2015 BCBC VIII took the title of Durham Regatta by winning the Alderman Thurlow Trophy. \n\nSuffragette Theatre Company (STC), formerly known as the Society of Theatrical Arts at Butler (STAB), is the Drama society for Josephine Butler College. The Theatre Company accepts members from in and outside of the college, and focuses on politically and socially charged productions, such as its production of 'The Tempest' at the Gala Theatre in June 2019. The society is primarily known in college for its formal that is held in Michaelmas term every year, involving a Murder Mystery style format.\n\nThe head of College is titled the Principal. There has been one Principal since the college's foundation in 2006.\n\n"}
{"id": "2234383", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234383", "title": "Malapterurus electricus", "text": "Malapterurus electricus\n\nMalapterurus electricus is a species of electric catfish that occurs widely in Africa. This species grows to a length of SL. This species is important for subsistence fisheries and as a gamefish. This is also the most common of the electric catfish to appear in the pet trade. The electric catfish has been found in the natural waters of Hong Kong as an introduced species. \n\n\"Malapterurus electricus\" is sometimes encountered in aquarium supply stores. It can reach a maximum length of over 1 meter in the wild, but has an average size of 12 inches in the aquarium. It is quite hardy and greedily accepts most foods, although some experimentation may be required to find the best food. The only other animals that are compatible with this species are snails, which they will ignore. A minimum aquarium size of 55 gallons is required, with bogwood or pieces of PVC pipe. They are active burrowers and will often remove the gravel from under their favorite hiding spot. A minimum temperature of 75 degrees Fahrenheit is necessary. It is illegal to possess any species of electric catfish for personal or commercial use in Florida.\n\n"}
{"id": "2234388", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234388", "title": "July 20 (Eastern Orthodox liturgics)", "text": "July 20 (Eastern Orthodox liturgics)\n\nJuly 19 - Eastern Orthodox Church calendar - July 21\n\nAll fixed commemorations below are celebrated on August 2 by Old Calendar.\n\nFor July 20th, Orthodox Churches on the Old Calendar commemorate the Saints listed on July 7.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nGreek Sources\nRussian Sources\n"}
{"id": "2234399", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234399", "title": "Mars Audiac Quintet", "text": "Mars Audiac Quintet\n\nMars Audiac Quintet is the third studio album by English-French rock band Stereolab. It was released on 2 August 1994 in the United States by Elektra Records and on 8 August 1994 in the United Kingdom by Duophonic Records. During the recording of the album, guitarist Sean O'Hagan left as a full-time member to tour with the High Llamas, while keyboardist Katharine Gifford was added. \"Mars Audiac Quartet\" reached number 16 on the UK Albums Chart.\n\nThe song \"International Colouring Contest\" is a tribute to Lucia Pamela, and samples her voice in the intro.\n\n\"Pitchfork\" ranked \"Mars Audiac Quintet\" the 78th best album of the 1990s.\n\nThe American indie rock band Transona Five took their name from the title of the third track on the album.\n\nCredits for \"Mars Audiac Quintet\" adapted from album liner notes.\n\nStereolab\n\nAdditional musicians\nProduction\n\nArtwork and design\n\nManagement\n"}
{"id": "2234403", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234403", "title": "Movistar Team (men's team)", "text": "Movistar Team (men's team)\n\nMovistar Team () is a professional road bicycle racing team which participates at UCI WorldTeam level and has achieved thirteen general classification (GC) victories in Grand Tours. The title sponsor is the Spanish mobile telephone company Telefónica, with the team riding under the name of the company's brand \"Movistar\".\n\nThe team was formed as \"Reynolds\", led by Ángel Arroyo and later by Pedro Delgado, who won a Tour de France and a Vuelta a España, and was subsequently sponsored by \"Banesto\", under which name the team included 5-time Tour de France winner Miguel Indurain and Alex Zülle, twice winner of the Vuelta a España. The team offices are in Egüés, a municipality of Navarre, Spain, in the metropolitan area of Pamplona. A later sponsor was Caisse d'Epargne, a French semi-cooperative banking group.\n\nHaving previously used Pinarello bikes, the team rode Canyon frames in 2014, with Campagnolo parts. Since 2008, Eusebio Unzué has been the manager of the team after the long running manager, José Miguel Echavarri, retired from the sport. The directeurs sportifs of the team are José Vicente García, Pablo Lastras, José Luis Jaimerena, José Luis Arrieta and Max Sciandri.\n\nThe team began in 1980 as the Reynolds team which José Miguel Echavarri as the directeur sportif. In 1982 signed a young Pedro Delgado who acted as a domestique for team leader Ángel Arroyo during the 1982 Vuelta a España. Arroyo won the Vuelta after his team controlled the race after he took the lead. But 48 hours after his Vuelta win, the results of a positive test were made known for Methylphenidate (Ritalin). Arroyo and the Reynolds team denied that Arroyo doped and asked for a B-analysis which confirmed the positive A-sample. Arroyo became the first winner of the Vuelta a España to be disqualified. Delgado changed teams in 1985 but returned to Reynolds in 1988 where he won the 1988 Tour de France and then the 1989 Vuelta a España with the team. In 1984, Miguel Indurain made his professional debut with the team.\n\nIn 1990, Spanish bank Banesto took over as the main sponsor of the team from Reynolds. Delgado was the team leader for the Tour de France while Miguel Indurain and Julián Gorospe were the leaders for the week long stage races. When Gorospe took the lead in that year's Vuelta, the team went behind him in a bid to win the race. However Gorospe lost the leader's jersey and Delgado took over the leadership but could not regain the time that Italian Marco Giovannetti had gained and ended the race second overall behind Giovannetti. Over the following years, Indurain rose to become a dominator of stage races winning five editions of the Tour de France and two editions of the Giro d'Italia. Delgado was the team leader for the Vuelta. The team also achieved success with Jean-François Bernard who won the 1992 edition of Paris–Nice with the team. The team won the Vuelta again in 1998 with Abraham Olano. During this time Alex Zülle joined the team and finished the 1999 Tour de France second overall while legendary climber José María Jiménez performed in the Vuelta a España. The team became known as iBanesto.com in the final years of the sponsorship of the Banesto bank.\n\nIn 2004, Illes Balears, the Balearic Island's Tourism Board, became the team's principal sponsor, the team's name was Illes Balears-Banesto until 2005. Caisse d'Epargne took over from Banesto as the second sponsor in the 2005 season, the team was then known as Illes Balears-Caisse d'Epargne. Caisse d'Epargne then became the main sponsor in 2006 reversing the title sponsor ordering with the name, Caisse d'Epargne-Illes Balears.\n\nThe team fielded a number of strong contenders in the 2005 Tour de France including Francisco Mancebo (former National Champion of Spain), Alejandro Valverde, Vladimir Karpets and sprinter Isaac Gálvez. Mancebo produced the best results finishing fourth overall in the General Classification.\n\nCaisse d'Epargne-Illes Balears finished fifth overall (56 minutes, 53 seconds behind Team T-Mobile) in the Team Classification at the 2006 Tour de France. Individually, the team's top rider, Óscar Pereiro, finished in second place. The Tour victory of Phonak rider Floyd Landis was almost immediately called into question, after a urine sample taken after his Stage 17 win twice tested positive for banned synthetic testosterone as well as a ratio of testosterone to epitestosterone nearly three times the limit allowed by World Anti-Doping Agency rules.\n\nAfter hearing of the positive \"A\" test, Pereiro stated that it was only an initial, unconfirmed result and he would not yet consider Landis guilty or himself the Tour winner. \"I have too much respect for Landis to do otherwise\", he said. After hearing that the Landis \"B\" test also came back positive, Pereiro stated that he now considers himself Tour champion and the Landis scandal should not diminish his own achievement. \"Right now I feel like the winner of the Tour de France\", Pereiro said. \"It's a victory for the whole team.\" After nearly two years of appeals, Pereiro was officially upgraded to Tour champion for 2006.\n\nOn 31 May 2010, the Court of Arbitration for Sport upheld the appeals from WADA and the UCI regarding the suspension of Alejandro Valverde for his implication in the Operación Puerto doping case. Valverde was banned for two years, starting 1 January 2010 and after serving the two-year suspension returned to competition in 2012 riding for the Movistar Team.\n\nThe 2011 season proved to be a transitional one for the team, with their first victory coming as a single stage win in the Tour Down Under, courtesy of Francisco Jose Ventoso. The team found success with stage wins in the Volta a Catalunya and Tour of the Basque Country. The team also won two stages of the Giro d'Italia: Ventoso won stage 6 and Vasil Kiryienka won stage 20. The team's final Grand Tour win came courtesy of Rui Costa in the Tour de France.\n\nThe 2012 season saw the team re-establish itself as one of the major general classification contenders. The return of Valverde almost immediately brought the team success with a stage win in the Tour Down Under, followed by the overall win of the Vuelta a Andalucía as well as a stage win. Colombian new recruit Nairo Quintana also brought the team overall victory at the Vuelta a Murcia. The team scored multiple overall classification victories; Quintana claimed the Route du Sud, Rui Costa the Tour de Suisse, Javier Moreno the Vuelta a Castilla y León and finally Beñat Intxausti won the Vuelta a Asturias. The team also won stages in all three Grand Tours.\n\nThe 2013 season closely followed the previous years, Valverde scored multiple early season results with the Trofeo Serra de Tramuntana and an overall win in the Vuelta a Andalucía. Quintana further reinforced his potential as a Grand Tour GC rider with the overall win in the Tour of the Basque Country as well as claiming second place in the Tour de France, taking the King of the Mountains in addition to the Young rider classification. He further reinforced his reputation as a force to be reckoned with, with an overall win in the Vuelta a Burgos. Intxausti got the team's final overall win of the year and Costa won the UCI World Road Race championships. For the 2014 season the team confirmed that they would shift from Pinarello bikes to Canyon Bicycles.\n\nFor 2014, the team adopted a 'divide and conquer' based tactic for the season's Grand Tours; first sending Quintana to the Giro, Valverde to the Tour and then finally both riders to the Vuelta. Quintana achieved the team's first victory - winning stage 4 of the Tour de San Luis as well as the overall classification, Adriano Malori also won the individual time trial stage. Once again Valverde won the Vuelta a Andalucía as well as the Vuelta a Murcia, Roma Maxima, GP Miguel Indurain and La Flèche Wallonne. In May, Quintana won the team's first Grand Tour since Valverde's 2009 Vuelta victory, the 2014 Giro d'Italia. As with the previous season, Quintana defended his Vuelta a Burgos title winning it for the second straight year.\n\nIn August 2014, the team announced the signing of Marc Soler () and Rubén Fernández () on a 2-year contract.\n\nAt the 2015 Tour de France, the team finished first in the teams classification, and the two top men of the team, Nairo Quintana and Alejandro Valverde finished second and third in the general classification, respectively, with Quintana also winning the white jersey as best young rider, and finishing second in the king of the mountains classification.\n\nDuring the 2016 Tour, the team finished first in the teams classification by 8' 14\" over Team Sky. Nairo Quintana made the podium by finishing third overall in the general classification standings and Ion Izagirre claimed victory on stage 20. Later during the 2016 Vuelta a España, Quintana won stage 10 and the overall. The team concluded the year with their fourth win in the team ranking of 2016 UCI World Tour.\n\nIn 2019, Richard Carapaz won the Giro d'Italia, and the team won the team classification in all three Grand Tours. The team's season is captured in a documentary series, \"\", available on Netflix.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2234410", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234410", "title": "William Lawrence (Ohio Democrat)", "text": "William Lawrence (Ohio Democrat)\n\nWilliam Lawrence (September 2, 1814 – September 8, 1895) was a member of the United States House of Representatives from the 17th District of Ohio. Lawrence was born in Washington, Guernsey County, Ohio. He graduated from Jefferson College (now Washington & Jefferson College) in Canonsburg, Pennsylvania in 1835.\n\nAfter farming for a few years, Lawrence was elected to the Ohio House of Representatives in 1843. He was a Presidential elector in 1848 for Cass/Butler. He was a delegate to the Ohio State constitutional convention in 1851. From 1856 to 1857, he served in the Ohio Senate.\n\nOn March 4, 1857, William Lawrence (D) was inaugurated as the Representative from the 17th Congressional District of Ohio to the 35th U.S. Congress. Lawrence served only in this Congress, as he was elected only to one term in office. Upon leaving Congress, Lawrence served again in the Ohio Senate (in 1867, 1885, and 1886). He also served as president of the board of directors of the Ohio Penitentiary.\n\nWilliam Lawrence died in Old Washington, Ohio on September 8, 1895, and is interred at the Washington Cemetery.\n\nLawrence was father of Ohio Attorney General James Lawrence.\n"}
{"id": "2234414", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234414", "title": "Monkey and hunter", "text": "Monkey and hunter\n\n\"The monkey and the hunter\" is a thought experiment often used to illustrate the effect of gravity on projectile motion.\n\nThe essentials of the problem are stated in many introductory guides to physics, such as Caltech's \"The Mechanical Universe\" television series and Gonick and Huffman's \"Cartoon Guide to Physics.\" In essence, the problem is as follows: A hunter with a blowgun goes out in the woods to hunt for monkeys and sees one hanging in a tree. The monkey releases its grip the instant the hunter fires his blowgun. Where should the hunter aim in order to hit the monkey?\n\nTo answer this question, recall that according to Galileo's law, all objects fall with the same constant acceleration of gravity (about 9.8 metres per second per second near the Earth's surface), regardless of the object's weight. Furthermore, horizontal motions and vertical motions are independent: gravity acts only upon an object's vertical velocity, not upon its velocity in the horizontal direction. The hunter's dart, therefore, falls with the same acceleration as the monkey.\n\nAssume for the moment that gravity was not at work. In that case, the dart would proceed in a straight-line trajectory at a constant speed (Newton's first law). Gravity causes the dart to fall away from this straight-line path, making a trajectory that is in fact a parabola. Now, consider what happens if the hunter aims directly at the monkey, and the monkey releases his grip the instant the hunter fires. Because the force of gravity accelerates the dart and the monkey equally, they fall the same distance in the same time: the monkey falls from the tree branch, and the dart falls \"the same distance\" from the straight-line path it would have taken in the absence of gravity. Therefore, \"the dart will always hit the monkey,\" no matter the initial speed of the dart, no matter the acceleration of gravity.\n\nAnother way of looking at the problem is by a transformation of the reference frame. Earlier the problem was stated in a reference frame in which the Earth is motionless. However, for very small distances on the surface of Earth the acceleration due to gravity can be considered constant to good approximation. Therefore, the same acceleration \"g\" acts upon both the dart and the monkey throughout the fall. Transform the reference frame to one that is accelerated \"upward\" by the amount \"g\" with respect to the Earth's reference frame (which is to say the acceleration of the new frame with respect to the Earth is –\"g\"). Because of Galilean equivalence, the (approximately) constant gravitational field (approximately) disappears, leaving us with only the horizontal velocity of both the dart and the monkey.\n\nIn this reference frame the hunter should aim straight at the monkey, since the monkey is stationary. Since angles are invariant under transformations of reference frames, transforming back to the Earth's reference frame the result is still that the hunter should aim straight at the monkey. While this approach has the advantage of making the results intuitively obvious, it suffers from the slight logical blemish that the laws of classical mechanics are not postulated within the theory to be invariant under transformations to non-inertial (accelerated) reference frames (see also principle of relativity).\n\n"}
{"id": "2234430", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234430", "title": "Turnover (food)", "text": "Turnover (food)\n\nA turnover is a type of pastry or bread made by placing a filling on a piece of dough, folding the dough over, sealing, and baking it. Turnovers can be sweet or savory and are often made as a sort of portable meal or dessert, similar to a sandwich. They are often eaten for breakfast.\n\nIt is common for sweet turnovers to have a fruit filling and be made with a puff pastry or shortcrust pastry dough and covered with icing; savory turnovers generally contain meat and/or vegetables and can be made with any sort of dough, though a kneaded yeast dough seems to be the most common in Western cuisines. They are usually baked, but may be fried. \n\nSavory turnovers are often sold as convenience foods in supermarkets. Savory turnovers with meat or poultry and identified as a turnover in the United States (for example, \"Beef Turnover\" or \"Cheesy Chicken Turnover\") have to meet a standard of identity or composition and should contain a certain amount of meat or poultry. \n\nA meat or vegetarian turnover may be called a \"patty\" in South Asian and Caribbean cuisine, \"e.g.\" a South Asian chicken patty, a Jamaican patty, a Haitian patty. It may be a \"pasty\" in Cornish cooking.\n\nCommon turnover fillings include fruits such as apples, peaches and cherries, meats like chicken, beef and pork, vegetables such as potatoes, broccoli and onions, and savory ingredients like cheese. Specialty versions are also found, such as wild rabbit and leek. \n\nIn the United Kingdom turnovers are usually filled with cooked apples, but any fruit can be used, as described in Mrs Beeton's Book of Household Management\n\nAnother type of turnover, a calzone, originated in Naples in the 18th Century. Traditionally made from salted bread dough, baked in an oven and is stuffed with salami, ham or vegetables, mozzarella, ricotta and Parmesan or pecorino cheese, as well as an egg.\n"}
{"id": "2234431", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234431", "title": "AlsaceExel", "text": "AlsaceExel\n\nAlsaceExel was an airline based in Strasbourg, France. It was part of the ExelAviation Group operating services from Strasbourg to regional destinations in Europe. The future of the airline is in doubt following the cessation of services by the parent company on 31 January 2005.\n\nThe airline was established in March 2004 and started operations on 28 March 2004. It is wholly owned by ExelAviation Group.\n"}
{"id": "2234434", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234434", "title": "Selection (album)", "text": "Selection (album)\n\nSelection is a 1982 EP by Canadian band 54-40. It was the band's first release, appearing on the independent label Mo-Da-Mu.\n\nAlthough now out of print, the album and its 1984 follow up \"Set the Fire\" were re-released in 1997 on the compilation album, \"\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2234438", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234438", "title": "Malapterurus minjiriya", "text": "Malapterurus minjiriya\n\nMalapterurus minjiriya is a species of electric catfish native to Burkina Faso, Ethiopia, Ghana, Mali, Nigeria and Togo. This species grows to a length of SL.\n"}
{"id": "2234443", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234443", "title": "GWR 5400 Class", "text": "GWR 5400 Class\n\nThe Great Western Railway (GWR) 5400 Class is a class of 0-6-0 pannier tank steam locomotive. They were similar in appearance to many other GWR tank engines but smaller than the ubiquitous GWR 5700 Class.\n\nThe nominally Collett-designed 5400 Class had driving wheels for greater top speed with autocoaches, and were all fitted with the required remote control gear for working the push-pull autotrains. They had a modern cab and a larger bunker. They were frequently seen on inner suburban routes from Paddington.\n\nThe 5400 class was related to the 2021 class saddle tank, designed by William Dean and built at Wolverhampton railway works. This was a light compact design with wheels, itself derived from the smaller Armstrong GWR 850 Class dating from 1874.\n\nThe class pioneer was not a new engine at all, rather it was a 1930 rebuild of 2021 tank 2080. It merely had substitute larger wheels and splashers and a larger bunker, whereas the new locos built from 1931 onwards had the rounded-edge cab as well. This cab style was to be fitted to all subsequent GWR pannier tank designs including the later derivations of the 5700 Class.\n\nDespite its success, the prototype had a short life as number 5400, lasting only two years before scrapping. It was replaced with an all-new engine with the same number. 25 locomotives were built and they were numbered 5400-5424.\n\nWithdrawal from service with BR started in 1957 and was completed in 1963. \n\nle Fleming noted that the mileages of those withdrawn between February 1957 and February 1958 were \"from 671,000 to 775,000\".\n\nThe GWR 6400 Class and 7400 Class that followed were closely related, fundamentally differing only in wheel size – – and, in the case of the 74xx, a higher boiler pressure of . This produced two general purpose classes with wide route availability. The 6400 was auto-fitted but more suitable for hilly routes than the 5400. The 7400 was not auto-fitted.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2234444", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234444", "title": "Khalil Ibrahim", "text": "Khalil Ibrahim\n\nDr. Khalil Ibrahim (1957 – 23 December 2011) was a Sudanese insurgent leader who was the founder of the Justice and Equality Movement (JEM).\n\nIbrahim was born in Sudan in 1957. Ibrahim was from the Koba branch of the Zaghawa ethnic group, which is located mainly in Sudan, with a minority on the Chad side of the border. He was an enthusiastic supporter of the National Islamic Front (NIF) seizure of power under the direction of Islamist Hassan al-Turabi in 1989. He also served as the state minister for education in Darfur between 1991 and 1994 in al-Fashir, North Darfur. A physician, Dr. Khalil spent four months in 1992 to fight Sudan People's Armed Forces. By Ibrahim's own account, he was disaffected with the Islamist movement by 2000 after seeing the economic neglect of the NIF, as well as its support to armed militias. At this time, he became part of a covert cell of Islamists who were seeking to change the NiF from inside. Dr. Ibrahim went on to serve as the state minister for social affairs in Blue Nile in 1997 before a post as adviser to the governor of Southern Sudan in Juba in 1998. However, others noted that he never received a national level appointment. Ibrahim's colleague in JEM, Ahmad Tugod, stated, \"Khalil is not a first or even second class political leader. [...] He struggled all of his life to get a post in Khartoum.\" He quit the post in August 1998, several months before the end of his appointment, and formed an NGO called \"Fighting Poverty\". In December 1999, when al-Bashir sidelined al-Turabi with the help of Ali Osman Taha, Dr. Ibrahim was in the Netherlands, studying for a Masters in Public Health at Universiteit Maastricht.\n\nIn the meantime, the structure of covert cells that Ibrahim had helped set up in 1994 had spread to Khartoum. The dissidents, dubbing themselves \"The Seekers of Truth and Justice\" published the \"\" in 2000, claiming that riverine Arabs dominated political power and resources. In 2001, Khalil Ibrahim was one of twenty people sent out of the country by the dissidents to go public. In August 2001, Ibrahim published a press release from the Netherlands, in which he announced the formation of the Justice and Equality Movement. The JEM has a relatively small ethnic base of support, being limited to the Kobe Zaghawa, including many kinsmen from across the Chadian border. Ibrahim received political and financial support from Libya and its leader Muammar Gaddafi. After the NTC's win in the 2011 Libyan civil war against the government of the Jamahiriya he was forced to flee back to Darfur.\n\nOn 5 March 2002, Dr. Ibrahim claimed credit for initiating a government revolt. This apparent claim of the landmark attack on Golo, actually carried out by the Sudan Liberation Army, was mocked by the SLA and the JEM was forced to back away from their announcement. Regardless, the JEM and the anti-government SLA formed a loose alliance in prosecuting the Darfur conflict.\n\nIn May 2006, the JEM rejected the Abuja peace process, which was accepted by the faction of the SLA led by Minni Minnawi, but rejected by the smaller SLA factions. On 30 June 2006, Ibrahim, Khamis Abdalla, the leader of an SLM faction, Dr Sharif Harir and Ahmed Ibrahim, co-leaders of the National Democratic Alliance (Sudan), founded the National Redemption Front rebel group in Asmara, Eritrea but which is based in Chad.\n\nIbrahim lived in exile in Libya from May 2010 to September 2011, when the Libyan civil war compelled him to flee across the Sahara and return to Darfur. The Sudanese government and diplomatic sources accused Ibrahim's group of rebels in Libya of fighting as mercenaries for Libyan strongman Muammar Gaddafi during the war, charges to which Ibrahim never responded.\n\nThe Sudan Armed Forces announced that it had killed Ibrahim with an air strike in North Kordofan on 25 December 2011.\n"}
{"id": "2234456", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234456", "title": "Dance Music Hall of Fame", "text": "Dance Music Hall of Fame\n\nThe Dance Music Hall of Fame was an organization established in 2003 to honor and remember significant contributors to the genre of dance music. It had its first inductions in 2004 but went inactive after the 2005 induction ceremony.\n\nThe Dance Music Hall of Fame was created in 2003 when music industry veteran John Parker (Robbins Entertainment) thought that something needed to be done to honor the creators and innovators of dance music. He enlisted the help of Eddie O'Loughlin (Next Plateau Records) initially and then they brought Daniel Glass (Glassworks), Tom Silverman (Tommy Boy Records) & Brian Chin (noted dance music writer/historian) in to form the organization. The Dance Music Hall of Fame recognizes the contributions of those who have had a significant impact on the evolution and development of dance music and celebrates the history and significance of the genre.\n\nArtists, Producers, Record, Remixer and DJs that helped to shape the dance music industry become eligible for induction 25 years after their first contribution or record release. Criteria include the influence and significance of the nominee's contributions to dance music.\nThe Dance Music Hall Of Fame Board of Advisers was composed of dance music professionals, historians and journalists. When the nominees were selected the ballots were sent to an international voting committee of over 1,000 dance music experts. An awards ceremony announcing the inductees in the Dance Music Hall Of Fame would take place annually at a formal dinner event in New York.\n\nDue to financial differences among the Board members, The Dance Music Hall of Fame ceased operations after its second ceremony in 2005.\n\n2004 - Dance Music Hall of Fame (DMHoF) Board of Directors: Daniel Glass, Eddie O'Loughlin, John Parker, Tom Silverman.\n\n2004 - Board of Advisers: Marty Angelo, John \"Jellybean\" Benitez, Joey Carvello, Mel Cheren, Michael Ellis, Dimitri from Paris, Tony Humphries, Frankie Knuckles, Jurgen Korduletsch, Brad LeBeau, John Luongo, Guy Moot, Michael Paoletta, Vince Pellegrino, Cory Robbins, Pete Tong, Cary Vance, Louie Vega, Pete Waterman, Judy Weinstein, Brian Chin.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2234457", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234457", "title": "Fish fry", "text": "Fish fry\n\nA fish fry is a meal containing battered or breaded fried fish. It usually also includes french fries, coleslaw, hushpuppies, lemon slices, tartar sauce, hot sauce, malt vinegar and dessert. Some Native American versions are cooked by coating fish with semolina and egg yolk. \n\nFish is often served on Friday nights during Lent as a restaurant special or through church fundraisers. Beer is a common beverage of choice to accompany a fish fry. A fish fry may include potato pancakes (with accompanying side dishes of sour cream or applesauce) and sliced caraway rye bread if served in a German restaurant or area.\n\nA Shore Lunch is traditional in the northern United States and Canada. For decades, outdoor enthusiasts have been cooking their catch on the shores of their favorite lakes. \n\nFish fries are very common in the Midwestern and northeastern regions of the United States. This is especially true for predominantly Roman Catholic communities on Fridays during Lent, when regulations call for abstinence from most meat products.\n\nThe tradition of Christians fasting on Fridays to recognize Jesus's crucifixion on Good Friday dates to the first century AD. Fish had been associated with religious holidays even in pre-Christian times. The first mention of fish in connection with Lent comes from Socrates of Constantinople, a church historian in the third and fourth centuries who spoke of abstaining from meat and meat products (such as cheese and eggs) during the 40 days of Lent. The custom was mentioned by Pope Gregory I, who was elected in 590, and was later incorporated into canon law. Roman Catholic tradition has been that the flesh of warm-blooded animals is off limits on Fridays, although the 1983 Code of Canon Law provided for alternative observances of the Friday penance outside Lent.\n\nMcDonald's addition of the Filet-o-Fish to its menu occurred when a Cincinnati franchise in a heavily Catholic neighborhood was struggling to sell hamburgers on Fridays during Lent.\n\nBattered or breaded haddock and cod fish fry is one of the trademarks of upstate New York cuisine and northwestern Pennsylvania, especially Albany, Buffalo and Rochester, as well as Syracuse, New York, and Utica, New York. The majority of restaurants in these cities serve a fish fry on Friday, even outside Lent, and it's often available throughout the week. These meals typically consist of a piece of fish, coleslaw (sometimes potato salad or macaroni salad), french fries, and a dinner roll.\n\nIn the southern United States, a fish fry is a family or social gathering, held outdoors or in large halls. At a typical fish fry, quantities of fish (such as bream, catfish, flounder and bass) available locally are battered and deep fried in cooking oil. The batter usually consists of corn meal, milk or buttermilk, and seasonings. In addition to the fish, hushpuppies (deep fried, seasoned corn dumplings), and cole slaw are served. These events are often potluck affairs. In Georgia and South Carolina, fish are dipped in milk, then into a mix of flour, cornmeal and seasonings before frying. Cheese grits is often a side dish.\n\nThe modern fish fry tradition is strong in Wisconsin, where hundreds of eateries hold fish fries on Fridays, and sometimes on Wednesdays. The Friday night fish fry is a popular-year round tradition in Wisconsin among people of all religious backgrounds. Fish fries there are offered at many non-chain restaurants, taverns that serve food, some chain restaurants, and at Roman Catholic churches as fundraisers. A typical Wisconsin fish fry consists of beer batter fried cod, perch, bluegill, walleye, smelt, or in areas along the Mississippi River, catfish. The meal usually comes with tartar sauce, french fries or German-style potato pancakes, coleslaw, and rye bread, though baked beans are not uncommon. The tradition in Wisconsin began because Wisconsin was settled heavily by Catholics of German, Polish, and other backgrounds whose religion forbade eating meat on Fridays. The number of lakes in the state meant that eating fish became a popular alternative. Scandinavian settlements in northern and eastern Wisconsin favored the fish boil, a variant on the fish fry, which involves heating potatoes, white fish, and salt in a large cauldron. \n"}
{"id": "2234466", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234466", "title": "July 21 (Eastern Orthodox liturgics)", "text": "July 21 (Eastern Orthodox liturgics)\n\nJuly 20 - Eastern Orthodox Church calendar - July 22\n\nAll fixed commemorations below are celebrated on August 3 by Old Calendar.\n\nFor July 21st, Orthodox Churches on the Old Calendar commemorate the Saints listed on July 8.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nGreek Sources\nRussian Sources\n"}
{"id": "2234471", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234471", "title": "Comparison of office suites", "text": "Comparison of office suites\n\nThe following tables compare general and technical information for a number of office suites:\n\nThe operating systems the office suites were designed to run on without emulation; for the given office suite/OS combination, there are five possibilities:\n\n! style=\"width:12em\" |\n! Word processing Software\n! Spreadsheet Software\n! Presentation Software\n! Notetaking software\n! Diagramming software\n! Raster graphics editor\n! Vector graphics editor\n! Image viewer\n! Formula editor\n! Database management software\n! Project management software\n! Desktop publishing software\n! Communication\n! Calendaring software\n! File hosting service\n! Ability Office\n! Apache OpenOffice\n! Breadbox Office\n! Calligra Suite\n! Feng Office Community Edition\n! GobeProductive\n! G Suite\n! iWork\n! LibreOffice\n! Lotus SmartSuite\n! MarinerPak\n! Microsoft Office\n! Microsoft Works (Discontinued in 2009)\n!MobiSystems\nOfficeSuite\n! NeoOffice\n! SoftMaker Office\n"}
{"id": "2234472", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234472", "title": "Westmorland Motorway Services", "text": "Westmorland Motorway Services\n\nWestmorland Motorway Services Limited is the British holding company that owns Westmorland Limited who run three motorway service stations plus a truckstop close to the M6 motorway and a combined service and visitor/exhibition centre.\n\nThe company is marketed as \"The Westmorland Family\" and its head office is located at the northbound Tebay services in Cumbria.\n\nThe company was formed in the early 1970s to operate the northbound Tebay West services on the M6 at the time this was the only MSA in the UK that was not part of a chain. Originally the company was a partnership between the Dunning and Birkett families though the Dunnings later bought out the other shareholders.\n\nThe company's sites are - \n\n"}
{"id": "2234485", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234485", "title": "Manuel Vizcarra", "text": "Manuel Vizcarra\n\nManuel Vizcarra was a Mexican judge and founder of the city of Mexicali now the state capital of the state of Baja California (Mexico).\n\nIn 1901, Manuel Vizcarra was named Justice of the Peace for the town that would become Mexicali. The group of homes was part of the town of Los Algodones. In 1902 he was designated sub tax-collector for Ensenada and assistant judge of Mexicali sub-ordinate to the Justice of the Peace of Los Algodones. He did not accept the offer of assistant judge and on September 5, 1903 Benigno González took the position. However, March 14, 1903, the date Vizcarra was offered the position, is considered (since 1968) as the date Mexicali was founded.\n\nIn 1902 formed part of the commission organized to select names for Mexicali and the town across the border, Calexico, California as sheriff of Los Algodones. Vizcarra supported the proposal that the name had to be Mexicali in response to journalist Leroy Holt's proposal for Calexico for the neighboring town.\n\n"}
{"id": "2234499", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234499", "title": "José Escolástico Marín", "text": "José Escolástico Marín\n\nGeneral José Escolástico Marín (d. November 11, 1846) was born in San Vicente. He was acting president of El Salvador from 1 February to 12 April and from 19 July to 26 September 1842.\n\nHe was killed in action while fighting against the government of President Eugenio Aguilar.\n\n"}
{"id": "2234504", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234504", "title": "Juan José Guzmán", "text": "Juan José Guzmán\n\nGeneral Juan José Guzmán (July 1797, La Unión – 19 October 1847) was the first President of El Salvador from 14 April 1842 to 1 February 1844.\n"}
{"id": "2234505", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234505", "title": "Finan of Lindisfarne", "text": "Finan of Lindisfarne\n\nFinan of Lindisfarne (died 10 or 17 February 661), also known as Saint Finan, was an Irish monk, trained at Iona Abbey in Scotland, who became the second Bishop of Lindisfarne from 651 until 661.\n\nFinan was appointed to Lindisfarne in 651.\n\nOriginally from Ireland, he built on Lindisfarne, a cathedral \"in the Irish fashion\", employing hewn oak, with a thatched roof, dedicated to St. Peter. He also founded St. Mary's at the mouth of the River Tyne. He converted the kings Sigebert of Essex and Peada of the Middle Angles to Christianity. Bede is the main source for Finan's life. He is specially noted by Bede as having borne an important part in the conversion of the northern Saxons.\n\nThe breviary of Aberdeen styles him \"a man of venerable life, a bishop of great sanctity, an eloquent teacher ... remarkable for his training in virtue and his liberal education, surpassing all his equals in every manner of knowledge as well as in circumspection and prudence, but chiefly devoting himself to good works and presenting in his life, a most apt example of virtue\". Finan ordained St. Cedd bishop of the East-Saxons, having called two other bishops to assist at his consecration.\n\nThe Abbey of Whitby, his chief foundation, was the scene of the famous Paschal controversy, which resulted in the withdrawal of the Irish monks from Lindisfarne.\nFinan was active for some time at a monastery on Church Island on Lough Currane in County Kerry; today it is known as St. Finan's Church. To the south of the lake is Inis Uasal (Noble Island), an island which is dedicated to him.\n\nFinan died in 661, and was buried at Lindisfarne, having held that see ten years.\n\nFinan's feast day is celebrated upon 9 January.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2234509", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234509", "title": "Radio Love Songs: The Singles Collection", "text": "Radio Love Songs: The Singles Collection\n\nRadio Love Songs: The Singles Collection is a 2002 greatest hits collection by Canadian rock group, 54-40. It also contains two new songs, \"Love Rush\" and \"Plenty Emotion\".\n\nTracks from the band's 1990s albums are all grouped together, and in reverse chronological order from 2000's \"Casual Viewin'\" to 1992's \"Dear Dear\"; each block is interspersed with one of the band's hits from their Warner Brothers (1984–1990) period re-recorded.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2234510", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234510", "title": "Fermín Palacios", "text": "Fermín Palacios\n\nFermín Palacios was president of El Salvador four times: February 1, 1844 – February 7, 1844; February 16, 1845 – April 25, 1845; February 1, 1846 – February 21, 1846; and July 12, 1846 – July 21, 1846. He was born in San Salvador. \n"}
{"id": "2234515", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234515", "title": "Francisco Malespín", "text": "Francisco Malespín\n\nGeneral Francisco Malespín Herrera (1806 – 25 November 1846) was an army officer and politicians, elected as the president of El Salvador in 1844. He served from 7 February 1844 to 15 February 1845, when he was deposed by his vice president Joaquín Eufrasio Guzmán after leading the country to war against Guatemala, a neighboring state of the Federal Republic of Central America. After being deposed, Malespin returned to El Salvador with forces from Honduras, but he was captured and assassinated.\n"}
{"id": "2234518", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234518", "title": "Joaquín Eufrasio Guzmán", "text": "Joaquín Eufrasio Guzmán\n\nJoaquín Eufrasio Guzmán (1801 – 1875) was a politician and briefly acting President of El Salvador on three occasions: from 25 October 1844 to 16 February 1845, from 25 April 1845 to 1 February 1846, and from 19 January 1859 to 15 February 1859, after conducting a coup against General Malespin during the war with Guatemala.\n\nGuzmán was born in Cartago, Costa Rica, in 1801 into a landowning family. In the dissensions between the Federal and Centralist parties, Guzmán joined the former. A landowner, he was commissioned as a lieutenant-colonel. \n\nHe was elected Vice President of El Salvador in 1844 with General Francisco Malespin as president. That year Malespin declared war against Guatemala and left the capital to command the army in person. Guzmán became acting president. \n\nGuzmán conducted a coup against Malespin on 2 February 1845 and was joined by the greater part of the inhabitants of the capital, and a portion of the general's small army. They deposed Malespin and Guzmán assumed the executive office till the end of the presidential term. \n\nBacked by a force from Honduras, Malespin invaded El Salvador but was defeated and assassinated. Guzmán was rewarded by the Assembly with the rank of general of division. He favored free elections and in 1848 delivered the office to his successor, Aguilar. \n\nGuzmán was several times elected to the legislative assembly, the council of state, and the prefecture of the department where he resided.\n\nHe was later elected as Vice President of El Salvador alongside President Miguel Santín del Castillo, and served from February 1858 to February 1859. \n\nHe died in 1875, San Miguel, El Salvador. \n\nHe had married and had a family. His son David Joaquín Guzmán was a politician and doctor, founding director of the National Museum of El Salvador and a museum of anthropology in Nicaragua.\n"}
{"id": "2234520", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234520", "title": "Eugenio Aguilar", "text": "Eugenio Aguilar\n\nEugenio Aguilar Gonzalez Batres (1804–1879) was President of El Salvador from 21 February 1846 to 1 February 1848.\n"}
{"id": "2234521", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234521", "title": "Animalize", "text": "Animalize\n\nAnimalize is the twelfth studio album by American rock band Kiss. It was released in 1984 on Mercury Records. The album marked the only appearance by lead guitarist Mark St. John, who replaced Vinnie Vincent in April 1984.\n\nAt the time of the record's release, Gene Simmons was pursuing a career in acting. Paul Stanley was thus primarily in charge of the album's production and direction.\n\nNew guitarist Mark St. John stated that when recording the record, he had utilized his Rockman gear, and that heavy equalization was used to take the \"Boston\" sound out of the recording.\n\nSt. John was forced to leave Kiss during the subsequent tour after being diagnosed with reactive arthritis. By November 1984, he was out of the band, the third lead guitarist to exit the group in two years. When asked what 'Animalize' meant, Stanley said that people were starting to become more like computers and that \"making music by pressing buttons\" was no fun.\n\nIn a continuation of Kiss' commercial resurgence which had begun with \"Lick It Up\", \"Animalize\" was certified platinum by the RIAA. It was the biggest-selling Kiss album since 1979's \"Dynasty\".\n\nCritics and longtime fans, however, criticized the band's continued move towards a glam metal style on \"Animalize\". Simmons fell into increasing conflict with his bandmates during this period for a variety of reasons, most of which revolved around his perceived lack of commitment to the band and preoccupation with numerous outside projects, including producing and managing other rock groups such as Black 'n Blue (whom Tommy Thayer was a member of at the time), bit parts in films like \"Trick or Treat\" (as a radio DJ), a co-starring role in \"Runaway\", and an assortment of business ventures.\n\n\"Heaven's on Fire\" became the biggest hit from the album (as well as one of the only songs to survive on the band's live setlist after the '80s), and its music video received heavy MTV rotation. It is also the only music video appearance of Mark St. John.\n\n\"Guitar World\" magazine placed the album on their list of \"New Sensations: 50 Iconic Albums That Defined 1984\".\n\nKiss\n\nAdditional musicians\n\n"}
{"id": "2234522", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234522", "title": "Tomás Medina", "text": "Tomás Medina\n\nTomás Medina Menéndez (June 1803 – February 1884) was provisional President of El Salvador 1–3 February 1848.\n\nMr. Medina began his public life in 1833 being elected to the Assembly and then senator till 1848. February of the same year he received the Presidency of the Republic as senator until the vice president, José Félix Quirós, took over the presidency.\n\nIn 1852 he was elected Vice President of El Salvador for 2 years under President Francisco Dueñas. The testimony is No. 34 of the Gaceta Oficial, 30 January of that election with the words, \"Yesterday it was declared Constitutional President by popular election, Mr. Lic. don Francisco Dueñas y Vice President designate conformed with the law Mr. don Tomás Medina.\"\n"}
{"id": "2234526", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234526", "title": "José Félix Quirós", "text": "José Félix Quirós\n\nJosé Félix Quirós (1811, San Miguel, El Salvador - 1883, San Miguel) was President of El Salvador 3 - 7 February 1848 and 1 March - 3 May 1851.\n\nHe served as Vice President of Doroteo Vasconcelos from February 1848 to April 1851, and Vice President of Gerardo Barrios from February 1860 to October 1863. \n"}
{"id": "2234527", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234527", "title": "Doroteo Vasconcelos", "text": "Doroteo Vasconcelos\n\nDoroteo Vasconcelos Vides y Ladrón de Guevara (1803–1883) was President of El Salvador 7 February 1848 - 1 February 1850 and 4 February 1850 – 1 March 1851. Vasconcelos was close friend of Honduran general Francisco Morazán. He tried to invade Guatemala and defeat general Rafael Carrera on 2 February 1851 but he was defeated. After defeat, he retired from public life.\n\nIn 1848, the liberals were able to force Rafael Carrera to leave office, after the country had been in turmoil for several months. Carrera resigned at his own free will and left for México. The new liberal regime passed a law where they emphatically ordered to execute Carrera if he dared to return to Guatemalan soil. On his absence, the liberal crillos from Quetzaltenango -led by general Agustín Guzmán who occupied the city after Corregidor general Mariano Paredes was called to Guatemala City to take over the Presidential office- declared that Los Altos was an independent state once again on 26 August 1848; that had the support of Vasconcelos' regime in El Salvador and the rebel guerrilla army of Vicente and Serapio Cruz who were declared enemies of general Carrera. The interim government was led by Guzmán himself and had Florencio Molina and priest Fernando Davila as his Cabinet members. On 5 September 1848, the criollos altenses chose a formal government led by Fernando Antonio Martínez.\n\nIn the meantime, Carrera decided to return to Guatemala and did so entering by Huehuetenango, where he met with the native leaders and told them that they must unite to prevail; the leaders agreed and slowly the segretated native communities started developing a new Indian identity under Carrera's leadership. In the meantime, on the oriental part of Guatemala, the Jalapa region became increasingly dangerous; former president Mariano Rivera Paz and rebel leader Vicente Cruz were both murdered there after trying to take over the Corregidor office in 1849.\n\nWhen Carrera arrived to Chiantla in Huehuetenango, he received two altenses emissaries who told him that their soldiers were not going to fight his forces because that would lead to a native revolt, much like the one that happened in 1840; their only request from Carrera was to keep the natives under control. However, the altenses did not comply with their offer, and led by Guzmán and his forces, the started chasing Carrera; the caudillo's\n\nOn his absence, the liberal crillos from Quetzaltenango -led by general Agustín Guzmán who occupied the city after Corregidor general Mariano Paredes was called to Guatemala City to take over the Presidential office- declared that Los Altos was an independent state once again on 26 August 1848; the new state had the support of Vasconcelos' regime in El Salvador and the rebel guerrilla army of Vicente and Serapio Cruz who were declared enemies of general Carrera. The interim government was led by Guzmán himself and had Florencio Molina and priest Fernando Davila as his Cabinet members. On 5 September 1848, the criollos altenses chose a formal government led by Fernando Antonio Martínez. In the meantime, Carrera decided to return to Guatemala and did so entering by Huehuetenango, where he met with the native leaders and told them that they had to remain united to prevail; the leaders agreed and slowly the segregated native communities started developing a new Indian identity under Carrera's leadership. In the meantime, on the eastern part of Guatemala, the Jalapa region became increasingly dangerous; former president Mariano Rivera Paz and rebel leader Vicente Cruz were both murdered there after trying to take over the Corregidor office in 1849.\n\nUpon learning that officer José Víctor Zavala had been appointed as Corregidor in Suchitepéquez, Carrera and his hundred jacalteco bodyguards crossed a dangerous jungle infested with jaguars to meet his former friend. When they met, Zavala not only did not capture him, but agreed to serve under his orders, thus sending a strong message to both liberal and conservatives in Guatemala City, that realized that they were forced to negotiate with Carrera, otherwise they were going to have to battle on two fronts -Quetzaltenango and Jalapa. Carrera went back to the Quetzaltenango area, while Zavala remained in Suchitepéquez as a tactical maneuver. Carrera received a visit from a Cabinet member of Paredes and told him that he had control of the native population and that he assured Paredes that he will keep them appeased. When the emissary returned to Guatemala City, he told the president everything Carrera said, and added that the native forces were formidable.\n\nAgustín Guzmán went to Antigua Guatemala to meet with another group of Paredes emissaries; they agreed that Los Altos would rejoin Guatemala, and that the latter would help Guzmán defeat his hated enemy and also build a port on the Pacific Ocean. Guzmán was sure of victory this time, but his plan evaporated when, in his absence, Carrera and his native allies had occupied Quetzaltenango; Carrera appointed Ignacio Yrigoyen as Corregidor and convinced him that he should work with the k'iche', mam, q'anjobal and mam leaders to keep the region under control. On his way out, Yrigoyen murmured to a friend: Now he is the King of the Indians, indeed!\n\nGuzmán then left for Jalapa, where he stroke a deal with the rebels, while Luis Batres Juarros convinced president Paredes to deal with Carrera; Guzmán could only get a temporary truce from the revolt leaders León Raymundo, Roberto Reyes and Agustín Pérez; however, the truce was short lived, as the rebels sacked Jalapa on June 3 and 4. Guzmán then left for El Salvador, where after a while he issued a note to the rest of liberal leaders in Central America in which he attacked the immorality and viciousness of the savage Rafael Carrera, who -according to Guzmán- had not governed Guatemala properly in the last nine years. In his note, Guzmán told that he had gone to El Salvador to retire from public life, but that he could not remain impassible watching how Guatemala was returning to Carrera's rule and saying that with the help of El Salvador, Honduras, Nicaragua and the reborn Los Altos he was going to confront Carrera and return to a Federal Government; he practically assured that he was Morazán's successor trying to get rid of Carrera, but his note did not gather any support and Carrera returned to power in Guatemala.\n\nVasconcelos finished his term in office and handed power to Ramón Rodríguez, who after only a few days give the power back to Vasconcelos for another 2-year term. During his time in office, he ordered the remains of Morazán to be returned to El Salvador, where he buried his old leader with State honors. After the liberal defeat of Los Altos and the return of Carrera as Guatemala's strong man, Vasconcelos gave asylum to all the Guatemalan liberales that had been exiled from their country, which led to increased tension between El Salvador y Guatemala.\n\nAfter Rafael Carrera returned from exile in 1849, Vasconcelos granted asylum to the Guatemalan liberals, who harassed the Guatemalan government in several different forms: José Francisco Barrundia did it through a liberal newspaper that had been established with that specific goal; Vasconcelos gave support during a whole year to a rebel faction \"La Montaña\", in eastern Guatemala, providing and distributing money and weapons. By late 1850, Vasconcelos was getting impatient due to the slowness of the progress of the war with Guatemala and decided to plan an open attack. Under that circumstance, the Salvadorean head of state started a campaign against the conservative Guatemalan regime, inviting Honduras and Nicaragua to participate in the alliance; only the Honduran government led by Juan Lindo accepted.\n\nMeanwhile, in Guatemala, where the invasion plans were perfectly well-known, President Mariano Paredes started taking precautions to face the situation, while the Guatemalan Archbishop, Francisco de Paula García Peláez, ordered peace prayers in the archdiocese.\n\nOn 4 January 1851, Vasconcelos and Lindo met in Ocotepeque, Honduras, where they signed an alliance against Guatemala. The Salvadorean army had 4,000 men, properly trained and armed and supported by artillery; the Honduran army numbered 2,000 men. The coalition army was stationed in Metapán, El Salvador, due to its proximity with both the Guatemalan and Honduran borders.\n\nOn 28 January 1851, Vasconcelos sent a letter to the Guatemalan Ministry of Foreign Relations, in which he demanded that the Guatemalan president relinquish power, so that the alliance could designate a new head of state loyal to the liberals and that Rafael Carrera be exiled, escorted to any of the Guatemalan southern ports by a Salvadorean regiment. The Guatemalan government did not accept the terms and the Allied army entered Guatemalan territory at three different places. On 29 January, a 500-man contingent entered through Piñuelas, Agua Blanca and Jutiapa, led by General Vicente Baquero, but the majority of the invading force marched from Metapán. The Allied army was composed of 4,500 men led by Vasconcelos, as Commander in Chief. Other commanders were general José Santos Guardiola, general Ramón Belloso, general José Trinidad Cabañas, and general Gerardo Barrios. Guatemala was able to recruit 2,000 men, led by Lieutenant General Rafael Carrera as Commander in Chief and several colonels.\n\nCarrera's strategy was to feign a retreat, forcing the enemy forces to follow the \"retreating\" troops to a place he had previously chosen; on February 1, 1851, both armies were facing each other with only the San José river between them. Carrera had fortified the foothills of La Arada, its summit about above the level of the river. A meadow deep lay between the hill and the river, and boarding the meadow was a sugar cane plantation. Carrera divided his army in three sections: the left wing was led by Cerna and Solares; the right wing led by Bolaños. He personally led the central battalion, where he placed his artillery. Five hundred men stayed in Chiquimula to defend the city and to aid in a possible retreat, leaving only 1,500 Guatemalans against an enemy of 4,500.\n\nThe battle began at 8:30 AM, when Allied troops initiated an attack at three different points, with an intense fire opened by both armies. The first Allied attack was repelled by the defenders of the foothill; during the second attack, the Allied troops were able to take the first line of trenches. They were subsequently expelled. During the third attack, the Allied force advanced to a point where it was impossible to distinguish between Guatemalan and Allied troops. Then, the fight became a melee, while the Guatemalan artillery severely punished the invaders. At the height of the battle when the Guatemalans faced an uncertain fate, Carrera ordered that sugar cane plantation around the meadow to be set on fire. The invading army was now surrounded: to the front, they faced the furious Guatemalan fire, to the flanks, a huge fire and to the rear, the river, all of which made retreat very difficult. The central division of the Allied force panicked and started a disorderly retreat. Soon, all of the Allied troops started retreating.\n\nThe 500 men of the rearguard pursued what was left of the Allied army, which desperately fled for the borders of their respective countries. The final count of the Allied losses were 528 dead, 200 prisoners, 1,000 rifles, 13,000 rounds of ammunition, many pack animals and baggage, 11 drums and seven artillery pieces. Vasconcelos sought refuge in El Salvador, while two Generals mounted on the same horse were seen crossing the Honduran border. Carrera regrouped his army and crossed the Salvadorean border, occupying Santa Ana, before he received orders from the Guatemalan President, Mariano Paredes, to return to Guatemala, since the Allies were requesting a cease-fire and a peace treaty.\n\nAfter this terrible defeat, Vasconcelos retired from both the presidency and public life.\n"}
{"id": "2234529", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234529", "title": "July 22 (Eastern Orthodox liturgics)", "text": "July 22 (Eastern Orthodox liturgics)\n\nJuly 21 - Eastern Orthodox Church calendar - July 23\n\nAll fixed commemorations below are celebrated on August 4 by Old Calendar.\n\nFor July 22nd, Orthodox Churches on the Old Calendar commemorate the Saints listed on July 9.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nGreek Sources\nRussian Sources\n"}
{"id": "2234533", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234533", "title": "Ramón Rodríguez (Salvadoran politician)", "text": "Ramón Rodríguez (Salvadoran politician)\n\nRamón Rodríguez was President of El Salvador 1–4 February 1850.\n"}
{"id": "2234536", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234536", "title": "Don't U Eva", "text": "Don't U Eva\n\n\"Don't U Eva\" was the first single from Australian artist Sarah Blasko's debut album \"The Overture & the Underscore\".\n\nIn Australia, the song was ranked #27 on Triple J's Hottest 100 of 2004.\n\nIt contained an exclusive original composition \"Fall Down\", a frequent appearance in Sarah's live shows, and \"Into the Great Wide Open\", a Tom Petty and the Heartbreakers cover originally found on the Heartbreaker's 1991 album of the same name.\n\nBen Lee makes a cameo appearance as the \"A&R man\" in \"Into the Great Wide Open\". He, Nadav & Edo Khan & Old Man River also sing backing vocals on this track.\n\nIt received a very limited release of around 1000 copies before being deleted.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2234541", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234541", "title": "Vicente Gómez", "text": "Vicente Gómez\n\nVicente Gómez, born in Honduras, was President of El Salvador from 1 to 15 February 1854.\n"}
{"id": "2234542", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234542", "title": "Rueben Mayes", "text": "Rueben Mayes\n\nRueben Mayes (born June 6, 1963) is a Canadian former American football running back who played professionally in the National Football League (NFL) from 1986 to 1993. He is a member of the College Football Hall of Fame for his contributions while playing for the Washington State Cougars.\n\nHe first gained notoriety as a running back at North Battleford Comprehensive High School in North Battleford, Saskatchewan. In 1980, Mayes led the NBCHS Vikings to an undefeated season and the SHSAA 3A provincial football championship. In 1981, he set a provincial record in the 100 metres at the SHSAA provincial track and field championship that still stands.\n\nMayes played college football at the Washington State University in Pullman, where he was recognized as a consensus All-American and finished tenth in the Heisman Trophy voting in 1984. Mayes set single-season and career-rushing school records (1,632; 3,519 yards) with the Cougars, and established an NCAA record for most rushing yards in one game (357 at Oregon in 1984). It was the Pacific-10 Conference record for over a quarter century, until broken by Ka'Deem Carey in 2012.\n\nIn 1995, a panel of experts commissioned by \"The Spokesman-Review\" named Mayes to the all-time WSU team. The honor was repeated in 1998 by Cougfan.com when it picked its list of the school's all-time greatest players. On May 1, 2008 he was elected to the College Football Hall of Fame. In August 2017, a group of panelists commissioned by the Pac-12 Network picked the 12 greatest Washington State players of all time and Mayes ranked No. 1.\n\nMayes was selected in the third round (57th overall) of the 1986 NFL Draft by the New Orleans Saints. He won the NFL Offensive Rookie of the Year Award that year from the Associated Press, and although his NFL career was hampered by injuries, he was named to the Pro Bowl twice. After five seasons with the Saints, Mayes was traded to the Seattle Seahawks in April 1992, where he played the final two years of his career.\n\n\nAfter football, Mayes became active in efforts to better educate at-risk youth. He later earned a master's degree and returned to WSU as an administrator. As of November 2018, he is Chief Development Officer at Pullman Regional Hospital. His son Logan was a three-star recruited linebacker at Marist Catholic High School in Eugene, Oregon, and committed to play at Washington State, following his father's footsteps.\n\nMayes is one of the only five Saskatchewan natives to make it to the NFL, the others were Arnie Weinmeister, Jon Ryan, Ben Heenan, and Brett Jones. Mayes was the subject of a 1989 documentary film, \"The Saint from North Battleford\", directed by Selwyn Jacob.\n\n"}
{"id": "2234553", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234553", "title": "Adverse event", "text": "Adverse event\n\nAn adverse event (AE) is any untoward medical occurrence in a patient or clinical investigation subject administered a pharmaceutical product and which does not necessarily have a causal relationship with this treatment. An adverse event (AE) can therefore be any unfavourable and unintended sign (including an abnormal laboratory finding), symptom, or disease temporally associated with the use of a medicinal (investigational) product, whether or not related to the medicinal (investigational) product.\n\nAEs in patients participating in clinical trials must be reported to the study sponsor and if required could be reported to local ethics committee. Adverse events categorized as \"serious\" (results in death, illness requiring hospitalization, events deemed life-threatening, results in persistent or significant disability/incapacity, a congenital anomaly/birth defect or medically important condition) must be reported to the regulatory authorities immediately, whereas non-serious adverse events are merely documented in the annual summary sent to the regulatory authority.\n\nThe sponsor collects AE reports from the local researchers, and notifies all participating sites of the AEs at the other sites, as well as both the local investigators' and the sponsors' judgment of the seriousness of the AEs. This process allows the sponsor and all the local investigators access to a set of data that might suggest potential problems with the study treatment while the study is still ongoing.\n\nAll clinical trials have the potential to produce AEs. AEs are classified as serious or non-serious; expected or unexpected; and study-related, possibly study-related, or not study-related.\n\nFor example, while a study that tests the effectiveness of a new blood pressure cuff for a period of 10 minutes might seem innocuous, the potential exists for the patient's skin to be irritated by the device. Patients in that study might also die during that 10-minute period. Both skin irritation and sudden death would be considered AEs. In this case, the skin irritation would be classified as not serious, unexpected, and possibly study-related. The death would be classified as serious and unexpected (unless the patient was already at death's door). The local researcher would use his/her medical judgment to determine whether the death could have been related to the study device.\n\nBoth the skin irritation and the death are unexpected events, and should alert the researcher to the potential existence of a problem with the device (for instance, it could have malfunctioned and shocked the patient). The researcher would report these AEs to the local Institutional Review Board and to the sponsor, and await direction on whether to stop the study. If the researcher feels there is an imminent danger posed by the device, he or she can use medical discretion to stop patients from participating in the study.\n\nAn adverse event can also be declared in the normal treatment of a patient which is suspected of being caused by the medication being taken or a medical device used in the treatment of the patient.\n\nIn Australia, 'Adverse EVENT' refers generically to medical errors of all kinds, surgical, medical or nursing related. The most recent available official study (1995) indicated 18,000 deaths per year are a result of hospital care. The Medical Error Action Group is lobbying for legislation to improve the reporting of AEs and through quality control, minimize the needless deaths.\n\nResearchers participating in a clinical trial must report all adverse events to the drug regulatory authority of the respective country where the drug or device is to be registered [e.g. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) if it is US]. Serious AEs must be reported immediately; minor AEs are 'bundled' by the sponsor and submitted later.\n\nClinical trial results often report the number of grade 3 and grade 4 adverse events.\nGrades are defined:\n\nThe FDA provides a database for reporting of adverse events called the \"Manufacturer and User Facility Device Experience Database\" (MAUDE)[1]. The data consist of voluntary reports since June 1993, user facility reports since 1991, distributor reports since 1993, and manufacturer reports since August 1996, and is open for public view. Two private companies have also recently started providing access to analyzed adverse event information: Clarimed provides adverse event information for medical devices and AdverseEvents provides adverse event data for drugs.\n\n"}
{"id": "2234555", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234555", "title": "José María San Martín", "text": "José María San Martín\n\nColonel José María San Martín (29 March 1811 – 12 August 1857) was a military officer, politician and President of El Salvador.\n\nBorn in Nacaome, Honduras to Colonel Joaquín de San Martín and Joaquina Fugón, he moved with his family to Chalatenango, El Salvador as a child.\n\nHe studied philosophy at the Universidad de San Carlos de Guatemala but did not graduate. Instead he returned to El Salvador in 1829 where he later married Isabel García de Machón.\n\nIn 1832 he became a deputy in the parliament of the Province of El Salvador.\n\nIn 1834 he joined the army.\n\nLater in 1834 his father Joaquín de San Martín y Ulloa, \n\nThe family of San Martín y Ulloa went into exile in Mexico. After the Central American Confederation in 1840 returned to El Salvador. José María San Martín returned as a lieutenant colonel.\n\nIn 1842 he attempted a coup against Francisco Malespín, which failed and José María San Martín was exiled to Honduras.\n\nHe returned to El Salvador in 1845. On 16 May 1846, Eugenio Aguilar appointed him Minister of Finance and War. These offices were held by San Martín until September 19, 1847. In 1850 he was elected to Parliament from 1851 to 1853.\n\nFrom 30 January to 1 February 1852 he was President of El Salvador. At the end of 1853, he was elected president for an additional two years.\n\nOn April 16, 1854, an earthquake completely destroyed the city of San Salvador. A commission had been made by the government on April 27, 1854, to identify a suitable relocation site for the city. On May 8, 1854 president San Martín traveled out of Cojutepeque in order to inspect the recommended site but it failed to meet his standards for the city. As a result, he created a new commission made up of several engineers and on June 4 they chose Santa Tecla.\n\nOn 14 February 1855, he decreed the creation of the department of Chalatenango. Isidro Menéndez instructed applicable laws of El Salvador to begin. Compared with the conservative government of José Rafael Carrera Turcios in Guatemala, behaved peacefully. In the cabinet of his successor in office of President, Rafael Campo, José María San Martín in 1856 was minister of war.\n\nOn August 12, 1857, San Martin died from cholera morbus on his ranch, San Cristóbal. The contagion had been spread by soldiers returning from Nicaragua with Gerardo Barrios, who had disobeyed orders from president Campo to stay in Nicaragua.\n"}
{"id": "2234561", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234561", "title": "Rafael Campo", "text": "Rafael Campo\n\nRafael Campo Pomar (24 October 1813 – 1 March 1890) was President of El Salvador 12 February 1856 - 1 February 1858.\n\nCampo was born in Sonsonate, El Salvador. His parents were Pedro Campo Arpa and Juana Maria Pomar, his father being born in Torrijo del Campo (Teruel), Spain on June 26, 1772. The genealogy, plus photographs and documents of ex-president Campo's family can be seen in the book \"Salvadoran Roots\" by Jaime Cader, published in 2011. Rafael Campo was the first cousin of the Marqui de Campo in Valencia, Spain. (See the article in Spanish in wikipedia.org about José Campo Pérez to read the references.) Campo was elected president on 30 January 1856. He turned over power to his vice president, Francisco Dueñas, on 12 May of the same year, but resumed the presidency on 19 July. He was a member of the Conservative Party.\n\nCampo stepped down after the serious cholera epidemic of 1857 had exhausted the country. He was in office during Central America's \"National War\" against William Walker and his filibusters, a very difficult time for that region. The book \"Apuntes Biogáficos del Honorable Ex-presidente de El Salvador -Don Rafael Campo\" by Abraham Rivera (1985 edition) has a photograph of Campo with the caption saying that he is the enemy of foreign intervention in Central America. He died, aged 76, in Puerto de Acajutla on March 1, 1890.\n"}
{"id": "2234562", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234562", "title": "Francisco Dueñas", "text": "Francisco Dueñas\n\nFrancisco Dueñas Díaz (3 December 1810 – 4 March 1884) was a Salvadorean politician and member of the Conservative Party who served as President of El Salvador from:\n\nHe was \"an ardent defender of the clerical interests. Dueñas at one time had taken the vows as a Dominican, but when the convents were closed in 1829, he left the cloister and secured a papal dispensation.\" Under his leadership, \"the clerical party was in the ascendancy and El Salvador experienced a far-reaching Conservative reaction.\"\n"}
{"id": "2234566", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234566", "title": "Serious adverse event", "text": "Serious adverse event\n\nA serious adverse event (SAE) in human drug trials is defined as any untoward medical occurrence that at any dose\n\n\nThe term \"life-threatening\" in the definition of \"serious\" refers to an event in which the patient was at risk of death at the time of the event; it does not refer to an event which hypothetically might have caused death if it were more severe. Adverse events are further defined as “Any untoward medical occurrence in a patient or clinical investigation subject administered a pharmaceutical product and which does not necessarily have to have a causal relationship with this treatment.”\n\nInvestigators in human clinical trials are obligated to report these events in clinical study reports. Research suggests that these events are often inadequately reported in publicly available reports. Because of the lack of these data and uncertainty about methods for synthesising them, individuals conducting systematic reviews and meta-analyses of therapeutic interventions often unknowingly overemphasise health benefit. To balance the overemphasis on benefit, scholars have called for more complete reporting of harm from clinical trials.\n\nSerious adverse reactions are serious adverse events judged to be related to drug therapy. A SUSAR (suspected unexpected serious adverse reaction) should be reported to a drug regulatory authority under an investigational license by using the CIOMS form (or in some countries an equivalent form). \"Unexpected\" means that for an authorised (approved) medicinal product that the event is not described in the product's labeling, or in the case of an investigational (unapproved) product that the event is not listed in the Investigator’s Brochure.\n\nAn adverse effect is an adverse event which is believed to be caused by a health intervention.\n\n"}
{"id": "2234574", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234574", "title": "Epilogue", "text": "Epilogue\n\nAn epilogue or epilog (from Greek ἐπίλογος \"epílogos\", \"conclusion\" from ἐπί \"epi\", \"in addition\" and λόγος \"logos\", \"word\") is a piece of writing at the end of a work of literature, usually used to bring closure to the work. It is presented from the perspective of within the story. When the author steps in and speaks directly to the reader, that is more properly considered an afterword. The opposite is a prologue—a piece of writing at the \"beginning\" of a work of literature or drama, usually used to open the story and capture interest. Some genres, for example television programs and video games, call the epilog an \"outro\" patterned on the use of \"intro\" for \"introduction\".\n\nAn epilogue is the final chapter at the end of a story that often serves to reveal the fates of the characters. Some epilogues may feature scenes only tangentially related to the subject of the story. They can be used to hint at a sequel or wrap up all the loose ends. They can occur at a significant period of time after the main plot has ended. In some cases, the epilogue is used to allow the main character a chance to \"speak freely\".\n\nAn epilogue can continue in the same narrative style and perspective as the preceding story, although the form of an epilogue can occasionally be drastically different from the overall story. It can also be used as a sequel.\n\nIn films, the final scenes may feature a montage of images or clips with a short explanation of what happens to the characters. A few examples of such films are \"9 to 5\", \"American Graffiti\", \"National Lampoon's Animal House\", \"Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – Part 2\", \"Four Weddings and a Funeral\", \"Remember the Titans\", and \"Changeling\".\n\nThe epilogue of \"La La Land\" shows a happy ending, an alternative to the actual ending. \n\nIn many documentaries and biopics, the epilogue is text-based, explaining what happened to the subjects after the events covered in the film.\n\nIn video gaming, epilogues can occur at the end of the story, usually after the credits have rolled. An epilogue in a game functions similarly to an epilogue in film and literature, providing closure to the end of a story.\n\nHowever, the way in which an epilogue is interacted with in a video game can then determine how a story ends, in works of fiction that contain multiple endings. For example, there are four possible endings to \"\", and three of the endings are chosen by what the player does in the epilogue.\n\nIn games that feature the permanent death of playable characters, an epilogue can chronicle what has happened to the various characters that have survived the events of the game, depicting how their situation has changed after the story has come to a conclusion. For example, the 2015 video game \"Until Dawn\" features those who survived recounting their experiences to the Police after being rescued. This system can also be expanded on. In most games of the \"Fire Emblem\" series, relationships can be built between characters, allowing for unique outcomes to happen for characters depending on the actions of the player throughout the campaign.\n\nA visual novel can also feature a type of epilogue, which will wrap up all of the scenarios encountered by a player, most often after the game has been fully completed by reaching all of the multiple endings; as is the case with \"Tsukihime\", featuring an epilogue that expands on the endings of all completable routes, as well as providing context for the rest of the game by explaining events in the prologue.\n\nFor many years \"The Epilogue\", a reflective 5-minute sermonette, was the last programme of the day broadcast on a Sunday evening by BBC radio and later television. The format was picked up by the independent broadcaster ITV in 1956 and was adopted across its various franchises until 1988.\n\n"}
{"id": "2234575", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234575", "title": "Tom York (television personality)", "text": "Tom York (television personality)\n\nTom York (born November 30, 1924 in Holland, Missouri) is an American television personality, who worked from 1957 to 1989 for WBRC-TV in Birmingham, Alabama. While he served in several capacities with the station, he is best remembered for \"The Tom York Morning Show,\" which was the station's primary morning show for 32 years. During the early 1960s, Fannie Flagg served as his co-host. The show was so popular that when WBRC's network, ABC, premiered its own morning show, \"Good Morning America\", WBRC refused to carry it since it would have required moving York's show to another timeslot or canceling it altogether. WBRC began airing the second hour of \"GMA\" in the early 1980s, and only began airing the entire show in 1989 after York retired.\n\nYork served in the United States Navy as an aviation radioman and gunner during World War II. He graduated from Florence State Teachers College (now the University of North Alabama), then worked in radio in North Alabama before moving to Birmingham.\n\nNow retired from television, York was a weekly columnist for his hometown newspaper, \"The Hoover Gazette,\" from 2006 until shortly before the newspaper's demise in 2007.\n\nYork won a regional Emmy Award in 1995.\n\nYork was the master of ceremonies for the induction ceremonies for the Alabama Sports Hall of Fame for more than a quarter century, and was himself inducted into ASHOF in 1996. He wrote a book about the ASHOF in 2001.\n\nHe is the father of conservative American author and columnist Byron York.\n"}
{"id": "2234586", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234586", "title": "Bobby Lashley", "text": "Bobby Lashley\n\nFranklin Roberto Lashley (born July 16, 1976) is an American professional wrestler and mixed martial artist. He is currently signed to WWE, where he performs on the Raw brand under the ring name Bobby Lashley.\n\nDuring Lashley's first tenure with WWE, he was a two-time ECW World Champion and one-time United States Champion. Lashley is also known for his work in Total Nonstop Action Wrestling/Impact Wrestling, where he was a four-time TNA/Impact World Champion, a one-time X Division Champion, and one-time and final King of the Mountain Champion. After returning to WWE in 2018, Lashley would become a two-time Intercontinental Champion. Between WWE and TNA/Impact, Lashley has won a total of eleven championships, six of those eleven being world championships, and has also headlined multiple pay-per-view events.\n\nFranklin Roberto Lashley was born the son of a United States Army drill sergeant with three older sisters; the family occasionally moved from one military base to another during his childhood. While his father was stationed at Fort Riley in Kansas, Lashley attended Fort Riley Middle School where he was introduced to amateur wrestling in seventh grade as an off-season alternative to football. He later graduated from Junction City High School, where he continued to wrestle. Lashley attended Missouri Valley College, where in 1996, 1997 and 1998, he was the National Association of Intercollegiate Athletics (NAIA) National Wrestling Champion in the 177 lbs category and in 1999 he graduated with a bachelor’s degree in human-service agency management and recreation administration. As of 2015, Lashley had a sister still on active service in the United States Air Force and he himself followed his father into the army after college, where he continued to compete in amateur wrestling in the army's World Class Athlete Program. During three years in the Army, Lashley won a gold and silver medal in the International Military Sports Council senior freestyle wrestling event.\n\nIn 2003, Lashley was living and training in Colorado Springs, with the goal of qualifying for Team USA to wrestle at the 2004 Olympic Games. While a witness to a bank robbery, Lashley was forced to dive for cover to avoid gunfire, during which he suffered an injury to his knee that required surgery. This ended his amateur career.\n\nIn mid-2005, Lashley appeared at four live events, wrestling in dark matches for both the \"Raw\" and \"SmackDown!\" brands. On September 23, 2005, he made his televised WWE debut as a face on \"SmackDown!\" under his real name. He was introduced as a three-time National Amateur Wrestling Champion, a four-time All-American, a two-time Armed Forces Champion, and a 2002 Silver Medalist at the Military World Championship. In his first match, he defeated Simon Dean. In his pay-per-view debut at No Mercy, he defeated Dean once again. Lashley went on to defeat numerous superstars both on \"SmackDown!\" and \"Raw\". On the November 11 episode of \"SmackDown!\", Lashley defeated Orlando Jordan in a qualifying match for a place on Team SmackDown! at Survivor Series where he was the first to be eliminated. Prior to this elimination Lashley was dominating the Raw Superstars, showcasing various \"power moves\" and a finisher on Carlito. Yet a chokeslam from Kane, who was on the apron, caused Lashley to be eliminated.\nOn January 6, 2006, Lashley became the first SmackDown! wrestler to qualify for that year's Royal Rumble. At the Royal Rumble, Lashley was the eighth wrestler to enter the match, in which he eliminated Sylvain, but he was then eliminated by the combination of Raw's then World Tag Team Champions Big Show and Kane. Following the Royal Rumble, Lashley began a feud with John Bradshaw Layfield leading up to a match at No Way Out, where Lashley suffered his first loss in singles competition, largely due to interference from Finlay. This prompted a feud between Lashley and Finlay, which lasted throughout February and March, and it notably included a lumberjack match, which Finlay won after using a shillelagh.\n\nOn April 2, after winning a battle royal by lastly eliminating MNM, Lashley competed at his first WrestleMania (WrestleMania 22) in the Money in the Bank ladder match – which was won by Rob Van Dam. Lashley next entered \"SmackDown!\"'s 2006 King of the Ring tournament. He made it to the finals, defeating Mark Henry and Finlay in the process. However, in the final round – held at Judgment Day – he was defeated by Booker T with help from Finlay. As Booker was being crowned during his coronation, Lashley speared him. These acts developed into a feud with the newly named \"King Booker\" and the other members of his court (Queen Sharmell, Finlay, and William Regal). During this feud, Lashley won his first professional wrestling championship by defeating JBL for the United States Championship, which he lost to Finlay a little less than two months later. Lashley later joined forces with Batista against the Court. Shortly after losing the United States Title, a physician declared Lashley unable to compete, stating that during an annual exam, Lashley was found to have elevated enzymes of the liver and therefore, would not be cleared to wrestle until further evaluation. Lashley returned a couple of weeks later to the \"SmackDown!\" roster to continue his feud with the Court and went on to earn his first match for the World Heavyweight Championship at No Mercy against King Booker. The bout was subsequently turned into a four-way bout, also including Batista and Booker's ally, Finlay. King Booker won the match after pinning Finlay.\n\nOn November 14, 2006, Lashley moved to the ECW brand. He debuted on the brand by making a surprise appearance to sign a contract for the final spot in the Extreme Elimination Chamber match for the ECW World Championship at December to Dismember. At December to Dismember, Lashley was the fifth person released into the match. He eliminated both Test and The Big Show by pinfall after a spear to become the new ECW World Champion, thus making him the first African American in ECW history to win the title. After winning the ECW World Championship, Lashley then had successful title defenses against Big Show, Rob Van Dam, Test, Hardcore Holly, Kenny Dykstra, and Mr. Kennedy. On March 19, 2007, episode of \"Raw\", Lashley officially became the first and only person to ever break Chris Masters' Masterlock hold (Swinging full nelson) and thus the first and only person to ever defeat the Masterlock Challenge.\nIn early 2007, Lashley was selected by Donald Trump to represent him in a \"Battle of the Billionaires\" match, against Vince McMahon's representative, Umaga, which also featured Vince's long time adversary Stone Cold Steve Austin as the guest referee. At WrestleMania 23 in a Hair vs. Hair match, Lashley defeated Umaga following a spear and helped Trump and Austin shave McMahon's head afterwards in accordance with the match's losing stipulation, saving Donald Trump's hair from being shaved off. After WrestleMania, Lashley feuded with Mr. McMahon. McMahon booked himself, his son Shane McMahon, and Umaga in a 3-on-1 handicap match against Lashley at Backlash for the ECW World Championship. After two high impact diving splashes from Umaga, Mr. McMahon tagged himself into the match and pinned Lashley to win the title. Lashley legitimately injured his shoulder during the match and after an examination days later, it was revealed he had a damaged rotator cuff but would not need surgery at the time. At Judgment Day, Lashley defeated Vince, Shane, and Umaga in a 3-on-1 handicap rematch after hitting the Dominator on Shane McMahon. Lashley did not win the ECW World Championship, however, because he did not pin Mr. McMahon. As a result, Mr. McMahon retained the title. On June 3 at One Night Stand, Lashley defeated Vince McMahon in a street fight to win the ECW World Championship for a second reign despite interference by Shane McMahon and Umaga in the match, making Lashley the first man to win the ECW World Championship twice since WWE reactivated the title.\n\nOn the June 11 episode of \"Raw\", Lashley was drafted from the ECW brand to the Raw brand as part of the 2007 WWE draft. As a result of the move, Lashley was stripped of the ECW World Championship by Vince McMahon. He took place in a challenge match against Mick Foley, Randy Orton, King Booker and John Cena for the WWE Championship at which Cena won to retain the WWE Championship. Lashley became the number one contender for the WWE Championship by winning the \"Beat the Clock\" challenge on July 2 episode of \"Raw\". On July 22 at The Great American Bash, he lost to Cena and after the match, they shook hands as a sign of respect. On July 30 episode of \"Raw\", Lashley was defeated by Mr. Kennedy. During the match, Lashley was \"injured\" after Mr. Kennedy kicked Lashley's shoulder into the ring steps, allowing Lashley to have time off for surgery for the legitimate injury he suffered at The Great American Bash. After a six-month hiatus, WWE announced that Lashley was released from his WWE contract on February 4, 2008.\n\nAfter Lashley was released from WWE, Lashley returned to wrestling by appearing at AAA's flagship event Triplemanía XVI. He, along with Kenzo Suzuki and Electroshock, defeated Chessman, Silver King, and La Parka, Jr.\n\nLashley made an appearance at Total Nonstop Action Wrestling's Lockdown pay-per-view event on April 19, 2009 and he also later appeared on that week's episode of \"TNA Impact!\", both times pointing and smiling at The Main Event Mafia, thus appearing as a heel. On July 15, TNA announced that he had signed an official contract with the company. On July 23, Kurt Angle introduced Lashley as the newest member of the Main Event Mafia. Lashley entered the ring and hugged Angle while the rest of the Mafia held a beaten and battered Mick Foley upright. Angle then told Lashley to finish off Foley but as Lashley prepared to spear Foley, he turned on Angle and cleared the Mafia from the ring, thus making him a face.\n\nOn the edition of July 30 of \"Impact!\", Lashley made his in-ring debut for TNA in a tag team match as he and Mick Foley wrestled against World Heavyweight Champion Kurt Angle and Legends Champion Kevin Nash, where if Angle or Nash was pinned, whoever defeated them would win their respective title. It started out as a handicap match thanks to the Main Event Mafia attacking Lashley before the match, but eventually Lashley entered the match and helped Mick Foley pin Nash to win the match for his team and become the Legends Champion. On the edition of August 27 of \"Impact!\", Jeremy Borash interviewed him and TNA President Dixie Carter in which she said their goal was to make him a World Champion in both MMA and TNA. At No Surrender, he defeated Rhino with a knockout punch.\n\nAfter No Surrender, Lashley began a feud with Samoa Joe. After teaming with Team 3D in a winning effort against Rhino and The British Invasion (Doug Williams and Brutus Magnus) on the edition of October 1 of \"Impact!\", Joe assaulted Lashley and choked him out with a rear naked choke. The following week, Lashley cost Joe the X Division Championship in a match against Amazing Red. At Bound for Glory, Lashley defeated Joe in a submission match. The following month at Turning Point, Lashley's winning streak came to an end, when Scott Steiner pinned him in a Falls Count Anywhere match following a shot with a steel pipe. On November 26, Lashley defeated Abyss, Desmond Wolfe, and Robert Roode to win the TNA Championship Series tournament and earn himself a future World Heavyweight Title shot. At Final Resolution, Lashley avenged his prior loss and defeated Steiner in a Last Man Standing match with a pipeshot. On January 4, 2010, the Monday night edition of \"Impact!\", Lashley and Kristal turned heel after requesting their immediate releases from TNA in order for Lashley to fully concentrate on his MMA career. Lashley went on to attack random wrestlers until he was granted what he wanted. On the January 21 episode of \"Impact!\", Lashley suddenly apologized to new executive producer Eric Bischoff for his actions, saying he just wanted to compete, but was nevertheless fired by him the following week. This was Lashley's last TNA appearance until 2014. On February 10, 2010, Lashley's profile was removed from the official TNA website. In an interview with Heavy Sports, Lashley claimed that the release was legitimate and had been done in order for him to fully focus on his MMA career.\n\nAfter Lashley was released from TNA he made one appearance in Antonio Inoki's promotion Inoki Genome Federation (IGF). He defeated another WWE alumni The Predator. He returned to Japan on September 25, 2010 for a tag-team match with Bob Sapp against Kendo Kashin and Tamon Honda. Bob and Bobby were defeated. Since then Lashey regularly performs in IGF.\n\nIn 2011 he participated in the IGF Championship tournament. He won the 1st round match against Keith Hanson, but was defeated in semifinals by Josh Barnett.\n\nOn October 20, 2012, Lashley wrestled Jay Bradley and Robert Anthony in a three-way match for the vacant Resistance Pro Wrestling Heavyweight Championship, which was won by Anthony.\n\nOn June 26, 2013, Lashley signed a two-year contract with IGF, after winning the promotion's general election.\n\nOn December 27, 2014, Lashley defeated Mexx and Tiny Iron to win the IWS Heavyweight Championship.\n\nOn March 9, 2014, Lashley returned to TNA at Lockdown in Miami, Florida, answering Ethan Carter III's open challenge after his scheduled opponent Kurt Angle could not wrestle due to an injury. On the March 20 episode of \"Impact Wrestling\", Lashley and Carter had a rematch that once again ended in a no contest after an interference by Willow attacking Carter.\n\nOn the May 15 episode of \"Impact Wrestling\", Lashley made his return after running out to the aid of Eric Young, but instead hit Young with a spear and allying himself along with MVP and Kenny King, turning heel in the process. At Slammiversary, Lashley defeated Samoa Joe to earn the right challenge Young for the TNA World Heavyweight Championship in a steel cage match involving Austin Aries, but lost the match. Lashley defeated Young on June 19 episode of \"Impact Wrestling\" to win the TNA World Heavyweight Championship, his first title in TNA, making him the first African American in TNA history to win the title, as well as his third world championship reign overall. He successfully defended the title on July 3 against Young. On June 25 (aired July 17), Lashley retained the title against Jeff Hardy. At \"Impact Wrestling\": Destination X on July 31, Lashley successfully defended the title against Austin Aries, who had forfeited the X Division Championship for a title shot. At No Surrender, Lashley successfully retained his title against Bobby Roode. On September 18, at the tapings for the October 28 episode of \"Impact Wrestling\", Lashley lost the World Heavyweight Championship to Roode.\n\nLashley regained the championship on January 7, 2015 after interference from MVP, King, Samoa Joe and Low Ki, as well as Eric Young turning on Roode.\n\nOn the June 3 episode of \"Impact Wrestling\", Lashley defeated Eric Young after Chris Melendez distracted Young. At Slammiversary, Lashley teamed with Mr. Anderson against Ethan Carter III and Tyrus in a losing effort. On the August 12 episode of \"Impact Wrestling\", Lashley defeated Jessie Godderz in a qualifying match for the King of the Mountain match for the vacant TNA King of the Mountain Championship, which was won by PJ Black. On the August 26 episode of \"Impact Wrestling\", Lashley competed in a four-way match for a shot at King of the Mountain Championship, which was won by Bobby Roode. On the September 16 episode of \"Impact Wrestling\", Team TNA (Lashley, Drew Galloway, Davey Richards, Eddie Edwards and Bram) defeated Team GFW (Jeff Jarrett, Eric Young, Chris Mordetzky, Brian Myers and Sonjay Dutt) in a Lethal Lockdown match. On October 4 at Bound for Glory, Lashley unsuccessfully challenged Bobby Roode for the TNA King of the Mountain Championship. During October and November, Lashley began competing in the TNA World Title Series for the opportunity to win the vacant TNA World Heavyweight Championship, where he ended second in his block to successfully advance to round 16 where he defeated Drew Galloway to advance into the quarterfinals and Mahabali Shera to advance the semifinals, but he failed to qualify for the finals when he was defeated by the eventual winner Ethan Carter III.\n\nOn the March 8 episode of \"Impact Wrestling\", Lashley defeated Kurt Angle in Angle's farewell match with the company. After the match, he would continue to assault Angle until he was run off by Drew Galloway, Eddie Edwards and Ethan Carter III, thus turning heel once again. The following week, Lashley attacked Josh Mathews and D'Angelo Dinero. On the March 22 episode of \"Impact Wrestling\", Lashley competed in a gauntlet match to determine the number one contender to the TNA World Heavyweight Championship, but he was eliminated by an interfering D'Angelo Dinero. On the April 5 episode of \"Impact Wrestling\", Lashley defeated Dinero in a street fight. On the May 3 episode of \"Impact Wrestling\", Lashley won a three-way match against Jeff Hardy and Mike Bennett to earn a shot at the TNA World Heavyweight Championship against Drew Galloway. However, on the May 15 episode of \"Impact Wrestling\", Lashley failed to win the title in a lumberjack match after a disqualification. On June 12 at Slammiversary, Lashley finally defeated Galloway by knockout in a Tap Out or Knockout match, starting his third reign as the TNA World Heavyweight Champion. At Destination X, Lashley defended his title against Eddie Edwards with Edwards' X Division Championship also on the line. However, the match ended in a no contest when Mike Bennett and the debuting Moose attacked him. On the July 21 episode of \"Impact Wrestling\", Lashley defeated Edwards in a Winner Take All Six Sides of Steel match to retain the TNA World Heavyweight Championship and win the X Division Championship. On the August 11 episode of \"Impact Wrestling\", Lashley defeated James Storm in to retain the TNA World Heavyweight and X Division Championships and win the TNA King of the Mountain Championship, after which he was confronted by TNA's newest acquisition Aron Rex, who observed Lashley from the ramp. \n\nOn the January 5 episode of \"Impact Wrestling\", Lashley failed to regain the championship in a three-way match also involving Ethan Carter III, after interference from Davey Richards. At , Lashley defeated Richards. The following week, he defeated Ethan Carter III in a Last Man Standing match to become the number one contender to the TNA World Heavyweight Championship. At the Genesis episode special of \"Impact Wrestling\", Lashley defeated Edwards in a 30-Minute Iron Man match to win his fourth TNA World Heavyweight Championship. On the January 12 episode of \"Impact Wrestling\", he successfully retained his title against fellow mixed martial artist Josh Barnett. On the March 2 episode of \"Impact Wrestling\", Lashley lost the TNA World Heavyweight Championship to Alberto El Patron. However, due to El Patron's controversial victory, the championship was returned to Lashley, leaving his title reign uninterrupted.\n\nAfter losing a number one contender's match to Matt Sydal at Destination X and failing to recapture the title in a Gauntlet for the Gold match, Lashley announced that he was (kayfabe) quitting wrestling to focus on his MMA career. This went into a feud against Moose where American Top Team were involved. At Bound for Glory, Lashley and King Mo defeated Moose and Stephan Bonnar in a Six Sides of Steel match. Throughout the first months of 2018, Lashley had small feuds with oVe and Brian Cage, all of which were taped prior to his departure.\n\nOn the April 9, 2018 episode of \"Raw\", the night after WrestleMania 34, Lashley made his return to WWE, where he confronted and attacked Elias. The first month of Lashley's return would see him in a number of tag-team matches, teaming with the likes of Braun Strowman, Bobby Roode, Finn Bálor, Seth Rollins, and Roman Reigns, all being in victorious efforts against the likes of Kevin Owens, Sami Zayn, Jinder Mahal, The Miz, Curtis Axel, and Bo Dallas. Lashley would later team with Braun Strowman at Backlash in a victorious effort against Kevin Owens and Sami Zayn. Following Backlash, Lashley would enter into a short feud with Sami Zayn, culminating with Lashley facing Zayn in a victorious effort at Money in the Bank. Lashley then entered a feud with Roman Reigns, where both men believed that they were the rightful challenger to the Universal Championship. This led to a match between the two at Extreme Rules, where Lashley defeated Reigns. The following night on \"Raw\", Lashley defeated Elias and Seth Rollins one of two triple threat matches to determine who would face Universal Champion Brock Lesnar at SummerSlam, but on the July 23 episode of \"Raw\", he was defeated by Roman Reigns, who won the other triple threat match. \n\nOn the September 17 episode of \"Raw\", he introduced his new manager Lio Rush. On the October 8 episode of \"Raw\", Lashley defeated Kevin Owens before viciously attacking him post-match, turning Lashley into a heel for the first time in his WWE career. At Survivor Series, which Team Raw won, Lashley was among the sole survivors along with Braun Strowman and Drew McIntyre. Afterwards, he reignited his feud with Elias, this included a ladder match with a guitar hanging above the ring at which Lashley lost, but after the match used the guitar on Elias. This sparked a Miracle on the 34th Street Fight type of match between the two, in which Lashley was defeated. On the January 14, 2019 episode of \"Raw\", Lashley won the Intercontinental Champion for the first time in his career, from Dean Ambrose in a triple threat match that also involved Seth Rollins, beginning his first title reign in WWE since June 2007. At Royal Rumble, Lashley entered the Royal Rumble match as the 26th entrant, but was eliminated in thirteen seconds by Seth Rollins. At Elimination Chamber, Lashley lost his title to Finn Bálor in a handicap match also involving Lio Rush after Rush was pinned, ending his reign at 34 days. Lashley teamed with Baron Corbin and Drew McIntyre against The Shield in a losing effort at Fastlane. The following night on \"Raw\", Lashley defeated Finn Bálor, following interference from Lio Rush, to capture the Intercontinental Championship, thus beginning his second reign. On the March 25 edition of \"Raw\", Lashley teamed with Jinder Mahal to face Finn Bálor in a handicap match. Bálor won the match by pinning Mahal, and as per the match stipulation, earned himself an Intercontinental Championship rematch against Lashley for WrestleMania 35. At the event, Lashley lost the title to Bàlor, ending his reign at 27 days.\n\nAt The Shield's Final Chapter event, Lashley teamed with Baron Corbin and Drew McIntyre to face The Shield in a losing effort. Lashley lost to Braun Strowman at Super ShowDown. On the June 17 episode of \"Raw\", Strowman eliminated Lashley from a fatal five-way elimination match for an opportunity at the United States Championship; Lashley in turn helped in getting Strowman eliminated. The following week, Lashley attacked Strowman after losing a tug of war match. A falls count anywhere match on the July 1 episode ended in a no contest after Strowman tackled Lashley through the LED video wall of the entrance and both were taken to a local hospital. Following this, the two were scheduled for a Last Man Standing Match at Extreme Rules, which Lashley lost.\n\nAfter a two-month hiatus, Lashley returned on the September 30 episode of \"Raw\", by interrupting a match between Rusev and Seth Rollins. Lashley shared a kiss with Lana, who is Rusev's wife. This distraction started a feud where the pair would torment Rusev, being seen together in numerous romantic situations. Eventually, at , he defeated Rusev in a Tables Match after a distraction from Lana. During Super ShowDown he participated at a gauntlet match for the Tuwaiq Trophy but he was eliminated by R-Truth. At WrestleMania 36 on night two of the event Aleister Black defeated Bobby Lashley.\n\nLashley made his mixed martial arts debut at the Mixed Fighting Alliance (MFA) inaugural event \"There Will Be Blood\" on December 13, 2008 at the American Airlines Arena in Miami, Florida. He won via TKO (cut) over Joshua Franklin in 41 seconds of the first round. Lashley's next fight was on March 21, 2009. He was supposed to fight Ken Shamrock, but his opponent was changed to Bellator MMA veteran Jason Guida after Shamrock tested positive for steroids. Lashley won the fight after a unanimous decision. Lashley signed with the Maximum Fighting Championship and made his debut on 15 May against Mike Cook, who made his ring entrance wearing a Rey Mysterio mask, which Lashley took as an insult. He went on to defeat Cook with a guillotine choke just 24 seconds into the first round. On June 27, 2009, Lashley defeated Bob Sapp at the PFP: Ultimate Chaos event in Biloxi, Mississippi. He won the bout via TKO (strikes) in the first round, making Lashley's MMA record 4–0.\n\nHe was scheduled to make his Strikeforce debut against undefeated heavyweight Shane Del Rosario at , but for unknown reasons, Strikeforce decided to change his opponent. Lashley was then expected to face journeyman Jimmy Ambriz on January 30, 2010 at , but that matchup was also scrapped. Lashley wound up facing former UFC fighter Wes Sims at the event. Lashley defeated Sims via 1st-round TKO victory to remain undefeated.\n\nLashley was expected to fight on April 17, 2010 at , as the promotion had already submitted an opponent for Lashley and was awaiting approval from the Tennessee Athletic Commission. According to Strikeforce CEO Scott Coker, the bout would likely be the fourth bout on the CBS televised portion of the event. On April 5, Lashley confirmed that he will not appear on the card since Strikeforce officials could not guarantee an appearance on the televised portion of the card due to time constraints. Bobby was set to appear at in June fighting Ron Sparks however he suffered a knee injury and did not compete.\n\nLashley faced Chad Griggs at on August 21, 2010. Lashley came out shooting the takedown, and ground and pounding. Lashley dominated at first, but Griggs caught him with a series of uppercuts on one of the takedowns in the first round, opening a gash under the left corner of Lashley's left eye. Lashley had trouble keeping Griggs from striking him, even though he had dominate control over him on the ground, but Griggs was still finding openings on the bottom. Lashley was able to continue in the second round, continuing takedowns and ground and pound. Lashley eventually passed to mount halfway through the second round and unloaded many good punches on Griggs while maintaining control. Referee Jon Schorle then asked the fighters to stand up due to inactivity, despite Lashley being in full mount at the time. Lashley later complained to the referee about the cut under his eye, and with 33 seconds left in the second round, referee Jon Schorle asked the ringside doctor to inspect the cut. However, with Lashley deciding to continue fighting, controversy was created when referee Jon Schorle did not put Lashley back in the mount position as he was when the fight was originally stopped. Griggs then sprawled out of a desperate takedown by Lashley near the end of round two and hammer-fisted Lashley's eye that was already cut until the round ended. The ring doctor then stopped the fight, resulting in Lashley losing at the end of the second round by TKO. Backstage after the fight, Lashley was taken off on a stretcher due to dehydration. Following the fight it was discovered that Lashley was suffering from mono and was subsequently unable to train for four months.\n\nOn February 18, 2011, Titan Fighting Championship had announced the signing of Lashley. He was expected to debut against James Jack however on March 16, 2011, officials announced they had lost contact with Jack and instead John Ott stepped in to fight Lashley. The pace of the fight slowed down drastically in the second round, where Lashley began to display the same cardio problems that affected him in his previous fight. He was able to win a unanimous decision, despite suffering the effects of illness.\n\nLashley was scheduled to fight Eddie Sanchez at Titan Fighting Championships 19. But on July 22, 2011, it was announced that Lashley withdrew from the fight due to personal reasons.\n\nLashley defeated Kevin Asplund at Titan Fighting Championships 25 on June 7, 2013 winning via keylock submission.\n\nLashley has signed a three-year deal with Shark Fights and was expected to make his debut against Darrill Schoonover in November, The fight was to be for the heavyweight title. However Schoonover later pulled out of the bout due to an injury. Lashley was then set to headline Shark Fights 21 against Tim Hague. But Hague pulled out of the bout for unknown reasons and was replaced by Dave Huckaba. On November 7 it was confirmed that the fight with Huckaba had been scrapped for unknown reasons, Lashley was then scheduled to face Mark Martinez but Martinez was later pulled out of the bout due to expired blood work.\n\nOn November 11, 2011 Lashley became the new Shark Fights Heavyweight champion defeating Karl Knothe in the first round by submission. Knothe was the fifth different opponent scheduled to face Lashley after numerous fighters pulled out due to various reasons.\n\nHe next competed at India's Super Fight League's third event, SFL 3, against James Thompson. Lashley lost the fight via unanimous decision.\n\nLashley was scheduled to face Matthew Larson at GWC: The British Invasion: U.S. vs. U.K. on June 29, 2013. Lashley won via rear naked choke submission in round one. In an interview with MMA Junkie the day prior to his GWC fight, Lashley indicated that he had two potential fights lined up for August 2013, saying \"If I'm going to fight, I need to fight. I need to stay active. I need to do something big now. If not, I need to hang it up and just do stuff with my gym. I'm fighting this fight, and I think I have two in August that were offered to me. Hopefully if I don't get hurt, I can stay active and just keep going.\"\n\nLashley fought at Xtreme Fight Night 15: Indestructible on November 8, 2013 against Tony \"The Rock\" Melton, which he won via unanimous decision.\n\nIn July 2014, it was announced that Lashley had signed with Bellator MMA. He made his promotional debut against Josh Burns on September 5, 2014 at Bellator 123. Lashley won the fight via rear-naked choke submission in the second round.\n\nIn his second fight for the promotion, Lashley faced undefeated Karl Etherington on October 24, 2014 at Bellator 130. He won via submission due to punches, in the first round.\n\nA rematch with James Thompson was scheduled to take place at Bellator 134 on February 27, 2015; however, Lashley pulled out of the fight due to injury. In March 2015, Lashley signed a long-term contract extension with the promotion. The fight with Thompson was rescheduled for Bellator 138 on June 19, 2015; however, an injury forced Thompson out of the bout and Lashley instead faced Dan Charles at the event. He won the fight via TKO in the second round. The rematch with Thompson eventually took place on November 6, 2015 at Bellator 145. Lashley won the fight via TKO in the first round.\n\nOn August 29, 2016, it was announced that Lashley would face Josh Appelt on October 21, 2016 at Bellator 162. Lashley won via rear-naked choke submission in the second round. In April 2018, Bellator officials stated Lashley was still under contract with Bellator after his WWE return.\n\nLashley has a daughter, Kyra, who was born in 2005. He dated former WWE Diva Kristal Marshall, with whom he has a son named Myles in July 2008 and a daughter named Naomi born in 2011.\n\nLashley has also been involved in several business ventures. In 2007, Lashley opened up a shop that sells health smoothies. In July 2009, Lashley announced the launch of The Lashley Network. The Lashley Network of websites comprises his official gym, his official nutrition store, and his social networking website. In a press release for the launch he stated that he is keeping his name out in the television media and on the internet so he can reach his goal of being the top fighter in MMA. \n\nLashley is featured in the video games \"WWE SmackDown vs Raw 2007\" and \"WWE SmackDown vs Raw 2008\". Lashley made his first appearance in a WWE video game in 11 years appearing as a downloadable character for \"WWE 2K19\".\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2234588", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234588", "title": "Ice Cream Castle", "text": "Ice Cream Castle\n\nIce Cream Castle is a 1984 album by The Time. Similar to their previous two albums, this album consists of six tracks in the funk-pop or ballad genre and it was produced and arranged by Prince as \"The Starr ★ Company\".\n\nThe album's two biggest hits, \"Jungle Love\" and \"The Bird\", were featured in the film \"Purple Rain\" and this, along with Day's performance in the movie, catapulted the album up the charts and to a crossover audience. The band didn't have time to enjoy the success, as they had disbanded by the time the movie was released.\n\n\"Ice Cream Castle\" produced three singles: \"Ice Cream Castles\", \"Jungle Love\", and \"The Bird\".\n\nSessions for the album began in late March 1983, at Sunset Sound, in Hollywood (while Prince and The Time were still on the 1999 Tour), beginning with \"Jungle Love.\" \"Chili Sauce\" (under its original title, \"Proposition #17\") and \"If The Kid Can't Make You Come\" followed in mid-April 1983. Although Prince played the majority of the studio instrumentation on the album, members of The Time, particularly Jesse Johnson, made some contributions.\n\n\"The Bird\" was recorded live by the band in early October 1983 at First Avenue in Minneapolis, after a studio recording was made earlier in 1983, but the live version was chosen for release instead. \"Ice Cream Castles\" and \"My Drawers\" were the final tracks recorded for the album in mid-January 1984.\n\nOther tracks recorded and considered for the album included \"My Summertime Thang\" (recorded in late March 1983, and later released on The Time's fourth album \"Pandemonium\"). \"Cloreen Baconskin\" was recorded during the same two-day session in late March 1983, with Morris Day on drums, but isn't believed to have been intended for the album.\n\nLater tracks considered for the album include \"Chocolate\" (released on \"Pandemonium\"), \"My Love Belongs to You\" and \"Velvet Kitty Cat\" (released on the deluxe edition of Purple Rain), all recorded in mid-April 1983.\n\nThe album peaked at number 24 on the \"Billboard\" 200 and number three on the Top Soul LPs charts. The album spent a total of 57 weeks on the US \"Billboard\" album charts and had reached its peak position in early March 1985. The album was eventually certified platinum by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA) for sales of over a million copies in the United States. This remains the group's best selling album to date.\n\nNote that the original label gave writing credits to Morris Day (or Morris Day and Jesse Johnson) for all six songs. However, the songs were officially registered with ASCAP as being written by Prince, or by Prince and Morris Day, which is from where the official writing credits have been sourced.\n\n\n\n\nwith:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2234591", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234591", "title": "Willock", "text": "Willock\n\nWillock is a surname. People having this surname include\n\n"}
{"id": "2234592", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234592", "title": "Other Minds (organization)", "text": "Other Minds (organization)\n\nOther Minds is a San Francisco based private 501 (c) (3) not-for-profit organization, founded in 1992 by Charles Amirkhanian (who serves as Executive and Artistic Director) and Jim Newman (President Emeritus). According to their mission statement: Other Minds, Inc., is dedicated to the encouragement and propagation of contemporary music in all its forms through concerts, workshops and conferences that bring together artists and audiences of diverse traditions, generations and cultural backgrounds. By fostering cross-cultural exchange and creative dialogue and by encouraging exploration of areas in new music seldom touched upon by mainstream music institutions, Other Minds is committed to expanding and reshaping the definition of what constitutes \"serious music.\". The name \"Other Minds\" has been attributed by Jim Newman to an anonymous obituary that ran in the New Yorker in 1992 which stated that John Cage \"...composed music in other people's minds.\"\n\nOther Minds has achieved wide recognition and acclaim including the ASCAP award in 2009 for adventurous programming and the American Music Center's 2005 letter of distinction for service to American composers.\n\nSince 1993 they have presented an annual concert series featuring a wide range of composers from every part of the world, some well-known, some rising stars who reflect the aesthetic of Other Minds. These concerts are produced in conjunction with an artist residency retreat held at the Djerassi Resident Artists Program in Woodside, California just south of San Francisco in which that year's artists have an opportunity to share their work with each other prior to the festival performances. \n\nIn addition Other Minds organizes occasional concerts and events known as \"New Music Seances\" in various venues in the Bay Area throughout the year featuring live performances with local artists of music by undeservedly lesser known past masters such as Henry Cowell, Ruth Crawford, Dane Rudhyar, Alan Hovhaness and Lester Bowie. \n\nThe annual concert series usually occurs in early March and is currently being held at the Taube Atrium Theater and the Yerba Buena Center for the Arts Theater. \n\nComposers represented in the annual festival have included such artists as Meredith Monk, Muhal Richard Abrams, Terry Riley, Philip Glass, Frederic Rzewski, Margaret Leng Tan, Henry Brant, Conlon Nancarrow, Robert Ashley, Pauline Oliveros, Lou Harrison, Laurie Anderson, LaMonte Young, Leroy Jenkins, Janice Giteck, Kyle Gann, Olly Wilson, William Parker, Gavin Bryars, Michael Nyman, Brian Eno and many others. Henry Brant's Pulitzer Prize winning \"Ice Field\" from 2001 was an Other Minds commission. Grawemeyer Award winner Louis Andriessen was recently featured as was MacArthur Fellow Jason Moran.\n\nSince 2000, Other Minds has been involved in preserving audiovisual materials which includes an extensive audio collection from the KPFA Music Dept. Archives, as well as the organization's own programming collection. In 2002 Other Minds inaugurated a free online archive called radiOM, where users can access hundreds of hours of archival audio material including interviews with prominent composers of our time, past OM festival performances, examples of sound poetry, and much more.\n\nMusic from Other Minds is a weekly program produced and hosted by Charles Amirkhanian and Other Minds staff. It is broadcast on San Francisco radio station KALW and features a wide variety of international new music common to the mission of Other Minds. Weekly programs are also accessible as an mp3 stream from the program website at the time of broadcast and for at least a week thereafter.\n\nOther Minds also has a record label, with a continually expanding catalog of CDs and DVDs. Some of the releases are of recordings from the now defunct 1750 Arch Records such as '10+2:12 American Text Sound Pieces' and the first complete recording (and the only recording done on his own instruments in his Mexico City studio) of Conlon Nancarrow's Player Piano Studies. Other releases include new recordings like 'FIRST LIFE The Rare Early Works' (world premieres of music by Marc Blitzstein). \n\nCurrent efforts are being made to release some long out of print recordings of American music by pianist Maro Ajemian and violinist Anahid Ajemian. They also stock a selection of contemporary music CDs and related books and scores from other publishers.\n\nOther Minds also has an annual digital release series called Modern which is focused on unearthing archival works by the unsung pioneers of electronic music from the Bay Area and beyond.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2234597", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234597", "title": "Into the Great Wide Open", "text": "Into the Great Wide Open\n\nInto the Great Wide Open is the eighth studio album by American rock band Tom Petty and the Heartbreakers, first released in 1991. The album was the band's last with MCA Records. The album was the second Petty produced with Jeff Lynne after the success of \"Full Moon Fever\".\n\nThe first single, \"Learning to Fly\", became the band's joint longest-running No. 1 single (along with \"The Waiting\" from 1981's \"Hard Promises\") on \"Billboard\"s Mainstream Rock Tracks chart, spending six weeks at the top spot. The second single, \"Out in the Cold\", also made No. 1 on the Mainstream Rock chart, albeit for two weeks.\n\nThe music video for the title song stars Johnny Depp as \"Eddie\", who moves to Los Angeles as a teenager to seek rock stardom, along with Gabrielle Anwar, Faye Dunaway, Matt LeBlanc, Terence Trent D'Arby and Chynna Phillips.\n\n\"Into the Great Wide Open\" was warmly received by critics. Dave DiMartino, reviewing the album for \"Entertainment Weekly\", said that the album was the closest \"classic\" album Petty and the band had made in 15 years, saying that the album was a return to their first two albums. He feels that this is due largely to Jeff Lynne and that the songs are better than the ones on \"Full Moon Fever\". \"Rolling Stone\" critic Parke Puterbaugh called the album a cross between \"Full Moon Fever\" and \"Damn the Torpedoes\", said that it features Petty's best lyrics and that it is much better than \"Let Me Up (I've Had Enough)\". Stephen Thomas Erlewine of AllMusic was less impressed, saying that \"Into the Great Wide Open\" sounds too much like \"Full Moon Fever\". He said that the album was \"pleasant\" but was not his best. In his Consumer Guide, Robert Christgau gave the album a one-star honorable mention, indicating \"a worthy effort consumers attuned to its overriding aesthetic or individual vision may well like\".\n\nAt the end of the cassette format of Side One, there is a brief spoken interlude by Tom Petty. It is a tongue-in-cheek reference to the \"Hello CD Listeners\" interlude from \"Full Moon Fever\", this time instructing cassette listeners on how to properly flip over their tape and prepare it for side 2.\n\nThe first single \"Learning to Fly\" was released prior to the album in June 1991, and was a big hit for Tom Petty. The second single, the title track, was released shortly after the album's release and is also one of the band's biggest hits. They were both top 10 singles on various charts. The third single \"Out in the Cold\" was a minor hit, although it did not achieve the commercial success of the first two. Throughout 1992, four other singles were released; \"Makin' Some Noise\", \"All Or Nothin'\" \"Too Good To Be True\" and \"King's Highway\".\n\nAll tracks written by Tom Petty and Jeff Lynne, except where noted.\n\nSide one\n\n\nSide two\n\n\nTom Petty and the Heartbreakers\n\nAdditional musicians\n\n\nAdditional personnel\n\n"}
{"id": "2234598", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234598", "title": "July 23 (Eastern Orthodox liturgics)", "text": "July 23 (Eastern Orthodox liturgics)\n\nJuly 22 - Eastern Orthodox Church calendar - July 24\n\nAll fixed commemorations below are celebrated on August 5 by Old Calendar.\n\nFor July 23rd, Orthodox Churches on the Old Calendar commemorate the Saints listed on July 10.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nGreek Sources\nRussian Sources\n"}
{"id": "2234622", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234622", "title": "1873–74 in English football", "text": "1873–74 in English football\n\nThe 1873–74 season was the third season of competitive football in England. Oxford University beat the Royal Engineers 2–0 in the FA Cup\n\n<nowiki>*</nowiki> England score given first\n\nKey\n\n"}
{"id": "2234623", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234623", "title": "Asylum (Kiss album)", "text": "Asylum (Kiss album)\n\nAsylum is the 13th studio album by the American rock band Kiss, released in September 1985. The album marked a continuation of the glam metal sound of preceding album \"Animalize\".\n\n\"Asylum\" is the first album to feature lead guitarist Bruce Kulick as an official band member. Kulick had replaced former guitarist Mark St. John on some tracks on the previous album \"Animalize\" (1984) during the latter's absence due to reactive arthritis. Subsequently, Kulick filled St. John's spot during most segments of the \"Animalize\" tour. This new lineup of Paul Stanley, Gene Simmons, Eric Carr, and Kulick would last until Carr's death in November 1991, while Kulick would stay with the band until the reunion of the original lineup in 1996.\n\nThe album cover depicts the four band members with colored lips, mirroring the colors of the 1978 solo releases: red for Simmons, purple for Stanley, blue for Kulick (replacing Frehley) and green for Carr (replacing Peter Criss). The artwork for the back cover is similarly stylised and colourful, depicting Kiss against a white background. The cover art of the remastered 1997 CD release of \"Asylum\" featured slightly altered, bolder colours than that of the original release.\n\nThe supporting Asylum Tour ran throughout North America from November 1985 to April 1986. The tour featured the largest light-up Kiss logo the band has ever used, as well as one of the largest lighting rigs. No concert footage of the tour was used in the \"\" DVD release, except for short clips without sound in the background of the main menu. \"Tears Are Falling\" is the only song on the album that has been played regularly in live performances beyond the Asylum Tour. However, like many Kiss songs of the mid-1980s, the track was rarely played live after the 1996 reunion of the original Kiss lineup, although it did feature in both 2004's Rock the Nation Live! DVD and 2014's Kiss Rocks Vegas live release.\n\n\"Tears Are Falling\" was the only track to be released for retail sales as a single and was a hit for the band, with the video in particular proving popular on MTV. A total of three music videos for the album were filmed on set in London, England, for the songs \"Who Wants to Be Lonely\", \"Uh! All Night\" and \"Tears Are Falling\" respectively.\n\nFan reaction to \"Asylum\" was mixed, although in recent years the album has come to be held in high regard among metal fans in particular. The album was certified Gold in November, 1985 by the RIAA, although it has long been rumored to be nearing the platinum level of sales.\n\nKiss\n\nAdditional musicians\n\nSingles – \"Billboard\" (North America)\n\nSingle – UK Singles Chart (United Kingdom)\n"}
{"id": "2234630", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234630", "title": "Colmán of Lindisfarne", "text": "Colmán of Lindisfarne\n\nColmán of Lindisfarne (c. 605 – 18 February 675 AD) also known as Saint Colmán was Bishop of Lindisfarne from 661 until 664.\n\nColman was a native of the west of Ireland and had received his education on Iona. He was probably a nobleman of Canmaicne. Colman succeeded Aidan and Finan as bishop of Lindisfarne, being appointed in 661. Colman resigned the Bishopric of Lindisfarne after the Synod of Whitby called by King Oswiu of Northumbria decided to calculate Easter using the method of the First Ecumenical Council instead of his preferred Celtic method.\n\nLater tradition states that between the years 665 and 667, Colman founded several churches in Scotland before returning to Iona. However, there are no seventh-century records of such activity by him. From Iona he sailed for Ireland, settling at Inishbofin in 668 AD where he founded a monastery, the School of Mayo. When Colman came to Mayo he brought with him half the relics of Lindisfarne, including the bones of St. Aidan and a part of the true cross. This was reputed to be in Mayo Abbey until its vanishment during the Reformation in 1537.\n\nColman was stepping into a landscape that had been decimated by the plague of 664-665. He may have been reviving an earlier church on the island or one in the area in central Connacht where Mag Éo was founded later. On Inishbofin a rift occurred between the Irish and the English \"because in summer the Irish went off to wander on their own around places they knew instead of assisting at harvest, and then, as winter approached, came back and wanted to share whatever the English monks had gathered.\"\n\nWhat was the reason for their intermittent absence? Earlier commentators suspected that the two nations came from different agricultural backgrounds and that the Irish intermittently removed themselves from the island with the monastery’s livestock for the purpose of ‘booleying’, a form of transhumance. It is also possible that the Irish visited their kinsfolk on the mainland. Returning to the island in winter, they helped to consume the fruits of the Saxons' labours. This situation inevitably led to tensions within the community. Disputes arose between the Saxon and Irish monks after a short time. Colman brought his Saxon followers onto the mainland and founded a monastery for them at \"Magh Eó\" - the Plain of Yew Trees, subsequently known as \"Mayo of the Saxons\".\n\nColman's last days were spent on the island of Inishbofin, where he died in 674. His feast is celebrated on 8 August and on 13 November.\n\n"}
{"id": "2234632", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234632", "title": "Maury Van Vliet", "text": "Maury Van Vliet\n\nMaurice Lewis (Maury) Van Vliet, (August 3, 1913 – April 4, 2001) was a USA-born Canadian academic who taught physical education and fitness.\n\nBorn in Bellingham, Washington, the son of Frank D. and Nellie (Booker) Van Vliet, he was raised in Monrovia, California. He played baseball and football at the University of Oregon where he received a B.Sc. in 1935. He received a Master of Science from the University of Oregon in 1940 and a Doctor of Education from the University of California, Los Angeles in 1951.\n\nHe declined an offer from the New York Yankees in order to accept the newly created position of physical education director at the University of British Columbia and started in 1935. He was a coach of the Varsity basketball, football, track, boxing, and wrestling teams.\n\nIn 1945, he moved to Edmonton, Alberta to become a professor. He was Head (1945 to 1954), Director (1954 to 1964), and Dean (1964 to 1975) of the Faculty of Physical Education and Recreation at the University of Alberta. He was the president and CEO of the organizing committee of the 1978 Commonwealth Games.\n\n"}
{"id": "2234634", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234634", "title": "Lorenzo Zepeda", "text": "Lorenzo Zepeda\n\nLorenzo Zepeda was President of El Salvador 1–7 February 1858.\n"}
{"id": "2234635", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234635", "title": "Miguel Santín del Castillo", "text": "Miguel Santín del Castillo\n\nMiguel Santín del Castillo (1830–1880) was President of El Salvador from 7 February 1858 to 7 June 1858, and again from 18 September 1858 to 19 January 1859. An army officer himself, he founded the Military Academy of San Salvador. At age 28, he was the youngest ever president of El Salvador.\n"}
{"id": "2234639", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234639", "title": "In God's Country", "text": "In God's Country\n\n\"In God's Country\" is a song by Irish rock band U2. It is the seventh track from their fifth studio album \"The Joshua Tree\" and was released as the album's fourth single in November 1987 in North America only.\n\n\"In God's Country\" was a difficult song for the band to record, which they attributed to not being trained musicians, and they do not speak very highly of it. During \"The Joshua Tree\" sessions, they knew it was not going be one of their best songs but they needed more uptempo songs. It was developed out of Bono's frustration at trying to get \"a bit of rock 'n' roll out of [U2 guitarist] the Edge\". Bono tried to inspire the Edge by teasing and playing on his competitive instincts by claiming to be a better guitarist. Of the song, Bono said \"[My] lyric was really good, the tune is pretty good, and the hook is pretty average - thanks to the Edge.\"\n\n\"In God's Country\" was recorded in the basement of the Edge's house, which producer Daniel Lanois called a \"muggy little room where everything sounds dead\" and \"not a particularly inspiring place\". Despite the location, he said the recording worked because of the \"spontaneity and lack of pressure\", which contributed to a good take, a quality Lanois favours to overplanning the recording setup. In producing the song, he used a collection of channels in the mixing console designated as sound treatments to adjust the tone of the Edge's guitar to give it a \"beautiful shimmer\", which he thought contributed to the song's mood. Lanois said, \"What was a fairly straightforward rock track is now undermined by a mood of unrest\", which inspired lead vocalist Bono to change his lyrics to give them more dimension.\n\nBono has stated that he originally didn't know whether the song was about Ireland or the United States, but eventually dedicated it to the Statue of Liberty. The song characterises the United States as a \"desert rose\" and a siren whose dress is torn in \"ribbons and bows,\" a depiction both \"sad and seductive\". The lyric speaks of a lack of political ideas in the West which Bono later contrasted to the revolution in Nicaragua where he had travelled during the recording of \"The Joshua Tree\". Along with \"Where the Streets Have No Name,\" the lyrics and sound of \"In God's Country\" reference the desert in accordance with the band's wish for \"The Joshua Tree\" to have a \"cinematic\" sense of location.\n\nPlayed in the key of D, the verses of the studio version alternates between D and A minor chords. The first chorus repeats an Em–G–D chord progression while the second chorus repeats a C–G–D progression.\n\n\"In God's Country\" was released as a single in Canada and the United States in November 1987. The cover art (photographed by Anton Corbijn), sleeve (designed by Steve Averill), and B-sides (\"Bullet the Blue Sky\" and \"Running to Stand Still\") were identical to those used for U2's 1988 single \"One Tree Hill,\" released only in New Zealand and Australia. The Canadian release was available on 7\", 12\" and cassette, while the US release was limited to 7\" only.\n\n\"In God's Country\" reached number 44 on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 and number 48 in the United Kingdom as an import. It was slightly more successful in Canada, peaking at number 25 in 1988. Sales of the single may have been hampered by the fact that its B-sides were two tracks from \"The Joshua Tree\" album instead of the usual non-album tracks. An abridged live version of the song recorded on the Joshua Tree Tour appeared on the band's 1988 rockumentary, \"Rattle and Hum\", but did not appear on the accompanying album of the same name.\n\nThe single's video appears on \"Outside it's America\", a documentary tracking the band's first few weeks on tour through the American Southwest in 1987. The music video visualized the Irish immigrant experience and the complexities of the American Dream. It was ultimately not released to MTV or other outlets.\n\n\"Hot Press\" editor and long-time U2 supporter, Bill Graham, described the song as \"... U2 cruising, a starter and not a main course ...\" and referring to the lyrical cliches, he said the song was \"... saved by the fact that [Bono] does Bono better than anybody else.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2234640", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234640", "title": "José María Peralta", "text": "José María Peralta\n\nJosé María Peralta (December 1807 – December 6, 1883) was born in San Salvador. He was President of El Salvador from 15 February to 12 March 1859. \n\nHe died in San Salvador.\n\n"}
{"id": "2234641", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234641", "title": "Iranian Americans", "text": "Iranian Americans\n\nIranian Americans or Persian Americans are U.S. citizens who are of Iranian ancestry or who hold Iranian citizenship.\n\nIranian Americans are among the most highly educated people in the United States. They have historically excelled in business, academia, science, the arts, and entertainment.\n\nMost Iranian Americans arrived in the United States after 1979, as a result of the Iranian Revolution and the fall of Persian monarchy, with over 40% settling in California, specifically Los Angeles. Unable to return to Iran, they have created many distinct ethnic enclaves such as Tehrangeles. The Iranian American community has become successful, with many becoming doctors, engineers, lawyers, and tech entrepreneurs.\n\nBased on a 2012 announcement by the National Organization for Civil Registration, an organization of the Ministry of Interior of Iran, the United States has the highest number of Iranians outside the country.\n\nIranian-American is used interchangeably with Persian-American, partly due to the fact that, in the Western world, Iran was known as \"Persia\". On the Nowruz of 1935, Reza Shah Pahlavi asked foreign delegates to use the term Iran, the endonym of the country used since the Sasanian Empire, in formal correspondence. Since then the use of the word \"Iran\" has become more common in the Western countries. This also changed the usage of the terms for Iranian nationality, and the common adjective for citizens of Iran changed from \"Persian\" to \"Iranian\". In 1959, the government of Mohammad Reza Shah Pahlavi, Reza Shah Pahlavi's son, announced that both \"Persia\" and \"Iran\" could officially be used interchangeably. The issue is still debated today.\n\nThere is a tendency among Iranian-Americans to categorize themselves as \"Persian\" rather than \"Iranian\", mainly to dissociate themselves from the Islamic regime of Iran which is in charge since 1979 Revolution, and also to distinguish themselves as being of Persian ethnicity, which comprise about 65% of Iran's population. While the majority of Iranian-Americans come from Persian backgrounds, there is a significant number of non-Persian Iranians such as Azeris and Kurds within the Iranian-American community, leading some scholars to believe that the label \"Iranian\" is more inclusive, since the label \"Persian\" excludes non-Persian minorities. The \"Collins English Dictionary\" uses a variety of similar and overlapping definitions for the terms \"Persian\" and \"Iranian\".\n\nOne of the first recorded Iranians to visit North America was Martin the Armenian, an Iranian-Armenian tobacco grower who settled in Jamestown, Virginia in 1618. Mirza Mohammad Ali, also known as Hajj Sayyah, was an Iranian who came to North America in the 1800s. He was inspired to travel around the world due to the contradiction between the democratic ideals he read about and how his fellow Iranians were treated by their leaders. He began his travels as a 23-year-old looking for knowledge, to experience the lives of others, and to use that knowledge to help with Iran's progress. His stay in the United States lasted 10 years, and he traveled across the country from New York to San Francisco. He met a variety of influential American figures including President Ulysses S. Grant, who met with him on several occasions. On 26 May 1875, Hajj Sayyah became the first Iranian to become an American Citizen. He was imprisoned upon his return to Iran for taking a stand against living conditions there. He looked to the United States to protect him but to no avail. During the peak period of worldwide emigration to the United States (1842–1903), only 130 Iranian nationals were known to have immigrated.\n\nThe first wave of Iranian migration to the United States occurred from the late 1940s to 1977, or 1979. The United States was an attractive destination for students, as American universities offered some of the best programs in engineering and other fields, and were eager to attract students from foreign countries. Iranian students, most of whom had learned English as a second language in Iran, were highly desirable as new students at colleges and universities in the United States. By the mid-1970s, nearly half of all Iranian students who studied abroad did so in the United States. By 1975, the Institute of International Education's annual foreign student census figures listed Iranian students as the largest group of foreign students in the United States, amounting to a total of 9% of all foreign students in the country. As the Iranian economy continued to rise steadily in the 70s, it enabled many more Iranians to travel abroad freely. Consequently, the number of Iranian visitors to the United States also increased considerably, from 35,088, in 1975, to 98,018, in 1977. During the 1977–78 academic year, of about 100,000 Iranian students abroad, 36,220 were enrolled in American institutions of higher learning. During the 1978–79 academic year, on the eve of the revolution, the number of Iranian students enrolled in American institutions rose to 45,340, and in 1979–80, that number reached a peak of 51,310. At that time, according to the Institute of International Education, more students from Iran were enrolled in American universities than from any other foreign country. The pattern of Iranian migration during this phase usually only involved individuals, not whole families. Due to Iran's increasing demand for educated workers in the years before the revolution, the majority of the Iranian students in America intended to return home after graduation to work, especially those who had received financial aid from the Iranian government or from industry on condition of returning to take jobs upon graduation. Due to the drastic events of the 1979 Revolution, the students ended up staying in the United States as refugees. These several thousand visitors and students unintentionally became the basis of the cultural, economic, and social networks that would enable large-scale immigration in the years that followed.\n\nThe second phase of Iranian migration began immediately before and after the Iranian Revolution of 1979 and the overthrow of the Shah Mohammad Reza Pahlavi, and became significant in the early 1980s. As Ronald H. Bayor writes, \"The 1979 Revolution and the 1980–88 war with Iraq transformed Iran's class structure, politically, socially, and economically.\" The revolution drastically changed the pattern and nature of Iranian emigration to the United States, while the Iran-Iraq War that ensued afterwards was also another factor that forced many of the best-educated and most wealthy families into exile in the United States and other countries. Once basically an issue of \"Brain drain\" during the Pahlavi period, it was now predominantly an involuntary emigration of a relatively large number of middle- and upper-class families, including the movement of a considerable amount of wealth. During and after the revolution, most students did not return to Iran, and those who did were gradually purged from the newly established Islamic Republic. Many students who graduated abroad after the revolution also did not return, due to ruling clergy's repression. As a result, the educated elite who left Iran after the revolution, and the new graduates in the United States who chose not to return home, created a large pool of highly educated and skilled Iranian professionals in the United States. By 2002, an estimated 1.5 to 2.5 million Iranians lived abroad, mainly in North America and Europe, due to the Islamic government's authoritarian practices.\n\nA further notable aspect of the migration in this phase is that members of religious and ethnic minorities were starting to become disproportionally represented among the Iranian American community, most notably Bahai'is, Jews, Armenians, and Assyrians. According to the 1980 US Census, there were 123,000 Americans of Iranian ancestry at that time. Between 1980 and 1990, the number of foreign-born people from Iran in the United States increased by 74 percent.\n\nThe third phase of Iranian immigration started in 1995 and continues to the present. According to the 2000 US Census, there were 283,225 Iranian-born people in the US. According to the same 2000 US Census, there were 385,488 Americans of Iranian ancestry at that time. The 2011 American Community Survey (ACS) estimate found 470,341 Americans with full or partial Iranian ancestry. However, most experts believe that this is a problem of underrepresenting due to the fact that \"many community members have been reluctant in identifying themselves as such because of the problems between Iran and the United States in the past two decades.\" and also because many were ethnic minorities (Jewish, Armenian, and Assyrian Iranians) who instead identify as the ethnic group they are part of rather than as Iranians. Estimates of 1,000,000 and above are given by many Iranian and non-Iranian organizations, media, and scholars. Kenneth Katzman, specialist in Middle Eastern affairs and part of the Congressional Research Service, in December 2015 estimated the number at over 1,000,000. Paul Harvey and Edward Blum of the University of Colorado and the University of San Diego in 2012 estimated their number at 1,000,000, as well as Al-Jazeera. According to the PAAIA (Public Affairs Alliance of Iranian Americans), estimates range from 500,000 to 1,000,000, numbers backed up by Ronald H. Bayor of the Georgia Institute of Technology as well. \"The Atlantic\" stated that there were an estimated 1,500,000 Iranians in the United States in 2012. The Iranian interest section in Washington, D.C., in 2003 claimed to hold passport information for approximately 900,000 Iranians in the US.\n\nToday, the United States contains the highest number of Iranians outside of Iran. The Iranian-American community has produced individuals notable in many fields, including medicine, engineering, and business.\n\nIn Los Angeles, Persians have become the largest ethnic group in many LA's wealthiest enclaves including Bel Air, Beverly Hills, Tarzana, Encino, and Woodland Hills.\n\nThe fall of the Shah resulted in many Iranians fleeing to America, where, forty years later, Iranian immigrants have become a major force in Silicon Valley as investors, executives, and creators. Iranians have been founders or senior executives at eBay, Oracle, World of Warcraft, Google, Dropbox, YouTube, Uber, Expedia, Twitter, and other major corporations.\n\nAfter surveying Fortune 500 companies researchers at MIT discovered that 50 Iranian-Americans held senior leadership positions at companies with more than $200 million in asset value.\n\nIranians have the highest percentage of master's degrees than any other ethnic group in the United States.\n\nIranians have also played a large role in the American education system with over 500 Iranian-American professors teaching at top-ranked U.S. universities which include MIT, Harvard, Yale, Princeton, Berkeley, UCLA, and Stanford.\n\nIranian philanthropists constructed the Freedom Sculpture in Century City in honor of the Persian artifact Cyrus Cylinder.\n\nAlthough Iranians have lived in the United States in relatively small numbers since the 1930s, a large number of Iranian-Americans immigrated to the United States after the Iranian Revolution of 1979. Data on this group is well documented by the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS). According to the 2000 US Census, there were 385,488 Americans of Iranian ancestry at that time. In the 2011 ACS, the number of Americans of full or partial Iranian ancestry amounted c. 470,341.\n\nFederal data on Iranian Americans in the Decennial Census is not according to race, but rather ancestry, which is collected by the annual American Community Survey (ACS). Data on Iranian ancestry from the annual ACS is available on the Census Bureau's American Factfinder website. Racially, on the Census, Iranian Americans are classified as a white American group.\n\nMost experts believe that the underrepresented number of Iranian Americans in the ACS is a problem due to the fact that \"many community members have been reluctant in identifying themselves as such because of the problems between Iran and the United States in the past two decades.\" Estimations of 1,000,000 and above are given by many Iranian and non-Iranian organisations, media, and scholars. Kenneth Katzman, specialist in Middle Eastern affairs and part of the Congressional Research Service, estimates their number at over 1,000,000 (published December 2015). Historians Paul Harvey and Edward Blum estimate their number at 1,000,000 (published 2012), as well as Al-Jazeera. According to the PAAIA (Public Affairs Alliance of Iranian Americans), estimates range from 500,000 to 1,000,000, numbers backed by Ronald H. Bayor of the Georgia Institute of Technology. \"The Atlantic\", in 2012, stated that there are an estimated 1,500,000 Iranians in the United States. The Iranian interest section in Washington D.C., in 2003, claimed to hold passport information for approximately 900,000 Iranians in the US.\n\nAccording to research done by the Iranian Studies Group, an independent academic organization at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT), Iranian Americans are most likely far more numerous in the United States than census data indicate. The group estimates that the number of Iranian Americans may have topped 691,000 in 2004—more than twice the figure of 338,000 cited in the 2000 U.S. census.\n\nRoughly half of the nation's Iranians reside in the state of California alone. Other large communities include New York/New Jersey, which have 9.1% of the U.S.'s Iranian population, followed by Washington, D.C./Maryland/Virginia (8.3%) and Texas (6.7%).\n\nApproximately 6,000–10,000 Iranian Americans reside in the city of Chicago, while up to 30,000 reside in the Chicago metropolitan area. Some of this population is Iranian Assyrian.\n\nKings Point, New York, a village in Great Neck, New York, is said to have the largest concentration of Iranians in the United States (nearly 30%). However, unlike the population in Los Angeles, the Great Neck population is almost exclusively Jewish.\n\nNashville, Tennessee has the largest Kurdish population in the United States, with many of them coming from Iran.\n\nIt is widely believed that most Iranian-Americans in the United States are clustered in the large cities of California, namely Greater Los Angeles, the San Francisco Bay Area, San Diego, Sacramento, and Fresno. According to extrapolated U.S. Census data and other independent surveys done by Iranian-Americans themselves in 2009, there were an estimated one million Iranian-Americans living in the U.S., with the largest concentration—about 300,000 people—living in the greater Los Angeles area. For this reason, the L.A. area, with its Iranian American residents, is sometimes referred to as \"Tehrangeles\" or \"Little Persia\" among Iranian-Americans. Regarding Iranian-Americans of Armenian origin, the 1980 US Census put the number of Armenians living in Los Angeles at 52,400, of whom 71.9% were foreign born: 14.7% in Iran, 14.3% in the USSR, 11.5% in Lebanon, 9.7% in Turkey, 11.7% in other Middle Eastern countries (Egypt, Iraq, Israel, etc.), and the rest in other parts of the world. Beverly Hills, Irvine, and Glendale all have large communities of Iranian Americans; 26% of the total population of Beverly Hills is Iranian Jewish, making it the city's largest religious community.\n\nIranian Americans have formed ethnic enclaves in many affluent neighborhoods mostly in the Los Angeles metropolitan area. In Los Angeles, Iranians were concentrated in Tarzana, West Hills, Hidden Hills, Woodland Hills, Beverly Hills, Calabasas, Brentwood, and Rancho Palos Verdes. \nTarzana has the highest concentration of Iranians in Los Angeles County.\n\nSecond generation Iranians located outside these concentrated cities showed high rates of marrying a non-Iranian and low literacy rates in Persian.\n\nIn San Diego County, La Jolla is considered a Persian enclave. Westlake village also held a large Iranian population and was the first American city to have an Iranian American mayor Iraj Broomand.\n\nTexas also has a large population of Iranian descent. And like California, Iranians in Texas are concentrated in the larger major cities of the state. Houston has the largest population of Iranians and Iranian expats, with an estimated 70,000 residents (50,000 in 1994), mainly due to the Texas Medical Center and the presence of large energy companies. Houston contains a Persian business district including shops and restaurants that has been dubbed \"Little Persia\" by the \"Houston Press\". There are many Iranian Zoroastrians and Bahá'ís living there.\n\nSome of the more well known residents of the Houston area in the past or present are Jasmin Moghbeli, Susan Roshan, Shawn Daivari, Farinaz Koushanfar, and Kavon Hakimzadeh (captain of the USS Harry Truman Naval aircraft carrier). Ibrahim Yazdi was a graduate of Baylor College of Medicine and Kamal Kharazi also is an alumnus of University of Houston. Hushang Ansary, an active philanthropist, has been a \"founding benefactor\" of the Houston Museum of Fine Arts. The George Bush Presidential Library has a gallery named after him. Iranians in Houston particularly came under the spotlight when Iranian student and activist Gelareh Bagherzadeh was murdered in Houston in 2012. The perpetrator, Ali Irsan, was later convicted and sentenced to death for the crime, an honor killing in retaliation against Bagherzadeh's encouragement of Irsan's daughter to leave Islam and marry a Christian man. The other notable Iranian in Texas that gained national attention in recent years was UT Austin's Omid Kokabee who was imprisoned in Iran for political reasons.\n\nThe Dallas-Fort Worth metropolitan area is estimated to have over 30,000 Iranian-Americans. Iran's first astronaut Anousheh Ansari for many years was a resident of Plano, Texas, a suburb of Dallas-Fort Worth. Dallas' Iranian community was large and influential enough to host US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo for a private visit in April 2019. And San Antonio and Austin each are said to have 3000-5000 Iranian American residents each, who are mostly attracted to large academic centers of excellence such as South Texas Medical Center and UT Austin or the climate of the Texas Hill Country area that is not un-similar to the southern Iran Zagros Mountains region. The largest concentration of Mandaeans from Khuzestan outside the middle east are settled in the San Antonio area. The Shah of Iran was also last hospitalized at San Antonio's Wilford Hall Ambulatory Surgical Center in Lackland Air Force Base during his last days. This is the same base that trained many pilots of Iran's Royal Air Force before the 1979 revolution.\n\nUnlike the population of Iran, a majority of Iranian Americans are non-Muslim due to the religious composition of those fleeing the Iranian Revolution, which included a disproportionate share of Iran's religious minorities, as well as subsequent ex-Muslim asylum seekers and other conversions away from Islam. Many Iranian Americans identify as irreligious or Shiite Muslim, but a full one-fifth are Christians, Jews, Baha’is, or Zoroastrians. Additionally, there are also some Iranian Mandaeans, but they are very small in number. According to Pew Research, about 22% of those who left Islam in the United States are Iranian Americans.\n\nA 2012 national telephone survey of a sample of 400 Iranian-Americans, commissioned by the Public Affairs Alliance of Iranian Americans and conducted by Zogby Research Services, asked the respondents what their religions were. The responses broke down as follows: Muslim 31%, atheist/realist/humanist 11%, agnostic 8%, Baha’i 7%, Jewish 5%, Protestant 5%, Roman Catholic 2%, Zoroastrian 2%, \"Other\" 15%, and \"No response\" 15%. The survey had a cooperation rate of 31.2%. The margin of error for the results was +/- 5 percentage points, with higher margins of error for sub-groups. Notably, the number of Muslims decreased from 42% in 2008 to 31% in 2012.\n\nAccording to Harvard University's Robert D. Putnam, the average Iranian is slightly less religious than the average American. In the book \"Social Movements in 20th Century Iran: Culture, Ideology, and Mobilizing Frameworks\", author Stephen C. Poulson adds that Western ideas are making Iranians irreligious.\n\nThere are religious and ethnolinguistic differences among the Muslim, Jewish, Baha'i, Zoroastrian, Christian, Armenian, Azerbaijani, Kurdish, and Assyrian groups. Calculating the percentage of Christian Iranian-Americans is difficult because most Iranian Christians are of Armenian or Assyrian origin; and, apart from identifying as Iranian, a number amongst them also strongly self-identifies as Armenian or Assyrian, rather than as (or apart from) Iranian.\n\nThe majority of Iranian-Americans are ethnic Persians, with sizeable ethnic minorities being Iranian Azerbaijanis, Iranian Armenians, Iranian Jews, Iranian Kurds, Iranian Assyrians, Iranian Turkmen, Iranian Baloch, Iranian Arabs, among others.\n\nAccording to Hakimzadeh and Dixon, members of religious and ethnic minorities such as Bahai'is, Jews, Armenians, and Assyrians were disproportionately represented amongst the early exiles of the 1978–79 revolution.\n\nAccording to DHS, in 2015, 13,114 people born in Iran were issued green cards, while 13,298 were issued one in 2016. In 2015, 10,344 Iranians became naturalized, with a further 9,507 in 2016. Nearly all Iranians who reside in the United States are either citizens (81%) or permanent residents (15%) of the United States (2008 survey). Iranian-Americans regard their culture and heritage as an important component of their day-to-day life and their overall identity within the United States.\n\nFour benchmarks are traditionally used to measure assimilation: language proficiency, intermarriage, spatial concentration, and socio-economic status. Per these criteria, one can determine with a significant degree of confidence that the Iranian-American community has made significant strides in successfully assimilating to a new culture and way of living. According to a survey commissioned by the Public Affairs Alliance of Iranian Americans (PAAIA) in 2008, only 21 percent of Iranian-Americans reported interacting mostly with other Iranian Americans outside of their workplace, demonstrating that most of them have successfully integrated into United States society.\n\nThe intermarriage rate is very high among Iranian Americans. It has been estimated that nearly 50 percent of Iranian-Americans who married between 1995 and 2007 married non-Iranian Americans. Research has furthermore indicated that Iranian-Americans who are Muslim are more open to intermarry than those who are members of religious or ethnic minorities, such as Jews and Armenians. Compared to men, Iranian women are less likely to mix or intermarry outside their group, which, according to the PAAIA, is likely because, as a group, they are more likely to adhere to traditional Iranian values, including making marriages that are approved by their families and are within Iranian cultural norms. Regarding language proficiency in the United States among its immigrant groups, the first generation principally speaks their native language, the second generation speaks both English and their parents' language, and the third generation typically speaks only English, while maintaining a knowledge of some isolated words and phrases from their ancestral tongue. The Iranian American community follows this pattern.\n\nCamp Ayandeh, sponsored annually by the Iranian Alliances Across Borders (IAAB), has attracted children of the Iranian diaspora from multiple nations with the intention of uniting Iranian youth following the mass migration after the fall of the Shah.\n\nAccording to Bayor, from the very beginning, Iranian immigrants differed from other arrivals in their high educational and professional achievements. According to Census 2000, 50.9 percent of Iranian immigrants have attained a bachelor's degree or higher, compared to a 28.0 percent national average. According to the latest census data available, more than one in four Iranian-Americans holds a master's or doctoral degree, the highest rate among 67 ethnic groups studied.\n\nA 1990 University of California, Los Angeles study showed that by virtue of education and occupation, native-born and Armenian-Americans of Iranian origin \"tend to have the highest socioeconomic status... while those from Turkey have the lowest\", although Turkish Armenians boast the highest rate of self-employment. In 1988, a \"New York Times\" article claimed that Middle Eastern Armenians, which includes Armenians from Iran, preferred to settle in Glendale, California, while Armenian immigrants from the Soviet Union were attracted to Hollywood, Los Angeles.\n\nA study regarding Americans of Armenian descent showed that Armenians from Iran (Iranian-Armenians) are known for quick integration into American society: for example, only 31% of Armenian Americans born in Iran claim not to speak English well, while those Armenians from other nations were shown to have less success at integrating.\n\nThe Small Business Administration (SBA) conducted a study that found Iranian immigrants among the top 20 immigrant groups with the highest rate of business ownership, contributing substantially to the U.S. economy. According to the report, there were 33,570 active and contributing Iranian American business owners in the U.S., with a 21.5% business ownership rate. The study also found that the total net business income generated by Iranian Americans was $2.56 billion. Almost one in three Iranian-American households have annual incomes of more than $100,000 (compared to one in five for the overall U.S. population). Ali Mostasahri, a founding member of the Iranian Studies Group, offers a reason for the relative success of Iranian-Americans compared to other immigrants. He believes that, unlike many other immigrants who left their home countries because of economic hardships, Iranians left due to social or religious reasons like the 1979 revolution. About 50 percent of all working Iranian Americans are in professional and managerial occupations, a percentage greater than any other group in the United States (Bayor, 2011).\n\nThe earliest Iranian people in the U.S. were mostly young trainees who worked as medical interns or residents. Some established themselves to continue practice beyond the residency stage. Their motives to extend their stay in the United States were more for professional than economic reasons. Researchers from Johns Hopkins University in 1974 reported, in the \"Journal of American Medical Association\", that, in 1971, the number of Iranian physicians in the U.S. was 1,625. The authors further studied the causes for immigration by sending questionnaire to all Iranian MDs in the United States. According to the 660 respondents, the main reasons for migration were mandatory two-years' military service, low salaries as compared to the United States, expensive housing, and socio-political reasons.\n\nIn 2013, another report was published, in the \"Archive of Iranian Medicine\" (AIM), saying that, post-revolution, the number of Iranian medical school graduates in the United States had grown to 5,045. Those who migrated to the U.S. after the 1979 revolution were mostly experienced physicians who came with their families and an intent to stay permanently. , there are 5,050 Iranian medical school graduates in the United States.\n\nPrior to the revolution, the 1,626 physicians migrated to the United States were 15% of all Iranian medical school graduates, while the 5,045 medical graduates who migrated post-Islamic Revolution represent only 5% of total Iranian medical graduates. This is not indicative of the entire United States, merely of the areas in which most of the Iranian-American population is concentrated.\n\nThough Iranian-Americans have historically excelled in business, academia, and the sciences, they have traditionally shied away from participating in American politics or other civic activities. Iranian-Americans don't seem to engage in American Politics; the fact that only 10 percent of them voted in the 2004 election, according to surveys in large American cities, is evidence of this.\nIn Los Angeles, Iranian Americans paid for a billboard to inform thousands of travelers on the 405 freeway of how the Iranian regime had murdered ten thousand political prisoners.\n\nAn August 2008 Zogby International poll, commissioned by the Public Affairs Alliance of Iranian Americans, found that approximately one-half of Iranian Americans identified themselves as registered Democrats, in contrast to one in eight as Republicans and one in four as independents (2008).\n\nThe same poll indicates that more than half of Iranian Americans cite domestic U.S. issues, including issues that are not unique to Iranian Americans, as the most important to them. In contrast, one quarter of Iranian Americans cite foreign policy issues involving U.S.-Iran relations and less than one-in-ten cite the internal affairs of Iran as being of greatest importance to them.\n\nFrom 1980 to 2004, more than one out of every four Iranian immigrants was a refugee or asylee. The PAAIA/Zogby poll cites that almost three-quarters of Iranian-Americans believe the promotion of human rights and democracy in Iran is the most important issue relating to U.S.-Iran relations. About the same percentage, however, believe diplomacy is the foreign policy approach towards Iran that would be in the best interest of the United States. 84% support establishing a U.S. Interest Section in Iran. Nearly all Iranian Americans surveyed oppose any U.S. military attack against Iran.\n\nAccording to a survey conducted in 2009, more than six in ten Iranian Americans have immediate family members in Iran, and almost three in ten communicate with their families or friends in Iran at least several times a week. An additional four in ten communicate with their families or friends in Iran at least several times a month. This study indicates an unusually close relationship between Iranian-Americans and Iranians.\n\nAs of 2013, U.S. laws require U.S. persons to obtain a license from the U.S. Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) to engage in transactions related to the sale of their personal property in Iran. Similarly, US persons will need a license from OFAC to open a bank account or transfer money to Iran.\n\nThe U.S. government does not have diplomatic or consular relations with the Islamic Republic of Iran and therefore cannot provide protection or routine consular services to U.S. citizens in Iran. The Swiss government, acting through its embassy in Tehran, serves as protecting power for U.S. interests in Iran. The Iranian government does not recognize dual citizenship and will not allow the Swiss to provide protective services for U.S. citizens who are also Iranian nationals. The Iranian authorities make the determination of a dual national's Iranian citizenship without regard to personal wishes. In 2016, the U.S. Department of State warned U.S. citizens of the risks of travel to Iran. In some instances, foreigners, in particular dual nationals of Iran and Western countries including the United States, have been detained or prevented from leaving Iran.\n\nMost Iranians accuse Jimmy Carter of being responsible for the Iranian revolution. Many expressed outraged when Carter won his Nobel Peace Prize.\n\nMany Iranians associate the Islamic rule in Iran with the nation's declining stature. As a result, Iranians have become largely secular both inside and outside Iran. Today Iranians have become infatuated with Iran's pre-Islamic Persian history, wearing the jewelry, necklaces, and rings symbolizing ancient Persian kings born before the rise of the Islamic prophet Mohammad.\n\nIranian houses are said to be decorated with elaborate furniture, ornate rugs, and primarily serve Persian food.\n\nIranian youth have been known to drive BMWs, Audis, and Mercedes.\n\nAccording to the Public Affairs Alliance of Iranian Americans, nearly half of Iranian-Americans surveyed in 2008 by Zogby International have experienced or personally know Iranian Americans who have experienced discrimination due to their ethnicity, religion, or country of origin. The most common types of discrimination reported are airport security check, social discrimination, racial profiling, employment or business discrimination and discrimination at the hands of immigration officials.\n\nIn 2009 Martin Kramer, a Harvard professor, warned about the dangers of allowing Iranian Americans to get too close to power during the 2009 American Israel Public Affairs Committee (AIPAC) conference:\n\nIn 2009 Merrill Lynch & Co. agreed to pay $1.55 million to resolve a U.S. government lawsuit accusing the bank of discriminating against an Iranian American employee. The government accused the firm of refusing to promote and later firing this employee on the basis of his national origin and religion.\n\nIn 2017 in the Kansas City suburb of Olathe, Adam Purinton shot and killed two Indians thinking that they were of Iranian descent. While murdering them Puriton yelled \"Get out of my country.\"\n\nIranians have been confused as Arabs by the media, government, and public. Iranians are known for their great pride in the Persian culture and language and according to the Orange County Register, \"nothing annoys Iranian-Americans more than being mistaken for Arabs.\"\n\nIn 2018, while on national television, having a discussion about taking a DNA test, Senator Lindsey Graham remarked that it would be \"terrible\" if he discovered he had Iranian heritage. Graham's statement outraged many high-profile Iranian-Americans, including Omid Kordestani (chairman of Twitter), Ali Partovi and Hadi Partovi (CEOs of Code.org), Pejman Nozad, and Christiane Amanpour.\n\nOn 8 September 2015, 22-year-old Iranian American Shayan Mazroei was stabbed to death by White supremacist Craig Tanber. Mazroei who resided in Laguna Niguel was a successful businessman operating his own car dealership in Santa Ana. On the night of 8 September 2015, Mazroei began discussing his mother visiting Iran to his girlfriend in a restaurant until Elizabeth Anne Thornburg spat on Mazroei shouting racial slurs. Craig Tanber then proceeded to stab Mazroei resulting in his death.\n\nIn 2020 the United States Border Patrol instituted a large scale detention of Iranian Americans at the Canadian border without probable cause. While returning to the US from Canada, Americans of Iranian heritage were detained by border officers. Over 60 Americans of Iranian descent were detained and interrogated at the Canadian border. The incident took place during a time of escalated tensions between Iran and the US.\n\nBusiness/technology: Iranian-Americans are among the most educated and successful communities in the U.S., according to a report by the Iranian Studies group at MIT. Iranian-Americans have founded, or hold senior leadership positions at, many major US companies, including Fortune 500 companies such as GE, Intel, Citigroup, Verizon, Motorola, Google, and AT&T. Pierre Omidyar, founder/CEO of eBay is of Iranian origin, as is the founder of Bratz, Isaac Larian. Hamid Biglari is Vice-Chairman of Citicorp. Bob Miner was the co-founder of Oracle Corporation and the producer of Oracle's relational database management system. In 2006, Anousheh Ansari, co-founder of the Ansari X Prize, became the first female tourist in space. Ansari is also the co-founder and former CEO of Prodea Systems, Inc., and Telecom Technologies, Inc. Other well known Iranian-American entrepreneurs include designer Bijan Pakzad, entrepreneur Sam Nazarian, business executive Hamid Akhavan, former CEO of Unify GmbH & Co. KG (formerly Siemens Enterprise Communications), Omid Kordestani of Twitter and former Senior Vice President of Google, CEO of YouTube Salar Kamangar, Sina Tamaddon of Apple Inc., and Shahram Dabiri Lead Producer for the massively multiplayer online role-playing game (MMORPG) \"World of Warcraft\" from 1999 to 2007.\n\nPhilanthropy: Many Iranian-Americans are active philanthropists and leaders in improving their community. In 2006, the University of Texas M. D. Anderson Cancer Center was the recipient of a $10 million donation from an Iranian-American couple based in Houston, Texas. The University of Southern California was the recipient of a $17 million gift from an Iranian-American, as was San Francisco State University which received a $10 million gift from an Iranian-American couple. Chicago's Swedish Covenant Hospital received $4 million; Portland State University, $8 million; and UC Irvine, $30 million.\n\nScience/academia: Well known Iranian-Americans in science include Firouz Naderi, a director at NASA; Ali Javan, inventor of the first gas laser; Maryam Mirzakhani, the first female winner of the Fields Medal; Nima Arkani-Hamed, a leading theoretical physicist; cancer biologist Mina J. Bissell; Gholam A. Peyman, the inventor of LASIK; Lotfi Asker Zadeh; Vartan Gregorian; Cumrun Vafa; Babak Hassibi; Nouriel Roubini; Ali Hajimiri; Pardis Sabeti; Vahid Tarokh; George Bournoutian; and Rashid Massumi, M.D., a pioneer in the fields of electrophysiology and cardiology. Prominent Iranian-Americans in American higher education include Rahmat Shoureshi, researcher, professor, and provost of New York Institute of Technology (NYIT) and Nariman Farvardin, president of Stevens Institute of Technology.\n\nMedia/entertainment: Well-known American media personalities of Iranian descent include Christiane Amanpour of ABC News and CNN; Daron Malakian, member of the rock band System of a Down; Susie Gharib, of \"Nightly Business Report\"; Asieh Namdar; Roya Hakakian; Yara Shahidi; and Rudi Bakhtiar. There are several Iranian American actors, comedians and filmmakers, including the Academy Award nominee and Emmy Award winner Shohreh Aghdashloo, actresses Tala Ashe, Catherine Bell, Sarah Shahi, Nadia Bjorlin, Nasim Pedrad, Desiree Akhavan, Sheila Vand, Necar Zadegan, and Bahar Soomekh, actors Adrian Pasdar and Aria Shahghasemi, comedians Max Amini and Maz Jobrani, filmmakers Bavand Karim and Kamshad Kooshan, producers Bob Yari and Farhad Safinia, author and performer Shahram Shiva, and artist and filmmaker Daryush Shokof. There are also notable American YouTube personalities of Iranian descent, including JonTron.\n\nSports: Professional tennis player Andre Agassi, NFL football players T. J. Houshmandzadeh, David Bakhtiari and Shar Pourdanesh, professional wrestlers Shawn Daivari and The Iron Sheik, professional mixed martial artist Amir Sadollah, professional soccer players Sobhan Tadjalli, Alecko Eskandarian and Steven Beitashour, and professional baseball player Yu Darvish.\n\nPolitics and Law: The son of the late Shah of Iran, Reza Pahlavi, lives in the United States, as well as several high-ranking officials in the Shah's administration, such as Hushang Ansary and Jamshid Amouzegar. Goli Ameri is the Under Secretary General for Humanitarian Affairs of the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies, as well as the former U.S. Assistant Secretary of State for Educational and Cultural Affairs from 2008 to 2009, during which she was the highest-ranking Iranian-American public official in the United States. Drug policy expert Kevin Sabet is Iranian-American and the only person to serve as an appointee in the drug czar's office of George W. Bush and Barack Obama. Beverly Hills elected its first Iranian-born Mayor, Jimmy Delshad, in 2007. Bob Yousefian served as the mayor of Glendale, California from 2004–2005. In November 2011, Anna M. Kaplan was elected Councilwoman in the Town of North Hempstead, New York, becoming the first Iranian-American to be elected to a major municipal office in New York State. Cyrus Amir-Mokri, who was appointed as the Treasury Department Assistant Secretary for Financial Institutions by President Obama, is the highest ranking Iranian-American official in government as of 2012. In November 2012, Cyrus Habib of Washington state and Adrin Nazarian of California became the first Iranian-Americans elected to state legislatures. Habib is now the Lieutenant Governor of Washington and the first Iranian-American elected to any statewide office. Champaign County (Ohio) elected Fereidoun Shokouhi to the public office of Champaign County Engineer in 1995. He served until his retirement in 2012.\n\nAzadeh Shahshahani is a human rights attorney based in Atlanta and is a former president of the National Lawyers Guild.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2234643", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234643", "title": "Warner Grand Theatre", "text": "Warner Grand Theatre\n\nThe Warner Grand Theatre is an historic movie palace that opened on January 20, 1931. It is located in San Pedro, Los Angeles, California, at 478 West 6th Street.\n\nThe design of the Warner Grand Theatre was a collaboration by architect B. Marcus Priteca and interior designer Anthony Heinsbergen, in the Art Deco—Moderne style. It was one of three similarly lavish Los Angeles area Art Deco movie palaces on which Priteca and Heinsbergen collaborated for the Warner Bros. company in the early 1930s. The others were located in Beverly Hills and Huntington Park. Priteca later designed Hollywood's famous Pantages Theatre.\n\nThe Warner Beverly Hills Theatre has been demolished, and the Huntington Park Warner, closed for many years, has been extensively altered, leaving the Grand as the last of the three original theaters remaining intact. By the mid-1990s it had suffered a lengthy period of neglect, despite having been declared a historical and cultural monument of the city in 1982. \n\nThe theater was facing possible demolition or re-development when, in 1995, a local group of activists formed the Grand Vision Foundation to work for the preservation of the historic building. Their efforts were successful when the theater was purchased by the Cultural Affairs Department (later renamed the Department of Cultural Affairs) of the City of Los Angeles in 1996. Efforts to both restore and program the theater have been ongoing since the acquisition. That same year, the Grand Vision Foundation incorporated as a 501(c)(3) charitable corporation, to preserve and promote the Warner Grand Theatre. In 1999, the Warner was added to the National Register of Historic Places as building #98001633.\n\nWarner Grand Theatre currently hosts foreign films, art films, and family films presented by Cinema Grand, Grand Vision Foundation, the Los Angeles Harbor International Film Festival, and the San Pedro International Film Festival.\n\nJack L. Warner called it \"The Castle of Your Dreams\". The Warner Grand Theatre has also been used as a location in some movies, including \"Remote Control\" (1988), \"What's Love Got to Do with It\" (1993) and \"Pearl Harbor\" (2001).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2234644", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234644", "title": "The Accüsed", "text": "The Accüsed\n\nThe Accüsed is an American crossover thrash band from Seattle, Washington, founded in 1981. The band was a progenitor of the crossover style that bridged the gap between thrashcore and thrash metal, later influencing grindcore and some crust punk bands; as well as an influential band in the Seattle area alternative scene. The band calls their music \"splattercore\", and their zombie mascot, Martha Splatterhead, appears on most of their albums. Common themes involve social issues and the theme of Martha Splatterhead coming back from the dead to slaughter rapists and child molesters. The band name \"The ACCUSED\" is a United States Registered Trademark (#5674245)\n\nThe Accüsed was created in 1981 in Oak Harbor, Washington by bassist Chibon 'Chewy' Batterman; drummer Dana Collins; and guitarist Tommy Niemeyer. John Dahlin was the vocalist from 1982 to 1984. The band's first two demo cassettes and their album, \"Please Pardon Our Noise, It Is the Sound of Freedom\", released in 1983 drew heavily from hardcore punk. In 1984 the Fartz vocalist, Blaine Cook, replaced Dahlin.\n\nIn 1984 the band began adopting metal into their sound and dubbed their style \"splatter rock\", in 'homage' to their favorite genre of horror films. According to a review, \"Their hybrid musical formula was distinguishable by Cook's unusual choking-sound vocals, Niemeyer's muted, choppy, buzz-saw guitars, dark metallic riffs, and Dana Collins rapid-fire, double-kick drumming.\" The band also created the zombie mascot, Martha Splatterhead, whose likeness (created by Niemeyer) adorns most of their albums and many of their promotional items. A recurring theme in the band's lyrics involve Martha Splatterhead coming back from the dead to eviscerate and slaughter rapists and child molesters.\n\nThey released their first full EP, \"Martha Splatterhead\", in 1985 on their own Condar label. Their first full-length LP was \"The Return of Martha Splatterhead\", released on Subcore Records, and later re-released on Earache Records (the first mosh album), in 1986.\n\nAccording to reviewer Jeb Branin, \"I was writing for a zine in Canada called \"Northern Metal\" that reviewed the new LP \"The Return Of Martha Splatterhead\" giving it a 0.0 rating and absolutely crucifying it in the review. It is the only 0.0 review I remember ever seeing in \"Northern Metal\". They hated it so much I knew I had to buy it. As I suspected, the album was a masterpiece of hardcore hysteria.\"\n\nThe LPs \"More Fun Than an Open Casket Funeral\" and \"Martha Splatterhead's Maddest Stories Ever Told\" quickly followed, as well a number of other annual releases. Starting with \"Hymns For the Deranged\", the band also began working with Seattle producer Jack Endino, and their next album, \"Grinning Like An Undertaker\", with Josh Sinder now on drums, was released on Nastymix Records followed by the EP \"Straight Razor\".\n\nThe band maintained an active touring schedule, and according to a review, \"...live, The Accüsed were untouchable ... the whole band was a frenzy of epileptic gyrations, although Blaine's high flying leaps and bouncing off the walls like a deranged gnome were definitely the highlight ... even in today's underground you aren't going to find a more devastating band than The Accüsed.\"\n\nThe Accüsed took an 11-year hiatus in 1992, with members taking time to play in other Seattle bands, such as the Fartz and Gruntruck.\n\nThe Accüsed re-formed in 2003, playing live shows in the Seattle area, and in 2005 released the album \"Oh, Martha!\" on the band's CONDAR label. This \"comeback record\" landed on \"Revolver\" magazine's Top Ten Albums of the Year and writer's lists from \"Metal Maniacs\" magazine. \"Oh, Martha!\" followed the tradition of many earlier releases by The Accüsed in that it featured a track with a guest lead singer. In this case, guitarist Tommy Niemeyer sang lead vocals on the angry \"13 Letters\" (though no lead vocal credit was printed on the album). In 2006 a limited-edition, split 7\" with [[Whidbey Island], Washington's punk icons Potbelly was released. The Accüsed 2003 reunion line-up was short-lived, however, as a newly reformed version of the band surfaced in 2006, and yet another incarnation in Summer 2019.\n\nIn an interview with \"[[Rock-A-Rolla]]\", Tom Niemeyer stated that, during one of the band's many line-up changes, [[Mike Patton]] (of [[Mr. Bungle]]) was approached for the role of vocalist, with Patton ultimately declining Niemeyer's offer due to being \"totally booked up\". Patton did suggest Brad Mowen (ASVA, Burning Witch, Mommy, Master Musicians of Bukkake, et al.) who joined The Accüsed in 2006. The 'new' line-up released two new songs, via free download, \"Scotty Came Back\" and \"Fuck Sorry\", January 26, 2007.\n\nIn 2009, the band released their sixth full-length album, \"[[The Curse of Martha Splatterhead]]\", via [[Southern Lord Records]]. The album's first pressing sold-out quickly and received widespread critical praise, forcing Southern Lord Records into a hasty 2nd-pressing of the CD title only weeks after its release. In 2010, the band was included as a part of the soundtrack for [[Bandai Namco Entertainment|Namco Bandai Games]]' 2010 remake of [[Splatterhouse (2010 video game)|\"Splatterhouse\"]]. \n\nAs of April 28, 2019, the Accüsed are, according to founding member and guitarist, Niemeyer, \"...once again active; with new material slated to be released Summer 2019, as well as a vintage 1983 Live gig from [[Missoula]], Montana coming out on P.I.G. Records in 2019...\" Niemeyer stated The ACCUSED would also be performing live gigs in select markets accompanying both releases in the summer of 2019. After several line-up changes, the band \"...have returned with new songs, and releases of older, vintage material–both due out Summer 2019; with select LIVE appearances to follow...\" according to band founder and guitarist Tommy Niemeyer. Drummer, Josh Sinder, from The ACCUSED \"Grinning Like An Undertaker\" and \"Straight Razor\" releases, will team up with Niemeyer as the band prepared to move ahead in the years to come. \n\nIn 2019, a lineup of former members Blaine Cook, Alex Sibbald, Steve Nelson, and Steve McVay joined forces as \"The Accüsed A.D.\" They released a music video for \"Juego Terminado,\" a song from a forthcoming album.)\n\nDespite being frequently cited as an influence by other [[punk rock|punk]] and [[heavy metal music|metal]] bands, the Accüsed has largely remained in the [[underground music|underground]]. According to \"[[Sputnik Music]]\", \"It's a shame really [that] The Accüsed aren't recognized in the metal music industry as being one of the pioneering members of [[crossover thrash]]. These boys deserve more attention than they get.\"\n\n\n\n\nThe out-of-print back-catalog of The Accüsed's albums has been sporadically re-issued on various labels over recent years; a move prompted in part by the fact that many collectors of memorabilia by The Accüsed were seeing copies of the rare/out-of-print U.S.-made CDs fetch hundreds of dollars each on popular auction website [[eBay]].\n\n[[Category:American thrash metal musical groups]]\n[[Category:Musical quartets]]\n[[Category:Musical groups established in 1981]]\n[[Category:Musical groups disestablished in 1993]]\n[[Category:Hardcore punk groups from Washington (state)]]\n[[Category:Musical groups reestablished in 2003]]\n[[Category:Crossover thrash groups]]\n[[Category:Heavy metal musical groups from Washington (state)]]\n[[Category:Musical groups from Washington (state)]]"}
{"id": "2234645", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234645", "title": "Gerardo Barrios", "text": "Gerardo Barrios\n\nGerardo Barrios (September 24, 1813 – August 29, 1865) was President of El Salvador, from 12 March 1859 to 26 October 1863.\n\nBarrios was a liberal and supported the unity of Central America. He was, from a young age, part of the army of the last president of Federation of Central American Estates, Francisco Morazan. After his death he became the leader or the unionist movement.\nHe served as president of El Salvador several times - in 1858 in acting capacity, from 1859 to 1860 in acting capacity and again from 1860 to 1863. He was known for his concern for international relations and is attributed for introducing coffee production to El Salvador, accelerating the spread through Central America. Coffee became the basis of El Salvador's economy.\nBetween 1860 and 1863, Barrios launched a reorganization of the public finances and promoted the coffee production and silk-elaboration related activities. He also created a professional armed force, and favored non-religious public education. In his first years of government he looked for a pacific convivance with Guatemala, which made him visit that country in 1860. However, conflicts were not absent, especially with the church.\n\nOne of the first incidents was the expulsion of three Capuchin friars. In 1860, conflicts escalated when the clerk represented by bishop Tomás Pineda y Zaldaña, denied to accept the Constitution on the Republic, claiming that none of the priests were committed to obey the government, because the only authority above all earth is God, the bishop and the Pope.\n\nConservatives felt outraged by Barrios, claiming he was anti-clerical, despotic and liberal. Many conservatives, including bishop Pineda y Zaldaña, had to look for shelter in Guatemala and from there they launched a newspaper campaign against the Salvadoran government. In 1861 attacks were strong, and even worse, a confrontational climate began to grow between the two countries. Particularly because of Guatemala's President aspirations to become the controller of Central America.\n\nIn 1863, after a few border skirmishes El Salvador declared war on Guatemala, and on June 19 Guatemalan troops began invading El Salvador. On October 26, after a long siege, Carrera took over San Salvador, taking full control of the city. The same year Barrios escaped to San Miguel. With Carrera's approval, Francisco Dueñas installed himself as a president and won the 1865 elections.\n\nAs a constitutional president, he promoted a trial against Barrios, who was captured in Nicaragua on July 27 and extradited to El Salvador the same week. The court martial began on August 10, and he was sentenced to death on August 28; the execution took place the following day.\n\nIn 1910 he was officially granted a title of 'national hero' for his heroic efforts to protect the rights of the farming communities as well as leading his military triumphs to protect Central America from foreign invasions.\nHis name has been honored by naming national institutions, two cities (Ciudad Barrios and San Gerardo), and a major street after him, as well as having his life taught at schools.\n"}
{"id": "2234646", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234646", "title": "1874–75 in English football", "text": "1874–75 in English football\n\nThe 1874–75 season was the fourth season of competitive football in England.\n\nEngland and Scotland met again in a 2–2 draw at the Kennington Oval\n"}
{"id": "2234649", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234649", "title": "Santiago González (politician)", "text": "Santiago González (politician)\n\nSantiago González Portillo (25 July 1818 – 1 August 1887) was a general from El Salvador. \nHe served as President of El Salvador from 15 April 1871 to 1 February 1876, and as Vice President and commander-in-chief of the army during the term of his successor, Andrés del Valle.\n\nHe served as the minister of war of El Salvador from 1863 to April 1871. He led a revolution in 1871 in which the conservative government was overthrown, and he amended the constitution.\n"}
{"id": "2234651", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234651", "title": "Andrés del Valle", "text": "Andrés del Valle\n\nAndrés del Valle Rodríguez (30 November 1833 – 28 June 1888) was President of El Salvador from February 1 until May 1, 1876.\n\nHis father Fernando del Valle was born in Santander and had made his fortune in trade and agriculture. Andrés del Valle was a member of the constitutional assembly from 1872 until 1873. In 1874 he became senator for the Santa Ana Department. In 1875, he was vice-chairman of the Senate and chairman of the parliament. On March 1, 1875 the parliament called for elections on the first Sunday of December that year.\n\nAndres was elected for the administration between February 1, 1876 and February 1, 1880. His vice-president was the predecessor, Santiago González. A government loan of a half a million USD was enforced on the same day.\n\nJusto Rufino Barrios Auyón, then president of Guatemala, was skeptical, because Santiago González supported political refugees from Guatemala. He also suspected Ponciano Leiva from Honduras to be planning to overthrow him.\n\nBarrios let Valle know, that in case he planned to continue this course, he would see to it that the Guatemalan government would support José María Medina from Honduras in overthrowing Ponciano Leiva.\n\nThe government of El Salvador insisted on González's goodwill and a conference at the Volcán Chingo was agreed on, at which, with mediation of Marco Aurelio Soto, an agreement was signed.\n\nBarrios was convinced, González remained the actual head of state in El Salvador and insinuated him holding public speeches, as well as committing hypocrisy and treason.\n\nBarrios let 1.500 soldiers attack Honduras and led an army himself, which entered Salvador without a declaration of war from the West.\n\nOn March 20, 1876 the Guatemalan Secretary of War, Jose Maria Samayoa, declared all official relations with El Salvador as terminated, asserted that on March 27, 1876 troops from El Salvador had invaded Guatemala, declared war and gave Barrio absolute power for defending Guatemala's dignity. On March 26, 1876, the government of El Salvador declared the Friendliness- and Support act closed with Guatemala on January 24, 1872 for void. Barrio's plan was to directly attack El\nSalvador from the West, from Guatemala with one of his armies and, at the same time attack the Departments of San Miguel and La Union from the East, through Honduras. At that time, Mexican General Jose Lopez Uraga was stationed at camp Jutiapa to guard the arsenal there. The troops were unsuccessfully attacking an isolated station on the border from El Salvador, which led Barrios to pass orders to Uraga to move the equipment to Chingo, whilst himself commencing the attack on El Salvador. Barrios held Chalcuapa in garrison. The headquarters of El Salvador was in Santa Ana. Barrios besieged Ahuachapan with approx. 8000 soldiers, Uraga led approx. 1500 soldiers in Chalchuapa and only a handful of soldiers remained in Chingo.\n\nThe Guatemalan troops holding Apaneca in garrison were forced back. When they tried to return on the morning of April 15, 1875, they involved in combat lasting well into the night until they retreated to Atiquizaya having suffered severe casualties. \n\nBetween April 17 and 19 1876, General Gregorio Solares had the troops of generals Brioso, Delgado, Sanchez and Espinosa beat and thus controlled the Departments San Miguel an La Union, threatening the Departments San Vincete as well as Usulután and even the official residence of President Valle, cutting off the Salvadorian government from essential resources. Approx. 800 Salvadorian soldiers had been killed and the troops retreated to San Miguel, where only 200 soldiers arrived. Solares had San Miguel and La Union held in garrison. There were enough soldiers to defend Ciudad San Vecente, but the government of El Salvador gave orders for the garrison to troop in the capital.\n\nIn the West, the army of El Salvador had shrunk to 2600 during the Semana Santa battle in Ahuachapan and nearly 3500 in Santa Ana. After Easter, there were only 900 soldiers left to try to take in Chalchuapa, in vain.\n\nDuring the siege of Atiquizaya, Barrio had 900 bombs thrown, subsequently marching into Ahuachapan and the following day into Cahlchuapa, where peace talks took place. A peace accord was closed on April 25, 1876 and ratified by the parliaments the following day. This peace was preconditioned by a Conditio-sine-qua-non-formula of a complete replacement of the government of El Salvador. President Valle was forced to resign.\n\n"}
{"id": "2234655", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234655", "title": "Rafael Zaldívar", "text": "Rafael Zaldívar\n\nRafael Zaldívar (1834 in San Alejo – 2 March 1903 in Paris) was President of El Salvador from 1 May 1876 until 21 June 1885, and later a diplomat.\n\nZaldívar studied medicine in Europe and began his career as a physician. In 1860 he was appointed to the Chair of Philosophy and Hygiene at the University of Guatemala. After leaving this post, Zaldívar entered politics and was elected to the House of Representatives, then to the Senate, and finally elected president in 1876.\n\nIt was under his administration that liberal reforms abolished the existence of collectively owned \"ejidos\" and \"tierras comunales\" throughout the country. He also remains a key figure in what later became known as the \"Coffee Revolution.\" It was Rafael Zaldívar who introduced reforms that paved the way for cultivation on large scale. Under the Zaldívar administration, virgin land was turned into farmlands. This was done by allowing for the sale of Indian lands. Resistance resulted from the Indians, but it quelled by the Zaldívar government, mostly by creating and then deploying a rural police force.\n\nPresident Zaldívar was not in favour of the proposed rebirth of the Unified Central Republic agreed to by his predecessors and decided to withdraw from the Union. He was later overthrown in a military coup and succeeded by General Francisco Menéndez. \nHe was appointed as his country's Envoy Extraordnairy and Minister Plenipotentiary to the United Kingdom in early 1900, and later held the same position to France. He died in Paris in 1903 while serving as his country's minister to France.\n"}
{"id": "2234659", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234659", "title": "Francisco Menéndez", "text": "Francisco Menéndez\n\nFrancisco Menéndez Valdivieso (3 December 1830 – 22 June 1890) was Provisional President of El Salvador from 22 June 1885 to 1 March 1887, then President of El Salvador from 1 March 1887 until his death on 22 June 1890.\n\nGeneral Francisco Menéndez was born in Ahuachapán, 3 December 1830 and died in San Salvador, 22 June 1890. His parents were José Eustachian Menéndez and Gabriela Valdivieso, independently wealthy landowners. In 1858, General Menéndez wed Bonifacia Salazar in an arranged marriage. At age forty-one he took an active role in the revolution of 1871 that ousted Dr. Francisco Dueñas, the mayor of Ahuachapán. At the age of fifty-five General Menéndez was named Provisional President of El Salvador 22 June 1885, receiving the supreme power of José Rosales.\n"}
{"id": "2234662", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234662", "title": "Carlos Ezeta", "text": "Carlos Ezeta\n\nCarlos Basilio Ezeta (14 June 1852 – 21 March 1903) was President of El Salvador from 22 June 1890 – 9 June 1894.\nHe was a military ruler. He died on March 21, 1903, aged 50. \n\nEzeta was born in San Salvador on June 14, 1852.\n\nOn June 22, 1890, Ezeta travelled to the White House of the Incumbent President, General Francisco Menéndez, and started an uprising that overthrew Menendéz. Menendéz died soon after this. On March 1, 1891, Ezeta formally took office as the President of El Salvador.\n\nEzeta oversaw El Salvador's relative political stability at a time when the neighboring republics of Honduras and Guatemala were at war, but he soon lost favour with the landowners and was overthrown in the Revolution of the 44 on June 9, 1894 by Rafael Antonio Gutiérrez with assistance from Nicaragua, Guatemala and Honduras. He fled to Panama, and then travelled to Europe as there was a warrant for his death; he then returned to Central America and then settled in Mazatlan, Mexico, where he died on March 21, 1903, aged 50. His remains are buried at Angela Peralta Cemetery of this city.\n"}
{"id": "2234663", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234663", "title": "Diagonal pliers", "text": "Diagonal pliers\n\nDiagonal pliers (or wire cutters or diagonal cutting pliers or diagonal cutters or side cutting pliers) are pliers intended for the cutting of wire (they are generally not used to grab or turn anything). The plane defined by the cutting edges of the jaws intersects the joint rivet at an angle or \"on a diagonal\", hence the name.\n\nInstead of using a shearing action as with scissors, diagonal pliers cut by indenting and wedging the wire apart. The jaw edges are ground to a symmetrical \"V\" shape, thus the two jaws can be visualized to form the letter \"X\", as seen end-on when fully occluded. The pliers are made of tempered steel, and inductive heating and quenching are often used to selectively harden the jaws.\n\nDiags or dikes (a portmanteau of \"diagonal cutters\") is jargon used especially in the US electrical industry, to describe diagonal pliers. \"Dike\" can also be used as a verb, such as in the idiom \"when in doubt, dike it out\". \"It is also the term used for hose clamping pliers that crush a hose, shutting off the flow of fluid with a pair of parallel surfaces that come together.\"\n\nIn the United Kingdom and Ireland, diagonal pliers are commonly referred to as snips or nippers, and in Canada, Australia and New Zealand they are often referred to as side cutters.\n\nThe handles of diagonal cutting pliers are commonly insulated with a dip-type or shrink fit electrically-insulating material for comfort and some protection against electric shock.\n\nDiagonal pliers are useful for cutting copper, brass, iron, aluminium and steel wire. Lower quality versions are generally not suitable for cutting tempered steel, such as piano wire, as the jaws are not hard enough. Attempting to cut such material will usually cause indentations to be made in the jaws, or a piece to break out of one or both jaws, thus ruining the tool. However higher quality side cutters can cut hardened steel, such as 2 mm piano wire. \n\nFor electronics work, special diagonal cutters that are ground flush to the apex of the cutting edge on one side of the jaws are often used. These flush-cutting pliers allow wires to be trimmed flush or nearly flush to a solder joint, avoiding the sharp tip left by symmetrical diagonal cutters. It is common for this type of diagonal cutter to be referred to by another name, such as \"flush cutter\" to distinguish it from symmetrical cutters.\nFor easier cutting of larger gauge wire, a compound-action can be employed to increase the mechanical advantage.\n\nSome pliers for electrical work are fitted with wire-cutter blades either built into the jaws or on the handles just below the pivot.\n\n"}
{"id": "2234665", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234665", "title": "Rafael Antonio Gutiérrez", "text": "Rafael Antonio Gutiérrez\n\nRafael Antonio Gutiérrez was the President of El Salvador from 10 June 1894 to 13 November 1898.\n\nRafael Antonio Gutiérrez was born in Ilobasco, Cabañas Department, El Salvador on 24 October 1845. His father was a Spaniard and his mother was Marcela Gutiérrez. His wife was Carlota Mejía and had eight children: Rafael Antonio, Carlos, Carlota, Tulio, Marcela, Rosa, Bernardo, and María.\n\nGeneral Rafael Antonio Gutiérrez served as President of El Salvador from 10 June 1894 to 13 November 1898. Rafael overthrew Carlos Ezeta in a coup on June 9, 1894, with assistance from Guatemala, Honduras, and Nicaragua, along with Tomás Regalado, his best friend. This coup became known as the \"Revolution of the 44.\" Rafael was a supporter of a Central American union and signed the Pact of Amapala with Honduras and Nicaragua on 20 June, 1895. Rafael Antonio was known for his honesty in the administration of the Public Treasury. He also founded the \"Normal School for Men and Women.\" He was overthrown in a coup led by Tomás Regalado (who helped Rafael come to power in 1894) on 13 November 1898.\n\nRafael Gutiérrez died on January 9, 1921, aged 75, in Barrio San Jacinto, San Salvador, El Salvador.\n\n"}
{"id": "2234667", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234667", "title": "Viscount Wolseley", "text": "Viscount Wolseley\n\nViscount Wolseley, of Wolseley in the County of Stafford, was a title in the Peerage of the United Kingdom created in 1885 for the Anglo-Irish military commander Garnet Wolseley, 1st Baron Wolseley. It became extinct upon the death of his daughter in 1936.\n\nThe Wolseleys were an ancient landed family in Wolseley, Staffordshire, whose roots can be traced back a thousand years, before becoming prominent in Ireland. Two baronetcies were created for Wolseley family, one in the Baronetage of England and one in the Baronetage of Ireland. Viscount Wolseley's paternal grandfather was Rev. William Wolseley, Rector of Tullycorbet, and the third son of Sir Richard Wolseley, 1st Baronet, who sat in the Irish House of Commons for Carlow. The family seat was Mount Wolseley in County Carlow.\n\nWolseley had already been created Baron Wolseley, of Cairo and of Wolseley in the County of Stafford, on 25 November 1882, with normal remainder to the heirs male of his body. He was created a viscount in 1885, with remainder, in default of male issue, to his daughter and only child Frances, and the heirs male of her body.\n\nWolseley rose to the position of Field Marshal, the highest executive position in the British Army, then Commander-in-Chief of the Forces for a period of six years from 1895.\n\nOn Lord Wolseley's death the barony became extinct and he was succeeded in the viscountcy, according to the special remainder, by his daughter, Frances, author of \"Gardens – Their Form and Design\" (1919). Viscountess Wolseley never married and upon her death in 1936 the viscountcy became extinct.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2234669", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234669", "title": "Wichita Heights High School", "text": "Wichita Heights High School\n\nWichita Heights High School, known locally as Heights, is a coeducational secondary school located in Wichita, Kansas, operated by Wichita USD 259 public school district, and serves students in grades 9-12. The school is part of the USD 259 public school system. The school principal is Sherman Padgett, who replaced Bruce Deterding in 2018. The school colors are red and black.\n\nWichita Heights High School was established in 1961 in order to help educate the growing population of Wichita, Kansas. The school was originally approved, planned and built as Wichita Heights Rural School District Number 192 to serve the districts of Bridgeport, Kechi, Kechi Center, Riverside, and Riverview. No secondary school existed at the time for these districts. Prior to its construction, students were placed into other Wichita area schools. Construction of the school began in 1959 and was finished two years later in 1961, in time for the school year.\n\nWichita Heights is a member of the Kansas State High School Activities Association and offers a variety of sports programs. Athletic teams compete in the 5A division and are known as the \"Falcons\". Extracurricular activities are also offered in the form of performing arts, school publications, and clubs.\n\nWichita Heights High School was originally approved, planned and built as Wichita Heights Rural School District Number 192, to serve the districts of Bridgeport, Kechi, Kechi Center, Riverside, and Riverview. No secondary school existed at the time for these districts; prior to its construction students were placed into other Wichita area schools. Construction of the school started in 1959, and was finished two years later in 1961 in time for the school year. In July 1963, the school became a part of the Wichita Public Schools. In 1983, Wichita Heights was designated an urban overflow school due to the increasing populations of other inner city Wichita Public Schools.\n\nThe Falcons compete in the Greater Wichita Athletic League and are classified as a 5A school, the second largest classification in Kansas according to the Kansas State High School Activities Association. Throughout its history, Wichita Heights has won twenty one state championships in various sports. Several graduates have gone on to participate in collegiate and professional athletics. The football team won a state championship in 2010 against Olathe North High School on November 27, 2010 by a score of 48-14.\n\nWichita Heights High School offers the following sports:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2234672", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234672", "title": "Caldwell Jones", "text": "Caldwell Jones\n\nCaldwell \"Pops\" Jones (August 4, 1950 – September 21, 2014) was an American professional basketball player.\n\nJones was drafted out of Albany State College by the Philadelphia 76ers with the 14th pick in the 1973 NBA draft. He played three seasons in the American Basketball Association (ABA) and 14 seasons in the National Basketball Association (NBA), most extensively with the 76ers.\n\nJones led the ABA in blocked shots in the 1973–74 season, and played in the 1975 ABA All-Star Game. He shares (with Julius Keye) the ABA's all-time record for blocked shots in a game with 12.\n\nJones' brothers, Charles, Wil and Major all played at Albany State and in the NBA. The most prominent of the foursome, Caldwell, was best known as the least flamboyant member of the high-powered 76ers teams of the late 1970s and early 1980s. Playing alongside Julius Erving and company, Jones did not need to score much with Philadelphia, so he concentrated on rebounding, shotblocking, and defense. A lanky yet strong pivotman, his hustle, board work, and defense kept him in professional basketball for 17 years.\n\nPlaying in his final season at the age of 39, he was the fifth-oldest NBA player ever to have suited up at the time. He finished with 10,241 points (in the NBA and ABA), but it had taken him 1,299 games to rack them up. No other player who scored 10,000 points had ever needed more than 1,200 games to do so.\n\nJones began his career in 1973–74 with the ABA's San Diego Conquistadors, coached by Wilt Chamberlain. During three ABA seasons (including short stints with the Kentucky Colonels and the Spirits of St. Louis), Jones averaged 15.8 points, hitting a career high of 19.5 points per game in 1974–75. \"I was a gunner\", he later told the \"Dallas Morning News\". \"Every time I caught the ball I shot it.\"\n\nWith the ABA–NBA merger prior to the 1976–77 season, Jones landed with Philadelphia. His days as a scorer were over. \"We had so much talent on those 76ers teams that [Coach] Gene Shue said all he wanted his centers to do was play defense and rebound. I had no argument with that\", Jones later told the Portland Oregonian...\"We were winning and that's the name of the game. And it's kept me around for 16 years.\"\n\nIn Jones' first season with Philadelphia, the team was particularly explosive. Erving (21.6 point per game), George McGinnis (21.4 pointe per game), Doug Collins (18.3 points per game), and Lloyd B. Free (later World B. Free) (16.3 points per game) propelled the squad to a 50–32 regular season record and an 1977 NBA Finals meeting with the Portland Trail Blazers. Jumping out to a two-game lead, the 76ers appeared to be headed for the title, but the Trail Blazers rallied for a dramatic 4–2 Finals win. For the season, Jones averaged 6.0 points and 8.1 rebounds and finished sixth on the team in minutes played. He also ranked fifth in the league in blocked shots with 200.\n\nPhiladelphia won the Atlantic Division again in 1977–78 but lost to the Washington Bullets in the Eastern Conference Finals. Jones averaged 5.4 points (ninth on the team) and 7.0 rebounds (third). That season marked the emergence of Darryl Dawkins, with whom Jones shared minutes in the pivot during the following seasons.\n\nIn 1978–79 the 76ers slipped a bit, finishing second in the Atlantic Division to Washington and losing to the San Antonio Spurs in the conference semifinals. Jones averaged 9.3 points (his highest average at Philadelphia) and 9.6 rebounds and was ninth in the league in blocks with 157.\n\nThe 76ers reached the 1980 NBA Finals. Erving scored 26.9 points per game in the season, and Jones was a defensive force, pulling down 11.9 rebounds per game, fourth in the league, and blocking 162 shots, seventh in the league. Although Philadelphia finished behind the Boston Celtics in the regular season, the 76ers tore through the playoffs before coming up short against the Los Angeles Lakers in the Finals.\n\nJones and teammate Bobby Jones (no relation) were NBA All-Defensive First Team selections for the next two seasons, and the 76ers made another trip to the NBA Finals and battled the Lakers in 1982. Philadelphia again fell in six games. After the season, the 76ers sent Jones to the Houston Rockets in a deal that brought Moses Malone to Philadelphia. The 76ers won the championship the following season.\n\nJones played two seasons in Houston (joining his brother Major on the Rockets' squad), one in Chicago, four in Portland, and one in San Antonio. Primarily he was a reserve, called upon to spell the starting center, grab some rebounds, and play some defense. \"I'm like a spare tire on the Cadillac\", he told \"USA Today\" in the twilight of his career. \"I'm just sitting around in the trunk, waiting to get put on the car if one of the fancy tires blows out\".\n\n\"Everybody likes to look at the glorified part of the game, like scoring points\", Jones told \"USA Today\" in 1990. \"But there is a lot more to the game. I look at myself like an offensive lineman. Someone has to open the holes for the 1,000-yard rushers.\"\n\n\"What do I think of Caldwell Jones? When he retires, I think they should have a farewell tour for him\", Larry Brown, Jones's coach with the San Antonio Spurs, told \"USA Today\".\n\nJones grew up in McGehee, Arkansas, a member of a very tall family. The Caldwell Jones, Sr., and his wife, Cecelia, had eight children. Their shortest child was Clovis, the only daughter, who grew to . Four of the Jones' boys played in the NBA: Wilbert (, one season each with the Indiana Pacers and the Buffalo Braves, plus seven seasons with three ABA teams), Caldwell (five NBA and three ABA teams), Major (, five seasons with the Houston Rockets, one with the Detroit Pistons), and Charles (, 15 seasons total with Philadelphia, the Chicago Bulls, the Washington Bullets, the Detroit Pistons and the Houston Rockets). Two other brothers played minor league basketball.\n\nIn the 37 NBA seasons accumulated by the four Jones' brothers, only once did a Jones post a scoring average in double figures—Wilbert did it in the 1976–77 season with the Pacers, tallying 13.0 points per game. However, between them the brothers had several double-figure scoring seasons in the ABA.\n\nOliver was the first of the Jones' brothers to play basketball at Albany State and later became head coach for 28 years at the school. Five other brothers, including Caldwell, followed. For 18 straight seasons, a Jones occupied the center position for the Albany basketball team.\n\nCaldwell distinguished himself the most as a professional out of all brothers.\n\nJones died of a heart attack while at a driving range near his home in Stockbridge, Georgia on September 21, 2014. He was 64 years old.\n\n\"Caldwell had never been much of a golfer\", his wife Vanessa said. \"He’d discovered the game late in life. But you know, he wrote that he would play golf if that’s the only thing he could do. That’s what he would do every day for the rest of his life\". \"Too sudden\", Vanessa said, \"he was fine in church and at brunch. Just a normal day. No reason to think anything was up. I miss him so much\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2234675", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234675", "title": "1875–76 in English football", "text": "1875–76 in English football\n\nThe 1875–1876 season was the fifth season of competitive football in England. The only international match was the fifth match between England and Scotland.\n\nAccording to Philip Gibbons, \"the England side tended to be chosen on availability rather than skill alone.\" England struggled throughout the game, which saw the home team run out winners by three goals to nil.\n\nIn May 2008, a photograph of the 1876 England team was discovered in the archives of the Derby City Council Local Studies Library. Edgar Field had sent the photograph to the Derbyshire Football Express, and the picture was used in an article published on the 50th anniversary of the match. This picture came to light in May and is believed to be the earliest known picture of an England football team.\n\n"}
{"id": "2234678", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234678", "title": "Tomás Regalado (Salvadoran politician)", "text": "Tomás Regalado (Salvadoran politician)\n\nGeneral Tomás Regalado Sanchez (November 7, 1861 in Santa Ana, El Salvador – July 7, 1906 in Guatemala) was President of El Salvador from 14 November 1898 until 1 March 1903. He was a military ruler and gained power by deposing Rafael Antonio Gutiérrez, a man he had previously helped achieve control of the country by taking part in a conspiracy to oust Carlos Ezeta four years earlier. Elected to a four-year term in 1899, he promoted the construction of railways, declared an amnesty for political exiles, and began the construction of the beautiful Santa Ana Theater.\n\nUpon leaving office, he remained active in the Army of El Salvador and was appointed Minister of War by his handpicked successor Pedro José Escalón. During a war against Guatemala in 1906 he led a Salvadoran invasion force and went into battle. Seriously wounded, he soon died on the 11th of June . His coup d'état led to the dissolution of the Greater Republic of Central America after his government withdrew from it.\n\nRegalado was the last in a series of presidents who had come to power by force during the 19th Century. His peaceful transfer of power to Pedro José Escalón in 1903 allowed for a degree of political stability that persisted until the events of 1931-32.\n"}
{"id": "2234679", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234679", "title": "Internet Adult Film Database", "text": "Internet Adult Film Database\n\nThe Internet Adult Film Database (IAFD) is an online database of information pertaining to, in United States, the pornography industry: actors, actresses, directors, studios, distributors and pornographic films.\n\nThe predecessor to IAFD was email- and FTP-accessible database of adult film actresses called Abserver that had been created by Dan Abend in 1993.\n\nIAFD itself was started by Peter van Aarle, who had collected data on adult movies since 1981, when he began keeping notes on index cards on adult movies he had seen or were reviewed in \"Adam Film World\". In 1993, he began contributing to the Usenet newsgroup alt.sex.movies, where he met Dan Abend. The two exchanged databases and began work on a WWW-based database.\n\nVan Aarle later collaborated on this Web database with Ron Wilhelm, who went by the pseudonym of \"Heretic\". The first version of the IAFD was brought on-line in 1995 by the programming efforts of Wilhelm, who used the project as a training ground for SGML programming which he was learning in college. After Wilhelm left the Internet to join the military, the site eventually fell victim to link rot.\n\nIn the fall of 1998, Van Aarle was at a trade show with Jeff Vanzetti, who asked if Van Aarle would be interested in resurrecting the IAFD — this time under its own domain. Vanzetti was looking for a project on which to teach himself on-line database programming using SQL Server, and this seemed like a natural fit, since they were both co-moderators of the newsgroup rec.arts.movies.erotica (RAME), and members of the newsgroup would often lament about the passing of the original Internet Adult Film Database.\n\nThe beginning of 1999 brought the first steps towards the relaunch of the IAFD. Initially, search boxes only searched females, and data was restricted to movies released post-1989.\n\nVan Aarle said on this:\n\nIn those early days of the IAFD I had made one stipulation: I did not want the movie info on movies before 1989 to be available. The idea behind this was basically that if I would ever decide I wanted to do something commercially with my database it would be a good idea to keep the most valuable parts of it off limits. The data on older titles was clearly the most difficult to compile (and very few people I ever talked to had much info on the older stuff, with a few notable exceptions like Jim Holliday), and therefore the more valuable part of the data. The cut-off date of 1989 was a compromise to include at least the titles of Buttman, who was one of the most popular directors of the time.\n\nVan Aarle died on September 18, 2005 at the age of 42 from a heart attack. In 2011, he was inducted into the XRCO Hall of Fame.\n\nOn March 1, 2007, the IAFD rolled out information on over 18,000 gay titles and some 39,000 gay performers. Like the IMDb, forms are used for submitting data corrections, though the IAFD's form is considerably simpler than the IMDb's. However, neither IMDb or IAFD corrections are immediate; thus both correction services are fairly equal. According to the site, it contains entries on over 119,453 titles and 111,498 persons (both actors and directors).\n\nAccording to Vanzetti, IAFD adds about 500 new titles a month and processes thousands of corrections—corrections that anyone can submit for review. IAFD has a \"team of editors\" that exercises editorial control over what's posted on the site: \"If it's submitted by a fan of the performer and the working editor trusts the submitter, it gets listed. If it's published by someone else, it might get added—we are skeptical of user generated sites since anyone can submit anything to them regardless of accuracy and then it becomes 'fact'. Otherwise, no data.\" IAFD's policy on releasing real names of adult film performers is: \"The exception to this rule is when it comes to real names. We're not interested in linking your real name to your porn name, so if your real name appears on the site, we will remove it (assuming we know what your real name is). However, if your real name appeared on a boxcover due to a mix up in the Art Department, there's little we can do about that.\"\n\nIAFD gets \"paid by sponsors for ad banners\", and they \"get an affiliate commission from products purchased\" via the site.\n\nThe site has been used as a reference by a variety of outlets that include newspaper articles, books, and research studies. The academic and non-academic writing community has also used the site's information to varying degrees. In 2011, the site released a report of compiled data for the year. Included in the statistics released were the number of new titles added that year (9,384) and a ranking of who the busiest performers were. The report also included site data, such as that it was visited by 20.7 million unique viewers and that visitors to the site viewed nearly a quarter of a billion pages. An editor at \"AVN\" magazine stated: \"[it] underscores the fact that a lot of people not only like porn but want to research information about movies and performers.\"\n\nOn October 1, 2007, an article about the Internet Adult Film Database appeared in the online equivalent of the Brazilian newspaper \"Folha de S. Paulo\". Considered the \"Internet Movie Database\" of the adult entertainment world\", the site is also routinely quoted or referenced by the majority of the industry trade publications, such as \"Adult Video News\" (\"AVN\") and XBIZ.\n\nOn February 14, 2013, a study was released by freelance journalist Jon Millward that sampled the data from 10,000 actors (7,000 women and 3,000 men) from the site to, among other things, compile a profile of the \"average porn star\" as well as generate some statistics about adult industry actors based on IAFD data. The study was written about several days later on Playboy.com. It showed that the typical female porn star was a five-foot-five-inch brunette with B-cup breasts.\n\nThe survey was started in 2011, with the researcher's first visit to IAFD.com, with the bulk of Millward's research taking place in the six months prior to the release of the study. For comparative results, the study also cites Center for Disease Control and U.S. Census statistics as well as information from a Stanford University linguistics professor.\n\nThe survey covers roughly a 40-year span of the adult industry and presents statistics on categories such as age, race, state of origin, chosen screen name, biological data (height, weight, hair color, etc.), and the type of sexual acts performed over an actor's career.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2234681", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234681", "title": "Pedro José Escalón", "text": "Pedro José Escalón\n\nPedro José Escalón (March 25, 1847 – September 6, 1923) was born in Santa Ana, El Salvador. In 1865 he married Elena Rodríguez (died December 3, 1921) and they had three children: Dolores, Federico and Pedro.\n\nHe served as President of El Salvador from 1 March 1903 to 1 March 1907; he was a military ruler. He died in Santa Ana on September 6, 1923, aged 76. His ascension to the presidency was the first peaceful succession in many years, ushering in an era of political stability that ended with the events of 1931–32.\n\nEscalón was a landowner who held large estates. Escalón's presidency was paved by General Tomas Regalado who, in 1903, after gaining and centralizing power, transferred power to him. Escalón's presidency also marked the beginning of democracy in the country. It was from his term in office that the law of every president being allowed a maximum of four years in office was put into effect.\n"}
{"id": "2234683", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234683", "title": "Fernando Figueroa", "text": "Fernando Figueroa\n\nGeneral Fernando Figueroa (4 March 1849 – 16 June 1919) was president of El Salvador from 1 March 1907 to 1 March 1911.\n"}
{"id": "2234688", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234688", "title": "Wolter", "text": "Wolter\n\nWolter is a given name and surname of Low German and Low Franconian origin. It is equivalent to the English Walter, High German Walther, Dutch Wouter and French Gauthier. People with the name Wolter include:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2234690", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234690", "title": "Manuel Enrique Araujo", "text": "Manuel Enrique Araujo\n\nAraujo was born in the Hacienda El Condadillo, in the department of Usulután, El Salvador. His family were wealthy landowners who cultivated coffee; his father was of Basque and his mother of Portuguese descent. As a young man he studied medicine at the University of El Salvador, and after earning his doctorate in 1891 at the age of 26, he went to Europe to continue his studies specializing in surgery.\n\nAraujo served as the Vice President of Fernando Figueroa from March 1907 to March 1911. \n\nAt age forty-five, Dr. Araujo stood as an official candidate for national president in the election of November 1910, and won the office with the support of outgoing president Fernando Figueroa. During his presidency, the Army received special attention and increased funding; consequently, many foreign military advisors were hired to educate and train Salvadoran officers. In 1912, Araujo founded the National Guard as a rural police force for the country. Former officers of the Spanish Civil Guard were recruited to train them and to provide men for his private security corps.\n\nIn a reorganization of the national judicial system, offices of Justices of the Peace were established in all the country's municipalities to ensure the rule of law throughout the nation. A Ministry of Agriculture was formed to promote the cultivation of coffee. In 1911, the \"Teatro Nacional\" (National Theatre) was built in San Salvador, and the centenary of the independence uprising of 1811 was celebrated with the inauguration of the \"Monumento a los Próceres de 1811\" (Monument to the Heroes of 1811) in \"Plaza Libertad\" (Freedom Park) to memorialize the heroes of the movement. The current national flag and the coat of arms it contains were adopted in 1912.\n\nOn 9 February 1913, during a concert in the San Salvador Bolivar Park (now Plaza Gerardo Barrios), President Araujo was severely wounded when farmers Mulatilo Virgilio, Fermin Perez and Fabian Graciano assaulted him with machetes. Araujo died five days later and was buried in one of El Salvador's famous cemeteries. The motives of the attackers, who were executed after a military trial, were never thoroughly investigated.\n"}
{"id": "2234691", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234691", "title": "Pro Loco", "text": "Pro Loco\n\nIn Italy, Pro Loco (the term is both singular and plural) are grass-roots organizations that seek to promote some particular place, almost always a town and its immediate area; \"pro loco\" is a Latin phrase that may be roughly translated \"in favor of the place\". Usually the town is a full-fledged comune, but not always: frazioni and other small places with a high level of civic pride may have their own Pro Loco.\n\nVery often, the name of a Pro Loco is just \"Pro Loco N\", where N is the name of the town; not infrequently, though, one meets with the simpler \"Pro N\", where N may be the name of the town or even its ancient Roman name.\n\nThe Pro Loco is a volunteer, grass-roots organization, and must not be confused with such publicly financed organizations as the Azienda di Promozione Turistica (APT) or the Ufficio di Informazione e Accoglienza Turistica (IAT), the aim of which is to promote tourism.\n\nStill, Pro Loco could have a legal identity as a no-profit organization if part of the UNPLI, Unione Nazionale Pro Loco d'Italia, the National Union: Pro Loco with a statute in line with UNPLI's protocols could have legal advice and some fiscal advantages, mostly a reduced fare in paying the (quite expensive) rights to SIAE to play music or theatre in public places.\n\nIn most Italian towns, the Pro Loco's main purpose is to organize, finance, advertise, and operate the local Sagra or palio; it is thus quintessentially at the service of residents rather than visitors.\n\nIn some places though, a wider purpose has been taken on, that of promoting the town's products or tourism; and in some few cases, a very active and socially conscious Pro Loco will sponsor publications, scholarly research, or the restoration of local monuments.\n"}
{"id": "2234698", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234698", "title": "Sungenis", "text": "Sungenis\n\nSungenis is a family name of Italian origin, originally spelled \"San Genisi\", in reference to Saint Genesius of Rome. By coincidence, it is also a transliteration of the Greek word for a blood relative, συγγενής, cf. Luke 1:36, which has συγγενίς.\n\n"}
{"id": "2234705", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234705", "title": "Northern Velebit National Park", "text": "Northern Velebit National Park\n\nThe Northern Velebit National Park () is a national park in Croatia that covers 109 km of the northern section of the Velebit mountains, the largest mountain range in Croatia. Because of the abundant variety of this part of the Velebit range, the area was upgraded from a nature reserve in 1999, and opened as a national park in September the same year.\n\nThe whole of the Velebit range is a \"nature park\", a lesser conservation category. Another national park on Velebit is the Paklenica on its southern side.\n\nThe park reserve is protected and visitors are restricted to designated trails. Inside the reserve is the \"Visibaba\" (Galanthus) botanical reserve, with an abundance of the endemic Croatian subspecies of \"Sibiraea altaiensis\", and the Zavižan–Balinovac–Velika kosa botanical reserve, famous for its outstanding collection of mountain flora species. Inside the reserve is the well-known Velebit Botany Garden, founded by pharmacology professor and botanist Fran Kušan in 1967.\n\nThe Park is criss-crossed with mountaineering trails. The best-known is Premužić's Trail, named after its constructor, the forester Ante Premužić who built it in late 1933. The path runs through the most beautiful and most interesting parts of the park. From the numerous peaks in the surroundings there are magnificent views of the Adriatic Sea and its islands (Pag, Rab, Goli Otok, Prvić and Krk) as well as of the continental side. \nAdding to the Park's cultural value are the numerous ruins of so-called \"summer lodges\". These remain from when Velebit was populated by shepherds and cattle farmers. On its coastal slopes are many ruined houses, lodges and stone walls, all the remaining evidence of a lost local population.\n\nThe Zavižan (1676 m) peak is within the park, the highest meteorological station in Croatia.\n\nThe special reservations in the park are two locales called Hajdučki kukovi and Rožanski kukovi. Their names come from a folk name given to large stone masses which rise up over the surroundings of the Velebit mountains. They are in the center of the park, but are not a regular part of it, access to them is restricted to scientific researchers and educational visitors.\n\nHajdučki kukovi is one of the Kukovi group of peaks in the northern part of the Velebit. Together with Rožanski kukovi it forms an area of around 22 km declared as a nature reserve in 1969. It is separated from Rožanski kukovi by the Skrbina Draga and Veliki Lubenovac field.\n\nThe kukovi group has around 40 summits exceeding 1600 m. The area around Hajdučki kukovi has a complex underground drainage system. The terrain is much wilder than around Rožanski kukovi, and there are parts where even today no human foot has ever trod. Lukina jama, the deepest mountain cave in Croatia and one of the deepest in southeast Europe, with a depth of 1392 m, was discovered in 1992 by a local caving enthusiast named Ozren Lukić. Lukić joined a mountain division during the war (1991–95) as a volunteer and was killed by a sniper in 1992. Lukina jama was named after him.\n\nThe first \"kuk\", Gromovača (1675 m), is a two-and-a-half-hour walk from the hostel in Zavižan. The centre of the rocks begin immediately behind \"Rossijeva koliba\" (a mountain hut), also 2.5 hours' walk from the hostel. The most interesting part of this rocky region is on the path from Rossilijeva koliba to Crikvena (1641 m), half an hour's walk from the hut.\n\nIn an area of about 18 km there are more than fifty stony peaks, all over 1600 m, some with bizarre shapes of towers, spires or obelisks. Here all the phenomena of karst rock meet – chasms, dizzying heights, crevices, caves, natural gateways and passes.\n\nThe best-known and most popular sights are Novotnijev kuk, Rossilijev kuk and Premužićev kuk.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2234706", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234706", "title": "1876–77 in English football", "text": "1876–77 in English football\n\nThe 1876–1877 season was the sixth season of competitive football in England. \n\nOnce again England played Scotland at the Kennington OvalThis was England's first defeat on 'home soil'. The referee for this match was former England player, Robert Ogilvie.\n"}
{"id": "2234712", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234712", "title": "John Phillip Law", "text": "John Phillip Law\n\nJohn Phillip Law (September 7, 1937 – May 13, 2008) was an American film actor. \nFollowing a breakthrough role as a Russian sailor in \"The Russians Are Coming, the Russians Are Coming\" (1966), Law became best known for his roles as gunfighter Bill Meceita in the Spaghetti Western \"Death Rides a Horse\" (1967) with Lee Van Cleef, the blind angel Pygar in the cult science fiction film \"Barbarella\" (1968) with Jane Fonda, the title character in the cult action film \"\" (1968), Manfred von Richthofen in \"Von Richthofen and Brown\" (1971), and news anchor Robin Stone in \"The Love Machine\" (1971). The latter reteamed him with Alexandra Hay, his co-star from the 1968 \"acid comedy\" \"Skidoo\".\n\nLaw was born in Los Angeles, California, the son of Los Angeles County Deputy Sheriff John Law and actress Phyllis Sallee. He was the brother of actor Thomas Augustus Law (also known as Tom Law). He graduated from Hollywood High School.\n\nHis mother got him work as a film extra as a child, and had a non-speaking role as a courtroom page in \"The Magnificent Yankee\" (1950), directed by John Sturges.\n\nHe attended an engineering college in California then switched to the University of Hawaii where he studied psychology and appeared in several university stage productions. This caused him to decide to become an actor professionally.\n\nAfter graduation, Law moved to New York, where he studied acting and he signed a seven-year contract with Fox. He realised it was a mistake and got out of it, then returned to New York. He had a small role in Garson Kanin's unsuccessful Broadway comedy, \"Come On Strong\" (1962).\n\nHe auditioned for the Repertory Theater at the Lincoln Center, and was one of 12 picked out of 30,000. He stayed there for three years. Law was announced as part of the company in January 1964. He was in their productions of \"Marco's Millions\"; then \"The Changeling\" directed by Elia Kazan with Faye Dunaway; and \"Tartuffe\" (1965).\n\nHe left the Lincoln Center company and traveled to Europe where he acted in \"High Infidelity\" (1964) and \"3 notti d'amore\" (1964).\n\nOne of Law's Italian films was seen by the director Norman Jewison, who thought Law perfect for the role of a young Soviet sailor in \"The Russians Are Coming, the Russians Are Coming\" (1966). The film was a big success and Law was launched in Hollywood.\nHe followed this with a co-star role in Otto Preminger's \"Hurry Sundown\" (1967), a drama about race relations in the south. It co-starred Dunaway and Jane Fonda. Dunaway played his wife.\n\nFonda was going to star in \"Barbarella\" and recommended Law for the film. Production was delayed so Law played the lead in a Spaghetti Western, \"Death Rides a Horse\" (1967) with Lee Van Cleef, then the title role of \"\" (1968), directed by Mario Bava and produced by Dino De Laurentiis.\n\nLaw eventually played the angel in \"Barbarella\" (1968), co starring with Jane Fonda and produced by De Laurentiis.\nHe followed this with a small role in Preminger's \"Skidoo\" (1968), then had the lead in \"The Sergeant\" (1968), starring Rod Steiger as a soldier who lusts after Law. He turned down roles in \"Midnight Cowboy\" and \"Easy Rider\" and was replaced when filming \"The Gypsy Moths\".\n\nLaw went back to Europe to support Claudia Cardinale in a comedy, \"Diary of a Telephone Operator\" (1969). He had a key role in Hollywood's \"The Hawaiians\" (1970) with Charlton Heston and played the title role in the Italian \"Strogoff\" (1970), based on the novel by Jules Verne, \"Michael Strogoff\".\n\nLaw co-starred in Roger Corman's film \"Von Richthofen and Brown\" (1971), playing Manfred von Richthofen opposite Don Stroud's Roy Brown. Corman used Lynn Garrison's Irish aviation facility, complete with replica World War I aircraft. Garrison taught Law the basics of flying so that he could take off and land, making some of the footage more realistic.\n\nLaw was top billed in \"The Love Machine\" (1971), based on the novel by Jacqueline Susann, replacing Brian Kelly at the last moment. He was one of many actors to have a cameo in \"The Last Movie\" (1970). He supported Monica Vitti and Alberto Sordi in \"Polvere di stelle\" (1973) then had the title role in \"The Golden Voyage of Sinbad\" (1973). He co-starred with Peter Fonda in \"Open Season\" (1974) and was in the TV remake of \"The Spiral Staircase\" (1975).\n\nLaw could still command star roles in Europe: he was in \"Doctor Justice\" (1975), \"A Whisper in the Dark\" (1976) and \"Tu dios y mi infierno\" (1976). He had a support role in \"The Cassandra Crossing\" (1977) and supported Anthony Quinn in \"Target of an Assassin\" (1977), filmed in South Africa.\n\nLaw was top-billed in \"Eyes Behind the Wall\" (1977), \"Der Schimmelreiter\" (1978), and \"The Devil's Bed\" (1978). He returned to Hollywood to play a supporting role in \"The Best Place to Be\" and \"Ring of Darkness\" (both 1979).\n\nLaw went to Taiwan to make two films, \"Yuan\" (1980) and \"Attack Force Z\" (1981). He appeared in \"Tarzan the Ape Man\" (1981), and made guest appearances on \"The Love Boat\" and \"Murder, She Wrote\".\n\nLaw remained in demand, albeit mostly now in low budget films, including \"Tin Man\" (1983), \"Night Train to Terror\" (1985), \"American Commandos\" (1985), \"Moon in Scorpio\" (1987), \"Thunder III\" (1987), \"Striker\" (1987), \"Una grande storia d'amore\" (1988), \"Space Mutiny\" (1988), \"Blood Delirium\" (1988), \"A Case of Honor\" (1989), and \"Cold Heat\" (1989).\n\nLaw appeared in \"Alienator\" (1990), \"Shining Blood\" (1992), \"Il giorno del porco\" (1993), \"The Mountain of the Lord\" (1993), \"Hindsight\" (1996), \"My Ghost Dog\" (1997), \"Wanted\" (1999), and \"Bad Guys\" (2000). In 2001, he appeared in Roman Coppola's directorial debut \"CQ\", an homage to the Italian spy/sci-fi B-movies in which Law often starred during the 1960s.\nHis final roles included \"Curse of the Forty-Niner\" (2002) (which he also associate produced), \"The Three Faces of Terror\" (2004), and \"Ray of Sunshine\" (2006). His last credited film role was in 2008's \".\"\n\nHe was married and divorced from actress Shawn Ryan, with whom he had a daughter.\n\nOn December 13, 2007, his doctors diagnosed Law with pancreatic cancer. He died five months later on May 13, 2008 at his home in Los Angeles.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2234717", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234717", "title": "July 24 (Eastern Orthodox liturgics)", "text": "July 24 (Eastern Orthodox liturgics)\n\nJuly 23 - Eastern Orthodox liturgical calendar - July 25\n\nAll fixed commemorations below are celebrated on August 6 by Old Calendar.\n\nFor July 24th, Orthodox Churches on the Old Calendar commemorate the Saints listed on July 11.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nGreek Sources\nRussian Sources\n"}
{"id": "2234718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234718", "title": "Lockring", "text": "Lockring\n\nA lock ring is a threaded washer used to prevent components from becoming loose during rotation. They are found on an adjustable bottom bracket and a track hub of a bicycle. Lokring is another form of fastener used in the automotive and air condition industries. These fittings are often confused with lockrings.\n"}
{"id": "2234723", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234723", "title": "Thad Luckinbill", "text": "Thad Luckinbill\n\nThaddeus Rowe Luckinbill (born April 24, 1975) is an American actor and producer best known for playing J.T. Hellstrom on the CBS soap opera \"The Young and the Restless\", from August 1999 to November 2010. He revived the role of J.T. in December 2017.\n\nThad Luckinbill has an identical twin brother, Trent, who is 12 minutes younger. Trent Luckinbill is a lawyer who lives in Los Angeles. In the final episode of the television series \"\", \"To the Boy in the Blue Knit Cap\", Trent briefly appeared as the identical twin murder victim/corpse lying beside the murder victim/corpse of the character played by Thad.\n\nLuckinbill married \"Young and the Restless\" co-star Amelia Heinle in March 2007 while their characters were also married on the show. He is stepfather to Amelia's son from a previous marriage. They have two children, a son and a daughter. On March 1, 2017, Luckinbill filed for divorce from Heinle, citing \"irreconcilable differences\". As of late 2019 they are not divorced. \n\nLuckinbill enjoys playing volleyball, surfing, boxing and going to the gym. He occasionally plays for the Hollywood Knights basketball team. He majored in business finance at the University of Oklahoma.\n\nIn addition to his role as J.T. Hellstrom on \"The Young and the Restless\", Thad Luckinbill has guest-starred on several primetime television shows, including \"Undressed\", \"Buffy the Vampire Slayer\", \"Providence\", \"Sabrina, the Teenage Witch\", \"Nash Bridges\", \"8 Simple Rules\", \"Without a Trace\", \"\", \"Nip/Tuck\", \"Ghost Whisperer\", \"\", and \"\". He was a recurring character on The CW show \"Nikita\" completing six episodes as Nathan, the neighbor and love interest of Alexandra Udinov (Lyndsy Fonseca), before the show was cancelled after its fourth season. Fonseca was also Luckinbill's former \"Young and the Restless\" co-star.\n\nIn 2001, Luckinbill was also featured in an episode of the MTV documentary series \"True Life\" and appeared in Madonna's \"Don't Tell Me\" video as the cowboy who was thrown from his horse at the end of the song. On November 3, 2017, it was announced that Luckinbill would reprise his portrayal of J.T. on \"The Young and the Restless\", beginning December 12, 2017. Thad's run on \"The Young and the Restless\" ended on April 13, 2018 when Nikki Newman hit him on the back of his head with a fireplace poker.\n\nIn 2013, Thad, with his twin brother Trent, and well-known producer Molly Smith (producer of \"P.S. I Love You\" and \"The Blind Side\") started a production company called Black Label Media. The production company has worked with A-listers such as Reese Witherspoon, Emily Blunt, and Jake Gyllenhaal, producing films including \"Sicario\" starring Blunt, Josh Brolin, and Benicio Del Toro, \"The Good Lie\" starring Witherspoon, and \"Demolition\" starring Gyllenhaal, Naomi Watts, and Chris Cooper.\n"}
{"id": "2234728", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234728", "title": "Wrinkles (toy)", "text": "Wrinkles (toy)\n\nWrinkles is a discontinued line of plush toys previously manufactured by Canadian toy company Ganz Bros from 1981 throughout the 1980s. The toys are identified by their characteristic wrinkled faces and clothing. They were based on the hound breed of dog. The original design was created by Senitt Puppets, based in Carnarvon, Ontario. Catherine Senitt designed and sold handmade puppets for over twenty years throughout the United States and Canada.\nThe dogs were made in three sizes. Most common are the medium-sized toys, which are about 18 inches (46 cm) high, and are the most anthropomorphic, as they were designed to sit upright. They are dressed in jogging suits, in overalls and a T-shirt, or in dresses, and have openings to allow them to double as hand puppets. There are also smaller, nine-inch-high (23 cm) toys, who sit on four legs and wear bonnets and booties, and larger toys, which are over 2 feet (61 cm) tall. Other Wrinkles animals were also manufactured, including a moose named Moogums (or Moogy), and an elephant named Trunkit.\n\nAs proof of authenticity, all Wrinkles toys have a bone-shaped symbol embroidered into their ear. As well, they all came with a fabric bone. The plush Wrinkles spawned some additional merchandise, including metal dinner trays, PVC figures, poseable dolls and even a direct to video movie featuring child actress Amy Foster.\n\nThe Wrinkles TV advertisement which aired during the 1980s featured the Wrinkles talking and chatting to the camera and finished with the dog looking to the screen and exclaiming \"Hi, I'm Wrinkles, I've got my name under my ear!\", at which point it flicked its little plush head to one side, lifting its ear to reveal the bone-shaped symbol under the ear.\n\nWrinkles have been sold as part of Ganz's \"Heritage Collection\", though the line appears to have been discontinued. Wrinkles dogs are fairly common fare on eBay and other auction sites selling toys. They can also still be purchased from the original designers at Senitt Puppets.\n\n"}
{"id": "2234731", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234731", "title": "Crazy Nights", "text": "Crazy Nights\n\nCrazy Nights is the 14th studio album by American hard rock band Kiss, recorded from March to June 1987 and released on September 21, 1987 by Mercury and Vertigo in Europe. This was the second album to feature the new line-up of Gene Simmons, Paul Stanley, Bruce Kulick, and Eric Carr.\n\nCrazy Nights is also the first KISS album to feature heavy use of keyboards and synthesizers, which was another departure in their music style, changing from their \"Creatures of the Night\"/\"Lick It Up\"/\"Animalize\"/\"Asylum\" heavy metal sound into a more radio-friendly and pop metal sound. It was re-released in 1998 as part of the Kiss Remasters series and is the last Kiss album to have been remastered.\n\nA relatively high number of songs from \"Crazy Nights\" were performed live during its supporting tour, but during and especially immediately following the tour, most of those songs were dropped and were never performed again. Only the song \"Crazy Crazy Nights\" was retained in their setlist for the \"Hot in the Shade Tour\" which followed a couple years later; it was dropped after that tour and would not return for nearly 20 years until the \"Sonic Boom Over Europe Tour\". This makes the album one of the least represented in the bands' entire catalog over the course of their career in their setlists, behind only their 1981 album commercial flop \"Music from \"The Elder\"\".\n\nKiss took a different approach in creating their album Crazy Nights, in efforts to turn around their image after they had a downfall in their music career due to experimentation of the band's music genre and the loss of two prime members. The band had a lot to prove after their decline of success.\n\nAfter the \"Asylum Tour\" had ended, Kiss went on a couple of months hiatus due to Gene Simmons' career as an actor and a producer, which made the band seem like his side job instead of primary job. For \"Kisstory\", Paul Stanley stated that he got tired of Simmons's lack of commitment and one day told him:\n\nWe were in the parking lot one day, and I said to Gene, 'Look, you're off doing all these other things while still reaping the benefits of this band—and I'm getting screwed. It's not fair for me to put in this kind of time, while somebody else who is supposed to be my partner, is not.\" And Gene looked at me and said,\n'That's fair.' I could have used Gene's input. But my attitude at that point was that I certainly wasn't going to listen to a guy who's off managing cabaret singers and producing five bands, while I was trying to make an album. \n\nSimmons' temporary departure gave space to Eric Carr and Bruce Kulick. Kulick had four co-writing credits and Carr one, but almost got other material on the album. Stanley had worked with Desmond Child, Diane Warren and Adam Mitchell and co-wrote songs: \"Crazy Crazy Nights\", \"I'll Fight Hell to Hold You\" and \"When Your Walls Come Down\" with Mitchell (\"I'll Fight Hell to Hold You\" and \"When Your Walls Come Down\" with Kulick), \"Bang Bang You\", \"My Way\" and \"Reason to Live\" with Child (\"My Way\" with Bruce Turgon also), and \"Turn On the Night\" was co-written by Stanley and Warren.\n\nAs Kiss' previous two albums had been self-produced, the band felt it needed to bring in an outside producer who would help the album achieve more commercial success. Producer Ron Nevison was hired to produce the album, but because of Nevison's filled schedule, the band had to wait for his schedule to clear. Nevison was chosen in part from his recent commercial success in producing platinum albums for Heart and Ozzy Osbourne. Simmons said for \"KISStory\", \"When we started working on \"Crazy Nights\", we looked for someone else to pull the cart, another person to help guide the band...So we hooked up with a producer named Ron Nevison, who[m] Paul had wanted to work with for a while, although I never did.\" In the \"\"Crazy Nights, it's 25 years strong\"\" KissFAQ interview, Ron Nevison describes the efforts band members put into the album: “Well, this was the only album I did with them. I do know that Gene wasn’t there all the time. Obviously Bruce was and, to some extent, Eric. Mostly, a majority of the work on that album I did with Bruce and Paul. The bass tracks were cut initially, and Gene was only needed for lead vocals. I must say that most of the time he was there, he was in the back of the studio reading “Variety.” Although Simmons' participation was low for the album, he did contribute in providing Nevison with 20–25 songs that were potential material for the Crazy Nights album, including one song called \"I'm Going to Put A Log In Your Fire Place\", which was ultimately not used on this or any subsequent albums.\nThe albums Crazy Nights and Asylum were also under new management representation with Larry Mazur, a consultant.\n\nThe album was at first called \"Who Dares Wins\", which was Carr's idea. According to him, \"During a photo session, our wardrobe girl had this commando patch lying around with 'Who Dares Wins' on it, and I said, \"Hey, what a great idea for an album title!\" Then she brought it over to Paul who said the same thing. We ended up not using it because it didn't look good in print, and it sounded as if no one would understand it.\" The idea was dropped in June, but managed to appear on some Japanese advertisements for the upcoming album. Another title the band thought of was \"Condomnation\", but as Stanley said, \"Well, Condomnation was never really the title. It was just a thought that passed through our minds and gave everyone a chuckle.\" The record sessions started in March at One on One Recording Studios in Canoga Park, California, but later continued in Rumbo Recorders, also in Canoga Park, and Can-Am Recorders in Tarzana, California. In June the album was completed, and it was mixed at Can-Am Recorders by Nevison, before being turned over to PolyGram in July.\n\nIn his 2014 biography “Face The Music”, Paul Stanley claims that drummer Eric Carr had stopped speaking to him during the tour for Crazy Nights. Stanley eventually sat down with Carr and insisted that the “non-communicative bullshit” had to end, which it did. Stanley claimed that Carr had started to drink more and may have been doing drugs by the late 1980s, which may have been causing his unhappiness. Stanley also claimed that Carr had started to obsess over not being the original drummer for Kiss, which he said Carr also did during the 1980 Australia tour.\n\n\"While their melodies continue to be quarried from stone, their lyrics are written in lipstick,\" wrote Emily Fraser in a three-star \"Q\" review. \"The riffs often have purpose and force and, in the cases of 'No No No' and 'Thief in the Night', a keen, cutting edge.\"\n\n\"Not aesthetically wonderful,\" observed Fred Dellar in \"Hi-Fi News & Record Review\", \"but I wish I had shares in it.\"\n\n\"Crazy Nights\" peaked at #18 on the US \"Billboard\" 200 chart, making it the highest-charting Kiss album of the 1980s in the US. It was certified platinum on November 18, 1987 in Canada and a few months later in the US, on February 18, 1988. All three singles off the album had corresponding videos that received heavy rotation on MTV, and were also featured on the Crazy Nights home video. The most successful single was \"Crazy Crazy Nights\", charting in five countries; and the least successful was \"Turn On the Night\", charting only in the UK, where it reached #41. The highest-charting single was \"Crazy Crazy Nights,\" which reached #4 in the UK.\n\nThe album was very well received by executives at Polygram records. It was widely reported that during a meeting in which the album was played for them in full, the entire conference room reportedly stood and applauded for a full five minutes afterward. The excitement was enough for the corporate team to promote the album well past platinum status, cementing its reputation as one of the benchmarks of 1980's corporate rock.\n\n\"Crazy Crazy Nights\" was the first single from the album and reached #65 on \"Billboard\" Hot 100 and #37 on the Mainstream Rock Tracks. The song was a massive hit in UK where it reached #4 and, to date, is Kiss' highest-charting single in the UK. \"Crazy Crazy Nights\" also went into the Top 40 in Norway, Netherlands and Australia, where it reached #7, #28 and #34 respectively. The song would be performed regularly on live shows until Eric Carr's death in 1991, and returned to the setlist on the Sonic Boom Over Europe Tour in 2010.\n\nAdam Mitchell reportedly plays on the song along with Bruce Kulick.\n\nAccording to Paul Stanley, \"Bang Bang You\" is \"the classic story of boys and their toys.\" It was only performed live during the Crazy Nights World Tour.\n\n\"No, No, No\", was originally titled \"Assume the Position\" and later \"Down on All Fours\". It was based on Kulick's riff which he and Carr developed into a song in Carr's apartment in New York City so it could be finished by Gene Simmons. According to Carr, \"I just set up a double bass drumbeat on my drum machine. I just got this feel in my head, and I started coming up with this real staccato stuff for the verse.\" It is Kulick's favorite song because \"It's the fastest, ferocious thing, and it features me a lot.\" The song was only performed live during the \"Crazy Nights Tour\".\n\n\"Hell or High Water\" is a song based on Kulick's idea and riff which he came up with during the \"Asylum Tour\"; Simmons wrote the lyrics. The song was rarely performed during the \"Crazy Nights Tour\".\n\n\"When Your Walls Come Down\" is another song based on Kulick's riff that he came up with during the \"Asylum Tour\". Stanley had the chorus and with Mitchell's assistance, the song was finished. The song did not come out well when played live, so it was only played a couple of times.\n\nStanley recalled when he played the \"Reason to Live\" demo to Simmons, \"I remember calling up Gene and playing it to him down the phone... I played the song to Gene, and obviously the bomb had gone off at the other end. He was speechless.\" (its entirely possible he fell asleep) Stanley was always okay with having power ballads on Kiss albums, which first started with \"I Still Love You\" on \"Creatures of the Night\". Stanley also said, \"If a band was to be honest, they would tell you that at that time, the only hope for airplay was a ballad.\" A music video, directed by Marty Callner, was made and featured \"Playboy\" centerfold Eloise Broady. \"Reason to Live\" reached #64 Billboard Hot 100 and #34 on the Mainstream Rock Tracks and #33 in the UK. The song also managed to chart in the Netherlands, reaching #89. The music video for the song was a big hit on MTV in early 1988, regularly appearing as the top requested video on \"Dial MTV\".\n\n\"Good Girl Gone Bad\" was written by Simmons, friend Davitt Sigerson, and his songwriting partner Peter Diggins, whom Simmons never met. The song was lyrically based on something obvious from Simmons's community college period: \"A young lady who Gene went to college with, a girl who started out the demure virgin, all coy and unclaimed...then met up with 'The Tongue'! The only sad thing about the tale is that when she finally did give way, it was in the backseat of a car—and with someone else, a friend of Gene's, in fact.\" The song was not performed live.\n\n\"Turn On the Night\" was the third single off the album. A music video directed by Marty Callner was made in Worcester, Massachusetts on January 27, 1988. \"Turn On the Night\" only charted in the UK, where it reached #41.\n\n\"Thief in the Night\" was first recorded by Wendy O. Williams on her 1984 solo album \"WOW\".\n\nA few other songs were recorded for the album, but not included. Kulick, Child and Stanley wrote a song called \"Sword and Stone\" that did not manage to get on the album because Nevison was not thrilled with the song. Kulick later stated, \"I just felt really bad that Ron Nevison didn't like the song 'cause then it would have been on \"Crazy Nights\". But I couldn't control that. And the demo that is out there in bootleg form is pretty good. We did it at Electric Lady with Eric Carr, and it's a full-blown KISS track practically. I actually came up with that riff backstage on tour early on, \"Asylum\", I think. That's what happens. Paul didn't mind as much; I felt pretty bad about that.\" The song was offered to Canadian rock band Loverboy, and was re-recorded by their lead guitarist Paul Dean on his 1988 album \"Hard Core\". The song was also recorded by German heavy metal band Bonfire for a Wes Craven movie, \"Shocker\".\n\nCarr, Simmons and Mitchell wrote \"Dial 'L' for Love\". Carr, who sang the song, was the primary writer, and he later passed it to Simmons and Mitchell who completed it. As Carr stated, \"The song wasn't good at the time, so it didn't get on the album.\" A demo was made, but it did not include completed vocals. An instrumental recording of \"Dial 'L' for Love\" would be released on \"Unfinished Business\" in 2011.\n\n\"Are You Always This Hot\" is a song written by Simmons and Mitchell and is unique because it has not yet been found in collector's circles nor re-recorded by another artist. In the 1980s, Simmons had the ritual of making new songs that are based on some older songs, or simply spoken, he recycled them. And \"Are You Always This Hot\" is one of them. It was first written by Mitchell in 1981. The song \"Time Traveler\" was recorded during these sessions and later released on the 2001 \"KISS Box Set\". Some other songs that were written for the album, but never made it, are \"Boomerang\", \"'X' Marks the Spot\", \"Scratch and Sniff\", \"What Goes Up\", \"Hunger for Love\", \"Dirty Blonde\" and \"No Mercy\", although \"Boomerang\" would be later featured on \"Hot in the Shade\".\n\n\nKiss\n\nAdditional personnel\n\n"}
{"id": "2234735", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234735", "title": "Emperor Tomato Ketchup (album)", "text": "Emperor Tomato Ketchup (album)\n\nEmperor Tomato Ketchup is the fourth studio album by English-French rock band Stereolab. It was released on 18 March 1996 in the United Kingdom by Duophonic Records and on 9 April 1996 in the United States by Elektra Records. \n\nThe album takes its name from the 1971 experimental film \"Tomato Kecchappu Kōtei\" (\"Emperor Tomato Ketchup\") by Japanese author and director Shūji Terayama, whilst the artwork is inspired by the sleeve of a 1964 recording of composer Béla Bartók's \"Concerto for Orchestra\" by the Bamberg Symphony conducted by Heinrich Hollreiser.\n\nTwo singles were released from \"Emperor Tomato Ketchup\": \"Cybele's Reverie\" and \"Metronomic Underground\". A video was released for \"The Noise of Carpet\".\n\n\"Emperor Tomato Ketchup\" saw Stereolab experiment with building tracks around looped sounds instead of traditional riffs. Critic Tom Moon wrote that on the album, loops are manipulated in a fashion similar to hip hop and electronica production, overlaid together into \"richly textured collages\".\n\n\"Emperor Tomato Ketchup\" was released to positive reception, becoming the band's most commercially and critically successful album to date.\n\nBy August 1997, the album had sold over 46,000 units in the United States, according to Nielsen SoundScan.\n\n\"Emperor Tomato Ketchup\" has appeared in numerous lists of the greatest albums. \"Spin\" named it the 46th best album of the 1990s. It was ranked 51st on \"Pitchfork\"s list of the decade's best albums, with site writer Brent DiCrescenzo praising it as Stereolab's \"most definitive and recommended statement\" and recalling that it \"sounded wholly futuristic and alien\" at the time of its release. Tom Moon included \"Emperor Tomato Ketchup\" in his book \"1,000 Recordings to Hear Before You Die\" (2008), and it was also included in the book \"1001 Albums You Must Hear Before You Die\".\n\nCredits for \"Emperor Tomato Ketchup\" adapted from album liner notes.\n\nStereolab\nAdditional musicians\n\nProduction\n\nManagement\n"}
{"id": "2234740", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234740", "title": "Carlos Meléndez (politician)", "text": "Carlos Meléndez (politician)\n\nCarlos Meléndez Ramirez (February 1, 1861 – October 8, 1919) was born in San Salvador, El Salvador to Rafael Meléndez and Mercedes Ramírez (daughter of Norberto Ramírez). He was President of El Salvador from February 9, 1913 to August 29, 1914 and again from March 1, 1915 to December 21, 1918. He was the older brother of president Jorge Meléndez. He died in New York on October 8, 1919, aged 58.\n\nHe served as the President of the Legislative Assembly of El Salvador in 1913.\n"}
{"id": "2234743", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234743", "title": "Alfonso Quiñónez Molina", "text": "Alfonso Quiñónez Molina\n\nAlfonso Quiñónez Molina (January 11, 1874 – May 22, 1950) was President of El Salvador 21 December 1918 - 28 February 1919 and 1 March 1923 - 28 February 1927.\n\nHe served as the Vice President of Carlos Meléndez and Jorge Meléndez from March 1915 to March 1923.\n\nAlfonso was born to Lucio Quiñones and Aurelia Molina. \nHe was married to Leonor Meléndez Ramirez, who was a sister of the presidents Carlos and Jorge Meléndez.\n\nThe Melendez-Quinonez dynasty effectively ruled the country from 1914 to 1927. Molina was one of the founders of the Democratic Party of El Salvador. His policies largely served the interests of the coffee oligarchy of the country.\n\nIn 1918, Molina established the Lega Rojas, or the Red league,which intended to work as a mediator between the oligarchy and the peasants. It was deemed as the first attempt to form an official party in the country. However, the far-reaching oligarchic control of the prevented the organization from achieving its goal. Later it supported the candidacy of President Jorge Melendez. \n\nAfter becoming president in 1923, Molina ruled El Salvador like a ruthless dictator,harassing and suppressing any form of opposition. \n\nIt was common among Salvadoran presidents to declare a heir during the final days of their terms, as the constitution barred immediate re-election.\n\nMolina handed the presidency to Vice-president Romero. He thought that as Romero did not spring from a rich family, he would be a puppet of Molina. However, Molina's plan backfired,and he,along with other members of the dynasty organized a coup against the new president. But, the coup, which took place in December 1927, ultimately failed.\n\nMolina's decision to borrow money from other countries to pave the roads of San Salvador sparked controversy in the country, and this controversy was exploited by subsequent rulers, like Maximiliano Hernández Martinez.\n"}
{"id": "2234746", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234746", "title": "Jorge Meléndez", "text": "Jorge Meléndez\n\nJorge Meléndez Ramírez (April 15, 1871 – November 22, 1953), was born to Rafael Meléndez and Mercedes Ramírez (daughter of Norberto Ramírez). His wife was Tula Mazzini, and they had three children: Jorge (who died in his youth), María de los Angeles, and Ricardo. He was the younger brother of president Carlos Meléndez.\n\nHe served as 26th President of El Salvador from March 1, 1919 to March 1, 1923.\n"}
{"id": "2234749", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234749", "title": "Pío Romero Bosque", "text": "Pío Romero Bosque\n\nPío Romero Bosque (1860 – 10 December 1935) was President of El Salvador 1 March 1927–1 March 1931.\n\nRomero Bosque served as the Vice President of Alfonso Quiñónez Molina from March 1923 to March 1927.\n\nHe is reputed to be one of the few if not the only Salvadoran president who was able to strike a political balance in government during his administration. This balance is often known as the \"natural mix\" – a balance between concession to demands of the various components of society and repression of the same in a given country. He was a scion of the Meléndez-Quiñónez \"dynasty\", who rather than impose his own heir as President, allowed a democratisation of the country with its first free elections in 1931, won by Arturo Araujo.\n"}
{"id": "2234752", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234752", "title": "Arturo Araujo", "text": "Arturo Araujo\n\nArturo Araujo Fajardo (1878 – December 1, 1967) was the president of El Salvador from March 1, 1931 to December 2, 1931. He was overthrown in a military coup led by junior officers, and was forced to flee the country for Guatemala. An agricultural leader and engineer, Araujo had been elected in what is generally reckoned as the country's first honest presidential contest.\n\nArturo Araujo was a distant relative of Manuel Enrique Araujo. Pachita Tennant Mejía de Pike, who is familiar with the history of Salvadoran families, says that the Araujo family mostly comes from the town of Jucuapa, in the department of Usulután, El Salvador. However, Arturo Araujo's family originally came from Suchitoto, in the department of Cuscatlán, moving to Santa Tecla around 1885. \nHis parents were Enriqueta Fajardo de Araujo and Dr. Eugenio Araujo, Finance Minister in the Administration of General Francisco Menéndez. He spent some time studying in Liverpool, England. It was there that Araujo became involved with Labour Party politics. He also met his English wife, Dora née Morton, while a student there.\n\nAraujo was a member of land-owning oligarchy of El Salvador. He made an unsuccessful bid for presidency in 1919. Before that, his speech at the first workers congress in the western town of Armenia earned him the nickname \"Benefactor of the general people.\" In 1922, he made a failed attempt to invade the country from Honduras.\n\nThe free elections in 1931 failed to obtain a plurality for any of the candidate. Arturo won the elections with the backing of his supporters in the congress. Alberto Masferrer had proposed a nine-point reform program of the country, based on which the president promised food, cloth, work and housing to every Salvadoran. However, Government corruption and the Great Depression created disadvantage for the president.\n\nSoon he was overthrown in a military coup, and with his overthrow began five decades of military rule in the country.\n"}
{"id": "2234756", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234756", "title": "Andrés Ignacio Menéndez", "text": "Andrés Ignacio Menéndez\n\nBrigadier General Andrés Ignacio Menéndez (1 February 1879–7 June 1962) was born in Santa Ana, El Salvador.\n\nHe served as President of El Salvador from 29 August 1934 to 1 March 1935 and again from 9 May to 20 October 1944. He was overthrown in October 1944 by a military coup led by Col. Osmín Aguirre y Salinas and exiled to Guatemala.\n\nIgnacio gradually rose to the ranks in military. He became second lieutenant on 18 October 1898,Lieutenant on 24 March 1904,Captain on 1 August 1906, Captain Mayor on 24 May,1907, Lieutenant Colonel on 20 May, 1911,Colonel on 21 May, 1915, Brigadier general on 10 August 1920.\n\nAfter unrest broke out after the overthrow of president Hernandez, civil unrest broke out. Melendez declared amnesty for everyone who were part of the unrest, and thus led the country to a democratizing path. \n"}
{"id": "2234757", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234757", "title": "Dew Process", "text": "Dew Process\n\nDew Process is an Australian record label, based in Brisbane, Queensland, Australia, founded and owned by Australian music industry figure, Paul Piticco.\n\nThe label operates in two primary areas: traditional development of Australian talent and the provision of promotional, marketing and distribution services for artists based in other countries who are looking to establish their music in Australia and New Zealand.\n\nDew Process is part of the Secret Sounds group, with offices in Brisbane and Sydney. The label is distributed by Universal Music Australia.\n\n\nDiscography adapted from AllMusic and Dew Process.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2234763", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234763", "title": "Osmín Aguirre y Salinas", "text": "Osmín Aguirre y Salinas\n\nOsmín Aguirre y Salinas (December 25, 1889 – July 17, 1977) was President of El Salvador, from 21 October 1944 to 1 March 1945. A Colonel in the Salvadoran Army, Aguirre led two successful coups against the Salvadoran government: once in 1931 (installing General Maximiliano Hernández Martínez in power) and again in 1944 (installing himself in power). He left the power in 1945, with the assurance that his successor in the next election would be Salvador Castaneda Castro. He was later assassinated near his home in San Salvador at the age of 87.\n\nThe Supreme Court declared his term unconstitutional, even the United States did not recognize his coming to power, which deemed his regime pro-fascist. \n"}
{"id": "2234766", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234766", "title": "Chlorodifluoromethane", "text": "Chlorodifluoromethane\n\nChlorodifluoromethane or difluoromonochloromethane is a hydrochlorofluorocarbon (HCFC). This colorless gas is better known as HCFC-22, or R-22, or . It is commonly used as a propellant and refrigerant. These applications are being phased out in developed countries due to the compound's ozone depletion potential (ODP) and high global warming potential (GWP), although global use of R-22 continues to increase because of high demand in developing countries. R-22 is a versatile intermediate in industrial organofluorine chemistry, e.g. as a precursor to tetrafluoroethylene.\n\nWorldwide production of R-22 in 2008 was about 800Gg per year, up from about 450Gg per year in 1998, with most production in developing countries. R-22 use is increasing in developing countries, largely for air conditioning applications. Air conditioning sales are growing 20% annually in India and China.\n\nR-22 is prepared from chloroform:\n\nAn important application of R-22 is as a precursor to tetrafluoroethylene. This conversion involves pyrolysis to give difluorocarbene, which dimerizes:\n\nThe compound also yields difluorocarbene upon treatment with strong base and is used in the laboratory as a source of this reactive intermediate.\n\nThe pyrolysis of R-22 in the presence of chlorofluoromethane gives hexafluorobenzene.\n\nR-22 is often used as an alternative to the highly ozone-depleting CFC-11 and CFC-12, because of its relatively low ozone depletion potential of 0.055, among the lowest for chlorine-containing haloalkanes. However, even this lower ozone depletion potential is no longer considered acceptable.\n\nAs an additional environmental concern, R-22 is a powerful greenhouse gas with a GWP equal to 1810 (which indicates 1810 times as powerful as carbon dioxide). Hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs) are often substituted for R-22 because of their lower ozone depletion potential, but these refrigerants often have a higher GWP. R-410A, for example, is often substituted, but has a GWP of 1725. Another substitute is R404A with a GWP of 3900. Other substitute refrigerants are available with low GWP. Ammonia (R717), popular in the early years of refrigeration, has a GWP of <1 and remains a popular substitute on fishing vessels. Ammonia’s toxicity and flammability limit its safe application. \n\nPropane (R-290), is another example, and has a GWP of 3. Propane was the de facto refrigerant in systems smaller than industrial scale before the introduction of CFCs. The reputation of propane refrigerators as a fire hazard kept delivered ice and the ice box the overwhelming consumer choice despite its inconvenience and higher cost until safe CFC systems overcame the negative perceptions of refrigerators. Illegal to use as a refrigerant in the USA for decades, propane is now permitted for use in limited mass suitable for small refrigerators. It is not lawful to use in air conditioners, or larger refrigerators because of its flammability and potential for explosion.\n\nSince January 1, 2010, it has been illegal to use newly manufactured HCFCs to service refrigeration and air-conditioning equipment - only reclaimed and recycled HCFCs may be used. In practice this means that the gas has to be removed from the equipment before servicing and replaced afterwards, rather than refilling with new gas.\n\nSince January 1, 2015, it has been illegal to use any HCFCs to service refrigeration and air-conditioning equipment; broken equipment that used HCFC refrigerants must be replaced with equipment that does not use them.\n\nR-22 has been mostly phased out in new equipment in the United States under the Montreal Protocol, and has been replaced by other refrigerants with lower ozone depletion potential such as propane (R-290), Alltemp M high efficiency proprietary refrigerant, pentafluoroethane, R-134a (1,1,1,2-tetrafluoroethane), and blended mixtures of HFCs such as R-409A, R-410A, R-438A, and R-507A. See refrigerant for specific components of the R-400 and R-500 HFC blends used to replace R-22.\n\n\nR-407A is for use in low- and medium-temp refrigeration. Uses a polyolester (POE) oil.\n\nR-407C is for use in air conditioning. Uses a minimum of 20 percent POE oil.\n\nR-407F is for use in medium- and low-temperature refrigeration applications (supermarkets, cold storage, and process refrigeration); direct expansion system design only. Uses a POE oil.\n\nR-407H is for use in medium- and low-temperature refrigeration applications (supermarkets, cold storage, and process refrigeration); direct expansion system design only. Uses a POE oil.\n\nR-421A is for use in “air conditioning split systems, heat pumps, supermarket pak systems, dairy chillers, reach-in storage, bakery applications, refrigerated transport, self-contained display cabinets, and walk-in coolers.” Uses mineral oil (MO), Alkylbenzene (AB), and POE.\n\nR-422B is for use in low-, medium-, and high-temperature applications. It is not recommended for use in flooded applications.\n\nR-422C is for use in medium- and low-temperature applications. The TXV power element will need to be changed to a 404A/507A element and critical seals (elastomers) may need to be replaced.\n\nR-422D is for use in low-temp applications, and is mineral oil compatible.\n\nR-424A is for use in air conditioning as well as medium-temp refrigeration temperature ranges of 20 to 50˚F. It works with MO, alkylbenzenes (AB), and POE oils.\n\nR-427A is for use in air conditioning and refrigeration applications. It does not require all the mineral oil to be removed. It works with MO, AB, and POE oils.\n\nR-434A is for use in water cooled and process chillers for air conditioning and medium- and low-temperature applications. It works with MO, AB, and POE oils.\n\nR-438A (MO-99) is for use in low-, medium-, and high-temperature applications. It is compatible with all lubricants.\nR-458A is for use in air conditioning and refrigeration applications, without capacity or efficiency loss. Works with MO, AB, and POE oils. \n\nR-32 or HFC-32 (difluoromethane) is for use in air conditioning and refrigeration applications. it has zero ozone depletion potential (ODP) [2] and a global warming potential (GWP) index 675 times that of carbon dioxide.\n\nIt has two allotropes: crystalline II below 59K and crystalline I above 59K and below 115.73K.\n\nNext diagram represents the pressure-enthalpy R22 properties, using Refprop 9.0 database, using the International Institute of Refrigeration reference.\n\nEPA's analysis indicated the amount of existing inventory was between 22,700t and 45,400t.\n\nTBD: To be determined\nIn 2012 the EPA reduced the amount of R-22 by 45%, causing the price to rise by more than 300%. For 2013, the EPA has reduced the amount of R-22 by 29%.\n\n"}
{"id": "2234767", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234767", "title": "Salvador Castaneda Castro", "text": "Salvador Castaneda Castro\n\nGeneral Salvador Castaneda Castro (6 August 1888 – 5 March 1965) was President of El Salvador from 1 March 1945 to 14 December 1948. He had previously served as Interior Minister under President Maximiliano Hernández Martínez. He was elected unopposed during martial law in January 1945, and was overthrown in a coup by other military officers in December 1948.\n\nA general strike had begun on 19 April 1944 in reaction to the repressive policies of the President Maximiliano Hernández Martínez, which included acts of civil disobedience by workers, students, and government employees, who refused to attend work or school during the strike. During the strike a member of the police killed the son of a wealthy United States immigrant. The US ambassador demanded an explanation, and the struggling economy also contributed to the pressure on Hernández Martínez, who resigned. Before leaving for exile, Hernández Martínez appointed General Andrés Ignacio Menéndez as provisional president. Although the strike succeeded in ousting Hernández Martínez, its leaders were not organized well enough to form an enduring organization. Hernández Martínez' supporters also succeeded in arresting or exiling many of the leaders of the strike.\n\nIn October 1944, Osmín Aguirre y Salinas, who had been the director of the National Police, staged a counter-coup along with many other very conservative military officials. He promptly repressed most dissident groups. This repression radicalized the oppression, which armed itself in neighboring Guatemala, which had just overthrown its dictator Jorge Ubico during the Guatemalan Revolution. An armed uprising was launched by students in San Salvador on 8 December, followed by an insurgent attack from Guatemala four days later. Both movements were crushed by the Aguirre government, which thus consolidated its position in power.\n\nIn early 1945, Aguirre transferred power to Castaneda Castro. In January 1945, Castaneda Castro was elected president, with the backing of the elites that had supported Hernández Martínez. He contested the election as a candidate of \"Partido Agraria\", or the Agrarian Party. He faced no opposition in the election, and the country remained under martial law during the entire process. Castaneda Castro had previously served as the interior minister in the government of Hernández Martínez, as had many of the ministers that Castaneda Castro appointed.\n\nThe Castaneda Castro government passed a measure that loosened the restrictions on labor unions in January 1946. However, the government did not liberalize its response to strikes; In October 1946, workers from a bakers union and a textile factory led a general strike in the hope of ousting Castaneda Castro from the presidency. The strike was put down by the government, and two hundred workers were arrested. In September 1946, in response to a further strike, Castaneda Castro disbanded all the labor organizations and exiled their leaders. The situation in the country during Castro's government has been described by historian Paul Almeida as a \"state of siege. R.V. Elam stated that the governments of Aguirre and Castaneda Castro \"reestablished elitist rule, [and] restricted political activity.\" James Dunkerley has stated that during Castaneda Castro's government, the country saw an economic recovery as the price of coffee rose, even as a return to democracy became less likely as the cold war strengthened anti-communist sentiment.\n\nIn 1945 Castaneda Castro met Guatemalan President Juan Jose Arevalo to discuss the possibility of a Central American Union. In 1946, the two presidents signed the Pact of Santa Ana, and a year afterward they signed the Pact of the Confederate Union of the Central American States. However, this project was never fully realized. Castro was deposed in a coup in December 1948. The coup was led by many younger military officers.\n"}
{"id": "2234771", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234771", "title": "Óscar Osorio", "text": "Óscar Osorio\n\nÓscar Osorio Hernández (December 14, 1910 – March 6, 1969) ruled as a member of the revolutionary government Council of December 14, 1948 to September 14, 1950. He was President of El Salvador from September 14, 1950 until September 14, 1956.\n\nOsorio was born in the town of Sonsonate, El Salvador, on December 14, 1910.\n\nHe married twice: first with Leticia Rosales, with whom she had three children: Ana Maya, Rhina and Oscar. His second wife was Esperanza Llerena and had two children, Cecilia and Humberto.\n\nHis primary education was made in Sonsonate, Santa Ana and San Salvador, and worked in the Military School Captain General Gerardo Barrios in the capital.\n\nHe did his higher education in various national and foreign academies, but mostly 3 years in the War College in Turin, Italy, where he returned to the country in October 1943.\n\nOn December 14, 1948, there was a coup d'état of the \"young soldiers\" against President Salvador Castaneda Castro. Osorio, in the end with the rank of major, was added as a diplomatic mission in El Salvador in Mexico, and was called to lead the provisional government called the Revolutionary Council government, formed by Major Oscar Bolaños and civilians Reynaldo Galindo Pohl and Humberto Costa.\n\nUnder the new constitution of 1950 the presidential elections were held. In the elections of that year, he presented himself as a candidate of the Revolutionary Party of Democratic Unification, founded in 1945 and beat the only opposition candidate, Colonel José Menéndez Ascencio, who was presented by the Action Party Renovadora.\n\nHe assumed the constitutional presidency of El Salvador in 1950 and Osorio's government coincided with a period of calm because the coffee and cotton prices rose considerably. His presidency had adopted a plan of social reforms including the introduction of Social Security for urban workers and the creation of the Institute of Urban Housing (IVU) and developmental measures (pulse limited industrialization). With what he perceived the state in taxes on exports of coffee were initiated numerous public works, particularly the establishment of the Executive Committee on Ports, ECA, the construction of the Hydroelectric Dam \"November 5, and the Coastal Highway the \"Golden Bridge\" on the Lempa River, numerous schools and multifamily housing complexes. It was also celebrated with great pomp the anniversary of the coup d'état of December 14 (officially known as the Revolution of 1948).These economic reforms largely helped the middle class and urban residents. \n\nThere was also a strong impetus to the arts, and he established a scholarship scheme for artists to study abroad.\n\nAt the same time, however, together with the democratic opening, Osorio created rules that put the country under a suspension of individual rights and collective, known as the Law on Defense of the Constitutional Order. Based on it, from 1952 until the end of his term, Osorio had developed a policy of selective repression against labor leaders and students, before the rise of the popular movement that emerged from the struggles that led to the overthrow of General Maximiliano Hernández Martínez in 1944. Osorio passed as political disappearances the imprisonment of the most important leaders of the Salvadoran left—labor leaders Salvador Cayetano Carpio and his wife Tula Alvarenga, the student leader Gabriel Gallegos Valdés and academic Celestino Castro. All were interrogated and tortured by the National Police, as documented in his book Abduction and Hood, first published in 1956.\n\nThe features of the government Osorio called Revolution 48 were:\n\nHis continued representation as of 1932 as the government of the oligarchy and imperialism.\n\nWith the rising price of coffee, there was a boom in the country.\n\nIn tandem with the high rhetoric, the government of Colonel Osorio accentuated the line of repression and terror against the democratic movement organized in the country. After splitting the labor movement and supporting a central reactionary movement with the full support of the state machinery, the Osores-led government acted against the organization of the working class in El Salvador in an attempt to repress it, albeit less intensely than in 1932.\n\nAt the time of Osorio, people began growing cotton on a large scale in the plains of the coast, especially in the east.\n\nAnother important fact is the Central American economic integration treaties signed in 1951.\n\nOsorio died in Methodist Hospital in Houston, Texas, US, as a result of kidney failure complicated by pneumonia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2234773", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234773", "title": "Soldier Fuel", "text": "Soldier Fuel\n\nThe Soldier Fuel bar, formerly known as Hooah! bar, is a dairy-based calcium-enriched energy bar created by the United States military in 1996. It was originally provided to military personnel packaged within a field ration, such as the Meal, Ready-to-Eat, Meal Cold Weather, or First Strike Ration.\n\nThe name comes from the word \"hooah\", an expression of high morale, strength and confidence most commonly used by the United States Army. As the Marine Corps preferred the word \"Oohrah!\" instead, the bar originally had \"HOOAH!\" and the US Army seal on one side and \"OOH-RAH!\" and the US Marine Corps seal on the other; newer wrappers have both logos on the same side. The commercial version features the United States roundel instead.\n\nThe original military HOOAH! Bar came in apple-cinnamon, chocolate, raspberry, cran-raspberry, and peanut butter flavors. The smaller First Strike bars (provided in the concentrated First Strike Ration) come in the same flavors, except peanut butter; mocha is used instead. \n\nIn 2004, D'Andrea Brothers LLC licensed \"HOOAH!\" for commercial sales, and the company started marketing the bar to the public in 2004. The energy bar is now named \"Soldier Fuel\" instead of HOOAH!, and provides 270 to 280 calories, 10 grams of protein, 8 or 9 grams of fat and 40 grams to 42 grams of carbohydrates. While \"Soldier Fuel\" was offered in both chocolate and peanut butter in 2017, currently (early 2020) it is offered only in chocolate.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2234774", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234774", "title": "José María Lemus", "text": "José María Lemus\n\nLieutenant Colonel José María Lemus Lopez (July 22, 1911 – March 31, 1993) was President of El Salvador from 14 September 1956 to 26 October 1960. Before becoming a president, he served as an undersecretary of defense and a minister of the interior.\n\nHe was born into a family of humble beginnings in La Unión, El Salvador. He was undersecretary of defense from 1948-1949. As President Óscar Osorio's choice for the successor to presidency, he antagonized many by fighting against corruption.. Having won the disputed election of 1956, he appointed prominent civilians into his government and allowed many exiles to return the country. \n\nHe was a member of the Party of Democratic Unification. He continued socio-economic reforms of his predecessor, but there was no improvement in the living standards of the working class. He promulgated the Tenant Law, which protects the rights of the renters of houses or \"Mesones, called also Vecindades\" (humble apartment units with shared bathrooms). The law stipulating that landlords cannot increase the rent more than 10% every year made rent contract in houses obligatory with the objective of protecting the renter.\n\nHis government repealed the anti-sedition laws, therefore antagonizing the military. His government's decision to control the production of coffee infuriated the public. Soon after the Cuban revolution, there were widespread student protests. There was a subsequent roundup of dissidents and protesters.\n\nFollowing these uncertainties,he was overthrown in a bloodless coup and a new, short-lived Junta government was formed consisting of three military (Miguel Ángel Castillo, César Yanes Urías, Rubén Alonso Rosales) and three civilian (Ricardo Falla Cáceres, Fabio Castillo Figueroa, Rene Fortín Magaña.)\n\nAfter his exile, he lived in New York City till his death. He died of hodgekins disease, leaving behind a wife and eight children.\n"}
{"id": "2234775", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234775", "title": "Sharlee D'Angelo", "text": "Sharlee D'Angelo\n\nSharlee D'Angelo (born Charles Petter Andreason, 27 April 1973) is the Swedish bassist for the melodic death metal band Arch Enemy, as well as the classic rock/AOR band the Night Flight Orchestra, the stoner metal band Spiritual Beggars and the blackened thrash/speed metal band Witchery.\n\nD'Angelo has also been in various bands in the past, either as a studio session player or full member. These include Arch Enemy, Mercyful Fate, Dismember and King Diamond.\n\nHe plays with Dunlop picks and primarily used Rickenbacker bass guitars in his early career, before switching to playing and endorsing Ibanez Iceman bass guitars in 2005. Ibanez now produces the Sharlee D'Angelo signature bass guitar, called the SDB2, which is tuned to D'Angelo's preferred C standard (Low to High – C,F,Bb,Eb).\n\nD'Angelo has cited a number of bass players as early influences, including Roger Glover, Glenn Hughes, Steve Dawson, Peter Baltes, and John Entwistle.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2234780", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234780", "title": "Eusebio Rodolfo Cordón Cea", "text": "Eusebio Rodolfo Cordón Cea\n\nDr Eusebio Rodolfo Cordón Cea (December 16, 1899 – January 9, 1966) was provisional president of El Salvador between January 25 and July 1, 1962.\n\nHe served as the President of the Legislative Assembly of El Salvador in 1962.\n"}
{"id": "2234784", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234784", "title": "Julio Adalberto Rivera Carballo", "text": "Julio Adalberto Rivera Carballo\n\nJulio Adalberto Rivera Carballo (September 2, 1921 – July 29, 1973) was the 34th President of El Salvador 1 July 1962 - 1 July 1967.\n\nRivera was born in Zacatecoluca, El Salvador. He was a military officer who helped lead a military coup in 1961. From January 1961 to September 1961 he was a member of the Civic Military Directory which ruled El Salvador at that time. In 1962 he was elected President for a 5-year term as the candidate of the National Conciliation Party. As a president, he signed the Alianza para el Progreso with the United States and accepted a good amount of money to build low-cost housing for Salvadorans such as the Zacamil buildings and other public works. The Times Magazines from March 16, 1962, said \"Colonel Julio Rivera, is loosening the control of \"the 14,\" a group of land and banking families who have ruled the country since Spanish colonial days\", and recognized the biggest effort from the 19 Latin American countries that signed the document during the term of U.S. President John F. Kennedy. \n\nAt the same time, he started a Secret Service called ANSESAL and the head of this agency was Coronel Medrano, a CIA informant. He is known to have started Death Squads in El Salvador using military intelligence and personnel. They would interrogate and eliminate leftist suspects in both the countryside and in the capital. After leaving public office he went on to serve as Ambassador of El Salvador to the United States and the United Nations. During his tenure as president, he was often seen driving through the streets of San Salvador on his 1965 Harley-Davidson motorcycle.\n\nFrom 1968 to 1973, he served as Ambassador to the United States. He died on July 29, 1973, aged 51.\n"}
{"id": "2234786", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234786", "title": "Steven Lewington", "text": "Steven Lewington\n\nSteven Paul Lewington (born 25 February 1983) is an English professional wrestler. He is best known for his time in World Wrestling Entertainment, where he performed under the ring name DJ Gabriel. Lewington currently wrestles independently as \"The Swole-verine\" Bronson.\n\nAfter graduating from Senior School Sixth Form at the Forest School Winnersh, Lewington attended Farnborough College of Technology where he earned a Higher National Diploma in Aeronautical Engineering.\n\nAfter developing an interest in professional wrestling, however, Lewington applied and was accepted to attend an Ohio Valley Wrestling (OVW) tryout in America between 23 and 28 February 2003. Lewington's official training began 8 months later in the beginners' class at the Old Davis arena.\n\nLewington would return to England in late 2004 where he would work with All Star Wrestling. Throughout early 2005, Lewington would train and appear with ASW as well as becoming the subject of an episode of UKTV People's \"Secret Life of the Gym\".\n\nWhile WWE was touring England in 2005, Lewington would make three appearances on its main programming, once as a jobber on Carlito's Cabana interview segment, again as a jobber to Kurt Angle after Angle disrespected England and once as part of the WWE security squad that helped keep the warring \"Raw\" and \"SmackDown!\" wrestlers apart. Other British wrestlers including Robbie Brookside and Thunder were a part of the security team.\n\nAfter his appearances in WWE programming in 2005, Lewington stayed in the United Kingdom to compete for the All Star Wrestling (ASW) promotion, under the ring name Steve Sonic. On 17 January 2006 in Croydon, Sonic faced Drew McDonald in a ladder match for the ASW British Heavyweight Championship, and won. Sonic would remain champion for several months before relinquishing the title to return to WWE's developmental promotion in July 2006.\n\nDuring April 2006, WWE would once again tour England allowing Lewington to make another appearance on \"Raw\" on 24 April, losing to Umaga. His performance in this match would earn Lewington a developmental deal. After receiving his contract, Lewington was sent to OVW and formed a tag team called \"Terminal Velocity\" with Chet the Jett. After Florida Championship Wrestling (FCW) opened, however, Terminal Velocity was moved down to the new territory. After a brief run in FCW, Terminal Velocity was called back up to OVW and won the OVW Southern Tag Team Championship for the first time, giving Lewington the first tag team championship of his career. On 26 September 2007, Lewington and Chet lost the championship to The James Boys (KC James and Kassidy James). After their title loss, both members of Terminal Velocity were moved back down to FCW. After their return to FCW, however, Terminal Velocity split up when Chet renamed himself Mariouz Jablonski and developed an in-ring persona based on his Polish ancestry.\n\nLewington later began teaming with Heath Miller and both advanced to the finals of a tournament to crown the inaugural FCW Florida Tag Team Champions, but they were defeated by The Puerto Rican Nightmares (Eddie Colón and Eric Pérez). Lewington and Miller defeated Brandon Groom and Greg Jackson and The Thoroughbreds (Johnny Curtis and Kevin Kiley) en route to the finals. On 4 March 2008 he changed his name to \"Jack Gabriel\".\n\nOn 18 November 2008, Lewington made his debut as a face in ECW, under the ring name \"DJ Gabriel\", with a dancing persona, and was managed by Alicia Fox. He defeated local wrestler Sal Rinauro in his debut match for the brand. Over the next weeks, he defeated several jobbers, before defeating Paul Burchill on the last episode of \"ECW\" in 2008. On 13 January 2009 episode of \"ECW\", Gabriel and Fox defeated The Burchills, Paul and Katie Lea, in a mixed tag team match. On 24 February, Lewington suffered his \"ECW\" first loss since coming to the brand against Mark Henry. Several weeks later Gabriel lost to Tyson Kidd in a singles match, which was his last televised match on the brand. On 15 April 2009, Fox returned to the SmackDown brand as a part of the 2009 Supplemental Draft, leaving Gabriel on his own.\n\nAfter Fox returned to SmackDown, Lewington was sent back to FCW and developed a new character of a \"true British man\", while his ring name was tweaked to simply Gabriel. After losing a match and, in storyline, being suspended from FCW, Lewington then began wrestling under a mask as Mr. FCW. Lewington would eventually \"win\" back his place on the FCW roster, and would alternate between his Gabriel and Mr. FCW characters before being released from his contract in January 2010.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2234787", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234787", "title": "Colman", "text": "Colman\n\nColmán or Colman is both a given name and a surname. Notable people with the name include:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2234788", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234788", "title": "1877–78 in English football", "text": "1877–78 in English football\n\nThe 1877–78 season was the seventh season of competitive football in England.\n\nWanderers became the first club to win the FA Cup three times in a row after beating Royal Engineers 3–1 in this season's final. It was the fifth time they had won the competition overall. They never won it again.\n\nA disastrous day for England saw them trounced by Scotland seven goals to two.\n"}
{"id": "2234792", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234792", "title": "Betsey Johnson", "text": "Betsey Johnson\n\nBetsey Johnson (born August 10, 1942) is an American fashion designer best known for her feminine and whimsical designs. Many of her designs are considered \"over the top\" and embellished. She also is known for doing a cartwheel ending in a split at the end of her fashion shows.\n\nJohnson was born in Wethersfield, Connecticut, the second of three children born to Lena and John Johnson. She has an elder sister, Sally, and a younger brother, Robert. Johnson grew up in Terryville, Connecticut and took many dance classes, which inspired her love of costumes.\n\nFollowing her graduation from high school, Johnson studied at the Pratt Institute and then later graduated Phi Beta Kappa from Syracuse University where she was a member of the Alpha Xi Delta women's sorority. After graduation, she spent a summer as an intern at \"Mademoiselle\" magazine.\n\nJohnson's fashion career started after she entered and won the \"Mademoiselle\" Guest Editor Contest. Within a year, she was the in-house designer for Manhattan boutique Paraphernalia. Johnson became part of both the youthquake fashion movement and Andy Warhol's underground scene, along with The Velvet Underground, Edie Sedgwick, Nico, and Lou Reed. In 1969, she opened a boutique called Betsey Bunky Nini on New York City's Upper East Side. Edie Sedgwick was her house model and Johnson designed the clothing Sedgwick wore on her last film, \"Ciao! Manhattan\". \n\nIn the 1970s, Johnson took control of the fashion label \"Alley Cat\" which was popular with the rock 'n roll musicians of the day. In her first year, her debut collection for Alley Cat reportedly sold $5 million in volume. In September 1971 she received the Coty Fashion Critics' Award (a 'Winnie').\n\nIn 1978, Johnson started her own fashion line. Her second collection did not sell well, leaving her with 3,000 pieces of spring clothing and insufficient funds to stage a 1981 fashion show to sell them and Johnson opened a retail store in the SoHo area of New York City. She designed the dress that Lisa Loeb wore in the music video for her 1994 hit \"Stay (I Missed You)\".\n\nIn 2002, Johnson was inducted into the Fashion Walk of Fame. Her bronze plaque held one of her original sketches. In 2003, she expanded her line for 2004 to include handbags, accessories, hats, and scarves.\n\nIn 2008, Johnson was a contributor to Carrie Borzillo-Vrenna's book \"Cherry Bomb\".\n\nThe National Arts Club awarded Johnson the 2009 Medal of Honor for Lifetime Achievement in Fashion. She once described her style as a formula: \"Take a leotard and add a skirt.\" As of 2011, she has more than 65 stores worldwide.\n\nOn April 26, 2012, Betsey Johnson, LLC filed voluntarily for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection.\n\nOn September 12, 2012, she celebrated 40 years of her brand with a retrospective fashion show with Cyndi Lauper performing.\n\nAs of May 2013, Johnson and her daughter Lulu Johnson have a reality TV show that airs on the Style Network.\n\nOn September 4, 2014, it was announced that Johnson would be one of the celebrities competing on the 19th season of \"Dancing with the Stars\". The couple was eliminated in week 4, finishing in 10th place.\n\nIn 2018, Johnson appeared on Sugar Rush as a guest judge (Episode: \"Frosted Fashion\").\n\nJohnson is a long-term breast cancer survivor.\n\nJohnson has been married three times. She married John Cale in 1968. They divorced in 1969. Johnson then married Jeffrey Oliviere in 1981. They divorced in 1984. \n\nJohnson's current husband is Brian Reynolds, they married in 1997.\n\n"}
{"id": "2234793", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234793", "title": "July 25 (Eastern Orthodox liturgics)", "text": "July 25 (Eastern Orthodox liturgics)\n\nJuly 24 - Eastern Orthodox calendar - July 26\n\nFor July 25th, Orthodox Churches on the Old Calendar commemorate the Saints listed on July 12.\n\nAll fixed commemorations below are celebrated on August 7 by Old Calendar.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nGreek Sources\nRussian Sources\n"}
{"id": "2234797", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234797", "title": "SpeedStep", "text": "SpeedStep\n\nEnhanced SpeedStep is a series of dynamic frequency scaling technologies (codenamed Geyserville and including SpeedStep, SpeedStep II, and SpeedStep III) built into some Intel microprocessors that allow the clock speed of the processor to be dynamically changed (to different \"P-states\") by software. This allows the processor to meet the instantaneous performance needs of the operation being performed, while minimizing power draw and heat generation. EIST (SpeedStep III) was introduced in several Prescott 6 series in the first quarter of 2005, namely the Pentium 4 660. Intel Speed Shift Technology (SST) was introduced in Intel Skylake microarchitecture Processor.\n\nEnhanced Intel SpeedStep is sometimes abbreviated as EIST. Intel's trademark of \"INTEL SPEEDSTEP\" was cancelled due to the trademark being invalidated in 2012.\n\nRunning a processor at high clock speeds allows for better performance. However, when the same processor is run at a lower frequency (speed), it generates less heat and consumes less power. In many cases, the core voltage can also be reduced, further reducing power consumption and heat generation. By using SpeedStep, users can select the balance of power conservation and performance that best suits them, or even change the clock speed dynamically as the processor burden changes.\n\nThe power consumed by a CPU with a capacitance \"C\", running at frequency \"f\" and voltage \"V\" is approximately:\n\nFor a given processor, \"C\" is a fixed value. However, \"V\" and \"f\" can vary considerably. For example, for a 1.6 GHz Pentium M, the clock frequency can be stepped down in 200 MHz decrements over the range from 1.6 to 0.6 GHz. At the same time, the voltage requirement decreases from 1.484 to 0.956 V. The result is that the power consumption theoretically goes down by a factor of 6.4. In practice, the effect may be smaller because some CPU instructions use less energy per tick of the CPU clock than others. For example, when an operating system is not busy, it tends to issue x86 halt (HLT) instructions, which suspend operation of parts of the CPU for a time period, so it uses less energy per tick of the CPU clock than when executing productive instructions in its normal state. For a given rate of work, a CPU running at a higher clock rate will execute a greater proportion of HLT instructions. The simple equation which relates power, voltage and frequency above also does not take into account the static power consumption of the CPU. This tends not to change with frequency, but does change with temperature and voltage. Hot electrons, and electrons exposed to a stronger electric field are more likely to migrate across a gate as \"gate leakage\" current, leading to an increase in static power consumption.\n\nOlder processors such as the Pentium 4-M, which use older versions of SpeedStep, have fewer clock-speed increments. SpeedStep technology is partly responsible for the reduced power consumption of Intel’s Pentium M processor, part of the Centrino brand.\n\nMicrosoft has reported that there may be problems previewing video files when SpeedStep (or the AMD equivalent PowerNow!) is enabled under Windows 2000 or Windows XP.\n\n\nIn contrast, AMD has supplied and supported drivers for its competing PowerNow! technology that work on Windows 2000, ME, 98, and NT.\n\n"}
{"id": "2234805", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234805", "title": "List of soft drinks by country", "text": "List of soft drinks by country\n\nThis is a list of soft drinks in order of the brand's country of origin. A soft drink is a beverage that typically contains water (often, but not always, carbonated water), usually a sweetener and usually a flavoring agent. The sweetener may be sugar, high-fructose corn syrup, fruit juice, sugar substitutes (in the case of diet drinks) or some combination of these. Soft drinks may also contain caffeine, colorings, preservatives and other ingredients.\n\nNote: soft drinks that are sold in more than one country are listed in this article only under their country of origin.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nAkij Group\n\nPran Foods Ltd.\n\nGlobe Soft Drinks\n\nBD Thai Food and Beverage Ltd.\n\nAl-Amin Beverages\n\nOthers\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nTarumba\nSunrise Orange drink\nRaro\nCoconut drinks\nKava\n\n\n\n\n\n\nFrucano Juice\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThree Choice – formerly known as Don Don, sold in various flavours including cola flavour, apple, grape and cherry\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nNiko Soft Drink\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nMORE juices-made by Rudisa Beverages\nBasic One bottled water\nWahaha bottled water\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nSingha\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nFesta Soft drinks - Festa Grenadine, Festa Orange, Festa Pineapple, Festa Cola(contains extracts of coca leaves\n), FestaTangawizi and FestaLemon\n"}
{"id": "2234806", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234806", "title": "Greatest Hits (Boston album)", "text": "Greatest Hits (Boston album)\n\nGreatest Hits is the first compilation album by the American rock band Boston. The album, released on June 3, 1997, features songs originally released on both the Epic and MCA labels, as well as three previously unreleased recordings (\"Tell Me\", \"Higher Power\" and \"The Star-Spangled Banner\"). Tom Scholz, the band's leader, felt that the album's sound quality was not up to his standards, so a remastered version of the album was released in 2009 with a slightly different track listing. Boston embarked on a tour for this album both times it was released.\n\nThe album was certified double platinum by the RIAA on December 4, 2003, and it has sold 2,234,000 copies in the United States as of August 2014.\n\nThe cover features the guitar-shaped spaceship flying low over a planet with turquoise rocks and a turquoise tower in the distance. The backside shows a personification of New York City. To this day it is still a mystery why they choose NYC instead of Boston, the city they are named after and which they usually show on their artwork.\n\n\n\"Higher Power\" Peaked at #17 on the Billboard Heritage Rock Chart on July 5, 1997. It spent 9 weeks on the chart. \n"}
{"id": "2234812", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234812", "title": "Infinity-Borel set", "text": "Infinity-Borel set\n\nIn set theory, a subset of a Polish space formula_1 is ∞-Borel if it\ncan be obtained by starting with the open subsets of formula_1, and transfinitely iterating the operations of complementation and wellordered union. Note that the set of ∞-Borel sets may not actually be closed under wellordered union; see below.\n\nMore formally: we define by simultaneous transfinite recursion the notion of ∞-Borel code, and of the interpretation of such codes. Since formula_1 is Polish, it has a countable base. Let formula_4 enumerate that base (that is, formula_5 is the formula_6 basic open set). Now:\n\n\nNow a set is ∞-Borel if it is the interpretation of some ∞-Borel code.\n\nThe axiom of choice implies that \"every\" set can be wellordered, and therefore that every subset of every Polish space is ∞-Borel. Therefore, the notion is interesting only in contexts where AC does not hold (or is not known to hold). Unfortunately, without the axiom of choice, it is not clear that the ∞-Borel sets \"are\" closed under wellordered union. This is because, given a wellordered union of ∞-Borel sets, each of the individual sets may have \"many\" ∞-Borel codes, and there may be no way to choose one code for each of the sets, with which to form the code for the union.\n\nThe assumption that every set of reals is ∞-Borel is part of AD+, an extension of the axiom of determinacy studied by Woodin.\n\nIt is very tempting to read the informal description at the top of this article as claiming that the ∞-Borel sets are the smallest class of subsets of formula_1 containing all the open sets and closed under complementation and wellordered union. That is, one might wish to dispense with the ∞-Borel codes altogether and try a definition like this:\n\nThis set is manifestly closed under well-ordered unions, but without AC it cannot be proved equal to the ∞-Borel sets (as defined in the previous section). Specifically, it is instead the closure of the ∞-Borel sets under \"all\" well-ordered unions, even those for which a choice of codes cannot be made.\n\nFor subsets of Baire space or Cantor space, there is a more concise (if less transparent) alternative definition, which turns out to be equivalent. A subset \"A\" of Baire space is ∞-Borel just in case there is a set of ordinals \"S\" and a first-order formula \"φ\" of the language of set theory such that, for every \"x\" in Baire space,\n\nwhere \"L\"[\"S\",\"x\"] is Gödel's constructible universe relativized to \"S\" and \"x\". When using this definition, the ∞-Borel code is made up of the set \"S\" and the formula \"φ\", taken together.\n\n"}
{"id": "2234816", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234816", "title": "J. Walter Thompson", "text": "J. Walter Thompson\n\nJ. Walter Thompson (JWT) is an advertisement holding company. It was incorporated by James Walter Thompson in 1896. It has been owned by WPP plc since 1987. On November 26, 2018, it was announced that it will merge with fellow WPP agency \"Wunderman\" to form Wunderman Thompson.\n\nThe New York Times wrote that \"the agency traces its roots to a newspaper space brokerage that began operation on Dec. 5, 1864.\"\nAs of 2014, among its most longstanding clients are Unilever/Lever Brothers (109+ years); Mondelēz International/Kraft Foods (89+ years); Kimberly-Clark (84+ years); Nestlé (81+ years); Kellogg's (80+ years); and Ford Motor (67+ years). Other notable clients include Avon, Treasury Wine Estates, Edgewell/Schick, Tudor, HSBC, Johnson & Johnson, Newell, Air Canada and the United States Marine Corps.\n\nJWT celebrated its 150th anniversary in 2014 by reverting to its \"classic\" J. Walter Thompson name. The company had self-identified as JWT beginning \"in 2005, 18 years after it was acquired by WPP.\"\n\nIt traces its origins to the Carlton & Smith agency, which opened its doors in 1864, one of the first known advertising agencies in the United States. Founder William James Carlton started selling advertising space in religious magazines, but almost nothing is known about the partner named Smith.\n\nIn 1868, Carlton hired James Walter Thompson as a bookkeeper. Eventually, Thompson found that soliciting and sales were much more profitable, and he became a very effective salesman for the small company.\n\nIn 1877, Thompson purchased the business of his employer for $500 and, a year later, purchased the office furniture for $800. He changed the company designation to J. Walter Thompson, as he felt that James Thompson was too common a name in New York. One of his first clients was a personal friend – Robert Wood Johnson, one of the three brothers who founded Johnson & Johnson – for whom Thomson personally wrote advertising for the toothpaste brand \"Zonweis\"\n\nThompson, who had served as a U.S. Marine during the Civil War, had first been employed by Carlton & Smith to sell space in religious publications. Under his leadership, the agency became the seller of advertising space in many American magazines and periodicals. By 1889, 80 percent of the advertising in the United States was placed through J. Walter Thompson.\n\nMore growth followed, and J. Walter Thompson became the first American agency to expand internationally with the opening of J. Walter Thompson London in 1899. The business subsequently expanded across the globe, being one of the first American agencies in Egypt, South Africa and Asia.\n\nJ. Walter Thompson was among the first agencies to employ writers and artists to create interesting advertisements for their clients, replacing the standard ads created by in-house departments. It was also the first agency to provide a wide range of advertising services to clients, including copy, layout, package design, trademark development and rudimentary, market research. Many of these methods can be seen in notable work that the agency has produced, including work for Kraft Cheese that resulted in the creation of the grilled-cheese sandwich, a campaign for Swift & Co. that added measurement marks to sticks of butter, the Toys \"R\" Us Kid slogan and jingle, De Beers diamond ads (\"A Diamond is Forever\") and the \"I wish I were an Oscar Mayer Weiner\" campaign.\n\nWPP's J. Walter Thompson was headquartered in New York City. It had more than 200 offices in over 90 countries and employed over 12,000 marketing professionals. The agency is credited with hiring the first female copywriter, Helen Lansdowne Resor. While with the agency, she pioneered ideas including celebrity testimonials, sex appeal, and was responsible for developing its reputation as an agency where bright young women could succeed. Lansdowne went on to become the first female creative director in the industry. To honor this legacy, in 2014 J. Walter Thompson announced a $250,000 scholarship opportunity called the Helen Lansdowne Resor Scholarship. It assists and promotes talented female creative advertising students who aspire to join the ranks of creative leadership.\n\nJ. Walter Thompson Co. ceased its independent existence when holding company owner WPP announced in November, 2018 that it would be merged into the digital agency Wunderman. While called a merger of equals, observers note that it is really a takeover by Wunderman and an end to JWT. Noting of the end of America’s first ad agency that its \"demise is a metaphor of the demise of Madison Avenue.\" In a special 1964 commemorative issue celebrating the agency's centennial, Advertising Age wrote that the \"history and expansion overseas\" of the J. Walter Thompson Co. \"seems peculiarly to match the whole history of modern advertising.\" That statement made 56 years ago remains true when talking about the end of J. Walter Thompson Co. amid the marketing and media turmoil of today.\n\nJWT has launched Colloquial, a content-marketing joint venture unit with Group SJR; acquired WANDA Digital, an independent digital agency in Turkey; and acquired iStrategyLabs (ISL), a Washington, D.C.-based digital agency.\n\nThe New York Times reported that \"some two million other documents ... (are) .. \nwithin the J. Walter Thompson Archives at Duke University in Durham, N.C.\"\n\nUnder Matt Eastwood, JWT’s worldwide chief creative officer, JWT earned a total of 80 Lions at the 2016 Cannes Lions Festival of Creativity, its highest total ever at that point. Of the 80, the company earned two Grand Prix, an Innovation Lion, a Product Design Lion, nine Gold Lions, 23 Silver Lions and 43 Bronze Lions, alongside 122 shortlists. JWT LATAM was also named the Cannes LATAM Network of the Year, and JWT Amsterdam was named the Cannes Innovation Agency of the Year.\n\nIn June 2018, then CEO, Gustavo Martinez officially parted ways with J. Walter Thompson (JWT) and parent company WPP two months after settling a sexual harassment case brought by a female colleague.\n\nIn May 2018 Jo Wallace the creative director of the London branch, who identifies as a gay woman, stated at Creative Equals conference that she would \"obliterate JWT’s reputation as an agency full of white, English, privileged, straight men\". According to a Business Insider article, five straight, white men queried this statement with the company's human resources department and were later fired. The men have reportedly retained a solicitor to consider a case of discrimination.\n\nIn the mid-1970s, J. Walter Thompson was hired by the military dictatorship of Chile, led by Augusto Pinochet, to \"refurbish the image of the regime\" after international and Chilean human-rights organizations had documented extensive violations.\nOther significant clients have included:\n\n"}
{"id": "2234819", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234819", "title": "Jean-Jacques d'Ortous de Mairan", "text": "Jean-Jacques d'Ortous de Mairan\n\nJean-Jacques d'Ortous de Mairan (26 November 1678 – 20 February 1771) was a French geophysicist, astronomer and most notably, chronobiologist, was born in the town of Béziers on 26 November 1678. De Mairan lost his father, François d'Ortous, at age four and his mother twelve years later at age sixteen.\nOver the course of his life, de Mairan was elected into numerous scientific societies and made key discoveries in a variety of fields including ancient texts and astronomy. His observations and experiments also inspired the beginning of what is now known as the study of biological circadian rhythms. At the age of 92, de Mairan died of pneumonia in Paris on 20 February 1771.\n\nDe Mairan attended college in Toulouse from 1694–1697 with a focus in ancient Greek. In 1698 he went to Paris to study mathematics and physics under the teachings of Nicolas Malebranche. In 1702, he returned home to Béziers and began his lifelong study of several fields, most notably astronomy and plant rhythms. Furthermore, during his time in Béziers, he ate almost every day with the Bishop, Louis-Charles des Alris de Rousset. In 1723, de Mairan, who had become a member of the Académie Royale des Sciences, co-founded the Académie de Béziers under the protection of Cardinal de Fleury, acting prime minister of Louis XV (and himself a protégé of a former Bishop of Béziers, Pierre de Bonsi).\nEventually, de Mairan received official lodging in the Louvre where he remained pensionnaire until 1743 and served as secretary from 1741 to 1743. In 1746, he was reinstated as pensionnaire géomètre, or full-time boarding surveyor. It is reported that the Prince of Conti and other great lords heaped extravagant gifts upon him. He was also secretary to the Duke of Orléans.\n\n\nIn 1729, de Mairan performed an experiment that demonstrated the existence of circadian rhythms in plants, specifically the \"Mimosa pudica\".\nHe was intrigued by the daily opening and closing of the heliotrope plant and performed a simple experiment where he exposed the plants to constant darkness and recorded the behaviour. De Mairan's key conclusion was that the daily rhythmic opening and closing of the leaves persisted even in the absence of sunlight. However, de Mairan did not infer that heliotropes have internal clocks driving leaf rhythms, but rather that they were able \"to sense the Sun without ever seeing it\". The concept of an internal clock was actually not formulated until much later, although de Mairan did suggest that \"it would be curious to test [...] whether, using kilns heated to higher or lower temperatures, one could artificially recreate a day & night perceptible to [plants]; and whether in doing so one could reverse the \norder of the phenomena of true day & true night.\"\n\nThese results may have gone unnoticed had his colleague, Marchant, not published them for de Mairan. Alternatively, it may be that de Mairan simply was not available to present this work himself. It was quite common at the time, when travels were slow, for one scientist to present the work of another. Whatever the case, this rather obscure one-page contribution by a prolific and highly respected Academician did stand the test of time. It is by far the most if not the only paper by de Mairan which is still quoted in the current scientific literature (bar purely historical reviews). Indeed, when describing his work with eclosion rhythms in his \"Drosophila\" models or the rhythmic running activity of mice, founder of modern chronobiology, Colin Pittendrigh, recognised the work of Jean-Jacques d'Ortous de Mairan.\n\nA video showing circadian rhythms in a cucumber plant in constant conditions, similar to what de Mairan observed, can be seen .\n\nDespite Marchant's publication of de Mairan's work, which might have suggested the existence of endogenous biological clocks, rhythms in plant movements were for a long time thought to be extrinsically controlled, by light and dark cycles, or magnetic and temperature oscillations, or even a mysterious, yet-to-be identified X-factor.\n\nIn 1823, almost a century after de Mairan's work, the Swiss botanist Augustin Pyramus de Candolle expanded on it by measuring the free running period of \"Mimosa pudica\" leaf movements in constant conditions, finding them to be 22–23 hours long. This was probably the first hint of what is now called the circadian (from Latin \"circa\", about, and \"diem\") nature of such endogenous rhythms, found in practically all living organisms, including some bacteria\n\nIn 1718, de Mairan was inducted into the Académie Royale des Sciences. The Cardinal de Fleury and the Count of Maurepas selected Mairan to replace Bernard le Bovier de Fontenelle as \"Secrétaire perpétuel\" of the Académie in 1740, a position he accepted only for 3 years, and thus duly resigned in 1743. De Mairan also served as the Académie's assistant director and later director intermittently between 1721 and 1760. Eventually, de Mairan was appointed editor of the Journal des sçavans, a science periodical, by Chancellor d'Aguesseau. Also, in 1735, de Mairan was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society and in 1769, a Foreign Member of the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences as well as to the Russian Academy (St. Petersburg) in 1718. De Mairan was also a member of the Royal Societies of London, Edinburgh, and Uppsala and the Institute of Bologna. With Jean Bouillet and Antoine Portalon, he founded his own scientific society in his hometown of Béziers around 1723.\n\nBeyond astronomical and circadian observations, de Mairan actively worked in several other fields of physics including \"heat, light, sound, motion, the shape of the Earth, and the aurora\".\n\nThe following is an abbreviated list of publications (with their English translations) organised by Dr. Robert A. Hatch at the University of Florida:\nHe also published mathematical works.\n\n"}
{"id": "2234822", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234822", "title": "Ambroise-Marie Carré", "text": "Ambroise-Marie Carré\n\nAmbroise-Marie Carré OP (25 July 190815 January 2004) was a Catholic priest, author and member of the Académie française. Born in Fleury-les-Aubrais in Loiret, France, Carré studied at l'école Saint-Joseph and the collège Sainte-Croix de Neuilly before entering the Dominican order in 1926 and being ordained a priest in 1933. Not long thereafter, he was to edit, from 1936 until 1939, the \"Revue des Jeunes\". Under the German Occupation, following the capitulation of the French government to the Nazis during the Second World War, Carré aided those persecuted by the Vichy government, regardless of their religion or ethnicity; for this, he was awarded the \"Légion d'honneur\" and the \"Croix de guerre\".\n\nBoth before and after the war, he preached many sermons and participated in conferences in France and abroad (especially in the Netherlands, Switzerland, Italy, and Belgium). He preached the Lenten sermons many times at Notre Dame de Paris, and in 1964, Paul VI called him to present spiritual exercises at the Vatican. He was elected to the Académie française on 26 June 1975, replacing Jean Cardinal Daniélou, a post he held until his death on 15 January 2004 at Ancourt, in France.\n\n"}
{"id": "2234841", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234841", "title": "Canada's Sports Hall of Fame", "text": "Canada's Sports Hall of Fame\n\nCanada's Sports Hall of Fame (; sometimes referred to as the Canadian Sports Hall of Fame) is a Canadian sports hall of fame and museum in Calgary, Alberta, Canada. Dedicated to the history of sports in Canada, it serves as a hall of fame and museum for accomplished Canadian athletes, and sports builders and officials. \n\nEstablished in 1955, the organization inducted its first class of hall of famers, and opened a museum to the public that year. The museum was originally located at Exhibition Place in Toronto. In 1957, the hall of fame moved to another facility at Exhibition Place, sharing the space with the Hockey Hall of Fame. A new building to house the two hall of fames was later built at Exhibition Place in 1961. The two halls of fame continued to share facilities until 1993, when the Hockey Hall of Fame moved to a different location. Canada's Sports Hall of Fame became the building's sole occupant until it was closed in 2006 to make way for BMO Field. The organization continued to induct honourees to its hall of fame, although a new facility to house its museum was not completed until 2011. The facility was opened at Canada Olympic Park in Calgary, and houses the organization's offices and hall of fame museum.\n\nAs of 2019, there were 673 inductees into Canada's Sports Hall of Fame, categorized either as athletes, or as builders of the sport. Inductees are nominated by the Canadian public, though are ultimately selected by the organization's selection committee. In addition to inductions into its hall of fame, the organization has also conferred awards for accomplishments in sport, and in the larger community.\n\nEfforts to create a national sports hall of fame were spurred by Harry Price, the chairman of the sports committee of the Canadian National Exhibition, who began to travel across Canada in 1947 to gather support for a museum and hall of fame. The hall of fame museum was formally opened on 24 August 1955, at Stanley Barracks in Exhibition Place, Toronto. In 1957, the hall of fame was relocated to the Press Building in Exhibition Place, sharing the facilities with the Hockey Hall of Fame. \n\nAfter the Hockey Hall of Fame announced it would build a new museum and hall of fame building at Exhibition Place in 1958, it extended an invitation to Canada's Sports Hall of Fame to move into its new facility. The Hall of Fame building was officially opened on 1 May 1961, with Canada's Sports Hall of Fame, and the Hockey Hall of Fame as its occupants. Canada's Hall of Fame would share the same building with the Hockey Hall of Fame until 1993, when the Hockey Hall of Fame moved into Brookfield Place in downtown Toronto. The Hockey Hall of Fames' move to downtown Toronto led to a decline in attendance, and in the late 1990s, plans were made to move the hall of fame to Ottawa. However, the federal government cancelled those plans in 1999. \n\nCanada's Sports Hall of Fame closed its museum to the public in 2006, with the building demolished to make way for BMO Field. The organization placed its collections in storage at Stanley Barracks, until a new facility to house the museum was completed. In 2008, the hall of fame's board of governors announced a national bid for a new permanent location for the museum. Nine cities submitted bids to host the museum, although the city of Calgary was eventually selected. Constructed at Canada Olympic Park, funding was provided by the federal government, provincial, and municipal government; in addition to private funds. The federal government contributed C$15 million to the construction budget, whereas the provincial government contributed C$10 million, and the municipal government contributing C$5 million. Canada's Sports Hall of Fame was tasked with raising an additional C$20 million to help pay operational expenses. The building opened to the public on 1 July 2011.\n\nIn 2019, the hall of fame introduced the People's Choice Award, to recognize an individual sport champion who also contributes to charities and local communities. The inaugural winner of the award was champion golfer and 9-time winner on the LPGA Tour, Brooke Henderson. In the same year, the organization also introduced the Order of Sport Award, which served as a physical award for being inductee to the hall of fame.\n\nThe hall of fame and museum building is located Canada Olympic Road, at Canada Olympic Park, a ski hill and multi-purpose training and competition facility in Calgary. The museum was formerly located at Exhibition Place in Toronto, before it relocated to a new permanent facility in Calgary.\n\nCompleted in 2011, Canada's Hall of Fame building was designed by Stantec, on behalf of CANA Construction, the project manager and design-lead for the museum. The exterior facade with its cantilevered structure, was designed to mimic the elevated platforms where athletes receive their medals. The building colour of red and white was taken from the colours of the flag of Canada. The structure was designed to be a sustainable building, and received LEED Silver certification. \n\nThe interior of the building is made of three components, the museum and exhibition halls, the organization's office space, and storage space for the museum's collections. All components of the building is connected through a two-and-a-half storey atrium. \n\nThe museum and exhibit hall was purposely designed on the upper level of the building, with the upper level having more floor area than the floor below it. The museum space takes up approximately of the building's floor space. The upper level is perched on the glass and steel structure, and cantilevers above the lower floor, creating the illusion that the upper level was floating. The cantilevered area also holds exhibits on individual sports. \n\nThe museum space features twelve galleries, a theatre, and interactive exhibits on the hall of fame's inductees, and Canadian sport. The museum's twelve themed galleries located on various levels, are separated by a \"series of bays\". The exhibits are designed to circulate around the museum's central atrium or the \"Grand Hall,\" which houses six national trophy exhibits. The design of the museum exhibits was done by Cambridge Seven Associates. \n\nThe museum's collections includes over 60,000 photographs, and 100,000 artifacts.\n\nAs of November 2019, Canada's Sports Hall of Fame had over 670 inductees, categorized either as athletes or builders of the sport. Beginning with the induction of the 2019 class of hall of famers, Canada's Sports Hall of Fame began to issue the Order of Sport award to inductees, as a physical token of their induction into the hall of fame. Hall of famers that were inducted prior to 2019 were all retroactively made \"peers\" of the order, upon its creation.\n\nNominations for inductees are accepted from the Canadian public throughout the year. Athletes nominated are required to have been retired for at least four years, although builders may be nominated when they are still active in their careers. Animals and inanimate objects may be considered for induction, although their nomination requires the approval of the Hall's Board of Governors. \n\nA new group of inductees has been introduced into Canada's Hall of Fame annually since its inception in 1955. The annual election of nominees is chosen through a selection committee of ten to 16 people.\n\nOn June 17, 2015, the Hall of Fame introduced the Sport Legends class of inductees, made up of athletes whose careers occurred before 1955. The creation of the Sport Legend class was undertaken in commemoration of the 150th anniversary of Canada.\n\nAthletes\n\nBuilders\n\n"}
{"id": "2234842", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234842", "title": "Simon Jeffery", "text": "Simon Jeffery\n\nSimon Jeffery is the chief publishing officer of ngmoco's Plus+ Publishing group.\n\nSimilar to EA Publishing Partners group, Plus+ Publishing is a combined technology, App Store publishing and custom support play for iPhone and iPod touch developers. It will launch its first products with the rollout of the 3.0 operating system for those devices. Prior to this, Jeffery was the president of Sega of America from 2004 to 2009. He was president of LucasArts between 2000 and 2003, and a director at the company for three years beforehand. Prior to joining LucasArts, Jeffery worked in a number of marketing, business and development roles for Virgin Interactive and Electronic Arts.\n\nAt Sega, Jeffery plans to recruit Western development houses to work with Japanese Sega IP and strengthening Sega's game production in the West in general. At E3 2008 Jeffery told Sega fans there is not going to be a new console from Sega, and no current plans to develop a Shenmue 3. This kills off hope of a Dreamcast 2 and downheartens many Sega fans who still believed it would happen.\n\nJeffery's main accomplishment during his tenure at LucasArts was forging new relations with external developers to fully develop the Star Wars gaming IP, such as Pandemic Studios, Planet Moon Studios, The Collective, Raven Software and BioWare. Several of LucasArts' most revered and successful Star Wars games were launched during this period, including \"\", \"\", \"\", and \"\".\n\nHowever, his goal of turning around a creative original IP slump at the company was never fully realized. According to Jeffery, LucasArts had too heavily relied on its \"Star Wars\" license, but successful new IP failed to materialize. Games such as \"Gladius\" and \"RTX Red Rock\" did not achieve critical acclaim or great sales; follow-ups to classic LucasArts adventure games, \"Full Throttle: Hell on Wheels\" and \"\" were cancelled, to much dismay of the fans. (An online petition to save \"Freelance Police\" got over 31000 signatures.)\n\nSimon Jeffery later became the subject of several fan animations in the LucasArts fan community, often depicted as a Jesus-like figure. Jeffery is a big \"Star Wars\" fan and once claimed to have seen \"A New Hope\" 93 times.\n"}
{"id": "2234844", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234844", "title": "Odds and evens (hand game)", "text": "Odds and evens (hand game)\n\nOdds and evens is a simple game of chance and hand game, involving two people simultaneously revealing a number of fingers and winning or losing depending on whether they are odd or even, or alternatively involving one person taking picking up coins or other small objects and hiding them in their closed hand, while another player guesses whether they have an odd or even number. The game may be used to make a decision or played for fun.\n\nThe finger game is also known as swords, choosies, pick, odds-on poke, or bucking up. This zero-sum game, a variation of the ancient morra and \"par-impar\", is played in Europe and the US, especially among children.\n\nThis game was known by the Greeks (as \"artiazein\") and Romans (as \"ludere par impar\"). In the 1858 Krünitzlexikon it says:\n\"\"The game Odds and Evens was very common amongst the Romans and was played either with tali, tesseris, or money and known as \"Alea maior\", or with nuts, beans and almonds and known as \"Alea minor\".\"\" \n\nA medieval reference is found in the \"Renner\" by Hugo von Trimberg (verse 2695).\n\nOdds and Evens (\"Gerade und Ungerade\") is included in the list of games prohibited in Austria-Hungary in 1904 by the Ministry of Justice.\n\nThe game has similarities with the finger game of Morra or \"Fingerlosere one person hides their hand and then quickly folds or extends one's fingers and the other player has to guess how many fingers are folded or extended. \n\nIn Odds and Evens, however, individuals prepare by deciding who will be assigned odds and who will be evens. Then, one or both people say \"One, two, three, shoot!\" or \"once, twice, three, shoot!\" As the word \"shoot\" is said, the two people quickly and simultaneously thrust a fist into the center, extending either an index finger, or both the middle and index finger, indicating \"one\" or \"two\". The sum total of fingers displayed is either odd or even. If the result is odd, then the person who called odds is the victor, and can decide the issue as he or she sees fit. Often, the participants continue to \"shoot\" for a best two out of three\".\n\nFrom a game-theoretic perspective, the game is equivalent to matching pennies. See that article for analysis of the strategies and chances of winning.\n\nThe name Even-Odd or EO (\"Gerade und Ungerade\") was even given to a predecessor of roulette in the 18th century. This continues today in modern roulette in the bets on \"Pair\" and \"Impair\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2234846", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234846", "title": "Leonid Nevzlin", "text": "Leonid Nevzlin\n\nLeonid Borisovich Nevzlin (; , born 21 September 1959) is a Russian-born Israeli businessman, investor, and philanthropist.\n\nNevzlin occupied various high-ranking positions at Group Menatep and its subsidiary, the Yukos Oil Company. In 2003, the Russian state expropriated Yukos and began a campaign of persecution against its executives. Nevzlin was tried in absentia in Russia in March 2008, found guilty of several counts of conspiracy to murder and sentenced to life imprisonment. In 2014, the Permanent Court of Arbitration ruled in favor of Nevzlin and other Yukos shareholders, calling the actions of the Russian state “a ruthless campaign to destroy Yukos and to expropriate its assets\".\n\nFrom 1981-87, Nevzlin was a software engineer at Zarubezhgeologia, an external trade organization of the Soviet Ministry of Geology. In 1987, he met Mikhail Khodorkovsky and became a Deputy Director at the Center for Scientific and Technical Creativity for Youth (MENATEP), attached to the Komsomol committee in Moscow's Frunzensky District.\n\nMENATEP established one of the first private banks in Russia, Bank Menatep. From 1989 to 1991, Nevzlin served as president of the bank, after which he held other high-ranking positions, including Vice Chairman of the Board (1993-1996) and Head of Public Relations (1994-1996). Nevzlin also worked at Group Menatep, focusing on corporate communications, government relations, and human resources. In April 1996 he became Vice President of Yukos, in which Menatep had acquired a 78% share in December 1995.\n\nFrom September 1997 to October 1998, Nevzlin served as first deputy director general of the Russian news agency ITAR TASS, creating a plan to gradually transform it into a joint-stock company. In April 1998 Nevzlin became First Vice Chairman of Bank Menatep. In 1999 he became First Vice Chairman of the board of directors of Yukos. From November 2001 to March 2003, he represented the Republic of Mordovia as a senator in the Federation Council of Russia. From June to November 2003, he served as the Rector of the Russian State University for the Humanities. In 2003 and 2004, Nevzlin was featured on Forbes magazine's list of the world’s 100 wealthiest people. In 2010 his wealth was estimated at US$1.3 billion.\n\nNevzlin is a co-owner and board member of Haaretz, one of Israel’s liberal newspaper publishers, having purchased a 20% stake in the company in 2011 for 140 million shekels. Members of the Schocken family, descendants of the newspaper’s founders, retain a 60 percent stake in the company. In 2014, Nevzlin founded the monthly Hebrew-language magazine “Liberal,” which publishes analyses of Israeli political life, communications and culture. The inaugural issue appeared in May 2014.\n\nIn 2003, following prolonged clashes with the Kremlin, Yukos’ controlling shareholder, Mikhail Khodorkovsky, and another senior executive, Platon Lebedev, were arrested on charges of fraud and tax evasion. Both were convicted in 2005 following trials that were widely condemned internationally as procedurally flawed and politically motivated. Khodorkovsky was found guilty and the sentence for tax evasion and fraud was upheld by the European Court of Human Rights for the same affair. Yukos’ assets were subsequently awarded to state-owned companies in a series of forced auctions. Yukos was declared bankrupt in August 2006.\n\nNevzlin left Russia for Israel in 2003. In 2004 the Russian Prosecutor General's Office sought Nevzlin’s extradition over hotly disputed criminal allegations against him related to his tenure at Yukos. The Israeli government rejected the extradition request due to insufficient evidence. Two members of the public who felt aggrieved by the government’s decision sued to have it reversed. They also petitioned the interior minister to revoke Nevzlin’s Israeli citizenship on the grounds that it was obtained under false pretenses. Nevzlin’s attorney, David Libai, argued that the charges against him were the result of political persecution. A spokesman for Nevzlin stated in reaction to extradition request, \"Amnesty International, the European Parliament, and the court in the UK, are only some of the bodies that have found that Russian president Vladimir Putin is persecuting Mikhail Khodorovsky, Leonid Nevzlin, and the other shareholders in Yukos, who dared to support democratic opposition parties and openly come out against him. Putin does not hesitate to make use of the Russian authorities that are subordinate to him to create false charges - in the best tradition of the KGB, in which Putin grew up.\"\n\nIn May 2008 Israel’s Supreme Court found there was no evidence directly connecting Nevzlin to the criminal allegations made against him. The court rejected extradition and denied the motion to strip Nevzlin of his citizenship. Israel's interior minister and attorney general were ordered to pay Nevzlin’s court costs for this case. Nevzlin was tried in absentia in Russia in March 2008, found guilty of several counts of conspiracy to murder and sentenced to life imprisonment. Nevzlin called the court case a show trial orchestrated by Vladimir Putin.\n\nIn 2014, the Permanent Court of Arbitration in The Hague, despite the Russian Duma having never ratified the treaty under which this judgment has been made therefore making a non-legally binding judgment, ruled unanimously that the Russian authorities had conducted a “ruthless campaign to destroy Yukos, appropriate its assets and eliminate Mr. [Mikhail] Khodorkovsky as a political opponent.” According to the panel, the forced auction of core parts of the company through contested bankruptcy proceedings “was not driven by motives of tax collection but by the desire of the State to acquire Yukos’ most valuable asset and bankrupt Yukos…. In short, it was in effect a devious and calculated expropriation.” \n\nThe former Yukos shareholders were awarded damages totaling $50 billion – the largest arbitration award in history. As the biggest shareholder of GML, the former Yukos holding company that brought the legal case, with a 70 per cent stake, Nevzlin stands to be the biggest single beneficiary from The Hague’s ruling. The Russian government failed to meet the deadline of January 15, 2015, for paying that award. Earlier news reports indicated that the former Yukos investors would seek redress by asking U.S. and EU courts to seize Russian-owned assets on their territory.\n\nNevzlin was awarded the Order of Friendship, one of the Russian Federation’s highest honors, for his efforts in supporting Boris Yeltsin’s reelection campaign in 1996.\n\nFrom March to December 2001 Nevzlin served as president of the Russian Jewish Congress. He was a key player in Jewish historical and heritage research projects, including the establishment of the Moscow Jewish Cultural Center and the International Center for Russian and Eastern European Jewish Studies in Moscow. Moreover, Nevzlin contributed to numerous other Jewish educational programs developed in collaboration with World ORT, the Jewish Agency for Israel and the American Jewish Joint Distribution Committee.\n\nSince moving to Israel, Nevzlin has established the NADAV Foundation, which supports projects in Jewish studies and education, Israel-Diaspora relations and Jewish peoplehood. Its annual “NADAV Peoplehood Prize” has been awarded to such figures as author Elie Wiesel, retired Israeli Supreme Court Chief Justice Aharon Barak, and, most recently, Rabbi David Stav, an Israeli Orthodox rabbi.\n\nNevzlin created the Leonid Nevzlin Research Center for Russian and Eastern European Jewry at Jerusalem’s Hebrew University. He has also served on the boards of both the Hebrew University of Jerusalem and Tel Aviv University.\n\nIn collaboration with the Israeli government, Nevzlin created a relief fund in 2004 to revive Beit Hatfutsot – the Museum of the Jewish People, located on the campus of Tel Aviv University, and was elected Chairman of its International Board of Governors. The NADAV Foundation launched the International School for Jewish Peoplehood Studies at Beit Hatfutsot in 2006, and the Nevzlin Center for Jewish Peoplehood at the Interdisciplinary Center (IDC) Herzliya in 2010.\n\nNevzlin has served on the Board of Governors of the Jewish Agency for Israel and the Board of Trustees of Keren Hayesod, the United Israel Appeal, and as Associate Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Jewish People Policy Planning Institute.\n\nNevzlin is also a long-term supporter of Israeli healthcare charity Ezra Lemarpeh.\n\nNevzlin was born in Moscow on 21 September 1959 into a family of Belarusian-Jewish origin. He graduated from the Gubkin Russian State University of Oil and Gas in 1981, and earned an MA from the Plekhanov Russian University of Economics, majoring in management and marketing. Nevzlin has married three times and has five children including Irina Nevzlin, chair of the board of Directors at Beit Hatfutsot. Through Irina, he is the father in law of Israeli politician Yuli-Yoel Edelstein.\n\nIn 2014, Nevzlin acquired an apartment in the new, upscale Waldorf-Astoria hotel/apartment complex in the center of Jerusalem at a cost of 40 million shekels (approximately US$11.5 million).\n\nNevzlin is the author of the two books “Человек с рублем” (“Man with a Ruble,” coauthored with Mikhail Khodorkovsky), in praise of free-market economics, and “Public Relations – кому это надо?” (“Public Relations – Who Needs Them?”).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2234848", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234848", "title": "Markham—Stouffville", "text": "Markham—Stouffville\n\nMarkham—Stouffville is a federal electoral district in Ontario, Canada. It encompasses a portion of Ontario previously included in the electoral districts of Markham—Unionville and Oak Ridges—Markham.\n\nMarkham—Stouffville was created by the 2012 federal electoral boundaries redistribution and was legally defined in the 2013 representation order. It came into effect upon the dropping of the writs for the 2015 federal election. Helena Jaczek has represented the riding since the 2019 federal election.\n\nThe territory of the riding (map) consists of part of the Regional Municipality of York: (a) the Town of Whitchurch-Stouffville; and (b) the part of the City of Markham lying easterly of a line described as follows: commencing at the intersection of the northerly limit of Markham with Highway 48; then southerly along Highway 48 to 16th Avenue; then westerly to McCowan Road; then southerly to Highway 407; then easterly along Highway 407 to the Rouge River; then generally southeasterly along Rouge River to the southerly limit of Markham. The riding's population is estimated at 109,780.\n\nEthnic groups: 16.4% Chinese, 15.3% South Asian, 3.8% Black, 3.7% Filipino\nOther languages: 12.9% Chinese, 3.9% Tamil, 2.5% Italian, 1.8% Tagalog, 1.6% Urdu, 1.4% French, 1.1% Greek, 1.0% Gujarati\n\n\nThis riding has elected the following Members of Parliament:\n"}
{"id": "2234851", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234851", "title": "List of University of Pennsylvania people", "text": "List of University of Pennsylvania people\n\nThis is a partial list of notable faculty, alumni and scholars of the University of Pennsylvania in Philadelphia, United States.\n\n\nFor a more comprehensive list of notable alumni in the business world, see Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania. (Note: Not all of the following individuals attended the Wharton School, but may be alumni of other schools within the University of Pennsylvania).\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2234859", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234859", "title": "1878–79 in English football", "text": "1878–79 in English football\n\nThe 1878–1879 season was the eighth season of competitive football in England.\n\nFor the first time, England played a team other than Scotland. England played both Scotland and Wales at Kennington Oval, London, beating Wales 2–1. This match was played in atrocious weather conditions with the team captains agreeing to play only 30 minutes in each half. England gained revenge on Scotland for the previous year's debacle by beating them 5–4.\n\nNote – TheFa.com credits England's 4th (equalising) goal against Scotland as an own goal by the Scottish goalkeeper, Robert Parlane.\n\n"}
{"id": "2234864", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234864", "title": "Stack-o-Tracks", "text": "Stack-o-Tracks\n\nStack-o-Tracks is an album release by The Beach Boys containing backing tracks to fifteen of their songs spanning their career to that point. As it was issued during one of their lowest commercial ebbs in the U.S., \"Stack-o-Tracks\" became the first Beach Boys album to fail to reach the US or UK charts. Until 1992's \"Summer in Paradise\", it would remain their only official release to have this distinction.\n\nThe album included a booklet with the bass lines, lead lines, chords and lyrics (to sing along with). \"Stack-o-Tracks\" quickly disappeared and was out of print for two decades. In 1990, Capitol Records re-issued it on CD, and again in 2001 - both releases without the booklet that accompanied the vinyl edition.\n\nAll songs by Brian Wilson/Mike Love, except where noted.\n\nSide one\n\n\nSide two\n\n\n1990 bonus tracks\n\nIn 1990, \"Stack-o-Tracks\" was paired on CD with \"Beach Boys' Party!\", with bonus instrumental tracks. While \"Stack-o-Tracks\" was originally available only in mono or Duophonic sound, the CD includes true stereo mixes of several tracks.\n\n"}
{"id": "2234868", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234868", "title": "Villa miseria", "text": "Villa miseria\n\nA villa miseria (), or just \"villa\", is a type of shanty town or slum found in Argentina, mostly around the largest urban settlements.\n\nThe term is a noun phrase made up of the Spanish words \"villa\" (\"village\", \"small town\") and \"miseria\" (\"misery\", \"dejection\"), and was adopted from Bernardo Verbitsky's 1957 novel \"Villa Miseria también es América\" (\"Villa Miseria is also [a part of] the Americas\").\n\nThese shantytowns are euphemistically called \"asentamientos\" (\"settlements\") or \"villas de emergencia\" (\"emergency villages\"). In most parts of Argentina, the non-modified word \"villa\" usually refers to a \"villa miseria\".\n\nThese settlements consist of small houses or shacks made of tin, wood and other scrap material. Generally, the streets are not paved and narrow internal passages connect the different parts. The villas miseria have no sanitation system, though there may be water pipes passing through the settlement. Electric power is sometimes taken directly from the grid using illegal connections, which are accepted by suppliers.\n\nThe villas range from small groups of precarious houses to larger, more organized communities with thousands of residents. In rural areas, the houses in the \"villas miserias\" might be made of mud and wood. Villas miseria are found around and inside the large cities of Buenos Aires, Rosario, Córdoba and Mendoza, among others. The villas draw people from several backgrounds. Some are local citizens who have fallen from an already precarious economic position. In most cases, a villa miseria is populated by the children and grandchildren of the original settlers, who have been unable to improve their economic status.\n\nAccording to July 2004 estimates, there were about 640 \"precarious neighborhoods\" in suburban Buenos Aires, comprising 690,000 residents and 111,000 households. The population of the villas miseria in the city of Buenos Aires doubled during the 1990s, reaching about 120,000 as of 2005.\n\nBy 2011, there were over 500,000 people living in more than 800 informal settlements around the periphery of Buenos Aires. Research from an NGO called 'A roof for my country' (UTPMP) found that of these settlements, 66% had been founded in the last fifteen years and 65% were still growing. Most slums (85%) had no sewage facilities and a similar percentage had no access to gas.\n\nThe Government's statistics agency (INDEC) announced in 2016 that 8.8 million people, or 32.2% of the population, was living in poverty. This was a dramatic leap in numbers from the 4.7% people living in poverty just three years before.\n\nThe non-profit TECHO estimated there more than 1,000 informal settlements in greater Buenos Aires in 2015. It stated that only 10% of villas had access to running water and 5% to sewage infrastructure.\n\nAttempting to address the housing problem, \"de facto\" President Alejandro Lanusse established the National Housing Fund (FONAVI) in 1972. An amalgam of long-standing national housing programs and lending facilities previously managed by the National Mortgage Bank, the FONAVI helped coordinate slum clearance efforts and, since then, has put up over 25,000 housing units a year (both single-family and multi-family types).\n\nGranting deeds on a lease-to-own basis, the fund mostly provides for households in Argentina's lowest income bracket and, thus, has historically had a collection rate of less than five per cent. The fund, one of the most important in Latin America, is largely underwritten by national fuel and other excise taxes.\n\nThe military junta which ruled Argentina between 1974 and 1983 in the Dirty War attempted to destroy the informal slums by forcibly resettling people, which only succeeded in moving the villas miseria to new locations.\n\nMore recently, Mayor of Buenos Aires Horacio Rodriguez Larreta intends to regularize all the informal settlements by 2023.\n\nVilla 1-11-14 is an informal settlement in the Flores area of Buenos Aires of about 70,000 people. The average age is 24 years, compared to 40 elsewhere in the city. Some streets are controlled by drug-dealing gangs.\n\nVilla 31 is a large villa miseria in Buenos Aires, close to Retiro railway station.\n\nIt dates from the 1930s and in 2017 had around 40,000 inhabitants. The city council plans to renovate the area by 2020, by improving housing, offering the opportunity for people to become home owners and connecting electricity, water and sewage facilities. The $320 million plan, financed by the World Bank and the Inter-American Development Bank, aimed to resettle squatters into 1,350 new homes. At least 30% of the residents were concerned that they would not be rehoused.\n\n\"Mundo Villa\" is a TV station, a radio channel (Mundo Sur), a magazine issued monthly and a website. It is an independent media project which aims to provide villa miseria inhabitants with a voice and also to supply them with quality news. Adam Ledezma, a community activist from Villa 31, was keen to have a local newspaper and helped the project with villa-based journalism until he was murdered in 2010.\n\nInspired by \"Mundo Villa\", another new magazine \"La Garganta Poderosa\" ('The Mighty Throat') was set up in 2011.\n\nArgentinian painter Antonio Berni dealt with the hardships of living in a villa miseria through his series \"Juanito Laguna\", a slum child, and \"Ramona Montiel\", a prostitute.\n\nCésar Aira published his novel \"La Villa\" in 2001 (released in English translation in 2013 as \"Shantytown\"). In it he examines the invisibility of slumdwellers.\n\nThe Argentinian writer Hugo Pezzini comments on the book: \"The apparent absurdity of César Aira's novel La Villa provides an instance of resourceful mediation to semantically reorganize a situation of emergency and locate it within its particular rationale. In Argentina, a slum is popularly called 'villa miseria,' or simply 'la villa.' In politically correct language, that is, officially, is called 'villa de emergencia.'”\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2234878", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234878", "title": "GWR 2600 Class", "text": "GWR 2600 Class\n\nThe Great Western Railway (GWR) 2600 Class or Aberdare Class was a class of 2-6-0 steam locomotive built between 1900 and 1907. They were a freight version of the 3300 and 4120 classes, both 4-4-0 locomotives. Therefore they were adapted and became 2-6-0 engines and were used for hauling coal trains between Aberdare and Swindon.\n\nThe class began in 1900 with a prototype, No. 33, renumbered 2600 in 1912. The rest were numbered 2601-2680 and were built between 1901 and 1907. \n\nBritish Railways (BR) inherited nos. 2612/20/3/43/51/5/6/62/5/7/9/80 in 1948. By 31 August 1948, only four were left: nos. 2620, 2651, 2655, 2667.\n\nThey were withdrawn from 1934 onwards. 5 Aberdares (2640, 2648, 2649, 2652 & 2657) withdrawn in early 1939 were not cut up but stored as Second World War reserves. These five reentered service by January 1940. Their withdrawal began again in 1944 until the last member, number 2667, was withdrawn in October 1949. None of the Aberdare class engines were preserved.\n\n"}
{"id": "2234889", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234889", "title": "Act 250 (Vermont law)", "text": "Act 250 (Vermont law)\n\nAct 250, Vermont's Land Use and Development Act, is a law passed in 1970 by the Vermont legislature designed to mitigate the effects of development through an application process that addresses the environmental and community impacts of projects that exceed a threshold in size.\n\nDevelopment pressures resulting from the opening of two interstate highways (I-89 and I-91) made access to the state much easier for year-round visitors, creating community concerns including road congestion, increased environmental problems, burden on local services, and rising taxes. Governor Deane C. Davis appointed a study commission in 1969 to develop a statewide law to address these concerns, as no environmental regulations or land use controls existed. A major contributor to the construction of the law was Laura G. Wheeler, in consultation with then Vermont Attorney General James Jeffords.\n\nThe law created nine District Environmental Commissions to review large-scale development projects using 10 criteria that are designed to safeguard the environment, community life, and aesthetic character of the state. They have the power to issue or deny a permit to real estate developers for any project that encompasses more than 10 acres (40,000 m), or more than one acre (4,000 m) for towns that do not have permanent zoning and subdivision bylaws. The law also applies to any development project with more than 10 housing units or housing lots; and may also apply for construction proposed above of elevation. Act 250 also created the Vermont Environmental Board to review appeals coming from District Commission rulings.\n\nThe district commissions are:\n\n\nThe 10 Criteria are as follows:\n\nThe 10 criteria have changed little since the adoption of Act 250 in 1970. Efforts have been made over the years to make the permitting process work more efficiently, along with performance standards. Today, the District Commissions receive between 600 and 800 applications per year, and hold hearings on an average of 20% of these. They have an approval record of 98%, but this rate includes plans modified during the hearing process, with conditions typically attached to permits when granted.\n\nAct 250 jurisdiction attaches forever to permits, except to permits for quarries and logging at elevations over . These permits are allowed to close when the work required to complete them is complete. There is not sufficient funding to support personnel to verify proper completion of the required activity, so the Act 250 office must rely on the permit applicant to truthfully verify completion.\n\nAct 250 creators included Laura G. Wheeler of Barre Town, Vermont; then Attorney General James Jeffords, Howard Rusk of New York; Jeanne Garvin of Montpelier, Vermont; and Lawrence Gurnette of Michigan.\nThe intent of the Act was to create a more esthetic Vermont by protecting rivers, air, the forest's ability to support wildlife, and to preserve Vermont's natural resources. One concern was forest conservation, and the prevention of excessive clear cutting.\n\nThe law has been controversial since its implementation. It is often costly to implement restrictions placed on commercial projects. \n\nIn his 2002 gubernatorial campaign, Governor Jim Douglas ran on a platform that included restructuring Act 250.\n\nIn 1993, Vermont was designated one of America's most \"Endangered Historic Places\" by the National Trust for Historic Preservation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2234894", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234894", "title": "1879–80 in English football", "text": "1879–80 in English football\n\nThe 1879–1880 season was the ninth season of competitive football in England.\n\n<nowiki>*</nowiki> England score given first\n\nNote – TheFa.com gives different times for the England goals in the match against Wales.\n\n"}
{"id": "2234896", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234896", "title": "Yazdegerd", "text": "Yazdegerd\n\nYazdegerd, Yazdgerd, Yazdigird, or Yazdagird (Inscriptional <yzdkrty> or <yzdklty> \"Yazdgird\", \"Yazdkirt\"; \"Yazdgerd\"; \"Yazdijird\") may refer to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2234898", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234898", "title": "Algernon Percy, 6th Duke of Northumberland", "text": "Algernon Percy, 6th Duke of Northumberland\n\nAlgernon George Percy, 6th Duke of Northumberland, (20 May 1810 – 2 January 1899), styled Lord Lovaine between 1830 and 1865 and Earl Percy between 1865 and 1867, was a British Conservative politician. He held office under the Earl of Derby as Paymaster-General and Vice-President of the Board of Trade in 1859 and under Benjamin Disraeli as Lord Privy Seal between 1878 and 1880.\n\nNorthumberland was the eldest son of George Percy, Lord Lovaine, eldest son of Algernon Percy, 1st Earl of Beverley, a younger son of Hugh Percy, 1st Duke of Northumberland. From his father's succession as second Earl of Beverley in 1830, Percy was styled Lord Lovaine. In 1865, Lord Beverley inherited the dukedom of Northumberland from his first cousin, Algernon Percy, 4th Duke of Northumberland, and thenceforth Lovaine was styled Earl Percy. His mother was Louisa, daughter of the Hon. James Stuart-Wortley-Mackenzie, second son of Prime Minister John Stuart, 3rd Earl of Bute.\n\nLord Josceline Percy and Lieutenant-General Lord Henry Percy were his younger brothers.\n\nNorthumberland sat in the House of Commons as Member of Parliament for Bere Alston between 1831 and 1832 and for Northumberland North between 1852 and 1865. He served Civil Lord of the Admiralty between 1858 and 1859 and as Paymaster-General and Vice-President of the Board of Trade in 1859 in Lord Derby's second government. The latter year he was also sworn of the Privy Council.\n\nIn 1867 he succeeded in the dukedom on the death of his father and entered the House of Lords. He joined the Earl of Beaconsfield's second government as Lord Privy Seal in 1878, with a seat in the cabinet, a post he held until the fall of the government in 1880.\n\nNorthumberland was also Lord Lieutenant of Northumberland between 1877 and 1899. He was made a Knight of the Garter in 1886.\n\nNorthumberland married Louisa, daughter of Henry Drummond, in 1845. She died in December 1890. Northumberland survived her by nine years and died in January 1899, aged 88. The Duke and his wife were buried in the Percy family vault in Westminster Abbey. He was succeeded in the dukedom by his eldest son, Henry, Earl Percy. Northumberland's second son Lord Algernon Percy was also a politician.\n\nAt the Percy seat Alnwick Castle, Northumberland, he enlisted Anthony Salvin to do considerable interior works in the neo-Gothic style, and purchased the collection of paintings amassed by the Roman painter Vincenzo Camuccini, to add to the pictures at Alnwick, swelled by the collection formerly at Northumberland House, The Strand, London, which was demolished in 1874.\n\n"}
{"id": "2234900", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234900", "title": "Sir Charles Seely, 2nd Baronet", "text": "Sir Charles Seely, 2nd Baronet\n\nSir Charles Hilton Seely, 2nd Baronet, VD, KGStJ (7 July 1859 – 26 February 1926) was a British industrialist, landowner and Liberal Unionist (later Liberal Party) politician who served as Member of Parliament (MP) for Lincoln from 1895 to 1906 and for Mansfield from 1916 to 1918. He was a Justice of the Peace for Hampshire and Nottinghamshire and the Deputy Lieutenant for Nottinghamshire. He was also a Knight of Grace of the Order of St John.\n\nSeely was born in Mansfield, Nottinghamshire, the eldest son of Sir Charles Seely, 1st Baronet (1833–1915), an industrialist and major land-owner in both Nottinghamshire and the Isle of Wight. He was educated at Harrow School and Trinity College, Cambridge, and inherited the family estates at Sherwood Lodge in Nottinghamshire, and Gatcombe in the Isle of Wight.\n\nSeely was a Liberal Unionist for the early part of his political career. He first stood for election to Parliament at the 1886 general election, when he unsuccessfully contested Mid Derbyshire. He stood for Rushcliffe at the 1892 election without success, but won a seat in Lincoln at the 1895 election, which his grandfather Charles Seely had represented until 1885 as a Liberal. He was re-elected again in 1900 with Conservative backing. However, in February 1904 he lost the backing of the local Conservative and Liberal Unionist Association over his support for free trade. The Conservatives adopted Henry Page Croft as their candidate in place of Seely, who stood in the 1906 general election as a Free Trade candidate.\n\nDespite this setback, he again stood for Lincoln in the General Election of January 1910 as a Liberal Unionist in support of Free Trade and was again opposed by a Liberal and a Conservative. This time he finished in third place and did not stand for Parliament again for another six years. He instead served as High Sheriff of Nottinghamshire for 1912.\n\nHe was the successful Liberal Party candidate at a by-election in September 1916 in the Mansfield division of Nottinghamshire. At the 1918 general election, after boundary changes, he stood in the new Broxtowe division of Nottinghamshire, but the seat was won with a large majority by the Labour Party candidate. Seely did not stand for Parliament again.\n\nSeely was a lieutenant-colonel in the 5th (Isle of Wight, \"Princess Beatrice′s\") Volunteer Battalion, Hampshire Regiment, and was awarded the Volunteer Officers' Decoration (VD) on 15 August 1902.\n\nSeely was a member of a family of politicians, industrialists and significant landowners. His grandfather Charles Seely (1803–1887), father Sir Charles Seely, 1st Baronet, younger brother John Edward Bernard Seely, 1st Baron Mottistone, and son Sir Hugh Seely, 3rd Baronet and 1st Baron Sherwood were all Members of Parliament. His uncle was the civil engineer, businessman and politician Sir Francis Evans, 1st Baronet.\n\nSeely married Hilda Lucy (née Grant), granddaughter of the notable inventor Sir Thomas Tassell Grant KCB, FRS, in 1891, and they had six children:\n\nSir Charles died in Basford aged 66.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2234919", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234919", "title": "Yenish language", "text": "Yenish language\n\nYenish (French: \"Yeniche\", German: \"Jenisch\"), is a variety of German spoken by the Yenish people, former nomads living mostly in Germany, Austria, Switzerland, Alsace and other parts of France.\n\nYenish has been documented since the 18th century. It is a jargon rather than an actual language; it consists of a significant number of unique specialized words, but does not have its own grammar or its own basic vocabulary. Yenish speakers generally speak their local German dialect, enriched by the Yeniche vocabulary, which is derived in part from Rotwelsch, with influences from Yiddish, Romani, and other minority languages of the region.\n\nThe Yenish vocabulary contains many words of Romani and Yiddish (and through this route, Hebrew) origin; it also has many unusual metaphors and metonomies that replace the standard German words. The relationship between Yenish and standard German is comparable to the relationship between Cockney or Polari and standard English. Some original Yeniche words have become parts of standard German.\n\nThe Yenish were originally travelers, i.e. people with professions outside of mainstream society that required them to move from town to town, such as showpeople, tinkers, and door-to-door salesmen. Today, the Yenish jargon is only used in certain isolated locations, such as certain poor districts of Berlin, Münster, some Eifel villages, and Luxembourg.\n\nIndividual variants of the Yenish language can be quite distinct, and have names of their own, such as Masematte, Lepper Talp, Heenese Vlek, and others.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2234920", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234920", "title": "GWR 6400 Class", "text": "GWR 6400 Class\n\nThe Great Western Railway (GWR) 6400 Class is a class of 0-6-0 pannier tank steam locomotive introduced by Charles Collett in 1932. All 40 examples were 'auto-fitted' – equipped with the remote-control equipment needed for working autotrains.\n\nThe 1936 GWR 7400 Class was a similar class, without the autotrain apparatus, but with a higher boiler pressure of 180 psi, providing a small but useful increase in power. An initial build of 30 in 1936-1937 was added to by British Railways in two batches each of ten locos in 1948 and 1950. These were destined for a short life, the briefest being only nine years. A minor visual difference between the 54xx and earlier 64xx, and the later series of 64xx, with the 74xx classes was at the join between cab and bunker. The 54xx and early 64xx had an arc whereas the later 64xx and the 74xx class was straight. The early locos also had a lip at the leading edge of the cab roof, whereas the later locos had a plain corner edge. \n\nBoth classes were closely related to the 1930 GWR 5400 Class, which was in turn an evolution of both the Armstrong 1874 GWR 850 Class and the Dean 1891 GWR 2021 Class. Thus the basic design was almost sixty years old when new, the driving wheels being the main distinguishing factor, apart from the more modern profile. There were also superficial similarities with the GWR 645 Class as extant in the 1930s, that also had wheels and stroke cylinders (and by then pannier tanks and full cabs).\n\nThe smaller wheels of the 64xx's permitted operation in hillier locations than the 5400 Class and allocations were initially to the South Wales valleys.\n\nEngines of class 6400 worked on many of the ex-GWR branch lines in Devon and Cornwall until the early 1960s, when the lines closed or diesel multiple units took over services. Number 6430 was a regular engine on the old Tavistock South branch line and would often run with two autocoaches. No. 6412 was based at Gloucester loco shed and operated the last 'Chalford Shuttle' autotrain service between Gloucester and Chalford in 1962.\n\nThere were 40 locomotives in the 6400 Class, numbered 6400-6439 and 50 locomotives in the 7400 Class, numbered 7400-7449. \nThe below list shows when all of the original 6400's and later 7400's were withdrawn from service.\n\nThree of the 6400 Class have survived to preservation:\n\nA 64xx Class loco (no. 6412) was the title character of the British 1970s TV series \"The Flockton Flyer\", which was filmed on the West Somerset Railway where the preserved locomotive was based. (No. 6412 was relocated to the South Devon Railway in 2009.)\n\nLionheart manufacture a model of the 64xx in O scale.\nBachmann have recently begun producing models in OO gauge with the numbers 6407 in GWR unlined green, 6417 in BR unlined black and 6412 in BR lined Brunswick Green, with an N gauge version (under the Graham Farish brand) to follow shortly with the numbers 6407 in GWR unlined green, 6403 in BR unlined black and 6400 in BR lined Brunswick Green.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2234924", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234924", "title": "Smashes, Thrashes &amp; Hits", "text": "Smashes, Thrashes &amp; Hits\n\nSmashes, Thrashes & Hits is a compilation album by the American hard rock band Kiss. It was the fourth hits album overall but the second album released by the band in the United States (\"Killers\" and Chikara were not released there originally). Of the 15 songs on the album, two were new compositions, and three were released after the band's unmasking in 1983. The remaining 10 were all released during the band's years in make-up.\n\nThe two new songs on \"Smashes, Thrashes & Hits\" were \"Let's Put the X in Sex\" and \"(You Make Me) Rock Hard,\" which featured a similar polished production style as 1987's \"Crazy Nights\". They were both produced and co-written by guitarist/vocalist Paul Stanley, and were accompanied by videos that received moderate airplay on MTV. Unusual for Kiss videos, Paul Stanley never plays a guitar in either video for the new songs.\n\nNearly all of the songs recorded by the band's original lineup were altered in one way or another. \"Beth\" was re-recorded with lead vocals by drummer Eric Carr, who had replaced the original drummer Peter Criss in 1980. It was Carr's first lead vocal on a Kiss album. The cover was designed and art directed by Mitchell Kanner.\n\n\"Smashes, Thrashes & Hits\" was certified 2× Platinum by the RIAA on February 26, 1996.\n\nIn the United States \"Smashes, Thrashes & Hits\" is the best selling Kiss album since Nielsen SoundScan began tracking record sales in 1991 with 810,000 copies sold since 2007.\n\n\n\nAlbum \nSingles \n"}
{"id": "2234926", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234926", "title": "Takashi Matsuoka", "text": "Takashi Matsuoka\n\nTakashi Matsuoka (born January 10, 1947) is a first-generation Japanese American writer. He lives in Honolulu, Hawaii, United States, and worked at a Zen Buddhist temple before becoming a full-time writer. His books about American missionaries' visits to Japan are often compared to \"Shōgun\" and other books by British historical novelist James Clavell. Matsuoka also worked as a writer for the 1990 film \"Pale Blood\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2234927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234927", "title": "Tuda of Lindisfarne", "text": "Tuda of Lindisfarne\n\nTuda of Lindisfarne (died 664), also known as Saint Tuda, was appointed to succeed Colman as Bishop of Lindisfarne. He served for less than a year. Although raised in Ireland, he was a staunch supporter of Roman practices, being tonsured in the Roman manner and celebrating Easter according to the Roman Computus. However, he was consecrated as bishop in Ireland.\n\nUpon Colman's departure from Lindisfarne, he requested the king to appoint Abbot Eata of Melrose Abbey as his successor as Abbot of Lindisfarne. Tuda was appointed bishop of the Northumbrians. Tuda had been educated in the south of Ireland.\n\nTuda became bishop in 664 and died in that same year. The \"Anglo-Saxon Chronicle\" (in its entry for 656) includes a 664 charter for the minster of Medhamsted, or Peter-borough, which lists Tuda as among the consecrators.\n\nThe same \"Chronicle\" for the year 664 records that Tuda was one of many who died in the plague of that year.\n\nTuda's feast day is 21 October.\n\n"}
{"id": "2234932", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234932", "title": "Westfield Stratford City", "text": "Westfield Stratford City\n\nWestfield Stratford City is a shopping centre in Stratford, east London, which opened on 13 September 2011. With a total retail floor area of , it is one of the largest urban shopping centres in Europe, and the 4th-largest shopping centre in the UK by retail space, behind Westfield London, the MetroCentre, and the Trafford Centre.\nOriginally fully owned by the Westfield Group, in November 2010 ABP Pension Fund and CPP Investment Board each purchased a 25% shareholding, with Westfield retaining 50%. Westfield's holding is now owned by Unibail-Rodamco-Westfield following Unibail-Rodamco's acquisition of Westfield Corporation in 2018.\n\nWestfield Stratford City is adjacent to the London Olympic Park, International Quarter London, East Village, Stratford Regional and Stratford International stations. The shopping centre is part of a large multi-purpose development project called Stratford City. It is promoted as contributing significantly to the local economy, with the creation of up to 10,000 permanent jobs including 2,001 going to local people. However, there are counter-reports of significant harm to other local businesses due to the preponderance of chain stores.\n\nThe site was formerly occupied by Stratford Works and Locomotive Depot.\n\nThe shopping centre is anchored by a John Lewis department store, a Waitrose supermarket, a Marks & Spencer department store, a 24-hour casino (Aspers) and a seventeen screen all-digital Vue cinema. The shopping centre also has a 267-room Premier Inn hotel, a Holiday Inn with 350 rooms and Staybridge Suites.\nThe shopping centre has approximately 280 stores and 70 restaurants.\n\nTo the south of the site lies Stratford station which is served by London Underground's Central and Jubilee lines, Greater Anglia, TfL Rail, London Overground, Docklands Light Railway, and a number of c2c services. The Elizabeth line was scheduled to serve the station from 2018, but has since been postponed. To the north lies Stratford International station, which is served by Southeastern High Speed and Docklands Light Railway services.\n\nStratford bus station and Stratford City bus station are served by numerous London Buses routes and National Express and Terravision long distance services.\n\nAccording to Westfield, while the site supports a 5,000 space car park, 80% of the shoppers arrive at the centre on public transport.\n\nIn September 2011 Nicole Scherzinger marked the opening of Westfield Stratford City with a performance.\n\nIn January 2012, \"The X Factor\" singer Olly Murs filmed a music video for his single \"Oh My Goodness\" at Westfield Stratford City.\n\n"}
{"id": "2234935", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234935", "title": "1880–81 in English football", "text": "1880–81 in English football\n\nThe 1880–1881 season was the tenth season of competitive football in England.\n\nEngland played their first home match outside London when they hosted Wales at Alexandra Meadows in Blackburn.\n<nowiki>*</nowiki> England score given first\n\n"}
{"id": "2234954", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234954", "title": "Arturo Michelena", "text": "Arturo Michelena\n\nFrancisco Arturo Michelena Castillo (; 16 June 1863  – 29 July 1898) was a Venezuelan painter born in Valencia in Carabobo State. He began to paint at a young age under his father's tutelage. Traveled to Paris where he studied in the famous Académie Julian. He was the first Venezuelan artist to succeed overseas and, with Cristóbal Rojas (1857–1890) and Martín Tovar y Tovar (1827–1902), one of the most important Venezuelan painters of the 19th century.\n\nHis first great success occurred in Paris at \"Le Salon des Artistes Français\" in 1887. Encouraged by his teacher Jean-Paul Laurens (1838–1921), Michelena presented a canvas titled \"L'Enfant Malade\" (The sick boy) which was awarded the Gold Medal, second class, the highest honor a foreign artist could receive at the salon. The painting was quickly considered a masterpiece and was acquired by the Astors in New York in the late 19th century. Later the painting traveled to South Florida when it was acquired by Owens Burns, a business partner of John Ringling, the circus magnate. After Burns' death the painting was stored in the Ringling Museum's vaults where it remained away from public view for more than 60 years. In 2004 Sotheby's rescued the canvas and arranged for it to be included in an auction of Latin American art. The painting was sold for the record amount of US$1,350,000.\n"}
{"id": "2234956", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234956", "title": "Ginn Racing", "text": "Ginn Racing\n\nGinn Racing was a NASCAR Cup Series team based in Mooresville, North Carolina, near the sport's hub in Charlotte. Its principal owners in its final season, 2007, were resort and real-estate developers Bobby Ginn and Thomas Ginn (the Ginn family owned 80%) and longtime team director Jay Frye (20%). The team's original name was MB2 Motorsports, formed by the last names of the team owners Read Morton, Tom Beard, and Nelson Bowers. Bowers was the longest tenured of the original owners, and the listed owner of the teams' entries when Bobby Ginn bought out the team. The Valvoline corporation co-owned the No. 10 (later the No. 14) car with the principal owners from 2001 to 2005 as MBV Motorsports, while the No. 36 entry (later the No. 13) was co-owned by Centrix Financial, LLC owner Robert Sutton as MB Sutton Motorsports in 2005.\n\n\nThe No. 01 car started out as the No. 36 Pontiac in 1997 with sponsorship from M&M-Mars through its Skittles candy brand, and driver Derrike Cope. Cope finished 27th in the final point standings. \n\nVeteran driver Ernie Irvan took over from Cope in 1998. The season was highlighted by Irvan's pole win at the Brickyard 400. M&M's replaced Skittles as the team's sponsor in 1999. Irvan retired from racing in September following a crash at Michigan International Speedway. Dick Trickle temporarily replaced Irvan before the driving chores were permanently turned over to journeyman Jerry Nadeau.\n\nNadeau left MB2 due to a prior commitment to drive for Hendrick Motorsports, and MB2 signed four-time winner Ken Schrader to fill the seat. Schrader drove the No. 36 for three seasons before leaving for BAM Racing. \n\nIn 2003, the United States Army replaced M&M's as the team's sponsor. The car number was switched from 36 to 01 to support the Army's slogan, \"An Army of One.\" Nadeau returned to MB2 as the driver of the No. 01 car, and in his first 10 races with the team he had only two top-20 finishes, with a fourth-place finish at Texas.\n\nOn May 2, 2003, during practice at Richmond International Raceway, Nadeau lost control of the No. 01 while trying to avoid another car in turn one, spun and slammed driver-side first into the concrete wall. He suffered fractures to his skull and several ribs along with a collapsed lung and temporary paralysis on his left side, and the cumulative effects forced him into retirement at age 33. Busch Series veteran Jason Keller replaced Nadeau at the Richmond race and finished 32nd. The team went through several substitutes for the rest of the year. Mike Wallace ran the next four races, then four more races afterwards (skipping Sonoma) with a best finish of 19th at Dover. Mike Skinner, released from Morgan McClure Motorsports, made eleven starts in the #01, earning a pole at Richmond. Boris Said ran both road course races, with both a pole and sixth-place finish at Sonoma.\n\nSaid and Skinner earned spots in the 2004 Budweiser Shootout for their respective pole runs, with Said in the #01 finishing 10th, and Skinner finishing 15th in the #10 Valvoline car.\n\n\nJoe Nemechek, who had been released from Hendrick Motorsports' 25 car (where he had replaced Nadeau), was signed by MB2 as the new permanent driver of the #01 car starting with the last four races of 2003, and earned a top-ten finish at Atlanta. Nemechek finished 19th in points in 2004, but won two consecutive poles with the second leading to victory at the 2004 Banquet 400, in which he led the final 37 laps to win his fourth and final career Nextel Cup race and giving him a weekend sweep at Kansas Speedway, after having won the Mr. Goodcents 300 Busch Series race the day before. Nemechek finished with three top-five finishes and nine top-10s, and signed a contract extension that kept him with MB2 through 2005.\n\nNemechek started off 2005 with a strong run at the second race of the season at Auto Club Speedway. Coming off a solid 13th-place finish at Daytona, Joe started 4th and led leading a race-high 63 laps before his Hendrick Motorsports-built engine expired on lap 178. This was one of six Hendrick engine failures, which included that of teammate Scott Riggs. By race 26 at Richmond, the 01 team found itself as a longshot of making the Chase, sitting 16th in the standings 135 points out of 10th place as the last mathematical contender for a spot in the 10-race playoff. The team's chase hunt was ultimately foiled when Travis Kvapil collided with Nemechek under caution right after he had gotten back on the lead lap, relegating them to a 26th-place finish. Overall, Nemechek improved on the previous years points performance, ranking 16th with 1 pole and 9 top 10s but no wins and only two top 5s.\n\n2006 was a struggle for Nemechek and the 01 team, with the team not scoring a top 10 until finishing 9th at Charlotte in October, the 31st race of the season. Nemechek went winless again, with no pole starts, only two top 10s, and a dismal 27th-place points finish.\n\nVeteran Mark Martin, coming off his final year with Roush Racing, was signed drive the car for 23 races (21 points races plus the Budweiser Shootout and Nextel All-Star Challenge) in 2007, with Joe Nemechek moving over to the team's new 13 team. Regan Smith was pinned to fill the remaining 16 races of the season, while driving in the Busch Series for the team as well. The team also changed its name to Ginn Racing to reflect Bobby Ginn's new majority interest in the team. Martin was leading in the final turn of the season-opening Daytona 500, after lining up on the final restart with former Roush teammates Greg Biffle and Matt Kenseth behind him. Coming down the front stretch, and with the field wrecking behind him, Martin looked to have finally come through at Daytona. But the caution was not called, and Kevin Harvick caught Martin on his outside, beating him to the line by two-hundredths of a second. Martin put together more strong finishes, and after the fourth race at Atlanta was leading the points standings in what was supposed to be his first season of semi-retirement. Resisting the chance to capture his first championship, Martin did step out of the car as scheduled, breaking a streak of 621 consecutive starts. In 24 starts for the team, Martin scored 11 top 10s, and finished 27th in points despite missing 12 races.\n\n\nRookie Regan Smith meanwhile made his debut at Bristol Motor Speedway in March, finishing 25th. Smith would run 6 more races in the car, with a best finish of 24th at Talladega Superspeedway. On July 17, it was announced that Smith would move to the 14 car on a full-time basis, replacing veteran Sterling Marlin. Meanwhile, 23-year-old Aric Almirola, who was granted his release from Joe Gibbs Racing after being pulled out of a car he qualified on the pole during a Busch Series race in favor of Denny Hamlin, signed on to be the new co-driver of the 01. With the merger of Ginn and Dale Earnhardt, Inc. not long afterwards, Smith was left on the sidelines while Almirola ran 5 races. Aric's results were not much better than Regan's, with a best finish of 26th at Phoenix. Both drivers would continue with DEI in 2008 running for ROTY, and both would become winners later in their Cup careers.\n\nOn April 30, 2004, MB2 Motorsports announced a partnership with CENTRIX Financial, LLC, coming on as an associate sponsor for the 01 and 10 cars. In addition, the team's original number 36 would be resurrected to field a third team part-time for Road course ringer Boris Said, who had driven the 01 for two races in 2003 which included a pole at Sonoma. Centrix was scheduled to sponsor two races, debuting with a 6th-place finish at Sonoma. Centrix sponsored Said again at the oval track Auto Club Speedway, where he finished one lap down in 30th. USG Sheetrock (an associate on the 01) came on to sponsor two more races for Said, DNQing at Watkins Glen and finishing 28th in the season finale at Homestead after a transmission failure late in the race.\n\nThe No. 36 team returned for 2005, expanding Said's schedule to a minimum of 10 races beginning with the Daytona 500. Like the 10 team which was co-owned by Valvoline executive James Rocco, sponsor Centrix's owner and racing enthusiast Bob Sutton came on as an equity partner for the 36 car, changing the team name to MB Sutton Motorsports. Said had stated that he would have liked to drive the car on a full-time basis if sponsorship was found. Veteran crew chief Frankie Stoddard would lead the 36 team. Said ultimately attempted 12 races, struggling on oval tracks, with a best finish of 27th at Daytona and Texas and three DNQs. He did run well at Talladega in May, qualifying 12th and running in the top 15 before a 25-car pileup ended his day with 35 laps remaining. Boris was, however, strong as always in his road course element. At Sonoma in June, Said was running well when he entered the pits while they were closed after a caution was thrown with 40 laps to go. Sent back to 32nd place, he made it up to 13th place with 10 laps to go, but was relegated to a 17th-place finish after a caution with 7 laps to go. Said shined later in the year at Watkins Glen, starting 41st after qualifying was rained out, and racing with NASCAR Road Course aces Tony Stewart and Robby Gordon for the win. Said would score a career-best 3rd-place finish. Said left the team to drive for No Fear Racing in the No. 60 Ford in 2006.\nEarly in 2006, 1988 Cup Champion and 2-time Daytona 500 winner Bill Elliott announced that he would pilot the No. 36 Chevrolet in the 2006 Daytona 500, with Ginn Resorts coming on to sponsor the effort. Elliott qualified 33rd, but avoided several wrecks to finish 19th in the Great American Race. The team would not run again in 2006.\n\n\nThe team went full-time in 2007, switching to No. 13 with Joe Nemechek moving over from the No. 01 and Peter Sospenzo taking on crew chief duties. CertainTeed was announced as the primary sponsor of the car for 18 races, with associate sponsor status for the other half of the season. Bobby Ginn's Ginn Resorts filled out the remaining races. Nemechek opened the year with a 9th-place finish at the Daytona 500, but missed the 5th race of the season at Bristol and did not have another top 10 with the team for the rest of the year. After sitting 33rd in points following the race at Chicagoland, Nemechek was released from the 13 car as well as teammate Sterling Marlin from his No. 14 ride, with the team's status \"being evaluated because of lack of sponsorship.\" Ultimately, the 13 team was shut down after the merger with DEI, and Nemechek would move to Furniture Row Racing for the remainder of the season beginning at Fontana.\n\nWhat became the No. 14 team originally ran several different numbers part of Darrell Waltrip Motorsports and the Tyler Jet Motorsports. At the second Pocono race weekend in 2000, MB2 Motorsports purchased Tyler Jet's unsponsored No. 10 team, driven by Johnny Benson. When MB2 bought the team, Benson remained the driver, with an announcement that Aaron's and RCA would sponsor the No. 10 for the remainder of 2000 and Valvoline would begin sponsoring the car in 2001. Benson finished the season driving full-time for MB2 with Aaron's and RCA on the car.\nIn 2001, Valvoline became the team's new sponsor, with Benson remaining the driver. Additionally, Valvoline purchased an ownership stake in the No. 10 team, becoming the first corporation to own a NASCAR team. The No. 10 team's name was changed to MBV Motorsports to reflect Valvoline's presence (though the overall team remained MB2). Benson and Valvoline returned for the full season in 2002. He eventually drove to his first career win at the 2002 Pop Secret 400 at Rockingham.\n\nBoth Benson and Valvoline remained with the car in 2003. Midway through the season, the team announced it was parting ways with Benson at the conclusion of the season. \n\nThirty-two-year-old Busch Series driver Scott Riggs was signed to a multi-year contract, and would to replace Benson for the 2004 season. Riggs was set to compete against a strong rookie class that included his former Busch Series competitors Brian Vickers, Kasey Kahne, Scott Wimmer, and Johnny Sauter as well as Truck Series driver Brendan Gaughan. With Pontiac leaving the sport, the team was forced to switch to Chevrolet. Mike Skinner ran the exhibition Budweiser Shootout in the 10 after winning a pole at Richmond driving the 01 in 2003 subbing for Jerry Nadeau. Riggs missed the fall race at Atlanta, and scored only 2 top 10 finishes and had 8 DNFs en route to a 29th place points standing in his rookie season.\n\nIn 2005, Riggs won the pole at Martinsville and finished 4th in the Daytona 500. Riggs had a career best performance at Michigan, using a fuel mileage gamble to drive from 29th to 2nd place in the final 51 laps. Riggs statistics improved slightly (4 top 10 finishes), but he had 7 DNFs and finished 34th in the season standings. Valvoline announced that it was to sell its ownership stake back to MB2's principal owners and ended sponsorship of the car, taking Riggs and the No. 10 to Evernham Motorsports.\n\n\nIn November 2005, it was announced that veteran driver Sterling Marlin would come over from Chip Ganassi Racing to drive for MB2 in 2006. The team would be sponsored by Waste Management in 12 races, with Centrix Financial returning and Ginn Resorts coming on to fill the remainder of the schedule. In tribute to Marlin's father Coo Coo who had passed the previous year, the team took on the number 14. Midway through the season, the team replaced crew chief Doug Randolph with Scott Eggleston, who worked with Marlin at Team SABCO. The team had only one top 10 finish and ranked 34th in points at the end of the year.\n\nFor 2007, Marlin returned as did Waste Management for 12 races, while new sponsor Panasonic signed on for 12 races as well, and veteran crew chief Slugger Labbe handled the team. After a 2007 season filled with struggles and a best finish of 13th, in July Marlin was to be replaced by Regan Smith, who had previously been co-piloting the No. 01, for the remainder of the year. However, upon the merger of Ginn Racing and DEI at Indy, and before Smith even got the chance to drive the No. 14, the No. 14 team was merged with the No. 15 team, and its owner points were carried to the Paul Menard-piloted Menards car. Smith would pilot the No. 01 full-time in 2008 with DEI.\n\n Johnny Benson raced races 1-18 of the 2000 season with Tyler Jet Motorsports before the team (and its Owners Points) were purchased by MB2.\n\nIn addition to his 16 race schedule in the 01 shared with Mark Martin, Regan Smith was set to make his Nextel Cup debut at the 2007 Daytona 500 in a fourth Ginn Racing car, with Ginn Resorts sponsoring. The car was numbered 39 due to the 36 being taken by Bill Davis Racing and Jeremy Mayfield. In his debut, Smith qualified 26th, which earned him a 12th starting position in the 2nd Gatorade 150 duel race. He finished 19th of 30 cars, and seventh out of the 13 drivers who needed to race their way into the 500, which was not enough to get him into the race. The No. 39 was on the Fontana entry list the next week, but was withdrawn. Smith would make his Cup debut in the 01 at Bristol Motor Speedway.\n\n\nBeginning in 2006, MB2 Motorsports established a partnership with Morgan-Dollar Motorsports in the Craftsman Truck Series, fielding a full-time truck with MB2/Ginn development driver Kraig Kinser (son of Steve Kinser). Kinser struggled in his rookie season and was pulled from the ride late in the season.\n\nFor 2007, Ginn expanded its development program, signing motocross racer Ricky Carmichael and Drive for Diversity member Jesus Hernandez to development contracts. Kinser returned to the Truck Series, scheduled to share the ride with Hernandez, with Ginn Resorts sponsoring. The team also started a Busch Series team for Cup rookie Regan Smith and Kinser, also funded by Ginn Resorts. This was originally numbered No. 04, but NASCAR reassigned No. 4 to Ginn after Biagi-DenBeste Racing shut down in January 2007. The No. 4 Busch Series team was shut down after the Kentucky race in June, with Smith 12th in the championship standings at the time. Following the DEI/Ginn merger, Smith was placed in the 47 Morgan-Dollar truck for the balance of the season. Aric Almirola ran a single truck race at Nashville, finishing 23rd.\n\nOn July 25, 2007, Ginn Racing announced it had merged with Dale Earnhardt, Inc.. The No. 01 team joined the No. 1, No. 8 and No. 15 teams. The merger did not affect the DEI team name.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2234958", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234958", "title": "Robert P. Briscoe", "text": "Robert P. Briscoe\n\nRobert Pearce Briscoe (February 19, 1897 – October 14, 1968) was an Admiral of the United States Navy. He commanded two ships, a destroyer squadron, and an amphibious group during World War II. He later served as Commander-in-Chief, Allied Forces Southern Europe, from 1956 to 1959. He was a native of Centreville, Mississippi born February 19, 1897, to Pearce and Alice Briscoe.\n\nAccording to the New York Times, Briscoe became interested in the Navy when he saw sailing the Mississippi River near his home in 1910. Admiral Briscoe graduated from the United States Naval Academy in June 1918. During World War I he served on the battleship USS \"Alabama\" (BB-8) of the U.S. Atlantic Fleet and on the destroyer USS \"Roe\" (DD-24), operating from Brest, France. At the end of hostilities, he made the first postwar Midshipmen cruise in the USS \"Kearsarge\" (BB-5) and in 1919 returned to destroyer duty as engineer officer of the USS \"Humphreys\" (DD-236), stationed in Near East waters at Constantinople. During the Turko-Greek fighting in 1920–1921, he commanded a naval landing force at Derindge, Turkey.\n\nAfter further destroyer duty in the USS \"Flusser\" (DD-289) and USS \"Henderson\" (AP-1), and recruiting duty at Little Rock, Arkansas, he served as Senior Assistant Engineer of the battleship USS \"West Virginia\" (BB-48) from 1926 to 1929, then returned to the Naval Academy as an instructor in Mechanical Engineering. From 1931 to 1933 he was on China Station, assigned first as executive officer of the USS \"Edsall\" (DD-219), on Yangtze River patrol during the Japanese occupation of Woosung and Manchuria, and later as Communication Officer of the USS \"Houston\" (CA-30), flagship of the Commander in Chief, Asiatic Fleet. He again returned to the Naval Academy in June 1934, and for three years served as head of the Department of Chemistry.\n\nSea duty as navigator of the battleship \"Mississippi\" (BB-41) preceded a tour during the pre-war period as Assistant Director of the U.S. Naval Research Laboratory and Navy Department Liaison Officer with the National Defense Research Committee. He has been identified as one of the pioneers of modern electronics development in the Navy.\n\nIn May 1942, he assumed command of the USS \"Prometheus\" (AR-3), a recommissioned World War I repair ship. Under his command, she joined the U.S. 3rd Fleet at Noumea, New Caledonia, where he was detached to command Destroyer Squadron 5 and operated as escort commander for Task Forces 67, 68 and 70. In the intervening periods when the battleships and cruisers were not at sea, Admiral Briscoe operated Commander Task Group 675 (Cactus Striking Force) in Guadalcanal waters.\n\nHe was transferred to command of the USS \"Denver\" (CL-58) in July 1943 and was in command during the Northern Solomon Islands campaign. During a thirty-six-hour battle with Japanese naval forces, his ship assisted in the sinking of five enemy warships, damaging four others and routing the enemy's surface forces. His ship's guns had barely fired their last salvo when she was attacked by sixty-seven dive bombers. Under his command, the ship downed seventeen enemy planes and thwarted the raid. He sailed the cruiser to the United States after she suffered severe battle damage off Rabaul in November 1943.\n\nIn February 1944, he joined the staff of the Commander in Chief, U.S. Fleet, in Washington, D.C., as head of New Developments, and with his promotion to flag rank in April 1945, assumed command of Amphibious Group 14. Victory over Japan Day found him in Manila, working on plans for the invasion of the Japanese homeland.\n\nIn September 1945, he took command of the Operational Development Force, Atlantic Fleet with headquarters at Norfolk, Virginia. After two years there, and a tour of duty as Assistant Chief of Naval Operations (Readiness), he became Commander Amphibious Force, Atlantic Fleet, on November 1, 1950.\n\nOrdered in January 1952 to command the U.S. 7th Fleet in Korean waters, he retained this command until designated Commander Naval Forces, Far East, in June of that year. During this tenure, he recommended an amphibious feint to draw North Korean combatants from their dug-in front line positions to cover potential landing zones. This resulted in a significant shift of troop concentrations by enemy forces over a period of three months.\n\nTwo years later, he reported as Deputy Chief of Naval Operations, for Fleet Operations and Readiness, and on 2 July 1956, became Commander in Chief, Allied Forces, Southern Europe.\n\n\nOn January 1, 1959, he was transferred to the Retired List of the United States Navy. He retired to Beech Grove Plantation, Liberty, Mississippi, worked on its restoration and raised cattle. Beech Grove was the Lewis family (his wife) home and is now on the National Register of Historic Places as the Thomas Batchelor House. Briscoe was said to be \"a hunting enthusiast and an avid collector of antiques.\" He died on October 14, 1968, at his home near Liberty, Mississippi of an apparent heart attack. He was survived by his wife Katherine (Lewis), sister Marquerite Briscoe and brothers William and Beverly Briscoe. He was buried with full military honors in Arlington National Cemetery on October 18, 1968, in section 2, grave 3387-c. In May 1978, his wife Katherine Lewis-Briscoe (1897–1978) was buried there as well.\n"}
{"id": "2234960", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234960", "title": "Kalyandurg", "text": "Kalyandurg\n\nKalyanadurgam is a town in Anantapur district of the Indian state of Andhra Pradesh. It is the headquarters for Kalyanadurgam mandal and Kalyanadurgam revenue division. The discovery of diamond-bearing Kimberlites in Kalyanadurgam area, is one of the clusters that has been discovered.\n\nPalegars ruled important forts of Kalyanadurgam and rayadurgam. The name of Kalyanadurgam was derived from the name of one such Polygar of 16th Century known as \"Kalyanappa\". Kalyanadurgam was under the rule of Sri Krishnadevaraya and was a part of Vijayanagara Empire.\n\nKalyanadurgam was a taluk of Anantapur district in Madras province which was earlier a part of Dharmavaram that was separated in 1893.\n\nSri Subrahmanyeswara Swamy temple is located at the heart of the town. This temple was built in around 16th century.\n\nAnantapur district is replete with Megalithic remains. In the vicinity of Kalyanadurg, several hundred megalithic monuments, such as dolemnoid cists and cairn circles are situated at the foothills and the slopes of the Akkamma Vari hills. Another large group of cairn circles is 2 km north of Akkamma Gari Konda. Similar remains are located at Mudigallu, a village about 5 km easterly to Kalyandurg, and Muthalabanda village, 2 km north east of town, and Gallaplli situated towards Rayadurgam.\n\nKalyanadurgam is located at . It has an average elevation of 591 metres (1942 ft). The region of Kalyanadurgam area is an arid zone with poor stony red soils.\n\n Census of India, Kalyanadurgam had a population of 32,328. The population constituted 16,036 males and 16,292 females — a sex ratio of 1016 females per 1000 males. 3,404 children are in the age group of 0–6 years, of which 1,760 are boys and 1,644 are girls — a ratio of 979 per 1000. The average literacy rate stands at 74.14% with 21,443 literates, significantly higher than the state average of 67.41%.\n\nThe municipality is spread over an area of . It has an expenditure of and generates an annual income of . The municipal body oversees the supply of water with 70 litres per capita per day, in the form 453 public taps and 66 bore–wells. Its other services include maintenance of community halls, secondary and elementary schools and of roads, maternity and child health center such as the Government Hospital, RDT Hospital, and others.\n\nKalyanadurgam (Assembly constituency) is one of 14 constituencies in Anantapur district, representing Andhra Pradesh Legislative Assembly.K. V. Ushashri Charan of YSR Congress Party is the present MLA representing Kalyanadurgam (Assembly constituency).\n\nThe primary and secondary school education is imparted by government, aided and private schools, under the \"School Education Department\" of the state. The medium of instruction followed by different schools are English and Telugu.\n\nThe Kalyanadurgam railway station is under the jurisdiction of Mysore railway division of South Western Railway Zone\n\n"}
{"id": "2234963", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234963", "title": "Nothing Fails", "text": "Nothing Fails\n\n\"Nothing Fails\" is a song by American singer-songwriter Madonna from her ninth studio album, \"American Life\" (2003). Written by Madonna, Guy Sigsworth and Jem Griffiths, and produced by the singer along with Mirwais Ahmadzaï and Mark \"Spike\" Stent, it was released as the third single from the album on October 26, 2003. Originally demoed as \"Silly Thing\", \"Nothing Fails\" is a love song which has acoustic guitar chords and a gospel choir appearance. Lyrically, the song discusses a lover who is the one, and how their meeting was not just chance. A number of remixes of the song were done, with one of them being included on Madonna's remix album \"Remixed & Revisited\" (2003).\n\nThe song received generally positive reviews, with music critics praising it as one of the best tracks from \"American Life\", while others compared it with Madonna's previous single \"Like a Prayer\" (1989), as both songs feature a gospel choir. \"Nothing Fails\" was released in the US in hopes of attaining sales from \"American Life\". However, it did not chart on the US \"Billboard\" Hot 100, making it the second single from the album to fail to chart in the US. However, the song reached number one on the Hot Dance Club Songs and Hot Singles Sales charts. Internationally, the song was a success, reaching the top ten in Australia, Belgium, Canada and Italy while topping the charts in Spain.\n\nAlthough initially reported on the contrary, no music video was filmed for \"Nothing Fails\". The song was performed during a promotional tour for \"American Life\" in 2003, along with other songs from the album and her past hits. One of these performances was shown by MTV in a special named \"Madonna on Stage & on the Record\". It was also performed during Madonna's sixth concert tour, the Re-Invention World Tour (2004), with Madonna alone on stage singing the song accompanied by an acoustic guitar. Many reviewers noted that Madonna in the performance was a \"solitary figure\" as it was herself alone playing the acoustic guitar.\n\nAccording to Lucy O'Brien, author of \"\", the main concept of \"American Life\" was about \"nothing\". This was evident in the titles of the songs like \"Nobody Knows Me\", usage of \"no\" in \"Love Profusion\", as well as \"Nothing Fails\". Usage of the negative tone led Madonna to be sarcastic on people's assumptions about her and emphasize about her knowledge of romantic love. \"Nothing Fails\" began as a humble track that musician-producer Guy Sigsworth wrote for his wife. He asked singer Jem Griffiths to collaborate with him and during their first collaborative session, they wrote a song called \"Silly Thing\", inspired by Sigsworth's wife. He said: \"I never write love songs, but I was moved to write one for her. I've never had a problematic relationship with her, there's not been a lot of drama. But I wanted to write something naive and honest.\" The demo, which sounded like an offbeat folk song, was later played for Madonna, who loved it and added to and changed parts and the title of the song. In September 2012, Sigsworth leaked the original version of \"Nothing Fails\", describing it as a \"work-in-progress demo of a song I originally wrote with Jem, and which later became 'Nothing Fails', co-written and recorded by Madonna. It's over ten years old\". On \"Nothing Fails\", Griffiths said:\n\"When I actually heard it I was so shocked, [be]cause it was the first time I believed [my career] was actually going to happen. And to hear Madonna singing it was like, oh my [God], so bizarre. My mom keeps calling me whenever it's on. She'll go to shops in the UK and hold the phone up to the thing and I'm like, 'They're going to arrest you.'\"\n\"Nothing Fails\" was produced by Madonna and Mirwais Ahmadzaï, with an additional production by Mark \"Spike\" Stent. The recording sessions for \"American Life\" started at late 2001, then was put on hold as Madonna filmed \"Swept Away\" in Malta and starred in the West End play \"Up for Grabs\". She returned to the Olympic Recording Studios in late 2002 and finished off the sessions. The mixing for the track was done by Mark \"Spike\" Stent at the Westlake Recording Studios at West Hollywood, California, while Tim Young did the mastering of the song at Metropolis Studios in London. Michael Colombier did the string arrangement with Geoff Foster acting as the strings engineer, conducting at AIR Studios. For the instrumentation featured in the song, Ahmadzaï played the guitars, and Stuart Price played the piano.\n\n\"Nothing Fails\" features an acoustic guitar introduction, which is a recurring theme of \"American Life\". The guitar is accompanied by a \"light\" drum section and low-pitched vocals from Madonna and also features a cello in the first part of the song, while gospel music comes in at the later half. According to the sheet music published at Musicnotes.com by Alfred Publishing, \"Nothing Fails\" is written in the time signature of common time with a moderately slow tempo of 92 beats per minute. It is composed in the key of B major with Madonna's voice spanning from F to B. The song follows a basic sequence of Gm–F–E–B–Gm as its chord progression.\n\nLyrically, the song discusses a lover who is the one, and how their meeting was not just chance, a reference to the \"tree of life\" is made during the song while Madonna makes denouncements of religion by singing \"I'm not religious\" but she wishes to pray. Bill Friskics-Warren, author of \"I'll Take You There: Pop Music and the Urge for Transcendence\", described the lyrics as consisting of double entendre, talking about both spiritual and sexual rebirth. The London Community Gospel Choir, led by Nicki Brown, recorded backing vocals for the song. The strings engineer for the choir, Geoff Foster, recalls that the group consisted of \"a bunch of great singers giving it loudly, it was impressive.\" According to \"Rolling Stone\" and \"The Advocate\", the song glides from a lean arrangement and then reaches its peak with the gospel chorus, which resembles that of Madonna's single, \"Like a Prayer\" (1989).\n\nA remix version for the song, \"Jackie's In Love In The Club Mix\", done by DJ Jackie Christie, was made available as one of the exclusive tracks of the American and European maxi-single release of the song. She maintained Madonna's vocals and the gospel choir appearance, commenting that \"I was asked to remix 'Nothing Fails' [...] I wanted it to be a mainfloor mix with a big choir breakdown so you felt the magic of the Madonna and the choir, like church.\" Peter Rauhofer's remix of the song was added along with the remixes of the follow-up single, \"Love Profusion\". Another version, the \"Jason Nevins Mix\", was included on Madonna's 2003 remix album \"Remixed & Revisited\". Stephen Thomas Erlewine from Allmusic commented that on this remix, Madonna sounds as if she is out of step with the music of 2003.\n\n\"Nothing Fails\" received mostly positive reviews from music critics. O'Brien listed it as a \"hymn of devotion\" and \"the most majestic song on \"American Life\"\". She complemented the \"dramatic, theatrical air\" of the song and noted that the addition of the choir made the song revelatory and ecstatic. J. Randy Taraborrelli wrote in his book, \"\", that although the album was not a strong, cohesive package, \"Nothing Fails\" stood out as one of the few gems. In a review for the album as a whole, Michael Paoletta from \"Billboard\" called it a highlight of \"American Life\", describing the song as \"tear-inducing\". \"Entertainment Weekly\"s Ken Tucker called it \"lovely\" and named it, among other songs from the album \"refreshingly – hell, shockingly – earnest\". Alexis Petridis from \"The Guardian\" praised its choral finale. \n\nSlant Magazine's Sal Cinquemani labeled it one of the moments of greatness on the album. Ian Youngs from BBC Music gave a positive review for \"Nothing Fails\", writing that less is more when it comes to Mirwais' electronic tricks. Johnny Davis from \"NME\" commented that \"only 'Nothing Fails' and 'Intervention' dip beneath the frenetically poppy, with neither a 'Ray of Light'-style glitterball stomper, nor a big ballad to act as a breather\". Josh Tyrangiel from \"Time\" found Madonna's singing in \"Nothing Fails\" as relaxed and woeful, consisting of \"plenty of soul\". A review in the \"Telegram & Gazette\" complimented the song for successfully blending between the \"spiritual and the sensual\". Jon Pareles from \"The New York Times\" believed that \"Nothing Fails\" was able to raise sentiments likened by other people and was prone to introspection, unlike other Madonna tunes. Stephen Thompson of \"The A.V. Club\" considered the song \"emotionally resonant\", but characterized the introduction of a choir as \"busy\".\n\nInstead of praising \"Nothing Fails\", Chuck Taylor from \"Billboard\" said that the song \"illustrates everything that makes [\"American Life\"] a grind\". Ben Ratliff from \"Rolling Stone\" compared it negatively to \"Like a Prayer\" and commented it is much closer to what she's become good at: the idea of transfiguration through love, declaring that the difference in 2003 is she doesn't have the ambition. Stylus Magazine also compared it negatively to \"Like a Prayer\", calling it \"an off-hand denouncement of religion\" and stating that \"the same old song, over 10 years later, just doesn't cut it anymore\". Jim DeRogatis of the \"Chicago Sun-Times\" found the lyric \"I'm not religious\" to be \"confusing and befuddling\", as Madonna references Jesus Christ and Satan in other songs on the album. Jude Rogers from \"The Guardian\" called it a \"quiet, gospel-dazzled jewel\" from \"American Life\", placing it at number 48 on her ranking of Madonna's singles, in honor of her 60th birthday. Chuck Arnold from \"Entertainment Weekly\" listed \"Nothing Fails\" as the singer's 29th best single, calling it \"a triumph - creatively not commercially - that goes from stripped-down earnestness to churched-up gloriousness\".\n\nFollowing the commercial disappointment of \"American Life\" and \"Hollywood\"—the first two singles from \"American Life\"—Maverick sent a radio remix of \"Nothing Fails\" in hopes of attaining sales. The song was sent to Mainstream Top 40 radio on October 28, 2003. \"Nothing Fails\" did not chart in the United States; however, it was a commercial success on the dance charts. According to Fred Bronson, the single release of the remixes of the song debuted at number-one on the Hot Singles Sales and Hot Dance Single Sales chart, on the issue dated December 27, 2003, the same week it also moved up to the top-twenty of the Dance Club Songs chart. \"Me Against the Music\" by Britney Spears, on which Madonna was featured, and \"Nobody Knows Me\", both were also present in the top-twenty, making Madonna the only artist to have three songs within the top-twenty on the chart simultaneously. However, the single sold less than 10,000 units according to Nielsen SoundScan, marking one of the lowest totals at the time for a number-one song on the chart. At the year-end Hot Dance Singles Sales recap, \"Nothing Fails\" was at number two position, while \"Me Against the Music\" and \"Love Profusion\" was at numbers one and three respectively. \"Billboard\" reported that Madonna was the first artist in its chart history to have the top three Dance Sales song.\n\nIn Australia, Warner Bros. Records released a maxi-CD single of \"Nothing Fails\". The release was considered an album by ARIA due to the number of different tracks; it failed to chart on the ARIA Albums Chart. However, it did appear on the ARIA Dance Albums Chart at number six. The song also reached the top ten in Canada. In Europe, \"Nothing Fails\" achieved moderate success on the charts. In Austria, \"Nothing Fails\" debuted at number 74, and one week later, peaked at number 51, going on to spend six weeks inside the chart. On January 3, 2004, \"Nothing Fails\" debuted at its peak of number 50 on the Belgian Flanders Singles Chart. However, it peaked at number three on the Ultratip chart of Wallonia. The song debuted at number 16 on the Danish Singles Chart, peaking at number 11 the next week. The song debuted at its peak of number 34 on the French Singles Chart on November 30, 2003. In its second week, the song began its decline, falling out of the chart at number 97, almost four months later. The song had commercial success in Italy, reaching the top ten on its singles chart, and also in Spain where it reached the top of the chart. On the German Singles Chart, the song peaked at number 36.\n\nNo music video was filmed for promotion of \"Nothing Fails\". Initially it was reported by \"Daily Mirror\" that Madonna planned to shoot the video in Israel with actor Michael Douglas. According to Polly Graham from the newspaper, Warner Bros. executives were concerned about the singer's safety in Israel, but Madonna was adamant. \"Her record bosses are really worried about it. They are trying to talk her around, but she's having none of it. She has told them it makes sense to shoot it in Israel as the Kabbalah originates from there. Madonna is not particularly bothered about her safety and potential risks. She doesn't think it's as bad as it seems.\" Her then husband Guy Ritchie was also facing difficulty with his project, \"Revolver\", which was rejected by Sony Pictures executives since it contained references to Kabbalah, and they asked Ritchie to re-write the script. Since the video itself would have included symbolism from Kabbalah, Madonna ultimately decided to not film the music video. These reports were later refuted by the artist during an interview with San Francisco radio station Alice 97.3, where she explained that no music video would be shot for the single.\nTo start marketing \"American Life\", Madonna embarked on a promo tour. One of these performances, presented at the \"Total Request Live\" studios in New York, was shown by MTV in a special named \"Madonna on Stage & on the Record\". Hosted by Carson Daly, she sang \"Nothing Fails\" and other songs from \"American Life\" while answered questions from the audience. Madonna also performed the song at HMV store in Oxford to around 500 people. She wore a black beret, polka-dot blouse, black trousers and heels. The setlist included \"American Life\", \"Hollywood\", \"Nothing Fails\", \"X-Static Process\" and \"Mother and Father\" before performing her previous singles \"Like a Prayer\" and \"Don't Tell Me\". She also played the acoustic guitar during some songs and played the wrong chords at the beginning of \"X-Static Process\".\n\nThe next year, Madonna performed the song on the Re-Invention World Tour as the first song from the acoustic segment of the concert. She arrived on stage dressed in a black Stella McCartney suit and accompanied by an acoustic guitar to sing the song. Jane Stevenson from \"Toronto Sun\" described Madonna as a \"solitary figure\", as it was her alone playing the acoustic guitar. Bret McCabe from \"Baltimore City Paper\" described it as a \"warm-up\" performance. During the concert in Ireland, she wore a black coat and was protected by an umbrella while performing the song during the rain. This occurrence was mentioned in the \"I'm Going to Tell You a Secret\" documentary, which chronicled the whole tour.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nCredits for \"Nothing Fails\" are adapted from \"American Life\" liner notes.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2234979", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234979", "title": "Hugh Seely, 1st Baron Sherwood", "text": "Hugh Seely, 1st Baron Sherwood\n\nHugh Michael Seely, 1st Baron Sherwood (2 October 1898 – 1 April 1970) was a British Liberal politician. He was the third baronet of the Seely family, of Sherwood Lodge, Nottinghamshire.\n\nSeely was educated at Eton College and became a lieutenant in the Grenadier Guards. He was a Member of Parliament (MP) for East Norfolk from 1923 to 1924, High Sheriff of Nottinghamshire for 1925 and MP for Berwick-upon-Tweed from 1935 to 1941. He was the Joint Under-Secretary of State for Air during a large part of the Second World War (1941–45). In 1946 he acquired and was Chairman of the famous gunmaker James Purdey and Sons.\n\nHe married Molly Patricia Chetwode, (née Berry), daughter of William Ewart Berry, 1st Viscount Camrose, who owned \"The Daily Telegraph \" newspaper. He was created Baron Sherwood, of Calverton in the County of Nottingham on 14 August 1941; the barony became extinct when he died in 1970 without children. His brother Sir Victor Basil John Seely, 4th Baronet (1900–1980) inherited the baronetcy. Victor's son Sir Nigel Edward Seely is the current and 5th Baronet (born 1923). Lord Sherwood was a member of a family of politicians, industrialists and significant landowners. His great-grandfather Charles Seely (1803–1887), grandfather Sir Charles Seely, 1st Baronet, father Sir Charles Seely, 2nd Baronet, and uncle John Edward Bernard Seely, 1st Baron Mottistone were all Members of Parliament.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2234982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234982", "title": "Message-waiting indicator", "text": "Message-waiting indicator\n\nA message-waiting indicator (MWI) in telephony, is a Telcordia Technologies (formerly Bellcore) term for an FSK-based telephone calling feature that illuminates an LED on selected telephones to notify a telephone user of waiting voicemail messages on most North American public telephone networks and PBXs.\n\nAs described in Telcordia Generic Requirements document GR-283-CORE, a Message_Waiting_Indicator (MWI) is a mechanism that informs the subscriber about the status of recorded messages. The subscriber may subscribe to a notification feature that makes use of the status of this MWI.\n\nThis feature is also frequently called (and abbreviated) as visual message waiting indicator (VMWI). A VMWI, as defined in Telcordia GR-1401-CORE, is a stored program controlled switching (SPCS) system feature that activates and deactivates a visual indicator on customer-premises equipment (CPE) to notify the customer that new messages are waiting. VMWI differs from existing features that use other message indicators, such as audible stuttered dial tone, in that it activates a visual indicator on the CPE. The visual indicator may be as simple as lighting or flashing a light-emitting diode (LED), or as advanced as displaying a special message on a liquid-crystal display (LCD).\n\nThis technology was invented by Jerome (Jerry) Schull and Wayne Howe at BellSouth's Advanced Technology R&D group in 1992 and was issued as US Patents #5,363,431 and #5,521,964. It was introduced in 1995, with the introduction of CLASS-based calling features and ADSI. It was at one time only compatible with ADSI-compliant telephones but is now compatible with any customer premises equipment (CPE) that simply responds visually to visual FSK.\n\nThis service is often erroneously associated with the abilities of most Caller ID standalone set-top boxes. Caller ID boxes manufactured after 1998 feature an LED that blinks green to notify that new calls have been recorded and red to indicate that a subscriber has new voicemail messages waiting. Some units also display the text \"MESSAGE WAITING\" (similar to ADSI-compliant telephones). These units do not use visual FSK to activate their red LEDs, but instead, they briefly \"pick-up\" the line at certain intervals (normally, within two minutes of a new call) to check for a \"stuttered\" dial tone. The presence of a stutter dial tone activates a red LED; while absence deactivates it.\n\nFor mobile phones, the message-waiting indicator is sent via a Short Message Service (SMS) message — the same system used for texting. (SMS was actually invented for utilitarian uses like this, not for user conversation.) It not only indicates that a message is waiting, but also how many unheard messages there are on the voicemail server for that telephone number. In the event that a phone is deactivated, out of range, or otherwise removed from the network, there is often no way to clear this indicator until another message is recorded to the system, causing the MWI message to be sent again once the phone reconnects. The customer service call center for the mobile network operator may also be able to provide simple technical support to reset this by resending the MWI message manually.\n"}
{"id": "2234983", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234983", "title": "1881–82 in English football", "text": "1881–82 in English football\n\nThe 1881–1882 season was the 11th season of competitive football in England.\n\nEngland played Ireland for the first time. Their 13–0 victory is still the team's largest ever win.\n<nowiki>*</nowiki> England score given first\n\nKey\n\n"}
{"id": "2234985", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234985", "title": "Zome", "text": "Zome\n\nThe term zome is used in several related senses. A zome in the original sense is a building using unusual geometries (different from the standard house or other building which is essentially one or a series of rectangular boxes).\nThe word \"zome\" was coined in 1968 by Steve Durkee, now known as Nooruddeen Durkee, combining the words dome and zonohedron. One of the earliest models ended up as a large climbing structure at the Lama Foundation. In the second sense as a learning tool or toy, \"Zometool\" refers to a model-construction toy manufactured by Zometool, Inc. It is sometimes thought of as the ultimate form of the \"ball and stick\" construction toy, in form. It appeals to adults as well as children, and is educational on many levels (not the least, geometry). Finally, the term \"Zome system\" refers to the mathematics underlying the physical construction system.\nBoth the building and the learning tool are the brainchildren of inventor/designer Steve Baer, his wife, Holly, and associates.\n\nFollowing his education at Amherst College and UCLA, Steve Baer studied mathematics at Eidgenössische Technische Hochschule (Zurich, Switzerland). Here he became interested in the possibilities of building innovative structures using polyhedra. Baer and his wife, Holly, moved back to the U.S., settling in Albuquerque, New Mexico in the early 1960s. In New Mexico, he experimented with constructing buildings of unusual geometries (calling them by his friend Steve Durkee's term: \"zomes\" — see \"Drop City\") — buildings intended to be appropriate to their environment, notably to utilize solar energy well. Baer was fascinated with the dome geometry popularized by architect R. Buckminster Fuller. Baer was an occasional guest at Drop City, an arts and experimental community near Trinidad, CO. He wanted to design and construct buildings that didn't suffer from some of the limitations of the smaller, owner-built versions of geodesic domes (of the 'pure Fuller' design).\n\nIn recent years, the unconventional \"zome\" building-design approach with its\nmulti-faceted geometric lines has been taken up by French builders in the\nPyrenees. \"Home Work\", a book published in 2004 and edited by Lloyd Kahn, has a section featuring these buildings. While many zomes built in the last couple decades have been wood-framed and made use of wood sheathing, much of what Baer himself originally designed and constructed involved metal framing with a sheet-metal outer skin.\n\nZomes have also been used in the artistic, sculptural, and furniture areas. Zomadic, based in San Francisco, CA and founded by Rob Bell, incorporates zome geometry into artistic structures constructed primarily from CNC machined plywood components. Bell is a frequent attendee at Burning Man, a yearly artistic showcase event located in the Black Rock Desert of Nevada. \n\nRichie Duncan of Kodama Zomes, based in southern Oregon has invented a structural system based on a hanging zome geometry, suspended from an overhead anchor point. Constructed of metal compressive elements and webbing tensile elements, the structures are able to be assembled and disassembled. This suspended zome system has been used in furniture, performing arts, and treehouse applications. \n\nYann Lipnick of Zomadic Concepts in France has an extensive study of, and multiple project construction of zomes in many different materials. He highlights the universal appeal and healing atmosphere that zomes provide, and has training classes and reference books on zome construction.\n\nThe Zometool plastic construction set is produced by a privately owned company of the same name, based outside of Boulder, Colorado, and which evolved out of Baer's company ZomeWorks. It is perhaps best described as a \"space-frame\nconstruction set\". Its elements consist of small connector nodes and struts of various colors. The overall shape of a connector node is that of a non-uniform small rhombicosidodecahedron, except that each face\nis replaced by a small hole. The ends of the struts are designed to fit in the holes of the connector nodes, allowing for syntheses of a variety of structures. The idea of shape-coding the three types of struts was developed by Marc Pelletier and Paul Hildebrandt. To create the \"balls,\" or nodes, Pelletier and Hildebrandt invented a system of 62 hydraulic pins that came together to form a mold. The first connector node emerged from their mold perfectly on April 1, 1992. These parts are made from state-of-the-art ABS plastic injection-mold technology.\nIn the years since 1992, Zometool has widened and enriched its line of products. Much of the development has focused on improving the style or the variety of struts available. Since 1992, the basic design of the connector node has not changed, and hence the various parts released have remained universally compatible. From 1992 until 2000, Zometool produced many kits which included connector nodes and blue, yellow, and red struts. In 2000, Zometool introduced green lines created in France by the architect Fabien Vienne, which were designed to allow the user to build, among other things, models of the regular tetrahedron and octahedron. In 2003, Zometool changed the style of the struts slightly. The struts \"with clicks\" have a different surface texture and they also have longer nibs which allow for a more robust connection between connector node and strut.\n\nThe color of a Zometool strut is associated with its cross section and also with the shape of the hole of the connector node in which it fits. Each blue strut has a rectangular cross section, each yellow strut has a triangular cross section, and each red strut has a pentagonal cross section. The cross section of a green strut is a rhombus, where the ratio of the diagonals is √2. The green struts, fitting in the \"red\" pentagonal holes, are not a part of the 1992 release of Zometool, and, consequently, using them is not as straightforward as the other colors. One may find a variety of colors of connector nodes, but these all have the same purpose and design.\n\nAt their midpoints, each of the yellow and red struts has an apparent twist. At these points, the cross-sectional shape reverses. This design feature forces the connector nodes on the ends of the strut to have the same orientation. Similarly, the cross section of the blue strut is a non-square rectangle, again ensuring that the two nodes on the ends have the same orientation. Instead of a twist, the green struts have two bends which allow them to fit into the pentagonal holes of the connector node.\nAmong other places, the word Zome comes from the term zone. The Zome system allows no more than 61 zones. The cross-sectional shapes correspond to colors, and in turn these correspond to zone colors. Hence the Zome system has 15 blue zones, 10 yellow zones, 6 red zones, and 30 green zones. Two shapes are associated with blue. The blue struts with a rectangular cross section are designed to lie in the same zones as the blue struts, but they are half the length of a blue strut; hence these struts are often called \"half-blue\" (and were originally made in a light blue color). The blue-green struts with a rhombic cross section lie in the same zones as the green struts, but they are designed so that the ratio of a rhombic blue-green strut to a blue strut is 1:1 (as opposed to the green strut's √2:1). It is important to understand that, due to this length ratio, the blue-green struts having a rhombic cross section do not mathematically belong to the Zome system.\n\nHere is a mathematical definition of the Zome system, on which the physical Zometool construction set is based. It is defined in terms of the vector space formula_1, equipped with the standard inner product, also known as 3-dimensional Euclidean space.\n\nLet formula_2 denote the Golden ratio and\nlet formula_3 denote the symmetry group of the configuration of\nvectors formula_4, formula_5, and formula_6.\nThe group formula_3, an example of a Coxeter group, is known as the icosahedral group because it is the symmetry\ngroup of a regular icosahedron having these vectors as its vertices. The subgroup of formula_3 consisting of the elements with determinant 1 (i.e. the rotations) is isomorphic to formula_9.\nDefine the \"standard blue vectors\" as the formula_9-orbit of the vector formula_11.\nDefine the \"standard yellow vectors\" as the formula_9-orbit of the vector formula_13.\nDefine the \"standard red vectors\" as the formula_9-orbit of the vector formula_15.\nA \"strut\" of the Zome System is any vector which can be obtained from the standard\nvectors described above by scaling by any power formula_16, where formula_17 is\nan integer. A \"node\" of the Zome System is any element of the subgroup of formula_1\ngenerated by the struts. Finally, the \"Zome system\" is the set of all pairs formula_19,\nwhere formula_20 is a set of nodes and formula_21 is a set of pairs\nformula_22 such that formula_23 and formula_24 are in formula_20\nand the difference formula_26 is a strut.\nOne may check that there are 30, 20, and 12 standard vectors having the\ncolors blue, yellow, and red, respectively. Correspondingly,\nthe stabilizer subgroup of a blue, yellow, or red strut is isomorphic to the cyclic group of order\n2, 3, or 5, respectively. Hence, one may also describe the blue, yellow, and red\nstruts as \"rectangular\", \"triangular\", and \"pentagonal\", respectively.\nOne may extend the Zome system by adjoining green vectors.\nThe \"standard green vectors\" comprise the formula_9-orbit of the vector formula_28.\nand a \"green strut\" as any vector which can be obtained by scaling a standard\ngreen vector by any integral power formula_16. \nAs above, one may check that there\nare formula_30=60 standard green vectors. \nOne may then enhance the Zome system by including these green struts. Doing this does not affect the set of nodes.\nThe abstract Zome system defined above is significant because of the following fact:\nEvery connected Zome model has a faithful image in the Zome system.\nThe converse of this fact is only partially true, but this is due only to the laws of physics.\nFor example, the radius of a Zometool node is positive (as opposed to a node being a single point mathematically), so one cannot make a Zometool model where two nodes are separated by an arbitrarily\nsmall prescribed distance.\nSimilarly, only a finite number of lengths of struts will ever be manufactured, and a green strut cannot be placed directly adjacent to a red strut or another green strut with which it shares the same hole (even though they are mathematically distinct).\n\nThe Zome system is especially good at modeling 1-dimensional skeleta of highly symmetric objects in 3- and 4-dimensional Euclidean space. The most prominent among these are the five Platonic solids, and the 4-dimensional polytopes related to the 120-cell and the 600-cell. However, the list of mathematical objects which are amenable to Zome is long, and an exhaustive list is not forthcoming. Besides those already mentioned, one may use Zome to model the following mathematical objects:\n\nThe uses of Zome are not restricted to pure mathematics. Other uses include the study of engineering problems, especially steel-truss structures, the study of some molecular, nanotube, and viral structures, and to make soap film surfaces.\n\n \n\nZome buildings:\n\nZomes as art:\n\nZome modelling system: \n\n\"Energy Management Company:\"' \n"}
{"id": "2234993", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234993", "title": "Carterocephalus", "text": "Carterocephalus\n\nCarterocephalus is a Holarctic genus of skipperlings in the skipper family, Hesperiidae.\n\nThe wing colour is yellow, white, dark-brown and black with a variously spotted appearance. The hindwing upperside is dark with clear cut rounded lighter spots. The majority of species are endemic to China.\n\nListed alphabetically:\n\n"}
{"id": "2235023", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2235023", "title": "Lance Inc.", "text": "Lance Inc.\n\nLance is an American brand of snack foods owned by the Snyder's-Lance company headquartered in Charlotte, North Carolina. As of 2018, Snyder's-Lance is owned by Campbell's.\n\nPhilip Lance and Salem Van Every, Lance's son-in-law, started selling single serve snacks in 1913. Two years later, they opened the doors of the Lance Packaging Company in North Carolina. In 1943, Philip Lance Van Every took over leadership of Lance, still a privately held company. Today, Lance, Inc., is a leader in the snack food industry and one of the largest manufacturers and distributors of snack foods in the United States, especially in the South\n\nOn July 22, 2010, Lance announced that it would merge with Snyder's of Hanover. The resulting company, known as Snyder's-Lance Inc., would remain publicly traded under the LNCE symbol. Headquarters would remain in Charlotte. On December 2, Lance shareholders approved the deal that created the country's second largest snack food company.\n\nMany snack cracker products manufactured by Lance are commonly referred to as \"Nabs\", a genericized trademark name for snack crackers that originated with a competitor, the Nabisco company. The term originated in 1924 when the National Biscuit Company (Nabisco) introduced a snack, put in a 5-cent sealed packet called \"Peanut Sandwich Packet\". They soon added a second, \"Sorbetto Sandwich Packet\". These packets allowed salesmen to sell to soda fountains, road stands, milk bars, lunch rooms, news stands etc. Sales increased and in 1928 the company adopted and started to use the name NAB, which immediately won the approval of the public.\n\n"}
{"id": "2235030", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2235030", "title": "WKYS", "text": "WKYS\n\nWKYS (93.9 FM, \"93.9 WKYS\") is a commercial FM radio station licensed to serve Washington, D.C.. The station is owned by Urban One through licensee Urban One Licenses, LLC, and broadcasts an Urban Contemporary format. It is co-owned with WMMJ, WOL, WPRS-FM, WTEM, and WYCB and has its studios located in Silver Spring, Maryland. The station's broadcast tower is located south of Bethesda, Maryland at ().\n\nWKYS is licensed by the FCC to broadcast using HD Radio. The station simulcasts the Urban Talk programming of sister station WOL on its HD2 subchannel. Sputnik Radio English programming is broadcast on its HD3 subchannel.\n\nThe station was first launched as WRC-FM in June 1947 alongside its television partner, WRC-TV channel 4 (originally as WNBW). Both were built from the ground up by NBC, which launched WRC 980 AM 24 years earlier. It inherited the call sign from its AM radio partner based on RCA's ownership of the network. During its early days it carried a jazz format. The transition from the beautiful music format into what is now WKYS occurred when NBC moved the Top 40 format that was on sister station WRC/980 to WKYS to make way for an all news format on the AM station. For a short time in 1975, the two stations simulcast the Top 40 format.\n\nShortly after the simulcast was discontinued, the original AM Top 40 format continued for a short while on the FM station, but later, seeing the coming boom in disco music, WKYS adopted a highly successful disco format in the late 1970s and branded itself as WKYS, \"Disco 93.9\". DJs during the disco era included Donnie Simpson, Jack Harris, Stoney Richards, Joe Cipriano, Eddie Edwards, Barry \"Reazar\" Richards, Bill Bailey, Jeff Leonard, Chuck Davis, Candy Shannon and Max Kinkel.\n\nThe disco format eventually evolved into the present urban contemporary format, WKYS, \"93.9 Kiss FM\" under the guidance of Donnie Simpson.\n\nIn the mid-1980s, WKYS gained competition from WMMJ and WPGC. While that caused a setback in its dominance, WKYS did not suffer a huge of a threat to its ratings and audience share even as it had to rank behind the competition, including WHUR-FM which converted its jazz format to urban AC in 1993. (The D.C. radio market is one of the very few markets to have multiple urban stations on the FM dial for a long time.)\n\nWhen NBC divested all of its radio properties in 1988, WKYS was sold to Albimar Communications. Some years later, amid financial difficulties, the station was sold to Radio One. In the mid-1990s, WKYS was forced to drop the \"Kiss FM\" name and changed it to \"93.9 WKYS\" due to Clear Channel acquiring the rights to the branding itself and enforcing the trademark rights nationwide. However, WKYS reintroduced the \"Kiss FM\" name for a period of time years after with its over-the-air branding, though Clear Channel did not make further claims of legal action. WKYS, however, retired the \"Kiss FM\" moniker later on and simply calls itself \"93.9 WKYS.\"\n\nFrom the 1977 to 1993, WKYS was home to the legendary radio personality Donnie Simpson. The station also once was the flagship of the nationally syndicated \"Russ Parr Morning Show.\" In January 2016, Russ Parr moved to sister WMMJ (to replace Tom Joyner) and was replaced on WKYS by \"The Fam in the Morning.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2235036", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2235036", "title": "Wilde Lake High School", "text": "Wilde Lake High School\n\nWilde Lake High School is a secondary school located in Columbia, Maryland's Village of Wilde Lake, one of 12 public high schools in Howard County.\n\nThe school is centrally located in Howard County and its district borders that of River Hill High School, Marriotts Ridge High School, Centennial High School, Howard High School, Oakland Mills High School, and Atholton High School.\n\nBids were requested by January 1970 for a 1,350-seat school to be built for an estimated $2.6 million. Opened in 1971 as a model school for the nation, it was Columbia's first high school. It had an open doughnut-shaped design with \"open classrooms\" and was a model school for new teaching settings.\n\nIn 1994, the original 910-student building which did not meet current safety standards was demolished. A new $20 million 1,200-seat building with a more traditional style was reconstructed on the same site by Cochran, Stephenson and Donkevoet. The new building, opened in 1996, replicates the open idea, with a central main street, and halls surrounding it and a bridge across the second floor.\n\nThe racial makeup of the population during the 2017–2018 school year was 26.7% White, 43.8% Black or African American, 7.2% Asian, 14.6% Hispanic or Latino, 0% Native American, 0.4% Native Hawaiian or Pacific Islander, and 7.4% two or more races.\n\nWilde Lake has a modern 750-seat theater named for Columbia founder James Rouse, who went by \"Jim\". The theatre has its own separate entrance and is used by both school and community groups. The 12,500-square-foot performance space is also used for community meetings, sales rallies, exhibitions, and business training sessions. The theatre has a total of 739 seats and eight handicapped accessible locations.\n\nWilde Lake High School has a number of sports teams for each season of the academic year, including football, soccer, golf, volleyball, basketball and cross country. The school has won the following state championships:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nIn 2015, Carol Satterwhite, a physical education teacher at the Wilde Lake High School was selected for the National Interscholastic Athletic Administrators Association Hall of Fame.\n\nThe band program consists of groups including the marching band/wind ensemble, concert band, jazz band, and percussion ensemble.\n\nThe wind ensemble is the higher-level band group, while the lower-level group is the concert band. The two bands have two concerts throughout the year; the winter concert, and the spring concert. The winter concert is late November, while the spring concert is mid-April.\n\nThe marching band, consisting of the members of wind ensemble, performs at all of the varsity football team's home games throughout the season. When the football team has an away game, the marching band creates a \"pep-band\" and travels to the opposing team's stadium to support the team. The marching band performs at other various school activities, such as leading the homecoming parade and playing at the pep-rallies.\n\nThe jazz ensemble is showcased in multiple concerts and performances throughout the year. A few of the showcases include the jazz concert in mid-October, another jazz concert in early February, and the Jazz Cabaret in May.\n\n\"The Paw Print\" is an independent publication of Wilde Lake High School.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2235037", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2235037", "title": "Existential graph", "text": "Existential graph\n\nAn existential graph is a type of diagrammatic or visual notation for logical expressions, proposed by Charles Sanders Peirce, who wrote on graphical logic as early as 1882, and continued to develop the method until his death in 1914.\n\nPeirce proposed three systems of existential graphs:\n\"Alpha\" nests in \"beta\" and \"gamma\". \"Beta\" does not nest in \"gamma\", quantified modal logic being more general than put forth by Peirce.\n\nThe syntax is:\nAny well-formed part of a graph is a subgraph.\n\nThe semantics are:\nHence the \"alpha\" graphs are a minimalist notation for sentential logic, grounded in the expressive adequacy of And and Not. The \"alpha\" graphs constitute a radical simplification of the two-element Boolean algebra and the truth functors.\n\nThe \"depth\" of an object is the number of cuts that enclose it.\n\n\"Rules of inference\":\n\n\"Rules of equivalence\":\n\nA proof manipulates a graph by a series of steps, with each step justified by one of the above rules. If a graph can be reduced by steps to the blank page or an empty cut, it is what is now called a tautology (or the complement thereof). Graphs that cannot be simplified beyond a certain point are analogues of the satisfiable formulas of first-order logic.\n\nPeirce notated predicates using intuitive English phrases; the standard notation of contemporary logic, capital Latin letters, may also be employed. A dot asserts the existence of some individual in the domain of discourse. Multiple instances of the same object are linked by a line, called the \"line of identity\". There are no literal variables or quantifiers in the sense of first-order logic. A line of identity connecting two or more predicates can be read as asserting that the predicates share a common variable. The presence of lines of identity requires modifying the \"alpha\" rules of Equivalence.\n\nThe beta graphs can be read as a system in which all formula are to be taken as closed, because all variables are implicitly quantified. If the \"shallowest\" part of a line of identity has even (odd) depth, the associated variable is tacitly existentially (universally) quantified. \n\nZeman (1964) was the first to note that the \"beta\" graphs are isomorphic to first-order logic with equality (also see Zeman 1967). However, the secondary literature, especially Roberts (1973) and Shin (2002), does not agree on just how this is so. Peirce's writings do not address this question, because first-order logic was first clearly articulated only some years after his death, in the 1928 first edition of David Hilbert and Wilhelm Ackermann's \"Principles of Mathematical Logic\".\n\nAdd to the syntax of \"alpha\" a second kind of simple closed curve, written using a dashed rather than a solid line. Peirce proposed rules for this second style of cut, which can be read as the primitive unary operator of modal logic.\n\nZeman (1964) was the first to note that straightforward emendations of the \"gamma\" graph rules yield the well-known modal logics S4 and S5. Hence the \"gamma\" graphs can be read as a peculiar form of normal modal logic. This finding of Zeman's has gone unremarked to this day, but is nonetheless included here as a point of interest.\n\nThe existential graphs are a curious offspring of Peirce the logician/mathematician with Peirce the founder of a major strand of semiotics. Peirce's graphical logic is but one of his many accomplishments in logic and mathematics. In a series of papers beginning in 1867, and culminating with his classic paper in the 1885 \"American Journal of Mathematics\", Peirce developed much of the two-element Boolean algebra, propositional calculus, quantification and the predicate calculus, and some rudimentary set theory. Model theorists consider Peirce the first of their kind. He also extended De Morgan's relation algebra. He stopped short of metalogic (which eluded even \"Principia Mathematica\").\n\nBut Peirce's evolving semiotic theory led him to doubt the value of logic formulated using conventional linear notation, and to prefer that logic and mathematics be notated in two (or even three) dimensions. His work went beyond Euler's diagrams and Venn's 1880 revision thereof. Frege's 1879 \"Begriffsschrift\" also employed a two-dimensional notation for logic, but one very different from Peirce's.\n\nPeirce's first published paper on graphical logic (reprinted in Vol. 3 of his \"Collected Papers\") proposed a system dual (in effect) to the \"alpha\" existential graphs, called the entitative graphs. He very soon abandoned this formalism in favor of the existential graphs. In 1911 Victoria, Lady Welby showed the Existential graphs to C. K. Ogden who felt they could usefully be combined with Welby's thoughts in a \"less abstruse form. Otherwise they attracted little attention during his life and were invariably denigrated or ignored after his death, until the Ph.D. theses by Roberts (1964) and Zeman (1964).\n\n\n\nCurrently, the chronological critical edition of Peirce's works, the \"Writings\", extends only to 1892. Much of Peirce's work on logical graphs consists of manuscripts written after that date and still unpublished. Hence our understanding of Peirce's graphical logic is likely to change as the remaining 23 volumes of the chronological edition appear.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2235040", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2235040", "title": "1882–83 in English football", "text": "1882–83 in English football\n\nThe 1882–1883 season was the 12th season of competitive football in England.\n\n<nowiki>*</nowiki> England score given first\n\nKey\n\n"}
{"id": "2235041", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2235041", "title": "Germany men's national basketball team", "text": "Germany men's national basketball team\n\nThe Germany national basketball team ( or \"Die Mannschaft\") represents Germany in international basketball competition. They are organized by the German Basketball Federation (\"Deutscher Basketball Bund\"), the governing body for basketball in Germany. Currently, Germany is ranked 18th in the FIBA World Rankings.\n\nGermany's biggest achievements to date have been competing in 24 appearances at the EuroBasket winning the gold in 1993 (on home soil), and silver in 2005 respectively. Germany has also made six appearances at the World Cup, with their best finish coming in 2002, when the national team won bronze.\n\nThe team is the successor of the West Germany national basketball team, that represented West Germany in international competition. Between 1955 and 1973, Germany temporarily competed with an East German national basketball team as well.\n\nThe first German presence in the European Basketball Championship was at EuroBasket 1951 in Paris. West Germany finished the preliminary round with a 1–2 record, finishing in third place in their group. They were again 1–2 in the first classification round, but this combined with a three-way tie-breaker put them second in that group. They then lost the classification 9th–12th place game and the 11th/12th game to finish in 12th place in the then 18 team tournament\n\nWest Germany competed again at the EuroBasket 1953 in Moscow. Their 1–2 record in preliminary pool play put them third in their four-team group, relegating them to the classification rounds. In the first round, they again finished in 3rd place with a 1–2 record. They then beat Lebanon 58–56 in the 13th–16th place semifinals to advance to the 13th/14th place game, in which they were defeated by Romania.\n\nAt the EuroBasket 1955 in Budapest, West Germany again was 1–2 in the preliminary round, taking third place in the four-team group to be relegated to the classification tournament. They won one game in the first classification round, losing 3 to take fifth place of the five-team group despite having scored exactly as many points as their opponents over the course of the four games. Their final game was a match-up against Denmark for 17th place, which West Germany won 51–49.\n\nWest Germany competed in Sofia for the EuroBasket 1957. They had no success in the preliminary round, losing all three decisions. They were relegated to the classification round, in which they were able to gather a few victories. They finished the round in the fifth position at 3–4, taking 13th place overall.\n\nAt the EuroBasket 1959, East Germany's national basketball team entered the tournament when their counterpart from West Germany did not qualify. Altogether, East Germany's team only qualified for the EuroBasket five times.\n\nUntil the German reunification in 1990, the team played as the West Germany national basketball team. In decades of competitive basketball, West Germany only had moderate success with a few strong showings in the 1980s. This was because in that time, the NBA made it near-impossible for German internationals to play on both their NBA teams and the national team. For this reason, important players like Detlef Schrempf, Uwe Blab or Christian Welp often were unavailable in big tournaments.\n\nThe win of the 1993 edition of the European Basketball Championship at home in Germany, thanks to superb clutch play of tournament MVP Welp (who had returned from the USA), came totally unexpected. The team won the election to \"Team of the Year\" by the German press. There was a huge wave of enthusiasm, but arguably due to lack of infrastructure and professionalism, tangible results were rare. German basketball stayed in the shadows, the next generation of youth shunning the native league while being glued to the NBA with Michael Jordan. For the next three EuroBaskets, the national team did not come close to repeating the success.\n\nBut then, German basketball got a lucky break when a lanky youth named Dirk Nowitzki tried his luck with the Dallas Mavericks and became a superstar. He created new enthusiasm for basketball in Germany, and in his slipstream, the national team had a renaissance.\n\nIn 2001, Germany played Turkey and was one second away from the final, when Turkey nailed a buzzer beater to send the game into overtime. Turkey won, and demoralized Germany lost the third-place match and ended fourth.\n\nHowever, success at last came in 2002, when Nowitzki inspired Germany to win the bronze medal at the 2002 World Cup. Nowitzki was also named MVP of the tournament\n\nOne year later, however, the team suffered its worst setback in years. In the EuroBasket 2003, which was also the qualifier for the 2004 Olympic Games, the talented, but inexperienced team blundered through a tournament, blowing late-game leads with appalling anti-clutch play. Germany was eliminated early and failed to qualify for the Olympics.\n\nBefore the EuroBasket 2005, expectations were not too high. The German roster was depleted by injury, and remembering the disaster of two years ago, nobody dared to dream of a medal. However, an inspired Dirk Nowitzki powered the team into the finals, eliminating favorites like Spain and Slovenia on its way. In the finals, the team was blown out by Greece, but Nowitzki was named MVP again, and the team won the election to \"Team of the Year\" by the German press again.\n\nAt the 2006 World Cup in Saitama, Germany won most of its first-round matches, only losing to Spain. In the knock-out phase, Germany fought a tough match versus underdogs Nigeria, ending in a 78–77 win when Nigerian star Ime Udoka missed a last-second layup. In the quarter-finals, Germany played top favorite USA, and managed to play an excellent first half, trailing only 39–41. However, led by Carmelo Anthony, the USA outplayed Germany 20–8 in the third quarter and won 65–85. In the consolation round, Germany lost 73–75 against France, losing a lead in the last 18 seconds with two turnovers.\n\nGermany qualified for the 2008 Summer Olympics in Beijing by taking the final spot with the third place in the qualification tournament in Athens, Greece.\n\nTwo years later, Germany qualified for the 2010 World Cup as a wild card. They were eliminated from the competition following an overtime game with Angola, and would finish with a 2–3 record, beating Serbia and Jordan. At the EuroBasket 2011, Germany qualified for the second round with wins over Israel, Italy and Latvia, but in the second round they only managed a win over Turkey, losing to Spain and Lithuania, and failed to reach the knockout stage. Nowitzki competed in both these tournaments and announced his retirement from the team following the 2011 EuroBasket.\nFollowing an unbeaten qualifying campaign, Germany participated in EuroBasket 2013. Drawn in Group A, they kicked off the tournament with a surprise win over France (who would later go on to win the tournament), but then suffered losses to Ukraine, Belgium and Great Britain, the latter two eliminating them from contention. They won their final game over Israel 80-76 but it was not enough, France, Ukraine and Belgium qualified from the group.\n\nGermany then qualified for the next edition of the EuroBasket in 2015, despite a turbulent qualification which saw two defeats to Poland. In September, following qualification, Germany was announced as one of the four new hosts of the tournament following the relocation from Ukraine. In the same month, Dirk Nowitzki announced that he would come out of retirement to play for the team in this tournament. The team was drawn into the Group B, seen by many as the \"Group of Death\", with Spain, Italy, Turkey, Serbia and Iceland. In the end the team put up an competitive effort in defeat. Ending the tournament with a 1–4 record, with all their loses by single digits.\n\nEuroBasket 2017 was the first tournament after Dirk Nowitzki went back into retirement from international play. The national team surprised many with their best performance at the EuroBasket since 2005. Led by rising star Dennis Schröder, they finished second in their preliminary round group with victories against Ukraine, Georgia, and Italy. Their 3–2 record was enough to move on to the knockout stage. There, they pulled an upset against France in a hard-fought tussle 84–81. The next game the team came up short, falling to the eventual bronze medalist Spain 84–72. While the team didn't finish the way they wanted, the stellar efforts of Schröder stood out. Who finished the tournament second in scoring for the second consecutive EuroBasket, this time at (23.7 ppg).\n\nGermany will co-host the EuroBasket 2021, and they have automatically qualified for the 2021 tournament. It will make it the twenty-fifth successive time that Germany has qualified for the event overall. Berlin will host a few group phase matches and will host the final phase matches, while Cologne will host several group phase matches as well.\n\nRoster for the EuroBasket 2021 Qualifiers matches played on 21 and 24 February 2020 against France and Great Britain.\n\nIn Germany, professional basketball is known for developing players whose parents or grandparents are immigrants. The national team routinely uses many players who have family roots in Africa, Eastern Europe, United States or others, but have grown up in Germany, speak fluent German and are native Germans by law. The last point is especially important, as the new FIBA rules prevent the use of more than one \"naturalized\" citizen per country. Famous examples of these allochthonous players are:\n\nWhile most German players develop through the club system, several players over the years have played U.S. college basketball. Past and present national team players who have done so include:\n\n\n\n\n\"source\"\n\n\n1936 Olympic Games: finished 17th among 21 teams\n\n1 Bernhard Cuiper, 2 Robert Duis, 3 Karl Endres, 4 Emil Göing, 5 Otto Kuchenbecker, 6 Emil Lohbeck, 7 Hans Niclaus, 8 Kurt Oleska, 9 Siegfried Reischies, 10 Heinz Steinschulte (Coach: Hugo Murero)\n\n1951 EuroBasket: finished 12th among 17 teams\n\n3 Kurt Siebenhaar, 4 Ulrich Konz, 5 Felix Diefenbach, 6 Wolfgang Heinker, 7 Rudi Hohner, 8 Rudolf Beyerlein, 9 Franz Kronberger, 10 Willi Leissler, 11 Markus Bernhard, 12 Gunter Piontek, 13 Oskar Roth, 14 Theodor Schober, 15 Harald Muller, 16 Arthur Stolz (Coach: Theo Clausen)\n1953 EuroBasket: finished 14th among 17 teams\n\n3 Kurt Siebenhaar, 4 Theodor Schober, 5 Richard Mahrwald, 6 Gunter Piontek, 7 Friedrich Mahlo, 8 Hans Bayer, 10 Hartmut Kruger, 11 Oskar Roth, 12 Rolf Heinker, 13 Gerd Konzag, 14 Rudolf Beyerlein, 15 Richard Griese, 16 Markus Bernhard (Coach: Anton Kartak)\n1955 EuroBasket: finished 17th among 18 teams\n\n4 K. Pfeiffer, 5 L. Waldowski, 6 R. Vogt, 7 Rudolf Beyerlein, 8 E. Friebel, 9 Kurt Siebenhaar, 10 Theodor Schober, 11 Oskar Roth, 12 Arthur Stolz, 13 U. Schmitt, 14 Harald Muller, 15 Richard Griese, 16 K. Brehm (Coach: Anton Kartak)\n1957 EuroBasket: finished 13th among 16 teams\n\n3 Auxer, 4 Lamade, 5 Horst Stein, 6 R. Vogt, 7 Arthur Stolz, 8 Rigauer, 9 Gerhard Biller, 10 Ottmar, 11 Hans Brydniak, 12 Peter, 14 Klaus Schulz, 15 Richard Griese, 16 Scherer (Coach: Theodor Vychodil)\n1961 EuroBasket: finished 16th among 19 teams\n\n4 Hans Gruttner, 5 Horst Stein, 6 Richard Pull, 7 Arthur Stolz, 8 Hannes Neumann, 9 Hans Brydniak, 10 Klaus Weinand, 11 Oskar Roth, 12 Gerhard Biller, 13 Volker Heindel, 14 Klaus Schulz, 15 Jürgen Langhoff (Coach: Branimir Volfer)\n1965 EuroBasket: finished 14th among 16 teams\n\n4 Klaus Urmitzer, 5 Heinz Neef, 6 Hans-Dieter Niedlich, 7 Dietmar Kienast, 8 Hannes Neumann, 9 Bernd Roder, 10 Klaus Weinand, 11 Dieter Sarodnik, 12 Klaus Jungnickel, 13 Udo Wolfram, 14 Klaus Schulz, 15 Jorg Kruger (Coach: Yakovos Bilek)\n1971 EuroBasket: finished 9th among 12 teams\n\n4 Helmut Uhlig, 5 Rolf Dieter, 6 Dieter Pfeiffer, 7 Jurgen Loibl, 8 Gerd Brand, 9 Rainer Pethran, 10 Jochen Pollex, 11 Klaus Urmitzer, 12 Holger Geschwindner, 13 Jürgen Wohlers, 14 Dietrich Keller, 15 Norbert Thimm (Coach: Theodor Schober)\n1972 Olympic Games: finished 12th among 16 teams\n\n4 Helmut Uhlig, 5 Klaus Weinand, 6 Dieter Kuprella, 7 Karl Ampt, 8 Hans-Jörg Krüger, 9 Rainer Pethran, 10 Jochen Pollex, 11 Joachim Linnemann, 12 Holger Geschwindner, 13 Jürgen Wohlers, 14 Dietrich Keller, 15 Norbert Thimm (Coach: Theodor Schober)\n1981 EuroBasket: finished 10th among 12 teams\n\n4 Hans-Gunther Ludwig, 5 Joseph Waniek, 6 Sebastian Brunnert, 7 Matthias Strauss, 8 Jorg Heidrich, 9 Klaus Zander, 10 Michael Pappert, 11 Volkert Asshoff, 12 Holger Arpe, 13 Lutz Wadehn, 14 Armin Sowa, 15 Ingo Mendel (Coach: Terry Schofield)\n1983 EuroBasket: finished 8th among 12 teams\n\n4 Christoph Körner, 5 Frank Hudson, 6 Uwe Brauer, 7 Matthias Strauss, 8 Ulrich Peters, 9 Klaus Zander, 10 Michael Pappert, 11 Armin Sowa, 12 Detlef Schrempf, 13 Uwe Blab, 14 Lutz Wadehn, 15 Gunther Behnke (Coach: Chris Lee)\n1984 Olympic Games: finished 8th among 12 teams\n\n4 Christoph Körner, 5 Vladimir Kadlec, 6 Uwe Brauer, 7 Uwe Sauer, 8 Ulrich Peters, 9 Klaus Zander, 10 Michael Pappert, 11 Armin Sowa, 12 Detlef Schrempf, 13 Uwe Blab, 14 Ingo Mendel, Christian Welp (Coach: Ralph Klein)\n1985 EuroBasket: finished 5th among 12 teams\n\n4 Ulrich Peters, 5 Stephan Baeck, 6 Christoph Körner, 7 Uwe Sauer, 8 Michael Jackel, 9 Christian Welp, 10 Uwe Blab, 11 Armin Sowa, 12 Detlef Schrempf, 13 Lutz Wadehn, 14 Burkhard Schröder, 15 Gunther Behnke (Coach: Ralph Klein)\n1986 FIBA World Cup: finished 16th among 24 teams\n\n4 Ralf Risse, 5 Armin Andres, 6 Michael Koch, 7 Jan Villwock, 8 Rainer Greunke, 9 Holger Arpe, 10 Christian Welp, 11 Armin Sowa, 12 Hansi Gnad, 13 Lutz Wadehn, 14 Gunther Behnke, 15 Burkhard Schröder (Coach: Ralph Klein)\n1987 EuroBasket: finished 6th among 12 teams\n\n4 Armin Andres, 5 Christoph Körner, 6 Michael Koch, 7 Henning Harnisch, 8 Jens Kujawa, 9 Christian Welp, 10 Sven Meyer, 11 Michael Pappert, 12 Hansi Gnad, 13 Lutz Wadehn, 14 Gunther Behnke, 15 Michael Jackel (Coach: Ralph Klein)\n\n1992 Olympic Games: finished 7th among 12 teams\n\n4 Gunther Behnke, 5 Henrik Rödl, 6 Armin Andres, 7 Stephan Baeck, 8 Arndt Neuhaus, 9 Henning Harnisch, 10 Uwe Blab, 11 Detlef Schrempf, 12 Hansi Gnad, 13 Kai Nurnberger, 14 Jens Kujawa, 15 Michael Jackel (Coach: Svetislav Pešić)\n1993 EuroBasket: finished 1st among 16 teams\n\n4 Moritz Kleine-Brockhoff, 5 Henrik Rödl, 6 Michael Koch, 7 Christian Welp (MVP), 8 Teoman Öztürk, 9 Henning Harnisch, 10 Gunther Behnke, 11 Stephan Baeck, 12 Hansi Gnad, 13 Kai Nürnberger, 14 Jens Kujawa, 15 Michael Jackel (Coach: Svetislav Pešić)\n1994 FIBA World Cup: finished 12th among 16 teams\n\n4 Henning Harnisch, 5 Michael Koch, 6 Sascha Hupmann, 7 Henrik Rödl, 8 Hansi Gnad, 9 Gunther Behnke, 10 Kai Nurnberger, 11 Patrick King, 12 Detlef Musch, 13 Arndt Neuhaus, 14 Oliver Herkelmann, 15 Mike Knorr (Coach: Dirk Bauermann)\n1995 EuroBasket: finished 11th among 14 teams\n\n4 Ingo Freyer, 5 Henrik Rödl, 6 Michael Koch, 7 Detlef Musch, 8 Denis Wucherer, 9 Christian Welp, 10 Teoman Öztürk, 11 Patrick King, 12 Hansi Gnad, 13 Kai Nürnberger, 14 Ademola Okulaja, 15 Michael Knörr (Coach: Vladislav Lučić)\n1997 EuroBasket: finished 12th among 16 teams\n\n4 Henrik Rödl, 5 Jörg Lütcke, 6 Gerrit Terdenge, 7 Vladimir Bogojević, 8 Denis Wucherer, 9 Henning Harnisch, 10 Sascha Hupmann, 11 Jürgen Malbeck, 12 Patrick Femerling, 13 Ademola Okulaja, 14 Tim Nees, 15 Alexander Kühl (Coach: Vladislav Lučić)\n1999 EuroBasket: finished 7th among 16 teams\n\n4 Henrik Rödl, 5 Jörg Lütcke, 6 Kai Nürnberger, 7 Vladimir Bogojević, 8 Denis Wucherer, 9 Drazan Tomic, 10 Patrick Femerling, 11 Gerrit Terdenge, 12 Stephen Arigbabu, 13 Ademola Okulaja, 14 Tim Nees, 15 Dirk Nowitzki (Coach: Henrik Dettmann)\n2001 EuroBasket: finished 4th among 16 teams\n\n4 Mithat Demirel, 5 Ademola Okulaja, 6 Robert Garrett, 7 Marko Pešić, 8 Stefano Garris, 9 Drazan Tomic, 10 Marvin Willoughby, 11 Stipo Papić, 12 Stephen Arigbabu, 13 Patrick Femerling, 14 Dirk Nowitzki, 15 Shawn Bradley (Coach: Henrik Dettmann)\n2002 FIBA World Cup: finished 3rd among 16 teams\n\n4 Mithat Demirel, 5 Ademola Okulaja, 6 Jörg Lütcke, 7 Marko Pešić, 8 Pascal Roller, 9 Henrik Rödl, 10 Misan Haldin, 11 Stefano Garris, 12 Stephen Arigbabu, 13 Patrick Femerling, 14 Dirk Nowitzki (MVP), 15 Robert Maras (Coach: Henrik Dettmann)\n2003 EuroBasket: finished 11th among 16 teams\n\n4 Mithat Demirel, 5 Ademola Okulaja, 6 Jörg Lütcke, 7 Marko Pešić, 8 Sven Schultze, 9 Steffen Hamann, 10 Misan Haldin, 11 Stefano Garris, 12 Stephen Arigbabu, 13 Patrick Femerling, 14 Dirk Nowitzki, 15 Robert Maras (Coach: Henrik Dettmann)\n2005 EuroBasket: finished 2nd among 16 teams\n\n4 Mithat Demirel, 5 Robert Garrett, 6 Demond Greene, 7 Marko Pešić, 8 Denis Wucherer, 9 Pascal Roller, 10 Misan Haldin, 11 Sven Schultze, 12 Stephen Arigbabu, 13 Patrick Femerling, 14 Dirk Nowitzki (MVP), 15 Robert Maras (Coach: Dirk Bauermann)\n2006 FIBA World Cup: finished 8th among 24 teams\n\n4 Mithat Demirel, 5 Ademola Okulaja, 6 Sven Schultze, 7 Robert Garrett, 8 Johannes Herber, 9 Steffen Hamann, 10 Demond Greene, 11 Pascal Roller, 12 Guido Grünheid, 13 Patrick Femerling, 14 Dirk Nowitzki, 15 Jan Jagla (Coach: Dirk Bauermann)\n2007 EuroBasket: finished 5th among 16 teams\n\n4 Mithat Demirel, 5 Ademola Okulaja, 6 Stephen Arigbabu, 7 Robert Garrett, 8 Johannes Herber, 9 Steffen Hamann, 10 Demond Greene, 11 Pascal Roller, 12 Guido Grünheid, 13 Patrick Femerling, 14 Dirk Nowitzki, 15 Jan Jagla (Coach: Dirk Bauermann)\n2008 Olympic Games: finished 10th among 12 teams\n\n4 Tim Ohlbrecht, 5 Philip Zwiener, 6 Sven Schultze, 7 Robert Garrett, 8 Konrad Wysocki, 9 Steffen Hamann, 10 Demond Greene, 11 Pascal Roller, 12 Chris Kaman, 13 Patrick Femerling, 14 Dirk Nowitzki, 15 Jan Jagla (Coach: Dirk Bauermann)\n2009 EuroBasket: finished 11th among 16 teams\n\n4 Lucca Staiger, 5 Heiko Schaffartzik, 6 Sven Schultze, 7 Tim Ohlbrecht, 8 Konrad Wysocki, 9 Steffen Hamann, 10 Demond Greene, 11 Tibor Pleiß, 12 Elias Harris, 13 Patrick Femerling, 14 Robin Benzing, 15 Jan Jagla (Coach: Dirk Bauermann)\n2010 FIBA World Cup: finished 17th among 24 teams\n\n4 Lucca Staiger, 5 Heiko Schaffartzik, 6 Per Günther, 7 Tim Ohlbrecht, 8 Christopher McNaughton, 9 Steffen Hamann, 10 Demond Greene, 11 Tibor Pleiß, 12 Elias Harris, 13 Philipp Schwethelm, 14 Robin Benzing, 15 Jan Jagla (Coach: Dirk Bauermann)\n2011 EuroBasket: finished 9th among 24 teams\n\n14 Dirk Nowitzki, 12 Chris Kaman, 15 Jan-Hendrik Jagla, 9 Tim Ohlbrecht, 7 Sven Schultze, 6 Steffen Hamann, 4 Robin Benzing, 8 Heiko Schaffartzik, 11 Tibor Pleiß, 13 Lucca Staiger, 5 Johannes Herber, 10 Philipp Schwethelm (Coach: Dirk Bauermann)\n2013 EuroBasket: finished 17th among 24 teams\n\n4 Alex King, 5 Niels Giffey, 6 Per Günther, 7 Philip Zwiener, 8 Heiko Schaffartzik (C), 9 Karsten Tadda, 10 Lucca Staiger, 11 Tibor Pleiß, 12 Robin Benzing, 13 Bastian Doreth, 14 Andreas Seiferth, 15 Maik Zirbes (Coach: Frank Menz)\n2015 EuroBasket: finished 18th among 24 teams\n\n4 Maodo Lô, 5 Niels Giffey, 7 Alex King, 8 Heiko Schaffartzik (C), Karsten Tadda, 9 Tibor Pleiß, 12 Robin Benzing, 14 Dirk Nowitzki, 17 Dennis Schröder, 21 Paul Zipser, 25 Anton Gavel, 77Johannes Voigtmann (Coach: Chris Fleming)\n2017 EuroBasket: finished 6th among 24 teams\n\n4 Maodo Lô, 7 Johannes Voigtmann, 8 Lucca Staiger, 9 Karsten Tadda, 10 Daniel Theis, 12 Robin Benzing (C), 17 Dennis Schröder, 18 İsmet Akpınar, 22 Danilo Barthel, 32 Johannes Thiemann, 33 Patrick Heckmann, 55 Isaiah Hartenstein (Coach: Chris Fleming)\n2019 FIBA World Cup: finished 18th among 32 teams\n\n4 Maodo Lô, 5 Niels Giffey, 7 Johannes Voigtmann, 8 İsmet Akpınar, 10 Daniel Theis, 12 Robin Benzing (C), 17 Dennis Schröder, 21 Paul Zipser, 22 Danilo Barthel, 24 Maxi Kleber, 32 Johannes Thiemann, 42 Andreas Obst (Coach: Henrik Rödl)\n\n2014, 2015: Peak\n\n2014, 2015: ING DiBa\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2235042", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2235042", "title": "Pandemonium (The Time album)", "text": "Pandemonium (The Time album)\n\nPandemonium is a 1990 album by The Time. Much like the three previous albums, the album consists of music in the funk-pop or ballad genre, although this album breaks the Time's six-song album tradition. The album is a tie-in with the film \"Graffiti Bridge\" and several songs from the album appear in the film. According to biographer Matt Thorne, Prince co-wrote \"Donald Trump (Black Version)\". \n\nThe album was certified Gold by the RIAA and \"Jerk Out\" became one of the band's biggest singles. The second single, \"Chocolate\" didn't fare as well.\n\n\n\"The songs' obsessions with sex, food and time scream 'concept',\" remarked Michele Kirsch in a 4 out of 5 review for \"Select\", \"but only in a fun, sexy, blaxploitation movie soundtrack kind of way. Lots of background jive talk, chat up lines and bogus off-tape comments make you feel like you're gatecrashing a party at the point where everybody pairs off to go to his or her place… Bastard sons of George Clinton, take a bow.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2235068", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2235068", "title": "Ohio Theatre (Columbus, Ohio)", "text": "Ohio Theatre (Columbus, Ohio)\n\nThe Ohio Theatre is a performing arts center on Capitol Square in Downtown Columbus, Ohio. Known as the \"Official Theatre of the State of Ohio\", the historic 1928 movie palace was saved from demolition in 1969 and completely restored. It was declared a National Historic Landmark in 1977 as one of the nation's finest surviving grand theaters. \n\nThe Ohio Theatre is owned and operated by the non-profit arts management organization CAPA (The Columbus Association for the Performing Arts), which was originally formed to save the theater in 1969.\n\nLocated in Downtown Columbus on the site of the old Columbus City Hall, the Ohio Theatre was designed by the noted theatre architect Thomas W. Lamb. Of all of the theaters he designed, he noted the Ohio as one of his most successful. He intended to separate patrons from their daily lives by creating a luxurious fantasy atmosphere inside. It was decorated and furnished by New York designer Anne Dornin. Each room had a theme. Dornin's favorite was the \"Africa Corner\" which she decorated with authentic pieces from her travels. The theatre also featured lavish men's and women's lounge areas including separate smoking and telephone rooms.\n\nBuilt by the Loew's theater chain in partnership with United Artists the 2,779 (originally 3,096) seat Spanish Baroque movie palace opened on March 17, 1928. The first film shown was \"The Divine Woman\", a silent film with Greta Garbo. The Ohio featured its own orchestra and Robert-Morton theatre organ (still in use today). In addition to movies, deluxe variety shows graced the stage, with performers that included Fred Waring, Milton Berle, Ray Bolger, Buddy Ebsen, Ginger Rogers, Conrad Nagel, and Jack Benny.\n\nSound films were introduced at Loew's Ohio in August 1928. The great popularity of \"talking pictures\" reduced the need for theater chains to offer expensive live entertainment along with the films. Regular stage shows were discontinued in 1933 and the orchestra was disbanded. However organist Roger Garrett continued to perform daily at the \"Mighty Morton\" and occasional live appearances by stars including Judy Garland and Jean Harlow were featured on the stage. The theater was the premiere area showcase for the films of MGM and other studios and in the late 1930s double features became the norm. Programs ran for one week with the rare exception of huge hits like \"Gone with the Wind\", which ran for three.\n\nDuring World War II, movie theaters were busier than ever and the Ohio was no exception, adding late night showings for war plant shift workers. War bonds were heavily promoted and sold in the theater's lobby. In 1944, when Roger Garrett was inducted into the army, live organ music was discontinued.\n\nIn the late 1940s when television became popular, movie attendance gradually dropped as audiences lost the weekly moviegoing habit. Attendance further decreased when residents began moving from the city to the suburbs. The decreased profits led to a decreased staff and roped off seating. However the Ohio continued showing premium films until it closed. The James Bond films were especially popular for the theater in the 1960s. In 1966, members of the American Theatre Organ Society began restoring the Robert Morton and playing the organ for shows again.\n\nLoew's closed the theater on February 24, 1969; the final film was \"Play Dirty\" with Michael Caine. A local development company called the 55 East State Company bought the property with plans to construct an office tower on the site of the Ohio and the adjacent Grand Theatre. Members of the community rallied to raise money to purchase an option to acquire the structure to gain time to raise additional funds and keep the theater open. Some of the non-essential interior items were sold to raise money to buy the property. Under the leadership of architect Robert Karlsberger and others, the non-profit Columbus Association for the Performing Arts (CAPA) was formed to raise money and develop a plan for the future of the theater. All the while live performances were held inside to raise money and give the public a chance to see the theater in use.\n\nCAPA was able to use the groundswell of popular interest in the theater to convince business and government leaders to support saving the theater. In late 1969 money was raised to purchase the Ohio and it immediately began presenting shows and concerts under the management of CAPA. These concerts included rock musicians like The Grateful Dead, Frank Zappa, and Alice Cooper. The Columbus Symphony Orchestra badly needed a permanent home and began performing at the Ohio in the fall of 1969, enjoying an increase in ticket sales thanks to excitement about the new venue.\n\nThe building was completely restored to its original appearance in stages throughout the 1970s. The adjacent Grand Theatre was demolished and its lot was developed at first for parking. In 1984, the space was used to build an addition to the theatre, the Galbreath Pavilion, named for real estate developer John W. Galbreath and his wife Dorothy. The pavilion expanded lobby space and added offices and rehearsal rooms. The stage was gradually modernized to allow for large theatrical performances by adding a crossover passage, supplemental dressing rooms and an expanded orchestra pit. In the 1980s as the surrounding area was cleared for development of an urban shopping mall, CAPA obtained the rights to expand the stage, doubling its size, into the alleyway behind the theater. The theatre has also added dressing rooms and a loading dock to allow the Ohio to present large touring Broadway musicals.\n\nThe Ohio Theatre was one of the earliest restorations of a movie palace for use as a performing arts center and served as a model for many later historic renovation projects in the United States. Unlike many remaining 1920s theaters designed by Lamb and others, the Ohio still very closely resembles its original appearance with few alterations. Today it is the home of the Columbus Symphony Orchestra, BalletMet, the Broadway Series, Opera Columbus, and the CAPA Summer Movie Series.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2235074", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2235074", "title": "Moss Twomey", "text": "Moss Twomey\n\nMaurice (Moss) Twomey (; 10 June 1897 – October 1978) was an Irish republican and chief of staff of the Irish Republican Army (IRA).\n\nTwomey was born in 1897 in Clondulane, near Fermoy, County Cork, Ireland and was educated by the Congregation of Christian Brothers. The son of a labourer at Hallinan’s Flour Mills in the town, Twomey went to work there at the age of 14 where he rose to the position of works manager. In 1914 he became active in the Irish Volunteers.\n\nBy 1918 he was adjutant of the Fermoy Battalion and a year later became an adjutant of the Cork No. 2 Brigade. He took part in an ambush of British troops in Fermoy in September 1919, one of the first attacks on British soldiers in Ireland since the 1916 Easter Rising and one of the first of the Irish War of Independence.\n\nDuring 1920 he helped direct IRA intelligence in his brigade area. He was staff commandant of Liam Lynch’s 1st Southern Division when he was captured and imprisoned on Spike Island during 1921. He managed to escape from the prison by rowing boat along with Dick Barrett, Tom Crofts and Bill Quirke.\n\nTwomey opposed the Anglo-Irish Treaty of December 1921, although he was critical of the tactics adopted by the anti-Treaty forces headquartered in the Four Courts - he was influenced by Oscar Traynor's opinion that garrison would destroy the Republic Éireann - Dublin during June 1922. Liam Lynch was a figure from the old IRA, dedicated to the cause, but also determined to fight. Four Courts showed the leadership that they were out of touch with the reality of the awesome power of artillery. Although reunited in adversity, the factional splits had not masked the changing nature political changes. Twomey concurred with Liam Mellows that if a government was to be formed in the interest of labour it must be a republic.\n\nDuring the Irish Civil War, Twomey became adjutant general on Lynch’s staff and was with the general when he was killed on the Knockmealdowns mountains in April 1923. Twomey was imprisoned in the same month in Dublin.\n\nDuring 1924 he became involved in the reorganisation of the IRA, inspecting its southern divisions that summer and its northern units during 1925. First elected onto the IRA Executive at the November 1925 IRA General Army Convention, he became a full-time IRA activist. He disguised this by describing his profession as “journalist”, justified somewhat by his regular contributions to the IRA weekly newspaper, \"An Phoblacht\". During \"1926\" he was acting IRA chief of staff in the absence of Andrew Cooney, and in 1927, he was confirmed in that position.\n\nIn the summer of 1925, the anti-treaty IRA had sent a delegation led by Pa Murray to the Soviet Union for a personal meeting with Joseph Stalin, in the hopes of gaining Soviet finance and weaponry assistance. A secret pact was agreed where the IRA would spy on the United States and the United Kingdom and pass information to Red Army military intelligence in New York City and London in return for £500 a month. The pact was originally approved by Frank Aiken, who left soon after, before being succeeded by Cooney and Twomey who kept up the secret espionage relationship.\n\nTwomey was not himself an ideological Marxist-Leninist (though there were some communists in the IRA at this time such as Peadar O'Donnell), he saw the arrangement as purely utilitarian and regarded the Soviets as \"shifty\" and \"out to exploit us.\" Nevertheless, the IRA passed specifications of British \"submarine detection sonar and aeroplane engines for bombers, military journals and manuals, and gas masks\" to the Soviets. While the IRA's man in America \"Mr. Jones\", passed \"reports of the army’s chemical weapons service, state-of-the-art gas masks, machine-gun and aeroplane engine specifications, and reports from the navy, air service and army\" to the Red Army intelligence.\n\nAlthough not a Marxist-Leninist, Moss Twomey was considered to be a Socialist, albeit one who put practicality before ideology. Twomey's policy as Chief of Staff was to allow individual members of the IRA to join left-wing groups, but not to let the IRA itself become attached to a political party. Twomey simultaneously feared to undermine support for Fianna Fáil and thus hand power back towards Cumann na nGaedheal, but also feared the IRA being seen as attached directly to Fianna Fáil. \n\nIn 1930, Twomey married Kathleen MacLaughlin of Donegal and had two children in the early 1930s. \n\nIn 1931 Twomey tried to quell different factions within the IRA (those seeking to establish a social programme vs those against it) by permitting IRA members to create Saor Eire, a far-left political party. However, Saor Eire quickly found itself under attack from both Cumann na nGaedheal and the Catholic Church for being a communist organisation, with the IRA painted as guilty by association. Simultaneously, the Cumann na nGaedhael government gave itself emergency powers and began arresting IRA members. Both Twomey and the IRA decided that in order to hold off Cumann na nGaedheal, they would need to rally around Fianna Fáil. \n\nIn February 1932 Cumann na nGaedhael called a snap election, hoping to catch both the IRA and Fianna Fáil on the backfoot. However, Fianna Fáil were able to secure victory. To the surprise of many, Cumann na nGaedhael choose to respect the result of the vote and stood aside to let Fianna Fáil into power. Initially, many Republicans and members of the IRA were overjoyed with the result. At first Fianna Fail seem to signal goodwill to the IRA by releasing many IRA prisoners. However, it quickly dawned upon the IRA that Fianna Fáil were not going to declare a Republic, and this put them in an awkward spot. A week after Fianna Fáil came to power, an internal document produced by the IRA leadership asked two fundamental questions: \"can Fianna Fáil’s methods and policies achieve the Republic?\", to which they answered No, and \"can the IRA launch a successful revolution against the Fianna Fáil Government?\", to which they also answered No. Both Twomey and the IRA were unsure how to proceed. In Twomey's own words \"nobody had visualised a Free State which Republicans were not supposed to attack\". \n\nFollowing the election of Fianna Fáil, Tom Barry and Twomey clashed over the direction going forward. Barry wished to see Saor Eire ended (believing its policies never gain mass support, and in fact, this made Saor Eire an undemocratic concept) and for the IRA to reconcile with Fianna Fáil. Twomey instead thought that the social programme of Saor Eire could and would gain democratic support. \n\nOn 18 June 1936 the Fianna Fáil government banned the IRA. The following day Twomey was tried and jailed for three years for membership of the newly proscribed organisation. Under the IRA constitution, his tenure as IRA chief of staff ended automatically upon his arrest. He was imprisoned in the Curragh from 1936 to 1938. During his period of imprisonment his family depended heavily on money sent to them by Joseph McGarrity of Clan na Gael, a US-based IRA fundraising organisation. On his release, Twomey became adjutant general on Seán Russell's army council. He travelled to Britain and inspected the IRA's units there. Twomey concluded that the IRA was in no position to launch a campaign and withdrew from IRA activity. In 1939 he opened a newsagents and confectioners in Dublin's O'Connell Street.\n\nFollowing a crackdown on the IRA by Éamon de Valera's government, he was interned for two weeks during 1940. He remained close to the IRA, giving assistance to republicans deported from Britain and mediating in disputes between IRA factions. While he did not take an active role in politics after the 1940s, he did speak at a number of republican commemorations, most notably at the restoration of Wolfe Tone's grave at Bodenstown in 1971. He never claimed an IRA pension from the Irish government or gave an account of his record to the Bureau of Military History, set up to record the recollections of participants involved in the struggle against British rule.\n\nHe was badly injured in an accident in 1971 and was deeply affected by the death of his wife Kathleen Twomey in April 1978. Twomey himself died in October of that year. The presence at his funeral of members of Fianna Fáil and Fine Gael, Sinn Féin The Workers’ Party and Provisional Sinn Féin, the Irish labour movement and old IRA comrades from the 1930s was evidence of his enduring popularity.\n\nTwomey's papers from his period as IRA chief of staff, consisting of 28 boxes, are now kept at the Archives Department of University College Dublin.\n\n"}
{"id": "2235076", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2235076", "title": "KMLM-DT", "text": "KMLM-DT\n\nKMLM-DT, virtual channel 42 (UHF digital channel 15), is a religious television station licensed to Odessa, Texas, United States, serving as the flagship station of God's Learning Channel. The station is owned by Prime Time Christian Broadcasting. KMLM's studios are located in Odessa, and its transmitter is located near Gardendale. KMLM also operates satellite station KPCB-DT (virtual and UHF digital channel 17) in Snyder, with transmitter north of the city.\n\nKMLM was formerly relayed on the following translator stations:\n\n"}
{"id": "2235083", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2235083", "title": "Joseph Cotter", "text": "Joseph Cotter\n\nJoseph Henry Cotter (January 1, 1872—September 30, 1937) was a Canadian politician in the Legislative Assembly of Manitoba from 1927 to 1932. He was a member of the Conservative Party.\n\nCotter was born in Milan, Italy, the son of a Church of England rector in Ireland. He was educated at private schools in the south of Ireland, and came to Canada in 1890. Cotter worked as an accountant, and was for fifteen years the chief accountant of Winnipeg, Manitoba. Active in freemasonry, Cotter was the first master of the St. James Lodge 121.\n\nHe served as a school trustee from 1912 to 1915, was a councillor in the municipality of St. James in 1924, and served as its reeve in 1925. From 1925 to 1927, he was the representative of St. James on the Winnipeg Municipality Suburban Board. He served as reeve of St. James a second time in 1928-29.\n\nFrom 1916 to 1919, Cotter served overseas in World War I as a lieutenant with the 108th Battalion. He was later transferred to the C.A.P.C.\n\nHe was elected to the Manitoba legislature in the 1927 provincial election, defeating Independent Labour Party candidate Richard B. Russell. The Conservatives became the leading opposition party after this election, and Cotter served with his party on the opposition benches. He did not run for re-election in 1932.\n\nHe died at St. James, Manitoba on 30 September 1937.\n"}
{"id": "2235089", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2235089", "title": "Spectator", "text": "Spectator\n\nSpectator or The Spectator may refer to:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2235095", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2235095", "title": "New Year's Day (U2 song)", "text": "New Year's Day (U2 song)\n\n\"New Year's Day\" is a song by Irish rock band U2. It is the third track on their 1983 album \"War\" and was released as the album's lead single in January 1983. With lyrics written about the Polish Solidarity movement, \"New Year's Day\" is driven by Adam Clayton's distinctive bassline and the Edge's piano and guitar playing. It was the band's first UK hit single, peaking at number 10, and was also their first international hit, reaching for number 9 in Norway, number 11 on the Dutch Top 40, number 17 in Sweden, and number 53 on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 in the United States.\n\nIn 2010, \"Rolling Stone\" magazine placed the single at number 435 on their list of \"The 500 Greatest Songs of All Time\". This song was also included in the Pitchfork 500.\n\nThe UK cover features a photograph of Peter Rowen, who grew up near U2 lead vocalist Bono in Ireland.\n\nThe lyric had its origins in a love song from Bono to his wife, but was subsequently reshaped and inspired by the Polish Solidarity movement. The bassline stemmed from bassist Adam Clayton trying to figure out the chords to the Visage song \"Fade to Grey\" during a soundcheck.\n\nIn 1983, Bono said of the song, \"It would be stupid to start drawing up battle lines, but I think the fact that 'New Year's Day' made the Top Ten indicated a disillusionment among record buyers. I don't think 'New Year's Day' was a pop single, certainly not in the way that Mickie Most might define a pop single as something that lasts three minutes and three weeks in the chart. I don't think we could have written that kind of song.\"\n\n\"New Year's Day\" is U2's seventh most frequently performed live song, with the Edge switching back and forth between piano and guitar during the song. It has been a standard on every U2 tour since its debut on 1 December 1982 at the first show of the War Tour's Pre-Tour, however the recent Innocence + Experience tour only featured three performances of the song for the entire tour. During the 1980s, the Edge used a Fender Stratocaster to perform this song, along with a Yamaha CP70 electric grand piano. During the 1990s and 2000s (decade), he has alternated between a Gibson Les Paul Custom and Les Paul Standard. The Les Paul the Edge used to write this song was sold for charity. Up until the Elevation Tour, Clayton normally used a chorus effect on his bass guitar for this song live. In the \"Top of the Pops\" performance, Bono is seen playing guitar.\n\n\"New Year's Day\" has appeared on many of U2's concert video releases including 1983's \"\", \"\", \"\", \"\", \"\", \"Live from Paris\", and \"U2 3D\".\n\nThe B-side of \"New Year's Day\", \"Treasure (Whatever Happened to Pete the Chop?)\", was never performed live. However, an early version known simply as \"Pete the Chop\" was played at some concerts in 1980.\n\nDuring the Vertigo Tour at Silesian Stadium in Poland a quite remarkable example of fan action occurred. During \"New Year's Day\", the lower sections of the crowd waved red coloured items while other sections waved white, creating the Polish flag and stunning the band. This was repeated during the U2 360° Tour at the same venue.\n\nThe video was one of their first to see heavy rotation on MTV. It was filmed in Sälen, Sweden in December 1982 and directed by Meiert Avis. The band only appeared in the performance scenes of the video as it was filmed in the dead of the Swedish winter. U2 guitarist Edge revealed in the official U2 biography that the four people riding on horseback in the video that appeared to be the four U2 members were in fact four Swedish teenage girls disguised as the members of U2 riding on horseback with masks over their faces. This was done as the band were frozen from shooting the video in sub-freezing temperatures the day before. Their biography states that Bono refused to wear any headgear despite the cold weather and had a lot of trouble mouthing the lyrics. The video also features footage of Soviet troops advancing in winter during World War II.\n\nThe video made its debut UK television broadcast on Friday 31 December 1982, on the Channel 4 music programme \"The Tube\".\n\nU2 allowed free-of-charge use of this song in a spot prepared by the European Commission. This clip published on YouTube shows a transformation of Poland in the last 20 years mixed with short scenes from today's Warsaw seen from a perspective of a 20-year-old woman.\n\n\nIn 2001, dance act Musique released a remix of the song, \"New Year's Dub\". The remix charted in some European countries, including in the UK and in Ireland, where it peaked at no. 15 and no. 13, respectively. It also charted in Australia, where it peaked at no. 74.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2235098", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2235098", "title": "ILC Dover", "text": "ILC Dover\n\nILC Dover, LP (also known as ILC) is an American special engineering development and manufacturing company based in Frederica, Delaware. ILC specializes in the use of high-performance flexible materials, serving the aerospace, personal protection, and pharmaceutical industries.\n\nBest known for making space suits for NASA, ILC outfitted every United States astronaut in the Apollo program, including the twelve that walked on the moon. ILC also designed and manufactured the Space Suit Assembly portion of the Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU), worn by astronauts during performance of extra-vehicular activity (EVA) on Space Shuttle missions and on the International Space Station.\n\nOther ILC products include the airbag landing devices for Mars Pathfinder and Mars Exploration Rover (MER) missions; lighter-than-air vehicles, including airships, aerostats, and zeppelins; chemical, biological, radiological, and nuclear (CBRN) masks and hood systems; and flexible powder-containment solutions for the pharmaceutical industry.\n\nILC Dover initially formed as a branch of the International Latex Corporation, the company founded in 1932 by Abram Spanel and later known as Playtex best known for manufacture of women's undergarments. The International Latex Corporation supported American efforts in World War II with latex products such as attack boats, life rafts, and canteens. In 1947, the International Latex Corporation split into four divisions, one of which, the Metals Division, eventually became ILC Dover.\n\nLocated at that time in Dover, Delaware, ILC's earliest work was on high-altitude pressure helmets and high-altitude pressure suits for the U.S Navy and Air Force. In 1965, ILC (then known as the Government and Industrial Division of the International Latex Corporation) was awarded the prime contract for the Apollo Lunar Space Suit, based on its unique approach to designing flexible joints in air filled suits. ILC successfully designed and manufactured the suit worn by astronauts in the Apollo program, including Neil Armstrong during the first moonwalk. By 1969, ILC's workforce expanded to 900 employees as it supported the space program through production of Apollo space suits and a sun shield to protect Skylab, the first U.S. space station.\nIn 1974, the Skylab program ended, and ILC faced an immediate need to diversify their product offerings. That same year, ILC delivered its first aerostat to the U.S. Air Force for use at Cudjoe Key Air Force Station. Subsequently, they entered the field of personal protective equipment, paving the way for development of industrial protection suits, such as the Chemturion Suit line. In later years, their development of protective equipment expanded into type classified military chemical, biological, radiological, and nuclear (CBRN) masks and hood systems (for example, the M43, M40, MBU-19/P). The M40/M42 masks became the standard field mask of the U.S. Army, and, as of 2010, over two million had been produced and sold. Hamilton Standard, of Windsor Locks, CT was contracted to oversee ILC's suit manufacture due to ILC's inexperience with federal government contracts.\n\nIn 1977, ILC Dover, in conjunction with Hamilton Standard, began development and manufacture of the Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU), the suit worn by astronauts during Space Shuttle and Space Station extra-vehicular activity (EVA). ILC continued its support of the space program, while expanding its personal protection and lighter-than-air (LTA) vehicle lines.\n\nIn 1994 and 1995, ILC was awarded contracts with the German company Zeppelin Luftschifftechnik GmbH and the American Blimp Corporation for production of envelopes for each company. Over the following decade, ILC's production of LTA vehicles continued, and in 2001, ILC, in collaboration with TCOM and Uretek, developed and manufactured the world's largest pressurized LTA vehicle for CargoLifter in Brand, Germany.\n\nIn 1994, NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory contracted ILC to develop and manufacture the airbag landing system for the Mars Pathfinder Mission, which successfully cushioned Pathfinder's landing on July 4, 1997. In 2003, ILC's airbag system enabled the safe landing of the twin rovers, Spirit and Opportunity, during the Mars Exploration Rover (MER) Missions.\n\nIn the 1990s ILC entered the pharmaceutical industry with the design and production of flexible containment systems, used to improve operator safety and ensure product purity during the manufacturing processing of potent pharmaceutical agents.\n\nSince the beginning of the Apollo Program, ILC has been the designer and producer of the space suit pressure garment for NASA. Throughout Apollo, Skylab, Space Shuttle, and Space Station missions, the space suit has been required to protect astronauts from hazards faced in earth's orbit and on the surface of the moon. These hazards include the vacuum environment of space, temperature extremes ranging from -250 degrees Fahrenheit to 250 degrees Fahrenheit, the impact of micrometeoroids and orbital debris, and lunar dust. Above the 63,000 foot threshold, spacesuits are needed to supply oxygen and to provide a pressurized environment around the body to keep body fluids in a liquid state.\n\nILC began delivering spacesuits for the Apollo program in 1966. Initial deliveries of suits did not perform well in tests and NASA initially cancelled its contract with ILC and Hamilton Standard. NASA relaunched the program to develop a spacesuit for the Apollo program experimenting at first with hard suits. ILC and Hamilton Standard submitted competing designs this time with ILC winning the sole contract based on its flexible, close-fitting design which featured water cooled undergarment, a blue inner pressurized layer, and covered in a white nylon layer to protect the suits from rocks. Hamilton received a separate contract for the life support backpack unit. ILC was further challenged after the Apollo 1 fire to remove all flammable material from space suits. After a nationwide search, ILC settled on beta cloth, a fireproof silica fiber cloth. Apollo spacesuits were custom-made for each of the astronauts in the program, and for each of the twelve crewed flights carried out, ILC produced fifteen suits. Three suits were made for each of the three astronauts comprising the crew (one suit for flight, one for training, one for back-up) and two suits were made for each of the three back-up crew members (one suit for flight and one for training). Twenty extra-vehicular activities (EVAs) were performed during the Apollo program, and ten were performed during Skylab. The Apollo suits were used for a total of 160 hours on the lunar surface.\n\nThe space suit used for EVA during shuttle missions is the Extravehicular Mobility Unit (EMU), which has two parts: the space suit assembly (SSA), manufactured by ILC, and the life support system (LSS), manufactured by Hamilton Sundstrand (previously Hamilton Standard). The SSA is made of individual components which are assembled to fit each astronaut. Since the first shuttle EVA in 1983, 216 U.S. astronauts have performed a total of 74 shuttle EVAs, combining for greater than 470 hours in space.\n\nThe shuttle EMU was improved for use on the International Space Station (ISS). The suits for the ISS were modified to provide greater mobility, to afford better tactile capabilities of the glove, and to provide an increased operational life. As of February 2011, a total of 104 EVAs on the ISS had occurred, for greater than 650 total hours in space.\n\nThe Mark III (MKIII) is an experimental suit that was designed by ILC for use on the space station. The suit is a combination of hard and soft elements, designed for pressurization to . Shuttle suits are pressurized to , and astronauts are required to breathe pure oxygen for several hours prior to EVA to remove all dissolved nitrogen from body fluids (to prevent \"the bends\" upon de-pressurization). Pressurization to would eliminate the need for a lengthy pre-breathing time. The Mk III has since been used in test programs that study space suit operations in the lunar and Mars surface environments.\n\nThe I-Suit is a lightweight experimental suit designed and manufactured by ILC to be used for high-mobility surface operations in gravity, such as on the lunar surface or on the surface of Mars. The I-suit is also being studied for use with next generation NASA launch vehicles and commercial space vehicles.\n\nILC continues in their space suit innovation with the development of the Z-1 Suit for NASA Designed and manufactured at ILC Dover's Houston facility. The Z-1 is the first suit to be successfully integrated into a suit-port dock mechanism eliminating the need for an air lock; and reducing the consumable demands on long term missions.\n\nSince the early 1970s, ILC has been designing and manufacturing softgoods structures for aerostats, airships, blimps, and other lighter-than-air (LTA) structures. ILC is the world's largest producer of modern aerostat and airship envelopes.\n\nAirships and blimps are used for a variety of applications including transport and tourism; advertising; and surveillance. ILC's airship products are used by the U.S. military, the American Blimp Corporation, and Zeppelin Luftschifftechnik GmbH (Germany).\n\nSince the early 1980s, ILC has been involved in the design and development of high altitude airships. The advent and growth of the cellular phone market renewed interest in the use of high altitude airships as an economical alternative to satellites. In the past decade, ILC has worked with Lockheed Martin to support several US government-funded high-altitude airship (HAA) programs to define the system for a mobile platform capable of carrying various payloads, including communications and Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance (ISR) sensors.\n\nAerostats are typically utilized as platforms to carry surveillance radars to altitudes reaching while tethered to the ground by a single tether. ILC has manufactured aerostats with volumes ranging from . The length of these aerostats ranges from .\n\nThe lift generated by a helium filled LTA vehicle can allow heavy loads to be transported in an economical manner. In the early 1990s, ILC was involved in the design and manufacture of logging balloons, devices used in the northwestern U.S. and western Canada for the purpose of retrieving logs from mountainous areas inaccessible by road.\n\nSince the mid-1970s, ILC has designed and produced products for chemical and biological protection. Currently, ILC designs and produces respirators, masks, and suits used to protect against chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear (CBRN) threats. The products are used by U.S. military troops, federal employees, scientists and health care workers.\n\nILC produces powered air purifying respirators (PAPRs). These include the Sentinel XL CBRN PAPR, used to protect against CBRN threats; the Sentinel HP PAPR, used to protect against infectious disease; and the Sentinel XT PAPR, used to protect pharmaceutical workers from airborne active pharmaceutical ingredients (APIs). They also produce an air purifying escape respirator (APER), the SCape CBRN, and the M40/42 gas mask used by the U.S. military.\n\nIn the late 1970s, ILC developed a special garment, the Demilitarization Protective Ensemble (DPE), to fulfill the U.S. Army's need for an off-the-shelf, positive pressure, totally encapsulating suit for use by maintenance personnel at a chemical weapons site. The DPE was delivered to the Army in 1979 and is still currently in daily use, with over 700 recorded entries into a \"hot\" environment and a perfect safety record.\n\nFrom the technology used in production of the DPE, ILC developed a protective suit to be used for commercial applications. The Chemturion is a multi-use, totally encapsulating protective suit, currently used by Public Health Canada, Boston University, USAMRIID and AI Signal Research, the Center for Disease Control in Atlanta, and many industrial companies such as DuPont, Dow, and Georgia Pacific.\n\nILC designs and manufactures products that allow for flexible containment of potent pharmaceutical agents during the pharmaceutical drug manufacturing process. Such containment systems enable the safe and effective processing of active pharmaceutical ingredients. Flexible enclosure systems or specific products, such as the DoverPac, G2Pac and Continuous Liner, can be incorporated into various procedures in the manufacturing process to provide containment of potent pharmaceutical agents, protecting workers from harmful exposure and ensuring purity of the pharmaceutical agents by preventing contamination.\n\nILC designs and manufactures inflatable structures for use in earth orbit, lunar, and planetary exploration. Inflatable structures have been used on a number of space missions for a variety of applications including specialized flexible containment covers (Hubble Space Telescope), impact attenuation airbag systems, and inflatable aerodynamic decelerators.\n\nILC has developed and manufactured a variety of inflatable habitats, airlocks, and shelters for use in earth orbit and lunar / planetary exploration. Lunar habitat projects include the X-Hab Lunar Habitat, the InFlex Lunar Habitat, the Toroidal Lunar Habitat, and the Expandable Lunar Habitat. ILC has also worked on the Antarctic Habitat Planetary Analog Study, the Lawrence Livermore Inflatable Space Station, and the Minimum Function Habitat.\n\nFor decades, ILC has worked on the design and manufacture of inflatable airbag systems. ILC's most notable accomplishments are the Mars Pathfinder and Mars Exploration Rover (MER) airbags which helped land the Sojourner, Spirit & Opportunity rovers on the surface of Mars. In addition to planetary landing systems, ILC has designed and fabricated airbag landing systems to safely return crewed and uncrewed space systems to the surface of earth. This includes airbags for the Orion spacecraft, and the Advanced Launch System.\n\nOther inflatable products with space applications include ballutes and decelerators; inflatable and deployable antennas; sunshields, solar sails and solar arrays; radiation shields; decoys; and planetary balloons.\n\nILC has produced numerous inflatable structures for military and aerospace applications. Inflatable structures are those made from high-performance flexible materials, often providing weight, size, and economic advantages over structures made from traditional metal or composite materials. Products include ballutes and decelerators; floats; munition dispensing systems; UAV wings; radomes; and shelters.\n\n"}
{"id": "2235105", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2235105", "title": "Johann Friedrich Höger", "text": "Johann Friedrich Höger\n\nJohann Friedrich (Fritz) Höger (12 June 1877 – 21 June 1949) was a German architect from Bekenreihe, Steinburg, Schleswig-Holstein in Northern Germany. Although never qualified as an architect, he became known for his Brick Expressionist style of architecture.\n\nHöger was the eldest of six siblings in a family who ran a small carpentry business. At the age of 14, Höger trained as a carpenter in Elmshorn and then went on to Hamburg for his masters which was completed in 1899. Following this he joined the architectural firm Lundt and Kallmorgen in Hamburg, where he worked as a technical draftsman. After his four-year stint there, Höger joined the company of his future father-in-law, Fritz Oldenburg, and married Fritz's daughter Annie in 1905.\n\nHöger is renowned for his use of brick, in the style of Brick Expressionism. Höger opened his own architecture office in 1907, but because of his lack of higher education he was not admitted to the Association of German Architects. Regardless, he received many commissions for private homes around Hamburg. It was during this time that Höger established his style with the use of bricks, particularly clinker bricks, which are more robust and frost resistant due to the higher temperature they are fired at. Höger's style was seen in the 'dished house' which is now home to the department store Kaufhof. It features a strong vertical and horizontal layout with the placement of the eaves and stepped floors, a technique which became typical to Höger's style of building.\n\nHöger's preference for the use of brick was along the lines of ideas espoused by Fritz Schumacher, the Hamburg chief architect beginning in 1909; Schumacher expounded his ideas in polemical writings, including the book \"Das Wesen des neuzeitlichen Backsteinbaues\" (The Essence of the Modern Brick Building), which appeared around 1920. Like Schumacher, Höger thought brick and clinker brick showed an \"earthiness\" that was familiar to the German people, particularly because these materials were typical for Northern Germany.\n\nHis best-known work is the \"Chilehaus\" in Hamburg, constructed between 1922-24 for saltpeter importer Henry B. (Chile) Sloman. The office block features a curving facade reminiscent of a ship's hull, coming together at a sharp angle on the corners of Pumpen and Niedernstrasse.\n\nHöger constructed several other buildings, more prominently a publishing office which included a planetarium, the Anzeiger-Hochhaus (Gazette-Building) between 1927-1928. The 51m high building was the first skyscraper in Hannover. It features a now green copper dome and red clinker bricks offset with a decorative gold. The dome originally housed a planetarium, and is now a cinema.\n\nOther notable works include the Kirche am Hohenzollernplatz in Berlin and the Wilhelmshaven town hall.\nIn 1927 Höger joined the cultural staff of the Völkischer Beobachter and joined the NSDAP in 1932.\n\nFrom 1914 to 1918 Höger completed his military duty in the first world war in Flanders, France.\n\nLater during World War II Höger sympathized with National Socialism (Nazism) and joined the party in 1932. However his expressionistic style did not meet Hitler's taste. As Höger did not follow the preferred classicist marble style of Nazi architecture, he could not obtain a position as state architect.\n\nFor the first time in 2008, the Fritz Höger Prize was awarded for excellence in brick architecture. The initiative goes for buildings with brick, with winners in the categories of detached or semi-detached houses, apartment buildings, office, commercial, leisure and sport, as well as public buildings. In addition, two awards for Passive House and restoration and sustainability have been awarded. The competition is endowed with 10,000 euros. The next competition brief was planned for 2010/2011.\n"}
{"id": "2235107", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2235107", "title": "Ramprasad Sen", "text": "Ramprasad Sen\n\nIt is said that, Ramprasad was born into a Tantric family, and showed an inclination towards poetry from an early age. He became a disciple of Krishnananda Agamavagisha, a Tantric scholar and yogi. Ramprasad became well known for his devotional songs, eventually becoming the court poet of Raja Krishnachandra of Nadia. His life has been the subject of many stories depicting his devotion to, and relationship with, Kali. Ramprasad's literary works include \"Vidyasundar\", \"Kali-kirtana\", \"Krishna-kirtana\" and \"Shaktigiti\".\n\nRamprasad is credited with creating a new compositional form that combined the Bengali folk style of Baul music with classical melodies and \"kirtan\". The new style took root in Bengali culture with many poet-composers combining folk and raga-based melodies, mixing every common style of music from classical to semi-classical and folk. His songs are sung today, with a popular collection—\"Ramprasadi Sangit\" (\"Songs of Ramprasad\")—sold at \"Shakta\" temples and \"pithas\" in Bengal.\n\nBiographies of Ramprasad are a mixture of biography, metaphor, and legend.\n\nRamprasad was born in Garalgachha, in Hooghly District (at his maternal house), into a Tantric Baidya-Brahmin family. Due to the absence of birth records, his actual birth date is not known, but it is believed to be around 1718 or 1723. His father, Ramram Sen, was an Ayurvedic doctor and Sanskrit scholar. Ramprasad's mother Siddheswari was Ramram's second wife. Ramprasad was sent to a Sanskrit \"tol\" (school) where he learned Sanskrit grammar, literature, Persian, and Hindi. As a youth, he had a talent for poetry and learning new languages.\n\nRamram hoped his son would follow in his profession, but Ramprasad showed no interest in practical pursuits. As he grew up, his spiritual inclinations caused a great deal of anxiety to his parents. Believing that marriage would make Ramprasad more responsible, his parents married him to a girl named Sarvani when he was twenty-two years old. In keeping with the family custom, the newly wed couple was initiated by the family's spiritual teacher, Madhavacharya. According to traditional accounts, during initiation when the \"guru\" whispered the \"mantra\" to him, Ramprasad became consumed by intense longing for the goddess Kali. One year after the initiation he lost his guru. Ramprasad later became the disciple of Krishnananda Agamavagisha, a Tantric yogi and scholar. Agamavagisha was a well known devotee of Kali and the author of the Bengali book \"Tantrasara\". Agamavagisha instructed Ramprasad in Tantric \"sadhanas\" (spiritual disciplines) and worship of Kali.\n\nInstead of following his parents wishes and looking for a job, it is said that Ramprasad devoted most of his time to \"sadhana\". Ramram died before he could make provisions to support the family. Forced finally by poverty, Ramprasad moved to Kolkata and worked as an accountant in the household of Durga Charan Mitra for a monthly salary of thirty rupees. According to traditional accounts, during his employment Ramprasad would write devotional songs to Kali. His fellow employees were appalled to see Ramprasad write poems in his account book, and reported him to their employer. Durga Charan Mitra, upon reading Ramprasad's work, was moved by his piety and literary skill. Instead of dismissing Ramprasad from work, he asked him to return to his village and compose songs to Kali, while continuing to pay his salary.\n\nAfter returning to his village, Ramprasad spent most of his time in \"sadhana\", meditation, and prayer. Traditional accounts tell of several esoteric \"sadhanas\" that he performed, including standing neck-deep in the river Ganges, singing songs to Kali. Ramprasad would regularly practice his \"sadhana\" in a panchavati: a grove with five trees—banyan, bael, amalaki, ashoka, and peepul—all regarded as holy in Tantric tradition. He would reportedly spend hours meditating on a \"panchamundi asana\" (an altar inside which are interred five skulls–that of a snake, frog, rabbit, fox, and man). According to popular stories he had a vision of Kali in her form of \"Adyashakti Mahamaya\".\n\nRaja Krishnachandra of Nadia, a landlord under Nawab Sirajuddaula of Bengal, heard Ramprasad's hymns. Being an ardent devotee of Kali, he appointed Ramprasad as his court poet. Ramprasad rarely attended the Maharaja's court and would spend his time in \"sadhana\" and worship of Kali instead. Krishna Chandra became Ramprasad's benefactor, giving him of tax free land. Ramprasad, in return, dedicated his book \"Vidyasundar\" (\"Beautiful Knowledge\") to the Maharaja. Krishna Chandra also gave Ramprasad the title \"Kaviranjana\" (\"Entertainer of poets\"). During the Maharaja's last years, Ramprasad stayed beside him, singing hymns to Kali. Ramprasad's mysticism was recognized by sufis and Nawab Sirajuddaula. Ramprasad is said to have visited the court of the Nawab at the Nawab's fervent request.\n\nDuring Ramprasad's old age, he was looked after by his son Ramdulal and daughter-in-law Bhagavati.\nA folk story is told of Ramprasad's death. Ramprasad was very fond of taking part in Kali puja on the night of Diwali, the festival of lights. On one Kali puja night, he performed the puja and sang throughout the night. In the morning, Ramprasad carried the jar of Divine Mother's sanctified water on his head to the Ganges. He was followed by the devotees, who carried the clay image of Kali to be immersed in the Ganges after the night of worship. Ramprasad waded into the holy river, until the water was neck deep, all the while singing for Kali. As Kali's image was immersed, Ramprasad died— this was believed to be around 1775.\nHowever, recent documentary evidence, a Kabulatipatra dated April 1794 bearing the sign of Ramprasad Sen as a witness, clearly proves the fact that Ramprasad Sen was alive in 1794. The said Kabulatipatra has been preserved and displayed at Sabarna Sangrahashala in Barisha.\n\nIn Bengal, popular stories and legends are told of Ramprasad. One of the most well known stories is about a \"radiant girl\" who helped him one day. Ramprasad was repairing a fence with the assistance of his daughter, who left shortly thereafter. Soon a \"radiant girl\", whom he didn't recognize, came to help him. After finishing the task, she vanished. According to the story, Ramprasad then realized that she was a manifestation of Kali.\n\nAnother popular story is told of Ramprasad's vision of goddess Annapurna of Varanasi. Ramprasad was on his way to the river for his daily ritual bath when a beautiful young woman stopped him, asking if she could hear him sing a devotional song to the Divine Mother. Ramprasad requested her to wait, since it was getting late for his noon worship. When he returned, he couldn't find her, and began to think that it may have been the \"play of Divine Mother.\" Sitting down to meditate, he was surrounded by a radiant light and heard a female voice saying, \"I am Annapurna (…) I came all the way from Varanasi to hear your songs but, alas, I had to leave disappointed.\" Ramprasad was angry with himself and immediately left for Varanasi to find Mother Annapurna and sing for her. After walking many miles, he reached Triveni, where he took rest under a tree on the bank of the Ganges. Here he reportedly received another vision, saw the same mystical light, and heard the Mother's voice saying, \"Stay here and sing for me. (…) Varanasi is not the only place where I live; I pervade the whole universe.\"\n\nRamprasad Sen is regarded as one of the notable figures of the bhakti movement in Bengal during the eighteenth century. He is credited with popularizing the \"bhakti\" Shakta tradition and \"Shyama Sangeet\"—devotional songs to the goddess Kali. Ramprasad was the first Shakta poet to address Kali with such intimate devotion, and to sing of her as a tender loving mother or even as a little girl. After him, a school of Shakta poets continued the Kali-\"bhakti\" tradition.\n\nRamprasad created a new compositional form that combined the Bengali folk style of Baul music with classical melodies and \"kirtan\". This new form took root in Bengali culture for the next hundred and fifty years, with hundreds of poet-composers combining folk and raga-based melodies, and bringing together styles of music that included classical, semi-classical, and folk. His poetic style has been described as \"sweet, familiar and unsophisticated\", though his lyrics were sung in classical style rather than a folk style. Two of his notable successors as composers in the same style were Kamalakanta Bhattacarya and Mahendranath Bhattacarya.\n\nRamprasad's songs are known as \"Ramprasadi\". The devotion to Kali often included as a background the events in Bengal during his time, such as the Bengal famine of 1770, economic hardships, and the deterioration of rural culture. His poems were very popular during his lifetime.\n\nRamprasad's literary works include \" Vidyasundar\" (or \"Kalikaman-gala\") (ca. sixth or seventh decade of the 18th century), \"Kali-kirtana\", the fragmentary \"Krishna-kirtana\", and \"Shaktigiti\". \"Kali-kirtana\" is a collection of lyric and narrative poetry describing the early life of Uma. \"Krishna-kirtana\" is an incomplete book of poems and songs to Krishna—the complete collection is yet to be discovered. \"Vidyasundara Kavya\" is written in a narrative style that was already popular in Bengali literature, telling the traditional love story of Vidya and Sundara—children of kings who are aided by Kali in meeting, falling in love, and marrying. \"Shaktigiti\" is Ramprasad's well known and respected work, in which he expresses his deepest feelings and love for Kali. In \"Shaktigiti\", he shares the most intimate relationship with Kali—a child who can both love and quarrel with his mother over the inequities of human birth.\n\nRamakrishna Paramahamsa, a mystic of nineteenth century Bengal, often sang his songs and regarded Ramprasad as his beloved poet. Many of these songs are recorded in \"The Gospel of Sri Ramakrishna\", which at one point mentions, \"\"…he (Ramakrishna) would spend hours singing the devotional songs of great devotees of the Mother, such as Kamalakanta and Ramprasad. Those rhapsodic songs describing direct vision of God…\"\"Paramhansa Yogananda also was an admirer of Ramprasad and his devotional songs, frequently singing them. Sister Nivedita compared Ramprasad with the English poet William Blake.\n\nOne of Ramprasad's hymns to the Goddess is as follows:\n\n<poem>\nYou'll find Mother In any house.\nDo I dare say it in public?\nShe is Bhairavi with Shiva,\nDurga with Her children,\nSita with Lakshmana.\nShe's mother, daughter, wife, sister—\nEvery woman close to you.\nWhat more can Ramprasad say?\nYou work the rest out from these hints.\n</poem>\nAnother of his popular poems describes the human attempt to understand the Goddess:\n<poem>\nYou think you understand the Goddess?\nEven philosophers can not explain her.\nThe scriptures say that she, herself,\nis the essence of us all. It is she, herself,\nwho brings life through her sweet will.\n\nYou think you understand her?\nI can only smile, you think that you can\ntruly know her? I can only laugh!\nBut what our minds accept, our hearts do not.\nAnts try to grasp the moon, we the goddess.\n</poem>\nRamprasad's songs are still popular in Bengal and recited regularly in the worship of Kali. Scholar Shuma Chakrovarty notes that his songs are \"broadcast over the radio and sung on the streets and in the homes and temples of Calcutta by a cross-section of people—children, the elderly, housewives, businessmen, scholars, the illiterate, monks, householders, and the youth of all classes\". Many of his songs were sung by popular Shyama Sangeet singers like Dhananjay Bhattacharya, Pannalal Bhattacharya, and Anup Ghosal. Still his master literature combination of simple words in the songs melts one's hearts and floods the eye with tears. An [anekanta]vadin reading of Ramprasad's texts is also found.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2235109", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2235109", "title": "The Music of Dolphins", "text": "The Music of Dolphins\n\nThe Music of Dolphins, by Karen Hesse, is a children's book that follows the story of Mila, a feral child raised by a pod of dolphins around the Florida Keys and Caribbean. \"Mila\" is an abbreviated form of the Spanish word \"milagro\", meaning \"miracle\".\n\nThe novel uses a narrative structure that parallels Mila's increasing comprehension of the English language. At the novel's opening, when Mila is with the dolphins and cannot speak English , also cannot recognise who she is. The story is told from a neutral third person perspective, but from Mila's point of view. The text moves to simple English as Mila learns the language, becomes more complex as her emotions increase, reverts to simple English when she yearns for the dolphins and, finally, goes back to third person.\n\nAlthough the novel is fiction, it is based on real life experiences of people who have worked with feral children.\n\nMila, a girl raised by dolphins, is discovered and captured on a cay and taken to a scientific research facility. She progresses quickly and meets Shay, who looks like Mila, another feral child, and thought that they were alike, two girls that are different from the people around them. Shay is a quiet girl. As more time passes, she falls in love with music and Doctor Beck's son Justin, and wonders why she progresses so quickly, yet Shay cannot. Shay is sent to another home, with another children. And Sandy explains to Mila that the feral children that have been studied, they have stopped progressing at a point, all except for Mila. Soon, Mila finds her newfound knowledge slipping away and becomes more dolphin again. She requests to be released back to the ocean and after some discussing among her caregivers, she was being returned to the ocean and reunites with her dolphin family.\n\nMila: The protagonist of the story, a girl raised by dolphins. She is captured on a cay and taken to a scientific research facility, where she is taught to be a human and Doctor Beck who help her in her struggle to learn English and about human life. At one point, Mila learns that her real name could be Olivia, and that her father, who is Cuban, is alive.\n\nDoctor Beck: The main doctor that takes care of Mila and helps her learn to speak and to be a human.\n\nShay: A friend of Mila, a little girl. Shay was said to be kept in solitary confinement in Idaho. Later, she is taken from the research facility to a foster home.\n\nJustin: Doctor Beck's son. At first he is resentful and jealous of Mila and the attention Dr. Beck gives her. Later he tells Mila that Dr. Beck's interest in Mila is more scientific than familial. However, the two fall in love in the climax of the story.\n\nSandy: A friend of Dr. Beck's. She sometimes acts as a caregiver of Mila, who finds Sandy to be the most sympathetic and understanding person in the story.\n\nMr. Aradondo: A janitor at the facility where Mila is kept. He appears to be afraid of Mila, though he openly expresses concern for her well-being when she develops a high fever. He reminds Mila of her grandfather.\n\nDoctor Troy and Doctor Peach: Colleagues of Doctor Beck, who also help with Mila and Shay learn about music and the English language.\n\nDolphins: The ones that raise Mila. Her dolphin mother has a spotted tail or fluke, and wise eyes; she had lost her baby calf shortly before finding Mila.\n\n"}
{"id": "2235110", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2235110", "title": "1884–85 in English football", "text": "1884–85 in English football\n\nThe 1884–1885 season was the 14th season of competitive football in England.\n\nEngland finished second in the British Home Championship, which was won by Scotland.\n<nowiki>*</nowiki> England score given first\n\nKey\n\nNote – Some sources credit England's third goal as a Joe Lofthouse goal, but match reports clearly state an Eames own goal.\n\n"}
{"id": "2235113", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2235113", "title": "Octave effect", "text": "Octave effect\n\nOctave effect boxes are a type of special effects unit which mix the input signal with a synthesised signal whose musical tone is an octave lower or higher than the original. The synthesised octave signal is derived from the original input signal by halving (octave-down) or doubling (octave-up) the frequency. This is possible due to the simple two-to-one relationship between the frequencies of musical notes which are separated by an octave. One of the first popular musicians to employ the octave effect was Jimi Hendrix, who also used a variety of other effects in his recordings and public performances. Hendrix used an octave-fuzz pedal known as the octavia.\n\nAnalog octave effects differ from harmonizers and pitch shifters which digitally sample the sound and process it to change its pitch.\n\nOctave-up effects usually use full wave rectification using diodes to \"fold up\" the negative part of the waveform to make a new waveform an octave higher in pitch.\n\nOctave-down effects are typically produced by converting the signal to a square wave, and then using flip-flop circuits to divide the frequency by two. This creates a buzzy synthesizer like tone. The MXR Blue Box used this method to create a two octave drop (expanded to include one octave down in later re-issues). Jimmy Page used a Blue Box to record the solo on Led Zeppelin's Fool in the Rain.\n\nThe Boss OC-2 unit generates tones at one and two octaves down from the input signal. This effect also uses flip-flops to generate square waves at 1/2 and 1/4 of the input signal frequency, but rather than simply mixing in these signals, it uses them to invert the polarity of the input signal on every other cycle (every two out of four cycles for the second octave). This effectively amplitude modulates the input signal with a carrier at half the input signal, creating new frequency components at 1/2 and 3/2 the input signal. The 3/2 component is low-pass filtered out. This more complex approach lessens the synthetic sound of the octave tones by making them more closely associated with the original signal, and also makes the effect volume-sensitive.\n\nThe Boss OC-3 (2006) has an additional mode called \"Poly\" where only a low note is added with the idea to add a bass line to chords.\n\nThe Mu-tron Octave Divider (about 1972) had a unique generator that tuned into the low octave as long as the input signal was strong and then continued generating the same frequency while that input signal faded.\n\nOctave pedals can be used in conjunction with fuzz (see octafuzz) and/or distortion. It can be used on guitar to make it sound more aggressive (such as the lead-in solo by Prince on When Doves Cry) or sound like a bass. The song Seven Nation Army by The White Stripes features an octave pedal on electric guitar, simulating the sound of a bass.\n"}
{"id": "2235118", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2235118", "title": "The Spectator (1711)", "text": "The Spectator (1711)\n\nThe Spectator was a daily publication founded by Joseph Addison and Richard Steele in England, lasting from 1711 to 1712. Each \"paper\", or \"number\", was approximately 2,500 words long, and the original run consisted of 555 numbers, beginning on 1 March 1711. These were collected into seven volumes. The paper was revived without the involvement of Steele in 1714, appearing thrice weekly for six months, and these papers when collected formed the eighth volume. Eustace Budgell, a cousin of Addison's, and the poet John Hughes also contributed to the publication.\n\nIn Number 10, Mr. Spectator states that \"The Spectator\" will aim \"to enliven morality with wit, and to temper wit with morality\". The journal reached an audience of thousands of people every day, because \"the \"Spectators\" was something that every middle-class household with aspirations to looking like its members took literature seriously would want to have.\" He hopes it will be said he has \"brought philosophy out of closets and libraries, schools, and colleges, to dwell in clubs and assemblies, at tea-tables and coffee–houses\". Women specifically were also a target audience for \"The Spectator,\" because one of the aims of the periodical was to increase the number of women who were \"of a more elevated life and conversation.\" Steele states in The Spectator, No. 10, \"But there are none to whom this paper will be more useful than to the female world.\" He recommends that readers of the paper consider it \"as a part of the tea-equipage\" and set aside time to read it each morning. \"The Spectator\" sought to provide readers with topics for well-reasoned discussion, and to equip them to carry on conversations and engage in social interactions in a polite manner. In keeping with the values of Enlightenment philosophies of their time, the authors of \"The Spectator\" promoted family, marriage, and courtesy.\n\nDespite a modest daily circulation of approximately 3,000 copies, \"The Spectator\" was widely read; Joseph Addison estimated that each number was read by thousands of Londoners, about a tenth of the capital's population at the time. Contemporary historians and literary scholars, meanwhile, do not consider this to be an unreasonable claim; most readers were not themselves subscribers but patrons of one of the subscribing coffeehouses. These readers came from many stations in society, but the paper catered principally to the interests of England's emerging middle class—merchants and traders large and small.\n\n\"The Spectator\" also had many readers in the American colonies. In particular, James Madison read the paper avidly as a teenager. It is said to have had a big influence on his world view, lasting throughout his long life. Benjamin Franklin was also a reader, and the Spectator influenced his style in his \"Silence Dogood\" letters. \n\nJürgen Habermas sees \"The Spectator\" as instrumental in the formation of the public sphere in 18th century England. Although \"The Spectator\" declares itself to be politically neutral, it was widely recognised as promoting Whig values and interests.\n\n\"The Spectator\" continued to be popular and widely read in the late 18th and 19th centuries. It was sold in eight-volume editions. Its prose style, and its marriage of morality and advice with entertainment, were considered exemplary. The decline in its popularity has been discussed by Brian McCrea and C. S. Lewis.\n\nIn \"The Spectator, No.11\", Steele created a frame narrative that would come to be an incredibly well known story in the eighteenth century, the story of \"Inkle and Yarico\". Although the periodical essay was published on March 13 of 1711, the story is based on Richard Ligon's publication in 1647. Ligon's publication, \"A True and Exact History of the Island of Barbadoes\", reports on how the cruelties of the transatlantic slave trade contribute to slave-produced goods such as tobacco and sugarcane. Mr. Spectator goes to speak with an older woman, Arietta, whom many people visit to discuss various topics. When Mr. Spectator enters the room, there is already another man present speaking with Arietta. They are discussing \"constancy in love,\" and the man uses the tale of \"The Ephesian Matron\" to support his point. Arietta is insulted and angered by the man's hypocrisy and sexism. She counters his tale with one of her own, the story of \"Inkle and Yarico\". Thomas Inkle, a twenty-year-old man from London, sailed to the West Indies to increase his wealth through trade. While on an island, he encounters a group of Indians, who battle and kill many of his shipmates. After fleeing, Inkle hides in a cave where he discovers Yarico, an Indian maiden. They become enamored with one another's clothing and physical appearances, and Yarico for the next several months hides her lover from her people and provides him with food and fresh water. Eventually, a ship passes, headed for Barbadoes, and Inkle and Yarico use this opportunity to leave the island. After reaching the English colony, Inkle sells Yarico to a merchant, even after she tells him that she is pregnant. Arietta closes the tale stating that Inkle simply uses Yarico's declaration to argue for a higher price when selling her. Mr. Spectator is so moved by the legend that he takes his leave. Steele's text was so well known and influential that seven decades after his publication, George Colman modified the short story into a comic opera, showcasing three relationships between characters of varying social statuses to reach multiple audiences.\n\n\n\nThe standard edition of \"The Spectator\" is Donald F. Bond's edition in five volumes, published in 1965. Selections can be found in \"The Norton Anthology of English Literature\".\n\n (transcription of 1891 republication)\n"}
{"id": "2235129", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2235129", "title": "Quest of the Delta Knights", "text": "Quest of the Delta Knights\n\nQuest of the Delta Knights is a 1993 fantasy/adventure sword and sorcery film that was featured in a September 1998 episode of \"Mystery Science Theater 3000\". It is one of only a few movies shown on MST3K that was made in the 1990s.\n\nThe plot revolves around a young boy named Travis (nicknamed \"Tee\") who learns from his master that he is the key to saving the world from an evil plot. Tee joins the secret organization of the Delta Knights and embarks on a quest to attempt to recover the lost treasures inside the fabled Lost Storehouse of Archimedes. The plot is markedly similar to that of Robert Heinlein's \"Citizen of the Galaxy\", including its essentially identical setup of a young slave boy—who is really the lost heir of a powerful family—being bought for a pittance by a seeming beggar, who is himself really a spy, and who suspects the boy's true identity.\n\nAlso noteworthy is the extreme confusion the film displays with regard to setting, both in terms of time period and location. The story would seem to take place in medieval England all along a number of plot elements contradicting this. Vultare's henchmen wear headgear strongly resembling (stereotypical) Viking helmets. Baydool states that they are in the Dark Ages, yet firearms are inexplicably used. Leonardo da Vinci, a figure from Renaissance Italy, appears as a major character in the plot. Finally, Leonardo and Tee are searching for the lost storehouse of Archimedes, a figure from ancient Syracuse, Sicily, whose storehouse one might reasonably think unlikely to be found in England. A document held by Archimedes seen in a flashback is also clearly held together by staples.\n\nA large portion of this movie was filmed at the Renaissance Pleasure Faire in Black Point, Novato, California. Performers from the Faire were employed as extras in various scenes throughout. Exterior scenes of Archimedes' storehouse were filmed at the Palace of Fine Arts, San Francisco, California. Exterior scenes of the prison were filmed at Petaluma Adobe State Historic Park, Petaluma, California. Some interior scenes of the Mannerjay's palace were filmed at the Scottish Rite Temple, Oakland, California.\n\n\nDavid Warner was originally intended to play one character in the movie but suggested that he could play two roles for the same cost.\n\nIn a 2017 interview with The A.V. Club, David Warner expressed his enjoyment in being in \"Quest of the Delta Knights\", followed by his amusement at the film being featured on \"Mystery Science Theater 3000\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2235130", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2235130", "title": "Makhtesh Ramon", "text": "Makhtesh Ramon\n\nMakhtesh Ramon (; \"lit.\" Ramon Crater/Makhtesh ; ) is a geological feature of Israel's Negev desert. Located at the peak of Mount Negev, some 85 km south of the city of Beersheba, the landform is not an impact crater from a meteor nor a volcanic crater formed by a volcanic eruption, but rather is the world's largest \"erosion cirque\" (steephead valley or box canyons). The formation is 40 km long, 2–10 km wide and 500 meters deep, and is shaped like an elongated heart. The only settlement in the area is the small town of Mitzpe Ramon (מצפה רמון, \"Ramon Lookout\") located on the northern edge of the depression. Today the area forms Israel's largest national park, the Ramon Nature Reserve.\n\nHundreds of millions of years ago, the Negev desert was covered by an ocean. Slowly, this started to recede northwards leaving behind a hump-shaped hill. The hump was slowly flattened by water and climatic forces. Approximately five million years ago, the Arava Rift Valley was formed, with rivers changing their courses, carving out the inside of the crater which was a softer rock than that overlying. The crater bottom continued to deepen at a much faster rate than the surrounding walls, which gradually increased in height. As the crater deepened, more layers of ancient rock were exposed with rocks at the bottom of the crater being up to 200 million years old. Today, the crater is 500 metres deep with the deepest point being Ein Saharonim (\"Saharonim Spring\") which also contains the makhtesh's only natural water source, which sustains much of the wildlife in the makhtesh including onagers and ibex.\n\nMakhtesh Ramon contains a diversity of rocks including clay hills known for their fantastic red and yellow colors and forms. Impressive mountains rise at the borders of the crater - Har Ramon (Mt. Ramon) at the southern end, Har Ardon (Mt. Ardon) at the north-eastern end, and two table mountains - Har Marpek (Mt. Marpek - \"Elbow\"), and Har Katum (Mt. Katum - \"Cropped\") along the southern wall. The hills to the north-eastern edge of the makhtesh were once entirely covered by spiral ammonite fossils, ranging from the size of snails to that of tractor wheels although these have mainly been extracted so only smaller fossils can be found here today.\n\nGiv'at Ga'ash, a black hill in the north of the makhtesh was once an active volcano which erupted thousands of years ago and caused it to be covered in lava which quickly cooled in the open air, converting it into basalt. Limestone covered by basalt can also be found in smaller black hills in the southern part of the makhtesh, including Karnei Ramon.\n\nShen Ramon (\"Ramon's Tooth\") is a rock made of magma which hardened whilst underground. It later rose up through cracks in the Earth's surface, and today stands in striking contrast with the nearby creamy coloured southern wall of the crater, as a black sharp-edged rock.\n\nIn the centre of the makhtesh is HaMinsara (\"The Carpentry Shop\"), a low hill made up of columnar jointed sandstone - polygonal prismatic columns of quartzite.\n\nThe pterioid bivalve Family Ramonalinidae is found in early Middle Triassic rocks of Makhtesh Ramon and was named after this feature.\n\nNahal Ardon in the east of the makhtesh contains several vertical dikes. Occasional geodes of celestine can be found next to some of them.\n\nThe Asian wild ass has been reintroduced to Makhtesh Ramon. In 1995 the population had increased to 40 adults in the area. The animals are hybrids of two different subspecies of the Asian Wild Ass. It is derived from the Turkmenian kulan (\"E. h. kulan\") and the Persian onager (\"E. h. onager\"). The original subspecies, the Syrian wild ass (\"E. h. hemippus\"), is completely extinct. Other larger mammals of the area include Nubian ibexes, Dorcas gazelles, striped hyenas and few Arabian leopards.\n\nThe ruins of a large prehistoric stone structure known as Khan Saharonim are found in the makhtesh, as it lies along the ancient Incense Route, a trade route used by the Nabataeans 2,000 years ago. These ruins acted as a way station for the traders and their animals (\"khan\" is the Arabic word for a caravanserai) as they proceeded further westwards to the Mediterranean seaport city of Gaza.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2235131", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2235131", "title": "Youthquake (movement)", "text": "Youthquake (movement)\n\nYouthquake was a 1960s cultural movement. The term was coined by \"Vogue\" magazine's editor-in-chief Diana Vreeland in 1965. Youthquake involved music, pop culture and changed the landscape of the fashion industry. The movement is characterized by looking to youth culture for a source of inspiration, taking dominance away from the English and Parisian couture houses.\n\nWith the massive market of \"baby boomers\" coming into young adulthood, this generation challenged the norms of the past and were successful due to their large population. Women's economic, sexual, and social independence is seen as a catalyst that caused the many to reject the idealized femininity of the 1950s. In England, the emerging generation was bored of the couture houses' conservative designs and instead looked to boutiques to reinvent their style. This was a time in society when teenagers were able to explore their own identities and had the freedom to push boundaries due to post-World War II conditions. The boutique saw the start of the London ready-to-wear industry as people flocked for mass-produced clothing at a lower price point than its predecessors.\n\nMary Quant, often credited for inventing the mini-skirt, was a leader in the boutique movement and attributed her primary source of inspiration to the street style of the youth. Boutiques Biba, Bazaar and Paraphernalia housed talent like Betsey Johnson and Emmanuelle Khanh and utilized mass-production to fill their shops with the latest trends. These boutiques were key players in London and the US as they were the first to cater specifically to the youth market with a modern approach: \"clothes displayed like art in a gallery, cooler-than-thou young salesgirls, and rock and roll blaring from the speakers—shops that marketed clothes as part of a whole, deliriously amusing lifestyle\". The Scott Paper Company took advantage of mass-production and created disposable chemise dresses out of their patented Dura-Weave paper. Mass-production gave Scott the ability to print a diverse assortment of eye-catching patterns and Pop Art inspired motifs that appealed to the youth consumer. \n\nThe fashion of youthquake was fun, spirited and youthful – miniskirts, jumpsuits, and A-line silhouettes in bold colors were all the rage. Trends like mod, Space Age, and hippie styles were birthed from this cultural phenomenon. Poster girls of the youthquakers such as Jean Shrimpton, Twiggy, Penelope Tree, Veruschka, and Edie Sedgwick were often on the cover of fashion magazines such as \"Vogue\". Pop icons like the Beatles and Jimi Hendrix were also used in advertising to reinforce fashion trends and drive sales.\n\nLuxury designers like Andrè Courrèges and Yves Saint Laurent came out with mini-skirt infused spring collections in the mid-1960s with bold graphic silhouettes and pants for all occasions. Courrèges' \"recognition of the revolution launched by the younger generation\" revitalized and preserved high fashion by \"injecting [its] elements into Haute Couture\". Designers Paco Rabanne and Courrèges experimented with industrial plastics and metallic fibers in exploring the Space Age trend. In the end we saw many couture houses opening their own boutiques of ready-to-wear styles as well as houses like Balenciaga closing their couture doors completely.\n\nThe concept of the \"bubble-up\" theory, where ideas and inspiration was taken from the low-context culture instead of the high-context culture setting the standards, was the lasting impact of the youthquake movement. Other legacies included the miniskirt, as it symbolized independence and liberation for women during the time and the trouser suit which inspired the looks of the following decade and redefined femininity. The almost androgynous shapes and aesthetic of the Space Age trend sparked experimentation of form. The use of pop culture icons in fashion advertising set a new precedent for successful marketing into the 21st century.\n\nIn December 2017, OxfordDictionaries.com declared the idiom \"word of the year\", noting a five-fold increase in its use during the year, particularly in reference to young people's political engagement.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2235135", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2235135", "title": "Here Come the Brides (album)", "text": "Here Come the Brides (album)\n\nHere Come the Brides is the debut album by Brides of Destruction released via Sanctuary Records on March 9, 2004. It is their most successful album being the only one to have a charting on the \"Billboard\" 200, it is also the only album that features bassist Nikki Sixx who would leave the band to rejoin Mötley Crüe for their reunion tour in 2005 and also the only album to feature John Corabi.\nThe album's only single, \"Shut The Fuck Up\" failed to chart due to little airplay. \"Only Get So Far\" was originally written by Nikki Sixx for Tim McGraw and Faith Hill.\n\nBrides of Destruction was formed by Nikki Sixx and Tracii Guns in Los Angeles 2002 initially with the name Cockstar after Mötley Crüe went on hiatus and Tracii left L.A. Guns. The lineup was rounded off with singer London LeGrand, keyboardist Adam Hamilton and Kris Kohls of Adema on drums. They were advised by radio programmers that the name Cockstar wouldn't be announced on air. They briefly adopted the moniker Motordog before settling on Brides of Destruction after it was suggested to Sixx by a friend. Hamilton left shortly after and was replaced by John Corabi, also formerly of Mötley Crüe, who became the band's second guitarist. They entered the studio with producer Stevo Bruno to begin recording. Kohls left the bend in early 2003 but is still credited in the album for the songs \"I Got a Gun\", \"Natural Born Killers\", \"Revolution\" and \"Only Get So Far\" despite Sixx stating that his replacement, Scot Coogan, had re-recorded the drum parts for them:\n\nAfter recording his guitar parts for all the songs, Corabi left the Brides stating he wanted to pursue a solo career as his reasons. In an interview years later Corabi cited some tension with Guns and little writing input contributing to his decision to leave:\n\nSixx's future bandmate James Michael features on the album, co-writing \"Brace Yourself\", \"Natural Born Killers\" and \"Only Get So Far\". Justin Nichols and Grammy nominated songwriter Kevin Kadish are also given writing credits on the song \"Life\" which sees drummer Scot Coogan performing lead vocals. After recording was finished, the album was mixed by Grammy Award-winning producer and mixer Steve Thompson. Initially it looked like the album would only see a Japanese release after signing a deal with Universal Records and failing to find a label for an American/European release. Due to this it looked likely the band were to split until they signed a deal with Sanctuary Records and set a release date that was pushed back a number of times eventually being released on March 9, 2004. The band chose \"Shut the Fuck Up\" as their first single and recorded a video with director Paul Brown. The song was chosen as a protest against politicians discussing the war against terror. Despite the fact that the track was edited for radio, the song did not receive as much airplay as the band would have liked and the track failed to chart.\n\nUpon release, Here Come the Brides chart at number 92 on the \"Billboard\" 200 selling 13,694 copies. The band announced the Honeymoon From Hell US tour to support the album with support from Amen and Living Things. They also played at festivals in Europe such as Download in the UK, Metaltown in Sweden and supported Alice Cooper for a couple of shows in Norway and Sweden. The album is currently out of print.\n\nThe album was generally well received, with Allmusic giving it a 3.5/5 rating stating \"The sound? By-the-numbers Los Angeles metal with slight post-grunge updates. \"Shut the F*** Up\" draws on Generation Swine-era Crüe, while \"I Got a Gun\" reaches eagerly for classic Queensrÿche. The Brides play well as a unit, and LeGrand makes up for his lack of nuance with power.\". Rolling Stone gave the album 3 out of 5 stars saying \" Singer London Le Grand works a fine Bowie-Axl yowl, but he mostly gets points for his great porn-metal name. Throughout, Brides show today's whippersnappers how to deliver real cock-rock shock - even the de rigueur power ballad \"Only Get So Far\" has cojones.\". Blabbermouth gave a more mixed review stating \"the record — a compact nine-song effort — only provides sporadic moments of inspiration and little in the way of truly electrifying rock and roll. It's commendable that Sixx, Guns, drummer Scot Coogan, and vocalist London LeGrand are sticking their middle fingers at trends and doing what they want musically, but the shopworn selection of material here generates very few real sparks.\"\n\nAlbum - Billboard (North America)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2235138", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2235138", "title": "Anthony Bidulka", "text": "Anthony Bidulka\n\nAnthony Bidulka (born July 24, 1962) is a Canadian writer of mystery, thriller and suspense novels. Bidulka's books have been nominated for Crime Writers of Canada Arthur Ellis Awards, Saskatchewan Book Awards, a ReLit award, and Lambda Literary Awards.\n\nHis novel \"Flight of Aquavit\" won the Lambda Literary Award for Best Men's Mystery, making Bidulka the first Canadian to win in that category. Bidulka received Lambda Literary Award nominations again in 2008 for \"Stain of the Berry\", in 2009 for \"Sundowner Ubuntu\", and in 2013 for \"Dos Equis\".\n\nBorn and raised on a farm near Prud'homme, Saskatchewan, Bidulka studied psychology at the University of Saskatchewan in Saskatoon, and worked as a teacher and CPA before devoting himself to full-time writing in 1999.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2235140", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2235140", "title": "1885–86 in English football", "text": "1885–86 in English football\n\nThe 1885–1886 season was the 15th season of competitive football in England.\n\nEngland were joint winners of the 1886 British Home Championship with Scotland.\n<nowiki>*</nowiki> England score given first\n\nKey\n\nNote – see re query on goalscorers against Wales.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2235142", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2235142", "title": "Manning formula", "text": "Manning formula\n\nThe Manning formula is an empirical formula estimating the average velocity of a liquid flowing in a conduit that does not completely enclose the liquid, i.e., open channel flow. However, this equation is also used for calculation of flow variables in case of flow in partially full conduits, as they also possess a free surface like that of open channel flow. All flow in so-called open channels is driven by gravity. It was first presented by the French engineer Philippe Gauckler in 1867, and later re-developed by the Irish engineer Robert Manning in 1890.\n\nThe Manning formula is also known as the Gauckler–Manning formula, or Gauckler–Manning–Strickler formula in Europe. In the United States, in practice, it is very frequently called simply Manning's equation.\n\nThe Gauckler–Manning formula states:\n\nwhere:\n\nNOTE: \"Ks\" strickler = 1/\"n\" manning. The coefficient \"Ks\" strickler varies from 20 (rough stone and rough surface) to 80 m/s (smooth concrete and cast iron).\n\nThe discharge formula, \"Q\" = \"A\" \"V\", can be used to \"manipulate\" Gauckler–Manning's equation by substitution for \"V\". Solving for \"Q\" then allows an estimate of the volumetric flow rate (discharge) without knowing the limiting or actual flow velocity.\n\nThe Gauckler–Manning formula is used to estimate the average velocity of water flowing in an open channel in locations where it is not practical to construct a weir or flume to measure flow with greater accuracy. The friction coefficients across weirs and orifices are less subjective than \"n\" along a natural (earthen, stone or vegetated) channel reach. Cross sectional area, as well as \"n, will likely vary along a natural channel. Accordingly, more error is expected in estimating the average velocity by assuming a Manning's \"n\", than by direct sampling (i.e., with a current flowmeter), or measuring it across weirs, flumes or orifices. Manning's equation is also commonly used as part of a numerical step method\"', such as the standard step method, for delineating the free surface profile of water flowing in an open channel.\n\nThe formula can be obtained by use of dimensional analysis. In the 2000s this formula was derived theoretically using the phenomenological theory of turbulence.\n\nConsider a particle ∂m of fluid subjected to a differential force and torque:\nLinear acceleration is conceivable, but the angular acceleration is infinite. Then, as the observation indicates that there is rotation in the fluids, the acceleration and torque must have disappeared by the time they were observed, and the angular velocity became constant.\nThen, for an incompressible and Newtonian fluid, due to Helmholtz theorem, we can determine v.\n\nThe demonstration is here:\nhttps://www.academia.edu/37869711/MANNING_FORMULA_DEMONSTRATION\n\nThe hydraulic radius is one of the properties of a channel that controls water discharge. It also determines how much work the channel can do, for example, in moving sediment. All else equal, a river with a larger hydraulic radius will have a higher flow velocity, and also a larger cross sectional area through which that faster water can travel. This means the greater the hydraulic radius, the larger volume of water the channel can carry.\n\nBased on the 'constant shear stress at the boundary' assumption, hydraulic radius is defined as the ratio of the channel's cross-sectional area of the flow to its wetted perimeter (the portion of the cross-section's perimeter that is \"wet\"):\n\nwhere:\nFor channels of a given width, the hydraulic radius is greater for deeper channels. In wide rectangular channels, the hydraulic radius is approximated by the flow depth.\n\nThe hydraulic radius is \"not\" half the hydraulic diameter as the name may suggest, but one quarter in the case of a full pipe. It is a function of the shape of the pipe, channel, or river in which the water is flowing.\n\nHydraulic radius is also important in determining a channel's efficiency (its ability to move water and sediment), and is one of the properties used by water engineers to assess the channel's capacity.\n\nThe Gauckler–Manning coefficient, often denoted as \"n\", is an empirically derived coefficient, which is dependent on many factors, including surface roughness and sinuosity. When field inspection is not possible, the best method to determine \"n\" is to use photographs of river channels where \"n\" has been determined using Gauckler–Manning's formula.\n\nIn natural streams, \"n\" values vary greatly along its reach, and will even vary in a given reach of channel with different stages of flow. Most research shows that \"n\" will decrease with stage, at least up to bank-full. Overbank \"n\" values for a given reach will vary greatly depending on the time of year and the velocity of flow. Summer vegetation will typically have a significantly higher \"n\" value due to leaves and seasonal vegetation. Research has shown, however, that \"n\" values are lower for individual shrubs with leaves than for the shrubs without leaves.\nThis is due to the ability of the plant's leaves to streamline and flex as the flow passes them thus lowering the resistance to flow. High velocity flows will cause some vegetation (such as grasses and forbs) to lay flat, where a lower velocity of flow through the same vegetation will not.\n\nIn open channels, the Darcy–Weisbach equation is valid using the hydraulic diameter as equivalent pipe diameter. It is \nthe only sound method to estimate the energy loss in man-made open channels. For various reasons (mainly historical reasons), empirical resistance coefficients (e.g. Chézy, Gauckler–Manning–Strickler) were and are still used. The Chézy coefficient was introduced in 1768 while the Gauckler–Manning coefficient was first developed in 1865, well before the classical pipe flow resistance experiments in the 1920–1930s. Historically both the Chézy and the Gauckler–Manning coefficients were expected to be constant and functions of the roughness only. But it is now well recognised that these coefficients are only constant for a range of flow rates. Most friction coefficients (except perhaps the Darcy–Weisbach friction factor) are estimated \"100% empirically\" and they apply only to fully rough turbulent water flows under steady flow conditions.\n\nOne of the most important applications of the Manning equation is its use in sewer design. Sewers are often constructed as circular pipes. It has long been accepted that the value of \"n\" varies with the flow depth in partially filled circular pipes. A complete set of explicit equations that can be used to calculate the depth of flow and other unknown variables when applying the Manning equation to circular pipes is available. These equations account for the variation of \"n\" with the depth of flow in accordance with the curves presented by Camp.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2235146", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2235146", "title": "Lublin R-VIII", "text": "Lublin R-VIII\n\nThe Lublin R-VIII was a Polish bomber, reconnaissance aircraft and seaplane designed in the late 1920s by the Plage i Laśkiewicz factory in Lublin. It was the first in-house design of Plage i Laśkiewicz, and the first with the name Lublin.\n\nThe aircraft was designed in answer to a request of the Polish Air Force for a heavy single-engine reconnaissance and bomber airplane. Work started in 1926. The main designer was Jerzy Rudlicki (the letter \"R\" in the designation for his name). The prototype R-VIII was flown in March, 1928. It was fitted with a Farman 12We W-12 engine, but in tests proved to be underpowered. In July 1928 the second prototype was completed with a more powerful Lorraine-Dietrich 18Kd engine. In August 1928 it flew in the Aviation Contest of the Little Entente and Poland. It achieved the best result in trials of carrying a payload ( to an altitude of .\n\nIn 1929, the Polish Aviation Department of War Ministry ordered four aircraft with the designation R-VIIIa. They were built in early 1930. One was fitted with a Lorraine-Dietrich engine, the rest with the Hispano-Suiza 12Lb. More were not ordered, as the aircraft had good performance when carrying only a limited payload and fuel reserve (which limited its range), when it carried more bombs, or maximum fuel load, its performance was poor.\n\nThe prototypes and serial production aircraft were used by the Polish Air Force only for a short time. In August–September 1930, three R-VIIIa flew in the Aviation Contest of the Little Entente and Poland, taking a mediocre 7th and 9th places. In service, both Lorraine-Dietrich-powered aircraft crashed - in 1930 and 1931.\n\nIn 1932, the existing R-VIIIs were converted to floatplanes for the Polish Navy. The first prototype was fitted with Lorraine-Dietrich engine and was designated R-VIII bis (Aircraft number 801). Two aircraft with Hispano-Suiza engines were designated R-VIII ter (numbers 802 and 803). The fourth aircraft was broken into spare parts. The maximum speed of the floatplane variant was lowered to 200 km/h. They were also called R-VIII/hydro.\n\nA six-seat passenger aircraft, the R-IX, was developed in 1929, based on the R-VIII, but it remained a prototype.\n\nThe R-VIII floatplanes were used by the Polish Naval Aviation Squadron (\"MDLot\") in Puck from 1933, in a long reconnaissance escadre. From 1938, they were assigned to training, and were scheduled for withdrawal from service. They survived until the Invasion of Poland in 1939, but the R-VIII bis had its engine removed by then. After the first German air raid on naval aviation base in Puck on September 1, all floatplanes were evacuated from Puck to the Hel Peninsula (the bulk were Lublin R-XIIIs). Since R-VIIIs were quite obsolete by then, they were not used in combat. They were anchored on Puck Bay by Chalupy on Hel Peninsula, near the base of the peninsula, where they were bombed by Stukas on September 8.\n\nWooden construction biplane, conventional in layout. A fuselage was rectangular in cross-section, plywood covered. Wings canvas and plywood covered, upper wing of greater span. Crew of two, sitting in tandem in an open cockpit, with twin controls (three crewmen could be carried as well, with radio operator). Conventional fixed landing gear, with a rear skid, or two Short floats.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2235149", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2235149", "title": "HB Ice Cream", "text": "HB Ice Cream\n\nHB Ice Cream (originally an acronym for both Hughes Brothers and Hazelbrook Farm) is an ice cream brand in Ireland and is part of the Unilever Group's Heartbrand ice cream brand.\n\nIt manufactures most of the Heartbrand's ice cream range, as well as some products designed exclusively for the Irish market, including the Hazelbrook Farm range of blocks of ice-cream.\n\nIn Northern Ireland, both HB and Wall's ice-cream (the UK variant of the Heartbrand) are available, and in recent years have been promoted together as HB Wall's.\n\nThe company was founded in 1926 as Hughes Brothers by James, George, and William Hughes at Hazelbrook Farm in Churchtown, Dublin. The name Hazelbrook Farm was dropped during World War II but brought back in the late 1980s except that it was called \"HB Originals\" (2002-2005). In 1964, the milk distribution operations of HB were transferred to Premier Dairies. The rest of the company was sold to W. R. Grace and Company and subsequently became part of Unilever in 1973. HB also made sweets and chocolate too at phases. In (2002-2003) they made Frozen Yogurts. \n\nIn 2003, the HB Ice Cream plant in Churchtown was closed with the loss of 180 jobs.\n\nHazelbrook House, the Hughes family farmhouse, was moved to Bunratty Folk Park in 2001, where it is now on display and open to the public.\n\nIn 2016 the brand celebrated its 90th birthday, and all television adverts since 1961 for HB returned to television screens. During the late 1970s & early 1980s popular phrases included \"2 Letters Spell Ireland's Favorite Ice Cream\", \"Still The Favorite\" during the mid-1980s while some adverts were used for Wall's in England, Miko in France and other sister brands. During the mid 1990s there were Cool Bits lolly pop like a sweet. On 26 April 2017 many of the adverts from the 1960s and 1970s were made available to the Irish Film Archive you will find them on the Irish Film Archives player.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2235155", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2235155", "title": "John H. Edmison", "text": "John H. Edmison\n\nJohn Henry Edmison (April 5, 1875 – March 22, 1932) was a doctor and politician in Manitoba, Canada. He served in the Legislative Assembly of Manitoba from 1922 to 1932.\n\nEdmison was born in Waterdown, Ontario (now Hamilton, Ontario, the son of Reverend Henry Edmison, and was educated in Owen Sound, at Queen's University and at the University of Manitoba. He had a professional medical degree, and worked as a physician. In 1901, he married May A. McMillan.\n\nHe was first elected to the Manitoba legislature in the 1922 provincial election, for the constituency of Brandon City. In the previous election, vote-splitting between the Liberal and Conservative parties in Brandon had resulted in the election of Albert E. Smith, a candidate of the Labour Party. In 1922, Edmison ran as an independent endorsed by both the Liberals and Conservatives, and defeated Smith by 1,221 votes.\n\nEdmison remained an independent throughout his time in the legislature. He was re-elected in the 1927 election, defeating candidates of the Labour and Progressive parties. Once again, neither the Liberals nor Conservatives fielded a candidate against him.\n\nHe died at home in Brandon shortly before the 1932 election.\n"}
{"id": "2235160", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2235160", "title": "MNDO", "text": "MNDO\n\nMNDO, or Modified Neglect of Diatomic Overlap is a semi-empirical method for the quantum calculation of molecular electronic structure in computational chemistry. It is based on the Neglect of Diatomic Differential Overlap integral approximation. Similarly, this method replaced the earlier MINDO method. It is part of the MOPAC program and was developed in the group of Michael Dewar. It is also part of the AMPAC, GAMESS (US), PC GAMESS, GAMESS (UK), Gaussian, ORCA and CP2K programs.\n\nLater, it was essentially replaced by two new methods, PM3 and AM1, which are similar but have different parameterisation methods.\n\nThe extension by W. Thiel's group, called MNDO/d, which adds d functions, is widely used for organometallic compounds. It is included in GAMESS (UK).\n\nMNDOC, also from W. Thiel's group, explicitly adds correlation effects though second order perturbation theory with the parameters fitted to experiment from the correlated calculation. In this way, the method should give better results for systems where correlation is particularly important and different from that in the ground state molecules from the MNDO training set. This include excited states and transition states. However Cramer (see reference below) argues that \"the model has not been compared to other NDDO models to the degree necessary to evaluate whether the formalism lives up to that potential.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2235167", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2235167", "title": "Universal Corporation", "text": "Universal Corporation\n\nUniversal Corporation () is one of the world's leading tobacco merchants. Incorporated in 1918, Universal has headquarters in Richmond, Virginia, in the United States. \n\nUniversal buys, sells, and processes flue-cured and burley tobacco. It also holds a 49% interest in Socotab, LLC, a large dealer in oriental leaf tobaccos. The company does not manufacture cigarettes or other consumer tobacco products, although its largest customer is Altria Group (owner of Philip Morris USA).\n\nUniversal common stock is part of the S&P 600 index.\n\nAfter the 1911 breakup of the American Tobacco Company trust, Jacquelin (sic) P. Taylor incorporated Universal out of six formerly independent leaf merchants.\n\nIn 2010, Universal along with Alliance One International were accused of violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977. The company is alleged to have paid US$10,000 to the wife of an official in the Mozambique Ministry of Agriculture to secure favorable tax treatment in that country. In 2010, Universal paid about $10 million in restitution and penalties to settle the charges.\n\nOn January 3, 2020 Universal purchased FruitSmart.\n\n"}
{"id": "2235169", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2235169", "title": "Austin Model 1", "text": "Austin Model 1\n\nAustin Model 1, or AM1, is a semi-empirical method for the quantum calculation of molecular electronic structure in computational chemistry. It is based on the Neglect of Differential Diatomic Overlap integral approximation. Specifically, it is a generalization of the modified neglect of differential diatomic overlap approximation. Related methods are PM3 and the older MINDO.\n\nAM1 was developed by Michael Dewar and co-workers and published in 1985. AM1 is an attempt to improve the MNDO model by reducing the repulsion of atoms at close separation distances. The atomic core-atomic core terms in the MNDO equations were modified through the addition of off-center attractive and repulsive Gaussian functions. \n\nThe complexity of the parameterization problem increased in AM1 as the number of parameters per atom increased from 7 in MNDO to 13-16 per atom in AM1. \n\nThe results of AM1 calculations are sometimes used as the starting points for parameterizations of forcefields in molecular modelling.\n\nAM1 is implemented in the MOPAC, AMPAC, Gaussian, CP2K, GAMESS (US), PC GAMESS, GAMESS (UK), and SPARTAN programs.\n\nAn extension of AM1 is SemiChem Austin Model 1 (SAM1), which is implemented in the AMPAC program and which explicitly treats d-orbitals.\n\nA model for the AM1 calculation of lanthanide complexes, called Sparkle/AM1, was also introduced and is implemented in MOPAC2007.\n\nAM1 has been recently reparameterized, leading to the new RM1, or Recife Model 1, available in MOPAC2007, SPARTAN software, Hyperchem 8, etc.\n\nAn extension of AM1 is AM1* that is available in VAMP software.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2235173", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2235173", "title": "Inverness High School", "text": "Inverness High School\n\nInverness High School is a secondary school on Montague Row in Inverness, Scotland.\n\nFrom a peak of over 1,600 pupils, the school's current roll is around 450. Its feeders are Central, Dalneigh, Bishop Eden's, St Joseph's and Merkinch Primary Schools. It is situated west of the river and west of \"Kenneth Street\" (A82).\n\nIn 2005, it became one of the first twenty eight schools in Scotland to be awarded Schools of Ambition status.\n\nThe current Rector at Inverness High School is John Rutter, who succeeded Ritchie Cunningham who retired after 23 and a half years as Rector in April 2014. Cunningham held the title of longest serving Rector in the Highlands. Mr Rutter's two deputes are Ms. Fife and Mrs. Huggan.\n\nAfter occupying various sites around the city, it moved to its current location, in Dalneigh, in 1937. At that time, it was renamed the Technical High School and specialised in providing vocational courses. It kept this name until 1959 when it adopted its current name. In 2008 there was a temporary closure when a fire started in the Assembly Hall. Luckily, it was a night time and during the Annual October break.\n\nGary Cornish, Scottish Heavyweight Boxer.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2235180", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2235180", "title": "Frances Winfield", "text": "Frances Winfield\n\nFrances Winfield, was an American author and spokesperson.\n\nWinfield was born in Saint Paul, Minnesota in 1942, and grew up in St. Louis and Old Greenwich, Connecticut. Winfield met her husband, Paul Bremer at a Dixieland concert. The two became college sweethearts and married in 1966. Bremer, a State Department official, served as the Administrator of the Coalition Provisional Authority of Iraq, Coordinator for Counterterrorism, United States Ambassador to the Netherlands, and Executive Secretary of the United States Department of State.\n\nA devout Roman Catholic, she and her husband were extraordinary ministers of Holy Communion at their local parish in Maryland. They had two adult children.\n\nAfter being diagnosed with Fibromyalgia, Winfield she became a spokeswoman for the National Fibromyalgia Association.\n\nWinfield died on April 21, 2019 in Chevy Chase, Maryland.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2235192", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2235192", "title": "ParticipACTION", "text": "ParticipACTION\n\nParticipACTION is a national non-profit organization, originally launched as a Canadian government program in the 1970s, to promote healthy living and physical fitness. It shut down due to financial cutbacks in 2001, but was revived on February 19, 2007 with a grant of $5 million from the Canadian federal government.\n\nParticipACTION emerged from Sport Participation Canada, a non-profit organization formed on July 12, 1971 in response to a 1969 study commissioned by the National Advisory Council for Fitness and Amateur Sport that found that the future of Canadian health was at risk from poor physical fitness and apathy on the part of Canadians. Council Chair Philippe de Gaspé Beaubien recommended that the Government of Canada provide seed money for an independent agency with public and private funding that would work to promote physical fitness. Lou Lefaive from Sport Canada was assigned to assist in its founding. Marketing consultant Keith McKerracher was appointed to lead the new organization.\n\nFormer Prime Minister of Canada Lester B. Pearson chaired the board from 1971 to 1972, while Philippe de Gaspé Beaubien served as president. In 1972, the company was nationalized by then-Prime Minister Pierre Trudeau to battle exorbitant health care costs. The resulting government program was renamed ParticipACTION.\n\nA 1973 commercial, comparing the health of a 30-year-old Canadian to a 60-year-old Swede, started a national discussion on the state of physical education in Canada. The spot had its origin in juxtaposed pages of a book by Dr. Roy Shephard, then the Director of the Graduate Programme in Exercise Science the University of Toronto. On one page, a table of international fitness comparisons showed Swedes at the top of the ranking and Canadians significantly lower in the list; on the other side, an illustration showed that a sixty-year-old active man could be as fit as a sedentary thirty-year-old. When Russ Kisby (an early hire of McKerracher) showed McKerracher the book, the separate ideas were fused into the famous PSA. The ensuing outcry of alarm and embarrassment triggered a debate in the Parliament of Canada.\n\nIn the 1990’s ParticipACTION became well-known for its television public service announcements (PSAs) such as Body Break hosted by Hal Johnson and Joanne McLeod. Since 2018, the organization has shifted its focus, asking Canadians, “What do you want to do better?” (Sleep better, focus better, etc) with the underlying idea being that everything gets better, when you get active. This campaign won Shopper Innovation and Marketing awards in 2020. The organization provides guidance to help Canadians achieve whatever “better” they wish to achieve, making physical activity part of Canadians’ everyday lives.  \n\nIn 2019, the organization launched the ParticipACTION app which  distinguishes itself by providing research and evidence-based health and fitness articles along with exercise how-tos in tandem with fitness tracking capabilities. App users receive weekly, monthly and quarterly prizes for doing things like getting active, reading or watching content in the app or sharing these things with others via social media, text or email.\n\nThe organization runs a variety of other initiatives as well to support its vision:\n\n\nParticipACTION was led by President and CEO Kelly Murumets from 2007 until 2014, when Elio Antunes was named to lead the organization.\n\nLack of physical education\n\n"}
{"id": "2235196", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2235196", "title": "Rolland Smith", "text": "Rolland Smith\n\nRolland G. Smith (born December 6, 1941) is an American former television news reporter and anchor who is best known for his time in New York, where he was based for most of his long career.\n\nSmith's earliest broadcasting job was for Metromedia Television, where he served as White House correspondent for WTTG. Metromedia would later transfer him to New York, where he would become co-anchor of WNEW-TV's 10 PM newscast.\n\nSmith departed Metromedia for CBS in 1970, and instantly became a reporter and anchor for WCBS. In 1973 Smith was named co-anchor of WCBS' evening newscasts, a position he held for 13 years. His 11 PM co-anchors included Dave Marash (1973–1978 and 1981–1982) and Vic Miles (1978–1979), before Michele Marsh joined him for the balance of his run with channel 2. Starting in late 1975, he was teamed with Jim Jensen on the 6 PM newscast, a partnership that remained until Smith's departure from the station.\n\nHe left WCBS when he was promoted to co-host of CBS' \"The Morning Program\" in January 1987. Smith left CBS that December after the show was canceled. Following this he moved to WWOR, and in early 1988 he became the lead anchor of the station's 10 PM newscast replacing Tom Dunn. Smith would leave WWOR in 1993 and moved from New York for the first time since his transfer from Washington, as he relocated to San Diego to take an anchor position at NBC affiliate KNSD. This was the first time Smith had worked for a network-affiliated station since his 1987 departure from WCBS (WWOR, at the time, was an independent and was a year away from gaining any affiliation). He stayed with KNSD until 1997 and returned to New York, but did not immediately return to television.\n\nAfter a four-year absence (which included a brief stint at WRNN), Smith rejoined WWOR as lead anchor following Ernie Anastos' departure to return to WCBS. He eventually moved to weekends as the co-anchor of the station's now-former Saturday and Sunday newscasts. In addition to his anchor duties, on each newscast he provided a small commentary that would be accompanied by his signature superimposed on screen. After a long career Smith announced his retirement in 2006, ending a nearly 40-year career with 11 Emmy Awards for his body of work.\n\nIn addition to his news career, Smith is a published poet with several books and CDs of his writings in print. As a part of WWOR during its time being owned by MCA, he made a cameo appearance in the now-extinct \"King Kong Encounter\" at Universal Studios Hollywood.\n\nThis obscure-in-origin catchphrase among both \"Star Wars\" and \"South Park\" fans traces its origins to Rolland Smith. \"Star Wars Holiday Special\" is commercially unavailable except for the bootleg copies of home VHS and Betamax recordings of the show's one-time airing. Among the most widely circulated recordings is one made from the broadcast on WCBS-TV, though recordings of the broadcast from many other CBS affiliates as well as overseas broadcasters abound.\n\nDuring the WCBS broadcast, a young mustachioed Smith appears during a number of commercial breaks in a \"teaser\" for the upcoming 11 PM newscast, where he simply says \"\"Fighting the frizzies, at 11\"\", probably in reference to a story on hair care. The creators of \"South Park\", Matt Stone and Trey Parker - both huge fans of the \"Star Wars\" special - incorporated scenes of South Park editor Tom Vogt dressed as a news anchor resembling Smith in a \"South Park\" holiday episode. The episode opened with the line being deadpanned by Vogt, and each segment of the show began with the line (or some variation of it). The episode ended with the anchor fighting a hairy creature.\n\n"}
{"id": "2235200", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2235200", "title": "PM3 (chemistry)", "text": "PM3 (chemistry)\n\nPM3, or Parametric Method 3, is a semi-empirical method for the quantum calculation of molecular electronic structure in computational chemistry. It is based on the Neglect of Differential Diatomic Overlap integral approximation. \n\nThe PM3 method uses the same formalism and equations as the AM1 method. The only differences are:\n1) PM3 uses two Gaussian functions for the core repulsion function, instead of the variable number used by AM1 (which uses between one and four Gaussians per element); \n2) the numerical values of the parameters are different. The other differences lie in the philosophy and methodology used during the parameterization: whereas AM1 takes some of the parameter values from spectroscopical measurements, PM3 treats them as optimizable values.\n\nThe method was developed by J. J. P. Stewart and first published in 1989. It is implemented in the MOPAC program (of which the older versions are public domain), along with the related RM1, AM1, MNDO and MINDO methods, and in several other programs such as Gaussian, CP2K, GAMESS (US), GAMESS (UK), PC GAMESS, Chem3D, AMPAC, ArgusLab, BOSS, and SPARTAN.\n\nThe original PM3 publication included parameters for the following elements: H, C, N, O, F, Al, Si, P, S, Cl, Br, and I. \n\nThe PM3 implementation in the SPARTAN program includes PM3tm with additional extensions for transition metals supporting calculations on Ca, Ti, V, Cr, Mn, Fe, Co, Ni, Cu, Zn, Zr, Mo, Tc, Ru, Rh, Pd, Hf, Ta, W, Re, Os, Ir, Pt, and Gd. Many other elements, mostly metals, have been parameterized in subsequent work.\n\nA model for the PM3 calculation of lanthanide complexes, called Sparkle/PM3, was also introduced.\n\n"}
{"id": "2235216", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2235216", "title": "Pikehall", "text": "Pikehall\n\nPikehall is a small village in the Derbyshire Dales consisting of a few dozen households and a handful of farms. The population of the village is included in the civil parish of Hartington Nether Quarter. The A5012 road runs through the middle, dividing the village in half. The village is home to the annual Y Not Festival.\n\nPikehall is noted for its twice yearly harness racing, a major tourist attraction in the area. Since the first meeting in 1998 the number of spectators has increased. At the meeting on 12 June 2005 there were estimated to be around 2,000 spectators. Pikehall has been named as the British Harness Racing Clubs meeting of the Year for two years.\n\n"}
{"id": "2235222", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2235222", "title": "Orange Rhyming Dictionary", "text": "Orange Rhyming Dictionary\n\nOrange Rhyming Dictionary is the debut album by American rock band Jets to Brazil, released October 27, 1998 on Jade Tree Records. It was recorded at Easley McCain Recording in Memphis, Tennessee. It was engineered and produced by J. Robbins along with Stuart Sikes.\n\nThe album was the first official release by Blake Schwarzenbach since the breakup of Jawbreaker two years earlier, marking a departure from punk rock he was known for in favour of a more indie rock sound. Although the new sound was met by mixed reception from Jawbreaker fans, \"Orange Rhyming Dictionary\" generated a new dedicated fan base for Jets to Brazil from both Jawbreaker and non-Jawbreaker fans alike.\n\nGuitarist Brian Maryansky did not appear on the recording of the album, joining the band soon after the album was recorded. The final track from \"Orange Rhyming Dictionary, \"\"Sweet Avenue\" is often mistakenly attributed to the singer Damien Rice due to regular misattribution on peer-to-peer file sharing networks.\n\nThe name of the album is a play on the fact that, in the English language, there are no words that perfectly rhyme with \"orange\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2235225", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2235225", "title": "Motorhead (song)", "text": "Motorhead (song)\n\n\"Motorhead\" is a song written by Ian \"Lemmy\" Kilmister while he was a member of the English space rock band Hawkwind. It was later recorded by (and was the eponym for) Motörhead, as he called it this instead of \"Bastard\" on his then manager's advice.\n\n\"Motorhead\" was the last song that Lemmy wrote for Hawkwind before being fired from the band in May 1975. It was originally released as the B-side of the single \"Kings of Speed\" on United Artists Records in March 1975.\n\nThe song was written in the Hyatt Hotel (a.k.a. 'Riot House') in West Hollywood, California. Lemmy explains how it was created:\nI was on tour with Hawkwind in 1974, we were staying at the Riot House and Roy Wood and Wizzard were also in town. I got this urge to write a song in the middle of the night. I ran downstairs to the Wizzard room, got Roy's Ovation acoustic guitar, then hurried back to mine. I went on to the balcony and howled away for four hours. Cars were stopping and the drivers were listening then driving off, and there I was yelling away at the top of my voice.\" - Lemmy.\n\nThe title of the song is British slang for a speed freak. The lyrics were explained by Lemmy:\nThe six thousand miles was a reference to Los Angeles, and the rest is self-explanatory. And yes, I am the only person to fit the word 'parallelogram' into a rock'n'roll number! I'm very proud of that.\n\nThe guitars and bass are tuned down a half-step on the Hawkwind version, effectively making the song's key E♭ Major, but are described here as if in standard tuning. The bass follows the root note for all the chords, with a riff on the F♯, based on the A string between the tenth and twelfth frets. The introduction is in E, ending with two bars each in D and E♭. The verse is in E with a D/E 'kick' at the end of each lyric line, a pre-chorus follows, in G with two lines ending in D, the last in F♯. The chorus, like the pre-chorus is in G, but with only two lines, ending in D and F♯. The song consists of three verses in total.\n\nThere is a jazz-inspired violin solo break by keyboard player Simon House which, based on the verse/pre-chorus/chorus pattern, occurs after the second chorus.\n\nThe original backing tracks for \"Kings of Speed\" were taken by Dave Brock from the Olympic Studios recording session, and he later added overdubs and re-released it through independent record companies. In July 1981 \"Motorhead\" was released as the A-side to a 7\" and 12\" single on the Flicknife label, this time having a Brock vocal and synthesizer overdubs, the B-side being \"Valium Ten\". Flicknife re-released the single as a 12\" vinyl in October 1982.\n\n\"Motorhead\" was also used by Hawkwind on their 1986 single \"Motorhead\"/\"Hurry on Sundown\", released on Flicknife Records.\n\nFrom 1992 the song has been added to CD re-issues of Hawkwind's \"Warrior on the Edge of Time\" album. The song has also appeared on various compilation albums, such as \"British Tribal Music\", \"The Hawkwind Collection\" and \"The Hawkwind Anthology Vol. II\".\n\nThe song was re-recorded by Lemmy's subsequent band Motörhead and released on their 1977 debut album, \"Motörhead\". It was also chosen for release as a 7\" vinyl single in June 1977, although it failed to chart. Recorded at Escape Studios, Kent, it was initially issued with the 'Map of Chiswick' label, later it was switched to the 'Big Beat' label and pressed in other formats. Chiswick also released a special 12\" vinyl edition which was limited to 12,500 copies. In September 1979 Chiswick released a 7\" vinyl picture disc in two pressings, black & white, and blue & white as well as single colour pressings in black, blue, pink, orange and white vinyl.\n\nThe track \"Motorhead\" is credited to Lemmy, the B-side, \"City Kids\", to Duncan Sanderson and Larry Wallis. The band members in the recording were \"Fast\" Eddie Clarke on guitars and vocals, Phil \"Philthy Animal\" Taylor on drums, and Lemmy on bass and lead vocals. The single was produced by Speedy Keen and engineered by John Burns. The sleeve photographs are attributed to Motorcycle Irene.\n\nMotörhead recorded a live version, which was released as a 7\" vinyl single on 11 July 1981. It fared much better than the original single and reached number six in the UK Singles Charts. Whereas the previous recording plays in E major, this recording plays in E♭. The single uses recordings made in March 1981 while the band were on their four-day \"The Short, Sharp, Pain in the Neck Tour\", as were the other tracks on the parent album, \"No Sleep 'til Hammersmith\". Bronze Records released a 7\" picture disc, the A-side has the same picture as the cover and the B-side has a white Motörhead logo on black. A promotional 12\" vinyl single was released in the USA, with the album's \"No Class\" track as its B-side. This track has also been featured on unofficial releases, such as the 1993 Castle Communications double album compilation, \"All the Aces\", and Deadline Music's 1999 \"Golden Years - The Alternate Versions\", which was released under licence from Receiver Records.\n\nThe track \"Motorhead\" is credited to Lemmy, the track \"Over the Top\" to Lemmy, \"Fast\" Eddie Clarke, and Phil \"Philthy Animal\" Taylor. The band members are the same as on the previous recording.\n\nIn 1988 Castle Communications released a 3\" CD single of four Motörhead tracks, the inserts states track three is \"Motorhead\" but actually plays \"Jailbait\", the edition was limited to 5,000 copies.\n\nIn 2008, the song was re-recorded as downloadable content for the rhythm game \"\", along with \"Stay Clean\" and \"(We Are) The Road Crew\". This re-recorded version appeared as a Japanese bonus track on the compilation \"Under Cöver\", released in 2017.\n\n"}
{"id": "2235231", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2235231", "title": "1886–87 in English football", "text": "1886–87 in English football\n\nThe 1886–1887 season was the 16th season of competitive football (soccer) in England.\n\n\nEngland finished second in the 1887 British Home Championship, which was won by Scotland.\n<nowiki>*</nowiki> England score given first\n\nKey\n\n"}
{"id": "2235241", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2235241", "title": "M119 howitzer", "text": "M119 howitzer\n\nThe M119 howitzer is the US designation for the L118 light gun, a lightweight British 105 mm howitzer also used by the United States Army. It can be easily airlifted by helicopter, or dropped by parachute. It does not need a recoil pit.\n\nThe howitzer was designed and produced by the British Royal Ordnance Factories as the L118 light gun. In the L118 configuration, the 105 mm ammunition is cased separate loading ammunition (not semi-fixed projectile and propelling charge as sometimes stated). The L118 entered service with the British Army in 1976 and is used by parachute and commando field artillery regiments. It saw combat during the Falklands War, where the 30 guns in action fired up to 400 rounds per gun per day, mostly at \"charge super\"—i.e., the most powerful propellant charge available. The L119 is the L118 reconfigured to fire NATO-standard US/Nato 105 mm semi-fixed ammunition.\n\nIn 1987 an agreement was reached to produce the L119 under license by the US as the M119, to replace the M102 howitzer. It entered service with 7th Infantry Division, Fort Ord, California, in December 1989. Some improvements were made to produce the M119A1, including increasing its extreme low temperate envelope from −30 °C to −45 °C, improving maintainability. The Army renewed contracts for the M119 to be produced by the Rock Island Arsenal-Joint Manufacturing & Technology Center (RIA-JMTC) at Rock Island, Illinois into the year 2013. The 105 mm M20A1 cannon was produced by US Army Watervliet Arsenal.\n\nThe M119 is currently fielded with all Regular Army and National Guard infantry brigade combat teams, including those in the 10th Mountain, 82nd Airborne, and 101st Airborne divisions, and the 173rd Airborne Brigade Combat Team. Other divisions may be of mixed composition between armor, Stryker, and infantry brigade combat teams, with armor having M109A6s Paladins and Stryker having M777s for their fires battalions. For example, two of four are IBCTs with M119s in the 25th Infantry Division. National Guard light field artillery battalions assigned to IBCTs also have M119s, for example the 86th IBCT (Mountain) headquartered in Vermont. It is routinely airdropped in airborne operations and sling-loaded under CH-47 Chinook or UH-60 Black Hawk helicopters in air assault operations.\n\nIn April 2009, the M119A2 howitzer was being fielded by the 4th Infantry Combat Brigade of the 3rd Infantry Division to provide better support in operations in Afghanistan and Iraq. It was the only brigade in the division equipped with it, as the other three brigades were \"heavy\" brigades and therefore equipped with the M109A6 Paladin.\n\nAlpha Battery of the 1st Battalion, 320th Field Artillery Regiment, 101st Airborne Division received their first upgraded M119A3 howitzers in July 2013, and became the first unit to operate it in theater when they were deployed to northeast Afghanistan in early February 2014. The digitally upgraded M119A3 includes software and hardware component upgrades, GPS for navigation, a digital gunner's display, and digital communication between each gun and the fire direction center to speed up the process of receiving firing data and firing shells. Firing platoons were also equipped with larger, also digital M777A2 howitzers, and the M119A3 was more admired for being faster, lighter, and easier to change azimuth of fire. The A3-model retains manual capabilities of the A2-model, so occasions where digital capabilities were lost allowed crews to easily transition back to the analogue mode of operation and continue their missions.\n\nProject Manager for Towed Artillery Systems (PM TAS) has developed several upgrades for the M119A3 including digital fire control, increased low temperature capability from , and the M20 breech. The recoil system is also being upgraded, as the legacy system had reliability issues with the recuperator, buffer, and variable recoil linkage (which sets recoil length based on elevation); it had a lot of moving parts needing constant maintenance and adjustment during operations with high replacement rates of spares that are complex to manufacture and require specialized tooling to assemble, increasing costs and causing availability problems. The redesigned system operates the same, but modifies and simplifies some components, including a new buffer and recuperator with a majority of the components removed, and adds the Suspension Lockout System (SLOS) that fixes recoil length at , which removes variable-recoil hardware, reduces stress on the carriage, and lowers buffer rod forces; the new system reduces cost, number of parts by 40 percent to 75, and overall weight by .\n\nThe M119A1 fires all standard NATO semi-fixed ammunition as well as special rocket-assisted projectiles, including:\n\n\nThe M119 is towed in the US Army by the M1097 High Mobility Multi-Purpose Wheeled Vehicle (HMMWV).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2235242", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2235242", "title": "Hank Gathers", "text": "Hank Gathers\n\nEric Wilson \"Hank\" Gathers Jr. (February 11, 1967 – March 4, 1990) was an American college basketball player for the Loyola Marymount Lions in the West Coast Conference (WCC). As a junior in 1989, he became the second player in NCAA Division I history to lead the nation in scoring and rebounding in the same season. Gathers was a consensus second-team All-American as a senior in 1990. His No. 44 was retired by the Lions, who also placed a statue of him in his honor outside their home arena Gersten Pavilion.\n\nGathers began his college career with the USC Trojans, but transferred with teammate Bo Kimble to Loyola Marymount after his freshman year. Playing under Lions coach Paul Westhead and his fast-paced system, Gathers was a three-time first-team All-WCC selection. In his first season at Loyola Marymount University (LMU), he earned the first of two consecutive most valuable player (MVP) honors in the WCC Tournament. As a junior, he was named the WCC Player of the Year and began receiving All-American recognition. Early in his senior year in 1989–90, Gathers was diagnosed with an abnormal heartbeat after he collapsed during a game. He was placed on medication and returned a few weeks later, but he initially struggled, which he attributed to his medication. The dosage was gradually decreased, and his play recovered. Gathers died at age 23 after collapsing for the second time that season during the semifinals of the 1990 WCC Tournament.\n\nGathers was born to Lucille and Eric Gathers Sr. in Philadelphia. Growing up in the Raymond Rosen Projects, one of the toughest neighborhoods in Philadelphia, he stayed out of trouble by playing basketball.\n\nGathers played prep ball at Dobbins Technical High School, located among the housing projects in North Philadelphia. He was joined on the team by his younger brother, Derrick Gathers, Bo Kimble and Doug Overton. The Mustangs reached the Philadelphia Public League championship game in consecutive years, losing to a Pooh Richardson-led Benjamin Franklin High in 1984 before winning the title over Lionel Simmons' South Philadelphia High in 1985.\n\nGathers and Kimble were not friends until their senior year at Dobbins. Both of them were recruited to the University of Southern California by head coach Stan Morrison and his top assistant David Spencer. During a visit to USC, the two recruits were told that the area around campus was deemed a slum. Gathers and Kimble, however, considered the area to be a suburb compared to their home of Philadelphia. Gathers made up his mind early that he would join USC, while Kimble decided independently and only after spurning Temple late. They were joined on the Trojans by high school All-American, Tom Lewis, and Rich Grande as the \"Four Freshmen\" star recruiting class. Following an 11–17 season in 1985–86, Morrison and Spencer were fired despite having won the Pac-10 Conference the previous year. It was reported that the players would not remain unless certain conditions were met, including having a say in the next coaching staff.\n\nUSC hired George Raveling as the next head coach of the Trojans. Raveling gave the players a deadline to respond whether they would remain on the team. When they did not respond, he revoked the scholarships of Gathers, Kimble, and Lewis. Raveling's controversial statement was, \"You can't let the Indians run the reservation,\" he said. \"You've got to be strong, too. Sometimes you have to tell them that they have to exit.\" Kimble and Gathers transferred together from USC to LMU. Lewis transferred to Pepperdine. Grande remained at USC.\n\nDue to NCAA regulations, Gathers and Kimble could not play in the season following their transfer. They helped lead the Lions to a 28–4 record in 1987–88. Gathers led the team that year in both scoring and rebounding (averaging 22.5 points and 8.7 rebounds per game), was named first-team All-WCC and was awarded the WCC Tournament MVP. In the 1988–89 season, Gathers became the second player in NCAA Division I history to lead the nation in scoring and rebounding in the same season, averaging 32.7 points and 13.7 rebounds per game. He was named WCC Player of the Year and again won the WCC Tournament MVP. On December 30, 1988, he scored a career-high 49 points along with 26 rebounds in a 130–125 win over Nevada. After the season, he decided against declaring for the NBA draft.\n\nAs a senior in 1989–90, he was a candidate for national player of the year and projected as an NBA lottery pick. Gathers's head coach while at LMU, Paul Westhead, had instituted an extraordinarily fast-paced game plan. On offense, the Lions took numerous three-point shots, and typically shot the ball within 10 seconds of gaining possession. Their defense was a full-court press designed to force their opponents into a frenzied up-and-down game. Gathers's teams led Division I in scoring in 1988 (110.3 points per game), 1989 (112.5), and 1990 (122.4). LMU's 122.4 point per game in 1990 is still a record as of April 2012. As of April 2012, Loyola Marymount held the five highest combined score games in Division I history. Four of the five occurred during Gathers's career, including a record 331 in the 181–150 win over United States International University on January 31, 1989.\n\nAt and , Gathers was Loyola Marymount's strongest inside player. He had a high field goal percentage because he seldom shot from beyond . He used his power and quickness for follow-up baskets and scoring on fast breaks. \"I don't care much about the points,\" said Gathers. \"In fact, I should lead the nation in scoring because of my rebounding. Anybody can score 30 points a night if that's what he's concentrating on. But rebounding is special because it comes from the heart.\"\n\nOn December 9, 1989, Gathers collapsed at an LMU home game against UC Santa Barbara. He was found to have an abnormal heartbeat (exercise-induced ventricular tachycardia), and was prescribed a beta blocker, Inderal. However, Gathers felt that the medication adversely affected his play, and his dosage was gradually cut back. Originally prescribed at 240 milligrams per day, his Inderal dosage was cut to 40 mg per day over the next three months. Gathers returned after sitting out for three weeks and missing two games, and he averaged 29.3 minutes and 29.15 points in his 20 games through the remainder of the season. However, he struggled with his play for weeks after returning. His play recovered in a nationally televised game against LSU on February 3, 1990, when he scored 48 points along with 13 rebounds while being guarded by future NBA first-round draft picks Stanley Roberts and Shaquille O'Neal in a 148–141 overtime loss. The Lions won seven of their next eight games, and Gathers recorded a career-high 30 rebounds against Saint Mary's.\n\nOn February 26, 1990, as the WCC Tournament neared, Gathers's medication was reduced one last time from 80 to 40 mg, on the condition that he undergo testing in a couple of days to determine if it was safe and effective at suppressing the arrhythmias. He did not show up for his test that week and avoided calls from his cardiologist's office. On March 2, he had a long talk with the cardiologist, who told him to play and come in for the testing after the tournament concluded. It was later suspected Gathers was not taking any dosage on game days. The following day in the WCC tournament quarterfinals in Los Angeles, he recorded 28 points and 11 rebounds in a 121–84 win over Gonzaga.\n\nOn Sunday, March 4, Gathers collapsed again with 13:34 left in the first half of the semifinal game against the Portland Pilots. He had just scored a dunk on an alley-oop pass from point guard Terrell Lowery that put the Lions up 25–13. Thirteen seconds later while positioned around midcourt in the Lions' fullcourt press, he collapsed a yard or two away from Pilots point guard Erik Spoelstra. He attempted to get up, telling the athletic trainers, \"I don't want to lay down!\" Shortly after, he stopped breathing. Gathers was pronounced dead at a nearby hospital at 6:55 PM PST. He was 23 years old.\n\nMinutes after Gathers was taken to the hospital, the WCC commissioner suspended the game indefinitely. ESPN broadcast graphic footage of Gathers's collapse on \"SportsCenter\"; the network was at the game recording advance footage for the championship game it was scheduled to televise the next night. Late that night, the WCC canceled the tournament and awarded Loyola the conference's automatic bid to the NCAA Tournament due to its WCC regular season title.\n\nGathers was buried at the Mount Lawn Cemetery in Sharon Hill, Pennsylvania. An autopsy found that he suffered from a heart-muscle disorder, hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. His family later filed a $32.5 million lawsuit charging negligence. Loyola Marymount settled out of court for $1.4 million, while the cardiologist who treated Gathers settled for $1 million.\n\nLoyola Marymount was placed in the West Regional as the No. 11 seed in that season's NCAA tournament. Before the tournament, the right-handed Kimble vowed to shoot his first free throw of each game left-handed, in memory of Gathers. Though naturally right-handed, Gathers was a poor free-throw shooter and had switched to shooting them left-handed. The Lions advanced to the Elite Eight, including a victory over defending national champion Michigan, before falling to the eventual champions, UNLV. Kimble finished a perfect 3-for-3 on his left-handed free throws during the tournament. Both LMU's Cinderella story without Gathers and Kimble's left-handed tributes to him became part of NCAA tournament lore.\n\nGathers was named a consensus second-team All-America and first team All-WCC selection for the season. He finished his career averaging 28.0 points and making 59 percent of his field goals, which were both school records as of 2010. He also averaged 11.1 rebounds for his career. He was voted WCC Player of the Decade for the 1980s.\n\nGersten Pavilion, LMU's on-campus athletics facility, is known to Lions fans as \"Hank's House\", although that is not part of its official name. His No. 44 and Kimble's No. 30 were retired by LMU in a joint ceremony in 2000. In 2005, the entire 1989–90 team was inducted into Loyola Marymount's Hall of Fame. On February 29, 2020, four days before the 30th anniversary of his death, a statue of Gathers was unveiled outside Gersten Pavilion. The statue was created by Rotblatt-Amrany, which designed multiple statues outside of the Staples Center in Los Angeles, as well as the Michael Jordan statue in Chicago.\n\nGathers's life was dramatized in a 1992 TV movie, \"\", with Victor Love starring as Gathers. Gathers was part of the storyline in the ESPN film \"Guru of Go\" about Westhead, part of their \"30 for 30\" series.\n\nGathers's death reemerged in national news wires during the 2016 NBA Playoffs when Kimble, interviewed for the celebrity gossip website TMZ.com, urged that Miami Heat star Chris Bosh retire for health reasons. Bosh has been suffering from blood clotting issues that forced him to miss the last several months of both the 2014–15 and 2015–16 seasons, as well as the entirety of the 2016–17 season. While Bosh felt that he was healthy enough to continue playing, Kimble disagreed:There are so many other things he could do with his life. Hank Gathers had the same thing, Hank could have been a comedian, and actor or did speaking engagements. It's not worth the risk. I would just say absolutely not, don't do it. If Hank had the ability to do it again he wouldn't have paid the ultimate price ... I am sure [Bosh] has children and they are going to need their father around as much as possible.\n\n\nWCC\nLMU\n\n\nGathers's son Aaron Crump was age six when his father died. Crump received a reported $1.5 million from Gathers's wrongful-death lawsuits. He gained control of the money when he turned 18. It became a problem for Crump, who later described himself as a \"young black male with no guidance\" at that time. He pleaded guilty to aggravated assault with a weapon, and was in a state prison from 2007 until 2012. Crump became a salesperson. He also mentors children through the Hank Gathers Legacy Group that he founded.\n\nGathers's nephew, D. J. Rivera, played college basketball and led the America East Conference in scoring with the Binghamton Bearcats in 2008–09, when they won the conference for the first time and earned a bid to the NCAA tournament. Another nephew, Jordan Gathers, earned a bachelor's degree at St. Bonaventure University and played three seasons for their Bonnies basketball team from 2011 to 2014. He played a final season with Butler in 2015–16 as a graduate transfer.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2235244", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2235244", "title": "Open-channel flow", "text": "Open-channel flow\n\nOpen-channel flow, a branch of hydraulics and fluid mechanics, is a type of liquid flow within a conduit with a free surface, known as a channel. The other type of flow within a conduit is pipe flow. These two types of flow are similar in many ways but differ in one important respect: the free surface. Open-channel flow has a free surface, whereas pipe flow does not.\n\nOpen-channel flow can be classified and described in various ways based on the change in flow depth with respect to time and space. The fundamental types of flow dealt with in open-channel hydraulics are:\n\n\nThe behavior of open-channel flow is governed by the effects of viscosity and gravity relative to the inertial forces of the flow. Surface tension has a minor contribution, but does not play a significant enough role in most circumstances to be a governing factor. Due to the presence of a free surface, gravity is generally the most significant driver of open-channel flow; therefore, the ratio of inertial to gravity forces is the most important dimensionless parameter. The parameter is known as the Froude number, and is defined as:formula_1where formula_2 is the mean velocity, formula_3 is the characteristic length scale for a channel's depth, and formula_4 is the gravitational acceleration. Depending on the effect of viscosity relative to inertia, as represented by the Reynolds number, the flow can be either laminar, turbulent, or transitional. However, it is generally acceptable to assume that the Reynolds number is sufficiently large so that viscous forces may be neglected. \n\nIt is possible to formulate equations describing three conservation laws for quantities that are useful in open-channel flow: mass, momentum, and energy. The governing equations result from considering the dynamics of the flow velocity vector field formula_5 with components formula_6. In Cartesian coordinates, these components correspond to the flow velocity in the x, y, and z axes respectively.\nTo simplify the final form of the equations, it is acceptable to make several assumptions:\nThe general continuity equation, describing the conservation of mass, takes the form:formula_7where formula_8 is the fluid density and formula_9 is the divergence operator. Under the assumption of incompressible flow, with a constant control volume formula_10, this equation has the simple expression formula_11. However, it is possible that the cross-sectional area formula_12 can change with both time and space in the channel. If we start from the integral form of the continuity equation:formula_13it is possible to decompose the volume integral into a cross-section and length, which leads to the form:formula_14Under the assumption of incompressible, 1D flow, this equation becomes:formula_15By noting that formula_16 and defining the volumetric flow rate formula_17, the equation is reduced to:formula_18Finally, this leads to the continuity equation for incompressible, 1D open-channel flow:formula_19\nThe momentum equation for open-channel flow may be found by starting from the incompressible Navier-Stokes equations :formula_20where formula_21 is the pressure, formula_22 is the kinematic viscosity, formula_23 is the Laplace operator, and formula_24 is the gravitational potential. By invoking the high Reynolds number and 1D flow assumptions, we have the equations:formula_25The second equation implies a hydrostatic pressure formula_26, where the channel depth formula_27 is the difference between the free surface elevation formula_28 and the channel bottom formula_29. Substitution into the first equation gives:formula_30where the channel bed slope formula_31. To account for shear stress along the channel banks, we may define the force term to be:formula_32where formula_33 is the shear stress and formula_34 is the hydraulic radius. Defining the friction slope formula_35, a way of quantifying friction losses, leads to the final form of the momentum equation:formula_36\n\nTo derive an energy equation, note that the advective acceleration term formula_37 may be decomposed as:formula_38where formula_39 is the vorticity of the flow and formula_40 is the Euclidean norm. This leads to a form of the momentum equation, ignoring the external forces term, given by:formula_41Taking the dot product of formula_5 with this equation leads to:formula_43This equation was arrived at using the scalar triple product formula_44. Define formula_45 to be the energy density:formula_46Noting that formula_47 is time-independent, we arrive at the equation:formula_48Assuming that the energy density is time-independent and the flow is one-dimensional leads to the simplification:formula_49with formula_50 being a constant; this is equivalent to Bernoulli's principle. Of particular interest in open-channel flow is the specific energy formula_51, which is used to compute the hydraulic head formula_52 that is defined as:formula_53with formula_54 being the specific weight. However, realistic systems require the addition of a head loss term formula_55 to account for energy dissipation due to friction and turbulence that was ignored by discounting the external forces term in the momentum equation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2235246", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2235246", "title": "Luigi Traglia", "text": "Luigi Traglia\n\nLuigi Traglia (3 April 1895 – 22 November 1977) was an Italian Cardinal of the Roman Catholic Church. He served as Vicar General of Rome from 1965 to 1968, and Dean of the College of Cardinals from 1974 until his death. Traglia was elevated to the cardinalate in 1960.\n\nTraglia was born in Albano Laziale, and studied at the Pontifical Lateran University and Pontifical Gregorian University in Rome. He was ordained to the priesthood by Cardinal Basilio Pompili on 10 August 1917, and then finished his studies in 1919. While teaching at the Pontifical Urbaniana University from 1919 to 1936, Traglia was also an official of the Sacred Congregations of Seminaries and Universities and of the Propagation of the Faith from 1927 to 1930. On 18 August 1930, he became assessor and subpromoter-general of the faith in the latter congregation. He was raised to the rank of Domestic Prelate of His Holiness on 22 February 1932, and later Auditor of the Roman Rota on 17 September 1936.\n\nOn 21 December 1936, Mgr Traglia was appointed Vicar General of The Diocese of Rome and Titular Archbishop of \"Caesarea in Palaestina\". He received his episcopal consecration on 6 January 1937, from Cardinal Francesco Marchetti-Selvaggiani, with Archbishop Domenico Spolverini and Bishop Angelo Calabretta serving as co-consecrators, in the Lateran Basilica. Traglia was later named President of the Special Committee for the Marian Holy Year on 7 October 1953, and of the Commission for the first Roman synod in 1959.\n\nHe was created Cardinal-Priest of \"S. Andrea della Valle\" by Pope John XXIII in the consistory of 28 March 1960. Pope Paul VI later changed Traglia's titular church to that of \"San Lorenzo in Damaso\" on 28 April 1969. On 15 March 1972, he was elevated to Cardinal Bishop of Albano.\n\nFrom 1962 to 1965, Cardinal Traglia participated in the Second Vatican Council, during the course of which he served as a cardinal elector in the 1963 papal conclave that selected Pope Paul VI. He was named Vicar General of Rome on 30 March 1965. In this position, the Cardinal governed the diocese in the name of the Pope, who is the Bishop of Rome. After resigning as Cardinal Vicar on 9 January 1968, Traglia was appointed Apostolic Chancellor on the following 13 January. He resigned the post on 7 February 1973, not long before the office was abolished on 27 February of that same year. Traglia was elected and confirmed as Vice-Dean of the College of Cardinals on 24 March 1972, later ascending to Dean of the College of Cardinals and thus Cardinal Bishop of Ostia, while retaining his previous suburbicarian title, on 7 January 1974. On 24 December of that same year, he served as papal legate to the opening of the Holy Door at the Basilica of Saint Paul Outside the Walls.\n\nCardinal Traglia died in Rome in 1977.\n\n"}
{"id": "2235247", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2235247", "title": "Mick Fitzpatrick", "text": "Mick Fitzpatrick\n\nMichael Fitzpatrick (1893 – 8 October 1968) was an Irish republican, chief of staff of the Irish Republican Army (IRA) and Clann na Poblachta politician.\n\nBorn in Kilkenny in 1893 he was one of the 'driving forces' behind the anti-Treaty IRA in Dublin during the Irish Civil War. He was briefly the Officer commanding of the IRA's Dublin Brigade and was interned in 1923. During this period he was also involved with the first Communist Party of Ireland.\n\nFitzpatrick was a full-time official of the Grocers' trade union and secretary of its social club at the Banba Hall in Dublin's Parnell Square. He also managed the Balalaika Ballroom and restaurant in the same area.\n\nHe was the central figure in IRA contacts with the Soviet Union during the late 1920s and in 1927, he attended the first International Congress of the Friends of Soviet Russia (FOSR) in Moscow. In 1928 he helped establish an Irish section of the FOSR. During 1929 he was involved in launching the Irish Labour Defence League and the Workers' Revolutionary Party of Ireland. He was also involved in Comhairle na Poblachta, a body set up the same year to heal the rift between the military and political anti-Treaty forces in Ireland. He visited the Soviet Union again in 1932.\n\nFitzpatrick chaired the 1933 IRA General Army Convention (GAC). At the 1934 GAC he disagreed with the call for a Republican Congress and remained within the IRA. His union was involved in a strike with O'Mara's Bacon Shops in late 1934 in which the IRA intervened violently. During 1935 he was involved in the IRA's intervention in the Dublin transport strike.\n\nIn 1936 he was an unsuccessful candidate for Cumann Poblachta na hÉireann, a political party set up by the IRA. Fitzpatrick succeeded Tom Barry as chief of staff in 1937, only to be ousted by Seán Russell at the 1938 GAC.\n\nHe was involved in the launch of the Clann na Poblachta political party in 1946 and was a member of its national executive. At the 1948 general election, he was elected as a TD for Dublin North-West, winning 2,395 votes (10.3%). At the 1951 general election, he received 458 votes (1.9%) and lost his seat.\n\n"}
{"id": "2235249", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2235249", "title": "Indiranagar", "text": "Indiranagar\n\nIndiranagar is a medium-sized neighbourhood in east Bangalore, Karnataka, India. It is one of Bangalore's newer areas. It is bounded by the Ulsoor to the west, Domlur to the south, Byappanahalli to the north and Vimanapura to the east. Indiranagar is one of the most expensive localities in Bangalore.\n\nIndiranagar was formed as a BDA layout in the late 1970s, and was named after the former Prime Minister of India Indira Gandhi. In the beginning, the locality was primarily a suburb, dotted with large bungalows and independent houses, mostly owned by defence personnel and public sector employees.\n\nThe Information Technology boom in Bengaluru in the late 1990s converted Indiranagar and its two arterial roads (100 Feet Road and Chinmaya Mission Hospital Road) into a semi-commercial area. Today, Indiranagar is an important residential and commercial hub of Bengaluru.\n\nIndiranagar is divided into 2 stages, with the 1st stage being the largest. The villages which existed prior to the formation of Indiranagar such as Binnamangala, Lakshmipuram, Motappanapalya, Appareddy Palya, Doopanahalli, Kodihalli and Thippasandra as well as the neighbouring BDA layouts such as HAL 2nd Stage and HAL 3rd Stage are often considered as a part of Indiranagar.\n\nThe Indiranagar Sangeetha Sabha organizes Music & Dance programs. It also conducts promotional activities, seminars, puppet shows and annual cultural programs like vocal and instrumental music concerts. Sangeetha Sabha constructed Purandhara Bhavan which promotes performing arts, theater and drama. Close to the Sangeetha Sabha one can find the Indiranagar Club spread across 2.5 acres of land. Membership fee is high at 10 lakh rupees and the club boasts of some of the best gym and work out equipment, yoga clubs, tennis courts, basketball ground, billiards tables, an exclusive cards room and a small library. Indiranagar has the Defence Colony Playground, located next to the Defence Colony Children's Park and the Old People's Park; the Defence Colony Park maintained by DECORA is close by. There are three big schools: National Public School, The Frank Anthony Public School and New Horizon Public School within the residential locality, as well as the Sri Rakum School for the Blind.\nOn top of this, Indiranagar is also famous for having 100 ft. road, which has several high end fashion brands as well as bars and pubs. This tends to be a major meeting point for people between the ages of 25-30.\n\nThe Namma Metro Purple Line runs through Indiranagar and has two stations within the neighbourhood – Indiranagar and Swami Vivekananda Road. Indiranagar is well connected to most areas of Bengaluru with the buses of the BMTC, which also maintains a bus depot in the area.\n\nLocalities of Indiranagar include HAL 1st, 2nd and 3rd Stages, Michaelpalya, Defence Colony, Jeevanbheemanagar, Kodihalli, Kasturi Nagar, Old/New Thippasandra, GM Palya, CV Raman Nagar, Old Madras Road, Ulsoor, Murugeshpalya, Old Airport Road and Konena Agrahara.\n"}
{"id": "2235259", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2235259", "title": "Voivodeship of Serbia and Banat of Temeschwar", "text": "Voivodeship of Serbia and Banat of Temeschwar\n\nThe Voivodeship of Serbia and Banat of Temeschwar or Serbian Voivodeship and the Banate of Temes (), known simply as the Serbian Voivodeship (), was a province (duchy) of the Austrian Empire that existed between 1849 and 1860.\n\nIt was a separate crown land named after two former provinces: Serbian Vojvodina and Banat of Temes. Its former area is now divided between Serbia, Romania and Hungary. The Voivodeship gave its name to the present Serbian Autonomous Province of Vojvodina.\n\nIn contemporary German, the duchy was officially known as ' or '. In contemporary Serbian it was known as \"Vojvodina Srbska i Tamiški Banat\" (Войводина Србска и Тамишки Банат) and \"Vojvodstvo Srbija i Tamiški Banat\" (Војводство Србија и Тамишки Банат). In Hungarian it was known as ', and in Romanian as '.\n\nIn various sources (both, Serbian and German) there are two somewhat different variants of the name of the voivodeship, one could be translated into English as \"Voivodeship of Serbia and Temes Banat\" and another as \"Serbian Voivodeship and Temes Banat\".\n\nAlso in modern English use, the term \"Temes Banat\" or \"Banat of Temes\" is sometimes incorrectly replaced with term \"Banat of Temeschwar\" or \"Temeschwar Banat\". In the original name in all native languages, there is no mention of the city of Temeschwar (Timișoara) in the title of Voivodeship. As shown above, the reference to the Temes region is always used, and should be translated into English as \"Temes Banat\" or \"Banat of Temes\".\n\nThe Voivodeship was formed by a decision of the Austrian emperor in November 1849, after the Revolutions of 1848/1849. It was formed in accordance with privilege given to Serbs by the Habsburg emperor in 1691, recognizing the right of Serbs to territorial autonomy within the Habsburg Monarchy.\n\nIt consisted of the regions of Banat, Bačka and northern Syrmian municipalities of Ilok and Ruma. An Austrian governor seated in Temeschwar ruled the area, and the title of Voivode belonged to the emperor himself. The full title of the emperor was \"Grand Voivod of the Voivodeship of Serbia\" (German: \"Großwoiwode der Woiwodschaft Serbien\"). Even after the Voivodeship was abolished, the emperor kept this title until the end of Austro-Hungarian Monarchy in 1918.\nIn 1860, the Voivodeship of Serbia and Temes Banat was abolished and most of its territory (Banat and Bačka) was incorporated into the Habsburg Kingdom of Hungary, although direct Hungarian rule began only in 1867, after the Austro-Hungarian Compromise. Unlike Banat and Bačka, in 1860 Syrmia was incorporated into the Kingdom of Slavonia, another separate Habsburg crown land. Kingdom of Slavonia subsequently joined with the Kingdom of Croatia forming new kingdom named Croatia-Slavonia, which made a pact with the Kingdom of Hungary in 1868, hence becoming self-governed part of the Kingdom of Hungary within Austria-Hungary.\n\nThe two official languages of the Voivodeship were German and \"Illyrian\" (what would come to be known as Serbo-Croatian).\n\nThe Voivodeship was ethnically very mixed, since the southern parts of Syrmia, Banat and Bačka with compact Serbian settlements were not included in it, while eastern Banat, with a Romanian majority was added to it.\n\nAccording to the 1846 census, the territory that in 1849 formed the voivodeship included:\n\nIn 1857, population of the voivodeship numbered 1,526,105 inhabitants, including:\n\nAccording to the 1850/51 census, ethnic composition of the voivodeship was as follows:\n\n(*) Total number of \"Illyrian Slavs\" (Serbs, Bunjevci, Šokci, and Croats) was 386,906.\n\nAccording to another source, in 1850/1851, the population of the voivodeship numbered 1,426,221 inhabitants, including:\n\nBy religious makeup:\n\nIn 1851, population of the voivodeship numbered 1,426,221 inhabitants, including:\n\nIn 1860, population of the voivodeship numbered 1,525,523 inhabitants, including:\n\nAt first, Voivodeship was divided into two districts: \n\nLater, it was divided into five districts:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2235263", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2235263", "title": "Ian Williams (musician)", "text": "Ian Williams (musician)\n\nIan Williams (born August 31, 1970) is an American rock guitarist. He became noted for his finger tapping guitar playing in bands such as Don Caballero, Storm & Stress and currently in Battles. He is known for his one-handed guitar playing technique, often while playing keyboards or Ableton Push simultaneously with the other hand.\n\nWilliams was born in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, and spent part of his childhood in Malawi, before returning to the US in the 6th grade.\n\nIn his teenage years Williams was a drummer and vocalist for Pittsburgh-based band 'Sludgehammer'.\n\nWilliams joined Pittsburgh math rock pioneers Don Caballero as a second guitarist in 1992 until 2000. He had also played in the Chicago-based, avant-garde band Storm & Stress from 1997 to 2000. Williams moved to New York City in the early 2000s and formed Battles in 2002.\n\nWilliams is well known for his approach to finger tapping on guitar and uses Gibson's Echoplex looping system. His propensity towards guitar tapping allows him to accompany himself on keyboard at live performances, using one hand for each instrument.\n\nWilliams made a short cameo appearance in the 2000 film \"High Fidelity\" as a customer in the music store (shortly after John Cusack's character announces, \"I will now sell five copies of \"The Three E.P.'s\" by The Beta Band.\"). He also had small cameos in \"Heaven's a Drag\" and \"Bloodmoon\", a 1997 martial arts action film.\n\nIan Williams is an alumnus of University of Pittsburgh in Pittsburgh, where he studied history and political science.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2235265", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2235265", "title": "Anna Karenina principle", "text": "Anna Karenina principle\n\nThe Anna Karenina principle states that a deficiency in any one of a number of factors dooms an endeavor to failure. Consequently, a successful endeavor (subject to this principle) is one where every possible deficiency has been avoided.\n\nThe name of the principle derives from Leo Tolstoy's 1877 novel \"Anna Karenina\", which begins:\n\nIn other words: happy families share a common set of attributes which lead to happiness, while any of a variety of attributes can cause an unhappy family. This concept has been generalized to apply to several fields of study.\n\nIn statistics, the term \"Anna Karenina principle\" is used to describe significance tests: there are any number of ways in which a dataset may violate the null hypothesis and only one in which all the assumptions are satisfied.\n\nThe Anna Karenina principle was popularized by Jared Diamond in his 1997 book \"Guns, Germs and Steel\". Diamond uses this principle to illustrate why so few wild animals have been successfully domesticated throughout history, as a deficiency in any one of a great number of factors can render a species undomesticable. Therefore, all successfully domesticated species are not so because of a particular positive trait, but because of a lack of any number of possible negative traits. In chapter 9, six groups of reasons for failed domestication of animals are defined:\n\n\nMoore describes applications of the Anna Karenina principle in ecology:\n\nMuch earlier, Aristotle states the same principle in the \"Nicomachean Ethics\" (Book 2):\n\nMany experiments and observations of groups of humans, animals, trees, grassy plants, stockmarket prices, and changes in the banking sector proved the modified Anna Karenina principle.\n\nThis effect is proved for many systems: from the adaptation of healthy people to a change in climate conditions to the analysis of fatal outcomes in oncological and cardiological clinics. The same effect is found in the stock market. The applicability of these two statistical indicators of stress, simultaneous increase of variance and correlations, for diagnosis of social stress in large groups was examined in the prolonged stress period preceding the 2014 Ukrainian economic and political crisis. There was a simultaneous increase in the total correlation between the 19 major public fears in the Ukrainian society (by about 64%) and also in their statistical dispersion (by 29%) during the pre-crisis years.\n\nVladimir Arnold in his book \"Catastrophe Theory\" describes \"The Principle of Fragility of Good Things\" which in a sense supplements the Principle of Anna Karenina: good systems must meet simultaneously a number of requirements; therefore, they are more fragile:\n"}
{"id": "2235270", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2235270", "title": "International Ultraviolet Explorer", "text": "International Ultraviolet Explorer\n\nThe International Ultraviolet Explorer (IUE) (a.k.a. Explorer 57) was an astronomical observatory satellite primarily designed to take ultraviolet spectra. The satellite was a collaborative project between NASA, the UK Science Research Council and the European Space Agency (ESA). The mission was first proposed in early 1964, by a group of scientists in the United Kingdom, and was launched on January 26, 1978 aboard a NASA Delta rocket. The mission lifetime was initially set for 3 years, but in the end it lasted almost 18 years, with the satellite being shut down in 1996. The switch-off occurred for financial reasons, while the telescope was still functioning at near original efficiency.\n\nIt was the first space observatory to be operated in real time by astronomers who visited the groundstations in the United States and Europe. Astronomers made over 104,000 observations using the IUE, of objects ranging from solar system bodies to distant quasars. Among the significant scientific results from IUE data were the first large scale studies of stellar winds, accurate measurements of the way interstellar dust absorbs light, and measurements of the supernova SN1987A which showed that it defied stellar evolution theories as they then stood. When the mission ended, it was considered the most successful astronomical satellite ever.\n\nThe human eye can perceive light with wavelengths between roughly 350 (violet) and 700 (red) nanometres. Ultraviolet light has wavelengths between roughly 10 nm and 350 nm. UV light can be harmful to human beings, and is strongly absorbed by the ozone layer. This makes it impossible to observe UV emission from astronomical objects from the ground. Many types of object emit copious quantities of UV radiation, though: the hottest and most massive stars in the universe can have surface temperatures high enough that the vast majority of their light is emitted in the UV. Active Galactic Nuclei, accretion disks, and supernovae all emit UV radiation strongly, and many chemical elements have strong absorption lines in the UV, so that UV absorption by the interstellar medium provides a powerful tool for studying its composition.\n\nUV astronomy was impossible before the Space Age, and some of the first space telescopes were UV telescopes designed to observe this previously inaccessible region of the electromagnetic spectrum. One particular success was the second Orbiting Astronomical Observatory, which had a number of 20 cm UV telescopes on board. It was launched in 1968, and took the first UV observations of 1200 objects, mostly stars. The success of OAO-2 motivated astronomers to consider larger missions.\n\nThe orbiting ultraviolet satellite which ultimately became the IUE mission was first proposed in 1964 by British astronomer Robert Wilson. The European Space Research Organisation was planning a \"Large Astronomical Satellite\", and had sought proposals from the astronomical community for its aims and design. Wilson headed a British team which proposed an ultraviolet spectrograph, and their design was recommended for acceptance in 1966.\n\nHowever, management problems and cost overruns led to the cancellation of the LAS program in 1968. Wilson's team scaled down their plans and submitted a more modest proposal to ESRO, but this was not selected as the Cosmic Ray satellite was given precedence. Rather than give up on the idea of an orbiting UV telescope, they instead sent their plans to NASA administrator Leo Goldberg, and in 1973 the plans were approved. The proposed telescope was renamed the \"International Ultraviolet Explorer\".\n\nThe telescope was designed from the start to be operated in real time, rather than by remote control. This required that it would be launched into a geosynchronous orbit – that is, one with a period equal to one sidereal day of 23h 56m. A satellite in such an orbit remains visible from a given point on the Earth's surface for many hours at a time, and can thus transmit to a single ground station for a long period of time. Most space observatories in Earth orbit, such as the Hubble Space Telescope, are in a low orbit in which they spend most of their time operating autonomously because only a small fraction of the Earth's surface can see them at a given time. Hubble, for example, orbits the Earth at an altitude of approximately 600 km, while a geosynchronous orbit has an average altitude of 36,000 km.\n\nAs well as allowing continuous communication with ground stations, a geosynchronous orbit also allows a larger portion of the sky to be viewed continuously. Because the distance from Earth is greater, the Earth occupies a much smaller portion of the sky as seen from the satellite than it does from low Earth orbit.\n\nA launch into a geosynchronous orbit requires much more energy for a given weight of payload than a launch into low Earth orbit. This meant that the telescope had to be relatively small, with a 45 cm primary mirror, and a total weight of 312 kg. Hubble, in comparison, weighs 11.1 tonnes and has a 2.4 m mirror. The largest ground-based telescope, the Gran Telescopio Canarias, has a primary mirror 10.4 m across. A smaller mirror means less light-gathering power, and less spatial resolution, compared to a larger mirror.\n\nThe stated aims of the telescope at the start of the mission were:\n\n\nThe telescope was constructed as a joint project between NASA, ESRO (which became ESA in 1975) and the UK Science and Engineering Research Council. SERC provided the Vidicon cameras for the spectrographs as well as software for the scientific instruments. ESA provided the solar arrays to power the spacecraft as well as a ground observing facility in Villafranca del Castillo, Spain. NASA contributed the telescope, spectrograph, and spacecraft as well as launching facilities and a second ground observatory in Greenbelt, Maryland at the Goddard Space Flight Center.\n\nAccording to the agreement setting up the project the observing time would be divided between the contributing agencies with 2/3 to NASA, 1/6 to ESA and 1/6 to the UK's Science Research Council.\n\nThe telescope mirror was a reflector of the Ritchey-Chretien type, which has hyperbolic primary and secondary mirrors. The primary was 45 cm across. The telescope was designed to give high quality images over a 16 arcminute field of view (about half the apparent diameter of the Sun or Moon). The primary mirror was made of beryllium, and the secondary of fused silica – materials chosen for their light weight, moderate cost, and optical quality.\n\nThe instrumentation on board consisted of the Fine Error Sensors (FES), which were used for pointing and guiding the telescope, a high resolution and a low resolution spectrograph, and four detectors.\n\nThere were two Fine Error Sensors (FES), and their first purpose was to image the field of view of the telescope in visible light. They could detect stars down to 14th magnitude, about 1500 times fainter than can be seen with the naked eye from Earth. The image was transmitted to the ground station, where the observer would verify that the telescope was pointing at the correct field, and then acquire the exact object to be observed. If the object to be observed was fainter than 14th magnitude, the observer would point the telescope at a star that could be seen, and then apply \"blind\" offsets, determined from the coordinates of the objects. The accuracy of the pointing was generally better than 2 arcseconds for blind offsets\n\nThe FES acquisition images were the telescope's only imaging capability; for UV observations, it only recorded spectra. For this, it was equipped with two spectrographs. They were called the Short Wavelength Spectrograph and the Long Wavelength Spectrograph, and covered wavelength ranges of 115 to 200 nanometres and 185 to 330 nm respectively. Each spectrograph had both high and low resolution modes, with spectral resolutions of 0.02 and 0.6 nm respectively.\n\nThe spectrographs could be used with either of two apertures. The larger aperture was a slot with a field of view roughly 10 × 20 arcsec; the smaller aperture was a circle about 3 arcsec in diameter. The quality of the telescope optics was such that point sources appeared about 3 arcsec across, so use of the smaller aperture required very accurate pointing, and it did not necessarily capture all of the light from the object. The larger aperture was therefore most commonly used, and the smaller aperture only used when the larger field of view would have contained unwanted emission from other objects.\n\nThere were two cameras for each spectrograph, one designated the primary and the second being redundant in case of failure of the first. The cameras were named LWP, LWR, SWP and SWR where P stands for prime, R for redundant and LW/SW for long/short wavelength. The cameras were television cameras, sensitive only to visible light, and light gathered by the telescope and spectrographs first fell on a UV-to-visible converter. This was a caesium-tellurium cathode, which was inert when exposed to visible light, but which gave off electrons when struck by UV photons due to the photoelectric effect. The electrons were then detected by the TV cameras. The signal could be integrated for up to many hours, before being transmitted to Earth at the end of the exposure.\n\nThe IUE was launched from Cape Canaveral, Florida on a Delta rocket, on 26 January 1978. It was launched into a transfer orbit, from which its on-board rockets fired it into its planned geosynchronous orbit. The orbit was inclined by 28.6° to the Earth's equator, and had an orbital eccentricity of 0.24, meaning that the satellite's distance from Earth varied between 25,669 km and 45,887 km. The ground track was initially centred at a longitude of approximately 70 degrees W.\n\nThe first 60 days of the mission were designated as the commissioning period. This was divided into three main stage. Firstly, as soon as its instruments were switched on, the IUE observed a small number of high priority objects, to ensure that some data had been taken in the event of an early failure. The first spectrum, of the star Eta Ursae Majoris, was taken for calibration purposes three days after launch. The first science observations targeted objects including the Moon, the planets from Mars to Uranus, hot stars including Eta Carinae, cool giant stars including Epsilon Eridani, the black hole candidate Cygnus X-1, and galaxies including M81 and M87.\n\nThen, the spacecraft systems were tested and optimised. The telescope was focussed, and the prime and redundant cameras in both channels were tested. It was found that the SWR camera did not work properly, and so the SWP camera was used throughout the mission. Initially, this camera suffered from significant electronic noise, but this was traced to a sensor used to align the telescope after launch. Once this sensor was switched off, the camera performed as expected. The cameras were then adjusted for best performance, and the slewing and guiding performance of the telescope evaluated and optimised\n\nFinally, image quality and spectral resolution were studied and characterised, and the performance of the telescope, spectrographs and cameras were calibrated using observations of well-known stars.\n\nAfter these three phases were completed, the \"routine phase\" of operations began on 3 April 1978. Optimisation, evaluation and calibration operations were far from complete, but the telescope was understood well enough for routine science observations to begin.\n\nUse of the telescope was divided between NASA, ESA and SERC in approximate proportion to their relative contributions to the satellite construction: two thirds of the time was available to NASA, and one sixth each to ESA and SERC. Telescope time was obtained by submitting proposals, which were reviewed annually. Each of the three agencies considered applications separately for its allocated observing time. Astronomers of any nationality could apply for telescope time, choosing whichever agency they preferred to apply to.\n\nIf an astronomer was awarded time, then when their observations were scheduled, they would travel to the ground stations which operated the satellite, so that they could see and evaluate their data as it was taken. This mode of operation was very different from most space facilities, for which data is taken with no real time input from the astronomer concerned, and instead resembled the use of ground-based telescopes.\n\nFor most of its lifetime, the telescope was operated in three eight-hour shifts each day, two from the US ground station at the Goddard Space Flight Center in Maryland, and one from the ESA ground station at Villanueva de la Cañada near Madrid. Because of its elliptical orbit, the spacecraft spent part of each day in the Van Allen belts, during which time science observations suffered from higher background noise. This time occurred during the second US shift each day, and was generally used for calibration observations and spacecraft 'housekeeping', as well as for science observations that could be done with short exposure times.\n\nThe twice-daily transatlantic handovers required telephone contact between Spain and the US to coordinate the switch. Observations were not coordinated between the stations, so that the astronomers taking over after the handover would not know where the telescope would be pointing when their shift started. This sometimes meant that observing shifts started with a lengthy pointing manoeuvre, but allowed maximum flexibility in scheduling of observing blocks.\n\nData was transmitted to Earth in real time at the end of each science observation. The camera read-out formed an image of 768×768 pixels, and the analogue-to-digital converter resulted in a dynamic range of 8 bits. The data was then transmitted to Earth via one of six transmitters on the spacecraft; four were S-band transmitters, placed at points around the spacecraft such that no matter what its attitude, one could transmit to the ground, and two were VHF transmitters, which could sustain a lower bandwidth, but consumed less power, and also transmitted in all directions. The VHF transmitters were used when the spacecraft was in the Earth's shadow and thus reliant on battery power instead of solar power.\n\nIn normal operations, observers could hold the telescope in position and wait approximately 20 minutes for the data to be transmitted, if they wanted the option of repeating the observation, or they could slew to the next target and then start the data transmission to Earth while observing the next target.\n\nThe data transmitted were used for \"quick look\" purposes only, and full calibration was carried out by IUE staff later. Astronomers were then sent their data on magnetic tape by post, about a week after processing. From the date of the observation, the observers had a six-month proprietary period during which only they had access to the data. After six months, it became public.\n\nThe IUE allowed astronomers their first view of the ultraviolet light from many celestial objects, and was used to study objects ranging from Solar System planets to distant quasars. During its lifetime, hundreds of astronomers observed with IUE, and during its first decade of operations, over 1500 peer reviewed scientific articles based on IUE data were published. Nine symposia of the International Astronomical Union were devoted to discussions of IUE results.\n\nAll the planets in the Solar System except Mercury were observed; the telescope could not point at any part of the sky within 45° of the Sun, and Mercury's greatest angular distance from the Sun is only about 28°. IUE observations of Venus showed that the amount of sulfur monoxide and sulfur dioxide in its atmosphere declined by a large amount during the 1980s. The reason for this decline is not yet fully understood, but one hypothesis is that a large volcanic eruption had injected sulfur compounds into the atmosphere, and that they were declining following the end of the eruption.\n\nHalley's Comet reached perihelion in 1986, and was observed intensively with the IUE, as well as with a large number of other ground-based and satellite missions. UV spectra were used to estimate the rate at which the comet lost dust and gas, and the IUE observations allowed astronomers to estimate that a total of 3×10 tons of water evaporated from the comet during its passage through the inner Solar System.\n\nSome of the most significant results from IUE came in the studies of hot stars. A star that is hotter than about 10,000 K emits most of its radiation in the UV, and thus if it can only be studied in visible light, a large amount of information is being lost. The vast majority of all stars are cooler than the Sun, but the fraction that is hotter includes massive, highly luminous stars which shed enormous quantities of matter into interstellar space, and also white dwarf stars, which are the end stage of stellar evolution for the vast majority of all stars and which have temperatures as high as 100,000 K when they first form.\n\nThe IUE discovered many instances of white dwarf companions to main sequence stars. An example of this kind of system is Sirius, and at visible wavelengths the main sequence star is far brighter than the white dwarf. However, in the UV, the white dwarf can be as bright or brighter, as its higher temperature means it emits most of its radiation at these shorter wavelengths. In these systems, the white dwarf was originally the heavier star, but has shed most of its mass during the later stages of its evolution. Binary stars provide the only direct way to measure the mass of stars, from observations of their orbital motions. Thus, observations of binary stars where the two components are at such different stages of stellar evolution can be used to determine the relationship between the mass of stars and how they evolve.\n\nStars with masses of around ten times that of the Sun or higher have powerful stellar winds. The Sun loses about 10 solar masses per year in its solar wind, which travels at up to around 750 km/s, but the massive stars can lose as much as a billion times more material each year in winds travelling at several thousand kilometres per second. These stars exist for a few million years, and during this time the stellar wind carries away a significant fraction of their mass, and plays a crucial role in determining whether they explode as supernovae or not. This stellar mass loss was first discovered using rocket-borne telescopes in the 1960s, but the IUE allowed astronomers to observe a very large number of stars, allowing the first proper studies of how stellar mass loss is related to mass and luminosity.\n\nIn 1987, a star in the Large Magellanic Cloud exploded as a supernova. Designated SN 1987A, this event was of enormous importance to astronomy, as it was the closest known supernova to Earth, and the first visible to the naked eye, since Kepler's star in 1604 – before the invention of the telescope. The opportunity to study a supernova so much more closely than had ever been possible before triggered intense observing campaigns at all major astronomical facilities, and the first IUE observations were made about 14 hours after the discovery of the supernova.\n\nIUE data were used to determine that the progenitor star had been a blue supergiant, where theory had strongly expected a red supergiant. Hubble Space Telescope images revealed a nebula surrounding the progenitor star which consisted of mass lost by the star long before it exploded; IUE studies of this material showed that it was rich in nitrogen, which is formed in the CNO cycle – a chain of nuclear reactions which produces most of the energy emitted by stars much more massive than the Sun. Astronomers inferred that the star had been a red supergiant, and had shed a large amount of matter into space, before evolving into a blue supergiant and exploding.\n\nThe IUE was used extensively to investigate the interstellar medium. The ISM is normally observed by looking at background sources such as hot stars or quasars; interstellar material absorbs some of the light from the background source and so its composition and velocity can be studied. One of IUE's early discoveries was that the Milky Way is surrounded by a vast halo of hot gas, known as a galactic corona. The hot gas, heated by cosmic rays and supernovae, extends several thousand light years above and below the plane of the Milky Way.\n\nIUE data was also crucial in determining how the light from distant sources is affected by dust along the line of sight. Almost all astronomical observations are affected by this interstellar extinction, and correcting for it is the first step in most analyses of astronomical spectra and images. IUE data was used to show that within the galaxy, interstellar extinction can be well described by a few simple equations. The relative variation of extinction with wavelength shows little variation with direction; only the absolute amount of absorption changes. Interstellar absorption in other galaxies can similarly be described by fairly simple 'laws'.\n\nThe IUE vastly increased astronomers' understanding of active galactic nuclei (AGN). Before its launch, 3C 273, the first known quasar, was the only AGN that had ever been observed at UV wavelengths. With IUE, UV spectra of AGN became widely available.\n\nOne particular target was NGC 4151, the brightest Seyfert galaxy. Starting soon after IUE's launch, a group of European astronomers pooled their observing time to repeatedly observe the galaxy, to measure variations over time of its UV emission. They found that the UV variation was much greater than that seen at optical and infrared wavelengths. IUE observations were used to study the black hole at the centre of the galaxy, with its mass being estimated at between 50 and 100 million times that of the Sun. The UV emission varied on timescales of a few days, implying that the region of emission was only a few light days across.\n\nQuasar observations were used to probe intergalactic space. Clouds of hydrogen gas in between the Earth and a given quasar will absorb some of its emission at the wavelength of Lyman alpha. Because the clouds and the quasar are all at different distances from Earth, and moving at different velocities due to the expansion of the universe, the quasar spectrum has a \"forest\" of absorption features at wavelengths shorter than its own Lyman alpha emission. Before IUE, observations of this so-called Lyman-alpha forest were limited to very distant quasars, for which the redshift caused by the expansion of the universe brought it into optical wavelengths. IUE allowed nearer quasars to be studied, and astronomers used this data to determine that there are fewer hydrogen clouds in the nearby universe than there are in the distant universe. The implication is that over time, these clouds have formed into galaxies.\n\nThe IUE was designed to have a minimum lifetime of three years, and carried consumable sufficient for a five-year mission. However, it lasted far longer than its design called for. Occasional hardware failures caused difficulties, but innovative techniques were devised to overcome them. For example, the spacecraft was equipped with six gyros to stabilise the spacecraft. Successive failures of these in 1979, 1982, 1983, 1985 and 1996 ultimately left the spacecraft with a single functional gyro. Telescope control was maintained with two gyros by using the telescope's Sun sensor to determine the spacecraft's attitude, and stabilisation in three axes proved possible even after the fifth failure, by using the Sun sensor, the Fine Error Sensors and the single remaining gyro. Most other parts of the telescope systems remained fully functional throughout the mission.\n\nIn 1995, budget concerns at NASA almost led to the termination of the mission, but instead the operations responsibilities were redivided, with ESA taking control for 16 hours a day, and GSFC for the remaining 8 only. The ESA 16 hours was used for science operations, while the GSFC 8 hours was used only for maintenance. In February 1996, further budget cuts led ESA to decide that it would no longer maintain the satellite. Operations ceased in September of that year, and on 30 September all the remaining hydrazine was discharged, the batteries were drained and switched off, and at 1844 UT, the radio transmitter was shut down and all contact with the spacecraft was lost.\n\nIt continues to orbit the Earth in its geosynchronous orbit, and will continue to do so more or less indefinitely as it is far above the upper reaches of the Earth's atmosphere. Anomalies in the Earth's gravity due to its non-spherical shape meant that the telescope tended to drift west from its original location at approximately 70°W longitude towards approximately 110°W. During the mission, this drift was corrected by occasional rocket firings, but since the end of the mission the satellite has drifted uncontrolled to the west of its former location.\n\nThe IUE archive is one of the most heavily used astronomical archives. Data were archived from the start of the mission, and access to the archive was free to anyone who wished to use it. However, in the early years of the mission, long before the advent of the World Wide Web and fast global data transmission links, access to the archive required a visit in person to one of two Regional Data Analysis Facilities (RDAFs), one at the University of Colorado and the other at GSFC.\n\nIn 1987 it became possible to access the archive electronically, by dialling into a computer at Goddard. The archive, then totalling 23 Gb of data, was connected to the computer on a mass storage device. A single user at a time could dial in, and would be able to retrieve an observation in 10–30 seconds.\n\nAs the mission entered its second decade, plans were made for its final archive. Throughout the mission, calibration techniques were improved, and the final software for data reduction yielded significant improvements over earlier calibrations. Eventually, the entire set of available raw data was recalibrated using the final version of the data reduction software, creating a uniform high quality archive. Today, the archive is hosted at the Mikulski Archive for Space Telescopes at Space Telescope Science Institute and is available via the World Wide Web and APIs.\n\nThe IUE mission, by virtue of its very long duration and the fact that for most of its lifetime it provided astronomers' only access to UV light, had a major impact on astronomy. By the end of its mission it was considered by far the most successful and productive space observatory mission. For many years after the end of the mission, its archive was the most heavily used dataset in astronomy, and IUE data has been used in over 250 PhD projects worldwide. Almost 4,000 peer-reviewed papers have now been published based on IUE data, including some of the most cited astronomy papers of all time. The most cited paper based on IUE data is one analysing the nature of interstellar reddening, which has subsequently been cited over 5,500 times. \n\nThe Hubble Space Telescope has now been in orbit for 21 years (as of 2011) and Hubble data has been used in almost 10,000 peer-reviewed publications at that time. In 2009, the Cosmic Origins Spectrograph was installed on HST by astronauts launched with the instrument by the Space Shuttle, and this device records ultraviolet spectra, thus proving some ultraviolet observation ability in this period. Another ultraviolet space telescope, quite different in focus, was the wide-angle imaging Galex space telescope operated between 2003 and 2013.\n\nSome telescope visions such as Habex or ATLAST have included a Ultra-violet capability, although its not clear if they have any real prospects. In the 2010s many telescope projects were struggling, and even some ground observatories saw there potential for being shut down ostensibly to save budget.\n\n"}
{"id": "2235272", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2235272", "title": "William H. Spinks", "text": "William H. Spinks\n\nWilliam Hooey Spinks (July 23, 1873 – May 25, 1949) was a politician in Manitoba, Canada. He served in the Legislative Assembly of Manitoba from 1920 to 1932, as a member of the Conservative Party.\n\nSpinks was born in Blackstock, Ontario, the son of William Spinks and Sussannah Hooey, and was educated at public schools in the Township of Cartwright. His family came west in 1894 and settled near Treherne, Manitoba. He worked as a farmer, and was the reeve of the Rural Municipality of South Norfolk in Manitoba for thirteen years. Spinks was a member of the Grain Growers' Association, was president of the Agricultural Society for eight years, and was a freemason and Orangeman. In 1902, he married Mary Eleanor Jackson.\n\nHe was first elected to the Manitoba legislature in the 1920 provincial election, defeating Liberal incumbent Andrew W. Myles by 180 votes in the rural constituency of Cypress. Spinks was one of only eight conservatives elected to the fifty-five member legislature in this cycle. He was again successful in the 1922 election, defeating John Young of the United Farmers of Manitoba by 47 votes as the Conservatives fell to seven seats across the province.\n\nThe Conservative Party recovered to fifteen seats in the 1927 election, as Spinks defeated Progressive candidate Andrew Moore by 144 votes. Five years later, in the 1932 election, he lost to Liberal-Progressive James Christie by 256 votes.\n\nHe campaigned for the House of Commons of Canada in the 1935 federal election as a candidate of the Conservative Party of Canada, but lost to Liberal-Progressive candidate William Gilbert Weir. Spinks had retired from active farm work by this time.\n\nIn 1937, he moved to Hamilton, Ontario. Spinks died in 1949 while visiting Toronto, Ontario.\n\nHis daughter Olive married Lloyd Stinson.\n"}
{"id": "2235274", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2235274", "title": "Alex Shibicky", "text": "Alex Shibicky\n\nAlexandre Dimitri Shibicky (May 19, 1914 – July 9, 2005) was an ice hockey forward who played for the New York Rangers of the National Hockey League from 1935 to 1946.\n\nShibicky was also a Stanley Cup winner in 1940, and the vice-president of the first incarnation of the National Hockey League Players Association, but he is best known for being the first player to use a slapshot, which he did in 1937. He said he learned it in practice from teammate Fred \"Bun\" Cook during the 1935–36 season. He also spent three years in the Canadian Forces during World War II.\n\n"}
{"id": "2235277", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2235277", "title": "Leonhard Gall", "text": "Leonhard Gall\n\nProfessor Leonhard Gall (24 August 1884 in Munich – 20 January 1952) was one of Adolf Hitler's architects.\n\nGall worked for Paul Troost and he designed a new chancellery for Munich. He was assistant to Troost on the Third Reich's first major architectural project, the House of German Art. After Troost's death in 1934, Gall took charge of the project alongside Troost's widow Gerty. He was named on the Gottbegnadeten list of artists valuable to the Nazi regime in 1944.\n\n"}
{"id": "2235278", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2235278", "title": "1887–88 in English football", "text": "1887–88 in English football\n\nThe 1887–1888 season was the 17th season of competitive football in England.\n\nEngland won the 1888 British Home Championship, their first victory in the tournament, with comfortable victories over all three other home nations, in each of which England scored five goals.\n\nAlbert Allen, of Aston Villa, scored three goals against Ireland in his only appearance for England.\n<nowiki>*</nowiki> England score given first\n\nKey\n"}
{"id": "2235281", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2235281", "title": "Tefnakht", "text": "Tefnakht\n\nShepsesre Tefnakht (in Greek known as Tnephachthos) was a prince of Sais and founder of the relatively short Twenty-fourth dynasty of Egypt; he rose to become a Chief of the Ma in his home city. He is thought to have reigned roughly 732 BCE to 725 BCE, or 7 years. Tefnakht I first began his career as the \"Great Chief of the West\" and Prince of Sais and was a late contemporary of the last ruler of the 22nd dynasty: Shoshenq V. Tefnakht I was actually the second ruler of Sais; he was preceded by Osorkon C, who is attested by several documents mentioning him as this city's Chief of the Ma and Army Leader, according to Kenneth Kitchen, while his predecessor as Great Chief of the West was a man named Ankhhor. A recently discovered statue, dedicated by Tefnakht I to Amun-Re, reveals important details about his personal origins. The statue's text states that Tefnakht was the son of a certain Gemnefsutkapu and the grandson of Basa, a priest of Amun near Sais. Consequently, Tefnakht was not actually descended from either lines of Chiefs of the Ma and of the Libu as traditionally believed but rather came from a family of priests, and his ancestors being more likely Egyptians rather than Libyans.\n\nTefnakht is absent from the Manethonian tradition, perhaps because of the abbreviated form in which the \"Aegyptiaca\" came to us, perhaps because Tefnakht was considered a usurper.\n\nTefnakht erected two donation stelas in Years 36 and 38 of Shoshenq V as a Prince at Saïs. His Year 38 stela from Buto is significant not only because Tefnakht employs the rather boastful epithet of \"Great Chief of the entire land\" but due to its list of his religious titles as prophet of Neith, Edjo and the Lady of Imay. This reflects his control over Sais, Buto to the north and Kom el-Hish to the southwest even prior to the end of the 22nd Dynasty—with the death of Shoshenq V—and reflects Tefnakht's political base in the Western Delta region of Egypt. The 22nd Dynasty was politically fragmenting even prior to the death of Shoshenq V. Tefnakht established his capital at Sais, and formed an alliance with other minor kings of the Delta region in order to conquer Middle and Upper Egypt, which was under the sway of the Nubian king Piye. He was able to capture and unify many of the cities of the Delta region, thus making Tefnakht considerably more powerful than any of his predecessors in either the 22nd or 23rd dynasties.\n\nTefnakht was not a member of the Tanite-based 22nd Dynasty of Egypt since Tanis is located in the Eastern Delta whereas his local city of Sais was situated in the Western Delta closer to Libya. His modest title 'Great chief of the West' also hints at a non-royal background. Prior to assuming the title of \"Great Chief of the West\", Tefnakht managed to extend his control southward, capturing the city of Memphis and besieging the city of Herakleopolis, which was an ally of the Kushite king Piye of Nubia. This caused him to face considerable opposition from Piye, especially after Nimlot, the local ruler of Hermopolis defected from Piye's sphere of influence, to his side. A pair of naval engagements soon checked any further advances by Tefnakht's coalition into Piye's Middle Egyptian territories, and Memphis was soon recaptured by Piye. After further campaigns, Tefnakht's allies surrendered to Piye and Tefnakht soon found himself isolated. He finally dispatched a letter formally submitting his loyalty and swearing his loyalty to Piye. Tefnakht, however, was the only Lower Egyptian prince to avoid seeing Piye face to face. These details are recounted in the Great Victory stela of Piye which this Nubian ruler erected on the New Year's Day of his 21st regnal year. Shortly afterwards, Piye returned home to Nubia at Gebel Barkal, and never returned to Lower Egypt again.\n\nDespite this setback, Tefnakht was left alone as the local prince of his local region of Sais. He managed, over time, to soon reestablish his kingdom's control in the Delta region from the political vacuum which resulted after Piye's departure from this region. It is generally believed that prince Tefnakht officially proclaimed himself as king Shepsesre Tefnakht I and adopted a royal title sometime after Piye's departure from Lower Egypt. His successor at Sais was Bakenranef.\n\nWhile most scholars such as Kenneth Kitchen have equated Manetho's Tefnakht with the king Shepsesre Tefnakht of Sais who is attested by the Year 8 Athens donation stela, a recent article by Olivier Perdu has suggested that this Tefnakht was rather Tefnakht II, a much later king of Sais who ruled in the mid-680's BCE during the late Nubian 25th Dynasty. In his paper, Perdu published a newly discovered stela dating from the second year of Necho I's reign, which he contends is similar in style, text and content to the Year 8 stela of Shepsesre Tefnakht. Perdu, thus, infers that these two kings of Sais—Necho I and Tefnakht II—were close contemporaries. However, his arguments are not currently accepted by most Egyptian scholars such as Dan'el Kahn or Kenneth Kitchen who still believe that the Year 8 Athens stela of king Shepsesre Tefnakht likely belongs to Tefnakht I rather than a hypothetical Tefnakht II who would then have assumed power in 685 BC at Sais—early during the reign of Taharqa, one of the most powerful Nubian rulers of Egypt. Kahn has also stressed at an Egyptological Conference at Leiden that Perdu's epigraphic criteria here in the famed Athens stela—such as the use of the tripartite wig, the method through which the falcon-headed god keeps his head upright in the same stela and on temple wall reliefs contemporary with Tefnakht I's time, the decoration of the stela scene: Heaven supported by wAs scepters—appear already in use in the 24th or early 25th Nubian dynasty during Piye, Shabaka or Bakenranef's reign. The invisible back side of the tripartite wig can be found on the donation stela of Shebitku from Pharbaitos and on the Bakenranef/Bocchoris vase dating to the last days of Piye and the beginning of Shabaka—all appear close in time to the presumed reign of Tefnakht I. Moreover, the head of the falcon-headed god Horus is, as Perdu himself noted, similar in style to the stela of Tefnakht, chief of the Meshwesh and Piye's chief rival.\n\nUnlike Necho I, neither of this king's presumed Saite royal predecessors, a certain Nekauba and Tefnakht II, are monumentally attested in Lower Egypt. Hence, the latter two kings who appear in the records of Manetho's Epitome may well be fictitious. Moreover, it is improbable that Taharqa, perhaps one of the most powerful Kushite kings of the Nubian 25th dynasty for the first 18 years of his reign, would have tolerated the existence of a rival line of native Egyptian kings at Sais during the first half of his reign when he exercised full control over Memphis and the Delta region. After all, the 24th dynasty Saite rulers Tefnakht and Bakenranef had fought Taharqa's father Piye and resisted Shabaka's expansion of Kushite power into the Delta region.\n\n"}
{"id": "2235288", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2235288", "title": "Alex Zülle", "text": "Alex Zülle\n\nAlex Zülle (born 5 July 1968) is a Swiss former professional road bicycle racer. During the 1990s he was one of the best cyclists in the world, winning back-to-back in the 1996 and 1997 Vuelta a España, taking second place in the 1995 and the 1999 Tour de France. He was world time-trial champion in Lugano in 1996.\n\nZülle was born and brought up in Wil in the canton of St. Gallen, son of a Swiss father, Walter Zülle and Wilhelmine, from Brabant, Netherlands. As a child he wanted to be a skier but at 18 he was injured in an accident. He began cycling in the Netherlands for rehabilitation before giving up because it was too windy.\n\nHis father, having bought cycling equipment, persuaded him to give cycling another go when they returned to Switzerland. After several years as a successful amateur, Zülle turned professional in 1991. He approached the former sporting director of the Swiss team, Helvetia, Paul Köchli, but Köchli signed Laurent Dufaux instead.\n\nZülle then approached Manolo Saiz, but was rebuffed because, among reasons, he did not contract riders who wore earrings. Eventually, Saiz softened and Zülle rode for ONCE as a stagaire or apprentice in the Volta a Catalunya. He attacked frequently and finished third. Saiz relented and Zülle signed his first professional contract in September 1991. He remained with ONCE until 1997. Most of its riders were Spanish. Zülle spoke only Swiss-German when he joined but at the end of the Vuelta a España he answered journalists in Spanish.\n\nIn 1998, Zülle joined Festina. The team was banned from the 1998 Tour de France amid doping allegations which later became known as the Festina affair. Five Festina riders including Zülle admitted taking EPO. Zülle said he took it to satisfy his sponsors. He also said he was deprived of his spectacles during the police interview. On 28 November 1998, Zülle's haematocrit was found to be 52.3%, 2.3% over the limit.\n\nHis career coincided with that of Miguel Indurain, five-time Tour de France winner. Zülle was second in the Tour in 1999. He also won the Vuelta a España and Tour de Suisse, and stages in the Giro d'Italia. Following financial problems for his employer, Team Coast, Zülle transferred to on 27 March 2003 in a rare mid-season switch.\n\nZülle retired in 2004, and held a party for his fans in Wil in October that year.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2235298", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2235298", "title": "Lake Dahlgren", "text": "Lake Dahlgren\n\nLake Dahlgren is a lake situated approximately southeast of Noble, Oklahoma. It is an artificial lake created by the Oklahoma Department of Wildlife Conservation in 1953. There are no picnic, camping or bathroom facilities at Lake Dahlgren. However, the lake remains popular due to the numerous hiking trails located nearby.\n"}
{"id": "2235301", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2235301", "title": "Car surfing", "text": "Car surfing\n\nCar surfing involves riding on the outside of a moving vehicle being driven by another person. It has resulted in numerous deaths, predominantly caused by head injuries.\n\nThe Quebec Provincial Automobile Insurance Company defines car surfing as follows:\n\nCar surfing, a term introduced in the mid-1980s, involves riding on the outside of a moving vehicle being driven by another person. It has been popularized by the hyphy movement seen in the popular fad of ghost-riding, except the vehicle remains under the nominal control of another person.\n\nA 2008 study by the United States Centers for Disease Control identified 58 newspaper reports of car-surfing deaths and 41 reports of nonfatal injury from 1990 through summer 2008. Most reports of injury were found in U.S. Midwest and Southern newspapers (75%), largely involving males (70%) and youths aged 15–19 (69%). A majority (58%) of reported car surfing incidents ended in death.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2235302", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2235302", "title": "Panic (The Smiths song)", "text": "Panic (The Smiths song)\n\n\"Panic\" is a song by the English rock band the Smiths, released in 1986 and written by singer Morrissey and guitarist Johnny Marr. The first recording to feature new member Craig Gannon, \"Panic\" bemoans the state of contemporary pop music, which \"says nothing to me about my life\", and exhorts listeners to \"burn down the disco\" and \"hang the DJ\" in retaliation. The song was released by Rough Trade as a single and reached No. 7 on the Irish Singles Chart and No. 11 in the UK Chart. Morrissey considered the song's appearance on daytime British radio a \"tiny revolution\" in its own way, as it aired amongst the very music it criticised.\n\nIt was later included in the compilation albums \"The World Won't Listen\" and \"Louder Than Bombs\".\n\n\"Panic\" was recorded at London's Livingston Studios in May 1986. It was the group's first recording sessions since they completed work on their third album \"The Queen Is Dead\" six months earlier. During the interim period, bassist Andy Rourke had been fired due to his heroin addiction, which had interfered with his playing. The band hired Craig Gannon to replace him, but after they rehired Rourke, guitarist Johnny Marr offered Gannon a position as second guitarist.\n\nThe then five-piece band worked with producer John Porter; this was his first work with the group in two years. He was concerned that the song was too short, so he copied the band's first take from 5 May and spliced a repetition of the first verse at the end to increase its length. The group was unimpressed and opted to leave the song as they originally structured it.\n\nA story circulated as the basis for the song holds that Marr and Morrissey were listening to BBC Radio 1 when a news report announced the Chernobyl nuclear disaster. Straight afterwards, BBC disc jockey Steve Wright played the song \"I'm Your Man\" by pop duo Wham! \"I remember actually saying, 'What the fuck does this got to do with people's lives?'\" Marr recalled. \"We hear about Chernobyl, then, seconds later, we're expected to jump around to 'I'm Your Man'\". While Marr subsequently stated that the account was exaggerated, he commented that it was a likely influence on Morrissey's lyrics. The band later commissioned a T-shirt featuring Wright's portrait and the phrase \"Hang the DJ!\"\n\n\"The anecdote might well be true,\" writes Tony Fletcher in \"A Light That Never Goes Out\", his biography of the Smiths, but he states that \"I'm Your Man\" had been off the UK pop charts for several months by the time of the Chernobyl disaster and that \"Morrissey hardly needed further provocation to attack Wright, whose highly ranked afternoon show treated \"all\" popular music as secondary to his madcap party format\". (The antagonism was apparently mutual; former Smiths manager Scott Piering says that at a 1985 meeting, Wright and his producer both made clear that they disliked the band's music.) Moreover, the song itself makes no mention of the radio.\n\nThe song begins with Morrissey mentioning chaos unravelling throughout Britain and Ireland (specifically mentioning London, Birmingham, Grasmere, Carlisle, Leeds, Dublin, Dundee, and Humberside). In the second part of the song, he reveals that the source of this chaos is pop music, which \"says nothing to me about my life\". In reaction, he implores listeners to \"burn down the disco\" and \"hang the DJ\", the latter lyrics repeated with the addition of a chorus of schoolchildren. Journalist Nick Kent described \"Panic\" as a mandate for \"rock terrorism\". John Luerssen calls it a \"commentary on the tepid state of pop music in 1986\" and a \"chiming guitar song,\" based around a rotation between the G major and E minor chords. Simon Goddard has said it mimics \"Metal Guru\" by the glam rock band T.Rex. Luerssen calls the song Marr's homage to the T.Rex song.\n\nThe song \"extended The Smiths' unorthodox tradition of releasing a non-album A-side\" as a single. It reached number 11 on the UK Singles Chart and stayed on the chart for eight weeks. The single also stayed on the Irish Singles Chart for five weeks, reaching a peak of number 7, and reached number 32 on the Dutch Top 40. \"Panic\" was voted Single of the Year by the annual \"NME\" readers poll, and also (\"somewhat incongruously\", noted Goddard) ranked sixth in the Best Dance Record category.\n\n\"Panic\" drew negative reaction from critics who construed Morrissey's lyrics to have a racist connotation. Paolo Hewitt in the \"NME\" wrote, \"If Morrissey wants to have a go at Radio 1 and Steve Wright, then fine [but] when he starts using words like disco and DJ, with all the attendant imagery that brings up for what is a predominantly white audience, he is being imprecise and offensive.\" Fletcher says that the lack of any explicit indication the song was about radio meant \"Panic\" \"could be construed as reviving the racist and homophobic '' campaign of late 1970s America.\" Scritti Politti's Green Gartside accused the song and the band of racism.\n\nMorrissey denied the accusation, and in a September 1986 \"Melody Maker\" interview with Frank Owen decried Owen's suggestion that he was leading a \"black pop conspiracy\". Additional criticism was sparked by the same interview, wherein Morrissey was quoted naming reggae as \"the most racist music in the entire world.\" Marr, in particular, was incensed by the article and in a 1987 \"NME\" interview threatened to \"kick the living shit\" out of the writer if he met him, such was his anger at the article's slant. He also countered that \"disco music\" could not be simply equated with \"black music\", saying, \"To those who took offence at the 'burn down the disco' line [...] I'd say please show me the black members of New Order!\"\n\nFletcher suggests the song was not as much about race or sexuality as it was about the culture of British popular music. \"For British Smiths fans,\" he writes,\nIn 2007, \"NME\" placed \"Panic\" at number 21 in its list of the 50 Greatest Indie Anthems Ever.\n\nAt Glastonbury 2017, a Smiths tribute band led the audience in a protest against Theresa May by changing the lyrics \"hang the DJ\" to \"hang Theresa\".\n\nAll songs written by Morrissey and Johnny Marr except where noted.\n\n\n\nAn image of a young Richard Bradford, known for his lead role as private eye McGill in the 1960s British TV adventure series \"Man in a Suitcase\", features on the sleeve cover.\n\nThe run out on the British 7\" single read \"I DREAMT ABOUT STEW LAST NIGHT\", a pun on a lyric from \"Reel Around the Fountain\" (\"I dreamt about you last night\"), while the 12\" version did not have a matrix message. The German 12\" read \"HANG THEM HIGH MONIKA/HANG THEM HIGH MONIKA\".\n\n\"Panic\" appears in the 2004 film \"Shaun of the Dead\" and in \"Hang the DJ\", a 2017 episode of the television series \"Black Mirror\". The latter episode takes its title from the chorus of the song. The song also appeared in the 1986 Italian horror sequel \"Demons 2\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2235303", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2235303", "title": "Love Profusion", "text": "Love Profusion\n\n\"Love Profusion\" is a song by American singer and songwriter Madonna for her ninth studio album \"American Life\" (2003). Written and produced by Madonna and Mirwais Ahmadzaï, it was released as the fourth and final single from the album on December 8, 2003, by Maverick Records. \"Love Profusion\" was first premiered during the release of the album on AOL. It later received a number of remixes, which were also released alongside the single. The song contains rhythm from a four piece bass drum, with guitar riffs of the acoustic guitar and Madonna's voice backed by a male vocal during the chorus. Ahmadzaï used the stutter edit to create a new groove. Dedicated to Madonna's then-husband, Guy Ritchie, the song's lyrics deal with Madonna's confusion regarding American culture.\n\nAfter its release, \"Love Profusion\" received generally favorable reviews from music critics. Reviewers called it the highlight of \"American Life\", complimenting its fusion of dance beats and acoustic guitar, although some thought that it was too similar to other songs from the album. \"Love Profusion\" failed to chart in the US \"Billboard\" Hot 100 like its predecessors from \"American Life\", but it reached number one on the dance charts and the singles sales chart. The song achieved moderate success internationally, reaching the top five in Canada, Italy, while topping the charts in Spain.\n\nThe accompanying music video of the song was directed by Luc Besson and was shot at Warner Bros. Studios in Burbank, California. It featured Madonna in front of a greenscreen effect with her walking through a city, until walking into a surreal background, filled with red flowers, sea and fairies. \"Love Profusion\" also appeared on Estée Lauder \"Beyond Paradise\" fragrance television commercial, which was similar to the music video and was directed by Besson, but featured supermodel Carolyn Murphy. The advertisement debuted in more than 10,000 cinemas across the country. Madonna did not perform the song during any promotional appearances or on any of her tours; she rehearsed it for 2004's Re-Invention World Tour but it was dropped from the setlist.\n\nAccording to biographer Lucy O'Brien, nothingness is the main theme of \"American Life\"; it appears in the titles of songs like \"Nobody Knows Me\" and \"Nothing Fails\" and in the repetition of the word \"no\" in \"Love Profusion\". Madonna's negative tone in this song and throughout the album allowed her to be sarcastic about people's assumptions about her and to emphasize her knowledge of romantic love. The tracks from \"American Life\" were released to AOL for digital download. Since Madonna was the \"Artist of the Month\" at AOL website, \"Love Profusion\" was premiered there on April 14, 2003, as part of AOL's First Listen program. Several remixes of the song, done by DJs such as The Passengerz, Craig J., Blow-Up and Ralphi Rosario, were included on physical releases of the single around the world, released on December 8, 2003, in the United Kingdom and March 16, 2004 in the United States.\n\nThe remixes were premiered by Warner Bros. Records at the 2003 Winter Music Conference in Miami, where Peter Rauhofer, Rosario and Blow-Up played their remixes of \"Love Profusion\". Blow-Up also debuted their own version of \"Good Boys\" (2003) by Blondie, and remixes of Madonna's previous single, \"Hollywood\". An extended version of the \"Love Profusion\" remix, titled \"Headcleanr Rock Mix\", was also included on Madonna's remix album \"Remixed & Revisited\" (2003). Michael Paoletta of \"Billboard\" named the remix (along with the \"Mount Sims Old School Mix\" of \"Nobody Knows Me\") as the highlight of \"Remixed and Revisited\", calling it \"a new-wave-styled-rock tune\", a \"blast of fresh air\" and an \"essential listening experience\". John Payne from \"LA Weekly\" compares the lyrics of the song (\"Only you make me feel good\") with the cautionary lyrics of \"X-Static Process\", in which the protagonist loses herself in her lover's ego. The \"Headcleanr Rock Mix\" was included on the setlist during the rehearsals of Madonna's 2004 Re-Invention World Tour, but it was ultimately not included in the show.\n\n\"Love Profusion\" was composed and produced by Madonna and Mirwais Ahmadzaï. The song is dedicated to Madonna's then-husband, director Guy Ritchie. The recording sessions for \"American Life\" started in late 2001, but was put on hold as Madonna filmed \"Swept Away\" in Malta and starred in the West End play \"Up for Grabs\". She returned to the Olympic Recording Studios in late 2002 and finished the sessions.\nThe mixing for the track was done by Mark \"Spike\" Stent at the Westlake Recording Studios at West Hollywood, California, and Tim Young did the mastering of the song at Metropolis Studios in London. Tom Hannen and Simon Changer served as assistant engineers during the recording. Ahmadzaï played the guitars and provided its backing vocals. According to the sheet music published at Sheetmusicplus.com, \"Love Profusion\" is written in common time with a moderately fast tempo of 120 beats per minute. According to a writer from \"The Arizona Republic\", it is an electronica-meets-folk song and is composed in the key of B minor with Madonna's voice spanning from B to F.\n\nAhmadzai used the technique of making the music freeze midrhythm throughout \"American Life\", including \"Love Profusion\". One technique was the stutter edit, which Ahmadzaï clarified was not characteristic of his production and recording. \"People get upset because they think it is not natural to skip and stutter the music. But I do it because it is natural. The stuttering can help you create a new groove\", he said. The track starts with a \"strummy\" acoustic guitar introduction, as described by Michael Paoletta from \"Billboard\", on the four-chord progression of Bm–Fm–A–E sequence. The folk rock inspired song has elements of electronica and folk at its core. Its rhythm is produced by a four piece bass drum—which fades in and out abruptly—and atmospheric synth-strings, which are added later in the song.\n\nMadonna sings in the first verse: \"There are too many options/There is no consolation/I have lost my illusions/What I want is an explanation.\" According to \"Rolling Stone\", although not explicitly stated, the lines confirm Madonna's belief that American culture will not \"give her an explanation\", so she had rejected American values, and along with them her own values. She repeats the line \"I got you under my skin\" while a male voice acts as the backing for the track. The song ends with Madonna singing the words \"feel good\" a capella. The lyrics of the song deals with questions, solutions, resurrections, confusions and other broad topics of a neo-philosophical nature. Edna Gundersen of \"USA Today\" compared its composition and Madonna's performance with a love letter. \"The Advocate\" called it \"a plaintive love letter to her husband\".\n\n\"Love Profusion\" received generally positive reviews from music critics. Michael Paoletta from \"Billboard\" described the song as a \"sparse number\" and said that it was a \"good fit\" for the radio. Ken Tucker from \"Entertainment Weekly\" called it \"lovely\". Ian Youngs of BBC News commented that \"Love Profusion\" is one of the highlights from the album, with layers of dance beats and acoustic guitar that made it a more complete song. A writer for \"Daily Record\" described it as a \"stunningly beautiful ballad\" and considered it as one of the many highlights from \"American Life\".\n\nSal Cinquemani from Slant Magazine called it \"dull\" and wrote that \"it was reinvented into a vibrant piece of guitar-driven pop-rock by Ray Carroll.\" Ben Ratliff from \"Rolling Stone\" deduced that with lyrics like \"I got you under my skin\", Madonna conveyed the theme of gaining transcendence through detachment, \"but finally \"American Life\" comes across as defeatist more than anything else\". Dan Aquilante from \"New York Post\" was dismissive of the track, saying that although there was nothing wrong with the guitar-driven composition of the track, it was not different from the strings and orchestration of other tracks from \"American Life\", like \"Nothing Fails\" or \"Easy Ride\". Robert Hilburn, while reviewing \"American Life\" for \"The Press of Atlantic City\", listed the track as one of the songs that could \"save\" the album from being a \"profound fail\". Ross Raihala, writing for \"The Olympian\" listed the track as a standout on \"American Life\", in contrast to the \"dreary, directionless dance numbers and plodding ballads\" on the album.\n\nCaroline Bansal from musicOMH gave a mixed review for the song, feeling that the singer's vocals over the Spanish guitar was monotonous. She felt that the chorus was more melodic but it was the lyrics and the dance beats which did not complete the track. Bansal said that \"Love Profusion\" could have been composed better. Ed Howard from Stylus Magazine wrote that \"Love Profusion\", along with the song \"Intervention\", \"address Madonna's marriage to director Guy Ritchie\", and \"find the once-cynical pop star surprisingly open and emotional, which prompts her to spit out cliché after cliché as she tells us how happy she is\". Alan Braidwood from BBC Music felt that the song was the most straight forward dance track on the album. He added that \"this is one of those [songs] which could become a favorite and it feels like a classic upbeat Madonna song. It fuses the message behind the song \"American Life\" with Mirwais' beats and acoustic elements really well\". Sean O'Brien from \"The People\" complimented the song for its \"great melody and acoustic guitar flavor to it\", and deduced that it would be a hit in the night clubs. Dan Gennoe from Dotmusic website gave a positive review of the track, calling \"Love Profusion\", along with \"Intervention\" and \"X-Static Process\" from \"American Life\", \"gracious\" and \"beautiful\" songs. In 2012, website AfterElton.com listed \"Love Profusion\" at number 91 on their list of \"The 100 Greatest Madonna Songs\". Writing for \"The Guardian\", Jude Rogers placed \"Love Profusion\" at number 58 on her ranking of Madonna's singles, in honor of her 60th birthday, writing that \"the tune begins labouredly, but digs in\". Chuck Arnold from \"Entertainment Weekly\" listed \"Love Profusion\" as the singer's 58th best single; \"this ray of sunshine from \"American Life\" is one of Madonna’s finest folktronica moments\".\n\n\"Love Profusion\" did not chart on the US \"Billboard\" Hot 100 or the Bubbling Under Hot 100 Singles, making it the third consecutive single from \"American Life\" to fail to chart in the US. However, the song peaked at number 41 and \"The Passengers Mix\" topped on the Hot Dance Club Play chart. The song reached No. 4 on the Hot Singles Sales and topped the Hot Dance Singles Sales charts for five weeks. At the year-end Hot Dance Singles Sales recap, \"Love Profusion\" was at number three position, while \"Me Against the Music\" was at number one and \"Nothing Fails\" was at number two. \"Billboard\" reported that Madonna was the first artist in its chart history to have the top three Dance Sales songs. The song also ranked at number 24 on the year-end Dance Club Play tally. In Canada, the song peaked at number three on the Canadian Singles Chart.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, the song debuted at its peak of number eleven on December 20, 2003, with sales of 15,361 copies, becoming Madonna's first song to miss the top ten since \"One More Chance\" (1996). The following week, it dropped to number 33 on the chart, ultimately remaining there for six weeks. \"Love Profusion\" reached a peak of number 33 on the UK Airplay Chart in five weeks, but quickly descended. As of August 2008, the song had sold 41,025 copies according to the Official Charts Company. In Australia, the song debuted at its peak of number 25 on December 28, 2003. It remained on the chart for another seven weeks. \"Love Profusion\" debuted at number 27 on the French Singles Chart on November 30, 2003. In its second week, it reached its peak of number 25. The song was popular in Italy, peaking at number five on the Italian Singles Chart, staying on the chart for a total of twenty weeks. The song also achieved commercial success in Spain, debuting at number one on its singles chart. On the Swiss Singles Chart, the song peaked at number 31, falling out of the chart after a total of eleven weeks.\n\nA few weeks before the official music video's release in November 2003, Madonna's manager Caresse Henry confirmed video plans for \"Love Profusion\". It was directed by Luc Besson and shot in September 2003, at Warner Bros. Studios in Burbank, California and EuropaCorp in Paris, France. Besson later directed Madonna in the 2007 animated film \"Arthur and the Invisibles\". \"There are a lot of special effects. I talked to things that weren't there – which is what you do when you're doing green-screen or blue-screen stuff. There's going to be a lot of fairies dancing around me. Isn't that exciting? I always have a lot of fairies dancing around me\", Madonna commented about the music video. The video premiered in the US on February 11, 2004 on AOL's First View. After the premiere, it was streamed on Yahoo!, MSN, Windows Media, Apple, MTV, VH1, iFilm and Madonna.com. In 2009, the video was included on Madonna's compilation, \"\".\n\nThe video begins with Madonna walking at night in the middle of the street of an American city surrounded by skyscrapers and wind. Then she finds herself in another dimension, as moving flowers surround her. As the video advances, Madonna walks on other different kinds of roads. She walks on a path of red flowers in the sky, and then walks on her knees on a deep, blue colored sea, as she is followed by little white fairies. At the end of the video, when there is destruction in the real dimension, Madonna finds peace and is surrounded by the fairies. When they go away, Madonna disappears altogether.\n\n\"Love Profusion\" was used on the Estée Lauder \"Beyond Paradise\" fragrance television advertisement. It was also directed by Luc Besson and shot the same day than the official music video. The Estée Lauder advertisement featured supermodel Carolyn Murphy wandering through a world full of water, and surrounded by flowers and fairies while \"Love Profusion\" played in the background. The 30 second commercial debuted in more than 10,000 cinemas in September, while the television version of the advertisement aired on MTV, VH1, E! and Style Network. Estée Lauder group president Patrick Bousquet-Chauvanne explained that they \"wanted the advertising to be groundbreaking for Estée Lauder... The association of Luc Besson, Madonna and Carolyn Murphy will make for an exceptional visual and acoustic experience for movie and television audiences around the world.\" \"The Olympian\"s Ross Raihala wrote that it made sense that \"Love Profusion\" was used as the soundtrack for the commercial, and felt like it was another attempt by Madonna to \"salvage her career\" following the commercial disappointment of \"American Life\".\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nCredits and personnel adapted from \"American Life\" album liner notes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2235307", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2235307", "title": "Rachel Chagall", "text": "Rachel Chagall\n\nRachel Chagall (born Rachel Levin; November 24, 1952) is an American actress, best known for roles as Gaby in the film \"\" (1987), for which she was nominated for Golden Globe Award for Best Actress – Motion Picture Drama and as Val Toriello on \"The Nanny\" (1993–1999).\n\nRachel Levin was born in New York City, to a Jewish family.\nIn 1982, she contracted Guillain–Barré syndrome, recovering sufficiently to be cast in the starring role of \"Gaby, A True Story.\"\n\nShe is perhaps best known for her role as the dimwitted sidekick Val Toriello, on the 1990s television series \"The Nanny\".\nShe and her husband Greg Lenart, who was The Nanny's stage manager, had twins on March 19, 1999, named Eve and Jonah.\n\nShe made guest appearances on \"Just Shoot Me!\" and \"Strong Medicine\". She also played a mysterious woman in \"What I Like About You\". As Rachel Levin, Chagall appeared in \"\" (1987) in the title role as Gabriela Brimmer (for which she was nominated for a Golden Globe - Best Actress in a Motion Picture - Drama) and \"White Palace\" (1990) in the role of Rachel. She also appeared in \"The Last Supper\" (1995). On December 6, 2004, Chagall appeared at the cast reunion for \"The Nanny\", \"\".\n"}
{"id": "2235319", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2235319", "title": "Robert Ferguson (Manitoba politician)", "text": "Robert Ferguson (Manitoba politician)\n\nRobert George Ferguson (June 2, 1866 – 1958) was a politician in Manitoba, Canada. He served in the Legislative Assembly of Manitoba from 1927 to 1932, as a member of the Conservative Party.\n\nFerguson was born in the township of Kitley, in Leeds County, Ontario, the son of John Ferguson. He was educated at Smith's Falls, moved to Manitoba in 1882, and worked as a farmer. He was a member of the I.O.O.F.\n\nHe was elected to the Manitoba legislature in the 1927 provincial election, defeating Progressive candidate George Palmer and incumbent Liberal Archibald Esplen in the constituency of Dauphin. The Progressive Party won a majority government, and Ferguson served on the opposition benches of the legislature. He did not seek re-election in 1932.\n"}
{"id": "2235326", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2235326", "title": "Benjamin Roden", "text": "Benjamin Roden\n\nBenjamin Lloyd Roden (January 5, 1902 – October 22, 1978) was an American religious leader and the prime organizer of the Branch Davidian Seventh-day Adventist Association.\n\nBenjamin Roden was born on January 5, 1902 in Bearden, Oklahoma to a family of Jewish origin. His parents, James Buchanan Roden and Hattie Roden, had five other children.\n\nLittle is known of Roden's early life but he grew up on a farm in Bearden and attended high school there before going to a teacher's college and then practising as a teacher for a brief period. Thereafter, he spent some time working on oil fields, first in Oklahoma and later in Odessa, Texas.\n\nRoden married Lois I. Scott on February 12, 1937. With her he had two daughters and four sons, including George Roden.\n\nDetails of Roden's early religious views are as sketchy as those of his secular life. However, an obituary says that he joined \"the Christian Church\" in the same year that he married, although his journey to that church and the extent to which it involved change is uncertain. Kenneth Newport, a professor of Christian Thought, notes that \"like many other converted Jews ... he carried with him into Christianity a good deal of his Jewishness\", giving as an example of this the importance that Roden later attached to the Jewish festivals of Purim and Passover.\n\nBy 1940, the Rodens were members of the Seventh-day Adventist Church (SDA) in Kilgore, Texas. It is possible that the appeal of the SDA lay at least in part in its similarities to some aspects of Judaism, such as practising the sabbath on the seventh day and abiding by the dietary laws of the Old Testament, but in addition the couple had been given \"Bible Readings for the Home Circle\" as a wedding present by Lois's mother. That book was a publication of the SDA and it is probable, although not certain, that somewhere in Lois's family there was already an involvement with that church.\n\nThe Rodens later moved from the church at Kilgore to that at Odessa, where Ben became a head elder. Somewhere around this time, in the early- to mid-1940s, the couple became influenced by the Shepherd's Rod movement, which had splintered from the SDA, and probably visited its base at the Mount Carmel Center, near Waco, Texas, even if only briefly. They were disfellowshiped from their SDA church, which caused them offence because they had helped to finance the church building and felt that they therefore had a right to use it. Various accounts exist of a stand-off between Lois and the church, with her occupying it for several days and receiving supplies from Ben and their son, George.\n\nBen and Lois Roden continued their involvement with the Shepherd's Rod, although there is again a scarcity of reliable information. They visited Mt Carmel for several months in 1953 and were there again in 1955 at the time when Victor Houteff, the leader of The Rod, died. It seems that he sought to become Houteff's successor as leader but that role went to Florence, the widow of Victor.\n\nAt the time of Houteff's death, Roden believed The Rod teaching that truth must be continually progressive and God's people were to march onward with it. Later that year, he said that he was told to give a message to Florence Houteff and the Executive Council of The Rod but was hesitant to do so. Roden stated that, because of his reluctance, one night while he was in bed, the Lord picked him up by the pajama tops and told him to write a letter as he had been made to do. He said that after he had written the letter, he told the Lord, \"These are not my words, I cannot sign this.\" He said that the Lord then told him to sign it \"The Branch.\" Roden stated that he was later shown from the Bible and Church writings that this name was Jesus’ new name. Roden taught that the change of Christ’s name was reflective of the change of His work as represented in the prophecies which reveal His new name. Thereafter he worked to share with others what he believed God had revealed to him.\n\nRoden also taught that the name \"The Branch\" was to be the new name of his Church. Thus the Branch Davidian Seventh-day Adventist Association was organized. He taught that eventually the names \"Davidian\" and \"Seventh day Adventists\" would be dropped, leaving the name of the Church, \"The Branch.\" \n\nOne of the doctrines of the Seventh-day Adventists is that on October 22, 1844, God, the Father, and Jesus moved from the throne from which they ruled the universe to the judgment throne in the Most Holy Place of the heavenly Sanctuary in order to fulfill the antitypical Day of Atonement wherein they were to go through the books of records in order to judge the people's deeds to determine their rewards or punishments. They teach that this investigative work was to begin with those who were already dead in order to decide who was to come up in the resurrection of the saints, and those who were to later come up in the resurrection of the wicked. They also teach that eventually the judgment would pass on to those who were living in order to determine who would be translated without seeing death at Christ's second coming, and those would be destroyed by the brightness of His coming. Roden told the Seventh-day Adventist Church and The Rod that the judgment has passed from the dead to the living on 20 October 1955.\n\nRoden assumed control of the group, and renamed it the General Association of Davidian Seventh-day Adventists. He proclaimed himself to be King David's successor.\n\nRoden died in October 1978, after which Lois led the sect until the emergence of David Koresh in the mid-1980s.\n\n"}
{"id": "2235328", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2235328", "title": "Gosoku-ryu", "text": "Gosoku-ryu\n\nThe International Karate Association (IKA) was formed in Tokyo, Japan in 1953 for the purpose of teaching and promoting the Gosoku style of karate. Gosoku-ryū, \"the style of force with speed\", incorporates the methods of Goju-ryū and Shotokan karate with aikido, jujitsu, and judo. It is applied so as to encompass any attacker from all angles.\n\nThe IKA grew quickly to its current estimated membership of over 100,000 in 60 different countries. In 1964, Kubota came to the United States. He was able to gather several talented young men to create the nucleus of the U.S. branch. Under Kubota's tutelage, the IKA has achieved wide recognition in the martial arts world. Members of the organization have won championship titles, including California state, U.S. national, and world championships. The IKA reaches worldwide with headquarters located in Glendale, California.\n\nAdvancement through the ranks, as marked by belt color, is a process signifying progressively greater control and coordination of mind and body. The length of time involved is largely dependent upon the dedication of the individual student. Any person, regardless of age, gender, or innate talent, can become proficient if he or she diligently applies the techniques taught.\n\nThe progressive ranks of karate are reflected in the different colored belts. There are two major classifications: the ranks of black belt are called dans, while all those below the rank of black belt are kyus. \n\nIn Gosoku-ryū, there are ten kyu ratings, as follows: \n\nAfter achieving shodan, or first degree black belt ranking, a karateka may progress further though the dan ranks up to ju-dan, or tenth degree black belt.\n\nThe ju-dan sometimes wears a red belt to distinguish him or herself. Instructors that are 4th dan are sometimes awarded the title of \"Shihan-Dai\" (deputy master). Instructors that are 5th dan or higher are sometimes awarded the title of \"Shihan\" (master instructor). Title is not always awarded by rank alone. One must be an active instructor and be awarded the rank by Kubota.\n\nAll Black Belt ranks are registered directly with the International Association Headquarters in Glendale, California.\n\nGosoku-ryū is similar to Shotokan karate. It differs from Shotokan in that it incorporates the linear power movements of Shotokan with the speed and soft circular motions of Gōjū-ryū. The meaning of Gosoku-Ryu is \"Hard and fast\". Emphasis is put on practical application and sparring. Stances are generally shorter when in defensive positions and transition to longer stances when power moves are delivered. During kicks, including kihon, hands are kept in guard (and not spread aside). Gosoku-ryū teaches quick leg sweeps and take-downs; in kumite, attacks often end on the floor. Fast footwork which adds speed and power by utilizing the rotation of the hip makes Gosoku-ryū different from other styles. Gosoku-ryū also incorporates aikido, judo, and jujitsu techniques, which are used in ground fighting and for control and restraint techniques that are taught to law enforcement.\n\nMany weapons are practiced in the dojo: Kubotan, Tonfa, Kama, Jō, Bokuto, Bokken, Shinai, Tsue (walking cane), and the Katana (Japanese sword). Kubota trained with Taira Shinken learning ancient Kobudo katas while developing his own for his school. The Kobudo kata created by him include:\n\n\nTakemasa Okuyama and Temoanarupe Inuhaere are ranked as 8th dan. Several people were awarded the rank of 7th dan and title of Shihan in Gosoku-ryu:\n\n"}
{"id": "2235338", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2235338", "title": "Torild Skogsholm", "text": "Torild Skogsholm\n\nTorhild Skogsholm (born 18 October 1959, in Bodø) is a Norwegian politician (Liberal Party). She was Minister of Transport and Communications from 2001 to 2005. She is now the director of the Oslo tram company Oslo Sporvognsdrift.\n\nSkogsholm graduated in economics (Cand.Oecon.) at the University of Oslo, 1988.\n"}
{"id": "2235341", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2235341", "title": "Cuscohygrine", "text": "Cuscohygrine\n\nCuscohygrine is a pyrrolidine alkaloid found in coca. It can also be extracted from plants of the family Solanaceae, including \"Atropa belladonna\" (deadly nightshade), \"Datura innoxia\" and \"Datura stramonium\" (jimson weed). Cuscohygrine usually occurs along with other, more potent alkaloids such as atropine or cocaine.\n\nCuscohygrine, along with the related metabolite hygrine, was first isolated by Carl Liebermann in 1889 as an alkaloid accompanying cocaine in coca leaves (also known as Cusco-leaves).\n\nCuscohygrine is an oil that can be distilled without decomposition only in vacuum. It is soluble in water. It also forms a crystalline trihydrate which melts at 40–41 °C.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2235344", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2235344", "title": "Plamondon, Alberta", "text": "Plamondon, Alberta\n\nPlamondon is a hamlet in northern Alberta, Canada within Lac La Biche County. It is located on Highway 858, approximately north of Highway 55, and has an elevation of .\n\nThe hamlet is located in census division No. 12 and in the federal riding of Fort McMurray-Athabasca.\n\nThe community was founded by Joseph Plamondon in 1908 and settled by primarily French Canadians. Most of the families that eventually settled there came from Provemont, Michigan (now Lake Leelanau in Leelanau County, Michigan) and from French areas of Ontario. This is mentioned in a 1991 interview with Cecelia Bussey: http://leelanauhistory.pastperfectonline.com/archive/027AC0DE-312F-4F0F-85A1-643695582517.\n\nOn the outskirts of Plamondon is a community of Old Believers (Old Ritualists), a Traditionalist Russian Orthodox sect whose ancestors broke from the Church after Patriarch Nikon's reforms in 1666. The schism, or \"Raskol,\" resulted over reforms in church ritual and translation intended to better align the Russian church with Greek Orthodox practices. The Old Believers that live outside Plamondon are \"bezpopovtsy\", or priestless Old Believers, who believe that apostolic succession ended with Nikon's apostasy and therefore have no clergy and refuse the Eucharist. Most of these families moved to the area in the mid 1970s from Woodburn, Oregon, also home to a large Old Believer community. Many also came from Xinjiang, China, by way of New Zealand, where they fled after the Communist revolutions in Russia and China.\n\nAs a designated place in the 2016 Census of Population conducted by Statistics Canada, Plamondon recorded a population of 348 living in 136 of its 172 total private dwellings, a change of from its 2011 population of 345. With a land area of , it had a population density of in 2016.\n\nLac La Biche County's 2016 municipal census counted a population of 348 in Plamondon, a change from the hamlet's 2013 municipal census population of 344.\n\nAs a designated place in the 2011 Census, Plamondon had a population of 345 living in 135 of its 147 total dwellings, a 3% change from its 2006 population of 335. With a land area of , it had a population density of in 2011.\n\nThe main industries in the region are logging and farming.\n\nThe community has two schools, Ecole Beausejour and Ecole Plamondon School, which draw students from the entire region. École Plamondon School, offers English, French immersion, and Russian classes. École Beausejour is a francophone school, with instruction surrounding with the francophone culture. \n\nThere are two hotels, two banks, post office, indoor hockey arena with artificial ice, a museum, and a rather large church. \n\nThe hamlet also holds an annual French hockey tournament called Hockey en Fête. Frontenacs of University of Alberta have won twice. A Canadian Mud Racing Organization (CMRO) event is also held annually at the Plamondon Mud Bog.\n\n"}
{"id": "2235353", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2235353", "title": "Eata of Hexham", "text": "Eata of Hexham\n\nEata (died 26 October 686), also known as Eata of Lindisfarne, was Bishop of Hexham from 678 until 681, and of then Bishop of Lindisfarne from before 681 until 685. He then was translated back to Hexham where he served until his death in 685 or 686. He was the first native of Northumbria to take the bishopric of Lindisfarne.\n\nEata was originally taken to Lindisfarne as a boy under Aidan and trained as a monk. He was chosen as one of the 12 monks selected from Lindisfarne to found the new daughter monastery at Melrose. In 651 he was elected abbot of Melrose. Around 658 he left Melrose and founded a new monastery at Ripon in Yorkshire, taking with him the young St Cuthbert, who was his guest-master. In 661 King Alchfrith of Deira expelled Eata from Ripon, because he had appointed Wilfrid as the new abbot. Eata returned to Melrose.\n\nThe historian Bede described Eata as a gentle and greatly revered man. As an administrator Eata applied his skills at the time of plague, civil disorders and major ecclesiastical change.\n\nIn 663 Alhfrith and Wilfrid persuaded King Oswiu to hold the Synod of Whitby to decide whether the local Church, English and Irish, would come into line with the traditions of the universal Church and would practice the Roman [aka Western] Rite of that Church, or would continue to diverge from it where it clashed with Irish traditions as practised in Northumbria. Thus it would decide whether Roman traditions, would take priority in Northumbria over matters such as the clerical tonsure and the date of Easter; the synod decided to accept the arguments of Wilfrid and the king for the universal Church traditions using the Roman Rite, to which Eata, unlike Colmán of Lindisfarne, acquiesced.\n\nBefore Whitby, the abbot of Lindisfarne was also the Bishop of Lindisfarne, after Whitby these two roles were divided. The old abbot, Colman, left Lindisfarne to go back to Iona with 30 English monks. Tuda was selected as the next Bishop of Lindisfarne and Eata moved from Melrose to become abbot of Lindisfarne. He appointed Cuthbert as prior at Lindisfarne.\n\nIn 678, the Archbishop of Canterbury, Theodore split the diocese of Northumbria into two new bishoprics. Eata became bishop of Bernicia. Bernicia had two episcopal sees, one at Hexham and the other at Lindisfarne. Eata was the bishop of the whole of Bernicia for three years, after which the see of Hexham was assigned to Trumbert, and Lindisfarne to Eata. After the death of Trumbert in 684, Cuthbert was elected Bishop of Hexham, but was reluctant to leave his hermitage on Inner Farne. Following his consecration at York on Easter 685, Cuthbert went to see Eata, who was at Melrose. Eata and Cuthbert exchanged sees shortly thereafter, and for the last year of his life Eata occupied Hexham. Eata died of dysentery at Hexham in 686, and was buried in the Benedictine Abbey of Hexham.\n\nLike most of the early saints of the English Church, St. Eata was canonized by general repute of sanctity among the faithful in the regions which he helped to Christianize.\n\nEata is remembered in St. Eats' Chapel and St. Eata's Well, both in Alvie, on the south shore of Loch Alvie, in Scotland. \n\nThe only church dedicated to him in England is St Eata's Church at Atcham in Shropshire, where he is depicted in one of the stained glass windows.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2235357", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2235357", "title": "Poverty Ridge", "text": "Poverty Ridge\n\nPoverty Ridge is a ridge in unincorporated Santa Clara County, California, east of Milpitas. Calaveras Valley lies to its west, while its east side slopes down to meet Arroyo Hondo. Creeks that originate on Poverty Ridge include Calaveras and Penitencia Creeks.\n"}
{"id": "2235364", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2235364", "title": "Go/no go", "text": "Go/no go\n\nIn general go/no go testing refers to a pass/fail test (or check) principle using two boundary conditions or a binary classification.\nThe test is passed only when the \"Go\" condition is met and also the \"No go\" condition fails.\n\nThe test gives no information as to the degree of conformance to, or deviation from the boundary conditions.\nThese tests can be used for statistical process control purposes. There are specific SPC tools that use parameter based measurements (e.g., P-charts) for determining the stability of a process. \n\nIn engineering the test is traditionally used only to check noncritical parameters where the manufacturing process is believed to be stable and well controlled, and the tolerances are wide compared to the distribution of the parameter.\nFor example, the preceding checks before a Space Shuttle liftoff had the flight controller perform a go/no go check on each of the vehicle's critical systems.\n\nIn psychology Go/No-go tests are used to measure a participants capacity for sustained attention and response control.\nFor example, a go/no-go test that requires a participant to perform an action given certain stimuli (e.g., press a button – Go) and inhibit that action under a different set of stimuli (e.g., not press that same button – No-Go).\n\nIn the United States Army, drills and proficiency evaluation rubrics are based on a GO/NO GO (pass/fail) system. Evaluations involving numerical scores (such as the Physical Fitness Test) convert raw scores to GO/NO GO based on cutoffs defined by the particular performance standard for that area. Within a given skills unit, the rubric often specifies GO/NO GO scoring for each individual item or concept a soldier is expected to be trained and evaluated on. Usually, a soldier must score GO (i.e. perform satisfactorily) on all sections of an evaluation in order to advance to the next phase of training, to pass the course, and/or to attain the particular qualification.\n\nGo/no go gauges are encountered in all types of manufacturing. \nThey may measure a physical dimension, e.g. (50 ±0.01mm), or a value such as the value of a resistor (100Ω (ohms) ±1%).\nA typical example is a plug gauge.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2235374", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2235374", "title": "Lillian Beckwith", "text": "Lillian Beckwith\n\nLillian Beckwith (1916 – 3 January 2004), real name Lillian Comber, was an English writer best known for her series of semi-autobiographical books set on the Isle of Skye.\n\nBorn Lilian Lloyd in Ellesmere Port, Cheshire, she married Edward Comber in 1937, and in 1942 she moved with him to Elgol, Isle of Skye, under doctor's orders for a rest. Moving to the nearby and smaller Isle of Soay, she eventually bought and ran her own croft. Her life on the island provided the basis for seven books published between 1959 and 1978, although allegedly, some of her neighbours later felt that the somewhat comical characters on Beckwith’s fictional island of Bruach were too close to real persons, causing Beckwith to become something of a \"persona non grata\" in her former home. She moved to the Isle of Man in 1962 and died on 3 January 2004 aged 87.\n\n(The above titles were published collectively in \"A Hebridean Omnibus\", 1987)\n\n(The above titles were published collectively in \"A Second Hebridean Omnibus\", 1991)\n\nAll are also available as audiobooks narrated by Hannah Gordon.\n\nBeckwith also wrote a book entitled \"About my Father's Business\" (1971), about her childhood in her father's grocery shop.\n\n\nA collection of short stories :\n\n\nAnd a cookery book :\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2235395", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2235395", "title": "Ingimar Ingaldson", "text": "Ingimar Ingaldson\n\nIngmar Ingaldson (April 4, 1888—September 21, 1934) was a politician in Manitoba, Canada. He served in the Legislative Assembly of Manitoba from 1927 to 1932, as a member of the Progressive Party.\n\nHe was born in Hallson, North Dakota, in the United States of America, to parents of Icelandic origin. He came to Canada in 1901, and was educated at the Manitoba Agricultural College. He served as manager of several local cooperatives, including the North Star Co-operative Creamery and Arborg Farmers Co-operative Association Ltd. In 1913, Ingaldson married Violet Palson. From 1917 to 1926, he served as secretary-treasurer of the Rural Municipality of Bifrost. He was also active in drama, and took part in several plays in the region.\n\nHe first ran for the Manitoba legislature in the 1922 provincial election as a candidate of the United Farmers of Manitoba. He lost to Liberal Michael Rojeski in the constituency of Gimli by 260 votes.\n\nIngaldson ran again in the 1927 election as a Progressive, and defeated Liberal candidate Einar Jonasson by 225 votes (Rojeski, now an independent, finished third). The Progressives won a majority government, and Ingaldson served as a backbench supporter of John Bracken's administration. In 1930, he visited Iceland as a representative of the Manitoba government for the nation's millennial celebrations.\n\nIn 1932, the Progressive and Liberal parties formed an electoral alliance to prevent the Conservatives from forming government. Despite the provincial alliance, however, Jonasson again challenged Ingaldson in Gimli. Jonasson won the challenge by 271 votes, with both candidates proclaiming support for Bracken's government.\n\nIngaldson died two years later, in a drowning accident.\n"}
{"id": "2235398", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2235398", "title": "Franz von Mercy", "text": "Franz von Mercy\n\nFranz Freiherr von Mercy (or Merci), Lord of Mandre and Collenburg (c. 1590/1598 – 3 August 1645), was a German general in the Thirty Years' War who fought for the Habsburg side.\n\nFranz von Mercy who came of a noble family of Lorraine, was born at Longwy some time between 1590 and 1598. From 1606 to 1630, he was engaged in the imperial service. By the latter year he had attained high military rank, and after distinguishing himself at the first Battle of Breitenfeld (1631) he commanded a regiment of foot on the Rhine and defended Rheinfelden against the Swedes with the utmost bravery, surrendering only after enduring a five-months' siege. He now became a general officer of cavalry in the rank of \"general-feldwachtmeister\", and in 1635, 1636 and 1637 took part in further campaigns on the Rhine and Doubs.\n\nIn September 1638, the elector of Bavaria made him master-general of ordnance in the army of Bavaria, then the second largest army in Germany. In the next campaign he was practically commander-in-chief of the Bavarians, and at times also of an allied army of Imperialists and Bavarians. He was now considered one of the foremost soldiers in Europe, and was made general field marshal in 1643 when he won his great victory over the French Marshal Rantzau at the Battle of Tuttlingen (24–25 November), capturing the marshal and seven thousand men.\n\nIn the following year, Mercy opposed the French armies, now under the Great Condé and the Vicomte de Turenne. He fought, and in the end lost, the desperate Battle of Freiburg, but revenged himself the next year by inflicting upon Turenne the defeat of Mergentheim (Marienthal, Herbtshausen). Later in 1645, fighting once more against Enghien and Turenne, Mercy was killed at the Battle of Nordlingen (or Allerheim) at the crisis of the engagement, which, even without Mercy's guiding hand, was almost a drawn battle. He died on 3 August 1645. On the spot where he fell, Enghien erected a memorial, with the inscription \"Sta viator, heroem calcas\".\n"}
{"id": "2235401", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2235401", "title": "Sylvia Porter", "text": "Sylvia Porter\n\nSylvia Field Porter (June 18, 1913 – June 5, 1991) was an American economist, journalist and author. At the height of her career, her readership was greater than 40 million people.\n\nPorter was born in Patchogue, New York, on Long Island as Sylvia Field Feldman to Louis and Rose Maisel Feldman. Originally majoring in English literature, she switched to economics and finance given the impact of the Stock Market Crash of 1929. It has been suggested that her fiancé, bank employee Reed Porter, was relying upon Sylvia to explain the complications of the worldwide financial panic. They were married in 1931.\n\nShe graduated \"magna cum laude\" from Hunter College in 1932, and her expertise in government bonds enabled her to get a job as assistant to the president of an investment counseling firm. Working 12-hour days, she quickly learned more about the bond market, currency fluctuations and movements of the price of gold. In her spare time, she pursued an MBA at New York University.\n\nStarting in 1934 as S.F. Porter, she published a newsletter devoted exclusively to U.S. government bonds, and was able to persuade the \"New York Post\" to hire her to write a thrice-weekly financial column.\n\nFrom there, she began writing a financial column for \"American Banker\", and published \"How To Make Money in Government Bonds\" (1939), the first book to cover all phases of government finance as well as to explain it in plain language. This was followed by \"If War Comes to the American Home\", which relied upon simple language and interesting anecdotes to explain national defense to the average reader. In 1938, S.F. Porter became financial editor for the \"Post\". It was not until 1942 that most of Porter's avid readers learned that their most trusted financial wizard was not a wise old man, but an attractive 29-year-old woman. The \"Post\" had concluded, correctly, that the widely respected columnist would be accepted regardless of gender. The \"revelation\" paved the way for Sylvia Porter to go on the radio, and the program \"What Can I Do?\" began regular broadcast from New York's WJZ.\n\nIn 1959, Porter received an honorary degree from Bates College. She continued to add to her bibliography of bestsellers about the world of finance. In February 1966 Porter advised President Lyndon B. Johnson on the appointment of Andrew Brimmer, the first African American to the serve on the Federal Reserve Board.\n\nIn 1975, she published \"Sylvia Porter's Money Book\", subtitled \"How to Earn It, Spend It, Save It, Invest It, Borrow It and Use It to Better Your Life\". In addition to her regular newspaper column, Porter wrote monthly articles for the \"Ladies Home Journal\" during the years 1965 to 1982. After 43 years with the \"Post\", she hired on with the \"New York Daily News\" in 1978. From 1984 to 1987, she had 400,000 subscribers to her magazine, \"Sylvia Porter's Personal Finance\". In the 1980s, her name was attached to a series of personal finance software packages for home computers. In 1985, she received the Foreign Language Advocate Award from the Northeast Conference on the Teaching of Foreign Language in recognition of her support for language study in published columns. Her final work was \"Your Finances in the 1990s\".\n\nShe married banker Reed Porter in 1931. She died on June 5, 1991, in Pound Ridge, New York.\n\nA list of books authored by Sylvia Porter.\n\n"}
{"id": "2235402", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2235402", "title": "Aviatik C.I", "text": "Aviatik C.I\n\nThe Aviatik C.I was an observation aircraft which came into service during World War I in April 1915. It was a development of the Aviatik B.I and B.II models, being one of first aircraft of the new German C class of armed biplanes. In the C.I the observer sat in front of the pilot, with a machine-gun clipped on a sliding mounting fitted on a rail at either side of the cockpit. It gave the crew the means to attack enemy aircraft. The positions of the pilot and observer were reversed in last series of 50, ordered in 1917 solely for trainer purpose. There was only one aircraft built of refined C.Ia version in May 1916, with armament still in a forward cab, serving as a prototype for C.III. Later models of the plane included the Aviatik C.II and the C.III, which had more powerful engines. The C.III was produced in large numbers.\n\n548 Aviatik C.I were built in total: 402 by Aviatik (including 51 trainers and 1 C.Ia) and 146 by Hannover.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2235410", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2235410", "title": "Death Machine", "text": "Death Machine\n\nDeath Machine is a 1994 British-Japanese cyberpunk horror film written and directed by Stephen Norrington. It stars Brad Dourif, Ely Pouget, William Hootkins, John Sharian, and Richard Brake. Rachel Weisz, still early in her career at the time of the film's release, appears in a brief supporting role. The film was the directorial debut of Norrington, who had previously worked as a special effects artist on films such as \"Lifeforce, Aliens, Hardware\", \"The Witches\", and \"Split Second\".\n\nThe film garnered controversy for both its violent content and Dourif's character. These factors resulted in the film being banned in some countries, including Sri Lanka, Iran, China, Malaysia, Iraq, New Zealand, and Australia. Despite the controversy, the film received mixed reviews. Many critics praised the special effects, production design, and cinematography, but criticized the acting and plot.\n\nIn the near future, Chaank Armament has become the world's leading manufacturer of military hardware. Chaank security operatives led by John Carpenter find and secure a malfunctioning cybernetically-enhanced supersoldier codenamed Hard Man that has massacred the patrons of a roadside diner. Public outcry ensues following the incident, the majority of it directed at the company's new Chief Executive Hayden Cale.\n\nChairman of the Board Scott Ridley tries to cover up the incident and the numerous issues with the Hard Man project itself, while Cale demands for immediate and full public disclosure, having purposely leaked a number of Chaank documents to the press in defiance of Ridley's attempts to suppress knowledge about the company's shadier activities. She also demands the termination of Jack Dante, Chaank's deranged weapons' designer and the developer of Project Hard Man. Despite Carpenter's acknowledgement of the project's numerous fatal flaws, the board ignores Cale's requests, no one seeming to care for her interests except Dante himself. Cale is warned by a junior executive about Dante's unstable behavior and Nicholson, the former's late predecessor. Cale goes to confront Dante, demanding to know about Dante's secret project in Vault 10, for which he never submits progress reports. Far from cooperative, Dante instead threatens Cale, makes unsettling advances towards her and personal threats. Cale asks Ridley for help, but he refuses and tells her Nicholson took a similar interest in Dante's work, and was later killed in a mysterious accident resembling an animal mauling. During their confrontation, Cale manages to lift Ridley's access card so she can investigate on her own. Dante learns Cale has the card and confronts Ridley, killing him with a mysterious weapon.\n\nMeanwhile, a trio of eco-warriors, Raimi, Weyland, and Yutani infiltrate the Chaank high-rise headquarters in order to destroy its digitally stored assets and send the company into bankruptcy. Carpenter calls Cale after finding Ridley's mutilated body through an implanted life-sign transmitter. She investigates and finds out that whatever killed him came from Vault 10. Taking matters into her own hands, she terminates Dante's employment and seals the vault. Enraged, Dante is about to shoot her when the eco-warriors show up and take them and Carpenter hostage. They demand access to the building's secure area in order to destroy the company's digital bonds, but Cale refuses to cooperate. Raimi goes to their alternate plan of cutting through the bulkhead leading to the containment area. Dante, sensing his chance, \"helps\" them by suggesting they cut through one of the vaults surrounding the containment instead, suggesting they start at vault 10.\n\nOnce the vault is open, Dante jumps in and activates his invention, called Frontline Morale Destroyer (aka 'Warbeast'), which promptly kills Weyland. Raimi flees, meeting up with Yutani and the subdued Cale and Carpenter. Dante broadcasts his demands over the monitor system, demanding that his employment be reinstated, and that Cale \"interface with him on a regular basis\".\n\nRaimi and Yutani cancel their operation and attempt to get out of the building, along with Carpenter and Cale, but Carpenter is killed by the Warbeast inside of a lift. Later on, Raimi, Yutani and Cale get into the top floor of the building, which holds classified items unknown to Cale. Among them are the primary components of Project Hard Man, including advanced weaponry and armour. Raimi suits up and downloads the Hard Man data into his brain. Fighting off the Warbeast, he manages to it slow down enough to allow an escape via an outdoor service elevator. Yutani, however, is killed by the Warbeast after tripping and falling in front of it. Once Raimi and Cale make it back to the surface, they have an altercation with a police officer who is quickly killed by the Warbeast as it falls from the rooftop. It chases Cale and Raimi back into the building, and the former use explosives to partially incapacitate the Warbeast; however the explosion knocks out Raimi. The machine takes Cale back to Dante. During their conversation, Raimi regains consciousness and subdues Dante. The two escape, and Hayden seals Dante inside of the vault with the Warbeast.\n\n"}
{"id": "2235411", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2235411", "title": "Ralph Brown", "text": "Ralph Brown\n\nRalph William John Brown (born 18 June 1957) is an English actor and writer, known for playing Danny the drug dealer in \"Withnail and I\", the security guard Aaron (a.k.a. \"85\") in \"Alien 3\", DJ Bob Silver in \"The Boat That Rocked\" aka \"Pirate Radio\", super-roadie Del Preston in \"Wayne's World 2\", the pilot Ric Olié in \"\" and Henry Clinton in \"\". He won The Samuel Beckett Award for his first play \"Sanctuary\" written for Joint Stock Theatre Company in 1987, and the Raindance and Sapporo Film Festival awards for his first screenplay for the British film \"New Year's Day\" in 2001.\n\nBrown was born in Cambridge, the son of Heather R. and John F. W. Brown. He has a younger brother, Paul. He lived in Portsmouth, Hampshire until the age of seven, then moved to East Sussex where he attended Lewes Priory School. He graduated from the London School of Economics and Political Science with a Bachelor of Laws (LL.B) in 1979.\n\nHis film roles include Dil's on-off boyfriend Dave in the Academy Award-winning film \"The Crying Game\", Danny the drug dealer in \"Withnail & I\", Great Train Robber Ronnie Biggs in \"Buster\", roadie Del Preston in \"Wayne's World 2\", teacher and rugby league player Phil in \"Up 'n' Under\", prison guard captain Mr Burton in \"Mean Machine\", Sgt Major Harris in the Paul Schrader film \"\", and CIA renegade Mr Collins alongside Wesley Snipes in \"The Contractor\". In 1995, Brown appeared in Steven Spielberg's slavery epic \"Amistad\". In 2007, he filmed \"Caught in the Act\", an independent British film. \nBrown starred as DJ Bob Silver in \"The Boat That Rocked\" aka \"Pirate Radio\" (2009), written and directed by Richard Curtis; \"Huge\" directed by Ben Miller (2009), \"The Kid\" (2010), directed by Nick Moran; \"Mission: London\", a Bulgarian comedy directed by Dimitar Mitoviski which premiered in Sofia on 13 April 2010, and \"Sus\" (2010), written by Barrie Keeffe and directed by Robert Heath. He worked on the film \"Killing Bono\" (2010) and shot the feature film \"Dark Tide\" (2010) in Cape Town, opposite Halle Berry. He filmed \"I, Anna\" (2011) with Gabriel Byrne and Charlotte Rampling, then went on to work on \"Tower Block\" (2012) in London, \"Jack the Giant Slayer\" (2013) directed by Bryan Singer, and \"Stoker\" (2013) in Nashville, directed by Park Chan-wook. In 2016 he shot Final Score in West Ham United's recently abandoned Boleyn Ground with Dave Bautista, directed by Scott Mann. He worked with Will Smith in Ang Lee's \"Gemini Man\" (2019).\n\nAmong TV appearances, Brown appeared as PC Pete Muswell in \"The Bill\" from 1985 to 1986, appeared in Dennis Potter's \"Karaoke\" in 1995, portrayed Prince John in the BBC's adaptation of Sir Walter Scott's \"Ivanhoe\" in 1997, appeared as John Geddes in the ITV post-apocalyptic drama serial \"The Last Train\", appeared as the moustachioed policeman Wintersgill in the Channel 4/Showtime series \"Cape Wrath\", and did a memorable turn as shaven-headed gang-boss \"Miami Vice\" in the 2000 series \"Lock, Stock...The Series\".\n\nIn 2005, he appeared in \"Coronation Street\" as Barney, roadie to Status Quo, and with Julia Davis in the cult TV sitcom \"Nighty Night\" as perverted new-age sex therapist Jacques. In 2007, he appeared in the final two episodes of \"Life on Mars\" as Frank Morgan, an interim DCI in 1973 sequences, and Sam's (John Simm's) surgeon in 2006 sequences.\n\nBrown played Sarah Solemani's Dad in \"Him & Her\", which began airing in 2010 and continued through 2014 for BBC Three comedy, winning a BAFTA for the final series The Wedding. In 2012, he worked on \"Inspector George Gently\" with Martin Shaw, \"The Poison Tree\" for ITV, and \"The Mimic\" for C4. In 2013, he worked on the aborted Marvin Gaye film \"Sexual Healing\" directed by Julian Temple, and the ABC series \"The Assets\" in Vilnius, Lithuania. In 2014, he shot \"Babylon\" for C4 and \"Elementary\" for CBS, followed by \"TURN: Washington's Spies\" for AMC, playing General Sir Henry Clinton leader of the redcoats. Brown returned for series 3 and 4 (2016-2017). He also played Johann Fennhoff a.k.a. Dr Faustus, in \"Agent Carter\" for Marvel, and guest lead on \"Blacklist\".\n\nIn 2015 Brown was in all ten episodes of Legends with Sean Bean, with whom he had worked on Extremely Dangerous in the early 90s. In 2016-7 he returned to Prague with showrunner Ken Biller to shoot for Nat Geo which was premiered at the Tribeca Film Festival in April 2017. 2017 also saw the final five episodes of AMC's in Richmond, Virginia.\n\nIn June 2016, Brown played the role of Bob Clay in the BBC film \"Reg\".\n\nIn September 2017 Brown travelled to Guadeloupe for a guest lead in the BBC show \"Death In Paradise\".\n\nBrown starred as IRA Commander Jimmy Muldoon in the Tony Award winning Broadway play \"The Ferryman\" at the Bernard B. Jacobs Theatre from 19 February until 7 July 2019.\n\nEarly years were in Moving Parts Theatre Company with Rachel Feldberg, Ruth Mackenzie, Anita Lewton, Saffron Myers. John Godber adapted A Clockwork Orange for Man In The Moon, King's Road, then Brown appeared in West written & directed by Steven Berkoff at the Donmar for five months (also shot for C4). Followed by Royal Court Theatre \"Panic\", Joint Stock \"Deadlines\", The RSC \"Earwig\" by Paula Milne, and The Everyman in Liverpool playing the title role in Macbeth. Retired from the stage shortly thereafter, and returned briefly 20 years later at The Bush Theatre to play guitar in punk play The Dysfunkshonalz by writer Mike Packer. After only one play in 30 years Brown joined \"The Ferryman\" company on Broadway in February 2019 which won four Tony Awards for Best Play, Best Director, Best Set Design and Best Costume.\n\nAs a writer :\n\nRalph Brown wrote the play Sanctuary for Joint Stock Theatre Company in 1987 which toured the UK and won the Samuel Beckett Award in 1987 for \"best first play\".\n\nThe No-Neck Monsters Theatre Company brought the playwright and actor to Washington, D.C. from London to adapt his 1987 Samuel Beckett Award-winning new play \"Sanctuary.\" Re-written as a rap musical for the \"No Necks\", the show became a successful and controversial production capturing homelessness, runaways and crack hitting the streets of D.C. Scott Davenport Richards wrote the music for the rap musical and it was directed by Gwendolyn Wynne. The first rap musical in the region \"The Washington Post, NPR, American Theatre Magazine\" and \"McNeil/Lehrer Newshour\" amongst others reported on the production. The production was nominated for three Helen Hayes Awards: Outstanding Resident Musical, Outstanding Lead Actress (Deidre L. Johnson) in a Resident Musical, and Outstanding Sound Design. Performers featured were Teagle F. , Erik Todd Dellums, Paul G. Griffin, Deidra L. Johnson, Helen Patton and Barbara Robinson\n\nBrown has written two plays, both rap musicals : \"Sanctuary\" for Joint Stock Theatre Company (Samuel Beckett Award 1987), adapted for the stage in Washington, D.C., as \"Sanctuary D.C.\" produced by No-Neck Monsters Theatre Company (3 nominations for Helen Hayes Award 1988). His second play \"The House That Crack Built\" has never been produced.\n\nBrown wrote the screenplay for the film New Year's Day directed by Suri Krishnamma in 1999, released in 2001 after screening at Sundance Film Festival and winning Raindance Film Festival award in 2001 and Sapporo Film Festival in the same year.\n\nBrown also wrote the screenplays for the abandoned films Red Light Runners, High Times and In God's Footsteps.\n\nHe is also a regular contributor to the Readers Recommend music blog in \"The Guardian\".\n\nBrown has been married to actress Jenny Jules since 1992. He lives in New York City.\n"}
{"id": "2235423", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2235423", "title": "Jeff Hughes (musician)", "text": "Jeff Hughes (musician)\n\nJeff Hughes is an American traditional jazz cornet player.\n\nHughes plays and records with several bands including The Wolverine Jazz Band, The Paramount Jazz Band, The Brahmin Bellhops and has also extensively recorded with banjoist Jimmy Mazzy. He has also previously played with such bands as The Salmon City Seven, Swingland Express (led by John Holte), the Bob Connors' New Yankee Rhythm Kings and the Blue Horizon Jazz Band.\n\nHe is a widely recorded jazz musician who is known for always wearing a hat. He also has an extensive collection of vintage cornets.\n\nHe currently lives in Falmouth, Massachusetts.\n"}
{"id": "2235424", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2235424", "title": "Pierre Kartner", "text": "Pierre Kartner\n\nPetrus Antonius Laurentius \"Pierre\" Kartner (born 11 April 1935) is a Dutch musician, singer-songwriter and record producer who performs under the stage name Vader Abraham (\"Father Abraham\"). He has written around 1600 songs.\n\nKartner started his singing career at the age of eight, by winning a local festival. He lived with his family in Amsterdam and worked in a chocolate factory.\n\nKartner worked as a promoter and producer at record label Dureco with Annie de Reuver, with whom he formed Duo X. He was a member of the band Corry & de Rekels, which sold over one million records in the 1960s.\n\nHe created his well-known alter ego, Father Abraham, after writing a Dutch carnival song, \"Father Abraham had seven sons\". Initially he wore a fake beard, but subsequently grew a real beard which, along with a bowler hat, became his trademark.\n\nIn 1971 his duet with Wilma Landkroon, \"\"Zou het erg zijn, lieve opa\"\" (Would it be bad, dear grandfather?), reached Number one in the Dutch pop music charts.\n\nIn 1975, Kartner scored his second biggest hit, \"\"Het kleine café aan de haven\"\" (The little café by the harbour). This song has since been covered over 250 times in various languages.\nEnglish cover versions include \"The Little Cafe by the Harbour\" by Engelbert Humperdinck, \"My Favourite Cafe on the Harbour\" by Audrey Landers and \"The Red Rose Café\" by Demis Roussos and also The Fureys. In French the song was recorded as \"\"Le café de la Rue d'Amérique\"\" by Mireille Mathieu and \"\"Le café des trois Colombes\"\" by Joe Dassin, and in German as \"\"Die kleine Kneipe\"\" by Peter Alexander.\n\nIn May 1977, Kartner was asked to make a promotional song about The Smurfs. The record company pressed only 1,000 copies of the single, called \"The Smurf Song\", since they were unsure about the single's success. However, they were all sold within one day at a Schlager festival. After a repress, 400,000 singles were quickly sold. A full Smurfs album was then created, which sold 500,000 copies. The album was released in several dozen countries, including France, Germany, Italy, Japan, Spain, and Sweden, and in various different languages. The album scored a number one hit in 16 countries. Subsequently, Kartner released other Smurf-themed albums, again in various countries and languages, such as \"Ga je mee naar Smurfenland\" (Dutch) and \"Vater Abraham im Land der Schlümpfe\" (German). In all, Kartner's Smurf works have sold around 25 million copies.\n\nAs a reaction to the 1973 oil crisis, Kartner and the right-wing politician Hendrik Koekoek recorded the duet \"\"Den Uyl is in den olie\"\" (den Uyl is in the oil), which blamed the Social Democratic prime minister Joop den Uyl and Arabs for the crisis. In the carnival season of 1975, he published \"\"Wat doen we met die Arabieren hier\"\" (What do we do with the Arabs here?), part of which translates as \"What shall we do with the Arabs here?/They can't be trusted with our pretty women here.“ The record company has subsequently deleted the song. His 1976 song, \"\"Het leger der werklozen\"\" (The army of unemployed) portrays the jobless as people who spend the day sitting in pubs, drinking alcohol. \n\nIn 2002 he recorded \"\"Wimmetje gaat, Pimmetje komt\"\" (Wim goes, Pim comes) with the populist politician Pim Fortuyn.\n\nIn 1981 Kartner recorded a song about Weepuls, \"\"Wij zijn de wuppies\"\" (We are the Weepuls). He wrote the music for the opening and closing credits on the Japanese cartoon adaption of the 1990 TV series \"Moomin\" and \"Ik ben verliefd (Shalalie)\", the Dutch entry for the 2010 Eurovision Song Contest.\n\nKartner won the Buma Lifetime Achievement Award in 2015.\n\nKartner lives in Breda with his wife Annie.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2235461", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2235461", "title": "Sandra Gould", "text": "Sandra Gould\n\nSandra Gould (July 23, 1916 – July 20, 1999) was an American actress, perhaps best known for her role as Gladys Kravitz on the sitcom \"Bewitched\". Gould was the second actress to portray the role, debuting in the third season.\n\nGould was born in Brooklyn, New York. She began acting in films with an uncredited role in \"T-Men\" (1947), and was the Phone Operator in \"Romance on the High Seas\" (1948), Doris Day's debut film. She appeared in several uncredited roles for the remainder of the decade, and received her first screen credit with \"The Story of Molly X\" (1949). During the same decade, Gould enjoyed a four-year run as Miss Duffy, the man-hungry daughter of the forever-unheard owner of radio's \"Duffy's Tavern\". \n\nIn 1953, Gould appeared as a guest in an episode of \"Letter to Loretta\" with Loretta Young. In 1959 she played a secretary in the Academy Award-nominated \"Imitation of Life\" with Lana Turner and Juanita Moore. She continued to guest star in the 1950s and 1960s in such television series as \"I Love Lucy\", \"I Married Joan\", \"December Bride\", \"Maverick\", \"The Flintstones\", \"The Twilight Zone\", \"The Lucy Show\", \"Burke's Law\", \"I Dream of Jeannie\", \"Love, American Style\", \"Gilligan's Island\", \"The Brady Bunch\" and \"Mister Ed\". She played a prominent supporting role in the film \"The Ghost and Mr. Chicken\" in 1966. In 1963, Gould released a comedy single record entitled \"Hello Melvin (This Is Mama)\" as an answer to Allan Sherman's hit \"Hello Muddah, Hello Fadduh\".\n\nIn September 1966, Gould replaced her friend Alice Pearce, who had been battling ovarian cancer during the second season of the ABC-TV situation comedy \"Bewitched\", and had died in March. The producers were undecided about what to do with the character of Gladys, so at first they had actress Mary Grace Canfield brought in to play Harriet Kravitz, Abner's sister, who was visiting him while his wife was visiting her mother. Soon after, Sandra Gould got the role of Mrs. Kravitz when actress-comedian Alice Ghostley turned down the role. (A few years later, Ghostley became a semi-regular on the series playing Esmeralda, a well-meaning but inept witch.)\n\nIn the role of Gladys, Gould's over-the-top performance and shrill voice were popular with viewers, and she succeeded ultimately in making the character her own. She remained with the series through its 7th season. The Kravitzes were referenced once in the final/8th season (ep 241 \"Three Men and a Witch on a Horse\") but the characters did not appear. After \"Bewitched\" was cancelled in 1972, Gould reprised the role of Gladys five years later in a spin-off of the series, \"Tabitha\". Gould also made appearances on \"Columbo\", \"The Brady Bunch\", \"Adam-12\", \"Punky Brewster\", \"Friends\", and \"Veronica's Closet\".\n\nTwice married, Gould was the widow of broadcasting executive Larry Berns and television/film director Hollingsworth Morse.\nWith Berns she had one son, Michael Berns, in 1965.\n\nAs a Democrat, she supported Adlai Stevenson in the 1952 presidential election.\n\nGould died on July 20, 1999 in Burbank, California of a stroke following heart surgery, three days before her 83rd birthday. Upon her death, she was cremated and her ashes returned to her surviving son.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2235471", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2235471", "title": "Plai", "text": "Plai\n\nPlai may refer to several places in Romania:\n\n"}
{"id": "2235482", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2235482", "title": "Moses Hardy", "text": "Moses Hardy\n\nMoses Hardy (January 6, 1894 – December 7, 2006) was, at age 112, the last surviving black veteran of World War I and one of the last surviving American veterans of that war. The son of former slaves, Hardy was born in 1894 and lived a religious and farming life until he signed up to serve overseas in World War I in July 1918. He served in the segregated 805th infantry, which was assigned a variety of manual labor and support tasks. Hardy himself served as a scout, supplying the front line troops when necessary. Though Hardy did experience combat, he was never seriously injured and rarely discussed his experiences concerning the fighting. Instead, he preferred to recount stories about the food, the bravery of the soldiers and the weather in France.\n\nAfter the war, he took on a variety of jobs including school bus driver, farmer, deacon and cosmetics salesman, the latter of which he performed well past his 100th birthday. He received the Victory Medal, a special medal from the Mississippi National Guard and the French Légion d'honneur. In 1999, the Mississippi Legislature adopted a resolution recognizing him as an outstanding citizen of Mississippi. At the time of his death, at the age of 112, he was recognized as the oldest combat veteran ever, the oldest male ever recorded in Mississippi and the second-oldest man and World War I veteran in the world.\n\nHardy was born in Aberdeen, Mississippi in 1894. Hardy's parents, Morris Hardy—born in the 1840s—and Nancy Hardy, were former slaves who after the Civil War had purchased of land in Mississippi from a Chickasaw Native American for a dollar. The Hardy family was a deeply religious one, and Moses would later recount that Exodus 20:12, which instructed one to honor their parents, was his favorite Bible passage and one which he lived by. Hardy was married once, to a woman by the name of Fannie Marshall, with whom he would end up having eight children.\n\nHardy's service in France lasted from July 1918 to July 1919, and included thirty-nine combat days. As an African American, he served in a segregated army unit, the 805th Pioneer Infantry, which was commanded by white officers. Although the unit's purpose was to provide support for engineer regiments, it was also an infantry unit that was equipped to fight if necessary. The unit focused mainly of the tasks of stevedores, such as unloading cargo from ships, but also performed other manual labor tasks, such as cooking and organizing burials. Hardy's outfit was armed solely with rifles, instead of standard-issue machine guns. After the war, Hardy's division was responsible for cleaning up the battlefields and removing the dead.\n\nHardy himself admitted to his family that he was \"scared to death\" when he first arrived overseas, but believed that the soldiers were fed something to make them brave, which he referred to as \"brave pills\". After a short time in the military, he claimed that he was not afraid of anything that he experienced from then on. Even in the heat of battle, Hardy professed that he would get \"wound up\" at times, but never frightened. He recalled many strange experiences with food and drink, such as getting used to drinking green water from canteens and eating hardtacks, which he found to be surprisingly filling. To go with this, there was often little more than small tins of ham or chicken and occasionally coffee to drink and pudding or pie for dessert. Hardy also witnessed many of his friends get killed in action, and relied on his faith in God to get him through the toughest times.\n\nHardy often acted as a scout who would help bring supplies to troops on the front line. On September 25, 1918, he was present at the Meuse River during a mustard gas attack and, at some point during the war, he received an injury to his knee. Hardy rarely spoke about the fighting itself, and preferred to talk about France's weather when asked about his experiences overseas.\n\nThroughout the years, he received the Victory Medal, the Occupational Medal from the Mississippi Army National Guard, an honourable discharge (which he had not received upon leaving the army) and the French Légion d'honneur. In 1999, when he was 105 years old, the Mississippi Legislature adopted a resolution recognizing him as an outstanding citizen of Mississippi. At the time, he was known as the oldest living World War I veteran, as Emiliano Mercado del Toro had not yet been discovered. He was interviewed by Treehouse Productions in 2006 as part of their Living History Project, a radio tribute to the last surviving World War I veterans that was hosted by Walter Cronkite. Though he could not speak coherently, his son Haywood Hardy, himself 80 years old at the time, recalled some of the stories that his father had told him.\n\nHardy did not serve in World War II and instead drove a school bus, farmed and sold linaments and wigs for \"Lucky Heart\" cosmetics until his retirement. He reportedly continued to go door-to-door for several years past his centenary, even resorting to phone sales when his children hid the keys of his 1972 Chevrolet Caprice. The youngest of his eight children, Jean Dukes, was born in the late 1940s. He also served as a deacon and superintendent of a Sunday School class at Mount Olive Church for over 75 years. His son claimed that, until about four years before he died, his father was healthy enough to drive his car into town every day. Hardy's longevity was also credited to a daily meal that consisted of cabbage, corn bread, butter milk, potatoes and Dr Pepper, and the fact that he never drank alcohol or smoked in his life. Until a few years before his death, it was claimed that Hardy had never had a seriously ill day in his life and that he never took medicine, as it only made him sick. Hardy lived on his own until 2004 when his legs weakened and he found it almost impossible to walk. He was placed in a rest home, but was still able to feed himself and pass the days watching \"The Oprah Winfrey Show\" and \"The Price Is Right\".\n\nAt the time of his death, he was the oldest United States combat veteran ever, the oldest male ever recorded in Mississippi and had outlived at least three of his eight children. It was reported that he had several dozen grandchildren and great-grandchildren. He was also ranked as the sixth-oldest living verified person in the world, the second-oldest man and World War I veteran behind only del Toro and the last African American one. Although he suffered from mild dementia in his later years, he was reported to have been completely lucid through his final days and his death was attributed to natural causes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2235486", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2235486", "title": "Halleck Tustenuggee", "text": "Halleck Tustenuggee\n\nHalleck Tustenuggee (also spelled Halek Tustenuggee and Hallock Tustenuggee) (c. 1807 – ?) was a 19th-century Seminole warchief. He fought against the United States government in the Second Seminole War and for the government in the American Civil War.\n\n\"Tustenuggee\", translated as \"Warrior\" or \"Grand Chief of War\", was a common surname for Seminole warchiefs. Halleck was born in central Florida in the \"Miccosuke\" clan. He vehemently opposed the seizure of Indian lands by whites, and even killed his own sister by cutting her throat when she talked about surrender. He fought at the Battle of Lake Okeechobee on December 25, 1837, and took control of the Seminole force from their aged warchief Arpeika (also known as \"Sam Jones\").\n\nOn April 22, 1839, Halleck and other Seminole leaders met with Maj. Gen. Alexander Macomb, the new military commander in Florida, and received written assurance that their people could indefinitely remain in Florida if they stayed near Lake Okeechobee. Both parties believed that the war was finally over, but attacks by other bands of Indians in south Florida continued and the ceasefire soon ended.\nHalleck was severely wounded by U.S. troops at a skirmish at Fort King (in present-day Ocala) in April 1840 against Capt. Gabriel J. Rains (a future Civil War Confederate General). After he recovered, Halleck Tustenuggee went on a bloody rampage in north Florida for two years, leading a series of raids and skirmishes. In January 1842, the army sent the Second Infantry Regiment in pursuit of Halleck's warband. They located the Seminoles' camp near Lake George, but the Indians escaped capture.\n\nHalleck, with a band of seventy warriors, was finally defeated by Federal troops on April 19, 1842, near the settlement of \"Peliklakaha Hammock\" (in today's Lake County, Florida), the last battle of the Second Seminole War in Florida. The chief traveled from fort to fort talking about a formal surrender, all the while collecting supplies and rations for his remaining people. Finally, Federal officer William J. Worth, wise to the trick, lured Halleck's family to Fort King with a promise of food and whiskey at a celebration. Halleck soon arrived and was captured. He was held as a prisoner of war with his people on Cedar Key. On July 14, Halleck and 66 of his followers were transported out of Florida for the West. They arrived at Fort Gibson in the Indian Territory on September 5, 1842. Halleck briefly returned to Florida in 1850 to try to negotiate with Chief Billy Bowlegs, who was still opposing resettlement.\n\nDuring the Civil War, Halleck Tustenuggee supported the Federal government. When Confederate troops and pro-South Indian tribes moved against pro-Union Indians, Halleck joined the band of Creek leader Opothleyahola. He led his Seminole warriors in three battles — Round Mountain, Chusto-Talasah and Chustenahlah, where they were defeated and forced to flee to Kansas in severe winter weather. Halleck and his survivors settled near Fort Row, where several died of exposure and disease.\n\n"}
{"id": "2235494", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2235494", "title": "Sindia", "text": "Sindia\n\nSindia may refer to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2235504", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2235504", "title": "First Law", "text": "First Law\n\n\"First Law\" is a science fiction short story by American writer Isaac Asimov, first published in the October 1956 issue of \"Fantastic Universe\" magazine and later collected in \"The Rest of the Robots\" (1964) and \"The Complete Robot\" (1982). The title of the story is a reference to the first of the Three Laws of Robotics.\n\nIn 1941 John W. Campbell of \"Astounding Science Fiction\" began a new department, \"Probability Zero\", for very short stories. He hoped to publish new writers, but wanted experienced authors early on, including Isaac Asimov. To Asimov's surprise, Campbell rejected \"Big Game\" and \"First Law\" in November and December 1941. Having learned that a rejected story might sell elsewhere, he saved \"First Law\" until it was published by \"Fantastic Universe\" in October 1956.\n\nThe story is very short, only three pages in length, and takes the form of Mike Donovan's account of an incident that occurred on Titan, one of Saturn's moons. He tells of a malfunctioning robot named Emma that escaped from the base and was later encountered by Donovan while he was lost during a storm. While Donovan's life was in danger, Emma chose to protect its offspring, a small robot that it had built, instead of assisting him. This was a direct violation of the First Law of Robotics, which states that \"a robot may not injure a human being, or through inaction allow a human being to come to harm\". Apparently, maternal instincts in the robot took precedence over its programming, an example of the commonly encountered literary theme of paternalism in Asimov's work.\n\nWhile such direct disobedience of the First Law is not described in any other robot story by Asimov, he points out that the story is told by Donovan, who may be an unreliable narrator. Asimov admits that \"I was being funny at the expense of my robots\". In \"The Complete Robot\", he also points out that this story is intended as a parody and is not to be taken seriously.\n"}
{"id": "2235509", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2235509", "title": "Ayub Kalule", "text": "Ayub Kalule\n\nAyub Kalule (born 6 January 1954) is a retired boxer from Uganda, who first came to prominence when he won the Amateur World Welterweight Title at the inaugural 1974 World Championships in Havana, Cuba. He turned professional and based himself in Denmark, and went on to win the world light-middleweight championship. He subsequently lost the title to Sugar Ray Leonard.\n\nBorn in Kampala, he began his professional boxing career in 1976 when he won a four-round decision over Kurt Hombach in Copenhagen, Denmark. Kalule would be based out of Denmark for the rest of his career. He then won 29 more victories, achieving 30 wins, 0 losses. Included in those victories were defeats of Alipata Korovou for the Commonwealth Middleweight Title and a 10-round decision of former US Gold Medalist Sugar Ray Seales.\n\nOn 24 October 1979, Kalule travelled to Akita, Japan to take on Masashi Kudo for the Lineal and WBA Junior middleweight titles. Kalule easily outboxed the champion and thus captured the coveted world championship crown. He then successfully defended the title four times before taking on the legendary Sugar Ray Leonard on 25 June 1981 in the Houston Astrodome. A virtual unknown in the United States, Kalule was considered little more than a courier waiting to deliver the belt to Leonard. The fight proved much more difficult for Leonard as Kalule repeatedly landed straight lefts and fought on an almost even ground for the first five or six rounds. Slowly Leonard started to take control and in the 9th round ended the fight and Kalule's reign as WBA Champion.\n\nKalule fought on until the beginning of 1986 and managed to win the European Middleweight Title and defend it successfully against future world champion Sumbu Kalambay. Prior to that, he received another shot at the WBA Jr Middleweight Title held at that time by Davey Moore. Kalule put up a very good fight, but again was KO'd, this time in the 10th round. Ayub's career ended on 5 February 1986 when he lost the European Middleweight Title to Herol Graham. He finished his career with a very impressive record of 46–4 with 23 KOs.\n\n\n\n\n!colspan=\"3\" style=\"background:#C1D8FF;\"| Regional titles\n"}
{"id": "2235511", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2235511", "title": "Time for print", "text": "Time for print\n\nTime for prints (or trade for prints, time for pics, TFP, and sometimes prints for time, PFT) is a term many photography communities use to describe an arrangement between a model and a photographer whereby the photographer agrees to provide the model with a certain number of pictures of selected photographs from the session, and a release or license to use those pictures in return for the model's time. The word 'Time' refers a person's time spent during the photo shoot. The Word \"Prints\" refers to a physically printed photo, usually on photo paper. The foundation of the concept of TFP being that both a photographer and a model get together and exchange their 'time', for free, and each receives the photos for their own usage. Since photos can now be delivered by means other than 'Prints,' some variant wordings of this arrangement are: Time for CD or Trade for CD (TFCD). With TFCD, the photographer provides the selection of images on a CD instead of prints. Similarly, with the ease and convenience of digital high-resolution images, the generic term TF* has evolved, where it does not necessarily refer to a tangible CD or printed image since the same accepted rules apply.\n\nThere are benefits to both parties of such an arrangement. The model can build a portfolio of photographs to show to prospective clients at little or no cost, while the photographer gets a model for a particular project or their portfolio with little if any outlay of cash.\n\nEach photo shoot arranged is usually negotiated separately, and the terms can vary widely. The number of pictures which the photographer delivers to the model can range from a single photograph up to all shots taken. Speed of delivery can vary as well, from a CD burned at the end of the shoot before the model leaves up to several months. Unless such a time period has been specifically discussed and agreed prior to the shoot, finished pictures ideally should be delivered within two weeks.\n\nDepending on local laws, a model or photographer might agree to limit or to 'not use' some of the pictures from a shoot. The model or photographer may agree to only use specifically agreed upon pictures (to avoid sub-standard pictures that damage the photographer's or model's reputation), or the photographer may agree to only use certain images in printed publications and not on the internet.\n\nLegal requirements for a model release vary from place to place and from situation to situation, as does the situation regarding copyright. For example, under the Copyright, Designs and Patents Act 1988, a photographer in the United Kingdom can, subject to certain exclusions and unless specifically agreed to the contrary, use any photograph in any way he or she chooses, including selling them for profit. This does not necessarily apply in other countries. These issues should be discussed and agreed prior to the shoot, in writing if necessary.\n\nNegotiated compensation for a model's time can range from a straight cash figure, possibly including an amount for travel expenses or, depending on legal requirements, an extra amount for signing a model release, to a simple number of pictures in a chosen format. It can include part-pay, part-TFP arrangements or \"Time For Clothes\" agreements where the model is given some or all of the clothing which was procured for the shoot.\n\nWhile sometimes people use this term to mean TFP, agencies more commonly use it in the context of sending a new model to a photographer for a short session for portfolio pictures. While the model ultimately pays for these pictures, the agency normally pays in advance and deducts it from the model's earnings. Test shoots are also used by models to build experience.\nTest was also created by photographers to try out new ideas for final images to show a client, this is with no payment from either party.\n"}
{"id": "2235517", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2235517", "title": "Audism", "text": "Audism\n\nAudism is a form of discrimination aimed at persons who are deaf and the actions that deaf persons do to assist in communication with others. Tom L. Humphries coined the term in his doctoral dissertation in 1975, but it did not start to catch on until Harlan Lane used it in his own writings. Humphries originally applied audism to individual attitudes and practices; whereas Lane broadened the term to include oppression of deaf people.\n\nLinguistic audism can occur by banning use of sign languages. Such as the 1880 Milan conference when signed language was banned in schools. Many schools throughout the world engaged in such prohibition and some continue to do so. Audism may also be found in deaf education and in other corporate institutions and groups that deal with deafness. In these cases the educators, administrators, and professionals within these organizations behave in a way that is meant to dominate or marginalize the Deaf community.\n\nDysconscious audism favors what is normal for hearing people. This limits Deaf culture and pride, by creating an environment in which deaf people must conform to the ways of hearing people. It greatly impacts Deaf education in terms of shunning sign languages in favor of communication that is based on spoken languages, and more acceptable to hearing people.\n\nAdditionally, deaf people can practice forms of discrimination against members of their own community, based on what they believe is acceptable behavior, use of language, or social association. Dr. Genie Gertz explored examples of such audism in American society in her published dissertation. Audism can also occur between groups of deaf people, with some who choose not to use a sign language and not to identify with Deaf culture considering themselves to be superior to those who do, or members of the Deaf community asserting superiority over deaf people who use listening and spoken language to communicate.\n\nActive audism is when a person knowingly engages in audist behavior. The person knows the effects of audism, yet still engages in this behavior and has an audist attitude. Passive audism is when a person is engaging in audist behavior, yet does not have knowledge about the Deaf community's values. Passive audists do not think about how their actions or words concern deaf individuals, hearing individuals, or sign language.\n\nBen Bahan describes audism in two forms: overt and covert audism. Overt audism is a term used to define Deaf people and their culture as inferior to hearing culture. In the medical field, this idea can manifest by looking at deafness as something to be fixed, but can also be applied to practices such as audiology, speech therapy, medicine psychology, social work and other fields. This does not mean that all institutions inherently practice audism but that they are revert to audiological tendencies. These two forms illustrate the exclusion of Deaf people from specific institutions or practices. Bahan notes inventions such as telephones, radios, or a lunch bell can be considered audist because they are sound-based technologies.\n\nThe principles and ideas behind audism have been experienced by the Deaf community for many centuries, but the term \"audism\" was first coined in 1975 by Deaf scholar Tom Humphries in his unpublished essay. Humphries originally defined audism as, \"the notion that one is superior based on one's ability to hear or behave in the manner of one who hears\". Since then, other scholars, such as Harlan Lane in his book, \"Mask of Benevolence,\" have attempted to further expand on Humphries' definition to include different levels of audism: individual, institutional, metaphysical, and laissez-faire. As Humphries' definition stands, it only incorporates individual audism, which includes Deaf jokes, hate crimes, and low classroom expectations of Deaf people.\n\nThe idea that there is systemic, or institutional, audism within society was originally proposed in Harlan Lane's \"Mask of Benevolence,\" as an extension of David T. Wellman's concept of institutional racism. It was further expanded by H-Dirksen Bauman, in \"Audism: Exploring the Metaphysics of Oppression,\" and again, by Richard Eckert and Amy Rowley, in \"Audism: A Theory and Practice of Audiocentric Privilege\", and institutional audism is now described as, \"a structural system of exploitative advantage that focuses on and perpetuates the subordination of Deaf Communities of origin, language, and culture\".\n\nDespite scholars' best efforts to incorporate all aspects of audism, still, there is another important facet of audism. Scholars have noted that deaf people who used their voice had more societal rights than those deaf people who did not have the ability to speak. In attempt to quantify this relationship, Bauman extended the concept of phonocentrism proposed by Jacques Derrida, \"the supremacy of speech and repression of nonphonetic forms of communication\", and developed the term, metaphysical audism. Metaphysical audism refers to the idea of language being a distinguishing factor in what makes us human; however, with metaphysical audism, language becomes confused with speech, and in turn, speech becomes linked to being human.\n\nThe seeds of audism were reflected in the lack of early documentation and a misunderstanding of deaf people and their language. Limited evidence can be provided about the treatment of deaf individuals by ancient civilizations. However, the documentation that is provided shows a resistance towards deaf people as a functioning part of society. Aristotle's Poetics alluded that those labeled as \"disabled\" would be put to death for the benefit of the rest of society. During the time of the Renaissance, efforts to educate deaf individuals posed complications due to the lack of literacy from the vast majority of society, deaf and hearing alike. In New England during the pilgrimage to America, any variant from the category of the norm was grounds for witchcraft or sorcery.\n\nRichard Eckert coined the term \"laissez-faire audism\" to indicate the modern state of acknowledging members the Deaf community's humanity, but denying their independence, for example through pediatric cochlear implantation.\n\nAudiological ideologies have shaped curriculum within Deaf Education. Because Deaf people make up 1% of the American population, teachers are less equipped to work with the needs of Deaf or hard of hearing students. In the USA, the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA) and the Education for all Handicapped Children Act (EAHCA) allow deaf children to more easily participate in mainstream public education if their families so choose. These acts provide education policies that reinforced integration of deaf individuals into hearing society. Signed languages were generally replaced with Manually Coded English as a method of communication and Deaf/Hard of Hearing students were placed with hearing students in hopes that this would further speech development.\n\nInstitutions such as the National Association of the Deaf (NAD) continue to work with U.S. Officials to improve these policies, claiming these educational practices were audist and create precedence of one language over another by implementing English as the primary language for instruction.\n\nLack of access to communication in trials of deaf individuals has resulted in mistrials attributed to factors including interpreter and CART provider error and unqualified interpretation, all contributing to an overall lack of understanding or misunderstanding by the judge and members of the jury. These factors have also led to unlawful sentences in some criminal cases. The Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) requires Deaf individuals be given equal access in the courtroom through a qualified interpreter. The law establishes stricter guidelines for interpreting licensure, aiming to reduce the number of errors in the courtroom.\n\nConversely, a deaf man convicted of rape in Norway successfully appealed for a shorter sentence by arguing his deafness constituted a mitigating circumstance, reducing his degree of culpability for the crime. The court's decision angered the Norwegian Deaf community, which perceived the rationale behind the reduced sentence as patronizing, ignoring the capacity of deaf individuals to reason and thus to be held fully accountable and to receive the same sentences as other, hearing, Norwegian citizens.\n\nAnother example of audism in the legal system, was what happened to a man by the name of Magdiel Sanchez. This man was shot and killed in front of his house by a police officer for approaching them with a metal pipe, which according to his neighbors he used to communicate and ward off stray dogs.\n\nAccording to a news article from CNN there was a hit and run committed by Magdiel Sanchez’s father (he did not hit a person) and when the police arrived at the scene, Magdiel was on his porch and began to walk towards the officers with a metal pipe. The officers Sgt Christopher Barnes and, Lt Matthew Lindsey, yelled for Sanchez to drop his pipe; but being deaf he could not hear them. Sanchez’s neighbors who were on the scene, tried to tell the officers that Magdiel couldn’t hear them because he was deaf.\n\nWhile this may not be exactly audism, it does show that the legal system did not have any protocol for communicating with deaf people; nor did they have someway to identify, if a person is deaf or hard of hearing, such as signing “are you deaf?” to a person who does not respond to verbal demands.\n\nDomestic crimes committed among and against deaf individuals tend to have a lower investigation rate than domestic crime between hearing individuals. A study shows that deaf women have a higher rate of abuse than hearing women, although the disparity has attracted little attention for further research.\n\nAmong deaf individuals incarcerated in Texas in 2004, 20% were judged \"linguistically incompetent\", unable to either understand the charges they faced or to meaningfully participate in the creation of their defense, while another 30% were \"adjudicatively incompetent, unable to understand the legal proceedings without targeted instructional intervention. These statuses were the results of either lack of fluency in any language or functional illiteracy, respectively. As a result, it is unlikely that these deaf inmates had received their constitutional right to due process of law. However, all deaf inmates studied had nevertheless been convicted and incarcerated, possible violations of their constitutional rights. Notably, deaf individuals who were either ASL-dominant bilinguals equally comfortable in both ASL and English were the least likely to fall into either category and therefore the most likely to have received due process.\n\nAudism can be closely linked to the term linguicism, or ideologies that pertain to the way in which an institution is facilitated and regulated in favor of a dominant culture through the basis of language. Linguicism highlights spoken language to be a part of the dominant culture and signed languages to be of the minority culture, expanding that those who use spoken language are provided with more accessible economic, social and political resources which give them an advantage over those who use signed languages.\n\nAudism is linked to phonocentric values in defining linguistics. Linguistic terminology has been determined by sound based methodologies, for instance the concept of linearity in spoken languages fails to recognize the grammatical structures of visual-manual-kinesthetic based languages. Additionally, early twentieth century linguists determined those without sound-based languages did not possess any capacity for language while others romanticized sign languages or believed them to be primitive. However, additional linguists argue this claim minimizes the advances in Deaf Studies and the recognition of signed languages as a part of the linguistic lexicon.\n\nFor centuries, there has been controversy over whether linguistic theory pertains to signed languages. It was not until William Stokoe contested this argument and found structural evidence that linked ASL to linguistic rules that ASL was finally recognized as a language. These claims, however, are still contested by some lawmakers and educators due to the inability to recognize the rules of visual-modal languages and misconceptions of their origins outside of sound-based languages.\n\nPersonal accounts of audism have been documented from documentaries such as \"Audism Unveiled\", a movie that discusses the oppression of deaf people and their personal struggles with audism. Other accounts can be seen through the research of academics such as Peter Hauser whose TedTalk illustrated the detriments audism has on the identity. His studied illustrated a connection between the lack of exposure to Deaf culture and a deaf person's self esteem.\n\nActivists in the Deaf community claim that audists harm Deaf culture by considering deafness a disability, rather than as a cultural difference. Some Deaf activists call cochlear implants the audists' tool of cultural genocide that is wiping out the Deaf community.\n\nAs many as 95% of deaf children in the US are born to hearing parents.\n\nAlexander Graham Bell – inventor of the telephone. An avid supporter of eugenics, he published the essay \"Memoir Upon the Formation of a Deaf Variety of the Human Race\" which condemned intermarriage between Deaf individuals. He championed the oralist movement, his associated endeavors including pushing for the removal of sign language from Deaf schools to be replaced with his own alphabet called \"Visible Speech\", and striving to cure deafness.\n\nHorace Mann founded the first school for the Deaf in Connecticut but whose policies educational reform that pushed the oralist methods, such as a focus on lipreading and articulation in the education of deaf children.\n\nGarrick Mallery studied Indian culture and sign language for the Bureau of Ethnology in the Smithsonian Institution. Although he recognized the validity of modal languages, he argued that signed languages were inferior to oral languages on the basis that they could not be written down.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2235521", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2235521", "title": "Red Metropolitana de Movilidad", "text": "Red Metropolitana de Movilidad\n\nRed Metropolitana de Movilidad (English: \"Metropolitan Mobility Network\"; named Transantiago until March 2019) is a public transport system that serves Santiago, the capital of Chile. It is considered the most ambitious transport reform undertaken by a developing country according to the World Resources Institute.\n\nThe system, largely influenced by Bogotá, Colombia's TransMilenio and Curitiba, Brazil's RIT, was introduced on February 10, 2007. It standardized bus routes and eliminated redundancy of same; redundancies were commonplace in the old system, which was run by thousands of independent bus operators. The system combines local (feeder) bus lines, main bus lines and the Metro (subway) network. It includes an integrated fare system, which allows passengers to make bus-to-bus or bus-to-metro transfers for the price of one ticket, using a single contactless smart card.\n\nTransantiago's implementation was problematic, as the decreased bus fleet and the newer routes have proved insufficient to properly serve a population inadequately informed of pending changes. The major complaints are the lack of buses and their inconsistent frequencies, missing or poor infrastructure (such as segregated corridors, prepaid areas and bus stops), the network's coverage, and the number of transfers needed for longer trips. As a result, users have overcrowded the Metro, which is generally held to be fast and dependable.\n\nTransantiago's first stage of implementation began on October 22, 2005, when a group of ten new companies took control of the capital's bus system, immediately introducing 1,181 new, modern low-floor buses (approximately half of them being articulated) made by Volvo in Brazil, replacing 461 yellow-colored buses from the old system. The new buses will temporarily run alongside the over 7,000 existing older buses that will be gradually removed from the system until 2010. In October 2006, a users' information system was introduced.\n\nTransantiago became fully operational on February 10, 2007, with the introduction of a new route system dividing bus lines into two complementary groups: main and local lines. In addition, a new fare structure was implemented, allowing transfers at small or zero fares between buses and metro, when using the new contactless smartcard. 1,776 new buses will operate at this stage. The older yellow-colored (now painted over) buses will only operate through the secondary local lines in conjunction with new but simpler buses. It is expected that by 2010, the older buses will be completely replaced by over 4,600 new vehicles.\n\n\nBus services were divided into two subsystems. The first subsystem corresponds to the main bus lines, which complementing the metro network allow long trips between different zones of the city. The second subsystem corresponds to the local (or feeder) bus lines, which allow short trips and feed the metro and main bus lines. Local services are organized in ten units, each corresponding to one or more municipalities of Santiago.\n\nIn June 2012, the scheme of local and trunk services was disbanded. The requirement to have each business unit with different companies was eliminated and the relationship between these tours are encouraged, in order to provide better service to passengers by reducing transfers. From that moment seven operating units, each assigned to a concessionaire which included both trunk and local services were generated. The buses are painted, according to Business Unit won each company, which is identified by a specific color. In this way, the color of the buses does not represent the zone covering the system as stipulated in the beginning and remained until June 2012.\nThe details of both the main bus lines and the local bus lines can be seen in the official .\n\nAn integrated fares scheme was introduced for buses and metro, allowing to transfer for free or paying a small transfer charge. During the first six months of operation, up to three transfers are completely free. The definitive fare scheme considers two basic fares (local and main fares), in addition to the transfer fares.\n\nThe local fare will allow local trips inside a local area, also allowing free transfers between local services in that area. The main fare will be a little higher and will allow trips both in the main bus lines and metro, including free transfers between them. Finally, a transfer fare will have to be paid when transferring between a main bus service (or metro) and a local service. This transfer fare will be much smaller than the basic fares. As before, students will be allowed to pay reduced fares, at 35% of the normal ones.\n\nFares will be adjusted periodically, according to the changes in the main input prices (fuel, etc.) of the operators. The way in which the fare adjustments is calculated has been established in the operation contracts. Therefore, neither operators nor the authorities are able to change the fares at will.\n\nThe main payment system of Transantiago is a Contactless smart card called \"Tarjeta Bip!\" similar to the Multivia card, which was previously operated by the metro. This card is used both in buses and metro as a prepaid card. The access to the reduced or free transfer fares is only possible when using this card, as the electronic system associated to the card automatically recognizes if users are starting their trip or just making a transfer. In this way, the system can determine whether the basic fare is to be charged or if a transfer or free fare applies. Passengers who do not have the card may pay in cash (only in feeder buses), but at a higher fare and without possibility of reduced transfers.\n\nThe operation of the payment system was tendered to a private company. Its main tasks are the distribution and charging of the card, the administration of the revenues and the payment to the operators, according to the rules established in the contracts.\n\nAnother component of the system is the information manager and users' information provider, which was tendered and awarded to the private company Tata Consultancy Services Chile in 2007. Its main tasks are: provide information for the users both before and after the implementation of the system, provide information about the localization of the buses to the operators and coordinate emergencies with the relevant bodies.\n\n In comparison to the old buses of Santiago, at least half the new ones have a low floor, and all have a blocking system that does not allow the bus to move before all doors are closed (Although the latter doesn't always work, since there have been many cases of people almost falling down the bus). Since 2003, all new buses in Santiago fulfill the emission norm Euro III.\n\nAfter the implementation of the new lines structure, the main bus lines will be operated with articulated (18 meters long) and normal buses, while the local services will be operated with normal buses and minibuses.\n\nMost of the low-floor buses for Transantiago were built by Volvo. Several operating companies of Transantiago bought 1,157 articulated buses B9SALF and 510 normal (12 meters long) buses B7RLE.\n\nThe articulated B9SALF Volvo bus has a capacity of approximately 160 passengers, four double doors, 100% low floor, a length of 18.5 meters and a width of 2.5 meters. The engine is on the left side between the first and second axles (i.e., behind the driver) and has 340 hp. (More technical information can be found in the technical specifications of the Volvo B9SALF.)\n\nThe Volvo B7RLE bus, with a capacity of approximately 80 passengers, has three double doors and low floor between the first and second doors. It has a length of 12 meters and a width of 2.5 meters. The engine is in the back of the vehicle and has 7,000 cm³. (Additional technical information can be found in the technical specifications of the Volvo B7RLE.)\n\nThere were several problems with the design and initial implementation of the plan. Bus owners' contracts offered no incentive to improve service, as they received a fixed payment no matter how many passengers they transport. The centralized system for controlling frequency of buses is not working (the GPS system is non-operational), which was a main point in the original design. Passenger fare evasion was high (30% or more). Many people considered the service to be poor and were not willing to pay for it, while others were taking advantage of the situation. Routes were poorly defined and took little account of commuter's habits. One clear failing of the system was that there were no bus stops by many hospitals.\n\nAlthough polls had shown the citizens of Santiago were overwhelmingly in favor of a new transport system, its implementation was heavily criticized for not meeting up to people's expectations. The system's first days in operation were chaotic at many of the bus stops, since there were not enough buses to cope with the demand. Additionally, many complained that the old bus routes were easier and faster, a claim confirmed to an extent in an investigation by \"El Mercurio\", which found that most of the new routes took more time than the ones in the older system. Opposition politicians on both sides of the political spectrum—from Communist Party Secretary General Guillermo Teillier to right-wing UDI deputy Iván Moreira—criticized the implementation of the new system, calling it \"improvised\" and \"unprofessional\".\n\nSupport in Santiago for President Michelle Bachelet's government fell from 55.2% in February to 42.7% in March, 2007, after the Transantiago began operating, according to the monthly Adimark polls. Political analysts attributed the fall solely to the Transantiago, saying that there is no other possible cause for the dramatic fall in support. A poll taken by Benchmark agency, requested by the opposition, showed that 47% did not approve of the implementation of Transantiago, 64% labeled the implementation as \"improvised\", and 53% disapproved of the way President Bachelet had handled the situation. Many people have also blamed former president Ricardo Lagos, because it was his government that was responsible for the system's design.\n\nOne consequence of Transantiago is that the Metro system, which was to be a backbone of the system, was overwhelmed with over six users per square meter. The increase in usage was reported as having gone from 1,300,000 to 2,200,000. Metro president Blas Tomic was quoted as saying: \"The capacity of metro has reached its limit\" and the Colegio Médico (Chilean Medical Association) recommended that the elderly and users with medical conditions avoid the system.\n\nThe government defended the plan as necessary for a better transport system, adding it will improve as people become more used to it, adding everything is being done to improve it.\n\nOne of the main lessons learned from Transantiago's planning and implementation is the risky consequences of introducing the operational service for the entire scheme at once, without a transition period between the old system and the new scheme, or what has been called as a \"Big Bang\" approach. Several other Latin American cities, such as Curitiba, Brazil (the pioneering system in the world), Bogotá, Colombia, and Montevideo, Uruguay, implemented similar BRT schemes, but gradually, phasing in the scheme in several stages, allowing to make adjustments and hastily fixing glitches, without any serious disruption to transit services.\n\nOnce the dust settled and the numerous problems were ironed out, most users agree that the new system is an improvement. \"El Mercurio\" newspaper released some stats comparing the system a day before it made its debut (February 10, 2007) and a year after (February 10, 2008):\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2235522", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2235522", "title": "Octahedral molecular geometry", "text": "Octahedral molecular geometry\n\nIn chemistry, octahedral molecular geometry describes the shape of compounds with six atoms or groups of atoms or ligands symmetrically arranged around a central atom, defining the vertices of an octahedron. The octahedron has eight faces, hence the prefix \"octa\". The octahedron is one of the Platonic solids, although octahedral molecules typically have an atom in their centre and no bonds between the ligand atoms. A perfect octahedron belongs to the point group O. Examples of octahedral compounds are sulfur hexafluoride SF and molybdenum hexacarbonyl Mo(CO). The term \"octahedral\" is used somewhat loosely by chemists, focusing on the geometry of the bonds to the central atom and not considering differences among the ligands themselves. For example, [Co(NH)], which is not octahedral in the mathematical sense due to the orientation of the N-H bonds, is referred to as octahedral.\n\nThe concept of octahedral coordination geometry was developed by Alfred Werner to explain the stoichiometries and isomerism in coordination compounds. His insight allowed chemists to rationalize the number of isomers of coordination compounds. Octahedral transition-metal complexes containing amines and simple anions are often referred to as Werner-type complexes.\nWhen two or more types of ligands (L, L, ...) are coordinated to an octahedral metal centre (M), the complex can exist as isomers. The naming system for these isomers depends upon the number and arrangement of different ligands.\n\nFor MLL, two isomers exist. These isomers of MLL are \"cis\", if the L ligands are mutually adjacent, and \"trans\", if the L groups are situated 180° to each other. It was the analysis of such complexes that led Alfred Werner to the 1913 Nobel Prize–winning postulation of octahedral complexes.\n\nFor MLL, two isomers are possible - a facial isomer (\"fac\") in which each set of three identical ligands occupies one face of the octahedron surrounding the metal atom, so that any two of these three ligands are mutually cis, and a meridional isomer (\"mer\") in which each set of three identical ligands occupies a plane passing through the metal atom.\n\nMore complicated complexes, with several different kinds of ligands or with bidentate ligands can also be chiral, with pairs of isomers which are non-superimposable mirror images or enantiomers of each other.\n\nFor MLLL, a total of six isomers are possible. \n\nThe number of possible isomers can reach 30 for an octahedral complex with six different ligands (in contrast, only two stereoisomers are possible for a tetrahedral complex with four different ligands). The following table lists all possible combinations for monodentate ligands:\n\nThus, all 15 diastereomers of MLLLLLL are chiral, whereas for MLLLLL, six diastereomers are chiral and three are not (the ones where L are \"trans\"). One can see that octahedral coordination allows much greater complexity than the tetrahedron that dominates organic chemistry. The tetrahedron MLLLL exists as a single enatiomeric pair. To generate two diastereomers in an organic compound, at least two carbon centers are required.\n\nThe term can also refer to octahedral influenced by the Jahn–Teller effect, which is a common phenomenon encountered in coordination chemistry. This reduces the symmetry of the molecule from O to D and is known as a tetragonal distortion.\n\nSome molecules, such as XeF or , have a lone pair that distorts the symmetry of the molecule from O to C. The specific geometry is known as a \"monocapped\" octahedron, since it is derived from the octahedron by placing the lone pair over the centre of one triangular face of the octahedron as a \"cap\" (and shifting the positions of the other six atoms to accommodate it). These both represent a divergence from the geometry predicted by VSEPR, which for AXE predicts a pentagonal pyramidal shape.\n\nPairs of octahedra can be fused in a way that preserves the octahedral coordination geometry by replacing terminal ligands with bridging ligands. Two motifs for fusing octahedra are common: edge-sharing and face-sharing. Edge- and face-shared bioctahedra have the formulas [ML(μ-L)] and ML(μ-L), respectively. Polymeric versions of the same linking pattern give the stoichiometries [ML(μ-L)] and [M(μ-L)], respectively.\n\nThe sharing of an edge or a face of an octahedron gives a structure called bioctahedral. Many metal pentahalide and pentaalkoxide compounds exist in solution and the solid with bioctahedral structures. One example is niobium pentachloride. Metal tetrahalides often exist as polymers with edge-sharing octahedra. Zirconium tetrachloride is an example. Compounds with face-sharing octahedral chains include MoBr, RuBr, and TlBr.\n\nFor compounds with the formula MX, the chief alternative to octahedral geometry is a trigonal prismatic geometry, which has symmetry D. In this geometry, the six ligands are also equivalent. There are also distorted trigonal prisms, with C symmetry; a prominent example is W(CH). The interconversion of \"Δ\"- and \"Λ\"-complexes, which is usually slow, is proposed to proceed via a trigonal prismatic intermediate, a process called the \"Bailar twist\". An alternative pathway for the racemization of these same complexes is the Ray–Dutt twist.\n\nFor a free ion, e.g. gaseous Ni or Mo, the energy of the d-orbitals are equal in energy; that is, they are \"degenerate\". In an octahedral complex, this degeneracy is lifted. The energy of the d and d, the so-called e set, which are aimed directly at the ligands are destabilized. On the other hand, the energy of the d, d, and d orbitals, the so-called t set, are stabilized. The labels t and e refer to irreducible representations, which describe the symmetry properties of these orbitals. The energy gap separating these two sets is the basis of crystal field theory and the more comprehensive ligand field theory. The loss of degeneracy upon the formation of an octahedral complex from a free ion is called crystal field splitting or ligand field splitting. The energy gap is labeled \"Δ\", which varies according to the number and nature of the ligands. If the symmetry of the complex is lower than octahedral, the e and t levels can split further. For example, the t and e sets split further in \"trans\"-MLL.\n\nLigand strength has the following order for these electron donors:\n\nSo called \"weak field ligands\" give rise to small \"Δ\" and absorb light at longer wavelengths.\n\nGiven that a virtually uncountable variety of octahedral complexes exist, it is not surprising that a wide variety of reactions have been described. These reactions can be classified as follows:\n\n\nMany reactions of octahedral transition metal complexes occur in water. When an anionic ligand replaces a coordinated water molecule the reaction is called an anation. The reverse reaction, water replacing an anionic ligand, is called aquation. For example, the [CoCl(NH)] slowly aquates to give [Co(NH)(HO)] in water, especially in the presence of acid or base. Addition of concentrated HCl converts the aquo complex back to the chloride, via an anation process.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2235536", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2235536", "title": "1985 (Anthony Burgess novel)", "text": "1985 (Anthony Burgess novel)\n\n1985 is a novel by English writer Anthony Burgess. Originally published in 1978, it was inspired by, and was intended as a tribute to, George Orwell's novel \"Nineteen Eighty-Four\".\n\n\"1985\" is in two parts. The first part, called \"1984\", is a series of essays and interviews (Burgess is the voice of the interviewer and the interviewee) discussing aspects of Orwell's book. The basic idea of dystopia is explicated, and term \"kakotopia\" is also brought up, and explored etymologically. The etymology of the word \"utopia\" is also deconstructed. Burgess treats Orwell as being somewhat bound by his times. Orwell is seen somewhat as a war-exhausted Brit fearing the Soviet threat along with the spectre of atomic war. Orwell is treated as handling these ideas to the exclusion of other phenomena will come to alter British society. Burgess fairly well explicates the distinction between Orwell's \"Ingsoc' and the more mundane \"English socialism\", as Burgess sees this actuality, in the Britain of his time.\n\nThe second part is a novella set in 1985, seven years in the future at the time of the novel's being written.\n\nRather than a sequel to Orwell's novel, Burgess uses the same concept. Based on his observation of British society and the world around him in 1978, he suggests how a possible 1985 might be if certain trends continue.\n\nThe main trend to which he is referring is the expanding power of trade unions. In the hypothetical 1985 envisioned in the book, the trade unions have become so powerful that they exert full control over society; unions exist for every imaginable occupation. Unions start strikes with little reason and a strike by one union usually turns into a general strike.\n\nAnother major theme of the novella is the rise of Islam as a major cultural and political force in Britain, due to large-scale immigration from the Middle East; London abounds with mosques and rich Arabs. Arab property ownership plays a major role in the story'd economic backdrop.\n\nThe protagonist is a school teacher, and somewhat of a proponent of Classicism. He is struggling within an education system which puts more stock in more directly practical approaches to study. He is also threatened by street toughs, from day to day. He gains status with them when he loses his professional status. They are outsiders, relative to the above-mentioned system. It is fashionable among them to embrace Classical studies, with a focus on, among other things, Greek and Latin linguistics.\n\nAt the novella's beginning, the protagonist, Bev Jones, confronts the death of his wife. She was in a hospital when it caught fire. As the firemen's union was striking, the hospital burned to the ground. Bev is left alone with his daughter Bessie, who is thirteen years old but sexually precocious and unable to comprehend the difference between reality and fantasy, due to a thalidomide-like drug taken by her pregnant mother.\n\nThe death of his wife engenders in Bev a deep-seated hostility towards the union system – her last words were, \"Don't let them get away with it\". This is, however, not the first time Bev has been opposed to it, for he had previously been a history lecturer who stepped down as his work was considered expendable by the union-based system which favoured education of practical value.\n\nEmployed as a confectioner, he goes to work one day despite his union being on strike. For working during a strike, his union membership is revoked, making him effectively unemployable. Knowing that he will soon lose his home, he takes Bessie to a state-run facility where she will be cared for with other girls like herself.\n\nBev then becomes something of a vagrant, travelling around London and falling in with a group of similarly unemployable dissenters. With these, he engages in petty theft from shops to survive. Apprehended during one such sortie, he is sentenced to re-education at a state institution, which is neither a prison nor a psychiatric hospital, but contains elements of both.\n\nAt the re-education centre, Bev is subjected to propaganda films and lectures, which have the aim of converting him into a useful member of society (a theme which Burgess also examines in \"A Clockwork Orange)\". He meets the powerful union official Pettigrew, who warns Bev that his day is over and that Syndicalism is the future of Britain. Despite this, Bev is unconverted and – having served his sentence – leaves as a free man.\n\nHaving been informed that Bessie will be ejected from the care facility because he refuses to recant his beliefs, he returns to London. In need of an income and a place to live, he joins a network called \"The Free Britons\", which aims to provide infrastructure and order during the increasing strike-related chaos sweeping Britain. Bev effectively sells his daughter as a wife to a wealthy sheik, who takes a fancy to her during a visit to the Al-Dorchester, reasoning that at least this way she will be safe and satisfied. Meanwhile, he discovers that \"The Free Britons\" is a front for an Islamic group aiming at the re-establishment of Britain as a Muslim state.\n\nBev, because of his education, is employed as the mouthpiece of the Free Britons and called upon to report on the events of the general strike. He is frustrated when his work is censored by the leader, a man known as Colonel Lawrence. The spreading strike action reaches fever pitch and becomes a general strike, reported to the reader mostly in diary form. Charles III takes command of the country as it grinds to a halt. A few months after the strike, Bev is arrested again and sentenced to life in a secure institution, which again is neither prison nor hospital. The only way out of this facility is to be retrieved by a family member.\n\nThere, he revives his teaching career by giving informal history lessons to other prisoners. As the years stretch on, his syllabus (which had started with Anglo Saxon England) passes through the Renaissance, the Enlightenment, the Industrial Revolution, and approaches the late 20th century.\n\nSnippets of news often circulate among the inmates, some of which suggest that the Muslim conversion of Britain is well-advanced (for example, it is claimed that inhabitants of the Isle of Man have recently discovered that a stimulant-depressant drug has been replacing alcohol in their beer for several years, in line with Muslim prohibitions). There is however no way in which the inmates can verify whether these news items are correct.\n\nBev finds it increasingly difficult to explain the continuity of history in terms of the present. Unable to do so, Bev suggests that they can start over again and work their way back to the present, after which his class spontaneously dismisses itself. Alone at night, Bev slips out of the dormitory in which he sleeps, creeps out into the grounds of the institution, and kills himself by deliberately touching the electric fence.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2235547", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2235547", "title": "Joseph Lusignan", "text": "Joseph Lusignan\n\nJoseph Prospere Lusignan (August 27, 1877 – December 23, 1967) was a politician in Manitoba, Canada. He served in the Legislative Assembly of Manitoba from 1927 to 1932, as a member of the Conservative Party.\n\nLusignan was born to Elli Lusignan and Milina Allaire, French Canadians living in Marlboro, Massachusetts, in the United States of America. He came to Canada in 1880, was educated at rural schools, and worked as a farmer. He served as a municipal councillor in Manitoba for fifteen years. In 1901, he married Louisa Foster. Lusignan lived in Somerset.\n\nHe was elected to the Manitoba legislature in the 1927 provincial election, defeating Progressive incumbent George Compton in the constituency of Manitou. The Conservatives formed the official opposition after this election, and Lusignan served for the next five years on the opposition benches. He was defeated by Liberal-Progressive candidate Frank McIntosh in the 1932 election.\n"}
{"id": "2235554", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2235554", "title": "PAE Kerkyra", "text": "PAE Kerkyra\n\nAOK PAE Kerkyra (), is a Greek professional football club based in Corfu, Greece. The club plays in the Super League 2, the second tier of the Greek football league system, following changes to the league structure in 2019. It plays its home matches at Kerkyra Stadium. The club was founded in 2013 following a merger between AO Kerkyra and AO Kassiopi.\n\nAthlitikos Omilos Kerkyra (Athletic Club of Kerkyra), or AO Kerkyra, was founded in 1969. For many years the club played in the local championship of Corfu. But in the season 1988–89 it played in Gamma Ethniki. In 2002 the club was promoted to Beta Ethniki and in the season 2004–05 it played in A Ethniki (Super League) for the first time in history. The club played 5 times totally in A Ethniki, the seasons 2005, 2007, 2011, 2012 and 2013.\n\nAthlitikos Omilos Kassiopi (Athletic Club of Kassiopi), or AO Kassiopi, was the football club of the village Kassiopi in north-east Corfu. The club was founded in 1984 and in 2012, it became champion of Delta Ethniki Group 5 and was promoted to Football League 2 for the first time in history. The next season it was finished in the third place of the championship of football (League 2 2012–13) and promoted to Football League (second division).\n\nIn the same season (2012–13) Kerkyra was relegated from Super League to Football League. On account of a lot of debts, Kerkyra couldn't play in the professional league of Football League. So the owners of the historical club of Corfu agreed with the owners of Kassiopi for the merge of two clubs in order to Kerkyra continue its presence in professional leagues without debts. The intention was the new club to be named PAE Kerkyra but the court approved of the name PAE AOK Kerkyra.\n\nKerkyra was dismissed by Super League and automatically got relegated to Football League as they were accused and proved to commit fake transfer of shares. Kerkyra was given the last position on the league table. Next season Kerkyra got 2nd place and gained promotion into Super League along with the 1st place team AEL.\n\nThe emblem of the club is similar with the seal of the flag of the municipality of Corfu, an ancient Greek ship, a symbol of the island. That ancient Greek ship is the quadriceps trireme and symbolizes the power of the Phaeacians navy in antiquity.\n\nTheir colours are also the same; black and white.\n\nKerkyra's stadium was built in 1961. It is located in Garitsa, in the city of Corfu. The stadium is on the southern side of the city, next to the entrance to the airport.\nThe stadium is part of Corfu's National Athletic Center (EAC). It has two stands, one large west and one smaller east, built in 1973. Chrysopatas was first placed in 1983. Since then, for 20 years, a few have changed.\nIn 2003, headlamps were installed, while in 2005 all platforms were covered with plastic seats. The construction of the shelter over the big stand was made in 2007.\nThe erection of an extra metallic pit on the northern horseshoe is a work that has been carcassing for many years. In 2010, a 200 seat slot was delivered as a temporary solution, but it is basically not used (no tickets are issued for it). The capacity of the new petal is projected to be 1,230 seats, though when completed.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2235568", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2235568", "title": "Hollywood (Madonna song)", "text": "Hollywood (Madonna song)\n\n\"Hollywood\" is a song recorded by American singer Madonna. The song was written and produced by Madonna and Mirwais Ahmadzaï for her ninth studio album, \"American Life\" (2003). On July 14, 2003, it was released as the third single from the album by Maverick Records. It later appeared on the greatest hits album, \"Celebration\" (2009). \"Hollywood\" is a folk rock song that lyrically discusses American culture and greed, focusing on Hollywood, California, as a place of pop stars and illusory dreams. Madonna's vocals in the song was noted as that of a little-girl's; during the song she also raps, with the repeated phrase \"Push the button\". Ahmadzaï did the main programming for the track and kept the track as simple as possible, without using too many instruments.\n\nSeveral remixes of \"Hollywood\", done by DJs such as Jacques Lu Cont, The Micronauts, Paul Oakenfold, Deepsky and Victor Calderone, were included on physical releases of the single around the world. Music critics applauded the song's catchiness but criticized its lyrics. The song topped \"Billboard\"'s Hot Dance Club Songs and Hot Dance Singles Sales component charts. The debut of the \"Hollywood\" remixes on the Dance Singles Sales chart gave Madonna her longest stretch of chart-topping titles on this chart, \"Hollywood\" being her sixth in a row. It also reached the top ten in Canada, Finland, Italy, Romania and number two in the United Kingdom on the commercial charts.\n\nAn accompanying music video, directed by Jean-Baptiste Mondino, portrays Madonna highlighting the highs and lows of Hollywood. After the video was released, French photographer Guy Bourdin's son filed a federal lawsuit that accused Madonna of ripping off the work of his father, showing sequences of the video to be similar to his father's photographs taken in the 1980s. \"Hollywood\" was first performed in an acoustic version along with \"American Life\" and \"Mother and Father\" on a promotional tour for the album. In August 2003, Madonna opened the MTV Video Music Awards performing a medley of \"Like a Virgin\" and \"Hollywood\" with Britney Spears, Christina Aguilera and Missy Elliott. During the performance, Madonna kissed Spears and Aguilera on the lips, generating strong reactions from the media. \"Hollywood\" was later used as a dancers' interlude on the 2004 Re-Invention World Tour.\n\nWhen Madonna started working on her ninth studio album, the cultural mood of America was bleak and that of paranoia after the September 11 attacks. There was discontent and fear all around as the terrorism and hatred took people by surprise, as they started questioning the feasibility of the American Dream. While developing the songs for \"American Life\" with producer Mirwais Ahmadzaï, Madonna interrogated and pondered upon those values. The confusion, disorientation and the anger they created seeped into the making of each and every song, including \"Hollywood\". She later spoke about Ahmadzaï's downbeat existentialism and the long discussions they had about this, and society's obsession with fame and fortune. In an interview with \"Q\", in April 2003, she described the song as the allure of the beautiful life in Hollywood. The singer expressed her opinion about fame and celebrity culture, and how people think it to be a \"wonderful life\" but in reality is a \"very powerful illusion\".\n\nIn the VH1 special \"Madonna Speaks\", the artist further clarified that the theme behind \"Hollywood\", as well as \"American Life\" And \"I'm So Stupid\" from the album, was about her \"wanting to shout from the rooftops that we have all been living in a dream. I have been living in a dream — and you're all living in a dream and we have to wake up to reality.\" Madonna's first single from \"American Life\"—the title track—became the lowest charting first single from a Madonna album since her debut, reaching a peak of number 37 on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100. Warner Bros. Records hastily wanted to save the album from dropping off the charts, and decided to release \"Hollywood\", believing the song to have commercial success potential.\n\n\"Hollywood\" was produced by Madonna, along with Ahmadzaï. The recording sessions for \"American Life\" started in late 2001, then was put on hold as Madonna filmed \"Swept Away\" in Malta and starred in the West End play \"Up for Grabs\". She returned to the Olympic Recording Studios in late 2002 and finished off the sessions. Initially, Madonna was not satisfied with the original version of \"Hollywood\" recorded, so she developed an alternate melody for it. The instruments used on \"Hollywood\" are similar to the ones used on the other songs from \"American Life\". The mixing for the track was done by Mark \"Spike\" Stent at the Westlake Recording Studios at West Hollywood, California, while Tim Young did the mastering of the song at Metropolis Studios in London. Ahmadzaï played the guitars, and also did the necessary programming. He used a drum kit and percussion from an E-mu Emulator and also added extra drum sounds to give the song an old, disco vibe. Wanting to have a loud bass synth sound, Ahmadzaï used a Nord Lead synthesizer with lot of filtering manipulations. But he faced problems with it, so he used a Yamaha O2R mixer. He did not want \"Hollywood\" to sound like the music being played at the nightclubs, so he recorded Madonna's vocals with heavy compression in her headphones. Two machines were used for the vocal editing in \"Hollywood\". Madonna preferred the Antares Auto-Tune plug in, while Ahmadzaï chose an AMS pitch shifter. Madonna wanted Auto-Tune because she wanted \"Hollywood\" to have a more dance-like feel to it, although Ahmadzaï was against it. Describing the recording of the vocals, Ahmadzaï said:\n\n\"We used mainly analog compressors on the vocals, sometimes very cheap or mid-budget stuff, recorded with a Sony G800 tube mic, a Neve 8081 preamp and an LA-2A compressor/limiter. But everything is about the setting ... We experiment a lot with vocal sounds. For example, the pitch-down vocal at the end was initially much longer. The mix of this one was very hard — like almost all tracks — because there was so much stuff going on. This is why maybe the final version is so simple.\"\n\n\"Hollywood\" is a \"bouncy folk-rock tune\", as noted by James Hannaham of \"Spin\", while Ken Micallef of \"Electronic Musician\" described it as \"a clubby disco beat underpins a mammoth bass line with freaky percussion, queasy arcing tones and madly treated vocals.\" It also contains house beats with elements of space age and retro music, as well as synthpop. Following the sound of twittering birds, the song opens with a four-chord sequence played on a Martin D-28 acoustic guitar; the riff was compared to the music of the Red Hot Chili Peppers by Rikky Rooksby, author of \"The Complete Guide to the Music of Madonna\". It is followed by the sound of drums and synthesizers until after a minute, when the arrangement is pulled out, leaving just Madonna's vocals and the acoustic guitar accompaniment. Madonna's voice glides over pop beats throughout the song. During the final sequence, Madonna's singing is slowly morphed lower in pitch into a distorted, robotic voice and she raps, with the repeated phrase \"Push the button\". According to the sheet music published at Sheetmusicplus.com, \"Hollywood\" is written in common time with a moderately fast tempo of 126 beats per minute. It is composed in the key of C major with Madonna's voice spanning from B to C. An abrupt shift of key takes place at about three minutes into the song, from B minor to C minor, which according to Rooksby was utilized to give the song's closing choruses a different treatment. The song follows a basic sequence of Bm–D–A–G–Em as its chord progression.\n\nLyrically, it discusses American culture and greed, focusing on Hollywood as a place of pop stars and illusory dreams. The bridge opens with Madonna saying, \"Music stations always play the same songs/I'm bored with the concept of right and wrong\". Ben Shapiro noted the verse \"seems to be Madonna's credo. Her purposeful degradation of morality has led to monumental success for her-and created a monumentally bad influence for her teenage fans.\" Further, Madonna questions the Hollywood experience, singing, \"How could it hurt you when it looked so good?\". Alexis Petridis of \"The Guardian\" noted Madonna's vocals in the song are \"high-pitched [to sound like a] little-girl\", with the intention of \"[underlying] the notion of innocence lost\".\n\nSeveral remixes of \"Hollywood\", done by DJs such as Jacques Lu Cont, The Micronauts, Paul Oakenfold, Deepsky and Victor Calderone, were included on physical releases of the single around the world. In August 2003, the song was remixed with \"Into the Groove\" and performed with Missy Elliott under the title \"Into the Hollywood Groove\" as part of a promotional campaign for clothing retailer, GAP. Copies of the promotional CD were given to customers and were not available for individual purchase. An extended version, \"The Passengerz Mix\", was also included on the remix album \"Remixed & Revisited\" (2003). A promotional video for the remix was also shot. Rob Walker of \"Slate\" considered the video \"interesting because Madonna has always been praised as much for her ability to market herself as for her actual talent as a singer and performer\". However, he noted that \"[the singer] can't even get an actual commercial right. Maybe Madonna really is over.\" A parody of the commercial which satirized at Madonna's age was featured on the ninth season of \"MADtv\" & the 2003 \"French & Saunders\" Christmas special.\n\n\"Hollywood\" was also remixed by American DJ duo Blow-Up. The remix was set to be included on Madonna's second remix album planned for 2004; however, it remained unreleased. A \"Billboard\" review by Michael Paoletta considered it a \"funky dark remix\". An unofficial remix was commissioned to DJ Junior Vasquez for designer Donatella Versace's spring/summer 2004 menswear show in Milan, in spite of the singer having a falling out with Vasquez, following the DJ releasing an unauthorized single titled \"If Madonna Calls\". The original version that Vasquez played at nightclubs contained an actual phone message from Madonna left on Vasquez's answering machine. Madonna's publicist Liz Rosenberg confirmed that this did not mean the singer would collaborate with Vasquez in the future since the commissioning of the remix was just a \"personal favor\" for Versace.\n\n\"Hollywood\" received mixed reviews from music critics. Michael Paoletta from \"Billboard\" described the song as \"punky\" and compared it to \"Ray of Light\" (1998). Dimitri Ebrlich of \"Vibe\" magazine gave a positive review for the song, describing it as \"disarmingly self-deprecatory as it reflects on people's desperate attempts to make it in America's glamor industry\", writing that it was a perfect fit for \"American Life\". Jude Adam of \"Third Way\" magazine gave the song a positive review, considering it as \"quirky, sunny, and sweet in perfect measures.\" Stephen Thompson of \"The A.V. Club\" considered the song as \"actually catchy\". Alexis Petridis of \"The Guardian\" noted that Madonna divulges in the song that not everyone who wants to make it in the movies succeeds. Jessica Winter from \"The Village Voice\" commented that in the song, \"Madonna channels a generic teen-pop chanteuse\". Dennis Ferrera from \"Out\", while interviewing Madonna for her 2005 album \"Confessions on a Dance Floor\", described the song as a \"killer single\". Another positive review by J. J. Evans from \"Naperville Sun\" described \"Hollywood\" as a track which best exemplifies Madonna's \"silly way of writing\" but felt that it worked in this case. Chris Heath from Yahoo! Music commented that \"'Hollywood' breaks free of its inferior siblings to strike out as a sexy sliver of dance pop that's as good as anything on \"Music\"\". Chuck Arnold from \"Entertainment Weekly\" found it ironic that Madonna was singing about Hollywood, given all her failed attempts at a successful movie career. Nonetheless, he concluded that \"with its sweet guitar picking, this \"American Life\" single shines its light wherever you are\".\n\nIan Youngs of BBC News noted that the song was another diatribe about fame and how difficult it is being in the public eye. He further added that it \"ranks among the disappointments\" on the album saying it feels lacklustre and commented about the \"embarrassing rap\". Ed Howard from Stylus Magazine commented that barring Madonna's rapping, \"Hollywood\" is at least engaging. Sal Cinquemani of Slant Magazine thought \"following up 'American Life' with 'Hollywood' was nearly as ballsy\" due to its lyrical content. Edna Gundersen of \"USA Today\" noted that the song \"attest[s] to her undiminished skills as a shrewd pop composer\". Michael Hubbard of musicOMH commented that everything rhymes with \"Hollywood\", and after commented the song would be better without these lazy lyrics, adding \"[The song] has the name Madonna on it so it will sell, but it's hardly vintage stuff. Time for some musical reinvention to go with the incessant changes of image.\" In another review, Chuck Taylor from \"Billboard\" expressed his disappointment with the song. He explained that \"Hollywood\" is \"a far cry from the ingenious fortitude displayed on so many previous singles of [Madonna's] two decades of career\". He panned Ahmadzaï's limited electronic production and Madonna's excessive usage of acoustic guitar on the track, along with \"whiney, preachy lyrics\". Writing for \"The Sydney Morning Herald\", Bernard Zuel called Ahmadzaï a \"one-trick pony\" for his production, but felt he pulled it off \"on the groove-rich 'Hollywood'\". Ben Wener from \"The Beaver County Times\" condemned the track as a \"knowingly hypocritical attack on Hollywood\". Writing for \"The Guardian\", Jude Rogers praised its \"fantastic Roland bassline and reflective sun-dappled guitar\", placing the song at number 47 on her ranking of Madonna's singles, in honor of her 60th birthday.\n\n\"Hollywood\" failed to enter the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 in the United States, or the Bubbling Under Hot 100 Singles chart. It was the first time since \"Burning Up\" (1983) that a Madonna single did not reach the Hot 100. However, it peaked at number one on both \"Billboard\"'s Hot Dance Club Play and Hot Dance Singles Sales component charts. The debut of the \"Hollywood\" remixes atop the Dance Singles Sales chart gave Madonna her longest stretch of chart-topping titles on this chart, \"Hollywood\" being her sixth in a row. This stretch began with \"Music\" in 2000, followed by \"Don't Tell Me\", \"What It Feels Like for a Girl\", \"Die Another Day\" and \"American Life\". \"Hollywood\" was Madonna's 22nd number-one on the Dance Singles Sales chart, the most for any artist. On the \"Billboard\" Hot Singles Sales chart, the song debuted at number four, but did not accumulate enough points to appear on the Hot 100. At the 2003 \"Billboard\" Year-end recap, Madonna was the number two Dance Club Play artist and the top Dance Singles artist. \"Hollywood\" was ranked at numbers 19, seven, and 45 on the Hot Dance Club Play, Hot Dance Singles Sales and Hot Singles Sales charts respectively. Other than the dance charts, \"Hollywood\" also reached a peak of number 35 on the Adult Pop Songs. In Canada, the song peaked at number five on Canadian Singles Chart.\n\nOn July 19, 2003, \"Hollywood\" debuted at its peak of number two in the UK Singles Chart, being kept from the top spot by \"Crazy in Love\" by Beyoncé. The song was present for a total of seven weeks on the chart, and as of August 2008, has sold 59,633 copies according to the Official Charts Company. In Australia, \"Hollywood\" debuted on the chart at number 16, before falling out to number 37 the next week. On April 27, 2003, \"Hollywood\" debuted at number 55 on the Austrian Singles Chart, peaking at number 34 after four weeks. The song achieved moderate chart positions in both the Flemish and Wallonian territories in Belgium, peaking at numbers 14 and 32, respectively. Making its debut at its peak position of number 22, \"Hollywood\" charted for a total of 23 weeks in France during 2003. Between 2008 and 2009, the song charted for five weeks. On the Dutch Singles Chart, the song made its debut at number 20, spending a total of six weeks in the chart. On April 24, 2003, \"American Life\" debuted at number 20 on the Swedish Singles Chart. Similarly in Switzerland, the song debuted at number 15 on the Swiss Singles Chart, spending 13 weeks on the chart.\n\nThe music video for \"Hollywood\" was filmed at Universal Studios in Universal City, California and directed by Jean-Baptiste Mondino, who previously worked with Madonna on her videos for \"Open Your Heart\" (1986), \"Justify My Love\" (1990), \"Human Nature\" (1995), \"Love Don't Live Here Anymore\" (1996), and \"Don't Tell Me\" (2000). In the United States, it premiered on June 23, 2003, on VH1. Madonna had long been a fan of the work of French fashion photographer Guy Bourdin since about a decade ago, commenting on his photographs as \"They're so sick and interesting. These girls, you have to see the look on their faces — they're really bizarre.\" Arianne Phillips created the costumes for the video and she described Madonna's looks as an homage to old Hollywood glamour, while trying to be literal as well as conceptual. She paid tributes to stars like Ginger Rogers, Jean Harlow and Mae West. According to Mondino's own words, the concept of the video was:\n\n\"Some kind of artifice that Hollywood can provide, that is so wide and has a graphic story-line about it as well as some humor about it, and to show the beauty, the scariness, the sexiness and the loneliness that one's success can be, 'cause everybody's dreaming about Hollywood, no matter what. The expectation can be very dangerous, and maybe for somebody like Madonna, who might be at a point, to realize that to be on the top is maybe not that important. That's what I feel about the video.\"\n\nThe music video features Madonna in different styles and fashions. It also includes her dripping in twenty million dollars worth of vintage jewels and gowns in several transformations, including an original 25 carat ring and bracelet that was worn by West in the 1933 film, \"She Done Him Wrong\". A real doctor (Dr. David Kish) was hired by Madonna to administer the fake shots, since she wanted to make the scenes appear real. The first day of shooting took place on June 2, 2003, and the scenes shot included the wall-of-mirrors, the massage, the botox injection and the ballet dancing sequences. The next day started with the French maid, the motel TV, the telephone conversation and the glamour shot scenes. Henry Keazor, one of the authors of \"Rewind, Play, Fast Forward: The Past, Present and Future of the Music Video\", noted that Madonna exposed herself during the interventions portrayed in the video, by playing with the rumors and the stereotypes surrounding her.\n\nAfter the release of the music video for \"Hollywood\", Samuel Bourdin, the son of Guy Bourdin, filed a federal lawsuit that accused Madonna of ripping off the work of his father. Bourdin said they are \"strikingly similar\" to pictures taken by his father from the 1950s to 1980s decades and published in French \"Vogue\" magazine. He accused Madonna of copyright infringement over at least eleven of Bourdin's works, including one of Madonna with her legs spread on top of a TV set. \"It's one thing to draw inspiration; it's quite another to simply plagiarize the heart and soul of my father's work\", Bourdin said at the time. Included in Bourdin's federal complaint were side-by-side comparisons of his father's work with images with stills from the \"Hollywood\" video. According to Dustin Robertson, editor of the \"Hollywood\" video, the sequences featuring Madonna in a red dress staring into a mirror are the ones which were pointed by Bourdin's estate in the lawsuit. The lawsuit named Madonna, Warner Bros. Records, and Mondino as defendants. The details presented in the lawsuit read as: \"Factors such as composition, background, wardrobe, lighting, narrative, camera angle, decor, and objects depicted are strikingly similar ... There are very few scenes or sequences in the 'Hollywood' video that are not directly derived from the Bourdin works.\" Details of the financial settlement are confidential, and Madonna acknowledged no wrongdoing in her liberal appropriation of the images. Bourdin's lawyer, John Koegel, said the parties reached a \"very, very successful settlement\", adding that terms of the deal did not allow him to discuss exact dollar amounts. In 2011, news website Independent Online disclosed the settled amount by Madonna to be $600,000. In 2009, the video was included on Madonna's compilation, \"\".\n\nTo start marketing \"American Life\", Madonna performed the American Life Promo Tour. A performance on Tower's Fourth Street in Manhattan was presented to around 400 people and featured acoustic performances of \"American Life\", \"Mother and Father\", and \"Hollywood\". On August 27, 2003, Madonna opened the MTV Video Music Awards performing a medley of \"Like a Virgin\" and \"Hollywood\" with Britney Spears, Christina Aguilera, and Missy Elliott. Spears appeared on stage atop of a giant wedding cake, wearing a wedding gown and veil; she sang the first few lines of \"Like a Virgin\" before Aguilera appeared from behind the cake and joined her. Madonna then emerged from the cake wearing a black coat and hat and started singing \"Hollywood\" before proceeding to kiss Spears and Aguilera on the lips. Missy Elliott came out from a wedding chapel to sing her song \"Work It\" halfway through the performance. The whole performance was a tribute to Madonna and an homage to her performance of \"Like a Virgin\" at the awards' inaugural show in 1984.\n\nThe kiss generated strong reaction from the media and the celebrities alike. Nekesa Mumbi Moody from Associated Press deduced \"Twenty years after the first MTV Video Music Awards, and not much has changed — Madonna still makes jaws drop and cheeks blush.\" Brian Hiatt from \"Entertainment Weekly\" felt that \"The close-up of [Madonna] locking lips with the 21-year-old Spears was an indelible MTV moment — sexy, vaguely transgressive, and as meaningless as it was entertaining.\" Elysa Gardner from \"USA Today\" explained that the performance \"offered a poignant reminder of MTV's role in defining a youth culture that has become something of a tease — winking at convention without offering any fresh alternatives.\" When asked about it, Madonna revealed, \"I am kissing [Britney] and passing my energy on to her. Like kind of a mythological fairytale.\" The performance was listed by \"Blender\" magazine as one of the twenty-five sexiest music moments on television history. MTV listed the performance as the number-one opening moment in the history of the MTV Video Music Awards. In Madonna's 2004 Re-Invention World Tour, a remix interlude of \"Hollywood\" featured a breakdancer, a firedancer, a bellydancer, a tapdancer, and a skateboarder. The screens displayed animations of tarot cards. The performance was included in the \"I'm Going to Tell You a Secret\" live album and documentary. On the same tour, the performance of \"Into the Groove\" contained samples from the remix \"Into the Hollywood Groove\".\n\n\nCredits for \"Hollywood\" are adapted from \"American Life\" liner notes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2235569", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2235569", "title": "Grand Slam of Grass", "text": "Grand Slam of Grass\n\nThe Grand Slam of Grass is a series of American Thoroughbred horse races made up of four turf events for three-year-old horses. \n\nThe series offers a $5 million bonus for any horse who wins all four races. Currently sponsored by Jacobs Investments, the series consists of:\n\n\nPaddy O'Prado has come the closest to winning the Grand Slam. In 2010, he won the Colonial Turf Cup, Virginia Derby, and Secretariat, but did not run in the Breeders' Cup Turf.\n\n"}
{"id": "2235570", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2235570", "title": "U.S. Highway 66 Association", "text": "U.S. Highway 66 Association\n\nThe U.S. Highway 66 Association was organized in Tulsa, Oklahoma in 1927. Its purpose was to get U.S. Highway 66 paved from end to end and to promote tourism on the highway.\n\nThe organization was similar to many that existed before the creation of federal highways in 1926, including those that promoted the Lincoln Highway and the National Old Trails Highway.\n\nJohn T. Woodruff of Springfield, Missouri was elected the first president. The association began to advertise the highway in magazines, on billboards, and brochures. The continued push to completely pave the highway and complete an unfinished section (Watson Road in St. Louis, Missouri) paid off, the road was fully paved and completed in 1938, including a cut-off across New Mexico, bypassing a loop through Santa Fe.\n\nThe U.S. Highway 66 Association curtailed activities when World War II rationing of rubber and fuel disrupted leisure travel. In 1947, Jack and Gladys Cutberth revived the organization in Clinton, Oklahoma to promote \"the shortest, fastest year-round best across the scenic West\" with \"800 miles of 4-lane highway\".\n\nIn 1955, construction began on the new Interstate Highway System. As these new interstates began to replace longer and longer sections of the old highway, the group in 1970 changed its name to the Main Street of America Association and continued to stand as a voice for the older highway. The association published its last brochure in 1974; the brochure's cover referenced the new interstate highways that would lead to its demise.\n\nIn 1976, the association disbanded as U.S. Route 66 was now largely concurrent with I-55, I-44, I-40, I-15, and I-10. In 1984, the last section through Williams, Arizona was bypassed and in 1985 Route 66 was formally decommissioned.\n\nThe former association is not officially connected with the various Route 66 Associations which currently exist in all eight US Route 66 states to preserve and promote the historic highway; the first of these was established in 1987 by Angel Delgadillo and fifteen businesspeople in Seligman, Arizona to obtain \"Historic Route 66\" signage\" on the old highway.\n"}
{"id": "2235578", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2235578", "title": "Ole Christian Kvarme", "text": "Ole Christian Kvarme\n\nOle Christian Mælen Kvarme (born November 11, 1948 in Molde) is a Norwegian bishop of the Church of Norway. He was bishop of Oslo in the Lutheran Church of Norway from 2005 and 2017. As Bishop of Oslo, Kvarme was the personal prelate of the Norwegian Royal Family.\n\nHe graduated from the MF Norwegian School of Theology in 1974, and studied further in Göttingen and Jerusalem. He was ordained to priest for mission service abroad in Bodø in 1975.\n\nKvarme worked as a research assistant at the MF Norwegian School of Theology 1972 to 1974, as a Bible translator for the Norwegian Bible Society from 1973, as a military chaplain in 1975, as a missionary priest for \"Den Norske Israelsmisjon\" in Haifa 1976 to 1981. He was the executive secretary of the Norwegian Bible Society in Israel and of the Norwegian Bible Society on the West Bank from 1976 to 1981. From 1982 to 1986 he led the Caspari Center for Biblical and Jewish Studies, and from 1986 to 1996 he was secretary general of the Norwegian Bible Society.\n\nHe was Dean in Oslo Cathedral from 1996 to 1998 and was appointed Bishop of Borg in 1998. In 2005, he was appointed Bishop of Oslo. His appointment as Bishop of Oslo by the second cabinet Bondevik was criticized by non-Christians and liberal Christians because he is loyal to the decision of the highest body of the Church of Norway not to allow practicing homosexuals as priests.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2235579", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2235579", "title": "Route 66 Association", "text": "Route 66 Association\n\nRoute 66 Association is the generic name of the non-profit associations established for preservation, restoration and promotion of the historic U.S. Route 66. They exist in all 8 Route 66 states: Illinois, Missouri, Kansas, Oklahoma, Texas, New Mexico, Arizona and California.\n\nThe first Route 66 Association was established on U.S. Route 66 in Arizona by Seligman businessperson Angel Delgadillo. An initial meeting of 15 people on February 18, 1987 in Seligman led to efforts which yielded a state-issued \"Historic Route 66\" designation for a portion of highway 66 between Kingman and Seligman later that year. By 1990, similar organisations had been established in all eight US route 66 states.\n\nThe California Historic Route 66 Association is the youngest of the 8, being established in December 1990 and dedicated to the U.S. Route 66 in California. It publishes a quarterly newsletter \"Roadsigns\", which includes various news and history related to Route 66 in California, among other things. It published the \"Guide to Historic Route 66 in California\", a travel guide with maps, directions, mileage, photos, and other travel information.\n\nThe Historic Route 66 Association of Arizona was established in February 1987 and dedicated to the U.S. Route 66 in Arizona. The Arizona association was instrumental in making the Seligman-Kingman stretch of Route 66 to be officially recognized as \"Historic Route 66\" later that year, a designation subsequently extended to the whole Route 66 in Arizona.\n\nSeligman, Arizona businessperson Angel Delgadillo was a key early advocate both of the creation of this Route 66 association and of the introduction of the \"Historic Route 66\" designation and signage.\n\nThe New Mexico Route 66 Association is dedicated to the education, promotion and preservation of Historic Route 66 in New Mexico.\n\nThe Texas Old Route 66 Association, dedicated to the U.S. Route 66 in Texas, was incorporated in 1991. It publishes the \"Texas Route 66 Newsletter\" quarterly and maintains the Texas Route 66 Exhibit, the first Route 66 museum on the route, among other activities.\n\nThe Oklahoma Route 66 Association, organized in 1989, is dedicated to the U.S. Route 66 in Oklahoma. It publishes a quarterly newsletter and the \"Official Oklahoma Route 66 Association Trip Guide\".\n\nThe Kansas Historic Route 66 Association, founded in 1990, is dedicated to promoting, protecting, and preserving the 13.2 mile stretch of U.S. Route 66 in Kansas.\n\nThe Route 66 Association of Missouri was organized in 1989 (a 501(c)(3) non-profit corporation since January 13, 1990) is dedicated to the U.S. Route 66 in Missouri. The association publishes the quarterly newsletter, \"Show Me Route 66\", which describes various projects associated with Route 66.\n\nThe Route 66 Association of Illinois is dedicated to the U.S. Route 66 in Illinois. Initiated in March 1989, it was incorporated in October 1989 in Dwight, Illinois.\n\nFounded 1995, the National Historic Route 66 Federation publishes the \"Route 66 Dining & Lodging Guide\" (since 1999, currently including over 500 mostly vintage businesses) and a 200-page \"EZ66 GUIDE For Travelers\" (since 2005). With a stated objective of bringing Route 66 historians, authors, artists, photographers, business people and enthusiasts with citizens within U.S. Route 66 host communities, the federation presents an annual “John Steinbeck Award” to an individual who had contributed significantly to the preservation of Route 66 and organises an “Adopt-A-Hundred” programme in which adopters watch 100-mile segments for possible preservation problems along the route such as bridges, businesses or stretches of roadbed being closed. These same adopters were to review the dining and lodging businesses while they travelled.\n\nThe National Historic Route 66 Federation is working with the National Route 66 Corridor Preservation Program to issue $10 million in matching fund grants under the National Route 66 Preservation Bill (1999) to individuals, corporations and communities preserving or restoring historic properties along the historic route.\n"}
{"id": "2235580", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2235580", "title": "Western Theological Seminary", "text": "Western Theological Seminary\n\nThe Western Theological Seminary of the Reformed Church in America (Western Theological Seminary or WTS) is a seminary of the Reformed Church in America and located in Holland, Michigan. Established in 1866, it is one of two seminaries operated by the Reformed Church in America, a mainline Reformed Protestant denomination in Canada and the United States that follows the theological tradition and Christian practice of John Calvin.\n\nThe seminary offers professional and graduate degree programs for candidates for ministry, and to those pursuing careers in academia or non-theological fields. It was established to fill a need for theological education on the (then) western frontier of the Reformed Church in America. In its theological identity, Western Theological Seminary is evangelical, ecumenical and Reformed. Western Theological Seminary prepares students for ministry often involving ordination (many in the Reformed Church in America), as well as for further graduate study, chaplaincy, missions, youth ministry, social service ministry, etc. Although WTS is affiliated with the Reformed Church in America, it is ecumenical in scope and it educates students from other denominations, including: the Christian Reformed Church, the United Church of Christ, the Evangelical Lutheran Church in America, and the Presbyterian Church (USA).\n\nIn 1866, seven students graduating from Hope College felt called to full-time Christian ministry following graduation. They wanted to pursue their theological training in West Michigan, so they made a petition to the General Synod of the Reformed Church to allow for theological training through the Hope College Religion Department. Permission was granted and Western Theological Seminary was established.\n\nThe seminary is accredited by the Association of Theological Schools in the United States and Canada (ATS). It offers the Master of Divinity, Master of Theology, and Doctor of Ministry degrees; it also offers graduate certificates.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2235585", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2235585", "title": "Hindu wedding", "text": "Hindu wedding\n\nA Hindu wedding is \"Vivaha\" (Sanskrit: विवाह) and the wedding ceremony is called \"Vivaah Sanskar\" in North India and \"Kalyanam\" (generally) in Tamil Nadu. The wedding ceremonies are very colourful, and celebrations may extend for several days. The bride's and groom's home—entrance, doors, wall, floor, roof—are sometimes decorated with colors, balloons, and other decorations.\n\nThe rituals and processes of a Hindu wedding vary widely. Nevertheless, the Hindu wedding ceremony at its core is essentially a Vedic \"yajna\" ritual and three key rituals are almost universal: \"Kanyadaan\", \"Panigrahana\", and \"Saptapadi\"—which are respectively, giving away of his daughter by the father, voluntarily holding hands near the fire to signify union, and taking seven ‘steps before fire’. (Each ‘step’ is a complete circuit of the fire.)\n\nAt each step, promises are made by (in the long-form—see below) each to the other. The primary witness of a Hindu marriage is the fire-deity (or the Sacred Fire) \"Agni\", in the presence of family and friends. The ceremony is traditionally conducted entirely or at least partially in Sanskrit, considered by Hindus as the language of holy ceremonies. The local language of the bride and groom may also be used. The rituals are prescribed in the \"Gruhya sutra\" composed by various \"rishis\" such as \"Baudhayana\" and \"Ashvalayana\". \n\nThe pre-wedding and post-wedding rituals and celebrations vary by region, preference and the resources of the groom, bride and their families. They can range from one day to multi-day events. Pre-wedding ceremonies include engagement, which involves \"vagdana\" (betrothal) and \"Lagna-patra\" (written declaration), and the arrival of the groom's party at the bride's residence, often as a formal procession with dancing and music. The post-wedding ceremonies may include \"Abhishek\", \"Anna Prashashan\", \"Aashirvadah\", and \"Grihapravesa\" – the welcoming of the bride to her new home. The wedding marks the start of the \"Grihastha\" (householder) stage of life for the new couple.\n\nIn India, by law and tradition, no Hindu marriage is binding or complete unless the ritual of seven steps and vows in presence of fire (\"Saptapadi\") is completed by the bride and the groom together. This requirement is under debate, given that several Hindu communities (such as the Nairs of Kerala or Bunts of Tulu Nadu) do not observe these rites.\n\nAncient Hindu literature, in for example the \"Asvalayana Grhyasutra\" and \"Atharvaveda\", identifies eight forms of marriage. They are traditionally presented, as here, in order of religious appropriateness (\"prashasta\"). They also differ very widely in social acceptability. (Legal aspects are regulated mainly by the Hindu Marriage Act, 1955.)\n\n\nThe above four forms of marriage were considered socially proper, and religiously appropriate – \"prashasta\" – under Hinduism, since the rituals include vows from Vedic scriptures. Both the bride and groom commit to each other and share responsibilities to their families. The remaining four do not include vows and were considered \"aprashasta\" (inappropriate). Among these, two were socially acceptable:\n\n\nThe last two forms of marriage were not only inappropriate, but religiously forbidden:\n\n\nJames Lochtefeld comments that these last two forms were forbidden but the marriages themselves were still recognized in ancient Hindu societies, not to allow these acts but rather to provide the woman and any resulting children with legal protection in the society.\n\nThere is no single standard Hindu marriage ceremony. Regional variation is prevalent in the sequence of rituals comprising the ceremony. There is also considerable flexibility within each ritual. Variation reflects family traditions, local traditions, resources of the families and other factors. Three key rituals predominate, as follows. Two are \"yajna\".\n\n\nThe Kanyadaan ceremony is performed by the bride’s father. If the father has died, a guardian of the bride's choosing performs the ritual. The father brings the daughter, then takes the bride's hand and places it in the groom's. This marks the beginning of the ceremony of giving away the bride. The groom accepts the bride's hand, while the \"kama-sukta\" (hymn to love) is pronounced, in the presence of the father, the bride and the groom. The \"Kamasukta\" verse is:\n\n<poem>\n\"Who offered this maiden? to whom is she offered?\"\n\"Kama (the god of love) gave her to me, that I may love her\"\n\"Love is the giver, love is the acceptor\"\n\"Enter thou, the bride, the ocean of love\"\n\n\"With love then, I receive thee\"\n\"May she remain thine, thine own, O God of love\"\n\"Verily, thou art, prosperity itself\"\n\"May the heaven bestow thee, may the earth receive thee\"\n</poem>\n\nAfter this ritual recital, the father asks the groom to not fail the bride in his pursuit of \"dharma\" (moral and lawful life), \"artha\" (wealth) and \"kama\" (love). The groom promises to the bride's father that he shall never fail her in his pursuit of \"dharma\", \"artha\" and \"kama\". The groom repeats the promise three times.\n\nThis repeated promise by the groom marks the end of the \"kanyadaan\" ritual in the Hindu wedding.\n\nThe ritual of \"Panigrahana\" comes after \"Kanyadaan\". It is sometimes preceded by the \"vivaha-homa\" rite, wherein a symbolic fire is lit by the groom to mark the start of a new household.\n\n\"Panigrahana\" is the 'holding the hand' ritual as a symbol of the bride and groom’s impending marital union, with the groom acknowledging a responsibility to four deities: Bhaga signifying wealth, Aryama signifying heavens/milky way, Savita signifying radiance/new beginning, and Purandhi signifying wisdom. The groom faces west, and while the bride sits in front of him, with her face to the east, he holds her hand while the following Rig vedic mantra is recited:\n\n<poem>\n\"I take thy hand in mine, yearning for happiness\"\n\"I ask thee, to live with me, as thy husband\"\n\"Till both of us, with age, grow old\"\n\n\"Know this, as I declare, that the Gods\"\n\"Bhaga, Aryama, Savita and Purandhi, have bestowed thy person, upon me\"\n\"that I may fulfill, my Dharmas of the householder, with thee\"\n\n\"This I am, That art thou\"\n\"The Sāman I, the Ŗc thou\"\n\"The Heavens I, the Earth thou\"\n</poem>\n\nIn the Gujarati Wedding this step is called \"Hast-Milap\" (literally, “meeting of hands”). The whole ceremony was timed around an auspicious time (\"Mauhurat\") for this step and a few decades ago the wedding invitation would even list the time when this event was going to take place.\n\nThe \"Saptapadi\" (Sanskrit “seven steps”/“seven feet”; sometimes called \"Saat Phere\": “seven rounds”) is the most important ritual of Vedic Hindu weddings, and represents the legal element of the Hindu marriage ceremony. The couple conduct seven circuits of the Holy Fire (\"Agni\"), which is considered a witness to the vows they make to each other. In some regions, a piece of clothing or sashes worn by the bride and groom are tied together for this ritual. Elsewhere, the groom holds the bride's right hand in his own right hand. Each circuit of the consecrated fire is led by either the bride or the groom, varying by community and region. Usually, the bride leads the groom in the first circuit. In North India, the first six circuits are led by the bride, and the final one by the groom. In Central India and Suriname, the bride leads the first three or four circuits. With each circuit, the couple makes a specific vow to establish some aspect of a happy relationship and household for each other.\n\nIn some South Indian weddings, after each saying a mantra at each of the seven steps, the couple say these words together:\n\nIn North Indian weddings, the bride and the groom say the following words after completing the seven steps:\n\nThe long form of \"Saptapadi\" starts with a preface announced by the priest, introducing a series of vows the groom and bride make to each other, as follows. With the completion of the seventh step the two become husband and wife.\n\n<poem>\n\"The world of men and women, united in the bond of marriage by Saptapadi, to further promote the joy of life, together listen with triumph.\"\n\nGroom's vow: \"Oh!, you who feeds life-sustaining food, nourish my visitors, friends, parents and offsprings with food and drinks. Oh! beautiful lady, I, as a form of Vishnu, take this first step with you for food.\"\nBride's vow: \"Yes, whatever food you earn with hard work, I will safeguard it, prepare it to nourish you. I promise to respect your wishes, and nourish your friends and family as well.\"\n\nGroom's vow: \"Oh!, thoughtful and beautiful lady, with a well managed home, with purity of behavior and thought, you will enable us to be strong, energetic and happy. Oh! beautiful lady, I, as Vishnu, take this second step with you for the strength of body, character and being.\"\nBride's vow: \"Yes, I will manage the home according to my ability and reason. Together, I promise, to keep a home that is healthy, strength and energy giving.\"\n\nGroom's vow: \"Oh!, skillful and beautiful lady, I promise to devote myself to earning a livelihood by fair means, to discuss, and let you manage and preserve our wealth. Oh! dear lady, I, as Vishnu form, cover this third step with you to thus prosper in our wealth.\"\nBride's vow: \"Yes, I join you in managing our income and expenses. I promise to seek your consent, as I manage our wealth, fairly earned, so it grows and sustains our family.\"\n\nGroom's vow: \"Oh!, dear lady, I promise to trust your decisions about the household and your choices; I promise to dedicate myself to help our community prosper, the matters outside the house. This shall bring us respect. Oh! my lady, I, as Vishnu, take this fourth step with you to participate in our world.\"\nBride's vow: \"Yes, I promise to strive to make the best home for us, anticipate and provide necessary things for your worldly life, and for the happiness of our family.\"\n\nGroom's vow: \"Oh!, lady of skill and pure thoughts, I promise to consult with you and engage you in the keep of our cows, our agriculture and our source of income; I promise to contribute to our country. It shall win us future. Oh! my skilled lady, I, as Vishnu form, take this fifth step with you to together grow our farms and cattle.\"\nBride's vow: \"Yes, I promise to participate and protect the cattle, our agriculture and business. They are a source of yoghurt, milk, ghee, and income, all useful for our family, necessary for our happiness.\"\n\nGroom's vow: \"Oh!, lovely lady, I seek you and only you, to love, to have children, to raise a family, to experience all the seasons of life. Oh! my lovely lady, I, as Vishnu, take this sixth step with you to experience every season of life.\"\nBride's vow: \"Feeling one with you, with your consent, I will be the means of your enjoyment of all the senses. Through life's seasons, I will cherish you in my heart. I will worship you and seek to complete you.\"\n\nGroom's vow: \"Oh friends!, allow us to cover the seventh step together, this promise, our Saptapad-friendship. Please be my constant wife.\"\nBride's vow: \"Yes, today, I gained you, I secured the highest kind of friendship with you. I will remember the vows we just took and adore you forever sincerely with all my heart.\"\n</poem>\n\nMany Hindu weddings start with the \" milne\" (meeting) and \" swagatam\" (welcome) ceremony. This ritual is where the \"baraat\" (groom's procession party) arrives at the bride's home or the location where the bride is and marriage will be celebrated. The \"baraat\" typically includes dancing and joyous members of groom's family, relatives and friends. On their arrival, there is a ritual where key persons from the groom's side and bride's side are introduced to each other. The introduction is typically followed by \"jai mala\" (garland exchange between bride and groom) and a reception that serves food and drinks. \n\nMany other rituals and ceremonies are sometimes found in Hindu weddings, such as \" madhuparka\", \" vivaah-homa\", \"agni-parinayana\", \" asmarohana\", \" laja homa\", \"abhishek\", \"anna-prashashan\", and \"aashir-vadah\". All these ceremonies are carried out at the wedding location, typically at or near the bride's home. These additional rituals include the participation of the brothers, sisters, maternal/paternal relatives, guardians, or friends of the bride.\n\nIn some parts of India, such as Gujarat and Northern India, a \"laja homa\" ritual called \"mangal pherā\" is performed where the couple make four circles around holy fire. It follows \"hasta milap\" (meeting of hands of the couple), but precedes \"saptapadi\". The first three circles is led by the groom, and it represents three of four goals of life considered important in Hindu life – \"Dharma\", \"Artha\", \"Kama\". The fourth circle is led by bride and it represents the fourth goal of life – \"Moksha\". After \"saptapadi\", as hymns are being recited, the groom performs \"māņg sindoor\" ritual where a saffron or red color powder is marked into the parting of the wife's hair. Instead of circling the fire and other steps, the rituals and ceremonies may be performed symbolically, such as stepping on small heaps of rice or throwing grains into the fire.\n\nSome rituals involve rice or other grains, seeds and pastes. In these ceremonies, rice is thrown at the bride, groom or they kick a container containing the grain. Rituals include \"darshan\", where the newly married couple are met, blessed and greeted by family and friends of the bride and groom.\n\nAfter the Hindu wedding is complete, the bride leaves for groom's home via groom's car. In groom's car, bride and groom sit together, and groom's younger brother drive the car. bride's two sister also come with groom's family, when they arrive to groom house where Hindu family members of the groom welcome the newly wedded couple in a ritual known as \"grihapravesa\" (home coming/entry). This ceremony typically requires participation of the mother, father, brothers, and sisters, or other guardians of the groom.\n\nAncient literature suggests the Hindu couple spent time with each other, but delayed the consummation for at least three nights following the wedding. Some scholars have proposed the observance of this rite in the past – known as \"chaturthikarma\" – “the rite performed on the fourth day of marriage”. Chaturthikarma is followed by most of South Indian communities as a possible basis for the validity of a marriage. Other scholars suggest \"saptapadi\" and regionally customary wedding rituals, not consummation, defines legal validity of a Hindu marriage. The Hindu Marriage Act of 1955, Article 7, is consistent with the latter. \"Chaturthikarma\" is not a common practice in Hindu communities.\n\nIn modern Hindu families, the couple proceed to honeymoon after \"grihapravesa\".\n\nIn the Hindu culture of Nepal, marriage rituals are done by the \"Chhetri\" in a sixteen step process that centers on the household. The household is important during the marriage ritual because it is the center of the concept of \"mandala\"; the Chhetri's homes are considered to be domestic mandalas and so have roles as householders. The act of marriage brings men and women into the householder role. \n\nMarriage is the most important rite of passage for the Chhetris and is one of the most serious. Women move from their houses to the home of the groom after marriage. The ceremony is done in a precise and careful manner as to not bring bad luck to the families of the bride and groom; certain traditions, for example no one seeing the face of the bride until the end, are followed in order to ensure future prosperity. Prior to the marriage ceremony, there is no kinship between families of the bride and groom and the bride must be a virgin. The marriage ceremony consists of a series of rites that are performed over a two-day period between the houses of the bride and the groom. Within each home the enclosed area in the courtyard (\"jagya\") and the kitchen are used the most; the jagya and the kitchen are considered the most important parts of the domestic mandala structure because it is where rice (an important part of the Chhetri's culture) is prepared and consumed. At the end of the ceremony is the establishment of the role of the wife and husband in the husband's home.\n\nThe first step in the marriage ceremony is called \"Purbanga\". In the kitchen of their homes, the bride and the groom worship the seven Mother Goddesses as so to pay respect to their ancestors and ask for peace. In the second, third, and fourth step, the groom is then blessed by his mother and is taken outside to his jagya where his father and procession (\"janti\") carry him and bring gifts for the bride to her house in a ceremony called dulähä anmäune. In the fifth step as the groom waits before the house of the bride, gifts of clothes and food are placed around the jagya; the father of the bride then places red paste on the groom's forehead indicating that he is no longer an outsider to his family. The sixth step is the performance of the \"Barani\" or welcoming for the groom and his janti as they enter the jagya. The father purifies the body of the groom using panchämrit (nectar from five pure liquids). A small feast is then held for the groom as the next steps in the marriage continue.\n\nAfter the small feast, the marriage process for the bride begins. The seventh step takes place in the kitchen of the bride where the process of \"kanya dan\" starts; the bride's parents give their daughter in marriage to her groom thereby allowing the bride to be a part of the groom's lineage and making the father's lineage secondary. After they wash their feet they dress in red and, in the eighth step, sit beside in each other in the jagya. They perform post-marriage rites as they make sacrificial offerings to the fire in the center of the jagya. During these rites the bride and groom perform tasks such as placing red powder in the hair of the bride and the bride eats leftover food of the groom and at the end the now husband gives his wife a personal name for which she is to be called by.\n\nAfter the post-marriage ceremony, the married couple being to leave the bride's home. In the ninth step, the husband and wife return to the kitchen of the wife and worship their ancestors and the seven Mother Goddesses. In the tenth, eleventh, and twelfth step, the couple leave the wife's house as she is given a garland from her parents; the wife and husband enter the jagya and are then escorted out riding on palanquins as they return to their permanent home of the husband. The thirteenth step beings once they enter the jagya of the groom and his virgin sisters welcome the wife in a ceremony called \"arti syäl\". They unveil the bride and adorn her with flower garlands and sprinkle puffed rice on her (a sign of prosperity). The fourteenth step is completed once the bride promises gifts to the sisters; she then moves on the fifteenth step where she steps on piles of rice in a path toward the kitchen. The final step is a series of rites, the first of which is the bride worshiping the ancestors and deities of the husband; she then demonstrates her skills in handling rice to the husband's mother and sisters and then they entwine her hair. Finally, the mother unveils the bride again in front of the husband and in a ceremony called \"khutta dhog\", the bride places the foot of the mother on her forehead thereby ending the marriage ceremony.\n\nWhile there are many rituals in Hinduism, such as those at birth and deaths of loved ones, the Hindu wedding is the most important and extensive personal ritual an adult Hindu undertakes in his or her life. Typical Hindu families spend significant effort and financial resources to prepare and celebrate weddings.\n\nIn 2008, Indian weddings market was estimated to be $31 billion a year. Various sources estimate India celebrates about 10 million weddings per year, and over 80% of these are Hindu weddings. The average expenditures exceed US$3,000 per wedding. Another $30 billion per year is spent on jewelry in India, with jewelry for weddings being the predominant market. In a nation with per capita annual income of $1,500, weddings are a major financial burden for the typical Hindu family.\n\nIn India, where most Hindus live, the laws relating to marriage differ by religion. According to the Hindu Marriage Act of 1955, passed by the Parliament of India, for all legal purposes, all Hindus of any caste, creed or sect, Sikh, Buddhists and Jains are deemed Hindus and can intermarry. By the Special Marriage Act, 1954, a Hindu can marry a person who is not Hindu, employing any ceremony, provided specified legal conditions are fulfilled. By Section 7 of Hindu Marriage Act, and tradition, no Hindu marriage is binding and complete before the seventh step of the \"Saptapadi\" ritual, in presence of fire, by the bride and the groom together. In some cases, such as South Indian Hindu marriages, this is not required.\n\nA Vedic sage emphasized that the basis of happy and fulfilling married life is the sense of unity, intimacy and love between husband and wife both physically, mentally and spiritually. Hence wife is considered to be the Ardhangani of husband as per Hindu tradition. Marriage is not for self-indulgence, but is considered a lifelong social and spiritual responsibility. Married life is considered an opportunity for two people to grow as life partners into soul-mates.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2235596", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2235596", "title": "Subliminal Plastic Motives", "text": "Subliminal Plastic Motives\n\nSubliminal Plastic Motives is the debut album from rock band Self, and is perhaps their most well-known release.\n\nThe album was recorded entirely by Matt and his brother, Mike. The album found some modest success with MTV and flagship radio stations like KROQ-FM. Once the band was solidified, videos were made for \"So Low\" and \"Cannon\". \n\nThe album was released by Spongebath Records and was immediately picked up by Zoo Entertainment (now Volcano Entertainment). Critical reception was very positive, with Mahaffey receiving praise for his cut-and-paste, eclectic take on rock music, and garnering comparisons to artists such as Beck and Beastie Boys. Many of Self's fans hold the album in high regard and most of the songs are now fan favorites. While the album featured a hearty dose of what could best be described as \"modern rock\" songs, elements such as hip-hop beats, jazzy piano, dense, complex arrangements, and triggers/samples were dispersed throughout, hinting at Mahaffey's versatility as a composer and Self's future musical directions.\n\n"}
{"id": "2235603", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2235603", "title": "Hugh McGavin", "text": "Hugh McGavin\n\nDr. Hugh James McGavin (14 November 1874 – 8 March 1958) was a politician in Manitoba, Canada. He served in the Legislative Assembly of Manitoba from 1927 to 1932, as a member of the Conservative Party.\n\nMcGavin was born in Paisley, Ontario, son of James McGavin, a saddler born in Catrine, Ayrshire, Scotland and Elizabeth Wright, born in Glasgow Scotland, daughter of James Wight and Jean Malcolm. He came to Manitoba in 1877.\n\nHe received a medical degree from the Manitoba Medical College, and practised as a general physician in Plum Coulee. McGavin was appointed a health officer in 1903, with a stipend of $40 per annum.\n\nDr. McGavin's motto was \"Do all the good you can for as many people as you can for as long as you can\".\n\nHe was married twice: first to Emily Christine Bryans in 1907 and then to Ida Nauer in 1918 after the death of his first wife.\n\nHe first sought election to the Manitoba legislature in the 1910 provincial election, but lost to Liberal Valentine Winkler by 133 votes in the constituency of Rhineland. When he next ran in the 1927 election, he defeated Progressive candidate J.H. Black by 120 votes in Morden and Rhineland. (Black actually won a plurality of votes on the first count, but was defeated on transfers from the third-place candidate. Manitoba elections were determined by a single transferable ballot in this period.)\n\nThe Conservatives formed the official opposition in Manitoba after the 1927 election, and McGavin served as an opposition member for the next five years. In the 1932 campaign, he lost to Liberal-Progressive candidate Cornelius Wiebe by 447 votes.\n\nHe died at home in Plum Coulee at the age of 83.\n"}
{"id": "2235609", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2235609", "title": "Pike of Stickle", "text": "Pike of Stickle\n\nPike of Stickle, also known as Pike o’ Stickle, is a fell in the English Lake District. It reaches a height of 709 metres (2,326 feet) and is situated in the central part of the national park in the valley of Great Langdale. The fell is one of three fells which make up the picturesque Langdale Pikes (the others being Harrison Stickle and Loft Crag), one of the best-known areas in Lakeland. A \"stickle\" is a hill with a steep prominent rocky top, while a \"pike\" is a hill with a peaked summit, the name being therefore partly tautological.\n\nThe Langdale Pikes form a raised rocky parapet around the southern and eastern edges of a high tableland centred upon Thunacar Knott. Pike of Stickle stands at the western end of this system and its crags fall south from the summit, presenting an arresting view from the valley floor 2,000 ft below, or from further afield.\n\nLoft Crag stands next along the rampart, with Thorn Crag and Harrison Stickle further to the east. 'Behind' Pike of Stickle to the north is the depression of Harrison Combe, beyond which are the twin tops of Thunacar Knott. Westward the height of the land gradually falls away to Martcrag Moor, a wide plateau with a few small tarns near the summit (1,795 ft). Martcrag Moor represents the end of the Central Fells as defined by Alfred Wainwright, providing a high-level connection to Rossett Pike in the Southern Fells.\nThe rearward slopes show evidence of the Pavey Ark Member, pebbly sandstone and breccia. The Langdale face displays several strata: from the top The Lingmell Formation, Crinkle Member and Bad Step Tuff. These are composed, respectively, of tuff, lapilli-tuff and breccia; rhyolitic tuff and breccia; and rhyolitic lava-like tuff.\n\nDespite the peaked profile the summit is wide enough for a sizeable cairn surrounded by a small level area. Loft Crag and Gimmer Crag steal the attention in the foreground while Bowfell impresses across Langdale. A wide swathe of the Southern Fells is in view, whilst even distant Skiddaw puts in an appearance.\n\nPike of Stickle rises steeply from Langdale, culminating in a narrow tapering summit which gives excellent views of the head of the valley, the fells of Bow Fell and Crinkle Crags showing well. The fell is usually climbed from Great Langdale with either the New or Old Dungeon Ghyll Hotels as the starting points. There are a number of routes, the most common ascent being a path that slants across the hillside from the New hotel passing between Thorn Crag and Gimmer Crag and then turning left at the col. A quieter route is by Troughton Beck; the walker starts from the Old hotel and goes four kilometres (2½ miles) towards the head of the valley before bearing right and following a zigzag path at the side of Troughton Beck. This route gives the walker an unusual view of the fell from this unfrequented side. There is another route directly up the Stickle Stone Shoot: this route is steep and has become severely eroded in recent years and is no longer recommended as a means of ascent or descent. The Langdale or Borrowdale sides of Stake Pass can also be used, giving access onto Martcrag Moor.\n\nPike of Stickle is the site of one of the most important neolithic stone axe factories in Europe. The most prominent quarries are situated above the scree slopes on the steep southern face of the fell. The factory was set up here because of a vein of greenstone, a very hard volcanic rock, which comes to the surface around the head of the valley. Evidence of axe manufacture have been found in many areas of Great Langdale but it is the screes of Pike of Stickle which have yielded the most discoveries. There is a small cave at the top of the Stickle Stone Shoot near the summit of the fell which was part of the stone axe factory.\n"}
{"id": "2235613", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2235613", "title": "Anal bleaching", "text": "Anal bleaching\n\nAnal bleaching is the process of lightening the color of the skin around the anus. It is done for cosmetic purposes, to make the color of the anus more uniform with the surrounding area. Some treatments are applied in an office or salon by a cosmetic technician and others are sold as cream that can be applied at home. \n\nPornographic film actors were the first to undergo the anal bleaching process, in an effort to lighten the color of their anuses to match the rest of their skin, although it has been suggested by Kristina Rose that this is not the case. As Brazilian waxing became popular, due to the popularity of smaller swimsuits and lingerie, the spread of pornography into the mainstream, and endorsement of the procedure by celebrities, women began noticing that their anuses were darker than the rest of their skin. The increase in the number of women engaging in anal sex has also contributed to women's concern over the appearance of their anus. To combat this perceived problem, anal bleaching began to gain appeal. Gay men also make use of this procedure.\n\nThe procedure was briefly shown in 2004 near the end of an episode \"Cosmetic Surgery Live\". One salon that performed the procedure received an increase in queries in 2005 attributed to an episode of \"Dr. 90210\" on E!, when porn star Tabitha Stevens was filmed having her anus bleached. It garnered several mentions in movies such as \"Brüno\", and \"Bridesmaids\", and in magazines.\n\nThe treatment was apparently first offered in the US in California in 2005; it was reported to be available at the same time in Australia. Spas outside of Hollywood were slow to begin offering it as a beauty treatment, with just one New York spa offering the service by 2007. Creams are now sold for use at home. Although the popularity of anal bleaching has not approached that of Brazilian waxing, it has garnered mainstream recognition over the past several years.\n\nThere are several methods to carry out the anal lightening process. The most common method is to simply use an at-home lotion or gel to target the darkened anal and genital area and gradually fade the darkened area over time.\n\nMany of these cosmetics contained ingredients that would irritate the sensitive anal area, creating temporary discomfort and even burning, scarring, or incontinence.\n\nThe process performed with creams containing hydroquinone is banned in some countries, such as the member states of the EU. In 2006, the FDA removed previous advice that stated hydroquinone was considered generally safe, as hydroquinone has been linked to ochronosis, where skin becomes permanently discoloured and disfigured, and because it may also be a carcinogen. However, its use is not banned in the United States and it is still in use.\n\nOther principal ingredients that are used in skin lightening cosmetics are arbutin and kojic acid. Arbutin, often also called \"bearberry\", can be converted by the body into hydroquinone. Kojic acid was developed as a safer alternative to hydroquinone, however it is less effective at lightening and also carcinogenic.\n\n"}
{"id": "2235615", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2235615", "title": "Bhaskararaya", "text": "Bhaskararaya\n\nBhaskararaya () (1690–1785) is widely considered an authority on all questions pertaining to the worship of the Mother Goddess in Hinduism. He was born in Andhra Pradesh, was welcomed by king Serfoji II of Bhonsle dynasty in South India, and thereupon he settled in Tamil Nadu. According to Douglas Renfrew Brooks, a professor of Religion specializing in Shaktism studies, Bhaskararaya was \"not only a brilliant interpreter of Srividya, he was an encyclopedic writer\", and that he was a \"thinker who had the wealth of Tantric and Vedic traditions at his fingertips\". He belonged to the Kaula tradition of the Shakta Tantrism.\n\nBhaskararaya is the attributed author of more than 40 and range from Vedanta to poems of devotion and from Indian logic and Sanskrit grammar to the studies of Tantra. Several of his texts are considered particularly notable to the Shaktism tradition, one focussed on the Mother Goddess:\n\n\nHis \"Khadyota\" (\"Firefly\") commentary on the Ganesha Sahasranama is considered authoritative by Ganapatya.\n"}
{"id": "2235616", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2235616", "title": "Docetaxel", "text": "Docetaxel\n\nDocetaxel (DTX or DXL), sold under the brand name Taxotere among others, is a chemotherapy medication used to treat a number of types of cancer. This includes breast cancer, head and neck cancer, stomach cancer, prostate cancer and non-small-cell lung cancer. It may be used by itself or along with other chemotherapy medication. It is given by slow injection into a vein.\nCommon side effects include hair loss, low blood cell counts, numbness, shortness of breath, vomiting, and muscle pains. Other severe side effects include allergic reactions and future cancers. Side effects are more common in people with liver problems. Use during pregnancy may harm the baby. Docetaxel is in the taxane family of medications. It works by disrupting the normal function of microtubules and thereby stopping cell division.\nDocetaxel was patented in 1986 and approved for medical use in 1995. It is on the World Health Organization's List of Essential Medicines, the safest and most effective medicines needed in a health system. Docetaxel is available as a generic medication. The wholesale cost in the developing world is about 15.53 to 87.37 per 80 mg vial. This dose in the United Kingdom costs the NHS about £454.53.\n\nDocetaxel is used in the treatment of various cancers, including breast, lung, prostate, gastric, head and neck, and ovarian cancer. Clinical data have shown docetaxel to have cytotoxic activity against breast, colorectal, lung, ovarian, prostate, liver, renal, gastric, and head and neck cancers and melanoma. In hormone-refractory prostate cancer docetaxel improves life expectancy and overall life quality.\n\nThe optimal dose scheduling of taxanes remains unconfirmed, but most studies find significant mortality benefit following either a three-week or a one-week administration schedule. While a 2010 article in Current Clinical Pharmacology states, \"weekly administration has emerged as the optimal schedule,\" the official docetaxel package insert recommends administration every three weeks.\n\nTreatment with docetaxel increases survival time in people with certain types of cancer. While some clinical trials show median survival times to be increased by approximately only three months, the range of survival time is large. Many people survive beyond five years with treatment from docetaxel, however it is difficult to attribute these findings directly to treatment with docetaxel. Improved median survival time and response indicates that docetaxel slows metastatic cancer progression and can lead to disease-free survival. Conjunctive treatment of prednisone with docetaxel has been shown to lead to improved survival rate as well as improved quality of life and reduction of pain compared with treatments with mitoxantrone.\n\nAs well as inhibiting mitosis, the presence of docetaxel has been found to lead to the phosphorylation of the oncoprotein bcl-2, which leads to apoptosis of cancer cells that had previously blocked the apoptotic inducing mechanism, leading to tumour regression. Enhanced effects of radiation therapy when combined with docetaxel has been observed in mice. Docetaxel has also been found to have greater cellular uptake and is retained longer intracellularly than paclitaxel allowing docetaxel treatment to be effective with a smaller dose, leading to fewer and less severe adverse effects.\n\nDocetaxel and paclitaxel have comparable efficacy metastatic breast cancer but paclitaxel has less severe side effects. Additionally, it has been noted that docetaxel is prone to cellular drug resistance via a variety of different mechanisms.\n\nDocetaxel is administered via a one-hour infusion every three weeks over ten or more cycles. Treatment is given under the supervision of an oncologist. Strict monitoring of blood cell counts, liver function, serum electrolytes, serum creatinine, heart function and fluid retention is required to track the progression of tumour cells, response, adverse reactions and toxicity so that treatment can be modified or terminated if necessary.\n\nPremedication with corticosteroids is recommended before each administration of docetaxel to reduce fluid retention and hypersensitive reactions. Other medications will often be given to aid pain management and other symptoms. The treatment of breast cancer with doxorubicin and cyclophosphamide is enhanced by adjuvant treatment with docetaxel. Docetaxel is also used in combination with capecitabine, a DNA synthesis inhibitor.\n\nDocetaxel is a cytotoxic chemotherapeutic agent. As with all chemotherapy, adverse effects are common, and many side effects have been documented. Because docetaxel is a cell-cycle-specific agent, it is cytotoxic to all dividing cells in the body. This includes tumour cells as well as hair follicles, bone marrow and other germ cells. For this reason, common chemotherapy side effects such as hair loss occur; sometimes this can be permanent. North west France are conducting a survey to establish exactly how many people are affected in this way. Independent studies show it could be as high as 6.3%, which puts it in the 'common and frequent' classification.\n\nHaematological adverse effects include neutropenia (95.5%), anaemia (90.4%), febrile neutropenia (11.0%) and thrombocytopenia (8.0%). Deaths due to toxicity accounted for 1.7% of the 2045 patients, and incidence was increased (9.8%) in patients with elevated baseline liver function tests (liver dysfunction).\n\nObservations of severe side effects in the above 40 phase II and phase III studies were also recorded.\n\nMany more side effects have been reported for conjunctive and adjuvant treatment with docetaxel as well as rare post-marketing events.\n\nDocetaxel is contraindicated for use with patients with a baseline neutrophil count less than 1500 cells/µL, a history of severe hypersensitivity reactions to docetaxel or polysorbate 80, severe liver impairment and pregnant or breast-feeding women.\n\nSide effects are experienced more frequently by patients of 65 years or older, but dosage is usually not decreased. Kidney failure is thought not to be a significant factor for docetaxel dosage adjustment. Patients with hepatic insufficiency resulting in serum bilirubin greater than the upper limit of normal (ULN) should not be administered docetaxel, though this is not a stated contraindication. Dosage should be reduced by 20% in people who develop grade 3 or 4 diarrhea following exposure to docetaxel, hepatotoxicity defined by liver enzymes at levels greater than five times the ULN, and grade 2 palmer-planter toxicity.\n\nPaediatric trials of docetaxel have been limited, and so safety of use in patients under 16 years has not been established.\n\nBased on the limited data available, docetaxel appears to be safe in pregnancy if administered during the second and third trimesters; however, maternal and fetal risks should be weighed against benefits to determine the appropriate course of action.\nAs with all chemotherapeutic agents, docetaxel administered to pregnant animals causes a variety of embryofetal toxicities, including death, when given during the period of organogenesis. Yet adequate studies investigating maternal and fetal effects in humans are lacking. One small systematic review that examined the use of taxanes to treat breast cancer in pregnancy showed that, out of 19 patients, only three congenital malformations occurred. Two cases of cerebral ventriculomegaly observed in the study were documented prior to the administration of chemotherapy, suggesting an alternate cause of congenital malformation. The third case involved pyloric stenosis in an infant whose mother received a combination regimen of docetaxel, doxorubicin, cyclophosphamide and paclitaxel; because the fetus was exposed to multiple drugs in utero, it remains difficult to identify docetaxel as the causative teratogenic agent. Further studies are needed to better assess the safety of docetaxel in pregnancy and determine appropriate dosing in pregnant women.\n\nDrug interactions may be the result of altered pharmacokinetics or pharmacodynamics due to one of the drugs involved. Cisplatin, dexamethasone, doxorubicin, etoposide, and vinblastine are all potentially co-administered with docetaxel and did not modify docetaxel plasma binding in phase II studies. Cisplatin is known to have a complex interaction with some CYPs and has in some events been shown to reduce docetaxel clearance by up to 25%. Anticonvulsants induce some metabolic pathways relevant to docetaxel. CYP450 and CYP3A show increased expression in response to the use of anticonvulsants and the metabolism of docetaxel metabolite M4 is processed by these CYPs. A corresponding increase in clearance of M4 by 25% is observed in patients taking phenytoin and phenobarbital, common anticonvulsants.\n\nErythromycin, ketoconazole and cyclosporine are CYP3A4 inhibitors and therefore inhibit the metabolic pathway of docetaxel. When used with anticonvulsants, which induce CYP3A4, an increased dose of docetaxel may be required.\n\nPre-treatment with corticosteroids has been used to decrease hypersensitivity reactions and oedema in response to docetaxel and has shown no effect on the pharmacokinetics of docetaxel. The efficacy of docetaxel was improved by treatment with oral capecitabine, and after more than 27 months follow-up the survival benefit has been confirmed. Doxorubicin was combined with docetaxel in one study of 24 patients and resulted in an increased AUC of docetaxel by 50 to 70%, indicating doxorubicin may affect the disposition of docetaxel. Etoposide has also been shown to decrease docetaxel clearance, though patient numbers for this observation have been low.\n\nPrednisone given with docetaxel led to improved survival, quality of life and pain management in patients with hormone-refractory prostate cancer.\n\nDocetaxel is of the chemotherapy drug class; taxane, and is a semi-synthetic analogue of paclitaxel (Taxol), an extract from the bark of the rare Pacific yew tree, \"Taxus brevifolia\". Due to scarcity of paclitaxel, extensive research was carried out leading to the formulation of docetaxel – an esterified product of 10-deacetyl baccatin III, which is extracted from the renewable and more readily available leaves of the European yew tree.\n\nDocetaxel differs from paclitaxel at two positions in its chemical structure. It has a hydroxyl functional group on carbon 10, whereas paclitaxel has an acetate ester, and a tert-butyl carbamate ester exists on the phenylpropionate side chain instead of the benzamide in paclitaxel. The carbon 10 functional group change causes docetaxel to be more water-soluble than paclitaxel.\n\nDocetaxel is a white powder and is the active ingredient available in 20 mg and 80 mg Taxotere single-dose vials of concentrated anhydrous docetaxel in polysorbate 80. The solution is a clear brown-yellow containing 40 mg docetaxel and 1040 mg polysorbate 80 per mL. 20 mg Taxotere is distributed in a blister carton containing one single-dose vial of Taxotere (docetaxel) preparation in 0.5 mL sterile pyrogen-free anhydrous polysorbate 80, and a single dose Taxotere solvent vial containing 1.5 mL 13% ethanol in saline to be combined and diluted in a 250 mL infusion bag containing 0.9% sodium chloride or 5% glucose for administration. 80 mg Taxotere is supplied identically but with 2.0 mL polysorbate 80 and 6.0 mL 13% ethanol in saline. The docetaxel and solvent vials are combined to give a solution of 10 mg/mL and the required dose is drawn from this solution. Vials have an overfill to compensate for liquid loss during preparation, foaming, adhesion to vial walls and the dead volume. 20 mg vials may be stored for 24 months below 25 °C away from light and 80 mg vials for 26 months in the same conditions.\n\nRecently Sanofi has got approval for one-vial formulation. With this one-vial formulation, the preparation of the infusion solution is simplified by eliminating the first dilution step.\nThe two-vial and one-vial formulations contain the same drug substance, docetaxel trihydrate, and the same excipients (ethanol, polysorbate 80 and citric acid).\nThe one-vial formulation is administered as an aqueous intravenous solution that contains the same drug substance in the same concentration as the already approved two-vial formulation. The same grade, quality, and quantity of polysorbate 80 are present in the infusion solution of both formulations. The only difference between these two formulations is the quantity of ethanol.\n\nA model based on electron crystallographic density and nuclear magnetic resonance deconvolution has been proposed to explain the binding of docetaxel to β-tubulin. In this T-shaped/butterfly model, a deep hydrophobic cleft exists near the surface of the β-tubulin where three potential hydrogen bonds and multiple hydrophobic contacts bind to docetaxel. The hydrophobic pocket walls contain helices H1, H6, H7 and a loop between H6 and H7 that form hydrophobic interactions with the 3’-benzamido phenyl, 3’-phenyl, and the 2-benzoyl phenyl of docetaxel. 3’-phenyl also has contact with β-sheets B8 and B10. The C-8 methyl of docetaxel has Van der Waals interactions with two residues, Thr-276 and Gln-281 near the C-terminal end of β-tubulin. Docetaxel's O-21 experiences electrostatic attraction to Thr-276 and the C-12 methyl has proximity with Leu-371 on the loop between B9 and B10.\n\nOral bioavailability has been found to be 8% ±6% on its own and, when co-administered with cyclosporine, bioavailability increased to 90% ± 44%. In practice, docetaxel is administered intravenously only to increase dose precision. Evaluation of docetaxel pharmacokinetics in phase II and III clinical studies were with 100 mg/m dosages given over one-hour infusions every three weeks.\n\nDocetaxel was shown to be greater than 98% plasma protein bound independent of concentration at 37 °C and pH 7.4 Docetaxel's plasma protein binding includes lipoproteins, alpha1 acid glycoprotein and albumin. Alpha1 acid glycoprotein is the most variable of these proteins inter-individually, especially in cancer patients and is therefore the main determinant of docetaxel's plasma binding variability. Docetaxel interacted little with erythrocytes and was unaffected by the polysorbate 80 in its storage medium. Polysorbate 80 may be the cause of hypersensitivity reasons in taxanes as recent studies indicated.\n\nThe concentration-time profile of docetaxel was consistent with a three-compartment pharmacokinetic model. An initial, relatively rapid decline, with an α half-life of mean 4.5 minutes is representative of distribution to peripheral compartments from the systemic circulation. A β half-life of mean 38.3 minutes and a relatively slow γ half-life of mean 12.2 hours represent the slow efflux of docetaxel from the peripheral compartment.\n\nAdministration a 100 mg/m dose over a one-hour infusion gave a mean total body clearance of 21 L/h/m and a mean steady state volume of distribution of 73.8 L/m or 123 L based on the mean BSA (body surface area) of 1.68 m. Area under the plasma concentration-time curve had a mean value of 2.8 mg.h/L. The Cmax of docetaxel was found to be 4.15 ± 1.35 mg/L. Increased dose resulted in a linear increase of the area under the concentration-time curve and so it is concluded that dose is directly proportional to plasma concentration.\n\nDocetaxel is mainly metabolised in the liver by the cytochrome P450 CYP3A4 and CYP3A5 subfamilies of isoenzymes. Metabolism is principally oxidative and at the tert-butylpropionate side chain, resulting first in an alcohol docetaxel (M2), which is then cyclised to three further metabolites (M1, M3 and M4). M1 and M3 are two diastereomeric hydroxyoxazolidinones and M4 is an oxazolidinedione. Phase II trials of 577 patients showed docetaxel clearance is related to body surface area and to hepatic enzyme and alpha1 acid glycoprotein plasma levels. The following model represents docetaxel clearance in humans:\n\nwhere CL is total body clearance (L/h), BSA is total body surface area (m), AAG and ALB represent alpha1 acid glycoprotein and albumin plasma concentrations (g/L) respectively, and AGE is the patients age (years). HEP12 represents a measure of hepatic dysfunction, affecting clearance of docetaxel. This final model accounted for a modest proportion of patients and identified most of the patients varying from the model (population median of CL = 35.6 L/h) as having hepatic dysfunction, indicating hepatic function as the most unpredictable factor with regards to clearance variability.\n\nPatients with significant hepatic dysfunction had an approximately 30% decrease in clearance of docetaxel and were also at a higher risk of toxicity poisoning from docetaxel treatment. Clearance has been shown from population pharmacokinetic studies to decrease significantly with age, increased alpha1 acid glycoprotein and albumin concentrations and decreased body surface area.\n\nRenal impairment is unlikely to affect metabolism or excretion of docetaxel as renal excretion contributes less than 5% of elimination. Limited data is available for docetaxel use in children with dosage between 55 and 75 mg/m. Two paediatric studies have taken place that show a mean clearance of 33 L/h/m and concentration-time profiles best fitted by a two-compartmental model of distribution and elimination. Mean distribution half-life was 0.09 hours and mean elimination half-life was 1.4 hours in paediatric studies.\n\nBiodistribution of 14C-labelled docetaxel in three patients showed the bulk of the drug to be metabolised and excreted in bile to the faeces. Of the radioactively labelled docetaxel administered, 80% was eliminated to the faeces with 5% in the urine over seven days, an indication that urinary excretion of docetaxel is minimal. Saliva contributed minimal excretion and no excretion was detected through pulmonary means. The terminal half-life of docetaxel was determined as approximately 86 hours, through prolonged plasma sampling, contrary to the clinically stated terminal half-life of 10–18 hours.\n\nDocetaxel binds to microtubules reversibly with high affinity and has a maximum stoichiometry of 1 mole docetaxel per mole tubulin in microtubules. This binding stabilizes microtubules and prevents depolymerisation from calcium ions, decreased temperature and dilution, preferentially at the plus end of the microtubule. Docetaxel has been found to accumulate to higher concentration in ovarian adenocarcinoma cells than kidney carcinoma cells, which may contribute to the more effective treatment of ovarian cancer by docetaxel. It has also been found to lead to the phosphorylation of oncoprotein bcl-2, which is apoptosis-blocking in its oncoprotein form.\n\nThe cytotoxic activity of docetaxel is exerted by promoting and stabilising microtubule assembly, while preventing physiological microtubule depolymerisation/disassembly in the absence of GTP. This leads to a significant decrease in free tubulin, needed for microtubule formation and results in inhibition of mitotic cell division between metaphase and anaphase, preventing further cancer cell progeny.\n\nBecause microtubules do not disassemble in the presence of docetaxel, they accumulate inside the cell and cause initiation of apoptosis. Apoptosis is also encouraged by the blocking of apoptosis-blocking bcl-2 oncoprotein. Both \"in vitro\" and \"in vivo\" analysis show the anti-neoplastic activity of docetaxel to be effective against a wide range of known cancer cells, cooperate with other anti-neoplastic agents activity, and have greater cytotoxicity than paclitaxel, possibly due to its more rapid intracellular uptake.\n\nThe main mode of therapeutic action of docetaxel is the suppression of microtubule dynamic assembly and disassembly, rather than microtubule bundling leading to apoptosis, or the blocking of bcl-2.\n\nDocetaxel exhibits cytotoxic activity on breast, colorectal, lung, ovarian, gastric, renal and prostate cancer cells. Docetaxel does not block disassembly of interphase microtubules and so does not prevent entry into the mitotic cycle, but does block mitosis by inhibiting mitotic spindle assembly. Resistance to paclitaxel or anthracycline doxorubicin does not necessarily indicate resistance to docetaxel. Microtubules formed in the presence of docetaxel are of a larger size than those formed in the presence of paclitaxel, which may result in improved cytotoxic efficacy. Abundant formation of microtubules and the prevention of replication caused by docetaxel leads to apoptosis of tumour cells and is the basis of docetaxel use as a cancer treatment. Docetaxel activity is significantly greater in ovarian and breast tumours than for lung tumours.\n\nDocetaxel is marketed worldwide under the name Taxotere by Sanofi-Aventis as well as Docefrez by Sun Pharma Global and Zytax by Zydus. Annual sales of Taxotere in 2010 were €2.122 billion (3.1 billion). The patent expired in 2010.\n\nTaxotere was developed by Rhône-Poulenc Rorer (now Sanofi-Aventis) following from the discoveries of Pierre Potier at CNRS at Gif-sur-Yvette during his work on improvements to the production of Taxol.\n\nIn the UK (in 2009) The cost of six cycles (18 weeks) of docetaxel at a dose of 75 mg/m2 IV every 21 days is £5,262 (based on an average body surface area 1.75 m).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2235625", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2235625", "title": "Presidential Unit Citation (United States)", "text": "Presidential Unit Citation (United States)\n\nThe Presidential Unit Citation (PUC), originally called the Distinguished Unit Citation, is awarded to units of the uniformed services of the United States, and those of allied countries, for extraordinary heroism in action against an armed enemy on or after 7 December 1941 (the date of the Attack on Pearl Harbor and the start of American involvement in World War II). The unit must display such gallantry, determination, and \"esprit de corps\" in accomplishing its mission under extremely difficult and hazardous conditions so as to set it apart from and above other units participating in the same campaign.\n\nSince its inception by Executive Order on 26 February 1942, retroactive to 7 December 1941, to 2008, the Presidential Unit Citation has been awarded in conflicts such as World War II, the Korean War, the Vietnam War, Iraq War, and the War in Afghanistan.\n\nThe collective degree of valor (combat heroism) against an armed enemy by the unit nominated for the PUC is the same as that which would warrant award of the individual award of the Distinguished Service Cross, Air Force Cross or Navy Cross. In some cases, one or more individuals within the unit may have also been awarded individual awards for their contribution to the actions for which their entire unit was awarded a Presidential Unit Citation. The unit with the most Presidential Unit Citations is the submarine with 9 citations.\n\nThe Army citation was established by on 26 February 1942, superseded by on 2 December 1943, which authorized the Distinguished Unit Citation. As with other Army unit citations, the PUC is in a larger frame than other ribbons, and is worn above the right pocket. All members of the unit may wear the decoration, whether or not they personally participated in the acts for which the unit was cited. Only those assigned to the unit at the time of the action cited may wear the decoration as a permanent award. For both the Army and Air Force, the emblem is a solid blue ribbon enclosed in a gold frame.\n\nThe Air Force PUC was adopted from the Army Distinguished Unit Citation after the Air Force became a separate military branch in 1947. By , dated Jan. 10, 1957 the Air Force redesignated the Distinguished Unit Citation as the Presidential Unit Citation. The Air Force PUC is the same color and design as the Army PUC but slightly smaller, so that it can be worn in alignment with other Air Force ribbons on the left pocket following personal awards. As with the Army, all members of a receiving unit may wear the decoration while assigned to it, but only those assigned to the unit at the time of the action cited may wear the decoration as a permanent award; or if any member of a receiving unit had it at their last duty station prior to being either discharged or retired, they may continue to wear the decoration as prescribed.\n\nThe Citation is carried on the receiving unit's colors in the form of a blue streamer, long and wide. For the Army, only on rare occasions will a unit larger than battalion qualify for award of this decoration.\nCitations \"to Naval and Marine Corps Units for Outstanding Performance in Action\" was established by on 6 February 1942.\n\nThe Navy version has navy blue, yellow, and red horizontal stripes, and is the only Navy ribbon having horizontal stripes. To distinguish between the two versions of the Presidential Unit Citation, the Navy version which is more often referred to simply as the Presidential Unit Citation, is referred to as the Navy Presidential Unit Citation and sometimes as the \"Navy and Marine Corps Presidential Unit Citation\", the Army and Air Force version is referred to by the Army and Air Force as the Army Presidential Unit Citation and Air Force Presidential Unit Citation. The ribbon is worn by only by those Navy and Marine service members who were assigned to the unit for the \"award period\" of the award. In the Army, those who join the unit after the \"award period\" may also wear it while assigned to the unit. ALNan 137-43 states that the first award has a blue enameled star on the ribbon and additional stars for subsequent awards. In 1949, the award changed with no star for the first award and bronze stars for subsequent awards.\n\nTo commemorate the first submerged voyage under the North Pole by the nuclear-powered submarine in 1958, all members of her crew who made that voyage were authorized to wear their Presidential Unit Citation ribbon with a special clasp in the form of a gold block letter N. Currently, US Navy sailors assigned to the USS \"Nautilus\" memorial at the Submarine Force Museum in Groton, Connecticut, are permitted to wear the Navy Presidential Unit Citation.\n\nAs of 2014, the same device may be awarded for the Nuclear Deterrence Operations Service Medal for those personnel who work in direct support of ICBM operations who serve 179 non-consecutive days dispatched to a missile complex.\n\nTo commemorate the first submerged circumnavigation of the world by the nuclear-powered submarine during its shakedown cruise in 1960, all members of her crew who made that voyage were authorized to wear their Presidential Unit Citation ribbon with a special clasp in the form of a golden replica of the globe.\n\nUnited States Coast Guard units may be awarded either the Navy or Coast Guard version of the Presidential Unit Citation, depending on which service the Coast Guard was supporting when the citation action was performed.\n\nThe current decoration is known as the \"Department of Homeland Security Presidential Unit Citation\". The original Coast Guard Presidential Unit Citation was established under the authority of Executive Order 10694 (signed by President Dwight D. Eisenhower on January 10, 1957), and amended by Section 74 of Executive Order 13286 (signed by President George W. Bush on February 28, 2003) to transfer the award of the USCG PUC to the Secretary of Homeland Security.\n\nA Coast Guard version of the award was awarded to all U.S. Coast Guard and Coast Guard Auxiliary personnel by President George W. Bush for rescue and relief operations in response to Hurricane Katrina from 29 August 2005 to 13 September 2005. All who received the award for responding to Hurricane Katrina are authorized to wear the Presidential Unit Citation ribbon with a special clasp in the form of the internationally recognized hurricane symbol.\n\nThe United States Public Health Service Presidential Citation was established in 2015. The design was finalized by the Army Institute of Heraldry on 17 August 2015. On 24 September 2015, Barack Obama, the President of the United States at the time, presented the Presidential Unit Citation to the officers of the United States Public Health Service Commissioned Corps for the 2014–15 Ebola Crisis in West Africa and the United States.\n\n<br>\n\nFor a full list of non-U.S. units receiving Distinguished Unit Citations and later the renamed Presidential Unit Citation see Non-U.S. recipients of U.S. gallantry awards#Unit Citations\n\nA reconnaissance and intelligence unit (1st Bn.) of the 394th Infantry Regiment, on the 16th December 1944 at Losheimergraben, found itself in a situation which turned into a decisive battle with an overwhelming German Paratrooper Bn. Almost 40 years later their heroic fight was awarded with the Presidential Unit Citation Order No. 26 in 1981. The memorial plaque is mounted on a stone at the N626 at the infamous WW2 Losheimergraben crossroads.\n\nSays Captain John Della-Giustina, \"For their exploits, the I&R Platoon, 394th Infantry Regiment, 99th Infantry Division, would later become \"the most heavily decorated platoon for a single action in World War II.\" \n\nTwo units of the Free French Forces were awarded Presidential Unit Citations during World War II. The first was the 2nd Armored Division, which received the award after the liberation of Strasbourg; the second was the 3rd Foreign Infantry Regiment, which received it in 1946 with the inscription 'Rhine-Bavarian Alps'.\n\nOn April 22, 1986, the 1st Fighter Group Força Aérea Brasileira (the Brazilian Air Force) was awarded the Presidential Unit Citation for its actions in the Po Valley region of Italy in World War II. The Brazilians, operating in Italy in support of Allied forces, destroyed in one day (April 22, 1945) over 45 vehicles, strafed pontoon bridges on the River Po (hampering a German retreat) and harassed fixed positions of the German forces. From the citation:\n\nThe 1st Battalion, Gloucestershire Regiment and Troop C, 170th Independent Mortar Battery of the British Army were both awarded the Presidential Unit Citation for their defence of Hill 235 whilst surrounded by Chinese forces during the Battle of the Imjin River. The 2nd Battalion, Princess Patricia's Canadian Light Infantry and 3rd Battalion, Royal Australian Regiment were awarded the citation for their actions during the Battle of Kapyong, shortly afterwards.\n\nOne Belgian-Luxembourgian battalion of the Belgian United Nations Command (now the 3rd Parachute Regiment,) was awarded the Presidential Unit Citation once for actions during the Battle of the Imjin River.\n\nThe Colombia Battalion received the citation while attached to the American 21st Infantry Regiment in 1951.\n\nOne Dutch unit, the Netherlands Detachment United Nations, part of the Regiment Van Heutsz, was awarded the Presidential Unit Citation twice for actions during the Korean War. The first citation was awarded after the battle near Wonju and Hoengson in February 1951. The unit was awarded a second time for its bravery during the Soyang River Battle in May–June 1951.\n\nPresident Harry Truman signed a Distinguished Unit Citation (now the Presidential Unit Citation) on July 11, 1951, for the Turkish Brigade's acts of heroism. It reads: \"The Turkish Brigade, a member of the United Nations Forces in Korea is cited for exceptionally outstanding performance of duty in combat in the area of Kumyangjang-ni, Korea, from 25 to 27 January 1951.\"\n\nThe Greek Expeditionary Force (Korea), Sparta Battalion, received its first US Presidential Unit Citation in February 1952 for the capture of Scotch Hill. It was awarded the Presidential Unit Citation for the second time for their actions in the defense of Outpost Harry while vastly outnumbered by Chinese forces, June 18, 1953. The 13th Flight Greek air force received a US Presidential Unit Citation for its participation in the evacuation of US Marines at Hagaru-ri in December 1950.\n\nThe French battalion of the UN forces in Korea, attached to the 23rd Infantry Regiment, US 2nd Infantry Division (\"Indian Head\"), received 3 Distinguished Unit Citations in 1951 : on February 20, July 11 (actions in Chipyong-Ni) and August 9 (as part of the 2nd Infantry Division).\n\nThe 2 Squadron SAAF of South Africa was awarded the honour, which was presented in August 1956.\n\n41 Commando,(Independent) Royal Marines was awarded the US Navy and Marine Corps PUC for its actions at the Chosin Reservoir while attached to the 1st Marine Division.\n\nThe 17th Bombardment Group was awarded the Republic of Korea Presidential Unit Citation for the period May 24, 1952 – March 31, 1953 and Distinguished Unit Citation for actions December 1, 1952 – April 30, 1953.\n\nLyndon B. Johnson awarded a Presidential Unit Citation to 1st Brigade 101st Airborne June 2–22 during Operation Hawthorne Dak To Province elements of 1st 327th Tiger Force & Attached Recon of A troop 17th Cavalry also were awarded a South Vietnamese Presidential Citation from President Nguyen Cao Ky for extraordinary Heroism; the 2nd 327 also received a second Presidential citation from Lyndon Johnson at the battle of Tou Mourong in 1966.\n\nA Presidential Unit Citation was awarded to D Company, 6th Battalion, Royal Australian Regiment, on 28 May 1968, for the unit's actions at Long Tân, Bà Rịa–Vũng Tàu, South Vietnam on 18 August 1966.\n\nIn 1968, the Presidential Unit Citation was awarded to the 3d Marine Division (Reinforced) \"for extraordinary heroism and outstanding performance of duty\" ... \"from 8 March 1965 to 15 September 1967.\" See MCBul 1650 for included units list.\n\nIn 1969, the Presidential Unit Citation was awarded to USS Harnett County (LST-821) by President Nixon, for Extraordinary Heroism during the period 12 December 1968 to 30 April 1969 supporting Operation Giant Slingshot on the Vam Co Dong River.\n<Award Citation>\n\nIn 2012, the Presidential Unit Citation was awarded to the 4th contingent, CDT3 [Clearance Diving Team 3], Royal Australian Navy for service during the Vietnam War in 1968/69.\n\nIn 1977, the Presidential Unit Citation was presented to New Zealand's 161 Battery in 1977 for service during the Vietnam War in 1965–66.\n\nIn 1971, the Presidential Unit Citation was awarded to the 3d Armored Cavalry Squadron, Army of the Republic of Vietnam and attached U.S. Advisor/Liaison Personnel for extraordinary heroism during the period 1 January 1968 to 30 September 1968 in actions in Pleiku and Binh Dinh Provinces. (DA General Order No. 24, 27 April 1971.)\n\nIn 2001, the Presidential Unit Citation was awarded to the Republic of Vietnam Air Force 219th Helicopter Squadron (South Vietnam), Danang, Republic of Vietnam while assigned or attached to MACV-SOG for extraordinary heroism, great combat achievement and unwavering fidelity while executing unheralded top secret missions deep behind enemy lines across Southeast Asia during the period 24 January 1964 to 30 April 1972. (DA General Order No. 25, 8 June 2001.)\n\nIn 1966, the Presidential Unit Citation was awarded to the 514th Tactical Fighter Squadron of the Republic of Vietnam Air Force for extraordinary heroism and outstanding performance of duty in combat against an armed enemy of the Republic of Vietnam throughout the period 1 January 1964 to 28 February 1965.\n\nIn 1968 and 1970 the Air Force's 56 Special Operations Wing (56 SOW) was awarded two Presidential Unit Citations for extraordinary heroism and outstanding performance of duty while conducting Search and Rescue (SAR) operations in North Vietnam and Laos as well as strike, interdiction and Forward Air Control (FAC) operations against hostile forces.<reference needed>\n\nUnits of the Army, 3rd battalion, 16th Artillery were awarded the presidential unit citation for actions during the January, 1968 Tet offensive in Vietnam. They provided sustained artillery fire under severe conditions that protected their own troops and prevented the attacking forces of North Vietnam and the Viet cong from retreating. The support they provided lasted for 72 hours, during which time the troops had no sleep and no time to eat. Some units of the 16th artillery received sniper and mortar fire but continued supporting troops in spite of the risks involved.\n\nIn 1973 the PUC was awarded to Carrier Air Wing Nine and USS Constellation for extrarodinary heroism. On May 10, 1972 VF-92 and VF-96 shot down 7 Migs tying the single day record of any air unit. Wing pilots received 5 Navy Crosses, and 24 Silver Stars.\n\nOn December 7, 2004, the Combined Joint Special Operations Task Force-South, known as Task Force K-BAR, a special collection of U.S. and international special forces units, was awarded the Presidential Unit Citation. This award, for service between 17 October 2001 and 30 March 2002, was very unusual in that it was made to multiple international units fighting in the War in Afghanistan.\n\nThe following units were recognized:\n\nIn the Presidential Unit Citation for Task Force K-BAR, Major General W. Semianiw, Chief Military Personnel For the Chief of the Defense Staff, stated:\n\nIn 2012, the Navy and Marine Corps Presidential Unit Citation was awarded and presented at the U.S. Embassy in Canberra to two members of the Australian Army for service as embedded members of the Marine Expeditionary Brigade-Afghanistan for outstanding performance in action against enemy forces from 29 May 2009 to 12 April 2010, in support of Operation Enduring Freedom.\n\n"}
{"id": "2235632", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2235632", "title": "Superkings", "text": "Superkings\n\nSuperkings (or John Player as it was originally called) is a British brand of cigarettes, currently owned and manufactured by Imperial Tobacco.\n\nSuperkings was launched in 1983. The name is derived from the 100 mm length of the cigarette, which was amongst the first in the UK to be longer than the usual king size. The term is often used to describe any cigarette of regular gauge but with additional length to a king size cigarette.\n\nBeing primarily marketed towards the working-class female smoker, the brand was the 9th most popular cigarette brand in the UK with 3.3% of the market share in 2007.\n\nA study showed that, compared with 2013 and 2014, the original Superkings is the most popular variant, followed by Superkings Menthol And Superkings Blue.\n\nSuperkings is sold in the United Kingdom. It has also been sold in Ireland, the Netherlands, Germany, France, Spain, Malta, Greece, Cyprus, Belarus, Russia, Australia and New Zealand.\n\n"}
{"id": "2235646", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2235646", "title": "Eye to the Telescope", "text": "Eye to the Telescope\n\nEye to the Telescope is the debut studio album by Scottish singer-songwriter KT Tunstall, originally released 13 December 2004 (see 2004 in British music), and re-released 10 January 2005 by Relentless Records. On 19 July 2005, it was nominated for the 2005 Mercury Music Prize in the United Kingdom. Tunstall promoted the album in the United States and Canada in December 2005. The album was released on 7 February 2006 in the US. Also, a special CD/DVD edition of the album was released in September 2006 in America, along with a different cover and a bonus track.\n\nThe album was a strong seller worldwide, and became the 50th best-selling album of the 2000s decade in the United Kingdom.\n\nReviews for \"Eye to the Telescope\" were positive. Mark A. Price of PopMatters gave the album a score of 7 out of 10, noting that it manages to sound \"both new and familiar\", mixing influences from artists like Melissa Etheridge and Fiona Apple, while adding some originality of her own. Stephen Thomas Erlewine of AllMusic gave it three and a half stars out of five, calling it \"a promising, satisfying debut\". On Metacritic, \"Eye to the Telescope\" has a score of 76 out of 100, indicating \"generally favorable reviews\".\n\nThe album entered the UK album chart at 73 and quickly dropped out again (it originally entered the lower regions of the Top 200 in its debut week, but these placings are not officially recorded for statistical purposes). It re-entered at 66 a few weeks later, and its rise was both surprising and unique for a new album on the UK charts. It improved every week for four weeks before peaking at number 36, then dropping down as low as 63 again. It then resumed a somewhat meteoric rise, culminating in a peak of number seven before slowly shifting back down. The publicity surrounding Tunstall's Mercury Music Prize nomination sent it back up the charts to an eventual peak of No. 3, after which time it became a Top 20 mainstay for the rest of 2005. It dropped out of the Top 10 in the 61st week, and has dropped continually since, before ending its run at 72 weeks. After a several month absence, the album returned at No. 66 for a 73rd non-consecutive week in August 2006.\n\nThe singles from the album became increasingly more successful, with \"Other Side of the World\" spending almost five months on the chart and \"Suddenly I See\" remaining in the Top 40 for 10 weeks. The album's next single, \"Under the Weather\", entered the chart at No. 39, while the fifth and final single, \"Another Place to Fall\", became Tunstall's first single to miss the Top 40 after more than 1.3 million copies of the album had been sold. In total, Tunstall has spent 133 weeks so far on the British charts.\n\nThe album was certified 5× platinum by the Irish album chart selling about 75,000 copies, and shipping 1.5 million copies in the UK, certifying it 5× platinum there as well. It was also certified platinum in Canada in January 2007. Worldwide, the album has sold 2.6 million copies.\n\nAll tracks produced by Steve Osborne, except for track 1, \"Other Side of the World\", which is produced by Osborne and Martin Terefe, and track 4, \"Black Horse and the Cherry Tree\", which is produced by Andy Green.\n\nThe original edition of the album, released in December 2004, had a slightly different track order and did not include the studio version of \"Black Horse and the Cherry Tree\"; the version of the track recorded on \"Later... with Jools Holland\" was included as a \"bonus live track\".\n"}
{"id": "2235648", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2235648", "title": "Self-directed investment clubs", "text": "Self-directed investment clubs\n\nA self-directed investment club is a type of investment club in which members do not make financial contributions, but rather meet on a regular or informal basis to share stock tips and advice, and then invest in their individual portfolios, not in a common club portfolio (as is more typical of investment clubs). The phrase was coined by financial author and investment club expert Douglas Gerlach in \"Investment Clubs for Dummies\" (Hungry Minds, 2001).\n"}
{"id": "2235659", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2235659", "title": "The Homecoming (Star Trek: Deep Space Nine)", "text": "The Homecoming (Star Trek: Deep Space Nine)\n\n\"The Homecoming\" is the 21st episode of the American science fiction television series \"\". It is the first of a three-part story arc, and the first episode of the .\n\nSet in the 24th century, the series follows the adventures on Deep Space Nine, a space station located near a stable wormhole between the Alpha and Gamma quadrants of the Milky Way Galaxy, in orbit of the planet Bajor. In this episode Kira rescues a Bajoran prisoner of war; meanwhile, an extremist group begins to take control of planet Bajor.\n\nQuark gives Kira a Bajoran earring, which she immediately recognizes as belonging to Li Nalas, a Bajoran war hero long thought dead. Li is being held on the desert planet Cardassia IV, so Kira requests a runabout for a rescue mission. Sisko tells her he will consider it, but while he considers the matter, O'Brien discovers graffiti from an extremist faction called \"The Circle\", who want to expel all non-Bajorans from Bajor. Seeing this convinces Sisko that Bajor needs a leader like Li Nalas and he grants Kira the runabout.\n\nKira and O'Brien, disguising their runabout as a Lesseppian transport, travel to Cardassia IV and discover a labor camp with more than a dozen Bajorans. O'Brien pretends to solicit Kira to one of the soldiers, tricking him into lowering the force field that surrounds the camp. They rescue Li and several other prisoners. Before Kira and O'Brien return to DS9, Gul Dukat contacts Sisko to inform him that the Cardassian government has issued a formal apology and that the remaining prisoners are en route to Bajor. Bajor's provisional government, on the other hand, chastises Kira, because her actions might have resulted in war with Cardassia.\n\nDS9's Bajoran population greets Li Nalas as a returning hero. Sisko and Kira urge him to help bring stability to Bajor, but shortly thereafter Li is caught trying to stow-away on a departing freighter. He relates to a puzzled Sisko that he never wanted to be a hero; he killed an unarmed Cardassian out of necessity in a purely chance encounter, and his fellow Bajorans eventually turned him into a legend. Sisko convinces Li to stay, because Bajor needs a legend like him.\n\nAfter a trip to Bajor, Li Nalas returns with Minister Jaro Essa of the provisional government. The Chamber of Ministers has invented a new title for Li: \"Navarch.\" However, the title means little; seeing Li as a threat to their power, the politicians have made him liaison officer to DS9 and \"promoted\" Kira to Bajor, where they believe she can pose them no more danger.\n\nIn 2013, Keith DeCandido gave the episode a warp factor rating of 7/10 for Tor.com, calling it \"an excellent start to a new season.\"\n\nIn 2015, Geek.com recommended this episode as \"essential watching\" for their abbreviated \"Star Trek: Deep Space Nine\" binge-watching guide, they noted that this episode is part of a trilogy that includes the first three episodes of the second season, (\"The Homecoming\", \"The Circle\", and \"The Siege\").\n\nIn 2018, SyFy recommend this episode for its abbreviated watch guide for the Bajoran character Kira Nerys, as a trilogy with the following two episodes. They note that in this episode a Bajoran extremist group is conducting attacks to challenge the new provisional Post-Occupation government of planet Bajor, forcing Kira to go all out to prevent a civil war, according to SyFy.\n\n\n"}
