{"id": "2290865", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2290865", "title": "Raid on Gananoque", "text": "Raid on Gananoque\n\nThe Raid on Gananoque was an action conducted by the United States Army on 21 September 1812 against Gananoque, Upper Canada during the War of 1812. The Americans sought to plunder ammunition and stores to resupply their own forces. Gananoque was a key point in the supply chain between Montreal and Kingston, the main base of the Provincial Marine on the Great Lakes. Under the command of Captain Benjamin Forsyth, the Americans departed Ogdensburg, New York and sailed to Gananoque, where they encountered resistance from the 2nd Regiment of Leeds Militia. The British militia was forced to retreat and the Americans successfully destroyed the storehouse and returned to the United States with captured supplies. As a result of the raid, the British strengthened their defences along the St. Lawrence River.\n\nGananoque is located roughly from Kingston, the principal base of the British Provincial Marine on the Great Lakes and a key transshipment point. Gananoque served as a depot for ammunition, stores, foodstuffs along the St. Lawrence River route between Kingston and Montreal. Furthermore, it was the last convoy-staging point between Montreal and Kingston and a key point for communications between the two cities. The town had been settled in 1789 by Joel Stone, an American Loyalist who had arrived in Upper Canada following the American Revolutionary War. On 9 August 1812, General Sir George Prévost, commander of British forces in Canada and Major General Henry Dearborn commander of the United States forces in the north agree to a cessation of hostilities. President James Madison repudiated Dearborn's agreement on 15 August.\n\nThe American garrison at Sackets Harbor, New York under the command of Brigadier General Jacob Brown of the New York Militia was suffering from lack of supply. Brown himself had purchased blankets for his men. The garrison was reinforced by a company of the US Regiment of Riflemen on 14 September, but the reinforcements lacked ammunition. Finding no support from his superiors, Brown authorized a raid on Canadian territory to acquire supplies and ammunition following the termination of the armistice. Based on the intelligence that Brown had, Gananoque was lightly defended.\n\nBrown ordered the attack on Gananoque to be led by Captain Benjamin Forsyth of the Regiment of Riflemen. He was to take his company of 90 men and 20 members of the New York Militia under Captain Samuel McNitt and seize stores and ammunition. The force departed from Ogdensburg, New York on 18 September in boats and sailed to Gananoque, arriving on 21 September 1813. Forsyth landed his men west of Gananoque at Sheriff's Point and moved towards the town. The Americans surprised the 2nd Regiment of the Leeds Militia under the command of Colonel Joel Stone. The American force was spotted by two British dragoons approaching the town and upon their arrival were met by 100 Leeds Militia under the command of Lieutenant Levi Soper which began firing. Forsyth moved his force to within of the Leeds Militia, and opened fire. He then ordered a charge, which drove the British militia back over a bridge. Forsyth's troops entered Gananoque and commandeered 3,000 ball cartridges and 41 muskets, while destroying 150 barrels of provisions, ransacking the storehouse and destroying the home of Colonel Stone. The Americans had one killed and ten wounded, while the British suffered eight killed, eight taken as prisoners of war and others wounded, including Colonel Stone's wife. Thirty minutes after landing, the Americans returned to their boats with their plunder and set off for Ogdensburg.\n\nA British party was sent to intercept Forsyth but failed to locate his force. The British party then landed at Burton's Point and burned a blockhouse and several boats before returning to Canada. Forsyth relocated his command to Ogdensburg and on 7 February 1813, raided again across the border, this time at Elizabethtown. The British replied with their own raid on Ogdensburg. The British acknowledged the threat to their supply lines and began transporting their equipment and troops in escorted convoys. Construction of a blockhouse began at Ganonoque in January 1813 and was finished later in the year.\n\nTo mark the site, an Ontario provincial plaque was installed on the grounds of the Gananoque Power Company.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2290884", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2290884", "title": "Nile TV International", "text": "Nile TV International\n\nNile TV International is a public Egyptian television channel. It is the second Egyptian satellite television news network in Egypt, and the first Arab satellite channel to broadcast its programs in foreign languages; English, French, and formerly Hebrew.\n\nNile TV International is broadcast on four satellites, allowing for its transmission to reach the whole Arab world, the Middle East, Europe, and the United States. Moreover, it is also broadcast as a terrestrial channel on the UHF band.\n\nIn July 2009, Nile TV International became formally part of the News Center of the Egyptian Radio and Television Union (ERTU), headed by Abdel-Latif el-Menawy.\n\nThere used to be a two-hour daily Hebrew service. The broadcast could be viewed outside of Egyptian borders from 6:00 PM CAT to 8:00 PM CAT, and aimed to represent a pan-Arab view.\n\nThe channel's current president is Sameh Ragaee, who was previously the president of Al-Nile Al-Akhbar (Nile News) Channel. He took the post in 2014. The former president, Dr. Mervat Mohsen, had to resign because of a mistake caused by the shift supervisor, who broadcast a documentary on former Egyptian president Mohamed Morsi.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nIn Ramadan 2009, the channel embarked on a daily two-hour talk show which aired from downtown Azhar park. \"Egyptian Nights\" aired 30 episodes and included several high-profile guests and extensive reporting.\n\n"}
{"id": "2290897", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2290897", "title": "Mövenpick Hotels &amp; Resorts", "text": "Mövenpick Hotels &amp; Resorts\n\nMövenpick Hotels & Resorts (; ) is a Swiss hotel management company headquartered in Baar, Switzerland. It is fully owned by AccorHotels since the September 2018 acquisition from former shareholders Mövenpick Holding (66.7%) and the Saudi-based Kingdom Group (33.3%). It operates over 80 properties, including hotels, resorts and Nile cruisers, with another 30 resorts planned or under construction across the Middle East and Asia.\n\nThe hotel chain serves 5.8 million people per year.\n\nOlivier Chavy took up the position of CEO in September 2016.\n\nMövenpick Hotels & Resorts traces its roots back to the privately owned Mövenpick Group, which was founded by the late Ueli Prager in 1948 when he opened his first restaurant in Zurich. The name was apparently inspired by the feeding action of a gull (in German, a Möwe) and how its simple movements reflected the restaurant’s theme of food served as quickly as possible.\n\nThe official launch of Mövenpick Hotels & Resorts was marked by the opening of two hotels at Zurich Airport and Zurich-Regensdorf. Expansion beyond Europe started in 1976 with the opening in Cairo of the Mövenpick Hotel Jolie Ville. Mövenpick Hotels & Resorts were among the first companies to operate hotels under management contracts, which helped allow rapid growth. Expansion continued through the 1980s into Egypt, with the chain’s first cruise ship (HS Radamis) beginning operations in 1991.\n\nAlwaleed bought 27 percent of the chain in 1997, increasing that to 33 percent in 2003.\nNew expansions into Africa and the Middle East saw “pilgrim hotels” opened in Madinah in Saudi Arabia, and a period of hotel renovation and portfolio consolidation began. Rapid expansion continued through the early 2000s. In 2003, Mövenpick was named the “fastest growing hotel chain in the Middle East” by The World Travel Market.\n\nA strategic partnership with Green Globe was announced in 2010, beginning a drive towards sustainability with a specific focus on the travel and tourism industry across all Mövenpick Hotels & Resorts properties.\n\nCertification and awards accompany further expansion into India, the Philippines, Singapore, and Ghana (2011). New hotels opened in China in 2013, and Pakistan in 2014, and Bangladesh in 2015.\n\nAs of 2015, Mövenpick Hotels & Resorts has 56 properties that are Green Globe certified: the highest number of certifications currently attained by any one hotel company.\n\nIn January 2014, Mövenpick took over the Sheraton Karachi for a fifteen-year period. On October 8, 2015, Mövenpick announced its second property in Pakistan, after a contract to take over The Centaurus Hotel by early 2018.\nToronto-based company Richtree Inc. attempted to introduce Mövenpick to the American market, but lost $14.9 million in the 1999–2000 financial year. Of this amount, they paid $9.9 million in broken lease fees and restructuring costs. The fees were in relation to changed plans for establishing restaurants in New York and San Diego. Richtree sued Mövenpick Holding AG.\n\nAccorHotels announced in April 2018 that it signed an agreement with Mövenpick Holding and the Kingdom Holding to acquire the hotel group for CHF 560 million (EUR 482 million). The acquisition was completed in September 2018.\n"}
{"id": "2290898", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2290898", "title": "Illinois Route 255", "text": "Illinois Route 255\n\nIllinois Route 255 (IL 255), also referred to as the Alton Bypass, is a northwesterly extension of Interstate 255 (I-255) in southwestern Illinois in the St. Louis metropolitan area. IL 255 starts at I-270 in Pontoon Beach and ends at U.S. Route 67 (US 67) in Godfrey, at a total length of approximately . It was constructed in four segments opening from 1998 to 2012 at a total cost of $165.2 million.\n\nIL 255 is a four-lane, limited-access freeway for its entire length. It serves as an important circumferential artery for the northeastern portion of the St. Louis metropolitan area. The final segment— from Seminary Road to US 67 in Godfrey, just north of the intersection of US 67 and Montclaire Avenue (IL 267/IL 111)—was opened on November 23, 2012. The highway passes just to the west of the St. Louis Regional Airport and Southern Illinois University Edwardsville.\n\nAlthough IL 255 was designed to federal Interstate Highway standards, it was built by the Illinois Department of Transportation (IDOT) using state-provided funds.\n\nDescribed as \"the Road to Prosperity\" by business leaders and government officials who initially proposed it in the late 1970s, IL 255 was part of a region-wide effort to create a high-speed alternative to US 67 over the Clark Bridge through the city-center of Alton, and to two congested local routes (IL 3 and IL 111) that roughly parallel the IL 255 corridor. Although it was part of the much larger Corridor 413 plan, the local politicians focused mostly on the segment from I-270 to what was then IL 267 north of the Godfrey \"Y\" intersection. At that time, the Berm Highway, the Beltline extension, and the Madison Avenue connector were not built and both IL 3 and IL 111 were over capacity between Alton and I-270. In 1975, a six-month detour related with the closing of the Old Clark Bridge exposed the need for the Alton Bypass along with the other three routes. However, until 1985, the Alton Bypass was a low priority, as other local road projects in the area were considered more important.\n\nThe roadway was constructed in four segments opening from 1998 to 2012 at a total cost of $165.2 million. The first segment, from I-270 to IL 143, was completed in October 1998 at the cost of $40 million (excluding land acquisition). The second segment, a extension from IL 143 to Fosterburg Road was constructed for $78.1 million and opened on October 20, 2006, approximately one year behind schedule, owing to the 2005 collapse of the Wisconsin-based construction company that held the contracts for that portion of the roadway. The $25.1 million third segment opened on August 22, 2008 and extended the road from Fosterburg Road to Seminary Road. The fourth and final segment opened on November 23, 2012 and extended the road from Seminary Road to US 67 in Godfrey, just north of the intersection of US 67 and Montclaire Avenue (IL 267/IL 111) at a cost of $22 million.\n\n"}
{"id": "2290899", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2290899", "title": "Mushin (mental state)", "text": "Mushin (mental state)\n\nMushin in Japanese and Wuxin in Chinese (無心 \"no mind\") is a mental state. Zen and Daoist meditators attempt to reach this state, as well as artists and trained martial artists. They also practice this mental state during everyday activities.\n\nThe term contains the character for negation, \"not\" or \"without\" (無), along with the character for heart-mind (心). The term is shortened from , a Zen expression meaning \"the mind without mind\" and is also referred to as the state of \"no-mindness\". That is, a mind not fixed or occupied by thought or emotion and thus open to everything. It is translated by D.T. Suzuki as \"being free from mind-attachment\". \n\n\"Mushin\" is achieved when a person's mind is free from thoughts of anger, fear, or ego during combat or everyday life. There is an absence of discursive thought and judgment, so the person is totally free to act and react towards an opponent without hesitation and without disturbance from such thoughts. At this point, a person relies not on what they \"think\" should be the next move, but what is their trained natural reaction (or instinct) or what is \"felt\" intuitively. It is not a state of relaxed, near-sleepfulness, however. The mind could be said to be working at a very high speed, but with no intention, plan or direction.\n\nSome masters believe that \"mushin\" is the state where a person finally understands the uselessness of techniques and becomes truly free to move. In fact, those people will no longer even consider themselves as \"fighters\" but merely living beings moving through space.\n\nOn page 84 of his 1979 book Zen in the Martial Arts, Joe Hyams claimed Bruce Lee read the following quote to him, attributed to the legendary Zen master Takuan Sōhō:\n\nThe mind must always be in the state of 'flowing,' for when it stops anywhere that means the flow is interrupted and it is this interruption that is injurious to the well-being of the mind. In the case of the swordsman, it means death.<br> \nWhen the swordsman stands against his opponent, he is not to think of the opponent, nor of himself, nor of his enemy's sword movements. He just stands there with his sword which, forgetful of all technique, is ready only to follow the dictates of the subconscious. The man has effaced himself as the wielder of the sword. When he strikes, it is not the man but the sword in the hand of the man's subconscious that strikes.\n\nHowever, \"mushin\" is not just a state of mind that can be achieved during combat. Many martial artists train to achieve this state of mind during kata so that a flawless execution of moves is learned and may be repeated at any other time. Once \"mushin\" is attained through the practice or study of martial arts (although it can be accomplished through other arts or practices that refine the mind and body), the objective is to then attain this same level of complete awareness in other aspects of the practitioner's life. Dr Robert Akita claims it helps him \"listen to my wife and children more closely...especially when I disagree with them, [and] in my business it has helped when I am faced with difficult decisions...\"\n"}
{"id": "2290906", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2290906", "title": "Blackburne Shilling Gambit", "text": "Blackburne Shilling Gambit\n\nThe Blackburne Shilling Gambit is the name facetiously given to a dubious chess opening, derived from an offshoot of the Italian Game, that begins:\n\nIt is also sometimes referred to as the Kostić Gambit after the Serbian grandmaster Borislav Kostić, who played it in the early 20th century.\nWilhelm Steinitz made the first known mention of this line, noting it in 1895 in the Addenda to his \"Modern Chess Instructor\", Part II. The earliest game with the opening on chessgames.com, Dunlop–Hicks, New Zealand Championship, dates from 1911. Another early game, mentioned by Bill Wall, is Muhlock–Kostić, Cologne, 1912.\n\nThe beginning 4.Nxe5 \"continues to catch victims, including two in successive rounds at Blackpool 1987\".\nBlack's third move is a weak, time-wasting move. Steinitz recommended 4.0-0 or 4.Nxd4 in response. International Master Jeremy Silman writes that White has an advantage after 4.0-0 (Paul Keres gives 4.0-0 d6 5.Nxd4 exd4 6.c3 \"with the better position\".), 4.c3, or 4.Nc3. He recommends as best 4.Nxd4 exd4 5.c3 d5 6.exd5 Qe7+ 7.Kf1 . If 5...dxc3, White has the initiative in the after 6.Nxc3 d6 7.d4 ; if 5...Bc5, Black loses a pawn to 6.Bxf7+ Kxf7 7.Qh5+ (Wolfgang Unzicker).\n\nThe only virtue of 3...Nd4 is that it sets a trap that has ensnared many players. After the natural 4.Nxe5!?, Black wins with 4...Qg5! Now the obvious 5.Nxf7 loses to 5...Qxg2 6.Rf1 Qxe4+ 7.Be2 Nf3, a smothered mate. This trap is what gives the line its name; the great English master Joseph Henry Blackburne reputedly used it to win one shilling per game from café visitors. Wall has questioned this, however, stating that there are no recorded games of Blackburne with the opening.\n\nThe opening is not a true gambit, since White cannot take the pawn on e5 without losing material; however, after 4.Nxe5 Qg5, White can maintain a playable game with 5.Bxf7+! Steinitz wrote that this move, \"followed by castling, is now White's best chance and in some measure a promising one, considering that he has two Pawns and the attack for the piece\". G. Chandler–, Stockbridge 1983, continued 5...Ke7 (5...Kd8 is better) 6.0-0 Qxe5 7.Bxg8 Rxg8 8.c3 Nc6 (Silman analyzes 9...Qf6 10.f4 when \"[w]ith two pawns and an attack for the sacrificed piece, White’s compensation isn’t in doubt\".) 9.d4 ( Keres) Qa5? 10.d5 Ne5? 11.Qh5! Nf7? 12.d6+! (in light of 13.Qxa5). \n\nGraham Burgess writes that 3...Nd4 is also known as the \"Oh my God!\" trap, as for full effect, Black is supposed to make this exclamation, pretending to have accidentally blundered the e-pawn. Burgess condemns this behavior as unethical, and notes that the trap, if avoided, leaves White with a large advantage.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2290909", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2290909", "title": "Obote", "text": "Obote\n\nObote may refer to:\n"}
{"id": "2290911", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2290911", "title": "7-Eleven (cycling team)", "text": "7-Eleven (cycling team)\n\nThe 7-Eleven Cycling Team, later the Motorola Cycling Team, was a professional cycling team founded in the U.S. in 1981 by Jim Ochowicz, a former U.S. Olympic cyclist. The team lasted 16 years, under the sponsorship of 7-Eleven through 1990 and then Motorola from 1990 through 1996. From 1989 to 1996 it rode on Eddy Merckx bikes.\n\n7-Eleven was formed as an amateur cycling team in 1981 by Ochowicz, a 29-year-old former Olympic cyclist from the U.S., who was married to Olympic speed skating gold medalist Sheila Young. Ochowicz had managed the U.S. national speed-skating team and was friends with Eric and Beth Heiden, who were both excellent cyclists as well as champion speed skaters. He managed to get sponsorship from the Southland Corporation, owners of the 7-Eleven convenience-store chain, and bicycle manufacturer Schwinn to form an amateur team. Of the seven men on the inaugural 7-Eleven-Schwinn team racing in 1981, Eric Heiden (who swept the gold medals in speed skating in the 1980 Winter Olympics) was the captain and the best known. The other Americans were Jeff Bradley, Greg Demgen, Bradley Davies, Tom Schuler, Danny Van Haute and Roger Young (Ochowicz's brother-in-law). They were joined by Canadian Ron Hayman. Although Schwinn dropped out as a co-sponsor in 1982, 7-Eleven added a women's team with Rebecca Twigg, among others, as well as more male riders, including Davis Phinney, Ron Kiefel and Canadian Alex Stieda. The all-amateur 7-Eleven team was featured in the 1985 movie \"American Flyers\", starring Kevin Costner. The 1986 Cycling Media Guide published for the 1986 World Championships lists Jeff Bradley, Chris Carmichael, Alexi Grewal, Eric Heiden, Ron Kiefel, Davis Phinney, Bob Roll, Tom Schuler, Doug Shapiro and Alex Stieda with an additional group of amateur men on the team including Frankie Andreu, Curt Harnett, David Lettieri, Robert Mathis, Leonard \"Harvey\" Nitz and Russell Scott.\n\nSouthland continued its commitment by sponsoring the cycling venue at the 1984 Summer Olympics in Los Angeles, where nine Americans won cycling medals. The other (especially equipment) sponsors of the team included Descente, Huffy, Campagnolo, and Tag Heuer. Often, those sponsors elected not to continue after their initial contracts were completed.\n\nIn 1985, Ochowitz changed the men's team's status to professional. The team went to Europe with an initial roster of members including Olympic gold medalists Alexi Grewal and Heiden, Olympic bronze medalists Phinney and Kiefel, Bradley, Schuler, Hayman, Stieda, and Chris Carmichael. When the team received an invitation to the 1985 Giro d'Italia, one of the Grand Tours of Europe, a young American cyclist based in Europe named Andrew Hampsten was added to the team under a 30-day contract for the race. After both Kiefel and Hampsten stunningly won stages during the Giro, becoming the first American stage winners ever at a Grand Tour, 7-Eleven was invited to the 1986 Tour de France and became one of the major cycling teams for the next decade, under the sponsorship of Southland through 1990 and then Motorola through 1996. Ochowicz disbanded the team after the 1996 season, when Motorola decided to discontinue sponsorship.\n\nWhile it was not the first professional cycling team in the U.S., 7-Eleven was responsible for an overall increase in bike racing interest in the U.S. The team claimed a win in a Grand Tour, when Andrew Hampsten won the general classification as well as the mountains classification at the 1988 Giro d'Italia (Tour of Italy). It also claimed a handful of world championship medals and US championships, as well as Tour de France and Giro stage wins and one more Grand Tour podium (Hampsten's third in the 1989 Giro d'Italia). It was the second U.S. team to ride the Giro d'Italia (1985) (the Gianni Motta team was the first in 1984) and in the Tour de France (1986), where two Canadian riders on the team held the yellow jersey on different occasions (Alex Stieda in 1986 and Steve Bauer in 1990). Its Tour de France stage winners included Phinney, Jeff Pierce, Hampsten, Sean Yates and Dag Otto Lauritzen from Norway. In 1989 Brian Walton won the pro-am Milk Race (Tour of Britain).\nAs of 2009, Team 7-Eleven is the only cycling team to have been inducted into the United States Bicycling Hall of Fame.\n\nThree bike manufacturers sponsored the team throughout the years: Schwinn from 1981 to 1984, Murray from 1985 to 1986, Huffy from 1987 to 1988, although the team bikes from 1985 to 1988 were primarily built by Ben Serotta. Finally Eddy Merckx sponsored the team from 1989 through their ultimate cessation in 1996. For Eddy Merckx, sponsoring the American team had a special meaning. Eddy Merckx said:\n\nDuring Motorola's sponsorship of the team in the 1990s, the riders began communicating with the team cars through the use of two-way radios built by Motorola. The radios were slowly adopted through the rest of the professional peloton, becoming standard equipment by 2002. Acceptance of these radios was hastened by the success in the Tour de France of former Motorola rider Lance Armstrong, who continued to use a race radio when he joined the U.S. Postal Service cycling team. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "2290920", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2290920", "title": "Iowa Tribe of Oklahoma", "text": "Iowa Tribe of Oklahoma\n\nThe Iowa Tribe of Oklahoma is one of two Federally recognized tribes for the Iowa people. The other is the Iowa Tribe of Kansas and Nebraska. Traditionally Iowas spoke the Chiwere language, part of the Souian language family. Their own name for their tribe is \"\", meaning, \"grey snow,\" a term inspired by the tribe's traditional winter lodges covered with snow, stained grey from hearth fires.\n\nSince 1985, the tribe has held an annual powwow. It takes place in mid-June south of Perkins, Oklahoma, on Highway 177.\n\nThe Iowa Tribe of Oklahoma is headquartered in Perkins, Oklahoma, and their tribal jurisdictional area is in Lincoln, Logan, Oklahoma, and Payne counties, Oklahoma. Of the 800 enrolled tribal members, over 490 live within the state of Oklahoma. Edgar Kent is the current tribal chairperson.\n\nThe tribe issues its own vehicle tags and operates the Bah-kho-je Housing Authority. They own a truck stop, a gas station, a smoke shop, a bingo hall, an off-track wagering facility, and a casino. The estimated annual economic impact of the Iowa Tribe of Oklahoma was $10,343,000 in 2011. The tribe operates the Cimarron Casino in Perkins, the Iowa Tribe Smokeshop in Coyle, and the Ioway Casino Resort in Chandler.\n\nThe \"Bah-Kho-Je Journal\" is a newspaper published by the tribe for enrolled members. The tribe also owns BKH Solutions, a SBA 8(A) certified company providing trucking, construction, environmental, archaeological, and energy services and consulting. They have their own tribal police department and Tah-Je Do-Weh Che Child Development and Head Start program.\n\nThe tribe owns its own Bah-Kho-Je Gallery that represents Iowa artists, such as Jean Bales (Iowa), David Kaskaske (Iowa-Otoe-Missouri), and Daniel Murray (Iowa/Otoe), as well as artists from related tribes, such as Mars Biggoose (Ponca), Gina Gray (Osage Nation), and others. The gallery was based in Guthrie, Oklahoma, but is now located in the Iowa tribal complex in Perkins.\n\nAn estimated thirty tribal members still speak the Iowa or Chiwere language, a Siouan language. The tribe has offered language classes in the past and is currently providing elders with recording devices to archive language material they feel important to share with the younger generations.\n\nThe Iowa, or Ioway, originated in the Great Lakes region. They are thought, along with the Ho-Chunk, Otoe, and Missouria tribes, to have once been a single tribe. In the 16th century, the Iowa, Otoe, and Missouria broke away from that tribe and moved to the south and west. The first recorded contact between the Iowa and Europeans was in 1676, in Green Bay, Wisconsin, where they lived among the Ho-Chunk people.\n\nTraditionally, Iowa society was divided into two moieties, the Buffalo and the Bear clans, who would govern the tribe on an alternating, semiannual basis.\n\nIn face of European-American encroachment, the Iowa moved east in what is now Iowa and Missouri, but in 1839 the tribe ceded their lands and moved to the Ioway Reservation on the Kansas-Nebraska border. There factionalism broke out between the mixed blood and full blood Iowas. The mixed bloods advocated assimilation, while the full bloods wanted to follow their traditional way of life.\n\nIn the attempt to preserve their traditions, the full blood faction of the Iowa Tribe began moving into Indian Territory in 1878. They were given lands within the Sac and Fox Reservation in 1883. Their collective tribal landholdings were broken up by the Dawes Act and, in 1890, individual land was allotted by the Cherokee Commission to 109 tribal members.\n\nThe Curtis Act of 1898 dismantled tribal government, but the tribe was able to reorganize under the Oklahoma Indian Welfare Act of 1936, as the Iowa Tribe of Oklahoma. They ratified a constitution and by-laws in 1937.\n\nA unique tribal service is the Bah Kho-Je Xla Chi or Grey Snow Eagle House. This eagle aviary was built in January 2006, within the tribe's buffalo preserve. Bah Kho-Je Xla Chi serves both to rehabilitate injured eagles and to house eagles that cannot be released back in the wild. The program works with golden eagles and bald eagles. Located in Perkins, this is the first facility that can house injured eagles in the state of Oklahoma and meets US Fish and Wildlife Service standards.\n\nThe aviary is one of the few in the country is open to the public, and visitors have come from all over the world, including tribal elders from many different Oklahoman Indian tribes. Naturally molted eagle feathers are gathered by the tribe for legally permitted religious use. Victor Roubidoux, an Iowa tribal member, serves as the aviary manager. The tribe is currently raising funds to expand the aviary, since spaces for eagles filled up almost immediately with birds from throughout the United States. The tribe recently added a new flight cage. Says Roubidoux, \"We believe that the eagle is the only animal that has seen the face of the creator and so we honor him with respect and dignity.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2290924", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2290924", "title": "Iowa Tribe of Kansas and Nebraska", "text": "Iowa Tribe of Kansas and Nebraska\n\nThe Iowa Tribe of Kansas and Nebraska is one of two federally recognized tribes of Iowa people. The other is the Iowa Tribe of Oklahoma.\n\nThey hold an annual Indian rodeo and a powwow every September.\n\nThe Iowa Reservation is located in Richardson County in southeastern Nebraska and Brown and Doniphan Counties in northeastern Kansas. It spans of checkerboard lands, alternating between tribal and non-Native ownership.\n\nThe Iowa Tribe of Kansas and Nebraska is headquartered in White Cloud, Kansas. The tribe is governed by a five-member council. The current administration is as follows.\n\n\nThe tribe owns and operates a dairy farm, fuel station, grain processing operation, Casino White Cloud, and the Mahuska Restaurant, located in White Cloud, Kansas.\n\nThe Iowa originally lived near the Great Lakes. In the 17th century, Iowa people lived in northern Iowa and southern Minnesota. During the 1820s and 1830s, the tribe signed numerous treaties with the US federal government and were assigned a reservation near the Great Nemaha River near the Kansas–Nebraska border in 1836.\n\nIn the 1870s, the tribe split into two groups, and the Southern Ioway moved to Indian Territory, while the Northern Ioway remained in Kansas and Nebraska. They ratified their constitution and by-laws on February 26, 1937.\n\nDuring the period from the 1940s to the 1960s, in which the Indian termination policy was enforced, four Kansas tribes, including the Iowa, were targeted for termination. One of the first pieces of legislation enacted during this period was the Kansas Act of 1940 which transferred all jurisdiction for crimes committed on or against Indians from federal jurisdiction to the State of Kansas. It did not preclude the federal government from trying Native people, but it allowed the state into an area of law in which had historically belonged only to the federal government.\n\nOn 1 August 1953, the US Congress passed House Concurrent Resolution 108 which called for the immediate termination of the Flathead, Klamath, Menominee, Potawatomi, and Turtle Mountain Chippewa, as well as all tribes in the states of California, New York, Florida, and Texas. Termination of a tribe meant the immediate withdrawal of all federal aid, services, and protection, as well as the end of reservations. A memo issued by the Department of the Interior on 21 January 1954 clarified that the reference to \"Potawatomi\" in the Resolution meant the Potawatomi, the Kickapoo, the Sac and Fox, and the Iowa Tribe of Kansas and Nebraska tribes in Kansas.\n\nBecause jurisdiction over criminal matters had already been transferred to the State of Kansas by the passage of the Kansas Act of 1940, the government targeted the four tribes in Kansas for immediate termination. In February 1954, joint hearings for the Kansas tribes were held by the House and Senate Subcommittees on Indian Affairs.\n\nThe Prairie Band of Potawatomi Nation tribal leader, Minnie Wishkeno Evans (Indian name: Ke-wat-no-quah) led the effort to stop termination. Tribal members sent petitions of protest to the government and multiple delegations went to testify at congressional meetings in Washington, DC. Tribal Council members Vestana Cadue, Oliver Kahbeah, and Ralph Simon of the Kickapoo Tribe in Kansas traveled at their own expense to testify as well. The strong opposition from the Potawatomi and Kickapoo tribes helped them, as well as the Sac and Fox and the Iowa Tribe, avoid termination.\n\nIn March 2016, the Iowa Tribe of Kansas and Nebraska filed a motion to consult with the Iowa Utilities Board (IUB) regarding their permit for Dakota Energy to build the Bakken pipeline, which will run through the tribe's ancestral lands. The IUB tentatively denied this motion.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2290925", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2290925", "title": "Hot-wire foam cutter", "text": "Hot-wire foam cutter\n\nA hot-wire foam cutter is a tool used to cut polystyrene foam and similar materials. The device consists of a thin, taut metal wire, often made of nichrome or stainless steel, or a thicker wire preformed into a desired shape, which is heated via electrical resistance to approximately . As the wire is passed through the material to be cut, the heat from the wire vaporises the material just in advance of contact. \n\nThe depth of the cut is limited only by the wire length. Width of cut is limited by throat, if any.\n\n\nAll thermofusible expanded foams. This means those materials that melt at a relatively low temperature:\n\nA preformed wire is attached to a handle. The operator manually guides the wire through the foam to cut freeform shapes.\n\nA short tensioned wire is attached to a handle. The operator manually guides the wire through the foam to cut freeform shapes.\n\nHot wire foam cutting tables can use a vertical or a horizontal wire, usually with a horizontal table used as a guide or for securing the foam work piece. \n\nA table with a vertical wire is mainly used by hobbyists to cut small and complex shapes such as letters. Only prismatic members can be cut on this type of table.\n\nTables with horizontal wires are heavily used in construction and packaging. The cutting wire is attached to tracks on either side of the table enabling it to be moved up and down making cuts very exact. This table type can also perform angular cuts.\n\nA horizontal-wire manual table that uses templates placed on each side of a foam block to guide a taut hot wire to form a prismatic or tapered shape. The hot wire, tensioned with a bow or by springs attached to a rigid frame, can be propelled through the foam by hand or with a cord and pulley mechanism connecting each end of the hot wire to a weight. This method is widely employed by hobbyists to produce foam cores for model airplane wings.\n\nTemplate-guided cutter accuracy is highly dependent on operator skill at fixturing the foam and guiding the hot wire along the templates. Accuracy is also affected by the precision to which the templates are formed and proper assessment and handling of kerf. \n\nA vertical or near horizontal frame contains a set of evenly spaced parallel tensioned cutting wires. Massive blocks of foam are pushed through the frame on rollers or by gravity, thus slicing them into sheets that are sold as \"bead-boards\" for general use in construction work etc. The blocks are guided so little skill is needed by the operator. The frame holding the wires is often a replaceable and or adjustable unit so the spacing can be changed.\n\nThis allows a range of plate thicknesses and sizes to be produced without the cost of expensive molds for each size, as the blocks are made in standard \"block form\" machines that produce blocks of industry standard sizes (such as 0.5 x 1 x 2 m). To produce plates shorter than the usual length of the massive blocks, the blocks are simply pre-cut to the desired length before slicing. This method is a common way of making the EPS (Styrofoam/Styropor) sheets used in construction. \n\nComputer numerical controlled (CNC) stages on each side of a block of foam guide a tensioned hot wire to form a prismatic or tapered shape. This is a four degree of freedom CNC system (one each X and Y on each side of the foam block). \n\nAccuracy is affected by the precision of the stepper motors, backlash of drive systems, and stiffness of the races supporting the end effectors which hold the tensioned wire.\n\nSome CNC hot-wire cutters offer lathe attachments, which can be used with either stretched or preformed wire. Lathe attachments allow cutting of spiral shapes, and are often used to create concrete forms for ornamental and structural items, such as planters and stairway balusters and newels.\n\nThe practical limit to the length of a tensioned cutting wire is the tendency of the wire to sag under the force of gravity, which requires higher tension for longer wires. Some CNC cutting machines place the ends of the wire above and below the workpiece, with the wire being mostly vertical, to counter this problem.\n\nCutting speed and wire temperature combine to determine the thickness and consistency of kerf. For a given wire temperature, an attempted motion in excess of the wire's ability to melt the foam can lead to wire drag and poor surface finish of the cut foam. Conversely, dwelling in the foam any longer than strictly required to melt the cut path can lead to excessively thick kerf. A nonuniform feed rate can lead to a kerf of varying thickness.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2290937", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2290937", "title": "California Valley Miwok Tribe", "text": "California Valley Miwok Tribe\n\nThe California Valley Miwok Tribe is a federally recognized tribe of Miwok people in San Joaquin County and Calaveras County, California. They were previously known as the Sheep Ranch Rancheria or the Sheep Ranch Rancheria of Me-Wuk Indian of California. The California Valley Miwok are Sierra Miwok, an indigenous people of California.\n\nThe tribe conducts business from Stockton, California. The current tribal administration is:\n\nAccording to the tribe's website, it is currently governed by a tribal/general council that meets monthly. Officers are elected for six-year terms, with the tribe electing a vice chairperson in 2015 and both a chairperson and a secretary/treasurer in 2017.\n\nMembership of the tribe was very low throughout the 20th century. In 1916, the federal government purchased at Sheep Ranch, California for the benefit of 12 named members of the tribe. They were described by the Indian agent who arranged the purchase as \"the remnant of once quite a large band of Indians in former years living in or near the old decaying mining town known and designated on the map as 'Sheepranch' \". In 1935, the only Indian recorded as living on the ranchería was Jeff Davis. Davis was recorded as voting in favor of the Indian Reorganization Act on June 8, 1912.\n\nBy 1966, Mabel Hodge Dixie was identified as the only adult member of the tribe living on the ranchería. The Bureau of Indian Affairs developed a plan to distribute the tribe's assets to her that year under the 1958 California Rancheria Act, but never declared the tribe terminated or treated it as such. In 1994, Mabel's son Yakima Dixie identified himself as \"the only descendant and ... recognized member of the Tribe.\"\nFrom the late-1990s there was a long-running dispute over the government, membership and status of the California Valley Miwok Tribe. On August 5, 1998, Yakima Dixie accepted Silvia Burley as a member of the tribe, along with her two daughters and granddaughter. Burley provided information tracing her ancestry to Jeff Davis, who had been listed as the only member of the tribe in a 1913 census; she had contacted Dixie at the suggestion of the Bureau of Indian Affairs. At the time of Burley's admission in 1998, the tribe was not \"organized\" as defined by the Indian Reorganization Act, and the BIA recommended that, given its small size, the tribe should form a general council, a simpler structure than formal organization.\n\nA general council of all adult citizens was formed on November 5, 1998, and by late 1999 a dispute had arisen between Burley and Dixie. Between 1999 and 2010, each party appealed to the BIA to support its view and to intervene on the grounds that the other had not involved the \"whole tribal community\" of both enrolled citizens and potentially enrolled citizens. For much of this period, the BIA took the view that it had a duty to intervene in the tribe's affairs on behalf of potentially enrolled citizens of the tribe. In this respect, the BIA became the adjudicator between the claims of the competing parties, determining which decisions were valid and which members constituted the tribe's government. In a December 22, 2010 decision, the BIA completely reversed its opinion, deciding that it had no obligation to represent the interests of potentially enrolled tribe members, and that therefore the BIA was free to wash its hands of involvement. the BIA advised the parties that, \"continuing this imprudent dispute risks potential adverse consequences well beyond the Tribe and its descendants\". The BIA noted that \"it is \"equitably\" appropriate for the CVMT to reach out to potential citizens...\" but that it is not a duty of the federal government to impose this requirement on the tribe. This decision was reaffirmed by Larry Echo Hawk, assistant secretary of Indian Affairs, in a detailed letter to the parties on August 31, 2011.\n\nThe California Gambling Control Commission made distributions to the tribe worth $1.1 million per year from the Indian Gaming Revenue Sharing Trust Fund from July 2000 through August 2005. Following the BIA's intervention in the tribe's affairs, the CGCC decided to cease distributions to the California Valley Miwok Tribe and instead to hold them in trust. In a 2007 letter, the commission told the tribe it would release the funds after the BIA recognized the governing body and the tribe resolved its leadership dispute. However, the funds were not released following the 2011 BIA decision to recognize Burley as the tribe's chair, prompting Burley to sue the commission in state and federal courts. A non-member of the tribe, Chadd Everone, who describes himself as a \"deputy and consul general\" for Yakima Dixie, has countersued to prevent distribution of the funds to Burley's group, contending that Dixie never resigned as chair of the tribe. Court filings by Burley's group claim that Everone is manipulating Dixie and wants to use the gaming distributions \"as security\" to attract outside investors for a project to build a tribal casino. They allege that Everone intends to bring the tribe under his own control with Dixie as a \"puppet\" chair of the tribe.\n\n\n\nEach side in the ongoing dispute over governance has its own web presence. The tribal government run by Burley maintains its presence on LinkedIn and Facebook, with an archive of its former official -nsn.gov site still viewable on the Internet Archive. The current official site is located at californiavalleymiwok.us and an additional informative site at californiavalleymiwoktribe.us. The opposing side (Everone) has a web presence at CaliforniaValleyMiwok.com. Both sites contain both tribal announcements and news releases supporting the legal position of the relevant faction.\n"}
{"id": "2290940", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2290940", "title": "Ione Band of Miwok Indians", "text": "Ione Band of Miwok Indians\n\nThe Ione Band of Miwok Indians is a federally recognized tribe of Miwok people in Amador County, California. As of the 2010 census the population was only 5.\n\nThe Ione Band conducts business from Plymouth, California. The tribe is led by an elected council. The current tribal administration is as follows.\n\nMiwok people lived in over a hundred villages along the Sacramento and San Joaquin Rivers, as well as north of the San Francisco Bay area east into the foothills of the Sierra Nevada. Ione Miwok oral history says the tribe comes from the Buena Vista Peaks, south of Ione, California, when the Sacramento Valley was covered by water.\n\nEuropean contact came in the 19th century, when Spanish explorers descended upon Miwok lands. They enslaved thousands of Indians during the mission system period. Smallpox and other epidemics hit the Miwok between 1820 and 1840, which drastically reduced the Indian population. Before the Spanish first landed on California soil, there were about 22,00 Miwok Indians within the region; today there are about 750.\n\nJohn Sutter built his fort in 1839 and continued enslaving Indians. He raided around Ione. The 1848–50 California Gold Rush brought an onslaught of non-Native people into the region. This massive inflow of people seeking fortune lead to settlers invading their land in the Sierra foothills; many of their hunting and gathering areas were then occupied. This led to extremely violent and even deadly clashes between the immigrants and the Indians.\n\nSpurred by the violence created by the newcomers onto indigenous Californians' lands, the United States federal government negotiated three treaties with the Ione Miwok. The US Congress never ratified the treaties, and the public did not learn about them until 1905. They were pushed off their ancestral lands and denied human rights or protection. This forced the Miwok people into homelessness, forced to develop a new lifestyle with means to survive. Some were able to survive by relocating and uniting with neighboring tribes in the Sierra foothills, which created amalgamated (merged groups of Native Americans) or by working as laborers on ranches.\n\nA 1915 Bureau of Indian Affairs (BIA) census revealed 101 homeless Miwok people living around Ione. These would become the Jackson Rancheria, Buena Vista Rancheria, and Ione Band of Miwok Indians. The US tried and failed to create a 40-acre Indian rancheria for the Ione Miwok. Families settled on the land, and finally in 1972, the land was awarded to 12 individuals and other members of the Ione Miwok, but not collectively to the tribe. Negotiations and legal struggles over land ownership and tribal recognition continued for decades.\n\nIn 1994, Ada Deer wrote that the Ione Band of Miwok Indians was in fact recognized by the federal government. The Ione Miwok elected a tribal council in 1996. They ratified a constitution that was approved by the BIA in 2002 and held another election in 2003.\n\nIn 2012, the BIA approved an application by the tribe to put 228 acres of land in Amador County in trust.\n\nIn 2015, two court cases were settled in favor of the Ione Band of Miwok Indians allowing the 228.04-acre transfer to proceed.\n\nThe Miwok people lived peacefully for thousand of years throughout large portions of Northern and Central California. Originally, they were constituted of three main groups, which included: the Sierra Miwok, Lake Miwok, and Coast Miwok. Traditional territory of their ancestors included the Sierra Nevada foothills and Central California. The languages they have been classified as speaking are the Nisean language. Northern Miwok and Plains Miwok languages have been grouped in the Penutian language family. Most of them still live in Central California today on “Rancherias”, which are similar to reservations. However, some do not live on the Rancherias, but in intertribal communities where there are members of other tribes, while others reside in Northern California towns. Today, the Miwok people speak English, but in the past they spoke their native “Miwok language”, also known as Moquelumnan. Some elders still remember words from the language and younger people also take an interest in learning/speaking their native language again. However, overall, it is an endangered language.\n\nTraditionally, each Miwok band was led by a chief, who was typically a male. In some bands, chiefdom was hereditary and other clans elders would choose who would be the preceding chief. The Miwok tribe was made up of hunters, gatherers, and fishers. Their diets included acorns that could be made into various dishes such as soups, cakes, and bread. They hunted deer, black bear, elk, fowl, and small game such as rabbits, fish or quail. They also collected a number of foods available to them such as buckeye nuts, berries, mushrooms, and other greens. The weapons they used included spears, slings, knives, clubs, and bows and arrows. Their traditional clothing incorporated loincloths woven from grass or bark fibers and animal hides, fur robes, and kilts during the colder seasons for the men. Women traditionally wore front/back aprons created from the shredded willow bark, and their dresses usually were about calf length decorated with ornaments, tassels, shells, and quills. Like the men, they too wore fur robes in the winter and both genders wore moccasins during the cold weather and men would normally be barefoot if warm enough outside. More ceremonial attire consisted of headdresses, flicker headbands, that were made of the longest and narrowest flicker quill wing feathers. The colors were dark pink or yellow and sewn together with darker brown feathers to create the headband that would be tied from the back. Their styles also included body adornments; most of them wore ear and nose embellishments. They also practiced tattooing and developed the white paint from chalk deposits and the black from charcoal. This resulted in the black and white face and body painting that was often applied in horizontal lines. These tattoos and body adornments made the Miwok tribe very unique and distinctive. In the past, the Miwoks lived in tule houses that were usually made up of cone-shaped frames of wooden poles placed over a hold that is dug into the ground. The frame would be covered by mats woven by tule reeds and were kept insulated by packing dirt over it. Today, they live in modern houses/apartments. The children of the Miwok used to have lots of chores and little time to play. Today they commonly go hunting or fishing with their fathers. Back then, a popular game for free time was “shinny”. This is an athletic game much like rugby and lacrosse. The younger children played a “skipping stone” game, which is similar to the game “jacks”. Miwok girls also played with dolls, just like young girls commonly do today. Their culture heavily ties with their sacred ceremonies and beliefs. They commonly prayed and offered thanks to their spirits. They believed everything in the world obtained a spiritual power, such as plants, animals, rocks, and trees. Therefore, they often only took what they needed and did not like to waste anything from their sacred land. They held high respects for animals and showed this through their imitation dances and mythical legends about the animals and their people's connection. \nDancing was very important to them and they performed in many occasions: when giving thanks, celebrating, and also in hopes of curing for the sick as well as prayers for the dead. They had musical instruments that consisted of elderberry flutes, drums, cocoon rattles, clappers, and whistles.\nAs for economics, Coast and Lake Miwok used clamshell beads. They often traveled west to gather marine sources such as clamshells and seaweed.\nToday, the Ione Band is still seeking future establishment of a gambling facility (casino) near Plymouth, California. The Ione Band's casino is in support of the tribe's government operations, programs, and general tribal members with the revenue from the casino. Furthermore, The Ione Band is actively searching for future economic development to help the tribe.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2290944", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2290944", "title": "Shingle Springs Band of Miwok Indians", "text": "Shingle Springs Band of Miwok Indians\n\nThe Shingle Springs Band of Miwok Indians, Shingle Springs Rancheria (Verona Tract), California is a federally recognized tribe of Maidu and Miwok people in El Dorado County, California. The Shingle Springs Miwok are Sierra Miwok, an indigenous people of California. As of the 2010 Census the population was 102.\n\nThe Shingle Springs Band conducts business from Shingle Springs and Sacramento, California. The Tribe is led by an elected council:\n\nShingle Springs Rancheria has a tribal court, which was established in November 2010. The chief judge is Christine Williams\n\nThe Shingle Springs Rancheria () is 160-acre parcel of land, located in El Dorado County. It lies in the heart of Nisenan or southern Maidu territory and was purchased by the US Federal Government on 16 December 1916 on behalf of the Sacramento-Verona Band of Miwok Indians. Nearby communities are Shingle Springs and Diamond Springs.\n\nOn June 14, 2013, Rep. Tom McClintock introduced into the United States House of Representatives the bill To authorize the Secretary of the Interior to take certain Federal lands located in El Dorado County, California, into trust for the benefit of the Shingle Springs Band of Miwok Indians (H.R. 2388; 113th Congress). The bill would take specified federal land in El Dorado County, California, into trust for the Shingle Springs Band of Miwok Indians. The United States Secretary of the Interior would be responsible for carrying this out. The United States Department of the Interior provided the following background information about the situation when it testified about the bill before the Subcommittee on Indian and Alaska Native Affairs of the House Natural Resources Committee: \"On December 16, 1916, the Secretary of the Interior purchased the 160-acre Shingle Springs Rancheria east of Sacramento in El Dorado County, California at the request of the Sacramento-Verona Band of Miwok Indians. Today's members of the Shingle Springs Rancheria are descendants of the Miwok and Maidu Indians who once lived in this region. Currently, there are approximately 500 enrolled members of the Tribe, with about 140 living on the Rancheria.The tribe has expressed an interest in expanding the Rancheria by adding adjacent BLM-managed lands for improved access and additional residential housing for the tribe.\"\n\nThe tribe offers all members Nisenan language courses on Weednesdays.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2290949", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2290949", "title": "Orbiter (comics)", "text": "Orbiter (comics)\n\nOrbiter is a graphic novel by Warren Ellis and Colleen Doran, published in 2003 by DC Comics under their Vertigo imprint.\n\nEllis and Doran, both spaceflight enthusiasts, dedicated \"Orbiter\" to the \"lives, memories and legacies\" of the astronauts who died in the 2003 Columbia disaster.\n\nTen years after the space shuttle \"Venture\" mysteriously disappeared, it returns. Of its original crew of seven, only one remains — and he is catatonic; also, there is sand from Mars in the shuttle's landing gear. Three scientists investigate the \"Venture\" and its occupant, to find out what happened.\nPublishers Weekly compared \"Orbiter\"'s narrative structure to Ellis's earlier work \"Planetary\", and commended Ellis for giving the story \"emotional depth\". Claude Lalumiere praised \"Orbiter\" for its \"sincerity, its passionate engagement, and the bold inventiveness of its ideas\", but overall considered that the plot moved too smoothly, with insufficient conflict; he also criticized Doran's portrayal of emotion. IGN's Hilary Goldstein concluded that the book \"isn't for everyone\", but emphasized its appeal to \"dreamers and space cadets\". \n\nThe graphic novel was first published as a hardcover by Vertigo in April 2003 () and as a softcover by Little Brown in May 2004 (). Titan Books published a British softcover in June 2004 ()\n\n"}
{"id": "2290951", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2290951", "title": "Crooked Fingers (album)", "text": "Crooked Fingers (album)\n\nCrooked Fingers is the first album by the indie rock band Crooked Fingers. It was released on January 18, 2000, via WARM Records. It was recorded by Eric Bachmann in Seattle, WA, at Ft. Lawton and Denise Maupin's.\n\n"}
{"id": "2290963", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2290963", "title": "Crowsnest Mountain", "text": "Crowsnest Mountain\n\nCrowsnest Mountain is a scenic mountain in the southern Canadian Rockies of southwestern Alberta, Canada. It can be seen from Alberta Highway 3 west of the town of Coleman in the Crowsnest Pass. The mountain was originally named by the Cree First Nations due to the ravens that nested in the area. The scrambling route on the north side was first ascended in 1915.\n\nThe grey rocks exposed in the cliffs on the upper part of Crowsnest Mountain are limestones and shales of Late Devonian to Early Mississippian age (the Palliser at the base, overlain by the Exshaw and Banff, with the Livingstone Formation at the summit). They were moved up from the west along the Lewis thrust fault and emplaced over younger rocks (the Late Cretaceous Belly River Formation) that underlie the wooded lower slopes of the mountain. During that movement they were formed into a broad syncline by fault-bend folding.\n\nThe Devonian to Mississippian rocks are part of the Lewis thrust sheet which was originally continuous from the High Rock Range immediately to the west. The thrust sheet has since been cut through by erosion along Allison Creek, however, leaving Crowsnest Mountain and its northerly neighbour, Seven Sisters Mountain, standing together as an isolated klippe.\n"}
{"id": "2290967", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2290967", "title": "John R. Steel", "text": "John R. Steel\n\nJohn Robert Steel (born October 30, 1948) is an American set theorist at University of California, Berkeley (formerly at UCLA). He has made many contributions to the theory of inner models and determinacy. With Donald A. Martin, he proved projective determinacy, assuming the existence of sufficient large cardinals. He earned his Ph.D. in Logic & the Methodology of Science at Berkeley in 1977 under the joint supervision of John West Addison, Jr. and Stephen G. Simpson.\n\nIn 2015 the European Set Theory Society awarded him and Ronald Jensen the for their paper \"K without the measurable\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2290975", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2290975", "title": "Mario Rodríguez Cervantes", "text": "Mario Rodríguez Cervantes\n\nMario Rodríguez Cervantes (born January 18, 1978) is a former Mexican association football player. , he played for Lobos BUAP as a goalkeeper. During a game against Chivas Guadalajara and C.F. Pachuca he passed the ball to the opposite team and they ended up making goals from Gonzalo Pineda and from Christian Gimenez. Since these incidents he has been working hard to recover his form to be in the starting line-up.\n\nAfter Jose de Jesus Corona was sold to Cruz Azul, Mario became the starting goalkeeper for Estudiantes Tecos for the start of Apertura 2009.\n\nThe InterLiga 2008, so far for Mario Rodriguez has been great having gotten three Clean Sheets in all three games he has played, and he was back in form to be the First-Choice Goalkeeper of Club Atlas. Unfortunately, with the purchase of Uruguay goalkeeper Jorge Bava, he has been relegated to the bench.\n"}
{"id": "2290989", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2290989", "title": "Chameria", "text": "Chameria\n\nChameria (; , \"Tsamouriá\"; ; or \"Chamuria\") is a term used today mostly by Albanians for parts of the coastal region of Epirus in southern Albania and the historical Greek region of Epirus, traditionally associated with an Albanian speaking population called Chams. Apart from geographical usages, in contemporary times within Albania the toponym has also acquired irredentist connotations. During the interwar period, the toponym was in common use and the official name of the area above the Acheron river in all Greek state documents. Today it is obsolete in Greek, surviving in some old folk songs. Most of what is called \"Chameria\" is divided between the Greek regional units of Thesprotia and Preveza, the southern extremity of Albania's Sarandë District and some villages in eastern Ioannina regional unit. As the Greek toponyms \"Epirus\" and \"Thesprotia\" have been established for the region since antiquity, and given the negative sentiments towards Albanian irredentism, the term is not used by the locals on the Greek side of the border.\n\nChameria has been a member state of the Unrepresented Nations and Peoples Organization (UNPO) since 2015.\n\nIn the Middle Ages this area was known as Vagenetia.\n\n\"Chameria\" was mostly used as a term for the region of modern Thesprotia, during the Ottoman rule. It is of uncertain etymology. It possibly derives from the ancient Greek name of the Thyamis river, called Cham (\"Çam\") in Albanian, through the unattested Slavic *čamь or *čama rendering the older Slavic *tjama. \n\nIn European travel reports, the term appears for the first time at the beginning of the 19th century. The term was not used in Ottoman territorial administration before the 20th century.\n\nIn modern times, the region of Chameria was reduced to the dialectological territory of the Chams, stretching between the mouth of the Acheron river in the south, the area of Butrint in the north, and the Pindus in the east. After the permanent demarcation of the Greco-Albanian border, only two small municipalities were left in southern Albania (Markat and Konispol), while the remainder was part of the Epirus periphery of Greece.\n\nThe early 19th c. Greek author Perraivos, notable for his works on Souli and Epirus, notes that the Albanian Chams inhabit the area between the Bistrica river in the north and the Souli area south. French diplomat and General Consul of France in nearby Ioannina, François Pouqueville, noticed in 1814-1816 that there is a district named \"Chamouri\" that stretches from the Thyamis all the way down to the Acheron river. In the early 1800s British colonel William Martin Leake while in the area described Chameria as stretching from the boundaries of Butrint and Delvinë until the Fanari and Paramythia areas consisting of two main sub-districts, \"Daghawi\" or \"Dai\" and \"Parakalamos\". During the 19th century, the novelista and poet Nikolaos Konemenos, an Arvanite from the area placed his home district of Lakka (Λάκκας) within the bounds of Tsamouria (Τσαμουριά) or Chameria. In the early 1880s, British diplomat Valentine Chirol who spent time in the area during the Eastern Crisis defined Chameria along linguistic lines in geographic terms where Albanian speakers were found during that time. Chirol states that the Thiamis river basin, the Souli mountains, the Louros river valley up until the Preveza peninsula formed part of the district called \"Tchamouria\" which referred to the \"southernmost Albanian settlements in Epirus\". Chirol also noted that due to the spread of the Chams in the area, the toponym also applied to the centre of the region where they held \"undivided sway\".\n\nWithin the confines of the Ottoman administrative system (1880s) Albanians of the time claimed that Toskland () was made up of three components \"Toskalık\", \"Laplık\" and \"Çamlık\". According to the Ottoman administration of 1880s \"Çamlık\" or Chamland (Chameria) consisted of the regions Margalic, Aydonat and Filat. As such those three kazas where also known as kaza of Chameria. Similarly in 1910 the kaza of Resadiye was created, also known as kaza of Chameria or Igoumenitsa and included the former kazas of Paramythia, Margariti and Filiates. On the other hand, Sami Frashëri, a noted member of the Albanian national movement and Ottoman intellectual who compiled the first Ottoman dictionary \"Kamus al-a'lam\" (Universal Dictionary of History and Geography) wrote in various article entries pertaining to the region and claimed that Chameria included: Ioannina, Konitsa, Louros, Parga, Margariti, Filiates, Preveza. Thus claiming that Chameria was a much larger region and coincided with the southern part of Epirus.\n\nDuring the interwar period of the twentieth century British historian Nicholas Hammond traversed the region and described Chameria as consisting of main settlements like Paramythia and Margariti. He also described the Chameria region as pertaining to the Thiamis river basin, covering the Margariti district and heading all the way down to coastal villages like Loutsa of the Acheron plain, which marked the most southernmost Albanian speaking settlement and the southern limit of Chameria. Pre-War Greek sources say that the coast of Chameria extended from the Acheron River to Butrint and the inland reaches east till the slopes of Mount Olytsikas (or Tomaros). The center of Chameria was considered to be Paramythia and other areas were Filiates, Parga and Margariti. In various Greek sources of the interwar era they also at times include the Greek speaking area to the east of Filiates within Chameria, while excluding the Albanian speaking area of Fanari known also as \"Prevezaniko\". Throughout the interwar period, Chameria in official Greek government documents related to the area north of the Acheron river.\n\nModern day scholarship gives descriptions of the geographical outlines or areas of Chameria. Professors of History, Eleftheria Manta, Kyriakos Kentriotis and Dimitris Michalooulos agree that Chameria extends from the Acheron River to Butrint and the inland reaches east till the slopes of Mount Olytsikas. This region, besides a small part that belongs to the Albanian state is more or less equated with Thesprotia. Leonidas Kallivretakis states that the Greek part of the Chameria region is limited to Thesprotia prefecture, both in Ottoman and modern times. Similarly, historian Georgia Kretsi states that Chameria concerns the same region which is today called Thesprotia among Greeks, in addition to a small number of settlements on the Albanian side of the border. Lambros Baltsiotis states that it includes a small part of Albanian territory, consisted of the western part of Thesprotia prefecture and north of Preveza regional unit (former Preveza prefecture), stretching down to Fanari. German historian Hermann Frank Meyer states that the modern Thesprotia prefecture geographically coincides with Chameria. Laurie Kain Hart states that Chameria as a district extends to \"Epiros at least as far south as Preveza\". Historian Konstantinos Tsitselikis states that Chameria is part of Margariti, Igoumenitsa, Filiates and Paramythia regions. Albanian historian Sherif Delvina claims that the southernmost limit of Chameria is the Acheron river.\n\nJames Pettifer and Miranda Vickers state that Chameria reaches out from the Ionian coast going to the eastern Ioannina mountains and extending to the south going as near as the Preveza gulf. However, in another work Miranda Vickers states that it \"extends from Butrint and the mouth of the Acheron River\", but at the same time also from \"Lake Prespa in the north, eastward to the Pindus mountains and south as far as Preveza and the Gulf of Arta\". Robert Elsie states that Chameria corresponds to Thesprotia and Preveza prefectures and including a small area around Konispol town in Albania. Elsie describes Chameria as containing the river basins of the Thiamis and Acheron rivers and Ionian coastline all the way down to Preveza while excluding Corfu island, the Epirote interior and the city of Ioannina. In the same work Elsie states that Thesprotia is the Greek toponymic equivalent for the Albanian toponym Chameria.\n\nLate Mycenean sites have been found in the following areas of Chameria:\n\nThere are numerous archeological sites from Iron Age (10th to 7th centuries) onwards. In Thesprotia, which can be considered the centre of Chameria, excavations have brought to light finds of this period in the Kokytos valley. The Nekromanteion of Acheron is probably the most important site of the area in antiquity, mentioned already in Homer. Archaeological finds indicate that a sanctuary existed there by the 7th century BC. It seems that it ceased to function as an oracle in the Roman period. Other important settlements are Ephyra, Buthrotum, the Cheimerion (5 km west of Ephyra), Photike (some identify it with Paramythia), the port of Sybota, the city of Thesprotia, the port city of Elea (in the region of Thesprotia) which is believed to be a Corinthian colony, Pandosia, a colony of Elis, Tarone, near the mouth of river Thyamis, and others, depending on the definition of Chameria.\n\nIn Medieval Ages the region was under the jurisdiction of the Roman and later Byzantine Empire. In 1205, Michael Komnenos Doukas, a cousin of the Byzantine emperors Isaac II Angelos and Alexios III Angelos, founded the Despotate of Epiros, which ruled the region until the 15th century. Vagenetia (Thesprotia) as the whole of Epirus soon became the new home of many Greek refugees from Constantinople, Thessaly, and the Peloponnese, and Michael was described as a second Noah, rescuing men from the Latin flood. During this time, the earliest mention of Albanians within the region of Epirus is recorded in a Venetian document of 1210 as inhabiting the area opposite the island of Corfu, however any pre-14th century Albanian migration in the region can not be confirmed. The first documented appearance of Albanians which occurred in sizable numbers within the Despotate of Epirus is not recorded before 1337 in which Byzantine sources present them as nomads.\n\nIn the 1340s, taking advantage of a Byzantine civil war, the Serbian King Stefan Uroš IV Dušan conquered Epirus and incorporated it in his Serbian Empire. During this time, two Albanian states were formed in the region. In the summer of 1358, Nikephoros II Orsini, the last despot of Epirus of the Orsini dynasty, was defeated in battle against Albanian chieftains. Following the approval of the Serbian Tsar, these chieftains established two new states in the region, the Despotate of Arta and Principality of Gjirokastër. Internal dissension and successive conflicts with their neighbours, including the rising power of the Ottoman Turks, led to the downfall of these Albanian principalities to the Tocco family. The Tocco in turn gradually gave way to the Ottomans, who took Ioannina in 1430, Arta in 1449, Angelokastron in 1460, and finally Vonitsa in 1479.\n\nDuring the Ottoman rule, the region was under the Vilayet of Ioannina, and later under the Pashalik of Yanina. During this time, the region was known as Chameria (also spelled \"Tsamouria\", \"Tzamouria\") and became a district in the Vilayet of Yanina. The wars of the eighteenth and early nineteenth centuries between Russia and the Ottoman Empire negatively impacted upon the region. Increased conversions to Islam followed, often forced, such as those of 25 villages in 1739 which are located in current day Thesprotia prefecture.\n\nIn the 18th century, as the power of the Ottomans declined, the region came under the semi-independent state of Ali Pasha Tepelena, an Albanian brigand who became the provincial governor of Ioannina in 1788. Ali Pasha started campaigns to subjugate the confederation of the Souli settlements in this region. His forces met fierce resistance by the Souliote warriors. After numerous failed attempts to defeat the Souliotes, his troops succeeded in conquering the area in 1803.\n\nAfter the fall of the Pashalik, the region remained under the control of the Ottoman Empire, while Greece and Albania declared that their goal was to include in their states the whole region of Epirus, including Thesprotia or Chameria. With the rise of the Albanian national movement in the late 19th century, the local Orthodox Albanian speaking population did not share the national ideas of their Muslim Albanian speaking neighbours. Instead they remained Greek-oriented and identified themselves as Greeks. Finally, following the Balkan Wars, Epirus was divided in 1913, in the London Peace Conference, and the region came under the control of Kingdom of Greece, with only a small portion being integrated into the newly formed State of Albania.\n\nDuring the Ottoman era, Chameria had a feudal system of administration. The most important and older feudal clan was that of Pronjo of Paramythia (Drandakis).\n\nWhen the region came under Greek control in 1913, its population included Greeks, Albanians, Aromanians and Romani.\n\nThe Greek census counted Muslim Chams separately from their Christian counterparts; as a result of the religious classification system in place in Greece, some of the Muslim Chams were placed alongside Muslim Turks living in Greece and were transferred to Turkey during the 1923 population exchange between Greece and Turkey while their property was expropriated by the Greek government as part of the same agreement. Orthodox Cham Albanians were counted as Greeks, and their language and Albanian heritage were under heavy pressure of assimilation. The region was then temporarily settled by Greek refugees from Asia Minor who were used as a demographic tool to pressure Muslim Chams to leave the area; most of these Greeks were later moved to other areas in the country after Greece decided not to send Muslim Albanian Chams en-masse to Turkey in the 1920s.\n\nIn the 1930s the population of the region was approximately 70,000; Albanian-speaking Muslims were estimated to number around 18,000–20,000. All the population, independently of religion of ethnicity, were called Chams, but were not counted as such on the Greek census.\n(According to the 1928 census the total Muslim population in Greece was 126.017).\n\nDuring the interwar period, the toponym Chameria was in common use within the region and was also the official name for the area above the Acheron river used in all government documents by the Greek state. In 1936, the Greek state created a new prefecture called Thesprotia, from parts of Ioannina and Preveza prefectures, as to exercise better control over the Muslim Albanian Cham minority.\n\nDuring the Axis occupation of Greece (1941–1944), parts of the Muslim Cham community collaborated with the Italian and German forces as Axis forces manipulated the Cham issue to encourage beneficial resistance to Greek rule in the region. In the early 1940s, 1,800 Cham conscripts were disarmed by Greek forces and set to perform hard labor on infrastructure improvements, and all Albanian males who had not yet been conscripted were deported to internment camps or placed in exile on Greek islands. At the end of World War II, Cham Albanians were systematically cleansed from the region by the guerilla forces of the right-wing National Republican Greek League (EDES) led by Napoleon Zervas. Some Muslim Chams who formed the Chameria Battalion provided military support to the left-wing resistance forces of the Greek People's Liberation Army. After Cham Albanians declined to fight against the left-wing resistance forces of the Greek People's Liberation Army, Zervas ordered a mass assault on Cham villages, which mainly consisted of EDES forces and local Greek peasantry eager to exact their revenge on the richer minority of Cham Albanians in the region.\n\nSince the Medieval Ages, the population of the region of Chameria was of mixed and complex ethnicity, with a blurring of group identities such as Albanian and Greek, along with many other ethnic groups. Information on the ethnic composition of the region over several centuries is almost entirely absent, with the strong likelihood that they did not fit into standard \"national\" patterns, as the 19th-century revolutionary nationalist movements wanted.\n\nIn the early 19th century, Greek scholar and secretary of the local Ottoman ruler Ali Pasha, Athanasios Psalidas, stated that Chameria was inhabited by both Greeks and Albanians. The later were divided between Christians and Muslims, while Greeks were the dominant element of Chameria.\n\nAn estimation by Italian occupational forces during World War II (1941) included Orthodox communities of Albanian ethnicity. According to this in the region lived 54,000 Albanians, of whom 26,000 Orthodox and 28,000 Muslim and 20,000 Greeks. After the war, according to Greek censuses where ethno-linguistic groups were counted, Muslim Chams were 113 in 1947 and 127 in 1951. In the same Greek census of 1951, 7,357 Orthodox Albanian-speakers were counted within the whole of Epirus.\n\nWith the exception of the part of Chameria lying in Albania, Chameria is nowadays inhabited mostly by Greeks as a result of the Cham exodus following World War II and subsequent assimilation of remaining Chams. The number of ethnic Albanians still residing in the Chameria region is uncertain, since the Greek government does not include ethnic and linguistic categories in any official census.\n\nThe Greek census of 1951 counted a total of 127 Muslim Albanian Chams in Epirus. In more recent years (1986) 44 members of this community are found in Thesprotia, located in the settlements of Sybota, Kodra and Polyneri (previously Koutsi). Moreover, until recently the Muslim community in Polyneri was the only one in Epirus to have an imam. The village mosque was the last within the area before being blown up by a local Christian in 1972. The number of Muslim Chams remaining in the area after World War II included also people who converted to Orthodoxy and were assimilated into the local population in order to preserve their properties and themselves.\n\nAccording to a study by the Euromosaic project of the European Union, Albanian speaking communities live along the border with Albania in Thesprotia prefecture, the northern part of the Preveza prefecture in the region called Thesprotiko, and a few villages in Ioannina regional unit. The Arvanite dialect is still spoken by a minority of inhabitants in Igoumenitsa. In northern Preveza prefecture, those communities also include the region of Fanari, in villages such as Ammoudia and Agia. In 1978, some of the older inhabitants in these communities were Albanian monolinguals. The language is spoken by young people too, because when the local working-age population migrate seeking a job in Athens, or abroad, the children are left with their grandparents, thus creating a continuity of speakers.\n\nToday, these Orthodox Albanian speaking communities refer to themselves as Arvanites in the Greek language and self-identify as Greeks, like the Arvanite communities in southern Greece. They refer to their language in Greek as \"Arvanitika\" and when conversing in Albanian as \"Shqip\". In contrast with the Arvanites, some have retained a distinct linguistic and ethnic identity, but also an Albanian national identity. In the presence of foreigners there is a stronger reluctance amongst Orthodox Albanian speakers to speak Albanian, compared to the Arvanites in other parts of Greece. A reluctance has been also noticed for those who still see themselves as \"Chams\" to declare themselves as such. Researcher Tom Winnifirth concluded that it was impossible to find Albanian speakers in the main towns of the region assuming that there may be a number in some villages inland. and concluded in later years that Albanian had \"virtually disappeared\" in the region. According to Ethnologue, the Albanian speaking population of Greek Epirus and Greek Western Macedonia number 10, 000. According to the author Miranda Vickers, Orthodox Chams today are approximately 40,000. Amongst some Greek Arvanites like those in the village of Kastri near Igoumentisa, there has been a revival in folklore, in particular in the performance of \"Arvanitic wedding\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2290991", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2290991", "title": "List of female bass guitarists", "text": "List of female bass guitarists\n\nThis is a list of notable female bass guitarists.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2290999", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2290999", "title": "Royal Theatre (Victoria, British Columbia)", "text": "Royal Theatre (Victoria, British Columbia)\n\nThe Royal Theatre is a proscenium arch theatre and concert hall located in Victoria, British Columbia, Canada. It was designed in 1912 by William D’Oyly Hamilton Rochfort and Eben W. Sankey. Rochfort was very active as an architect in Victoria from 1908 until he left for the war in 1914. Opened in 1913, the theatre has operated under many guises, including cinema (1917–1981; operated during some of that time by Famous Players), in 1972 the Municipalities of Oak Bay, Saanich and Victoria purchased the theatre from Famous Players. Since 1982, it has become one of the finest touring destinations in Canada with a fully modernized production department and box office system, while maintaining the grace and style that an early 19th century provides.\n\nThe theatre was designated a National Historic Site of Canada in 1987.\n\nToday, the theatre has a capacity of 1,416. It is a popular venue, staging concerts, and musicals, featuring the best of local and international productions.\n\nCrosby Stills and Nash\nBroadway Touring\nLocal Opera Productions\nInternational Touring Dance\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2291002", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291002", "title": "Yiannis N. Moschovakis", "text": "Yiannis N. Moschovakis\n\nYiannis Nicholas Moschovakis (; born January 18, 1938) is a set theorist, descriptive set theorist, and recursion (computability) theorist, at UCLA.\n\nHis book \"Descriptive Set Theory\" (North-Holland) is the primary reference for the subject. He is especially associated with the development of the effective, or lightface, version of descriptive set theory, and he is known for the Moschovakis coding lemma that is named after him.\n\nMoschovakis earned his Ph.D. from the University of Wisconsin–Madison in 1963 under the direction of Stephen Kleene, with a dissertation entitled \"Recursive Analysis\". In 2015 he was elected as a fellow of the American Mathematical Society \"for contributions to mathematical logic, especially set theory and computability theory, and for exposition\".\n\nFor many years he has split his time between UCLA and the University of Athens (he retired from the latter in July 2005).\n\nMoschovakis is married to Joan Moschovakis, with whom he gave the 2014 Lindström Lectures at the University of Gothenburg.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2291005", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291005", "title": "Promoter", "text": "Promoter\n\nPromoter or Promotor may refer to:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2291006", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291006", "title": "Tuolumne Band of Me-Wuk Indians", "text": "Tuolumne Band of Me-Wuk Indians\n\nThe Tuolumne Band of Me-Wuk Indians is a federally recognized tribe of Yokuts and Miwok people in Tuolumne County, California. The Tuolumne Band are central Sierra Miwok people. Annually, in September, the tribe holds an acorn festival and intertribal gathering.\n\nThe Tuolumne Band is headquartered in Tuolumne, California. The governing body for the tribe is a legislative body referred to as the \"Community Council\". Council Officers of the Tuolumne Me-Wuk Tribal Council (TMTC) are democratically elected from among the tribal members; the current tribal chairman is Kevin Day. The Governmental structure for the executive aspects of tribal government (those that provide services to the tribe) is managed by the Chief Executive Officer, who exercises authority over various governmental departments addressing tribal needs, which includes, but are not limited to: the Rancheria Fire Department, Tribal Law Enforcement, the Cultural Department, the Education Department & the Tribal School, the Housing Authority, the Fiscal Department, the Recreation Department, and Social Services.\n\nSeveral Community Health Care Agencies are also operated by the Tribe, including the Tuolumne Me-Wuk Indian Health Center in Tuolumne, the Tuolumne Me-Wuk Cedar Road Health Center in Sonora, the Tuolumne Me-Wuk Dental Center in Sonora, and the MEWU:YA Substance Abuse Recovery Offices in Tuolumne.\n\nThe Tuolumne Rancheria () is a 792.69 acre federal Indian reservation in Tuolumne County, at the western base of the Sierra Nevada. It is located near Yosemite National Park. The rancheria was established in 1910, and had a population of 150 in 1990. In 1995 the population was 168. The reservation lies in and just north of the township of Tuolumne. The Tribe owns, as private property (not Indian Reservation), an additional 1,510.41 acres of land. Other nearby communities include Twain Harte, Soulsbyville, and Mono Vista.\n\nThe Tuolumne Band of Me-Wuk Indians economic arm is the Tuolumne Economic Development Authority (TEDA), through which many of the construction projects for the Tribe are planned and completed.\n\nThe Tribe owns and operates several business in Tuolumne County, the most prominent of which is the Black Oak Casino Resort, which includes a Casino, a Hotel, an Arcade with Bowling Alley, and several restaurants, bars, and lounges. The Tribal Gaming Agency (TGA) was established by the Tribe to regulate, license, investigate, and monitor all gaming activities at these facilities.\n\nOther economic ventures pursued by the Tribe and TEDA, which are often affiliated with Black Oak Casino Resort, but not managed by the Resort, include the Teleli Golf Course, the Westside Pavilion Music & Event Venue, the RV Park at Black Oak, the Bear Creek Gas Station, the Tuolumne Square Shopping Center, and the Native Plant Nursery.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2291011", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291011", "title": "Woodlands High School", "text": "Woodlands High School\n\nWoodlands High School may refer to:\n"}
{"id": "2291019", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291019", "title": "American Swedish Institute", "text": "American Swedish Institute\n\nThe American Swedish Institute (ASI) is a museum and cultural center in the Phillips West neighborhood of Minneapolis, Minnesota, United States. The organization is dedicated to the preservation and study of the historic role Sweden and Swedish Americans have played in US culture and history. The museum complex includes the Swan Turnblad Mansion, completed in 1910, and the adjoining Nelson Cultural Center, completed in 2012.\n\nToday, ASI serves as a gathering place for all people to share experiences around themes of culture, migration, the environment and the arts, informed by enduring links to Sweden. The museum offers exhibitions from Sweden and the Nordic region, programming for youth and family, and in recent years, has expanded its performing arts offerings. The museum's restaurant, FIKA, was named \"Best Lunch In Minnesota\" by the \"Star Tribune\" in 2013 for its New Nordic cuisine.\n\nThe American Swedish Institute is housed in a turn-of-the-20th-century mansion that was built for Swedish immigrants Swan and Christina Turnblad. Swan Turnblad immigrated with his family to the United States in 1868 at the age of eight. His parents made the decision to leave their farm in the famine-ridden area of Småland, Sweden. The family settled in a Swedish community called Vasa in southern Minnesota where they joined relatives who had settled in the area earlier.\n\nSwan Turnblad was not content to continue in the family farming tradition. In 1879 Turnblad left Vasa for Minneapolis where he lived the quintessential rags-to-riches American success story. After he moved to Minneapolis, Turnblad worked at several Swedish language newspapers as a typesetter. His interest in the printing industry eventually led to his success as publisher of the Swedish language newspaper \"Svenska Amerikanska Posten\". Within ten years he was the sole owner. Under his management, circulation of the weekly paper soared to over 40,000, a substantial increase from the 1,400 it initially claimed. This publication was likely the principal source of Turnblad's wealth.\n\nThe success of the paper was a result of Turnblad's aggressive management style, as well as the large numbers of Swedish immigrants who supported it. He created a technically advanced newspaper by using the best printing equipment available. He was the first Swedish publisher in America to set his paper by Linotype machine. In 1903 \"Svenska Amerikanska Posten\" became the first Swedish language paper to use a duplex rotary color printing press, enabling the creation of color illustrations.\n\nIn Minneapolis Swan met and married Christina Nilsson. She, like Turnblad, had come to America from Sweden with her family. Her family settled in Worthington, Minnesota, in 1876 when Christina was 15. Her first job in America paid no wages, but gave her work experience and English language training. Later she worked as a waitress for one year. In 1882 Christina moved to Minneapolis where she met the young newspaper man at a Good Templar meeting. They were married in 1883 and their only child, Lillian Zenobia, was born a year later.\n\nIn the early 20th century the Turnblads started to plan the building of their palatial estate. Their many trips to Europe certainly influenced their decision on the stately chateau style of the mansion and the ornate designs of the interior. The property on Park Avenue was purchased in 1903 and plans were drawn up by the Minneapolis architectural firm of Christopher A. Boehme and Victor Cordella. The structure took nearly five years to build. The Turnblads did not take out a mortgage on this property during construction. Bills were paid as they came due and there are no records of construction costs. When the museum was founded in 1929, the \"Minneapolis Tribune\" reported, \"the cost is believed to have been close to $1 million although this is a matter the builder does not discuss.\"\n\nThe transition from private residence to museum happened in 1929 when the family donated the house and the newspaper to establish the American Institute for Swedish Arts, Literature and Science (later changed to the American Swedish Institute). Turnblad stated that he had long planned for the home to be a Swedish-American institute. He was quoted as saying, \"many persons may have wondered what a small family like ours, a family which had not great social ambitions, wanted with so big a house. Perhaps they can guess now.\" The mansion is on the National Register of Historic Places. It was listed for its local significance in architecture, art, and education.\n\nThe second floor of the mansion underwent restoration in 1995 to rebuild damaged plaster moldings, and restore their gold leaf and paint to match undamaged regions. The work received a Heritage Preservation Award.\nIn 2012, ASI opened a addition designed by HGA Architects of Minneapolis. The addition includes new gallery space, craft workshop, glass-enclosed reception area, gift shop, restaurant (FIKA), and spaces for events such as concerts, lectures, and community gatherings. The addition was dedicated by King Carl XVI Gustaf and Queen Silvia of Sweden.\n\nExhibits at ASI have included:\n\nIn the 1950s, ASI began displays that showed how Christmas is celebrated in different Scandinavian countries. This has evolved into an annual display where each room in the mansion is decorated to represent a different country: Sweden, Norway, Finland, Iceland, and Denmark. Recently, the museum has added a \"guest country\" to the display with a Navidad room from Mexico in 2014 and a Russian Christmas room in 2015.\n\n\n\nPhotos\n"}
{"id": "2291026", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291026", "title": "Christel Khalil", "text": "Christel Khalil\n\nChristel Adnana Mina Khalil (born November 30, 1987) is an American actress.\n\nKhalil was born in Los Angeles, California, to a mother of Native American, African American, and European descent and a Pakistani father. Khalil has stated she identifies as mixed race. She has three older brothers and a younger paternal half-sister. In January 2017, in the wake of President Donald Trump's signing of Executive Order 13769, Khalil revealed that her father is an immigrant from his native country of Pakistan.\n\nKhalil is best known for her portrayal as Lily Winters on the CBS soap opera \"The Young and the Restless\". At the \"39th Daytime Emmy Awards\" on June 23, 2012, she won the Daytime Emmy Award for Outstanding Younger Actress in a Drama Series. In August 2018, she announced her decision to downgrade from being on contract with the show and instead continue on a recurring basis. Khalil explained the decision was driven by her desire to have more freedom in both her professional and personal life.\n\nKhalil has had small roles in movies such as \"Dragon Fury\", \"Matilda\", \"Interview With the Assassin\" and \"White Like the Moon\". She voiced Cornelia Hale in \"W.I.T.C.H.\", and also appeared on \"That's So Raven\" and \"Malcolm in the Middle\", among other shows. Khalil also performed in Los Angeles theater productions before landing her role on \"The Young and the Restless\". In 2012, she was featured in musician Johnny Britt's music video for his single \"Beautiful Queen\". In spring 2018, Khalil co-starred in the independent thriller, \"Good Deed\", which premiered on the Lifetime network in November 2018 under the title \"Sorority Stalker.\" In spring 2019, she was cast in the independent comedy \"We Need To Talk\" by writer and director Todd Wolfe.\n\nIn September 2008, she married musician Stephen Hensley. \"The Young and the Restless\" co-star Elizabeth Hendrickson served as a bridesmaid while Bryton James was a groomsman. Khalil gave birth to their son on April 17, 2010, during an at home water birth. Bryton James is his godfather and actress Fadhia Marcelin is his godmother. She and Hensley split in early 2011 and divorced later that year. In 2015, Khalil stated she had been in a relationship with bar runner Ray Wicks for 4 years. Khalil ended the relationship in August 2015. In the summer of 2018, Khalil stated that she has been in a relationship with Canadian businessman Sam Restagno for years. In 2019, Khalil and her son relocated to Toronto, Canada to live with Restagno. In April 2020, Khalil revealed that she is moving back to Los Angeles with Restagno and her son.\n\nShe is best friends with Bryton James, who portrays her character's brother, Devon Hamilton on \"The Young and the Restless\". She is also friends with several former \"The Young and the Restless\" co-stars, including Mishael Morgan and Nadine Heimann. In October 2015, she modeled for Heimann's non-profit, True Connection.\n\nIn June 2015, after the United States Supreme Court's decision on \"Obergefell v. Hodges\", she voiced her support for same-sex marriage. Khalil has said one of her favorite hobbies is traveling because she loves experiencing different cultures and travel makes her feel connected to who she is as a person.\n\n"}
{"id": "2291032", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291032", "title": "Missouri Route 142", "text": "Missouri Route 142\n\nRoute 142 is a highway in southern Missouri. Its eastern terminus is at Route 53 in southern Poplar Bluff; its western terminus is at Route 101 in Bakersfield. Route 142 is the southernmost (east–west) highway in the south-central part of the state. Despite its length, there are relatively few towns on the route.\n"}
{"id": "2291042", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291042", "title": "Missouri Route 101", "text": "Missouri Route 101\n\nRoute 101 is a short highway in southern Missouri. The route starts at Arkansas Highway 101 at the Arkansas–Missouri state line, and travels northeastward. It travels through the city of Bakersfield, intersecting Route 142. The road then continues north to its northern terminus at U.S. Route 160 (US 160) in Caulfield. The route was designated in 1941, after a supplementary route was renumbered.\n\nThe route is located in Ozark and Howell counties. In 2015, Missouri Department of Transportation (MoDOT) calculated as many as 1,566 vehicles traveling on Route 101 south of US 160, and as few as 1258 vehicles traveling north of the Arkansas–Missouri state line. This is expressed in terms of annual average daily traffic (AADT), a measure of traffic volume for any average day of the year.\n\nRoute 101 starts at the Missouri–Arkansas state line, at the northern terminus of Arkansas Route 101 and County Road 583 (CRD 583). The road travels through a forest and parallel to the state line for the first . At CRD 588, the route turns northeastward, intersecting a few driveways until it reaches CRD 586, where it turns northward past the intersection. Route 101 travels eastward before it intersects CRD 584, and enters the corporate limits of Bakersfield at CRD 585. The route briefly travels north and intersects Route O, which leads to the unincorporated area of Udall. The road enters the center of the city at Main Street and curves northward at the western terminus of Route 142. Route 101 leaves the city north of Starks. The road enters through a mix of farmland and forests as it continued through southeast Ozark County. At CRD 101-174, the route begins to turn northeastward and later intersects CRD 597. Route 101 crosses the county line at CRD 7890, and enters Howell County. Once inside the county, the route turns north at Route YY and intersects CRD 7690. The road turns to the northeast in the community of Caulfield, and ends at US 61 in a T-intersection.\n\nThe designation was first used for another route in Wayne County in 1937, for a gravel road that connected from Route 34 to Sam A. Baker State Park. The route was renumbered to Route 143 by 1941.\n\nFor the current designation, Route M was designated to a gravel road in 1932 that started from the state line to Route 80, passing through Bakersfield. It was renumbered to Route 101 in 1941, part of many changes made by the Missouri State Highway Commission. All of the route was paved by 1953. Around 1954, Route 101 was realigned west of Bakersfield, shifting the southern terminus to the west. US 160 replaced the Route 80 designation in the same year.\n"}
{"id": "2291047", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291047", "title": "Goapele", "text": "Goapele\n\nGoapele Mohlabane (; born July 11, 1977), is an American soul and R&B singer-songwriter. Her name means \"to move forward\" in Setswana, a Southern African language.\n\nGoapele's South African father Douglas Mohlabane was an exiled political activist who struggled against the Apartheid System. Goapele's New York-born Israeli Jewish mother Noa had been attending protests since the age of 12. Noa attended Friends World College and was studying in Nairobi, Kenya, where she met and married Douglas. Goapele and her older brother DJ Namane Mohlabane were raised in a California South African exile community.\n\nBoth of her parents inspired Goapele to become very involved in community affairs at a young age. She attended the Berkeley Arts Magnet School, where she led a pre-teen peer-support group. She also became involved in various groups and organizations that combated racism and sexism. In high school, she sang in the Oakland Youth Choir and became part of a music group called Vocal Motion. Upon high school graduation, she attended Boston's Berklee College of Music, where she studied music theory.\n\nToday, her music often highlights the need for political and socio-economic change. She says she has been influenced by many including Stevie Wonder, Etta James, Nina Simone, Billie Holiday, Aretha Franklin, Whitney Houston, Bob Marley, Portishead, Miriam Makeba, Prince, Sade, Caiphus Semenya, Zulu Spears, and Hugh Masekela.\n\nGoapele and Theo Rodrigues have a daughter together, Bahia Osun (born May 2007).\n\nGoapele returned to Oakland after her time at Berklee College of Music, where she concentrated on writing and recording songs. In 2001, she self-released her debut album, \"Closer\", which sold 5,000 copies. At the same time, she was building a devoted audience through her popular live performances in the San Francisco Bay Area. \"Closer\" peaked at #63 on Billboard's Top R&B/Hip-Hop Albums chart.\n\nIn 2002 she reworked \"Closer\", adding five new songs. With the help of her family, she formed her own independent label, Skyblaze Recordings, to oversee her musical career. She released her first nationally distributed album, \"Even Closer\", featuring the single \"Closer,\" through Hieroglyphics Imperium Recordings. “Closer” was also featured on the soundtrack of the 2003 movie \"Honey\". In 2004, Columbia/SME Records picked up Skyblaze Recordings for worldwide distribution and rereleased the album with additional tracks. She co-wrote and co-produced the entire album, which is a mixture of neo-soul, trip hop, lieder, and jazz. She also toured North America with the band Spearhead. In 2004, \"Even Closer\" peaked at #24 on the Billboard Charts for Top Independent Albums.\n\nHer second album, \"Change It All\", featuring the single \"First Love\" and the song \"Love Me Right,\" was released December 2005. The album featured production work from Jeff Bhasker, Mike Tiger, Amp Live, Sa-Ra Creative Partners, and Linda Perry. In 2006 the album peaked at #32 on the Billboard Top R&B/Hip Hop Album Charts and #2 on the Top Heatseekers while the single \"First Love\" reached #18 on the Hot Adult R&B Airplay. Goapele appeared on \"Soul Train\" to promote the album in May 2006, in what turned out to be the show's final new episode. She also appeared on \"The Orlando Jones Show\", \"Jimmy Kimmel Live!\", \"Late Night with Conan O'Brien\", \"ABC View from The Bay\" and \"FOX Good Day Atlanta\". Her first three releases have garnered praise from the likes of magazines such as \"Rolling Stone\", \"Nylon\", \"Interview\", \"Marie Claire\", \"Billboard\", \"Essence\", and \"Vibe\". She has appeared on the covers of local Bay Area publications \"San Francisco Magazine\", \"Diablo Magazine\", \"East Bay Express\", \"SF Bay Guardian\", \"Mugshot Magazine\", and \"City Flight\", She was named the number-5 artist to watch in the July 2003 issue of \"Rolling Stone\" magazine, made the countdown on MTV’s \"Top 10 Artists to Watch\", and collaborated with ALDO Shoes’ advertisement campaign in its fight against HIV/AIDS, which featured artists such as Avril Lavigne, Ludacris, Dave Navarro, Charlize Theron, Pink, Eve, Rosario Dawson, Eva Mendes, Bow Wow, Ziggy Marley, and Kelly Rowland.\n\nOn July 10, 2009, Skyblaze Recordings leaked the single \"Milk & Honey\" (produced by Bedrock), the first single from her third studio album of the same title. However, in August 2011, she announced that the album would be titled \"Break of Dawn\". The album is being recorded at the Zoo, home of Goapele’s Oakland-based Skylight Studios and will feature production from Drumma Boy, Bedrock, Kanye West, Dan Electric, Mike Tiger, Bobby Ozuna (Raphael Saadiq, John Mayer, Erykah Badu), Malay (John Legend, Mary J. Blige), Jeff Bhasker (The Game, Kanye West, Ludacris, T.I), and other guest musicians. After many delays, the album was finally released on October 25, 2011.\n\nIn celebration of the FIFA World Cup 2010 in South Africa Goapele released the single \"Victory\" featuring South African emcee Hip Hop Pantsula, a prelude to her upcoming musical project \"Victory\", which was released in Winter 2010 and feature an array of artists from the African continent as well as throughout the Diaspora. The leading track was recorded in English, Setswana, and Xhosa and tries to draw attention to the need for education and resources to combat Africa's most crucial dilemmas. The album will also encompass philanthropy, political and social activism. Proceeds from the project will go to ANSA (Artists for a New South Africa) a non-profit organization working to combat HIV/AIDS, assist children orphaned by the disease, advance human and civil right, educate and empower youth and build bonds between the U.S. and South Africa through Arts & Culture.\n\nIn 2014, Goapele signed with singer Eric Benét's record label Jordan House and is in the process of recording new material for her new label.\n\nIn 2014, Goapele released \"Strong as Glass\", her fifth studio album. The lead single was \"Hey, Boy\" featuring Snoop Dogg and the video was released September 10, 2014 on YouTube.\n\nApart from her solo work, she has collaborated with West Coast MCs such as Aceyalone, E-40, Zion-I, and Mac Mall; those involved in the Hieroglyphics Crew; Detroit based vocalist Dwele; and Clyde Carson and Mos Def on the track “Different.”\n\nGoapele performed at rallies, demonstrations, and various political events around the world from Cuba to South Africa. On September 14, 2006, the California-based Ella Baker Center for Human Rights honored her with its first ever Human Rights Cultural Hero Award during the center’s 10th-anniversary celebration, which was titled “Tribute to a Dream.” The following statement was issued by the Center regarding the award: The Ella Baker Center for Human Rights is a non-profit strategy and action center. The stated aim of the center is to work for justice, opportunity, and peace in urban America.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2291049", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291049", "title": "Australian Chess Championship", "text": "Australian Chess Championship\n\nThe Australian Chess Championship is a tournament organised by the Australian Chess Federation and held every two years. The tournament is largely restricted to Australian chess players, although it is common to allow a small number of strong overseas players to compete. The highest-scoring eligible player (frequently the tournament winner) holds the title of Australian Chess Champion until the next tournament is held. The tournament format is normally a restricted Swiss system, and in case of a tie for first place, a playoff match or tournament is conducted.\n\nSince 1971, the Australian Open has been held in the intervening years. This event is open to all players, regardless of nationality, and the winner holds the title of Australian Open Champion.\n\nThe Australian Junior Championship and Australian Girls Championship are held annually. The Australian Women's Championship was previously organised as a separate tournament but current regulations award the title of Australian Women's Champion to the highest placed Australian female player in the Australian Open (dependent on a minimum number of female entries).\n\nPrior to 2008, the tournament usually began in late December (after Christmas) and finished in January. Since 2008, the tournament has usually been held entirely in January. In the table, the year refers to the date the tournament finished.\n\n\nThe Australian Junior Chess Championship is a tournament organised by the Australian Chess Federation and is held every year. It is restricted to junior players under 18 years of age. The Australian Girls Championship is held concurrently.\n\n\n\nSince 1989 a system has been in place with points accumulated in different Australian weekend tournaments. The winners have been:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2291051", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291051", "title": "Missouri Route 99", "text": "Missouri Route 99\n\nRoute 99 is a short highway in southern Missouri. Its northern terminus is at U.S. Route 60 just north of Birch Tree in Shannon County; its southern terminus is at U.S. Route 160 south of Thomasville in Oregon County to the SSE. It crosses the Eleven Point River at Thomasville. Just south of Thomasville Route 99 provides access to the west end of the Eleven Point Wild and Scenic River portion of the Mark Twain National Forest.\n"}
{"id": "2291054", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291054", "title": "Francis Heylighen", "text": "Francis Heylighen\n\nFrancis Paul Heylighen (born 1960) is a Belgian cyberneticist investigating the emergence and evolution of intelligent organization. He presently works as a research professor at the Vrije Universiteit Brussel (the Dutch-speaking Free University of Brussels), where he directs the transdisciplinary research group on \"Evolution, Complexity and Cognition\" and the Global Brain Institute. He is best known for his work on the Principia Cybernetica Project, his model of the Internet as a global brain, and his contributions to the theories of memetics and self-organization. He is also known, albeit to a lesser extent, for his work on gifted people and their problems.\n\nFrancis Heylighen was born on September 27, 1960 in Vilvoorde, Belgium. He received his high school education from the \"Koninklijk Atheneum Pitzemburg\" in Mechelen, in the section Latin-Mathematics. He received his MSc in mathematical physics in 1982 from the Vrije Universiteit Brussel (VUB), where he also received his PhD Summa cum Laude in Sciences in 1987 for his thesis, published in 1990, as \"Representation and Change. A Metarepresentational Framework for the Foundations of Physical and Cognitive Science.\"\n\nIn 1983 he started working as a researcher for the Belgian National Fund for Scientific Research (NFWO). In 1994 he became a tenured researcher at the NFWO and in 2001 a research professor at the VUB. Since 1995 he has been affiliated with the VUB's Center Leo Apostel for interdisciplinary studies. In 2004 he created the ECCO research group which he presently directs. Thanks to a grant from a private sponsor, in 2012 he additionally founded the Global Brain Institute at the Vrije Universiteit Brussel, becoming its first director.\n\nIn 1989 Valentin Turchin and Cliff Joslyn founded the Principia Cybernetica Project, and Heylighen joined a year later. In 1993 he created the project's encyclopedic site, one of the first complex websites in the world. In 1996, Heylighen founded the \"Global Brain Group\", an international discussion forum that provides a working platform for most of the scientists who have worked on the concept of emergent Internet intelligence. Heylighen was also one of the founders and former editor of the Journal of Memetics which ceased publication in 2008.\n\nHeylighen is a Fellow of the World Academy of Art and Science, and a member of the Global Agenda Council on Complex Systems of the World Economic Forum. His biography has been listed since 2002 in Marquis Who's Who in the world. In 2015, he received an \"Outstanding Technology Contribution Award\" from the Web Intelligence Consortium, for his research on the Global Brain.\n\nHis research focuses on the emergence and evolution of complex, intelligent organization. Applications include the origin of life, the development of multicellular organisms, knowledge, culture, and societies, and the impact of information and communication technologies on present and future social evolution.\n\nHeylighen's scientific work covers an extremely wide range of subjects, exemplifying his intellectual curiosity and fundamentally transdisciplinary way of thinking. In addition to the topics mentioned above, his publications cover topics such as the foundations of quantum mechanics, the structure of space-time, hypermedia interfaces, the psychology of self-actualization and happiness, the market mechanism, formality and contextuality in language, causality, the measurement of social progress, the mechanism of stigmergy and its application to the web.\n\nThis broad variety of work is held together by two basic principles. The relational principle notes that phenomena do not exist on their own, but only in relation (connection or distinction) to other phenomena. They thus only make sense as part of an encompassing network or system. The evolutionary principle notes that variation through (re)combination of parts and natural selection of the fitter combinations results in ever more complex and adaptive systems. This principle is a direct application of Universal Darwinism, the idea that Darwinian mechanisms can be extended to virtually all disciplines and problem domains.\n\nThe two principles come together in Heylighen's concept of a distinction dynamics. In his analysis, classical scientific methodology is based on given, unchanging distinctions between elements or states. Therefore, it is intrinsically unable to model creative change. But the evolutionary principle makes distinctions dynamic, explaining the creation and destruction of relations, distinctions and connections, and thus helping us to understand how and why complex organization emerges.\n\nMoreover, any system must be adapted to its environment, which implies that it is able to react adequately to changes in that environment. This is the origin of mind or intelligence, as the system should be able to select the right actions for the given conditions. These \"condition-action\" relations are the basis of knowledge. As systems evolve, their adaptiveness tends to increase, and therefore also their knowledge or intelligence. Thus, the general trend of evolution is self-organization, or a spontaneous increase in intelligent organization.\n\nTogether with Cliff Joslyn and the late Valentin Turchin, Heylighen is a founding editor of the Principia Cybernetica Project, which is devoted to the collaborative development of an evolutionary-systemic philosophy. He created its website, the Principia Cybernetica Web, in 1993, as one of the first complex webs in the world. It is still viewed as one of the most important sites on cybernetics, systems theory and related approaches.\n\nIn 1996, Heylighen founded the \"Global Brain Group\", an international discussion forum that groups most of the scientists who have worked on the concept of emergent Internet intelligence. Together with his PhD student Johan Bollen, Heylighen was the first to propose algorithms that could turn the world-wide web into a self-organizing, learning network that exhibits collective intelligence, i.e. a Global brain.\n\nIn the 2007 article \"The Global Superorganism: an evolutionary-cybernetic model of the emerging network society\" Heylighen gave a detailed exposition of the superorganism/global brain view of society, and an examination of the underlying evolutionary mechanisms, with applications to the ongoing and future developments in a globalizing world. Presently, he is developing a detailed mathematical and simulation model of the global brain, together with his collaborators in the Global Brain Institute.\n\n\nHeylighen has published over 100 papers and a book. A selection:\n\n"}
{"id": "2291056", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291056", "title": "Longwood Medical and Academic Area", "text": "Longwood Medical and Academic Area\n\nThe Longwood Medical and Academic Area (also known as Longwood Medical Area, LMA, or simply Longwood) is a medical campus in Boston, Massachusetts. Flanking Longwood Avenue, LMA is adjacent to the Fenway–Kenmore, Audubon Circle, and Mission Hill neighborhoods, as well as the town of Brookline.\n\nIt is most strongly associated with Harvard Medical School, the Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health, the Harvard School of Dental Medicine, and other medical facilities such as Harvard's teaching hospitals, but prominent non-Harvard institutions are located there as well.\n\n\n\nLMA is served by two subway stations at opposite ends of Longwood Avenue:\n\"Longwood\" (on the MBTA Green Line's \"D\" branch) and\n\"Longwood Medical Area\" (on the \"E\" branch).\nSeveral public bus routes serve the area and commuter rail service is available at nearby Ruggles Station. MASCO offers shuttle buses (generally for affiliated personnel only) around the Longwood Medical Area and between Harvard's Cambridge Campus and the Medical Campus (M2). The M2 shuttle is free for passengers holding a Harvard ID.\n\nLMA receives electrical power, cooling, and heating from a trigeneration (CCHP) facility, the Medical Area Total Energy Plant (MATEP).\n\n"}
{"id": "2291063", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291063", "title": "Nuwaubian Nation", "text": "Nuwaubian Nation\n\nThe Nuwaubian Nation or Nuwaubian movement () is an American religious group founded and led by Dwight York, also known as Malachi Z. York. York began founding Black Muslim groups in New York in 1967. He changed his teachings and the names of his groups many times, incorporating concepts from Judaism, Christianity, and many esoteric beliefs.\n\nIn the late 1980s, he abandoned the Muslim theology of his movement in favor of Kemetism and UFO religion. In 1991 he took his community to settle in upstate New York; then they moved near to Eatonton, the county seat of Putnam County in Georgia. His followers built an ancient Egypt-themed compound called Tama-Re and changed their name to the \"United Nuwaubian Nation of Moors.\"\n\nBy 2000, the \"United Nuwaubian Nation of Moors\" had some 500 adherents. They drew thousands of visitors for \"Savior's Day\" (York's birthday). Adherence declined steeply after York was convicted of numerous counts of child molestation and financing violations, and sentenced to 135 years in federal prison in April 2004. The Tama-Re compound was sold under government forfeiture and demolished. The Southern Poverty Law Center described York as a \"black supremacist cult leader\", and has designated the organization as a \"hate group\".\n\nThe group has taken numerous names, including Ansaru Allah Community, Holy Tabernacle Ministries, United Nuwaubian Nation of Moors (after the move to Georgia), Yamassee Native American Moors of the Creek Nation (also used in Georgia when York claimed indigenous ancestry via Egyptian migration and intermarriage with the ancient Olmec) and Nuwaubian Nation of Moors.\n\nThe Nuwaubian Nation was centered exclusively on the person of its founder, Malachi (Dwight) York, who legally changed his name several times, and has used dozens of aliases.\n\nYork was born on June 26, 1935 (also reported as 1945). He began his ministry in the late 1960s, from 1967 preaching to a group he called the Pan-African \"Nubians\" (viz. African Americans) in Brooklyn.\n\nYork founded numerous esoteric or quasi-religious fraternal orders under various names during the 1970s and 1980s, at first along pseudo-Islamic lines, later moving to a loose Afrocentric ancient Egypt theme, eclectically mixing ideas taken from Black nationalism, cryptozoology and UFO religions and popular conspiracy theories.\nDuring the 1980s, he was also active as a musician as Dr. York, who recorded for Passion Records.\n\nYork published some 450 booklets (dubbed \"scrolls\") under numerous pseudonyms. During the late 1990s, he styled himself a messianic founder-prophet of his movement, sometimes claiming divine status or extraterrestrial origin, appearing on his Savior's Day celebrations at Tama-Re.\n\nYork was arrested in May 2002, and in 2003 he pleaded guilty to child sexual abuse after being indicted on 197 counts of child molestation, including charges of sex trafficking of minors across state lines. He was imprisoned. In 2004, he was convicted to a 135-year sentence for transporting minors across state lines in the course of sexually molesting them, racketeering, and financial reporting charges. His convictions were upheld on appeal. York's case was reported as the largest prosecution for child molestation ever directed at a single person in the history of the United States, both in terms of number of victims and number of incidents. The case was described in the book \"Ungodly: A True Story of Unprecedented Evil\" (2007) by Bill Osinski, a reporter who had covered the Nuwaubians in Georgia during the late 1990s.\n\nSome factions of the Black supremacist subculture in the United States appeared to continue to support York as of 2010, portraying his conviction as a conspiracy by the \"White Power Structure\". Malik Zulu Shabazz, chairman of the New Black Panther Party and York's lawyer, described York as \"a great leader of our people [… and] victim of an open conspiracy by our enemy.\"\n\nDuring the 1970s, the group set up bookstores and chapters in Trinidad; Baltimore; and Washington, D.C. According to former follower Saadik Redd, York had between 2,000 and 3,000 followers during the 1970s. Its headquarters was in Bushwick, Brooklyn, until 1983. A portion of the community moved to Sullivan County, New York, to a site they called Camp Jazzir Abba. More people stayed in Brooklyn until about 1991.\n\nA Muslim cleric, Bilal Philips, published \"The Ansar Cult in America\" in 1988, denouncing the movement as un-Islamic. Phillips relied heavily on testimonies of former adherents in describing the group's beliefs and practices.\n\nIn the late 1980s, York borrowed from numerous religious and esoteric traditions beyond Islam, creating the \"Nuwaubian\" movement. York styled his movement in a mixture of Ancient Egypt and Native American themes. York changed his legal name again, from \"Issa Al Haadi Al Mahdi\" to \"Malachi York,\" effective March 12, 1993.\n\nFormer follower Robert J. Rohan had a critical view of York's changes, as noted in this interview:\n\nAmong its themes, the Nuwaubians borrowed a claim to indigenous ancestry, perhaps from the Washitaw Nation (a Louisiana Black separatist group led by an eccentric 'empress'). They claimed to be indigenous people, named Yamasee (claiming affiliation with the confederation of Muscogee (Creek) Native American nations in the Georgia area) as well as \"Moors.\" They claimed a prehistoric migration to America \"before the continents drifted apart\". At this point, the group called itself \"Yamassee Native American Moors of the Creek Nation\". During the early 2000s, York presided at Tama-Re styled as \"Our Own Pharoah NETER A'aferti Atum-Re\", leader and chief mystagogue of \"The Ancient Egiptian Order.\"\n\nInitially the Nuwaubians were considered eccentric but tolerable. But tensions increased locally when they distributed leaflets attacking whites and claiming racial persecution in a zoning conflict. They had set up a nightclub in a warehouse on their property. They alienated many residents of the area, both black and white.\n\nTensions with county authorities increased in 1998, when the county sought an injunction against construction and uses that violated zoning. At the same time, the Nuwaubian community increased its leafletting of Eatonton and surrounding areas, charging white officials with racial discrimination and striving to increase opposition to them. Threats mounted and an eviscerated dog carcass was left at the home of the county attorney.\n\nWithin Putnam County, the Nuwaubians lost black support, in part by trying to take over the NAACP chapter. But outside, they appealed to national activists, claiming to be racially persecuted in the county. In 1999, Al Sharpton visited Tama-Re to express his support for the Nuwaubians. During this period, the group maintained Holy Tabernacle stores \"in more than a dozen cities in the U.S., the United Kingdom and Trinidad,\" and continued to gain revenues from them. York purchased a $557,000 mansion for his own use in Athens, Georgia, about 60 miles away, where the University of Georgia is located.\n\nIn 2001, the group put up their own candidates, associated with the Republican Party, for public office, including sheriff. Their candidates were defeated.\n\nIn conjunction with a Nuwaubian Nation parade held in Augusta, Georgia, in February 2001, the office of Augusta mayor Bob Young (1999–2005) published a proclamation written by the Nuwaubian organization, stating the group's beliefs. Quotes include \"the Nuwbuns were the dark, brown-to-black-skin, wooly-hair original Eygyptians.\" \"[T]he Black race's greatness has been accepted in America and many books as people of Timbuktu Africa or the Olmecians from Uganda, Africa, who migrated and walked here to North and South America to set up colonies way before the continental drift.\"\n\nIn an interview with a reporter from \"The Augusta Chronicle,\" Mayor Young said that he had not personally read the statement prior to its release. He explained that his office customarily releases proclamations drafted and submitted for publication by civic groups without subjecting them to substantial content review. He suggested that such proclamations do not constitute official positions of the mayor's office or statements of the mayor's views.\n\nOn May 8, 2002, Tama-Re was raided by a joint force of FBI and ATF agents, state police, and local law enforcement. Although there were fears that the raid would end in violence, no shots were fired during the operation, although tear gas was used by the FBI's Hostage Rescue Team. \n\nYork, along with his wife, was arrested outside of the property the same day on federal charges of child molestation and racketeering, including transport of minors for sexual use. He was convicted in 2004 by a jury in federal court and sentenced to 135 years in federal prison. His appeal failed, and the US Supreme Court declined to hear the last appeal. Tama-Re was sold in asset forfeiture under the verdict, and the new owners demolished the structures. With the revelations of York's conduct, most followers abandoned the group, although some factions of the Nuwaubian Nation still exist.\nYork is currently incarcerated in ADX Florence, a maximum-security federal prison in Florence, Colorado. He will be eligible for parole in 2122.\n\nIn 2004, seven officers of the Macon, Georgia, police department resigned from their jobs in protest against the prosecution of York. Five of those officers were later hired by the Clarke County, Georgia, jail as guards. Four of them were fired in 2006 (the fifth resigned) in the wake of charges that they were smuggling Nuwaubianist literature into the jail, corresponding with the prisoner York, encouraging inmates to rebel against white guards, and showing favoritism to Nuwaubian prisoners. The jail commander was fired after he began an investigation of Nuwaubianist influence at the jail. He has said he believes that he was fired because he undertook this investigation.\n\nAs \"Dr. York,\" the movement leader was active as a vocalist and music producer in Brooklyn before leaving the area. During this time, his Nuwaubian teachings had an effect upon hip hop and Black culture in New York. Journalist Adam Heimlich of the \"New York Press\" suggested the following were influenced by York: Jaz-O, Doug E. Fresh, Afrika Bambaataa, Posdnuos from De La Soul, Prodigy from Mobb Deep, and MF Doom.\n\nIn his article on York's cult, Heimlich reviewed some of the leader's published works. He wrote that York had borrowed from a variety of sources for his ideas:\n\nAmong the indie hip hop ranks, there are Nuwaubians who perform what they call Nu-wop, such as Daddi Kuwsh, Twinity, Nefu Amun Hotep, 9thScientist, Scienz of Life, Ntelek, Jedi Mind Tricks, Aslaam Mahdi, 720 Pure Sufi, Tos El Bashir and The Lost Children of Babylon. On Where Light's \"Swords of Malachai\", Rasul lets loose: 'When my tongue swings in the form of a double-edged sword, it brings forth Nuwaubu, which is right Knowledge, wisdom and understanding.'\"\n\nIn an article for \"Honor Nation,\" A. L. JakeAl Reum speculated that the controversial Native American kitsch costumes and props from OutKast's 46th Annual Grammy Awards performance in 2004 were inspired by the Nuwaubian belief about the Native Americans being \"Moors\" in origin.\n\nSouthern Poverty Law Center described the Nuwaubianism belief system as \"mix[ing] black supremacist ideas with worship of the Egyptians and their pyramids, a belief in UFOs and various conspiracies related to the Illuminati and the Bilderbergers\" and quoted York's letter dated Nov. 10, 2004 as: \"The Caucasian has not been chosen to lead the world. They lack true emotions in their creation. We never intended them to be peaceful. They were bred to be killers, with low reproduction levels and a short life span.\" Another explanation has Caucasians descend from Cain: \"Adam and Eve were sent to the Aegean Islands between Asia and Europe, where they started having children, and each couple's first born child was an Albino and those Albinos are called Cain in the Bible, and Cain is short for Caucasian.\"\n\nIn 1994 Ghazi Y. Khankan, director of the New York office of the Council on American–Islamic Relations, commented about York and his group based on their history in Brooklyn. He said, \"It's a cult, in my opinion, and in Islam there are no cults. They consider their leader a prophet, which means they have deviated from the Islamic way.\" The superficial similarity of York's beliefs to those of the Heaven's Gate cult led to some worried newspaper articles after that group's mass suicide during the appearance of Comet Hale–Bopp in 1997, in which the cult was reported to have said that a spacecraft was following the comet.\n\nYork taught a number of \"revealing\" pseudo-etymologies of English words, for instance:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2291066", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291066", "title": "Common iliac vein", "text": "Common iliac vein\n\nIn human anatomy, the common iliac veins are formed by the external iliac veins and internal iliac veins. The left and right common iliac veins come together in the abdomen at the level of the fifth lumbar vertebra, forming the inferior vena cava. They drain blood from the pelvis and lower limbs.\n\nBoth common iliac veins are accompanied along their course by common iliac arteries.\n\nThe external iliac vein and internal iliac vein unite in front of the sacroiliac joint to form the common iliac veins. Both common iliac veins ascend to form the inferior vena cava behind the right common iliac artery at the level of the fifth lumbar vertebra.\n\nThe vena cava is to the right of the midline and therefore the left common iliac vein is longer than the right. The left common iliac vein occasionally travels upwards to the left of the aorta to the level of the kidney, where it receives the left renal vein and crosses in front of the aorta to join the inferior vena cava. The right common iliac vein is virtually vertical and lies behind and then lateral to its artery. Each common iliac vein receives iliolumbar veins, while the left also receives the median sacral vein which lies on the right of the corresponding artery.\n\nOverlying arterial structures may cause compression of the upper part of the left common iliac vein.\n\nCompression of the left common iliac vein against the fifth lumbar vertebral body by the right common iliac artery as the artery crosses in front of it traditionally happens in May–Thurner syndrome.\n\nContinuous pulsation of the common iliac artery may trigger an inflammatory response within the common iliac vein. The resulting intraluminal elastin and collagen deposition can cause intimal fibrosis and the formation of venous spurs and webs. This can lead to narrowing of the vein and cause persistent unilateral leg swelling, contributing to venous thromboembolism.\n\n"}
{"id": "2291073", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291073", "title": "Amykles", "text": "Amykles\n\nAmykles () is a village in Laconia, southern Greece. It lies in the plain by the Eurotas river, 6 km south of Sparta, east of the Taygetus mountains, along the Greek National Road 39 from Sparta to Gytheio. It was named after the ancient town Amyclae, the ruins of which are situated 2 km northeast of the village.\n\nAccording to some sources, the ancient town Amyclae ( - \"Amyklai\") was founded by Amyclas of Sparta, the son of Lacedaemon. In the second century AD, the traveller Pausanias was informed that the archaic site of Amyklai had its ancient origin as an Achaean stronghold that predated the \"Dorian invasion\", and modern archaeology has supported that view. The Bronze Age settlement lay on the slopes above the modern village of Amykles. It was conquered by the Spartans as the fifth of the surrounding settlements whose subjection initiated the history of Sparta, in the eighth century BC; the inhabitants of Amyklai took their places among the \"perioikoi\", members of autonomous groups of free but non-citizen inhabitants of Sparta. \n\nAbout the same time, there was erected at Amyklai the Sanctuary of Apollo, enclosing within its \"temenos\" the tumulus of Hyakinthos, a pre-Hellene divinity whose cult was conflated with that of Apollo, in the annual festival of the Hyakinthia. There have been finds of sub-Mycenaean votive figures and of votive figures from the Geometric period, but with a gap in continuity between them: \"it is clear that a radical reinterpretation has taken place\" Walter Burkert has observed, instancing many examples of this break in cult during the \"Greek Dark Ages\", including Amyklai (1985, p 49).\n\nAfter the Spartan conquest, Amyklai continued to hold the Gymnopaideia and the Hyakinthia, now celebrated in honor of \"Apollo Amyklaios\", given an even later political interpretation, as celebrating \"the political reconciliation of Doric Sparta (Apollo) with the Achaian population of Amyklai (Hyakinthos)\" (Hellenic Ministry of Culture). Nothing is heard yet of Apollo's sister Artemis at Amyklai, Burkert has pointed out. In the seventh or early sixth century, a colossal archaic helmeted effigy was made of bronze, taking the semi-aniconic form of a stout column with arms, holding a spear as well as the more familiar bow: \"ancient and made without artistry,\" Pausanias thought. \"Except for the face and the tips of its feet and hands it looks like a bronze pillar. It has a helmet on its head, and a spear and a bow in its hands. The base of the statue is shaped like an altar, and Hyakinthos is said to be buried in it.\" (\"Description\", III.6). In the mid-sixth century the face of Apollo had been veneered with gold from Lydia, the gift of Croesus. Later in the sixth century, Bathycles of Magnesia designed the Doric-Ionic temple complex later known as the \"throne of Apollo\". The archaic cult statue, set on the podium that was constructed to enclose the chthonic altar dedicated to Hyakinthos, was surrounded by a virtual encyclopedia of Greek mythology, to judge from Pausanias' enumeration of the subjects of the reliefs. The podium contained the altar to Hyakinthos and was faced with bas-reliefs and there were more bas-reliefs on the stoa-like building that surrounded on three sides the colossal column-shaped statue of the god. The \"analemma\" and \"peribolos\" of the sanctuary have been excavated. Architectural fragments show that the architecture combined Doric and Ionic architectural orders: some are exhibited in the Sparta Museum.\n\nBeside the cult of Apollo, the people of Amyklai also worshipped Dionysus, as \"Dionysos Psilax\". Pausanias noted that \"psila\" was Doric for wings— \"wine uplifts men and lightens their spirit no less than wings do birds\" he added by way of gloss: apparently it was hard for him to imagine an archaic winged Dionysus.\n\nTraditionally Amyklai was associated the residence of Tyndareus and his sons, the Dioscures.\n\nAmyclae became a bishopric in 1082, see Diocese of Amyclae.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2291078", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291078", "title": "Amyclae", "text": "Amyclae\n\nAmyclae or Amyklai () was a city of ancient Laconia, situated on the right or eastern bank of the Eurotas, 20 stadia south of Sparta, in a district remarkable for the abundance of its trees and its fertility. Amyclae was one of the most celebrated cities of Peloponnesus in the heroic age. It is said to have been founded by the Lacedaemonian king Amyclas, the father of Hyacinthus, and to have been the abode of Tyndarus, and of Castor and Pollux, who are hence called \"Amyclaei Fratres\". Amyclae is mentioned by Homer, and it continued to maintain its independence as an Achaean town long after the conquest of Peloponnesus by the Dorians. \n\nAccording to the common tradition, which represented the conquest of Peloponnesus as effected in one generation by the descendants of Heracles, Amyclae was given by the Dorians to Philonomus, as a reward for his having betrayed to them his native city Sparta. Philonomus is further said to have peopled the town with colonists from Imbros and Lemnos; but there can be no doubt that the ancient Achaean population maintained themselves in the place independent of Sparta for many generations. It was only shortly before the First Messenian War that the town was conquered by the Spartan king Teleclus. The tale ran, that the inhabitants of Amyclae had been so often alarmed by false reports of the approach of the enemy, that they passed a law that no one should mention the subject; and accordingly, when the Spartans at last came, and no one dared to announce their approach, \"Amyclae perished through silence:\" hence arose the proverb \"Amyclis ipsis taciturnior\" (\"quieter than Amyclae itself\"). After its capture by the Lacedaemonians Amyclae became a village, and was only memorable by the festival of the Hyacinthia celebrated at the place annually, and by the temple and colossal statue of Apollo, who was hence called \"Amyclaeus\". The throne on which this statue was placed was a celebrated work of art, and was constructed by Bathycles of Magnesia. It was crowned by a great number of bas-reliefs, of which an account is given by Pausanias.\n\nAmyclae is located approximately northeast of the modern village of Amykles, named after the ancient city. Whilst excavating the site, William Martin Leake discovered an imperfect inscription, the letters ΑΜΥ following a proper name, and leaving little doubt that the incomplete word was ΑΜΥΚΛΑΙΟΥ.\n"}
{"id": "2291079", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291079", "title": "Interstate 270 (Missouri–Illinois)", "text": "Interstate 270 (Missouri–Illinois)\n\nInterstate 270 (I-270) makes up a large portion of the outer belt freeway in the St. Louis, Missouri metropolitan area. The counterclockwise terminus of I-270 is at the junction with I-55 and I-255 in Mehlville, Missouri; the clockwise terminus of the freeway is at the junction with I-55 and I-70 north of Troy, Illinois. The entire stretch of I-270 is .\n\nI-270 between I-70 and I-55 was formerly designated I-244, a western bypass of St. Louis, Missouri. It was originally proposed by Missouri as I-144, but the road was a beltway (or part of one), so the American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials (AASHTO) assigned it the number I-244. By the late 1970s, the entire beltway (including today's I-255) was integrated as a part of I-270 for consistency. However, the politicians in Illinois started planning their supplemental freeway system in the mid-1970s and a section of Corridor 413 was included into the Interstate Highway System in April 1978. This caused a potential place of confusion in Pontoon Beach, Illinois, where I-270 would have intersected itself, and eventually the Illinois Department of Transportation (IDOT) decided on the I-255 numbering in 1980 (but not before considering renumbering an section to I-870).\n\nIn Missouri, I-270 diverges from at I-55 as a 10-lane freeway heading west of I-55's route but still maintaining a I-55's tendency to travel northward. I-270 intersects I-44 in a modified cloverleaf interchange that was rebuilt in the 1990s. Railroad overpasses and rocky bluffs between I-44 and Dougherty Ferry Road reduces the interstate to eight lanes for about 2 miles and this section is known for frequent traffic tie-ups during peak hours. This section was widened as of late 2013 to 5 lanes in each direction. I-270 meets up with I-64 with a stack interchange that was built from 1987 to 1993 (it was previously a cloverleaf that was a frequent source of backups).\n\nFrom Dougherty Ferry Road through I-70, it continues as a 10-lane Interstate, although the right lanes often serve as exit lanes. The intersection with Olive was upgraded to a single-point urban interchange in the mid-2000s, and during 2010–11, the interchanges with Route 364 (Page Avenue) and Dorsett Road were upgraded with the latter becoming a diverging diamond interchange in October 2010. Congestion in this area is severe to the point MoDOT has spent millions on various traffic control improvements since the 1990s. One of the safety improvements is a \"double white line\" that motorists are not permitted to cross (violation of that could lead to a fine of $500) that is located at the exits for I-70 in the northbound lanes. Other safety implementations include a special Maryland Heights police cruiser that is dedicated to traffic enforcement on this section of I-270, congestion warning signs, and traffic cameras.\n\nAt I-70, I-270 makes a transition from a north–south highway to an east–west highway though not signed as such until McDonnell Road, and will eventually become a six-lane highway by the time it reaches Lindbergh Road. It then meets I-170, which had its interchange rebuilt from 2001–04 during which a left exit lane in the westbound lane was corrected. This section of I-270 was a source of frequent backups during the late-afternoon hours until the interchange was rebuilt. A fatal accident in September 1999 spurred the rebuilding of the interchange although the accident did not occur at that location happening a mile east of the interchange. I-270 then passes various streets where every westbound exit connects to Dunn Road and one must use Dunn Road to access I-270 with the only exceptions being the Riverview, Lilac, and Route 367) exits. Since Dunn Road handles two-way traffic, this has become a safety and congestion issue that MoDOT wants to address in the near future.\n\nAt Lilac, I-270 constricts to four lanes as it crosses the Mississippi River on the New Chain of Rocks Bridges. Approaching Missouri and entering Illinois, I-270 transitions from a suburban Interstate to an exurban Interstate with farm fields and wooded land bordering the Interstate in the area to the immediately east and west of the river crossing. Once it crosses the Chain of Rocks Canal, I-270 will intersect four different highways providing access to communities in eastern Madison County: IL 3, Old Alton Road, IL 203 and IL 111. The interchange with IL 3 is a partial cloverleaf with the loop ramps in the northeast and southeast quadrants. The remaining two are cloverleaf interchanges, with the Old Alton Road/IL 203 interchange using a collector–distributor system with two folded diamonds due to the presence of railroad tracks between the two roadways. Once it passes IL 111, the speed limit increases to as the highway briefly becomes six lanes again with the junction with I-255. The highway then reverts to a four-lane highway offering diamond interchanges with IL 157 and IL 159 before meeting up with I-55/I-70 at the interchange that IDOT refers as the \"3 I's\". The eastbound I-270 meets the northeastbound combination of I-55 and I-70 which leave the intersection as northbound I-55 and eastbound I-70 which has adopted I-270's mile markings.\n\nThe section of I-270 on the Missouri side was completed by June 1964, while the section that was I-244 was completed by November 1968. The section from Illinois Route 3 (IL 3) to I-55 in Illinois was finished by May 1965.\n\nDuring the Great Flood of 1993, the New Chain of Rocks Bridge carrying I-270 over the Mississippi River was the only bridge open from St. Louis to Keokuk, Iowa, at one point. (All other bridges from the McKinley Bridge to the Keokuk Bridge were closed at the peak of that flood.)\n\nThe last major construction project on I-270 occurred from 1995 to 1998. Both the Missouri Department of Transportation (MoDOT) and IDOT upgraded I-270 to modern standards from Lilac Avenue to I-255. However, this section of I-270 is still at two lanes in each direction.\n\nOn September 13, 1999, a fatal accident involving a tractor-trailer occurred in the westbound lanes of I-270 in front of the now-defunct St. Thomas Aquinas-Mercy High School (now North County Christian School) in North St. Louis County. This accident sped up efforts that led to the I-170/I-270 interchange reconstruction that went from 2001 to 2004.\n\nA major accident and fire from a FedEx Ground truck between the Route 367 and Lilac Avenue exits on October 28, 2002, forced detours and lengthy delays.\n\nThere were plans to sign an section of I-270 from Glen Carbon to Edwardsville as I-870. However, this idea was discarded.\n\nIn 2008, MoDOT implemented new variable speed limits on I-270/I-255 with the normal limit being . However, due to complaints from the public, these signs were planned to be updated in 2011 to advisory signs.\nA section of I-270 between I-44 and Manchester was widened to five lanes in each direction, with work taking place between 2012 and 2013. This section of I-270 sees up to 185,000 vehicles per day, and peak hour congestion is common.\n\nIDOT wanted to widen I-270 from Lilac Avenue to I-255 from four lanes to six, but no money is available at the time of the proposal in 2007. However, IDOT has announced that nearly $100 million has been programmed for replacement of the canal bridges between 2011 and 2016. The canal bridges were replaced in Summer 2014, and imploded Winter 2015.\n\nMoDOT has also identified the need of improving the I-270 corridor in North St. Louis County, which could cost in the range of $200 million. MoDOT recently held a public study of this corridor and has a website of this. No funding is available for construction of the possible upgrades.\n\nThis highway is referenced in Chingy's song \"Holidae In\" although 270 does not intersect Natural Bridge Road.\n\n"}
{"id": "2291082", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291082", "title": "French 75", "text": "French 75\n\nFrench 75A or French '75 can be used to refer to: \n"}
{"id": "2291088", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291088", "title": "Sweetwater Creek (Chattahoochee River tributary)", "text": "Sweetwater Creek (Chattahoochee River tributary)\n\nSweetwater Creek is a stream in the U.S. state of Georgia, west of Atlanta. It begins in southwestern Paulding County, flowing generally eastward into southwestern Cobb County, then turning south into eastern Douglas County. It is a tributary of the Chattahoochee River, and near its end it is the centerpiece of Sweetwater Creek State Park.\n\nSweetwater Creek was named after AmaKanasta (Sweet Water), a Cherokee chieftain.\n\nSince 1904 there has been a stream gauge near Austell (actually in Lithia Springs), at latitude 33°46'22\"N, longitude 84°36'53\"W. The watershed area above this point is . It is above mean sea level. The flood stage at this point is . The identifier for this gauge is \"AUSG1\". \n\nMajor flooding occurred here in July 2005, after Hurricane Dennis dumped enormous amounts of rain across the Sweetwater Creek watershed, just after it had been soaked by Hurricane Cindy a few days before. The creek rose to one of its highest levels ever, flooding dozens of homes well beyond what was considered the 100-year flood plain. About of rain fell at the gauge before it was ruined by the flood.\n\nIn late September 2009, the worst flooding ever occurred on the creek, after days of heavy rain. New records were set, and many roads were left underwater by it, including Interstate 20, which was closed west of I-285 for nearly three days. The USGS stated that it was greater than a 500-year flood (it does not try to make any greater estimates). The National Weather Service said the chances of having more than of rain in a 24-hour period were less than 0.01% per year, making it a 10,000-year event.\n\nThe previous record flood was in July 1916. Base flow is around .\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2291091", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291091", "title": "Utility tunnel", "text": "Utility tunnel\n\nA utility tunnel, utility corridor, or utilidor is a passage built underground or above ground to carry utility lines such as electricity, steam, water supply pipes, and sewer pipes. Communications utilities like fiber optics, cable television, and telephone cables are also sometimes carried. One may also be referred to as a services tunnel, services trench, services vault, or cable vault. Smaller cable containment is often referred to as a cable duct or underground conduit. Direct-buried cable is a major alternative to ducts or tunnels.\n\nUtility tunnels are common in very cold climates where direct burial below the frost line is not feasible (such as in Alaska, where the frost line is often more than below the surface, which is frozen year round). They are also built in places where the water table is too high to bury water and sewer mains, and where utility poles would be too unsightly or pose a danger (like in earthquake prone Tokyo). Tunnels are also built to avoid the disruption caused by recurring construction, repair and upgrading of cables and pipes in direct burial trenches.\n\nUtility tunnels are also often common on large industrial, institutional, or commercial sites, where multiple large-scale services infrastructure (gas, water, power, heat, steam, compressed air, telecommunications cable, etc.) are distributed around the site to multiple buildings, without impeding vehicular or pedestrian traffic above ground. Due to the nature of these services, they may require regular inspection, repair, maintenance, or replacement, and therefore accessible utility tunnels are preferred instead of direct burying of the services in the ground.\n\nUtility tunnels range in size from just large enough to accommodate the utility being carried, to very large tunnels that can also accommodate human and even vehicular traffic.\n\nUtility tunnels are often installed in large industrial plants, as well as large institutions, such as universities, hospitals, research labs, and other facilities managed in common. Shared facilities, such as district heating, use superheated steam pipes routed through utility tunnels. On some university campuses, such as the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, many of the buildings are connected via large underground passages to allow easy movement of people and equipment.\n\nSome municipalities, such as Prague in the Czech Republic, have installed extensive underground utility tunnels, to allow installation and maintenance of utility lines and equipment without disrupting the historic streets above.\n\nUtility tunnels may attract urban explorers, who enjoy investigating hidden complex networks of spaces.\n\nSome of the largest and most famous utility tunnels are at Disney theme parks. They were first built for Walt Disney World's Magic Kingdom in Florida. Smaller utilidor systems are built under the central section of Epcot's Future World, primarily beneath Spaceship Earth and Innoventions, and formerly at Pleasure Island. Disneyland also has a small utilidor through Tomorrowland. The utilidors are a part of Disney's \"backstage\" (behind-the-scenes) area. They allow Disney employees (\"cast members\") to perform park support operations, such as trash removal, out of the sight of guests.\n\nUtilidors are above-ground enclosed utility conduits that are used in larger communities in the northern polar region where permafrost does not allow the normal practice of burying water and sewer pipes underground. They can in particular be found in Inuvik, Northwest Territories and Iqaluit, Nunavut. Not all older homes are connected, and these must rely on trucks to deliver water and remove sewage. Most homes in rural Alaska (off the road system) are not equipped with plumbing and require fresh water and waste to be transported by personal vehicle such as snowmobile or four-wheeler ATV. Villages with utilidors are considered more advanced.\n\nUtilidors may also be used to carry fuel lines, such as natural gas. They are not normally used to carry wiring for electric, telephone and television service, which are usually suspended from poles.\n\nThe advantages of utility tunnels are the reduction of maintenance manholes, one-time relocation, and less excavation and repair, compared to separate cable ducts for each service. When they are well mapped, they also allow rapid access to all utilities without having to dig access trenches or resort to confused and often inaccurate utility maps.\n\nOne of the greatest advantages is public safety. Underground power lines, whether in common or separate channels, prevent downed utility cables from blocking roads, thus speeding emergency access after natural disasters such as earthquakes, hurricanes, and tsunamis.\n\nThe following table compares the features of utility networks in single purpose buried trenches vs. the features of common ducts or tunnels:\nMany examples of utility tunnels are found in Japan, where government officials have sought ways to reduce the catastrophic effects of earthquakes in their tectonically active country. Their use, however, is not limited to that country, and there are many examples of such utility tunnels. These include:\n\n"}
{"id": "2291097", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291097", "title": "CIAO", "text": "CIAO\n\nCIAO may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2291100", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291100", "title": "Weidner Center for the Performing Arts", "text": "Weidner Center for the Performing Arts\n\nThe Weidner Center for the Performing Arts, also known as the WCPA or Weidner Center is a performing arts center in Green Bay, Wisconsin, on the University of Wisconsin–Green Bay campus. Named after the university's first chancellor, Edward Weidner, the venue opened January 15, 1993.\n\nThe Weidner Center's original gift came from surgeon David A. Cofrin (son of Austin E. Cofrin and namesake of UW-Green Bay's library) with the stipulation that the center be located on the UW-Green Bay campus and that it serve the community. The university used state funds for the project as the original plan for UW-Green Bay's campus included a performing arts center. Namesake chancellor Weidner began a fundraising campaign in the late 1980s that raised the remainder of the $18.4 million required for the building. The university calls the Weidner Center a \"'comm-university' center, supported by both the university and the communities of northeastern Wisconsin\".\n\nFor the Weidner Center's fifth anniversary, donations from the Cofrin family financed an expansion that included a new black-box theatre named Studio Two, later renamed the Jean Weidner Theatre in honor of Ed Weidner's wife. The renovation also expanded the ticket office, added more lobby restrooms, expanded backstage storage and dressing room space, constructed a semi-private dining area and food service elevator, and relocated the Weidner Center's administrative offices.\n\nCofrin Family Hall is the Weidner Center's main performance facility, seating 2,021 over three levels of seating. The capacity of Cofrin Family Hall depends on the type of performance, as the Weidner Center's two-section motorized thrust stage can be lowered and fitted with extra seats, typically for dramatic performances. Symphonic and other music-only performances routinely use the entire thrust. Cofrin Family Hall also contains a large pipe organ, the Wood Family Organ, built for the Weidner Center's acoustics. Nearly all of the Weidner Center's touring acts perform in Cofrin Family Hall, with eclectic programming that includes concerts, comedians, Broadway shows, children's programming, and more. UW-Green Bay holds its winter graduations in Cofrin Family Hall.\n\nThe UWGB Music department's Symphonic Band, Wind Ensemble, University Singers, and Concert Choir all perform two concerts per semester in Cofrin Family Hall, and the department's annual JazzFest takes place in Cofrin Family Hall in the spring.\n\nThe UWGB Theatre department performs in Cofrin Family Hall occasionally, putting on Cabaret in 2011. It performed another musical there in fall 2015 and participated in the Weidner Center's \"Stage Door\" educational theatre series in spring 2016 and 2017.\n\nFort Howard Hall, named for the Fort Howard Paper Company founded by donor Austin E. Cofrin, is a recital hall. It seats 200 in retractable theatre-style seating, and can seat 136 in a banquet-style setting. The room is used for receptions and pre-show dinners. The UWGB Music department is the most frequent academic user of the space, and holds its Student Honors Recital and several guest artist concerts and lectures there annually.\n\nBuilt in the style of a dance studio with mirrors and marley dance floor, Studio One is rarely used for its intended purpose, instead serving as a multipurpose space for the Weidner Center, and a reception area/backstage storage for the UWGB Theatre department when it is performing in the Jean Weidner Theatre.\n\nBuilt in the 1998 renovation and originally called Studio Two, the space was renamed the Jean Weidner Theatre after Edward Weidner's wife. Jean Weidner Theatre is a black-box style theatre that seats 90 in either a standard theatre style or a theatre in the round arrangement. Although it is part of the Weidner Center, the UWGB Theatre department oversees the space and is its primary user. The UWGB Music department holds most of its student recitals in the space, along with its Opera/Musical Theatre workshop.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2291104", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291104", "title": "Missouri Route 19", "text": "Missouri Route 19\n\nRoute 19 is a long state highway in Missouri. Its northern terminus is at U.S. Route 61 in New London and its southern terminus is at U.S. Route 63 on the north side of Thayer. Route 19 is one of Missouri's original 1922 highways, though it initially had a northern terminus at Route 14 (now Interstate 44) in Cuba and was later extended north.\n\nRoute 19 begins at U.S. Route 61 in New London. It then travels mainly south, forming an 8-mile concurrency with U.S. Route 54, 3 miles west of Farber. The highway intersects Interstate 70 near New Florence. It crosses the Missouri River on the Christopher S. Bond Bridge at Hermann. There is a concurrency with Missouri Route 100 through Hermann. It then forms a brief 1 mile concurrency with U.S. Route 50 at Drake. Through Owensville there is a concurrency with Route 28. The highway intersects Interstate 44 at Cuba. South of Cuba, the highway is designated as a scenic highway. It forms a concurrency with Route 8 through Steelville. It passes through the Ozark National Scenic Riverways and portions of the Mark Twain National Forest. The highway overlaps U.S. Route 60 in Winona and U.S. Route 160 in Alton. The highway terminates at U.S. Route 63 in Thayer.\n\nThe part from Drake north to US 54 east of Mexico was Route 45 from 1922 until about 1930.\n"}
{"id": "2291106", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291106", "title": "Tama-Re", "text": "Tama-Re\n\nThe Tama-Re village in Putnam County, Georgia (a.k.a. \"Kodesh\", \"Wahannee\", \"The Golden City\", \"Al Tamaha\") was an Egyptian-themed set of buildings and monuments established in 1993 on 476 acres near Eatonton by the Nuwaubian Nation. This was a religious movement that had a variety of esoteric beliefs and was led by Dwight D. York. Many of the African Americans in the community had resettled here from Brooklyn, New York, where the movement had been developing since about 1970.\n\nYork was prosecuted for child molestation, racketeering and financial charges; convicted in 2004, he was sentenced to 135 years in prison. As part of the verdict, the Tama-Re complex was sold under government forfeiture in 2005. The structures were mostly demolished, and the site cleared by the sheriff's department to prepare it for sale.\n\nOn January 15, 1993, Dwight York, longtime leader of a Muslim-related religious community in Brooklyn, New York, bought the property of 476 acres on 404 Shady Dale Road for $975,000. His followers began moving in from their former headquarters in Sullivan County, New York (some had moved there in the late 1980s) and Brooklyn.\n\nAfter the move, York declared affiliation with the Yamasee indigenous people, as well as a variety of Egyptian and esoteric themes, claiming that the community was descended from ancient migrants to the Americas from Egypt. York said \n\nIn 1997 and 1998, Victor Greig acted as York's representative in building and zoning matters as the community developed Tama-Re. He was cited by Putnam County Sheriff Howard Sills for building without a permit and for illegally operating a nightclub in a warehouse, which was not zoned for that use. Greig was fined $45,750 in April 1998 and appealed. His fine was reduced to $2,500, but the conviction was upheld.\n\nThe organization began to hold festivals on the property, with one netting about $500,000 in cash, according to an FBI agent's testimony.\n\nIn 1999, a lawsuit was filed attempting to enforce county zoning restrictions and prevent the Nuwaubians from using the property for anything other than residential and agricultural purposes. This led to a drawn-out, bitter tug of war between the Nuwaubians and the county authorities. At the annual week-long celebration \"Savior's Day\" (i.e. York's birthday) in June 1999, the county padlocked the nightclub warehouse.\n\nIn 2000, a security/paramilitary group called the Royal Guard Of Amen-Ra, Inc., owned by actor Wesley Snipes's \"Amen Ra Films\", filed BATF papers to set up a security training center next to the Tama-Re compound. The Nuwaubians claimed Snipes as one of their own, though a spokeswoman for Snipes denied any connection.\n\n\"New York Press\" in November 2000 described the constructions completed in the compound:\n\nNot long after you're pretty sure you've gone too far, roll up and over one last hill and the pyramids are right there. There's a black one and a gold one, and a brown-faced sphinx facing the road, and a tall obelisk, and an arch-shaped gate decorated with ankhs and other hieroglyphs, through which runs a road lined with statues of mostly animal-headed deities, all brightly painted in primary colors. Farther back, up on the rise, is a recognizable one, Isis, with ebony skin and her winged arms spread. No level of expectation can dilute the surprise–you can't believe what you're seeing. Tama-Re, Egypt of the West, has that Magic Kingdom quality.\n\nIn 2001, the \"Religious Movements Homepage Project\" at the University of Virginia reported on Tama-Re:\n\nArmed guards stand at the entrance to Tama-Re. Approximately 100 Nuwaubians live within 15 double-wide trailers within this complex. There are approximately another 400 more Nuwaubians within Putnam County (population 14,000). At this current complex the Nuwaubians have constructed an Egyptian-style village with two pyramids, obelisks, and statues of Egyptian leaders. The two pyramids are distinct in appearance and in usage. There is a gold pyramid that serves as a trade center. Within this pyramid one can find a bookstore and a clothing store. The other pyramid is painted black with colorful Egyptian symbols painted on the outside. This structure serves as a church. Within the church, loudspeakers play Egyptian chants 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.\n\nIn March 2002, the Nuwaubians finally submitted a permit application for the nightclub, now called a \"fellowship hall\", allowing them to use the building for the first time since it was padlocked. On 8 May 2002, the compound was raided by the FBI, ATF, and related forces from local, state, and federal departments. No shots were fired during the raid, although tear gas was used by FBI agents. Based on a lengthy investigation, authorities arrested York on charges of racketeering and child molestation, including transporting children across state lines for the purpose of sexual exploitation.\n\nAfter York was convicted and sentenced for these charges, in June 2005, the property was sold under government forfeiture by the U.S. Marshals Service for USD 1.1 million. About half of this money went to the Putnam County Sheriff's Department, while most of the rest was split between the FBI and IRS.\n\nOn 9 June 2005 workers began demolishing the Egyptian-styled façades. Putnam County Sheriff Howard Sills started the demolition by tearing down the front arch with a front-end loader. The land has since been entirely cleared of all Nuwaubian structures and the property was sold to a developer, who has since built a log style hunting lodge on the property. The property is owned by White Oak Plantation as of 2012.\n\n"}
{"id": "2291120", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291120", "title": "List of conservative parties in Canada", "text": "List of conservative parties in Canada\n\nThis is a list of conservative parties in Canada. There are a number of conservative parties in Canada, a country that has traditionally been dominated by two political parties, one liberal and one conservative. The span between the 2015 Newfoundland and Labrador provincial election and the 2016 Manitoba provincial election was the first time since 1943 when no party with the word \"Conservative\" in its name formed the government in either a provincial or federal jurisdiction.\n\nThe Progressive Conservative Party of Canada was the primary conservative party in Canada from 1942 to, at least, 1993. It was the descendant of Sir John A. Macdonald's Liberal-Conservative Party. The party had its roots in the Great Coalition of 1864 that paved the way for Canadian confederation and was known under various names but was generally referred to unofficially as the Tories or \"Conservative Party\". In 1942, it became \"Progressive Conservative\" upon the election of Liberal-Progressive Premier of Manitoba John Bracken as leader in that year.\n\nThe Conservatives, and later the Progressive Conservatives, formed the government in Canada, alternating with the Liberal Party of Canada, from 1867-1873, 1878-1896, 1911–1921, 1926, 1930-1935, 1957-1963, 1979-1980 and 1984-1993. Throughout the period from the first election in 1867 to the 1993 election, the national conservative party always formed the government or the official opposition under the names \"Liberal-Conservatives\", \"Unionists\", \"Conservatives\" or Progressive Conservatives\".\n\nIn 1993, the Progressive Conservatives went from majority government to holding only two of 295 seats in the House of Commons of Canada, this was the first time they had done worse than third place in the House, and only the second time they had placed worse than second (the other time being in the 1921 election): they in fact placed fifth and last in terms of parties represented in the commons behind the Liberals, the Reform Party of Canada, the Bloc Québécois and the New Democratic Party.\n\nThe Reform Party was a populist conservative party based in Western Canada which cut into traditional PC support while the Bloc was a Quebec separatist party which cut into the support of the PCs in Quebec where they traditionally won support for their decentralization stance. Reform and the PCs finished with similar popular vote totals in the 1993 and subsequent elections but, under the first past the post electoral system the Reformers won many more seats due to their strong regional support in the West versus the thin national support for the PCs across Canada.\n\nIn the 1997 election, the PCs and Reform continued to run approximately at par in popular vote and both increased their share of seats: Reform from 52 to 60 and Progressive Conservatives from two to 20. Despite this, neither rivalled the Liberals for power and the Reformers tried to \"unite the right\" with their United Alternative initiative. This talks were non-starters for many Progressive Conservatives who saw themselves as the national party of Sir John A. Macdonald, however the United Alternative did attract some provincial Blue Tories and renamed itself the \"Canadian Reform Conservative Alliance\", known publicly as the Canadian Alliance.\n\nIn the 2000 election, the PCs were reduced to 12 seats, while the new Canadian Alliance gained seats. Following the election and despite Alliance leadership troubles, the PCs were unable to make significant gains in opinion polls and former Prime Minister Joe Clark resigned as leader. Following Clark's resignation as leader, Peter Mackay was elected at the 2003 PC leadership convention. Mackay began a process of talks which led to the merger of the PCs with the Alliance and the creation of a new Conservative Party of Canada. This alienated many Red Tories, including Clark, who refused to join the new party.\n\nThe successful merger of the Progressive Conservatives and the Canadian Alliance was followed by moderate success in the 2004 election in which the new party won 99 of 308 seats, an increase from its total of 72 of 301 seats prior to the election and 78 seats won between the two parties in 2000. Detractors pointed to the fact, however, that the new party received 7% less in popular vote than the total of the two forerunner parties in 2000. The Liberals, however, were reduced to a minority government.\n\nOutgoing Canadian Alliance leader Stephen Harper had been chosen as leader of the new party just prior to the 2004 election which provided a dual handicap for the party. It did not allow the party much time to combine and consolidate the bases of the two founding parties and it allowed the Liberals to define the party as the \"Alliance Conservatives\", insuating that it was the result of a hostile takeover by the Alliance which was viewed by many in Ontario, Quebec and Atlantic Canada as \"too far to the right\". These claims were bolstered by former PC Prime Minister Clark's lukewarm endorsement of the Liberals, having said Canadians would be best to choose \"the devil you know (Liberal leader Paul Martin) than the devil you don't (Harper)\".\n\nMartin had come into office on December 12, 2003, following a long battle with his predecessor, Jean Chrétien for control of the Liberal Party. Martin had been a very successful and popular finance minister under much of Chrétien's term and was expected to dominate politics and win a commanding majority, perhaps of record size, once he was at the helm. The merger of the conservative movement was not viewed as a large impediment to this goal when it occurred almost simultaneously with Martin's rise to power. However, the sponsorship scandal, which saw some Liberal supporters fraudulantely acquire government funds, and particularly Martin's response to it caused him to slip in the polls.\n\nDuring the 2004 campaign, Harper actually led in the polls for some time, but Martin launched a successful series of attack ads painting Harper to the right. This campaign was actually given a boost by Harper, who began to muse about winning a majority government, when polls showed most Canadians were uncomfortable with such a prospect, and by some Conservative candidates who made statements on controversial social issues.\n\nHarper briefly mused about giving up the leadership following the election defeat but carried forward with considerable optimism despite trailing the Liberals significantly in the polls. The Gomery Commission, which was appointed by Martin to investigate the sponsorship scandal, gave new fuel to the Conservatives. In the spring of 2005, it projected the Conservatives back into the lead in the polls and Martin held a rare live address on television to ask Canadians to give him 10 more months to govern, in which time the Gomery Commission would finish its work and release a report on its investigation, and then he would call an election. The Conservatives moved forward to defeat the government but their efforts to defeat a motion of confidence in the government were prevented by the high-profile crossing of the floor by Belinda Stronach. Stronach had finished second to Harper in the leadership race just a year before but joined the Liberals saying Harper was risking national unity by trying to defeat the government with the aid of the Bloc Québécois.\n\nDuring the summer, the Conservatives slipped back in the polls again and there were renewed questions of Harper's leadership and the potential success of the new party. One poll showed that 60% of Canadians thought Harper should resign. In the fall session of Parliament, despite trailing in opinion polls, Harper tried again to defeat the government. This time he was joined by all opposition parties and his motion of no confidence was passed on November 28, 2005.\n\nHarper set out on a campaign focussed heavily on policy which allowed him to dominate the headlines for the first weeks of the campaign. The Liberals opted to campaign low key until after the Christmas holiday season. By January, the Liberals began their campaign in earnest, but by this time Harper had begun to capture the minds of Canadians and the Liberals were struck by a Royal Canadian Mounted Police investigation into an income trusts scandal. The Conservatives began to take a lead in the polls, and following a strong showing in the debates among the main party leaders by Harper, the Conservatives surged into a convincing lead. The Liberals again launched a series of attack ads against Harper, however polls showed that Canadians had grown comfortable with Harper over the course of the first few weeks in which he ran a positive campaign virtually unopposed by the Liberals.\n\nIn the 2006 election held on January 23, the Conservatives won a bare plurality of seats, besting the Liberals 124 to 103. They formed a minority government with just 40.3% of the seats in the House of Commons. In 2018, sitting Conservative MP Maxime Bernier (Beauce) quit the Conservative Party to form his own right-leaning party: the People's Party of Canada.\n\n\nA number of Canadian provinces still have \"Progressive Conservative\" parties, or parties that once used that name and remained so independently of the federal change. Each party remains the largest conservative one in its respective province.\n\n\nThe Yukon Party, and British Columbia Conservative Party both once used the name \"Progressive Conservative\", but changed their names in the past 15 years. The British Columbia (Progressive) Conservative Party's fortunes declined in 1952, with the rise of the British Columbia Social Credit Party under former BC Conservative Member of the Legislative Assembly W.A.C. Bennett. The last BC Conservative MLA elected was Victor Albert Stephens—in a 1978 by-election. The United Conservative Party which forms the government in Alberta, was a merger of the \"Progressive Conservative Association\" and the Wildrose Party.\n\nIn Quebec, the \"Union Nationale\" was an important conservative party that formed the government for twenty-five of the thirty-four years between 1936 when it first formed government to 1970 when the last UN government was defeated. It was founded by a merger of the Quebec Conservative with a small faction that had split from the Quebec Liberal Party. There have been two attempts to revive the Conservative banner in Quebec, the Progressive Conservative Party of Quebec in the 1980s and the modern Quebec Conservative Party founded in 2009. The Action démocratique du Québec was a conservative split from the Quebec Liberal Party and existed from 1994 until 2012 when it merged with the Coalition Avenir Québec (CAQ). At its peak in the 2007 Quebec election, the ADQ won over 30% of the vote and formed the official opposition. Équipe Autonomiste was formed by former ADQ supporters after its merger with the CAQ.\n\nThe following conservative parties have seats in provincial legislatures:\n\nThe Canadian social credit movement consisted of a number of social conservative parties and organizations in Western Canada and Quebec. The most significant of these parties were the Social Credit Party of Alberta (an antecedent of the Reform Party of Canada) and the British Columbia Social Credit Party which ruled their respective provinces for decades. The Social Credit Party of Canada and the Quebec-based Ralliement créditiste were important third parties in the House of Commons of Canada for several decades.\n"}
{"id": "2291124", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291124", "title": "Missouri Route 37", "text": "Missouri Route 37\n\nRoute 37 is a highway in southwest Missouri. Its northern terminus is at U.S. Route 160 in Golden City (it shares this terminus with Route 126); its southern terminus is at the Arkansas state line where it continues as Highway 37, though it only runs \"very\" briefly before ending at U.S. Route 62 in Gateway, Arkansas.\n\nRoute 37 begins at US 160 in Golden City as a short concurrency with Route 126. After a few blocks, Route 37 turns south. At Avilla, the highway intersects Route 96 and joins this highway (going west) for one mile (1.6 km) before turning south again. Near Sarcoxie is an intersection with Interstate 44. It will be united with Business I-44 to the east side of Sarcoxie, the two of them following an old alignment of U.S. Route 166. The highway turns southeast towards Pierce City where there is a brief wrong-way concurrency with Route 97.\n\nAt Monett, Route 37 intersects U.S. Route 60 and becomes part of the Trail of Tears Automobile Route all the way to the state line. At Cassville, Route 37 produces one of two official business routes and on the south side of the town it intersects Route 76/Route 86 and the northern terminus of Route 112. At Washburn is the eastern terminus of Route 90 and at Seligman is the southern terminus of Route 112. Three miles south of Seligman, Route 37 crosses the Arkansas state line where it becomes Arkansas Highway 37. About one half of a mile south of the state line, Arkansas 37 ends at U.S. Route 62.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2291129", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291129", "title": "Ruth Harkness", "text": "Ruth Harkness\n\nRuth Elizabeth Harkness (21 September 1900 - 20 July 1947) was an American fashion designer and socialite, who traveled to China in 1936 and brought out the first live giant panda to the United States - not in a cage, or on a leash, but wrapped in her arms.\n\nHarkness was born in Titusville, Pennsylvania. In 1934, her husband Bill Harkness had traveled to China in search of a panda, but died of throat cancer in Shanghai early in 1936. His widow Ruth, then living in New York City, decided to complete the mission herself.\n\nHarkness traveled to Shanghai, and with the help of a Chinese-American explorer named Quentin Young, and Gerald Russell, a British naturalist, launched her own panda mission. After passing through Chongqing and Chengdu, the team arrived at a mountainous region, where, on 9 November 1936, they encountered and captured a nine-week-old panda cub. The panda, which they named Su Lin after Young's sister-in-law, was bottle-fed baby formula on the journey back to Shanghai and the United States. Su lin meant the phrase `a little bit of something very cute`. Quentin migrated to the US in later years and felt he never go credit for his work in finding the Panda.\n\nThe panda caused a great sensation in the American press and eventually ended up at the Brookfield Zoo in Chicago.\n\nHarkness launched two subsequent expeditions in search of the giant panda. Harkness brought back a second panda, Mei-Mei, in 1937. She did not return with a giant panda on her third and final expedition.\n\nFollowing her time in China and the success of her book about her adventure with Su Lin, \"The Lady and the Panda\". Harkness travelled to Peru, where she chronicled her adventures in \"Pangoan Diary\", and Mexico, where she wrote for \"Gourmet\" magazine.\n\nAn IMAX film, \"\", was made about her expedition in 2001. As of 2016, \"Lady and the Panda\", a theatrical film about Harkness written and directed by Justin Chadwick, is in pre-production.\n\nWritten by Ruth Harkness:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2291133", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291133", "title": "Charlotte Jørgensen", "text": "Charlotte Jørgensen\n\nCharlotte Jørgensen (born 1972, age 48) is a Danish ballroom dancer.\n\nYoung Charlotte began dancing at the early age of 2 years old, in 1974. She took ballet classes at age 10 in 1981, and her future was set — she wanted to be a dancer.\n\nBy the age of 22, in 1993, Jørgensen was already the World Amateur Champion. She became professional in 1994 with partner Jens Werner, Denmark and recently retired from the dance circuit. She partnered such dancers as Andrew Sinkinson, with whom she placed second in the British, UK, European, and World Championships. Since her retirement, she has become a ballroom trainer, and travels worldwide for coaching. She lives in Los Angeles.\n\nJørgensen participated in the first season (Summer 2005) of the American television series \"Dancing with the Stars\", partnering with actor John O'Hurley. They were the runners up, but subsequently won a \"rematch\" sponsored by ABC. Jørgensen and O'Hurley released the Bayview Films ballroom instructional video \"Learn to Dance with John and Charlotte\" on July 31, 2007.\n\nWith celebrity partner John O'Hurley: 25.1\n"}
{"id": "2291140", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291140", "title": "Illinois Route 111", "text": "Illinois Route 111\n\nIllinois Route 111 (IL 111) is an north–south state highway in the southwestern part of the U.S. state of Illinois. It travels from Short Street (near Lake Drive and northwest of Interstate 255) in Centreville to IL 104 in Waverly.\n\nIL 111 has concurrencies with IL 3 in Alton, U.S. Route 67 (US 67) in Godfrey, and IL 267 from Godfrey to Medora.\n\nIn August 1960, a new alignment in Alton on what is now the Homer M. Adams Parkway opened to traffic from IL 100 to IL 140. A second new alignment, Bellwood Road Extension in Bethalto, opened a few years later that would link IL 111 up with Vaughn and Central in Wood River. The original alignment of IL 111 in Alton had it cut up Sixth Street in Wood River, Old Alton–Edwardsville Road (with a concurrency with then-IL 159), and up Broadway in Alton until its concurrency with US 67 using Belle Street.\n\nSBI Route 111 originally traveled from Waverly to Alton on modern-day IL 111. In 1942, it was extended south to Fairmont City. In 1953, it was extended further south to near East Saint Louis, which became Centreville. In 2001, when US 67 was moved west through Jerseyville, IL 267 took its place north of Medora. Some time after, IL 267 was applied south along with IL 111 on a concurrency.\n\n"}
{"id": "2291147", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291147", "title": "Glen Plake", "text": "Glen Plake\n\nGlen Plake (born September 9, 1964) is a US National Ski Hall of Fame skier. He grew up in Lake Tahoe, skiing Heavenly Valley. He is known for his appearances in ski films such as Greg Stump's \"The Blizzard of Aahhhs\", and for his trademark often dyed Mohawk hairstyle, Plake is named the pioneer of extreme skiing in America by ESPN. Glen has been the award-winning host of RSN program \"Reel Thrills\".\n\nAccording to his official biography:\n\n\"... it was his third-grade teacher who used a Möbius flip from the seminal film \"Ski the Outer Limits\" (1969) as a way of demonstrating math that turned his life. For Glen, there fell into place a connection between skiing and the wider world, an understanding that there were deeper forces beneath this sliding on snow. In that brief flash of insight, Plake knew that skiing held something greater for him.\"\n\nGlen Plake married his wife Kimberly in 1991. He is also related to Hunter & Dakota Plake with \"Plake\", the brother pop duo from Baton Rouge, Louisiana.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nWhile not an exhaustive list, Plake has been featured in a number of ski films, including:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2291148", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291148", "title": "Missouri Route 97", "text": "Missouri Route 97\n\nRoute 97 is a highway in southwest Missouri. Its northern terminus is at Route 32 eight miles (13 km) south of El Dorado Springs; its southern terminus is at Route 86, four miles north of Wheaton.\n\nRoute 97 starts at a curve of Route 32, 8 miles south of El Dorado Springs. Runs south for 8 miles, where State Hwy B joins it for a 2-mile stretch to the western edge of Jerico Springs. On the western side of Jerico Springs, the road turns to the east. In downtown Jerico Springs, Hwy B continues straight; while 97 turns to the south. 3 miles south of Jerico Springs, at the junction of State Hwy D, 97 turns east for a few miles, before turning back south to Lockwood. At Lockwood, 97 intersects US Route 160. It then crosses the BNSF railroad in downtown Lockwood; then runs south for 14 miles to a junction with Missouri Route 96. After crossing 96, it passes through Stotts City; then 2 miles south of Stotts City; it crosses I-44 at exit 38; then it turns west on the old US Route 166 roadbed for 2 miles, before turning left (south) to go to Pierce City. In Pierce City, it shares a 2 block stretch of Missouri Route 37; before turning south again. Two miles south of Pierce City, it intersects US Route 60 at Yonkerville; also the home of the Monett Municipal Airport. Route 97 runs south for 7 miles, passing the unincorporated community of Pulaskifield. South of Pulaskifield, it intersects State Route B, then turns west for 2 miles to its southern terminus at Missouri Route 86; four miles north of Wheaton.\n"}
{"id": "2291152", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291152", "title": "Ilango Adigal", "text": "Ilango Adigal\n\nIlango Adigal is traditionally credited as the author of \"Silappatikaram\", one of the Five Great Epics of Tamil literature. In a \"patikam\" (prologue) to the epic poem, he identifies himself as the brother of a famous Chera king Ceṅkuṭṭuvan (Senguttuvan). This Chera king, states Elizabeth Rosen, ruled over his kingdom in late 2nd or early 3rd century CE. However, this is doubful because a Sangam poem in \"Patiṟṟuppattu\" – the fifth ten – provides a biography of Ceṅkuṭṭuvan, his family and rule, but never mentions that he had a brother who became an ascetic or wrote one of the most cherished epics. This has led scholars to conclude that the legendary author Ilango Adikal myth was likely inserted later into the epic. In a 1968 note, Kamil Zvelebil suggested that, \"this [Adigal claim] may be a bit of poetic fantasy, practised perhaps by a later member of the Chera Dynasty [5th or 6th century] recalling earlier events [2nd or 3rd century]\".\n\nIḷaṅkõ Aṭikaḷ (\"lit.\" \"the venerable ascetic prince\"), also spelled Ilango Adigal or Ivangovadigal, is traditionally believed to be the author of \"Silappatikaram\". No direct verifiable information is available about him. He is believed to have been a prince who became a Jain ascetic based on a \"patikam\" (prologue) composed and interpolated into the epic many centuries later. Ilango is considered the younger son of Chera king Nedum Cheralatan and Sonai/Nalchonai of the Chola dynasty. His elder brother is believed to be Senguttuvan, the reputed warrior-king. However, these traditional beliefs are doubtful because the Sangam era text \"Patiṟṟuppattu\" provides a biography of king Nedum Cheralatan and of king Senguttuvan, and in neither is Ilango Adigal ever mentioned.\n\nThe author was possibly a Jaina scholar, as in several parts of the epic, the key characters of the epic meet a Jaina monk or nun. The last canto of the epic, lines 155-178, mentions \"I also went in\", whose \"I\" scholars have assumed to be the author Adigal. The epic also mentions, among other details, the \"Gajabahu synchronism\". These verses state Adikal attended the Vedic sacrifice by king Senguttuvan in the presence of Gajabahu, someone believed to have been the king of Ceylon (Sri Lanka) between 171-193 CE. This has led to the proposals that Adikal lived in the same period. These lines also mention that he became a \"sannyasi\" in a monastery outside Vanci – the capital of the 2nd-century Chera kingdom (now parts of Kerala). This declaration has been interpreted as renouncing and becoming a Jain monk. According to Kamil Zvelebil, all this must have been a fraudulent statement added by Ilango Adikal to remain a part of the collective memory in the epic he wrote. Adikal was likely a Jain who lived a few centuries later, states Zvelebil, and his epic \"cannot have been composed before the 5th- or 6th-century\". \n\nGananath Obeyesekere – a scholar of Buddhism, Sri Lankan religious history and anthropology, considers the epic's claims of Gajabahu and the kinship between Ilango Adigal and Senguttuvan to be ahistorical, and that these lines are likely \"a late interpolation\" into the Tamil epic. The author was likely not a prince, nor had anything to do with the Chera dynasty, says R Parthasarathy, and these lines may have been added to the epic to give the text a high pedigree status, gain royal support, and to \"institutionalize the worship of goddess Pattini and her temples\" in the Tamil regions as is described in the epic.\n\nAccording to Ramachandra Dikshitar, the ascetic-prince legend about Ilango Adigal as included in the last canto of \"Silappadikaram\" is odd. In the epic, Ilango Adigal attends a Vedic sacrifice with the Chera king Cenkuttuvan after the king brings back the Himalayan stone to make a statue of Kannaki. If the author Ilango Adigal was a Jain ascetic, and given our understanding of Jainism's historic view [rejection] of the Vedas and Vedic sacrifices, why would he attend a function like the Vedic sacrifice, states Ramachandra Dikshitar. This, and the fact that the epic comfortably praises Shaiva and Vaishnava lifestyle, festivals, gods and goddesses, has led some scholars to propose that the author of \"Silappatikaram\" epic was a Hindu.\n\nAccording to another Tamil legend, an astrologer predicted that he would become the ruler of the land. To stop this, and let his elder brother be the king, the prince became a Jain monk taking the name of Ilango Adigal.\n\nThe \"Silappatikaram\" epic credited to Ilango Adigal inspired another Tamil poetic epic called \"Manimekalai\". This poetic epic acts as a sequel to Silappatikaram. It revolves around the daughter of Kovalan (The protagonist of Silappatikaram) and Madhavi (Who had an affair with Kovalan in Silappatikaram), named Manimekalai. Although Manimekalai's mother was Madhavi, she worshipped goddess Pattini (Kannaki, Kovalan's wife).\n\n"}
{"id": "2291153", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291153", "title": "List of lakes of Japan", "text": "List of lakes of Japan\n\nThe list of lakes in Japan ranked by surface area.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2291159", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291159", "title": "Kamyenyets", "text": "Kamyenyets\n\nKamyanyets (also spelled as Kamianiec, Kamenets, Kamieniec; , , , \"Kamenits\", ; ) is a town in the Brest Region of Belarus and the center of the Kamyenyetski Rajon. The town is located in the northwestern corner of Brest Region on the Lyasnaya river, about 40 km north from Brest. In 2002, the population was about 9,000 people. The Leśna Prawa river flows through the town.\n\nIt was first mentioned in the Halych-Volhynian Chronicle in 1276, when a castle with a keep, the tower of Kamyenyets, was being constructed on this spot, to protect the northern boundary of Volhynia from the raids of invaders. This site on the stony steep bank of the Liasnaja (Lysna or Leśna) River had attracted Oleksa, the prominent builder and architect of Volhynia. He showed the site to Vladimir Vasilkovich, the Prince of Volhynia, who appreciated the place and ordered Oleksa to build a castle with a keep on the spot. Later a town appeared around the fortification. The tower is often called \"Bielaja Vieža\" (alternative transliteration: \"Belaya Vezha\"), which means \"White Tower\" or \"White Fortress\" in Belarusian, because after its foundation it was tiled in white. The neighboring primeval forest of Belavezhskaya Pushcha received its name, which also means \"White Tower\", through association with the tower. However, today the color of the castle is brick-red, having weathered through the ages, not white.\n\nThe original name of the town comes from the Slavic word \"kamennyj\" which means \"stony\" in English, as it was founded atop a stony rise.\n\nIn 1366, it was incorporated into the Grand Duchy of Lithuania and in 1376 it was burnt by Teutonic Crusaders but rapidly rebuilt. In 1503, local townsfolk received a limited self-administration right (probably the Magdeburg Rights) that was used by 1795, when it was annexed by Russia. In 1588 and 1659, the town was devastated with plague.\n\nIn the 19th century and the first four decades of the 20th century, local Jewish community was the most active part of the townsfolk. Memories of the town are included in Yechezkel Kotik's memoir, published in English as \"Journey To a Nineteenth Century Shtetl: The Memoirs of Yekhezkel Kotik\".\n\nIn the years 1921-1939 it was in Poland. In 1939, it was occupied by Soviet Union and annexed to the Belorussian SSR. From 23 June 1941 until 22 July 1944, Kamyenyets was occupied by Nazi Germany and administered as a part of Bezirk Bialystok. During the Nazi occupation, most local Jews were killed.\n\nAfter World War II, the town developed as a minor center of the food processing industry (cheese and butter making, baking of bread, etc.).\n\nThe main historical attraction is the donjon that accommodates a museum. There are also St Simeon's Orthodox church (1914); Sts Peter and Paul Roman Catholic church (1925) and Roman Catholic cemetery of the 18th - early 20th centuries. The building of a synagogue (used until 1941). Since 2009, there has been an annual historical Belaja Vezha Festival organized by local people.\n\n"}
{"id": "2291161", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291161", "title": "Missouri Route 38", "text": "Missouri Route 38\n\nRoute 38 is a highway in southern Missouri. Its eastern terminus is at Route 17 ten miles (16 km) west of Houston; its western terminus is at U.S. Route 65 about ten miles (16 km) south of Buffalo.\n"}
{"id": "2291162", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291162", "title": "Prochirality", "text": "Prochirality\n\nIn stereochemistry, prochiral molecules are those that can be converted from achiral to chiral in a single step. An achiral species which can be converted to a chiral in two steps is called proprochiral.\n\nIf two identical substituents are attached to a sp-hybridized atom, the descriptors \"pro\"-R and \"pro\"-S are used to distinguish between the two. Promoting the \"pro\"-R substituent to higher priority than the other identical substituent results in an \"R\" chirality center at the original sp-hybridized atom, and analogously for the \"pro\"-S substituent.\n\nA trigonal planar sp-hybridized atom can be converted to a chiral center when a substituent is added to the \"re\" or \"si\" face of the molecule. A face is labeled \"re\" if, when looking at that face, the substituents at the trigonal atom are arranged in decreasing Cahn-Ingold-Prelog priority order in a clockwise order, and \"si\" if the priorities decrease in counter-clockwise order; note that the designation of the resulting chiral center as \"S\" or \"R\" depends on the priority of the incoming group.\n"}
{"id": "2291173", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291173", "title": "Chazy River", "text": "Chazy River\n\nChazy River is the name of two tributaries of Lake Champlain in Clinton County, New York in the United States.\n\nThe more northerly river is the Great Chazy River, which empties into Lake Champlain at King Bay in the Town of Champlain.\n\nThe more southerly river is the Little Chazy River, which empties into Lake Champlain north of Chazy Landing in the Town of Chazy.\n\n"}
{"id": "2291186", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291186", "title": "Corn stover", "text": "Corn stover\n\nCorn stover consists of the leaves, stalks, and cobs of maize (corn) (\"Zea mays\" ssp. \"mays\" L.) plants left in a field after harvest. Such stover makes up about half of the yield of a corn crop and is similar to straw from other cereal grasses; in Britain it is sometimes called corn straw. Corn stover is a very common agricultural product in areas of large amounts of corn production. As well as the non-grain part of harvested corn, the stover can also contain other weeds and grasses. Field corn and sweet corn, two different types of maize, have relatively similar corn stover.\n\nCorn stover (like various other kinds of stover) can be used as feed, whether grazed as forage, chopped as silage to be used later for fodder, or collected for direct (nonensilaged) fodder use. Maize forage is usually ensiled in cooler regions, but it can be harvested year-round in the tropics and fed as green forage to the animals. In the silage use case, it is usual for the entire plant (grain and stover together) to be chopped into pieces which are then crushed between rollers while harvesting. Maize silage is one of the most valuable forages for ruminants. In dairy farming, corn silage is primarily used as fodder for dairy cows during the winter season. Corn stover can be beneficial to beef cattle producers because the \"corn stover can provide a low cost feed source for mid-gestation beef cows\". In addition to the stalks, leaves, husks, and cobs remaining in the field, kernels of grain may also be left over from harvest. These left over kernels, along with the corn stover, serve as an additional feed source for grazing cattle. Over time, the stalks will decrease in value as feed, so farmers aim to graze the corn stover as soon as possible after harvest. The amount of grazing possible on a field of corn stover is \"between one and two months of grazing per cow per acre (50 cows on for one to two months).\"\n\nWhen corn stover is harvested intact (as opposed to the whole plant being chopped for silage, or the stover being left in the field by a combine), it can be cut and gathered by corn binders, which are reaper-binders designed specifically for maize. It can also be baled into large round bales.\n\nInstead of feed uses, corn stover can also be collected for use as bedding or litter for the livestock (that is, cellulosic bulk to catch and contain the animal manure), or it can be a vegetable manure that stays in the field as plant litter (serving as green manure, although less green than some others, with a higher C/N ratio). When used as bedding (barn litter), it is then removed and directly spread on the fields or composted (in long piles handled by loaders) for later field spreading. In either of the latter two use cases, it ends up as organic matter for soil amendment.\n\nThe feed and bedding uses of corn stover are common, but the plant litter/vegetable manure use is also common. The latter is true for any combination of two reasons: (1) it helps to maintain soil health, and (2) when the corn crop is used as a grain crop (as opposed to a silage crop), harvesting the (grainless) stover simply does not pay; there is often no market demand for it that outweighs its value on the farm as soil maintenance, which represents an economic factor of its own. Regular annual harvesting of the whole corn plant (chopping for silage) is more challenging to soil management than is using the corn as a grain crop and mulching the field with the stover. Reincorporating the organic matter is good for the soil, although it must be managed properly to prevent nitrogen robbery of the next crop, as the high C/N ratio causes available nitrogen (fixed nitrogen) to be hoarded by the soil microbes diligently digesting the cellulose and lignin. They can outcompete the plants for the nitrogen. There are both organic and nonorganic ways to augment the nitrogen supply. Animal urine and manure is the main organic way, whereas commercial fertilizer is the main nonorganic way; both ways provide urea, which the microbes digest with their urease.\n\nAnother use for corn stover is as fuel for bioenergy or as feedstock for bioproducts. It can be burned in furnaces to yield energy that steam turbines convert to electricity. It also has potential for cellulosic ethanol (biomass ethanol), which is “ethanol made from non-grain plant materials known as biomass.” However, with current technology, a large part of the biofuel potential of cellulose is wasted due to the strength of the glycosidic bonds that pair chains of D-glucose units. But if the commercialization of cellulosic ethanol advances enough technologically, biomass ethanol production would use the corn stover from the corn crop produced in areas around ethanol plants. Corn stover, due to the relative close proximity of the corn grain produced for ethanol production, “is by far the most abundant crop residue readily available today.” The free accessibility to corn stover makes it a prime candidate for biomass ethanol production. A new DuPont facility in Nevada, Iowa, is expected to generate 30 million gallons annually of cellulosic biofuel produced from corn stover residues. It opened in 2015, with full production provisionally delayed until 2017, with the plant being sold to a German biofuel company a year later.\n\nHHV: 19 MJ/kg DAF\n\n"}
{"id": "2291190", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291190", "title": "Natrocarbonatite", "text": "Natrocarbonatite\n\nNatrocarbonatite is a rare carbonatite lava which erupts from the Ol Doinyo Lengai volcano in Tanzania within the East African Rift of eastern Africa.\n\nWhereas most lavas are rich in silicate minerals, the natrocarbonatite lavas of Ol Doinyo Lengai are rich in the rare sodium and potassium carbonate minerals, nyerereite and gregoryite. \n\nDue to this unusual composition, the lava is erupted at relatively low temperatures (approximately 500-600 °C). This temperature is so low that the molten lava appears black in sunlight, rather than having the red glow common to most lavas. It is also much more fluid than silicate lavas.\n\nThe sodium and potassium carbonate minerals of the lavas erupted at Ol Doinyo Lengai are unstable at the Earth's surface and susceptible to rapid weathering, the minerals are anhydrous and when they come into contact with the moisture of the atmosphere, they begin to react extremely quickly. \n\nThe black or dark brown lava and ash erupted begins to turn white within a few hours. The resulting volcanic landscape is different from any other in the world.\n\nNotable appearances\n\n"}
{"id": "2291192", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291192", "title": "International Society of Arboriculture", "text": "International Society of Arboriculture\n\nThe International Society of Arboriculture, commonly known as ISA, is an international non-profit organization headquartered in Atlanta, Georgia, USA. Its mission statement is: \"Through research, technology, and education, the International Society of Arboriculture (ISA) promotes the professional practice of arboriculture and fosters a greater worldwide awareness of the benefits of trees.\"\n\nThe International Society of Arboriculture (ISA) serves the tree care industry as a membership association and a credentialing organization that promotes the professional practice of arboriculture. ISA focuses on research, technology, and education to advance best tree care practices and deliver educational publications, services, events, and credentials that provide opportunities for tree care professionals to develop their knowledge, skills, and arboricultural expertise. ISA also works to educate the public about the benefits of trees and the need for proper tree care.\n\nWorldwide, ISA has more than 22,000 members and 31,000 ISA-certified tree care professionals with 59 chapters, associate organizations, and professional affiliates throughout North America, as well as in Asia, Australia, Europe, New Zealand, and South America.\n\n"}
{"id": "2291203", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291203", "title": "Missouri Route 32", "text": "Missouri Route 32\n\nRoute 32 is a highway in Missouri. Its eastern terminus is at the Mississippi River near Ste. Genevieve; its western terminus is at U.S. Route 54 in El Dorado Springs. It is currently one of the longest highways in the state. Most of the highway east of Lebanon is hilly and curvy, passing through a large part of the Missouri Ozarks.\n\nRoute 32 is one of the original Missouri highways from 1922. It originally ran only from Licking to Flat River (now Park Hills). Other portions were defined as Route 66 (El Dorado Springs to Fair Play), Route 13 (Fair Play to Buffalo), and Route 68 (Farmington to Ste. Genevieve). Route 66 replaced Route 13 to Buffalo in 1926, but by 1927 it became part of US 54. Route 32 also absorbed Route 68 in 1926 or 1927. Route 64, which had been designated in 1922 between Collins and Preston (now US 54), was extended east to Lebanon in the early 1930s, and by 1935 it had swapped alignments with US 54, becoming the El Dorado Springs-Lebanon route that now mostly carries Route 32. Route 32 was extended west to Lebanon by 1946, and it was later extended west, leaving only the Louisburg-Lebanon section of Route 64, which has since been extended west.\n\nThe highway begins at the beginning of state maintenance, at a point in the 300 block of 4th Street in Ste. Genevieve. City streets connect to a ferry providing passage across the Mississippi River to Illinois. Just before leaving the city, the route comes to an intersection with U.S. Route 61. Six miles further west is an interchange with Interstate 55 and eleven miles (18 km) west of the interstate is the northern junction of Route 144. At Farmington, the highway joins U.S. Route 67 for seven miles (6 km), then it exits at Leadington and turns into four lane to Saint Joe State Park U.S. Route 67 Business.\n\nAt Caledonia, the highway turns south and forms a four-mile (6 km) concurrency with Route 21, then turns west and enters the Mark Twain National Forest. In the national forest, the highway forms a six-mile (10 km) concurrency with Route 49. As the highway nears the western boundary of the Mark Twain National Forest, the highway joins Route 72, the two highways will be united to the west side of Salem. Nine miles west of Salem is the northern terminus of Route 119.\n\nAt Licking is the northern terminus of Route 137 and an intersection with U.S. Route 63. West of Licking, Route 32 enters another section of the Mark Twain National Forest. At Success, Route 32 turns north, joining Route 17 for four miles (6 km) then turns west again at Roby. At Lynchburg is the northern terminus of Route 95 and Route 32 turns north. Three miles northwest of Falcon, the highway leaves the Mark Twain National Forest.\n\nAt Lebanon, Route 32 joins Route 5 and has an interchange with Interstate 44, which also serves as the eastern terminus of Route 64. In Lebanon, the highway turns southwest and leaves the concurrency with Route 5 and Route 64.\n\nAt Buffalo, Route 32 forms a brief concurrency with Route 73, which it joins to the terminus of Route 73 at U.S. Route 65. The road then continues west, forming the main highway between the two county seats of Buffalo and Bolivar. At Bolivar, the highway intersect Route 83, and then intersects Route 13.\n\nAt Fair Play, Route 32 briefly joins Route 123 and begins a northwest route to the north side of Stockton Lake where the highway passes over the dam. At Stockton, it joins Route 39 briefly and continue west eventually reaching the northern terminus of Route 97. At this intersection, the highway turns due north for five miles (8 km) before reaching U.S. Route 54 and ending in eastern El Dorado Springs.\n"}
{"id": "2291204", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291204", "title": "Genetically modified crops", "text": "Genetically modified crops\n\nGenetically modified crops (GM crops) are plants used in agriculture, the DNA of which has been modified using genetic engineering methods. In most cases, the aim is to introduce a new trait to the plant which does not occur naturally in the species. Examples in food crops include resistance to certain pests, diseases, environmental conditions, reduction of spoilage, resistance to chemical treatments (e.g. resistance to a herbicide), or improving the nutrient profile of the crop. Examples in non-food crops include production of pharmaceutical agents, biofuels, and other industrially useful goods, as well as for bioremediation.\n\nFarmers have widely adopted GM technology. Acreage increased from 1.7 million hectares in 1996 to 185.1 million hectares in 2016, some 12% of global cropland. As of 2016, major crop (soybean, maize, canola and cotton) traits consist of herbicide tolerance (95.9 million hectares) insect resistance (25.2 million hectares), or both (58.5 million hectares). In 2015, 53.6 million ha of GM maize were under cultivation (almost 1/3 of the maize crop). GM maize outperformed its predecessors: yield was 5.6 to 24.5% higher with less mycotoxins (−28.8%), fumonisin (−30.6%) and thricotecens (−36.5%). Non-target organisms were unaffected, except for \"Braconidae\", represented by a parasitoid of European corn borer, the target of \"Lepidoptera\" active Bt maize. Biogeochemical parameters such as lignin content did not vary, while biomass decomposition was higher.\n\nA 2014 meta-analysis concluded that GM technology adoption had reduced chemical pesticide use by 37%, increased crop yields by 22%, and increased farmer profits by 68%. This reduction in pesticide use has been ecologically beneficial, but benefits may be reduced by overuse. Yield gains and pesticide reductions are larger for insect-resistant crops than for herbicide-tolerant crops. Yield and profit gains are higher in developing countries than in developed countries.\n\nThere is a scientific consensus that currently available food derived from GM crops poses no greater risk to human health than conventional food, but that each GM food needs to be tested on a case-by-case basis before introduction. Nonetheless, members of the public are much less likely than scientists to perceive GM foods as safe. The legal and regulatory status of GM foods varies by country, with some nations banning or restricting them, and others permitting them with widely differing degrees of regulation.\n\nHowever, opponents have objected to GM crops on grounds including environmental impacts, food safety, whether GM crops are needed to address food needs, whether they are sufficiently accessible to farmers in developing countries and concerns over subjecting crops to intellectual property law. Safety concerns led 38 countries, including 19 in Europe, to officially prohibit their cultivation.\n\nHumans have directly influenced the genetic makeup of plants to increase their value as a crop through domestication. The first evidence of plant domestication comes from emmer and einkorn wheat found in pre-Pottery Neolithic A villages in Southwest Asia dated about 10,500 to 10,100 BC. The Fertile Crescent of Western Asia, Egypt, and India were sites of the earliest planned sowing and harvesting of plants that had previously been gathered in the wild. Independent development of agriculture occurred in northern and southern China, Africa's Sahel, New Guinea and several regions of the Americas. The eight Neolithic founder crops (emmer wheat, einkorn wheat, barley, peas, lentils, bitter vetch, chick peas and flax) had all appeared by about 7,000 BC. Traditional crop breeders have long introduced foreign germplasm into crops by creating novel crosses. A hybrid cereal grain was created in 1875, by crossing wheat and rye. Since then traits including dwarfing genes and rust resistance have been introduced in that manner. Plant tissue culture and deliberate mutations have enabled humans to alter the makeup of plant genomes.\n\nModern advances in genetics have allowed humans to more directly alter plants genetics. In 1970 Hamilton Smith's lab discovered restriction enzymes that allowed DNA to be cut at specific places, enabling scientists to isolate genes from an organism's genome. DNA ligases, that join broken DNA together, had been discovered earlier in 1967 and by combining the two technologies it was possible to \"cut and paste\" DNA sequences and create recombinant DNA. Plasmids, discovered in 1952, became important tools for transferring information between cells and replicating DNA sequences. In 1907 a bacterium that caused plant tumors, \"Agrobacterium tumefaciens\", was discovered and in the early 1970s the tumor inducing agent was found to be a DNA plasmid called the Ti plasmid. By removing the genes in the plasmid that caused the tumor and adding in novel genes researchers were able to infect plants with \"A. tumefaciens\" and let the bacteria insert their chosen DNA sequence into the genomes of the plants. As not all plant cells were susceptible to infection by \"A. tumefaciens\" other methods were developed, including electroporation, micro-injection and particle bombardment with a gene gun (invented in 1987). In the 1980s techniques were developed to introduce isolated chloroplasts back into a plant cell that had its cell wall removed. With the introduction of the gene gun in 1987 it became possible to integrate foreign genes into a chloroplast. Genetic transformation has become very efficient in some model organisms. In 2008 genetically modified seeds were produced in \"Arabidopsis thaliana\" by simply dipping the flowers in an \"Agrobacterium\" solution. In 2013 CRISPR was first used to target modification of plant genomes.\n\nThe first genetically engineered crop plant was tobacco, reported in 1983. It was developed creating a chimeric gene that joined an antibiotic resistant gene to the T1 plasmid from \"Agrobacterium\". The tobacco was infected with \"Agrobacterium\" transformed with this plasmid resulting in the chimeric gene being inserted into the plant. Through tissue culture techniques a single tobacco cell was selected that contained the gene and a new plant grown from it. The first field trials of genetically engineered plants occurred in France and the US in 1986, tobacco plants were engineered to be resistant to herbicides. In 1987 Plant Genetic Systems, founded by Marc Van Montagu and Jeff Schell, was the first company to genetically engineer insect-resistant plants by incorporating genes that produced insecticidal proteins from Bacillus thuringiensis (Bt) into tobacco. The People's Republic of China was the first country to commercialise transgenic plants, introducing a virus-resistant tobacco in 1992. In 1994 Calgene attained approval to commercially release the Flavr Savr tomato, a tomato engineered to have a longer shelf life. Also in 1994, the European Union approved tobacco engineered to be resistant to the herbicide bromoxynil, making it the first genetically engineered crop commercialised in Europe. In 1995 Bt Potato was approved safe by the Environmental Protection Agency, after having been approved by the FDA, making it the first pesticide producing crop to be approved in the US. In 1996 a total of 35 approvals had been granted to commercially grow 8 transgenic crops and one flower crop (carnation), with 8 different traits in 6 countries plus the EU. By 2010, 29 countries had planted commercialised genetically modified crops and a further 31 countries had granted regulatory approval for transgenic crops to be imported.\n\nThe first genetically modified animal to be commercialised was the GloFish, a Zebra fish with a fluorescent gene added that allows it to glow in the dark under ultraviolet light. The first genetically modified animal to be approved for food use was AquAdvantage salmon in 2015. The salmon were transformed with a growth hormone-regulating gene from a Pacific Chinook salmon and a promoter from an ocean pout enabling it to grow year-round instead of only during spring and summer.\n\nGenetically engineered crops have genes added or removed using genetic engineering techniques, originally including gene guns, electroporation, microinjection and agrobacterium. More recently, CRISPR and TALEN offered much more precise and convenient editing techniques.\n\nGene guns (also known as biolistics) \"shoot\" (direct high energy particles or radiations against) target genes into plant cells. It is the most common method. DNA is bound to tiny particles of gold or tungsten which are subsequently shot into plant tissue or single plant cells under high pressure. The accelerated particles penetrate both the cell wall and membranes. The DNA separates from the metal and is integrated into plant DNA inside the nucleus. This method has been applied successfully for many cultivated crops, especially monocots like wheat or maize, for which transformation using \"Agrobacterium tumefaciens\" has been less successful. The major disadvantage of this procedure is that serious damage can be done to the cellular tissue.\n\n\"Agrobacterium tumefaciens-\"mediated transformation is another common technique. Agrobacteria are natural plant parasites. Their natural ability to transfer genes provides another engineering method. To create a suitable environment for themselves, these Agrobacteria insert their genes into plant hosts, resulting in a proliferation of modified plant cells near the soil level (crown gall). The genetic information for tumor growth is encoded on a mobile, circular DNA fragment (plasmid). When \"Agrobacterium\" infects a plant, it transfers this T-DNA to a random site in the plant genome. When used in genetic engineering the bacterial T-DNA is removed from the bacterial plasmid and replaced with the desired foreign gene. The bacterium is a vector, enabling transportation of foreign genes into plants. This method works especially well for dicotyledonous plants like potatoes, tomatoes, and tobacco. Agrobacteria infection is less successful in crops like wheat and maize.\n\nElectroporation is used when the plant tissue does not contain cell walls. In this technique, \"DNA enters the plant cells through miniature pores which are temporarily caused by electric pulses.\"\n\nMicroinjection is used to directly inject foreign DNA into cells.\n\nPlant scientists, backed by results of modern comprehensive profiling of crop composition, point out that crops modified using GM techniques are less likely to have unintended changes than are conventionally bred crops.\n\nIn research tobacco and \"Arabidopsis thaliana\" are the most frequently modified plants, due to well-developed transformation methods, easy propagation and well studied genomes. They serve as model organisms for other plant species.\n\nIntroducing new genes into plants requires a promoter specific to the area where the gene is to be expressed. For instance, to express a gene only in rice grains and not in leaves, an endosperm-specific promoter is used. The codons of the gene must be optimized for the organism due to codon usage bias.\n\nTransgenic plants have genes inserted into them that are derived from another species. The inserted genes can come from species within the same kingdom (plant to plant), or between kingdoms (for example, bacteria to plant). In many cases the inserted DNA has to be modified slightly in order to be correctly and efficiently expressed in the host organism. Transgenic plants are used to express proteins, like the cry toxins from \"B. thuringiensis\", herbicide-resistant genes, antibodies, and antigens for vaccinations. A study led by the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA) also found viral genes in transgenic plants.\n\nTransgenic carrots have been used to produce the drug Taliglucerase alfa which is used to treat Gaucher's disease. In the laboratory, transgenic plants have been modified to increase photosynthesis (currently about 2% at most plants versus the theoretic potential of 9–10%). This is possible by changing the rubisco enzyme (i.e. changing C plants into C plants), by placing the rubisco in a carboxysome, by adding pumps in the cell wall, or by changing the leaf form or size. Plants have been engineered to exhibit bioluminescence that may become a sustainable alternative to electric lighting.\n\nCisgenic plants are made using genes found within the same species or a closely related one, where conventional plant breeding can occur. Some breeders and scientists argue that cisgenic modification is useful for plants that are difficult to crossbreed by conventional means (such as potatoes), and that plants in the cisgenic category should not require the same regulatory scrutiny as transgenics.\n\nGenetically modified plants can also be developed using gene knockdown or gene knockout to alter the genetic makeup of a plant without incorporating genes from other plants. In 2014, Chinese researcher Gao Caixia filed patents on the creation of a strain of wheat that is resistant to powdery mildew. The strain lacks genes that encode proteins that repress defenses against the mildew. The researchers deleted all three copies of the genes from wheat's hexaploid genome. Gao used the TALENs and CRISPR gene editing tools without adding or changing any other genes. No field trials were immediately planned. The CRISPR technique has also been used by Penn State researcher Yinong Yang to modify white button mushrooms (\"Agaricus bisporus\") to be non-browning, and by DuPont Pioneer to make a new variety of corn.\n\nWith multiple trait integration, several new traits may be integrated into a new crop.\n\nGM food's economic value to farmers is one of its major benefits, including in developing nations. A 2010 study found that Bt corn provided economic benefits of $6.9 billion over the previous 14 years in five Midwestern states. The majority ($4.3 billion) accrued to farmers producing non-Bt corn. This was attributed to European corn borer populations reduced by exposure to Bt corn, leaving fewer to attack conventional corn nearby. Agriculture economists calculated that \"world surplus [increased by] $240.3 million for 1996. Of this total, the largest share (59%) went to U.S. farmers. Seed company Monsanto received the next largest share (21%), followed by US consumers (9%), the rest of the world (6%), and the germplasm supplier, Delta & Pine Land Company of Mississippi (5%).\"\n\nAccording to the International Service for the Acquisition of Agri-biotech Applications (ISAAA), in 2014 approximately 18 million farmers grew biotech crops in 28 countries; about 94% of the farmers were resource-poor in developing countries. 53% of the global biotech crop area of 181.5 million hectares was grown in 20 developing countries. PG Economics comprehensive 2012 study concluded that GM crops increased farm incomes worldwide by $14 billion in 2010, with over half this total going to farmers in developing countries.\n\nCritics challenged the claimed benefits to farmers over the prevalence of biased observers and by the absence of randomized controlled trials. The main Bt crop grown by small farmers in developing countries is cotton. A 2006 review of Bt cotton findings by agricultural economists concluded, \"the overall balance sheet, though promising, is mixed. Economic returns are highly variable over years, farm type, and geographical location\".\n\nIn 2013 the European Academies Science Advisory Council (EASAC) asked the EU to allow the development of agricultural GM technologies to enable more sustainable agriculture, by employing fewer land, water, and nutrient resources. EASAC also criticizes the EU's \"time-consuming and expensive regulatory framework\" and said that the EU had fallen behind in the adoption of GM technologies.\n\nParticipants in agriculture business markets include seed companies, agrochemical companies, distributors, farmers, grain elevators and universities that develop new crops/traits and whose agricultural extensions advise farmers on best practices. According to a 2012 review based on data from the late 1990s and early 2000s, much of the GM crop grown each year is used for livestock feed and increased demand for meat leads to increased demand for GM feed crops. Feed grain usage as a percentage of total crop production is 70% for corn and more than 90% of oil seed meals such as soybeans. About 65 million metric tons of GM corn grains and about 70 million metric tons of soybean meals derived from GM soybean become feed.\n\nIn 2014 the global value of biotech seed was US$15.7 billion; US$11.3 billion (72%) was in industrial countries and US$4.4 billion (28%) was in the developing countries. In 2009, Monsanto had $7.3 billion in sales of seeds and from licensing its technology; DuPont, through its Pioneer subsidiary, was the next biggest company in that market. As of 2009, the overall Roundup line of products including the GM seeds represented about 50% of Monsanto's business.\n\nSome patents on GM traits have expired, allowing the legal development of generic strains that include these traits. For example, generic glyphosate-tolerant GM soybean is now available. Another impact is that traits developed by one vendor can be added to another vendor's proprietary strains, potentially increasing product choice and competition. The patent on the first type of \"Roundup Ready\" crop that Monsanto produced (soybeans) expired in 2014 and the first harvest of off-patent soybeans occurs in the spring of 2015. Monsanto has broadly licensed the patent to other seed companies that include the glyphosate resistance trait in their seed products. About 150 companies have licensed the technology, including Syngenta and DuPont Pioneer.\n\nIn 2014, the largest review yet concluded that GM crops' effects on farming were positive. The meta-analysis considered all published English-language examinations of the agronomic and economic impacts between 1995 and March 2014 for three major GM crops: soybean, maize, and cotton. The study found that herbicide-tolerant crops have lower production costs, while for insect-resistant crops the reduced pesticide use was offset by higher seed prices, leaving overall production costs about the same.\n\nYields increased 9% for herbicide tolerance and 25% for insect resistant varieties. Farmers who adopted GM crops made 69% higher profits than those who did not. The review found that GM crops help farmers in developing countries, increasing yields by 14 percentage points.\n\nThe researchers considered some studies that were not peer-reviewed and a few that did not report sample sizes. They attempted to correct for publication bias, by considering sources beyond academic journals. The large data set allowed the study to control for potentially confounding variables such as fertilizer use. Separately, they concluded that the funding source did not influence study results.\n\nGM crops grown today, or under development, have been modified with various traits. These traits include improved shelf life, disease resistance, stress resistance, herbicide resistance, pest resistance, production of useful goods such as biofuel or drugs, and ability to absorb toxins and for use in bioremediation of pollution.\n\nRecently, research and development has been targeted to enhancement of crops that are locally important in developing countries, such as insect-resistant cowpea for Africa and insect-resistant brinjal (eggplant).\n\nThe first genetically modified crop approved for sale in the U.S. was the \"FlavrSavr\" tomato, which had a longer shelf life.<ref name=\"doi10.3733/ca.v054n04p6\"></ref> First sold in 1994, FlavrSavr tomato production ceased in 1997. It is no longer on the market.\n\nIn November 2014, the USDA approved a GM potato that prevents bruising.\n\nIn February 2015 Arctic Apples were approved by the USDA, becoming the first genetically modified apple approved for US sale. Gene silencing was used to reduce the expression of polyphenol oxidase (PPO), thus preventing enzymatic browning of the fruit after it has been sliced open. The trait was added to Granny Smith and Golden Delicious varieties. The trait includes a bacterial antibiotic resistance gene that provides resistance to the antibiotic kanamycin. The genetic engineering involved cultivation in the presence of kanamycin, which allowed only resistant cultivars to survive. Humans consuming apples do not acquire kanamycin resistance, per arcticapple.com. The FDA approved the apples in March 2015.\n\nPlants use non-photochemical quenching to protect them from excessive amounts of sunlight. Plants can switch on the quenching mechanism almost instantaneously, but it takes much longer for it to switch off again. During the time that it is switched off, the amount of energy that is wasted increases. A genetic modification in three genes allows to correct this (in a trial with tobacco plants). As a result, yields were 14-20% higher, in terms of the weight of the dry leaves harvested. The plants had larger leaves, were taller and had more vigorous roots.\n\nAnother improvement that can be made on the photosynthesis process (with C3 pathway plants) is on photorespiration. By inserting the C4 pathway into C3 plants, productivity may increase by as much as 50% for cereal crops, such as rice.\n\nSome GM soybeans offer improved oil profiles for processing. Camelina sativa has been modified to produce plants that accumulate high levels of oils similar to fish oils.\n\nGolden rice, developed by the International Rice Research Institute (IRRI), provides greater amounts of vitamin A targeted at reducing vitamin A deficiency.<ref name=\"doi10.1038/news.2011.233\"></ref> As of January 2016, golden rice has not yet been grown commercially in any country.\n\nA genetically modified cassava under development offers lower cyanogen glucosides and enhanced protein and other nutrients (called BioCassava).\n\nIn November 2014, the USDA approved a potato that prevents bruising and produces less acrylamide when fried. They do not employ genes from non-potato species. The trait was added to the Russet Burbank, Ranger Russet and Atlantic varieties.\n\nPlants have been engineered to tolerate non-biological stressors, such as drought, frost, and high soil salinity. In 2011, Monsanto's DroughtGard maize became the first drought-resistant GM crop to receive US marketing approval.\n\nDrought resistance occurs by modifying the plant's genes responsible for the mechanism known as the crassulacean acid metabolism (CAM), which allows the plants to survive despite low water levels. This holds promise for water-heavy crops such as rice, wheat, soybeans and poplar to accelerate their adaptation to water-limited environments. Several salinity tolerance mechanisms have been identified in salt-tolerant crops. For example, rice, canola and tomato crops have been genetically modified to increase their tolerance to salt stress.\n\nAs of 1999, the most prevalent GM trait was glyphosate-tolerance. Glyphosate (the active ingredient in Roundup and other herbicide products) kills plants by interfering with the shikimate pathway in plants, which is essential for the synthesis of the aromatic amino acids phenylalanine, tyrosine, and tryptophan. The shikimate pathway is not present in animals, which instead obtain aromatic amino acids from their diet. More specifically, glyphosate inhibits the enzyme 5-enolpyruvylshikimate-3-phosphate synthase (EPSPS).\n\nThis trait was developed because the herbicides used on grain and grass crops at the time were highly toxic and not effective against narrow-leaved weeds. Thus, developing crops that could withstand spraying with glyphosate would both reduce environmental and health risks, and give an agricultural edge to the farmer.\n\nSome micro-organisms have a version of EPSPS that is resistant to glyphosate inhibition. One of these was isolated from an \"Agrobacterium\" strain CP4 (CP4 EPSPS) that was resistant to glyphosate. The CP4 EPSPS gene was engineered for plant expression by fusing the 5' end of the gene to a chloroplast transit peptide derived from the petunia EPSPS. This transit peptide was used because it had shown previously an ability to deliver bacterial EPSPS to the chloroplasts of other plants. This CP4 EPSPS gene was cloned and transfected into soybeans.\n\nThe plasmid used to move the gene into soybeans was PV-GMGTO4. It contained three bacterial genes, two CP4 EPSPS genes, and a gene encoding beta-glucuronidase (GUS) from \"Escherichia coli\" as a marker. The DNA was injected into the soybeans using the particle acceleration method. Soybean cultivar A54O3 was used for the transformation.\n\nTobacco plants have been engineered to be resistant to the herbicide bromoxynil.\n\nCrops have been commercialized that are resistant to the herbicide glufosinate, as well. Crops engineered for resistance to multiple herbicides to allow farmers to use a mixed group of two, three, or four different chemicals are under development to combat growing herbicide resistance.\n\nIn October 2014 the US EPA registered Dow's Enlist Duo maize, which is genetically modified to be resistant to both glyphosate and 2,4-D, in six states. Inserting a bacterial aryloxyalkanoate dioxygenase gene, \"aad1\" makes the corn resistant to 2,4-D. The USDA had approved maize and soybeans with the mutation in September 2014.\n\nMonsanto has requested approval for a stacked strain that is tolerant of both glyphosate and dicamba. The request includes plans for avoiding herbicide drift to other crops. Significant damage to other non-resistant crops occurred from dicamba formulations intended to reduce volatilization drifting when sprayed on resistant soybeans in 2017. The newer dicamba formulation labels specify to not spray when average wind speeds are above to avoid particle drift, average wind speeds below to avoid temperature inversions, and rain or high temperatures are in the next day forecast. However, these conditions typically only occur during June and July for a few hours at a time.\n\nTobacco, corn, rice and some other crops have been engineered to express genes encoding for insecticidal proteins from Bacillus thuringiensis (Bt). The introduction of Bt crops during the period between 1996 and 2005 has been estimated to have reduced the total volume of insecticide active ingredient use in the United States by over 100 thousand tons. This represents a 19.4% reduction in insecticide use.\n\nIn the late 1990s, a genetically modified potato that was resistant to the Colorado potato beetle was withdrawn because major buyers rejected it, fearing consumer opposition.\n\nPapaya, potatoes, and squash have been engineered to resist viral pathogens such as cucumber mosaic virus which, despite its name, infects a wide variety of plants.\nVirus resistant papaya were developed in response to a papaya ringspot virus (PRV) outbreak in Hawaii in the late 1990s. They incorporate PRV DNA. By 2010, 80% of Hawaiian papaya plants were genetically modified.\n\nPotatoes were engineered for resistance to potato leaf roll virus and Potato virus Y in 1998. Poor sales led to their market withdrawal after three years.\n\nYellow squash that were resistant to at first two, then three viruses were developed, beginning in the 1990s. The viruses are watermelon, cucumber and zucchini/courgette yellow mosaic. Squash was the second GM crop to be approved by US regulators. The trait was later added to zucchini.\n\nMany strains of corn have been developed in recent years to combat the spread of Maize dwarf mosaic virus, a costly virus that causes stunted growth which is carried in Johnson grass and spread by aphid insect vectors. These strands are commercially available although the resistance is not standard among GM corn variants.\n\nIn 2012, the FDA approved the first plant-produced pharmaceutical, a treatment for Gaucher's Disease. Tobacco plants have been modified to produce therapeutic antibodies.\n\nAlgae is under development for use in biofuels. Researchers in Singapore were working on GM jatropha for biofuel production. Syngenta has USDA approval to market a maize trademarked Enogen that has been genetically modified to convert its starch to sugar for ethanol. Some trees have been genetically modified to either have less lignin, or to express lignin with chemically labile bonds. Lignin is the critical limiting factor when using wood to make bio-ethanol because lignin limits the accessibility of cellulose microfibrils to depolymerization by enzymes. Besides with trees, the chemically labile lignin bonds are also very useful for cereal crops such as maize, barley, and oats.\n\nCompanies and labs are working on plants that can be used to make bioplastics. Potatoes that produce industrially useful starches have been developed as well. Oilseed can be modified to produce fatty acids for detergents, substitute fuels and petrochemicals.\n\nScientists at the University of York developed a weed (\"Arabidopsis thaliana\") that contains genes from bacteria that could clean TNT and RDX-explosive soil contaminants in 2011. 16 million hectares in the US (1.5% of the total surface) are estimated to be contaminated with TNT and RDX. However \"A. thaliana\" was not tough enough for use on military test grounds. Modifications in 2016 included switchgrass and bentgrass.\n\nGenetically modified plants have been used for bioremediation of contaminated soils. Mercury, selenium and organic pollutants such as polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs).\n\nMarine environments are especially vulnerable since pollution such as oil spills are not containable. In addition to anthropogenic pollution, millions of tons of petroleum annually enter the marine environment from natural seepages. Despite its toxicity, a considerable fraction of petroleum oil entering marine systems is eliminated by the hydrocarbon-degrading activities of microbial communities. Particularly successful is a recently discovered group of specialists, the so-called hydrocarbonoclastic bacteria (HCCB) that may offer useful genes.\n\nCrops such as maize reproduce sexually each year. This randomizes which genes get propagated to the next generation, meaning that desirable traits can be lost. To maintain a high-quality crop, some farmers purchase seeds every year. Typically, the seed company maintains two inbred varieties and crosses them into a hybrid strain that is then sold. Related plants like sorghum and gamma grass are able to perform apomixis, a form of asexual reproduction that keeps the plant's DNA intact. This trait is apparently controlled by a single dominant gene, but traditional breeding has been unsuccessful in creating asexually-reproducing maize. Genetic engineering offers another route to this goal. Successful modification would allow farmers to replant harvested seeds that retain desirable traits, rather than relying on purchased seed.\n\nGenetic modifications to some crops also exist, which make it easier to process the crop, i.e. by growing in a more compact form. Also, some crops (such as tomatoes) have been genetic modified to contain no seed at all.\n\nThe number of USDA-approved field releases for testing grew from 4 in 1985 to 1,194 in 2002 and averaged around 800 per year thereafter. The number of sites per release and the number of gene constructs (ways that the gene of interest is packaged together with other elements) – have rapidly increased since 2005. Releases with agronomic properties (such as drought resistance) jumped from 1,043 in 2005 to 5,190 in 2013. As of September 2013, about 7,800 releases had been approved for corn, more than 2,200 for soybeans, more than 1,100 for cotton, and about 900 for potatoes. Releases were approved for herbicide tolerance (6,772 releases), insect resistance (4,809), product quality such as flavor or nutrition (4,896), agronomic properties like drought resistance (5,190), and virus/fungal resistance (2,616). The institutions with the most authorized field releases include Monsanto with 6,782, Pioneer/DuPont with 1,405, Syngenta with 565, and USDA's Agricultural Research Service with 370. As of September 2013 USDA had received proposals for releasing GM rice, squash, plum, rose, tobacco, flax, and chicory.\n\nConstant exposure to a toxin creates evolutionary pressure for pests resistant to that toxin. Over-reliance on glyphosate and a reduction in the diversity of weed management practices allowed the spread of glyphosate resistance in 14 weed species in the US, and in soybeans.\n\nTo reduce resistance to \"Bacillus thuringiensis\" (Bt) crops, the 1996 commercialization of transgenic cotton and maize came with a management strategy to prevent insects from becoming resistant. Insect resistance management plans are mandatory for Bt crops. The aim is to encourage a large population of pests so that any (recessive) resistance genes are diluted within the population. Resistance lowers evolutionary fitness in the absence of the stressor, Bt. In refuges, non-resistant strains outcompete resistant ones.\n\nWith sufficiently high levels of transgene expression, nearly all of the heterozygotes (S/s), i.e., the largest segment of the pest population carrying a resistance allele, will be killed before maturation, thus preventing transmission of the resistance gene to their progeny. Refuges (i. e., fields of nontransgenic plants) adjacent to transgenic fields increases the likelihood that homozygous resistant (s/s) individuals and any surviving heterozygotes will mate with susceptible (S/S) individuals from the refuge, instead of with other individuals carrying the resistance allele. As a result, the resistance gene frequency in the population remains lower.\n\nComplicating factors can affect the success of the high-dose/refuge strategy. For example, if the temperature is not ideal, thermal stress can lower Bt toxin production and leave the plant more susceptible. More importantly, reduced late-season expression has been documented, possibly resulting from DNA methylation of the promoter. The success of the high-dose/refuge strategy has successfully maintained the value of Bt crops. This success has depended on factors independent of management strategy, including low initial resistance allele frequencies, fitness costs associated with resistance, and the abundance of non-Bt host plants outside the refuges.\n\nCompanies that produce Bt seed are introducing strains with multiple Bt proteins. Monsanto did this with Bt cotton in India, where the product was rapidly adopted. Monsanto has also; in an attempt to simplify the process of implementing refuges in fields to comply with Insect Resistance Management(IRM) policies and prevent irresponsible planting practices; begun marketing seed bags with a set proportion of refuge (non-transgenic) seeds mixed in with the Bt seeds being sold. Coined \"Refuge-In-a-Bag\" (RIB), this practice is intended to increase farmer compliance with refuge requirements and reduce additional labor needed at planting from having separate Bt and refuge seed bags on hand. This strategy is likely to reduce the likelihood of Bt-resistance occurring for corn rootworm, but may increase the risk of resistance for lepidopteran corn pests, such as European corn borer. Increased concerns for resistance with seed mixtures include partially resistant larvae on a Bt plant being able to move to a susceptible plant to survive or cross pollination of refuge pollen on to Bt plants that can lower the amount of Bt expressed in kernels for ear feeding insects.\n\nBest management practices (BMPs) to control weeds may help delay resistance. BMPs include applying multiple herbicides with different modes of action, rotating crops, planting weed-free seed, scouting fields routinely, cleaning equipment to reduce the transmission of weeds to other fields, and maintaining field borders. The most widely planted GM crops are designed to tolerate herbicides. By 2006 some weed populations had evolved to tolerate some of the same herbicides. Palmer amaranth is a weed that competes with cotton. A native of the southwestern US, it traveled east and was first found resistant to glyphosate in 2006, less than 10 years after GM cotton was introduced.\n\nFarmers generally use less insecticide when they plant Bt-resistant crops. Insecticide use on corn farms declined from 0.21 pound per planted acre in 1995 to 0.02 pound in 2010. This is consistent with the decline in European corn borer populations as a direct result of Bt corn and cotton. The establishment of minimum refuge requirements helped delay the evolution of Bt resistance. However, resistance appears to be developing to some Bt traits in some areas.\n\nBy leaving at least 30% of crop residue on the soil surface from harvest through planting, conservation tillage reduces soil erosion from wind and water, increases water retention, and reduces soil degradation as well as water and chemical runoff. In addition, conservation tillage reduces the carbon footprint of agriculture. A 2014 review covering 12 states from 1996 to 2006, found that a 1% increase in herbicde-tolerant (HT) soybean adoption leads to a 0.21% increase in conservation tillage and a 0.3% decrease in quality-adjusted herbicide use.\n\nThe regulation of genetic engineering concerns the approaches taken by governments to assess and manage the risks associated with the development and release of genetically modified crops. There are differences in the regulation of GM crops between countries, with some of the most marked differences occurring between the US and Europe. Regulation varies in a given country depending on the intended use of each product. For example, a crop not intended for food use is generally not reviewed by authorities responsible for food safety.\n\nIn 2013, GM crops were planted in 27 countries; 19 were developing countries and 8 were developed countries. 2013 was the second year in which developing countries grew a majority (54%) of the total GM harvest. 18 million farmers grew GM crops; around 90% were small-holding farmers in developing countries.\n\nThe United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) reports every year on the total area of GM crop varieties planted in the United States. According to National Agricultural Statistics Service, the states published in these tables represent 81–86 percent of all corn planted area, 88–90 percent of all soybean planted area, and 81–93 percent of all upland cotton planted area (depending on the year).\n\nGlobal estimates are produced by the International Service for the Acquisition of Agri-biotech Applications (ISAAA) and can be found in their annual reports, \"Global Status of Commercialized Transgenic Crops\".\n\nFarmers have widely adopted GM technology (see figure). Between 1996 and 2013, the total surface area of land cultivated with GM crops increased by a factor of 100, from to 1,750,000 km (432 million acres). 10% of the world's arable land was planted with GM crops in 2010. As of 2011, 11 different transgenic crops were grown commercially on 395 million acres (160 million hectares) in 29 countries such as the US, Brazil, Argentina, India, Canada, China, Paraguay, Pakistan, South Africa, Uruguay, Bolivia, Australia, Philippines, Myanmar, Burkina Faso, Mexico and Spain. One of the key reasons for this widespread adoption is the perceived economic benefit the technology brings to farmers. For example, the system of planting glyphosate-resistant seed and then applying glyphosate once plants emerged provided farmers with the opportunity to dramatically increase the yield from a given plot of land, since this allowed them to plant rows closer together. Without it, farmers had to plant rows far enough apart to control post-emergent weeds with mechanical tillage. Likewise, using Bt seeds means that farmers do not have to purchase insecticides, and then invest time, fuel, and equipment in applying them. However critics have disputed whether yields are higher and whether chemical use is less, with GM crops. See Genetically modified food controversies article for information.\n\nIn the US, by 2014, 94% of the planted area of soybeans, 96% of cotton and 93% of corn were genetically modified varieties. Genetically modified soybeans carried herbicide-tolerant traits only, but maize and cotton carried both herbicide tolerance and insect protection traits (the latter largely Bt protein). These constitute \"input-traits\" that are aimed to financially benefit the producers, but may have indirect environmental benefits and cost benefits to consumers. The Grocery Manufacturers of America estimated in 2003 that 70–75% of all processed foods in the U.S. contained a GM ingredient.\n\nEurope grows relatively few genetically engineered crops with the exception of Spain, where one fifth of maize is genetically engineered, and smaller amounts in five other countries. The EU had a 'de facto' ban on the approval of new GM crops, from 1999 until 2004. GM crops are now regulated by the EU. In 2015, genetically engineered crops are banned in 38 countries worldwide, 19 of them in Europe. Developing countries grew 54 percent of genetically engineered crops in 2013.\n\nIn recent years GM crops expanded rapidly in developing countries. In 2013 approximately 18 million farmers grew 54% of worldwide GM crops in developing countries. 2013's largest increase was in Brazil (403,000 km versus 368,000 km in 2012). GM cotton began growing in India in 2002, reaching 110,000 km in 2013.\n\nAccording to the 2013 ISAAA brief: \"...a total of 36 countries (35 + EU-28) have granted regulatory approvals for biotech crops for food and/or feed use and for environmental release or planting since 1994... a total of 2,833 regulatory approvals involving 27 GM crops and 336 GM events (NB: an \"event\" is a specific genetic modification in a specific species) have been issued by authorities, of which 1,321 are for food use (direct use or processing), 918 for feed use (direct use or processing) and 599 for environmental release or planting. Japan has the largest number (198), followed by the U.S.A. (165, not including \"stacked\" events), Canada (146), Mexico (131), South Korea (103), Australia (93), New Zealand (83), European Union (71 including approvals that have expired or under renewal process), Philippines (68), Taiwan (65), Colombia (59), China (55) and South Africa (52). Maize has the largest number (130 events in 27 countries), followed by cotton (49 events in 22 countries), potato (31 events in 10 countries), canola (30 events in 12 countries) and soybean (27 events in 26 countries).\n\nDirect genetic engineering has been controversial since its introduction. Most, but not all of the controversies are over GM foods rather than crops per se. GM foods are the subject of protests, vandalism, referenda, legislation, court action and scientific disputes. The controversies involve consumers, biotechnology companies, governmental regulators, non-governmental organizations and scientists.\n\nOpponents have objected to GM crops on multiple grounds including environmental impacts, food safety, whether GM crops are needed to address food needs, whether they are sufficiently accessible to farmers in developing countries and concerns over subjecting crops to intellectual property law. Secondary issues include labeling, the behavior of government regulators, the effects of pesticide use and pesticide tolerance.\n\nA significant environmental concern about using genetically modified crops is possible cross-breeding with related crops, giving them advantages over naturally occurring varieties. One example is a glyphosate-resistant rice crop that crossbreeds with a weedy relative, giving the weed a competitive advantage. The transgenic hybrid had higher rates of photosynthesis, more shoots and flowers, and more seeds than the non-transgenic hybrids. This demonstrates the possibility of ecosystem damage by GM crop usage.\n\nThere is a scientific consensus that currently available food derived from GM crops poses no greater risk to human health than conventional food, but that each GM food needs to be tested on a case-by-case basis before introduction. Nonetheless, members of the public are much less likely than scientists to perceive GM foods as safe. The legal and regulatory status of GM foods varies by country, with some nations banning or restricting them, and others permitting them with widely differing degrees of regulation.\n\nNo reports of ill effects from GM food have been documented in the human population. GM crop labeling is required in many countries, although the United States Food and Drug Administration does not, nor does it distinguish between approved GM and non-GM foods. The United States enacted a law that requires labeling regulations to be issued by July 2018. It allows indirect disclosure such as with a phone number, bar code, or web site.\n\nAdvocacy groups such as Center for Food Safety, Union of Concerned Scientists, Greenpeace and the World Wildlife Fund claim that risks related to GM food have not been adequately examined and managed, that GM crops are not sufficiently tested and should be labelled, and that regulatory authorities and scientific bodies are too closely tied to industry. Some studies have claimed that genetically modified crops can cause harm; a 2016 review that reanalyzed the data from six of these studies found that their statistical methodologies were flawed and did not demonstrate harm, and said that conclusions about GM crop safety should be drawn from \"the totality of the evidence... instead of far-fetched evidence from single studies\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2291212", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291212", "title": "Rashidi Kawawa", "text": "Rashidi Kawawa\n\nRashidi Mfaume Kawawa (27 May 1924 – 31 December 2009) was the Prime Minister of Tanganyika in 1962 and of Tanzania in 1972 to 1977. He was the effective ruler of the country from January to December 1962 while Julius Nyerere toured the countryside. Kawawa was a strong advocate of economic statism. He later served as Defense Minister from 1977 to 1980.\n\nAfter his retirement, Kawawa remained a behind-the-scenes influence in Tanzanian politics. Kawawa died on 31 December 2009 in Dar es Salaam at the age of 85.\n\n"}
{"id": "2291213", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291213", "title": "Antim Monastery", "text": "Antim Monastery\n\nThe Antim Monastery is located in Bucharest, Romania on Mitropolit Antim Ivireanu Street, no. 29. It was built between 1713 and 1715 by Saint Antim Ivireanu, at that time a Metropolitan Bishop of Wallachia. The buildings were restored by Patriarch Justinian Marina in the 1950s. As of 2005, there are 7 monks living in the Monastery. The monastery also hosts a museum with religious objects and facts about the life of Antim Ivireanu.\n\nDuring the communist rule of Nicolae Ceaușescu the government threatened demolition of the church and many other historic structures in Romania. A project organized by engineer Eugeniu Iordăchescu moved the church to a different nearby site and saved it in time.\n\n"}
{"id": "2291217", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291217", "title": "Pedinidae", "text": "Pedinidae\n\nPedinidae are a family of echinoderms.\n"}
{"id": "2291236", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291236", "title": "Don Rojas", "text": "Don Rojas\n\nDon Rojas (born 1949) is a journalist and political commentator from Saint Vincent and the Grenadines. He was the Editor in Chief of Grenada’s national newspaper \"The Free West Indian\". He served as press secretary for Prime Minister Maurice Bishop from 1981 to 1983, until a Bishop power-sharing dispute led to fighting and Bishop's death. When U.S. Marines invaded Grenada in 1983, he was deported by the U.S. military to Barbados. \n\nRojas subsequently worked in the International Organization of Journalists (IOJ).\n\nRojas returned to the United States in the early 1990s.\n\nSince moving to the United States, Rojas worked as General Manager of Pacifica Radio station WBAI in New York from late 2002 to May 2005. In the early 1990s, he was an editor at the \"New York Amsterdam News\", a famous Black paper based in Harlem. In 2006 he was employed as a press officer by Oxfam America. In 2007, Rojas was employed by the Louisiana Disaster Recovery Foundation, an organization that awards money to nonprofit organizations assisting the state's residents in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina.\n\nHe briefly served as Executive Director of Free Speech TV in 2014.\n"}
{"id": "2291243", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291243", "title": "Gay Purr-ee", "text": "Gay Purr-ee\n\nGay Purr-ee is a 1962 American animated musical film produced by United Productions of America and released by Warner Bros. It features the voice of Judy Garland in her only animated-film role, as well as Robert Goulet in his first feature film. The film received positive reviews, but was a box office disappointment. It is also the first animated feature film to be theatrically released by Warner Bros, and the second of 2 animated films by UPA.\n\nThe story is set in 1895 France and takes place predominantly in Paris. However, it begins on a farm in rural Provence. The lovely cat Mewsette and the accomplished but shy mouser Jaune Tom are in love (\"Mewsette\"), until the former is frustrated with his plebeian ways (and those of the farm), to the point of calling him a \"clumsy country clod\". Inspired by the human Jeanette's stories of glamour and sophistication in Paris (\"Take My Hand, Paree\"), Mewsette runs away by taking a train to the big city (\"Roses Red, Violets Blue\"), where she encounters the slick con-cat Meowrice (Paul Frees). Taking advantage of the country kitty's naivete, he puts her in the care of the sultry Madame Henretta Reubens-Chatte, who promises to turn Mewsette into a dainty debutante known as \"The Belle of all Paris\". Unbeknownst to Mewsette, Meowrice is grooming her to be the mail-order bride of a rich American cat in Pittsburgh known as \"Mr. Henry Phtt\" (\"The Money Cat\"). Meanwhile, Jaune Tom and his sidekick Robespierre arrive in Paris, searching for Mewsette.\n\nTraining does not go well. Just as Mewsette is about to give up and return to the farm, Meowrice takes her out to see the cat side of Paris, the Eiffel Tower, the Champs-Élysées and the Mewlon Rouge and then take a buggy ride back home (\"The Horse Won't Talk\"). Reinvigorated, she returns to her studies. Jaune Tom and Robespierre arrive just at that moment but get waylaid by one of Meowrice's shadowy cat henchmen and barely escape drowning in Paris's famous labyrinthine sewers. By coincidence, Jaune Tom displays his incredible mouse-hunting skills in front of Meowrice (known as \"Virtue-Mousety\"), who sees a money-making opportunity, gets them drunk (\"Bubbles\"), and sells them as mousers to a ship bound for Alaska. On the ship, Robespierre consoles a depressed Jaune Tom, telling him that any problem, regardless of size, can be broken up into manageable pieces, by remarking that even the mighty ocean is made up of little drops of water. Jaune Tom has a vision of Mewsette singing about how no problem is unconquerable, and the importance of never giving up (\"Little Drops of Rain\").\n\nMewsette finishes her training and is now lovely enough to impress even Meowrice, who commissions a series of paintings of her by such famous artists as Claude Monet, Henri de Toulouse-Lautrec, Georges Seurat, Henri Rousseau, Amedeo Modigliani, Vincent van Gogh, Edgar Degas, Auguste Renoir, Paul Cézanne, Paul Gauguin and Pablo Picasso (an opportunity for the animators to indulge in some artistic parodies), so that he can send them to Mr. Phtt. Meowrice quietly writes a check to pay his \"sister\", Madame Reubens-Chatte (using disappearing ink, so that the check is worthless), and takes Mewsette to his hideout in Notre Dame. There, he reveals his plan to ship her to America and tries to coerce her to enter a luggage crate, but after seeing a portrait of Mr. Phtt depicting him as fat and old, she manages to escape Meowrice and his sidekicks. In the resulting chase scene, she leads them to a bulldog, who injures Meowrice badly enough to put him out of action for six weeks. Meanwhile, his sycophants (who are nowhere near as intelligent as he is) comb the city without success, searching for Mewsette.\n\nMeanwhile, not long after they reach Alaska (a howling wilderness of snow), Jaune Tom and Robespierre strike gold thanks to the former's mouse-hunting skills. Now wealthy, the two cats hurry back to Paris.\n\nA disillusioned and homeless Mewsette wanders around the streets of Paris (\"Paris is a Lonely Town\") and stops atop a bridge over the river where she attempts to leap to her death, but she is captured by Meowrice and his sidekicks. She is taken to the Gare du Nord railway station, en route to a boat to America, and all hope seems lost, when Jaune Tom and Robespierre arrive. They have been aided by Madame Ruebens-Chatte, who is irritated that her own \"brother\" double-crossed her and tears up the worthless check. In a humorously over-the-top fight scene inside the boxcar of a moving train, the three heroes defeat Meowrice and pack him into the crate intended for Mewsette, doubtless that this will be a nasty surprise for Mr. Phtt. The film concludes with Mewsette, Jaune Tom and Robespierre enjoying the high life in Paris that Mewsette was seeking when she left home (\"Mewsette Finale\").\n\n\n\"Gay Purr-ee\" was the second and final feature film, following \"1001 Arabian Nights\" with Mr. Magoo, produced by UPA (United Productions of America), a studio which had revolutionized animation during the 1950s by incorporating design and limited animation.\n\nThe script for \"Gay Purr-ee\" was written by Dorothy Webster Jones and her husband, Warner Bros. Cartoons veteran director Chuck Jones. The latter Jones also ultimately produced the project, moonlighting for UPA in violation of his exclusive contract with Warner Bros. One of the former animators from his Warner Bros. unit, Abe Levitow, directed the film. According to the production notes on the DVD edition, it was Garland who suggested that her \"Wizard of Oz\" songwriters, Harold Arlen and E.Y. Harburg, should write and compose the songs for \"Gay Purr-ee\".\n\nWhen Warner Bros. picked up the film for distribution, they discovered that Chuck Jones had worked on the film. After a long debate with management over the details of Jones' exclusivity agreement, Warner fired Jones in July 1962 and laid off his staff after they had finished their next cartoon. Later, after Warner Bros. Cartoons was closed, Jones hired his old unit for his first independent studio, Sib Tower 12 Productions.\n\nThe film was theatrically released on December 17, 1962 to positive reviews from film critics who praised Garland's performance, but Gay Purr-ee became a box office flop. The film currently holds an 80% rating on Rotten Tomatoes.\n\nOn November 4, 2003, Rhino Handmade, a division of the Warner Music Group, released the soundtrack on CD. This was identical to the 1962 LP version but contained 5 additional demo tracks. The demo tracks are performed by Harold Arlen and E. Y. \"Yip\" Harburg, the composers of the songs for the movie. They were also the primary songwriters for the music of \"The Wizard of Oz\", the 1939 Garland feature. Garland stated that the song \"Little Drops of Rain\" was one of her favorite songs. The CD track listing is as follows:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2291250", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291250", "title": "Kipper the Dog", "text": "Kipper the Dog\n\nKipper the Dog is a character in a series of books for preschool-age children by British writer Mick Inkpen. The books consist of 34 titles (as of July 2005), which have sold over 8 million copies and have been translated into over 20 languages. The books have also won many awards.\n\nThe characters in the \"Kipper the Dog\" book series also appear in the animated television series \"Kipper\".\n\n\nSome of the books have been translated into other languages, including Spanish.\n\n"}
{"id": "2291262", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291262", "title": "Blue Mountain Railroad", "text": "Blue Mountain Railroad\n\nBlue Mountain Railroad may refer to:\n"}
{"id": "2291281", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291281", "title": "Jan T. Gross", "text": "Jan T. Gross\n\nJan Tomasz Gross (born 1947) is a Polish-American sociologist and historian. He is the Norman B. Tomlinson '16 and '48 Professor of War and Society, emeritus, and Professor of History, emeritus, at Princeton University.\n\nGross is the author of several books on Polish history, particularly Polish-Jewish relations during World War II and the Holocaust, including (2001); (2006); and (with Irena Grudzinska Gross) Golden Harvest (2012).\n\nGross was born in Warsaw to Hanna Szumańska, a member of the Polish resistance (Armia Krajowa) in World War II, and Zygmunt Gross, who was a Polish Socialist Party member before the war broke out. His mother was Christian and his father Jewish. His mother lost her first husband, who was Jewish, after he was denounced by a neighbor. She rescued several Jews during the Holocaust, including her future husband whom she married after the war.\n\nGross attended local schools and studied physics at the University of Warsaw. He became one of the young dissidents known as \"Komandosi\", and was among the university students who participated in the \"March events\", the Polish student and intellectual protests of 1968. Like many Polish students, he was expelled from the university, and was arrested and jailed for five months.\n\nDuring the antisemitic campaign by the Polish communist government, Gross emigrated from Poland to the United States in 1969. In 1975 he earned a PhD in sociology from Yale University for a thesis on the Polish underground state, which was published as \"Polish Society under German Occupation\" (1979).\n\nGross has taught at Yale, New York University, and in Paris. He became a naturalized US citizen. He has specialized in studies of Polish history and Polish-Jewish relations in Poland. He is the Norman B. Tomlinson '16 and '48 Professor of War and Society in the History Department at Princeton University. Gross has held this seat since 2003. He is also Professor of History at Princteon, both positions emeritus.\n\nBased on documentation on Polish citizens deported to Siberia, Gross and his wife Irena Grudzińska-Gross published \"In 1940, Mother, They Sent Us to Siberia\". In the 80s Gross wrote \"Revolution From Abroad: Soviet Conquest of Poland’s Western Ukraine and Western Belorussia\" mostly based on Hoover Archive material.\n\nHis 2001 book about the Jedwabne massacre, \"\", caused controversy because it addressed the role of local Poles in the massacre. He wrote that the atrocity was committed by Poles and not by the German occupiers. Gross's book generated controversy and was the subject of vigorous debate in Poland and abroad. The political scientist Norman Finkelstein accused Gross of exploiting the Holocaust. Norman Davies described \"Neighbors\" as \"deeply unfair to Poles\".\n\nA subsequent investigation conducted by the Polish Institute of National Remembrance (IPN) supported some of Gross's conclusions, but not his estimate of the number of people murdered. In addition, the IPN concluded there was more involvement by Nazi German security forces in the massacre. Polish journalist Anna Bikont began an investigation at the same time, ultimately publishing a book, \"My z Jedwabnego\" (2004), later published in French and English as \"The Crime and the Silence: Confronting the Massacre of Jews in Wartime Poland\" (French, 2011; and English, 2015).\n\nGross's book, \"\", which deals with anti-semitism and anti-Jewish violence in post-war Poland, was published in the United States in 2006, where it was praised by reviewers. When published in Polish in Poland in 2008, it received mixed reviews and revived a nationwide debate about anti-Semitism in Poland during and after World War II.\" Marek Edelman, one of the leaders of the Warsaw Ghetto Uprising, said in an interview with the daily newspaper, \"Gazeta Wyborcza\", \"Postwar violence against Jews in Poland was mostly not about anti-Semitism; murdering Jews was pure banditry.\"\n\nGross's latest book, \"Golden Harvest\" (2011), co-written with his wife, Irena Grudzińska-Gross, is about Poles enriching themselves at the expense of Jews murdered in the Holocaust. Critics in Poland have alleged that Gross dwelt too much on wartime pathologies, drawing \"unfair generalizations\". The Chief Rabbi of Poland, Michael Schudrich, commented: \"Gross writes in a way to provoke, not to educate, and Poles don't react well to it. Because of the style, too many people reject what he has to say.\"\n\nOn 6 September 1996, Gross and his wife Irena Grudzińska-Gross were awarded the Order of Merit of the Republic of Poland by President Aleksander Kwaśniewski, for \"outstanding achievement in scholarship\".\n\nAs Professor at the Department of Politics, New York University, Gross was a beneficiary of the Fulbright Program, for research on \"Social and Political History of the Polish Jewry 1944-49\" at the Jewish Historical Institute, Warsaw, Poland (January 2001- April 2001).\n\nIn 1982 Jan T. Gross was awarded a fellowship in the field of sociology by the John Simon Guggenheim Memorial. Also in 1982, as an assistant professor of sociology at Yale University, he was among thirty-three Rockefeller Humanities Fellowship competition entrants awarded, his project entitled \"Soviet Rule in Poland, 1939-1941.\"\n\nIn an essay published in 2015 in the German newspaper \"Die Welt\", Gross wrote that during World War II, \"Poles killed more Jews than Germans\". In 2016, Gross said that \"Poles killed a maximum 30,000 Germans and between 100,000 and 200,000 Jews.\" Polish Foreign Ministry spokesman Marcin Wojciechowsk] described Gross's statement as \"historically untrue, harmful and insulting to Poland.\" He added that Poland's Ambassador to Germany addressed a letter of protest to the editors of \"Die Welt\". According to historian Jacek Leociak, \"the claim that Poles killed more Jews than Germans could be really right – and this is shocking news for the traditional thinking about Polish heroism during the war.\" \n\nOn 15 October 2015, Polish prosecutors opened a libel inquiry against Gross; they acted under a paragraph of the criminal code that \"provides that any person who publicly insults the Polish nation is punishable by up to three years in prison\". Polish prosecutors had previously examined Gross's books \"Fear\" (2008) and \"Golden Harvest\" (2011), but closed those cases after finding no evidence of a crime. In 2016, the Simon Wiesenthal Center said the decision to continue the investigation bore \"all the hallmarks of a political witch-hunt,\" and a \"form of alienating minorities and people who were victimized\". The investigation was closed in November 2019. Prosecutors stated that \"there is no conclusive data on the numbers of Germans and Jews killed as a result of actions committed by Poles during the Second World War. The establishment of such numbers is still the subject of research by historians and the subject of dispute between them.\" One of the experts consulted was Piotr Gontarczyk, who said there is no conclusive evidence that Poles killed more Jews than Germans during the war, but such a view is impossible to show as untrue. Acccording to Gontarczyk, such statements, while controversial, are within the limits of academic discourse.\n\nOn 14 January 2016, because of what he described as \"an attempt to destroy Poland's good name\", Polish President Andrzej Duda requested a re-evaluation of the award to Gross of the Knight's Cross of the Order of Merit of the Republic of Poland. The request was met with local and international protests. Gross responded that \"PiS [the Law and Justice party] is obsessed with stimulating a patriotic sense of duty. And given that most Poles do not know their own history very well, and think that Poles suffered as much as Jews during the war, the new regime is playing into a language of Catholic martyrology.\" Timothy Snyder, an American historian noted for his work on European genocides, said that if the order were taken from Gross, he would renounce his own.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2291293", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291293", "title": "Frank Deford", "text": "Frank Deford\n\nBenjamin Franklin Deford III (December 16, 1938 – May 28, 2017) was an American sportswriter and novelist. From 1980 until his death in 2017, he was a regular sports commentator on NPR's \"Morning Edition\" radio program.\n\nDeford wrote for \"Sports Illustrated\" magazine from 1962 until his death in 2017, and was a correspondent for the \"Real Sports with Bryant Gumbel\" television program on HBO. He wrote 18 books, nine of them novels. A member of the National Sportscasters and Sportswriters Association Hall of Fame, Deford was six times voted National Sportswriter of the Year by the members of that organization, and was twice voted Magazine Writer of the Year by the \"Washington Journalism Review\".\n\nIn 2012, Deford became the first magazine recipient of the Red Smith Award. In 2013, he was awarded the National Humanities Medal, was presented with the William Allen White Citation for \"excellence in journalism\" by the University of Kansas, and became the first sports journalist ever to receive the National Press Foundation's highest honor, the W.M. Kiplinger Award for Distinguished Contributions to Journalism.\n\nDeford's archives are held by the University of Texas, where an annual lecture is presented in his name. He was a long-time advocate for research and treatment of cystic fibrosis.\n\nDeford grew up in Baltimore, Maryland, the oldest of three sons, and attended the Calvert School and Gilman School in Baltimore. He is a graduate of Princeton University and resided in Key West, Florida, with his wife, the former Carol Penner, who had been a fashion model. They have two surviving children: Christian (b. 1969) and Scarlet (b. 1980). Scarlet was adopted as an infant from the Philippines a few months after his daughter Alexandra's death from cystic fibrosis at age 8 on January 19, 1980. Deford has two grandchildren; Annabel (b. 2010) and Hunter (b. 2012). Deford met his wife in Delaware and they were married in Newport, Rhode Island in 1965.\n\nAfter graduation from Princeton in 1962, Deford began his career as a researcher at \"Sports Illustrated.\" In addition to his writing at \"Sports Illustrated\", he was a commentator on CNN and worked as a correspondent for HBO's \"Real Sports with Bryant Gumbel\" since 1995. He was a regular Wednesday commentator for NPR's \"Morning Edition\" from 1980 to 2016, when his essays became monthly until he retired in May 2017. His 1981 novel \"Everybody's All-American\" was named one of \"Sports Illustrated's\" Top 25 Sports Books of All Time and was later made into a film of the same title.\n\nMuch of the fiction he wrote is set outside of the sports realm. His last novel was the acclaimed \"Bliss, Remembered\", a 1930s romance between a pretty young American and the son of a German diplomat; the story is written from the point of view of the woman. He was also the screenwriter on the films \"Trading Hearts\" (1988) and \"Four Minutes\" (2005).\n\nIn 1989, Deford became editor-in-chief of \"The National\", the first daily U.S. sports newspaper. It ceased publication after only 18 months. After writing for \"Newsweek\" and \"Vanity Fair\", Deford became a senior contributing writer at \"Sports Illustrated\".\n\nDeford served as chairman of the Cystic Fibrosis Foundation from 1982 until 1999 and was chairman emeritus after that. He became a cystic-fibrosis advocate after his daughter Alexandra was diagnosed with the illness in 1972. After she died at 8 on January 19, 1980, he chronicled her life in the memoir \"\". The book was made into a movie starring Craig T. Nelson as Deford, Bonnie Bedelia as his wife Carol, and Gennie James as Alex.\n\nDeford died on May 28, 2017, at the age of 78, at his home in Key West, Florida.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2291303", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291303", "title": "Haka (disambiguation)", "text": "Haka (disambiguation)\n\nHaka is a traditional Māori dance.\n\nHaka can also refer to:\n"}
{"id": "2291307", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291307", "title": "Your Best Life Now", "text": "Your Best Life Now\n\nYour Best Life Now: 7 Steps to Living at Your Full Potential is a book by pastor Joel Osteen. It was published on October 12, 2004, by FaithWords. There is also a calendar, board game, and study guide available based on the book. A 10th Anniversary edition was published on September 3, 2014.\n\nThe book was ranked #1 on \"The New York Times\" Self Help Best Seller list. It remained a bestseller for more than two years and has sold over 8 million copies.\n"}
{"id": "2291311", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291311", "title": "2 minutes du peuple", "text": "2 minutes du peuple\n\nLes are radio sketches of approximately 2 minutes each (more or less) recorded by Quebec humorist François Pérusse.\n\nThese sketches talk about everyday life, on various subjects like \"The X-Files\", \"ER\", \"Columbo\" and programmes, as well as some popular and some original songs. The style of humour is a mix of puns and absurd.\n\nThey are broadcast each day on these radio stations:\n\nThese sketches were used as a reference by other authors of audio sketches like .\n\n"}
{"id": "2291312", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291312", "title": "William Faith", "text": "William Faith\n\nWilliam Faith (born August 28, 1967) is an American goth/punk musician.\n\nHe is a former member of the gothic bands Rozz Williams' Christian Death, Shadow Project, Mephisto Walz and briefly as support for Sex Gang Children during a one off performance in 1993 at The Roxy Theatre. Faith was a founding member of the goth-punk band Wreckage (where he was known as Bill E. Bones), as well as anarcho-punk collective Anima Mundi. \n\nFaith is perhaps best known as a founding member of Faith and the Muse. A longtime member of the Los Angeles gothic rock and punk scene, Faith has also produced records for a range of artists.\n\nHis younger sister, Cynthia Coulter, is a member of the bands Mercury's Antennae, This Ascension, and was also a touring member of Faith and the Muse.\n\nIn 2011, William Faith relocated to Chicago, IL and formed his current project The Bellwether Syndicate with his partner Sarah \"Scary Lady Sarah\" Rose Faith. William and Sarah also work as a DJ duo called The Pirate Twins, and were married in August 2016.\n\nIn addition to his current work with The Bellwether Syndicate, Faith maintains his role as guitarist for English anarcho-punk stalwarts Conflict and bassist for The March Violets.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2291324", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291324", "title": "Tracy Poust", "text": "Tracy Poust\n\nTracy Poust is a producer and writer known for her work on the American television sitcom \"Will & Grace\" (1998–2006, 2017–2020) and the ABC show \"Ugly Betty\" (2006–2010).\n\n"}
{"id": "2291327", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291327", "title": "Michael Jenkins (wide receiver)", "text": "Michael Jenkins (wide receiver)\n\nMichael Gerard Jenkins (born June 18, 1982) is a former American football wide receiver in the National Football League (NFL). He was drafted in the first round of the 2004 NFL Draft by the Atlanta Falcons and also played for the Minnesota Vikings. He played college football at Ohio State University.\n\nJenkins attended A.P. Leto High School in Tampa, Florida where he was a record-breaking track star. He received many awards for his outstanding athletic performance, stellar academic achievement, and school leadership.\n\nJenkins became a three-year starter for the Ohio State Buckeyes, starting 38 of his final 39 games, he caught 165 passes for 2,898 yards with a 17.6 average, and scored 16 touchdowns in his career. He finished his career with at least one reception in 38 consecutive games and helped the Buckeyes capture the 2002 BCS National Championship at the 2003 Fiesta Bowl.\n\nHis 2,898 yards rank eighth on the Big Ten Conference career-record list, while also topping the previous school all-time record of 2,855 by David Boston. Jenkins earned an All-Big Ten Conference honorable mention as a senior after leading the team with 55 receptions for 834 yards with a 15.2 average and 7 touchdowns while adding 178 yards and a touchdown on 20 punt returns. He was also an All-Big Ten Conference second-team choice as a junior after leading the team with a career-high 61 receptions for 1,076 yards (17.6 average) and 6 touchdowns.\n\nDuring the 2002 Ohio State National championship season, Jenkins made one of the biggest and most memorable catches in Buckeye history, the \"Holy Buckeye\" play at Purdue. In the first overtime period of Ohio State's victory in the 2002 BCS National Championship game over the Miami Hurricanes, Jenkins caught a pass on 4th and 1 from Craig Krenzel that gave the Buckeyes a first down and eventually allowed the Buckeyes to prevail 31-24 in two overtimes.\n\nJenkins played in all 16 games of his rookie season, recording seven receptions for 119 yards. His 17.0 average led the team and his eight special teams tackles ranked fourth. He made his first NFL reception for 46 yards against the Denver Broncos.\n\nWith the slump and eventual release of wide receiver Peerless Price, the Falcons turned to Jenkins to start. Although Falcons quarterback Michael Vick turned to him more often, Jenkins was not a gigantic factor in the Falcons' less-than-stellar offense for the 2005 season. He played in 14 games and started 12 of them after Price left for the Dallas Cowboys. Jenkins made his first career start against the Philadelphia Eagles, leading the team with three grabs for 80 yards. He improved from his rookie season, catching 38 passes for 506 yards. He also caught three touchdowns, the first against the ailing Buffalo Bills.\n\nJenkins started all 16 games for the first time in his career and registered 436 receiving yards on a then career-high 39 catches with a career-high seven touchdowns. He led the team with 77 receiving yards on 3 receptions (25.7 average), including a 34-yard touchdown catch in the season opener against the Carolina Panthers.\n\nJenkins had 53 receptions for 532 yards and four touchdowns in his fourth year with the team. He tallied a season-high 76 receiving yards on six receptions against the Carolina Panthers and posted six catches for 64 yards with a career-high two touchdowns against the Houston Texans. Jenkins reached a career-high nine receptions for a team-high 73 yards against the Tampa Bay Buccaneers, and tied a career-high with nine grabs for a career-high 83 yards against the New Orleans Saints.\n\nJenkins caught the first pass of rookie quarterback Matt Ryan's NFL career and took it for a 62-yard touchdown against the Detroit Lions. Jenkins caught a pass and ran out of bounds, stopping the clock with 1 second left and allowing Jason Elam to successfully convert a 48-yard field goal to defeat the Chicago Bears during their week 6 game.\n\nJenkins set a new career high in receiving yards in 2008 with 777.\n\nJenkins started for the Falcons in 2009. He finished the season with 50 receptions, 635 yards, and a touchdown.\n\nAfter suffering an injury in an offseason team scrimmage, Michael Jenkins would miss 4 to 6 weeks. As a result, Jenkins started just 9 regular season games for the Falcons in 2010, finishing with 41 receptions for 505 yards and 2 touchdown receptions. Atlanta finished with the best record in the NFC at 13-3, but the Falcons were upset by the eventual Super Bowl Champion Green Bay Packers in the Divisional Playoffs. In the 48-21 loss to Green Bay, Jenkins recorded 6 receptions for 67 yards.\n\nOn July 29, 2011, Jenkins was released by the Atlanta Falcons. A day later, he signed with the Minnesota Vikings.\n\nHe was placed on injured reserve on November 29, 2011. He caught 38 passes for 466 yards and scored 3 touchdowns during the season.\n\nJenkins was signed by the Vikings for a 3-year contract. In week 7 of that year, Jenkins caught a 72-yard pass on the first play of the game, only to be tackled at the 1 yard line.\nJenkins had 38 receptions for 466 yards that season. The Vikings would go on to tie the worst season in franchise history, with a 3-13 record.\n\nJenkins returned with the Vikings in 2012. Minnesota was 9-6 in week 17 and had to beat the Green Bay Packers to advance to the playoffs. Jenkins caught a diving touchdown in the 4th quarter that gave the Vikings the lead. The Vikings would go on to win that game 37-34, only to lose to the Packers in the first round of playoffs the following week.\n\nOn March 4, 2013, Jenkins was released by the Vikings.\n\nJenkins signed with the New England Patriots on March 28, 2013. He was released on August 15, 2013.\n\nJenkins and his wife, Toya, currently reside in Georgia. Jenkins currently co-owns Crossfit Ecstatic, a workout facility in Cumming, Georgia. A graduate of A. P. Leto High School in Tampa, Jenkins donated football uniforms to his alma mater in 2008, telling the \"St. Petersburg Times\", \"You're always kind of fighting for your school\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2291332", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291332", "title": "Santa Maria-Bonita School District", "text": "Santa Maria-Bonita School District\n\nThe Santa Maria-Bonita School District in Santa Maria, California, has four junior high schools and sixteen elementary schools with approximately over 16,000 students enrolled.\n\n\n\nSanta Maria Joint Union High School District\n\nOrcutt Union School District\n\n"}
{"id": "2291336", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291336", "title": "Wong Kan Seng", "text": "Wong Kan Seng\n\nWong Kan Seng (; born 8 September 1946) is a Singaporean business executive and a former politician. He currently serves as the chairman of Ascendas-Singbridge (since 2015) and non-executive director of United Overseas Bank (since 2017).\n\nA former member of the governing People's Action Party (PAP), Wong was a Member of Parliament (MP) representing the Bishan-Toa Payoh Group Representation Constituency. Wong served as the country's Deputy Prime Minister from 2005 to 2011. He also held the Cabinet portfolios of Minister for Community Development (1987–91), Minister for Foreign Affairs (1988–94), Minister for Home Affairs (1994–2010) and Co-ordinating Minister for National Security (2010–11). \n\nWong was the deputy prime minister on 1 September 2005 till 21 May 2011 when the former deputy prime minister Tony Tan stepped down from position. Wong was serving as deputy prime minister with S. Jayakumar & Teo Chee Hean. He retired from political service after 31 years.\n\nWong is a Cantonese and entered politics in 1984 after working as a teacher in the Singapore Civil Service and the private sector. He served and held appointments in the Ministry of Defence. In 1981, he joined Hewlett Packard Singapore where he remained till January 1985.\n\nWong was elected a Member of Parliament representing the Kuo Chuan constituency in Toa Payoh at the 1984 general election. He has since been re-elected as an MP representing the Group Representation Constituencies (GRCs) of Toa Payoh (1988), Thomson (1991) and Bishan-Toa Payoh (1997, 2001, 2006 and 2011).\n\nWong was appointed the Acting Minister for Community Development in 1986. He was made a full member of the Cabinet as Minister for Community Development by Prime Minister Lee Kuan Yew in 1987. He was concurrently appointed the Minister for Foreign Affairs in 1988. In 1994, he became the Minister for Home Affairs. Wong also served as the Leader of the House in Singapore's Parliament from 1991 to 2007.\n\nWong was vocal in his capacity as cabinet minister when it comes to defending any criticisms of the PAP as being authoritarian, or that the political process was undemocratic with an advantage given to the ruling party. He often described the opposition as being disorganised, weak and driven by self-interests.\"The public has no sympathy for them. Neither do I. Why should I? I mean, they mess it up.\"On opposition politician J.B. Jeyaretnam's proposal to establish an independent elections commission, Wong remarked, \"It is absurd. I think we cannot be more democratic than we are now. We even allow a loser to be in Parliament and make speeches attacking the government. Where could you find such a democracy in other countries?\"\n\nAt the World Conference on Human Rights in 1993, Wong argued that democracy was interpreted differently in Singapore. He claims that its citizens \"do not agree that pornography is an acceptable manifestation of free expression or that homosexual relationships are just a matter of lifestyle choice.\" Wong was also of the belief that excessive emphasis on individual rights over the rights of the community will retard progress.\n\nOn 1 September 2005, Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong appointed Wong as one of two Deputy Prime Ministers following the retirement of Tony Tan. On 1 November 2010, Wong was appointed the Co-ordinating Minister for National Security and relinquished his post as Minister for Home Affairs.\n\nWong retired from the Cabinet following the 2011 general election. He remains a Member of Parliament and also the special adviser for economic cooperation to Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong until 2015, when he was finally retired from political service after 31 years.\n\nAs the Minister for Home Affairs, Wong was in charge of overseeing emergency planning, dealing with internal threats such as cults and terrorists, involved in law and order, and rooting out of criminals and illegal immigrants.\n\nOn 27 February 2008, alleged Jemaah Islamiyah leader Mas Selamat bin Kastari escaped from Whitley Road Detention Centre, leading to the largest manhunt in Singapore. Wong expressed his regret in Parliament the day after the occurrence.\n\"This should never have happened. I am sorry that it has.\"\nHe revealed that Mas Selamat escaped when he was taken to the toilet before a meeting at the detention centre's family visit room.\n\nWong was criticised because news of Mas Selamat's escape was not disseminated to the public until four hours after its occurrence. There were calls for Wong to step down, given the severity of the security lapse. Mas Selamat was eventually recaptured in Johor Bahru, Malaysia, on 1 April 2009, by Malaysian authorities, over a year after his escape.\n\nWong was then responsible for co-ordinating the inter-ministerial nationwide effort to counter the SARS epidemic. Certain measures were taken to contain the virus, including mandatory home quarantine measures, health screening at immigration checkpoints, schools and hospitals and public education programs. On 31 May 2003, Singapore was taken off the World Health Organization's list of SARS-affected countries.\n\nWong returned to the private sector after stepping down from the cabinet. Wong was appointed as the chairman of Singbridge, a unit of Temasek Holdings, in 2011. He was later appointed chairman of Ascendas-Singbridge after the merger of the four operating subsidiaries owned by Temasek Holdings and Jurong Town Corporation in 2015. He was appointed as an independent, non-executive director of United Overseas Bank in July 2017.\n\nWong received his secondary education at Outram Secondary School. He went on to receive a Bachelor of Arts (Honours) from the University of Singapore in 1970, and a Master of Business Administration from the London Business School on a Singapore government scholarship in 1979.\n\nWong is married to Ruth Lee Hong Geok. The couple have two children.\n\n"}
{"id": "2291341", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291341", "title": "Vlastimil Hort", "text": "Vlastimil Hort\n\nVlastimil Hort (born 12 January 1944) is a Czechoslovak-born German chess Grandmaster. During the 1960s and 1970s he was one of the world's strongest players and reached the 1977–78 Candidates Tournament for the World Chess Championship, but never qualified for a competition for the actual title.\n\nHort was born in Kladno, Czechoslovakia and was a citizen of Czechoslovakia for the first part of his chess career. He achieved the Grandmaster title in 1965. He won a number of major international tournaments (Hastings 1967–68, Skopje 1969, etc.) and national championships (1970, 1971, 1972, 1975, and 1977). He gained recognition as one of the strongest non-Soviet players in the world, which led to him representing the \"World\" team in the great \"USSR vs. Rest of the World\" match of 1970, where he occupied fourth board and had an undefeated +1 score against the Soviet Grandmaster Lev Polugaevsky—in some respects his greatest result. He defected to the West in 1979, moving to West Germany and winning the national championship of his new homeland in 1987, 1989, and 1991.\n\nHort participated in a number of Zonal and Interzonal qualifying tournaments to select a challenger for the world title, generally with good results but without reaching the final stages of the Candidates process.\n\nThe 1967 Interzonal tournament at Sousse included among its participants not only Hort, but also the great but volatile Bobby Fischer. While leading the tournament, Fischer was involved in a dispute with the tournament organizers regarding playing schedule that resulted in his forfeiting a game with the Soviet player Aivars Gipslis. While accounts of subsequent events differ, it is clear that he was persuaded to resume play, but then did not appear for his game with Hort, who was awarded a victory by forfeit. Negotiations with the organizers went downhill from this point, and Fischer withdrew from the tournament to begin his penultimate estrangement from grandmaster chess. Hort went on to finish the Interzonal in a tie for sixth with Samuel Reshevsky and Leonid Stein, but did not advance to the Candidates matches, Reshevsky becoming the successful Candidate following a three-way tie-breaking match.\n\nHe reached the stage of the Candidates matches of 1977–78 but was eliminated in the first round, in a close match versus the former world champion Boris Spassky.\n\nHort's long-standing reputation as one of the great sportsmen of chess was enhanced by an event during this match. During the latter stages of the competition, Spassky fell ill and was unable to play. During Candidates matches, each player was allotted a fixed number of rest days to accommodate such situations, but Spassky exhausted his entire allocation of time-outs yet was still unable to compete. At this point Hort could have claimed the match won by forfeit; however, he offered Spassky one of his own time-outs so that the ex-champion could complete his recovery. Spassky did so and went on to win the match by the narrowest possible margin, eliminating Hort from that Candidates cycle.\n\nIn the penultimate game of the match Hort had established a clearly winning position, but forgot about the clock, and sat thinking until his time elapsed, handing the win to Spassky. With a draw in the next and final game, Spassky won the match. The following day Hort gave what was then a world record simultaneous exhibition in which he took on over 600 opponents. He explained that he gave the exhibition in order to get the loss against Spassky out of his head.\nHort played for Czechoslovakia in the Chess Olympiads of 1960, 1962, 1964, 1966, 1968, 1970, 1972, 1974, 1980, 1982, 1984, and for Germany in 1988, 1990, 1992.\n\nIn 1985, he played a simultaneous exhibition against 636 opponents in Cologne, which earned him an entry in \"The Guinness Book of Records\".\n\nHort has appeared numerous times as chess commentator alongside grandmaster Helmut Pfleger on German TV. Despite advancing age he has remained an active tournament competitor, representing the unified Germany and playing \"inter alia\" on \"Veterans\" teams in Scheveningen system matches against teams of Woman Grandmasters. In 2006 he became Senior World Champion in Chess 960.\n\nThe following is a game from the 1967 Zonal tournament (qualifying event for the Sousse Interzonal) held at Halle, East Germany that well illustrates Hort's capacity for converting a positional initiative into a winning attack. His opponent in this game, Dragoljub Minić, was a prominent Yugoslav International Master (later Grandmaster). Note that if Black captures the queen in the final position, White has an elegant mate with 29.Nf4+ Kh4 30.g3+\n\n"}
{"id": "2291342", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291342", "title": "Virtual folder", "text": "Virtual folder\n\nIn computing, a virtual folder generally denotes an organizing principle for files that is not dependent on location in a hierarchical directory tree. Instead, it consists of software that coalesces results from a data store, which may be a database or a custom index, and presents them visually in the format in which folder views are presented. A virtual folder can be thought of as a view that lists all files tagged with a certain tag, and thus a simulation of a folder whose dynamic contents can be assembled on the fly, when requested. It is related in concept to several other topics in computer science, with names including saved search, saved query, and filtering.\n\nVirtual folders provide a means for making it easier for users to find files that are content-related, such as by project. The user needs to specify criteria and all files matching the criteria are dynamically aggregated into the virtual folder. Files in a virtual folder are not limited to any single physical location on the hard drive, as is the case with traditional folders, but can be in any location. In fact, files in a virtual folder do not even need to be stored as files on the hard drive. They may be on a network share or in a custom application datastore such as e-mail inbox or even a database.\n\nDocuments cannot be \"stored\" in a virtual folder, since physically a virtual folder is just a file storing a search query. Any attempt to store a file in a virtual folder, depending on the implementation, is redirected to some physical store.\n\nMost implementations speed up searching by pre-indexing the hard drive, or the locations where the search has to be performed. So when searching is to be done, the index, which is a representation of the entire data suitable for fast searching, is used. Since the entire folder hierarchy is not accessed, the search is completed much faster.\n\nVirtual folders are a well-established construct in operating systems. BeOS included a version of virtual folders referred to as \"saved queries\", that has since influenced the development of virtual folder features in operating systems like Mac OS X, Windows and Linux. These virtual folders are populated dynamically by executing a search on the entire file system, or a subset of it, or by using the cached version of the search.\n\nThe initial developer preview of the operating system, released in October 1995, included database-like functionality to make it easier for users to manage their files. To do this the filesystem indexes certain file attributes to allow for fast searching. By default the filesystem indexes the filename, size and last modified timestamp automatically, but could also create indexes for other attributes when told to by either an application or by the user.\n\nWhen a user performs a file search, a file is created in the folder \"/boot/home/queries\" with a name derived from the content of the query and the date and time of the search, such as \"Name = Western Infirmary - Mar 21, 11:59:40 PM\". The query criteria of the search is stored in an attribute of the file called \"qrystr\". When the file is opened, the filesystem indexes were queried and a Tracker window is opened with an up-to-date list of files that match the criteria.\n\nAdditional features were added to search with subsequent releases. Release 2 introduced the ability to edit saved queries, and Release 3 gave the users the chance to define their own names for saved queries. Before Release 4 in 1998, all queries were stored indefinitely. However, with R4, the BeOS developers introduced a seven-day limit on all queries. If a user wanted a query to stay around longer, they could uncheck a \"Temporary\" flag in the Find dialog.\n\nIn April 2005, Apple released Mac OS X v10.4, with their implementation of virtual folders called Smart Folders. These folders are dynamically updated by the Spotlight engine to contain content that match certain criteria. For example, this could be used to give you a folder containing all the Word documents containing the word \"shpadoinkle\" that have been edited within the last 7 days. Smart Folders are created by saving a Spotlight search, which records the search criteria in a Property list file with a .savedSearch extension and, by default, saves them in the \"/Users/username/Library/Saved Searches\" folder.\n\nDominic Giampaolo, One of the lead developers of the BeOS filesystem,was also involved in adding a virtual folder system in Apple Inc.'s Mac OS X operating system.\n\nThere are many variants of the Smart Folder concept that can be seen in applications that use the Spotlight engine, usually identified by a gear symbol on a purple-hued icon. Examples include: Smart Mailboxes in Mail and Smart Groups in Address Book.\n\nBefore Spotlight earlier versions of macOS had a similar concept in the iApps (iTunes and iPhoto), but these did not use the system-wide Spotlight engine.\n\nIn November 2006, Microsoft released Windows Vista which allows users to save any search query as a \"Search Folder\", a type of virtual folder. Search Folders are designed so that users are not required to remember where their files are stored. A Search Folder is not a physical folder, but is essentially an XML file that stores a defined query in a form that can be used by the Windows Search subsystem. Because of this, a Search Folder can be created anywhere that a normal folder can be created. A similar approach exists in Windows XP when the Windows Indexing Service is enabled, as a search can be saved as a .fnd file. However, a saved search query in Windows XP only saves a user's search criteria; users must still specify the location and perform the search again as results are not dynamic.\nWhenever a Search Folder is accessed, it returns results that are relevant to a saved search query; results manifest themselves as actual files and folders in storage. Search queries can be defined based on a number of parameters and properties, including all or part of a filename, specific dates, the content of the files themselves, associated metadata, specific file types, where files are located, and various other attributes. A feature called \"Query Composition\" allows searches to be based on other Search Folders to further refine results. \n\nWindows Vista, by default, references the profile of the user who originally created a saved search as part of the query's scope, which includes the disk partition. This design choice does not prevent saved searches from being shared with other users, but it prevents them from operating on different partitions or user profiles. While users can manually modify the contents of a saved search so that the scope references the %USERPROFILE% environment variable, which will enable it to operate on other machines or profiles regardless of the original author or location, Microsoft has released a \"SearchMelt Creator\" utility that automates this process for the user.\n\nIn early development builds of Windows Vista, there existed pre-configured Search Folders for the default user profile folders (e.g., Documents, Music, and Pictures) that replaced the links to these folders seen on the Windows Start menu. When browsing directories in Windows Explorer, the navigation pane would feature predefined Search Folders that were relevant to a currently viewed directory. When viewing the \"Documents\" folder, for example, the navigation pane would populate with individual Search Folders based on authors of documents, their ratings, their keywords, their types, and documents that were recently changed. \nPre-release builds later included subqueries that aggregated content from a main \"Library\" Search Folder. Microsoft's stated aim with this approach was to move beyond the traditional physical folder concept, but the company received a considerable amount of feedback from users who found that the new Search Folder-based approach was too confusing. In particular, the Search Folders being located on the Start menu led to the belief that there existed multiple physical folders with similar names and content. \n\nAs a result of this feedback, the company reinstated the links to the physical folders on the Start menu, in a manner similar to how they appear in previous versions of Windows, and removed several of the Search Folders that were available prior to Windows Vista's release to manufacturing. In spite of the feature being less prominent within the interface, the operating system does include several preconfigured Search Folders: \"Recent Documents\", \"Recent E-mail,\" \"Recent Music,\" \"Recent Pictures and Videos,\" \"Recently Changed\", and \"Shared By Me\", all of which are powered by a single \"Indexed Locations\" Search Folder, which realizes the previous Library concept.\n\nIn Windows 7, the concept of virtual folders has been significantly realized with the introduction of the \"Libraries\" feature. Similar to Saved Searches, a Library is simply an XML file but with the codice_1 extension and is essentially a collection of files with specified attributes presented in a familiar folder-style visual interface. Libraries have a shell namespace extension in Explorer and their XML files can be reused across Windows installations or the network.\n\nIn GNOME 2.14, a saved search is a virtual folder whose contents are the result of a Nautilus search, which has multiple backends. The contents of these folders are determined dynamically when the folder is opened, and updated automatically when files are created or modified.\n\nVirtual folders are also a well-established construct in email clients. In early 1991, the Emacs-based mail reader VM provided a virtual folder facility in its version 5.09. VM allows the users to define virtual folders using rules, taking their mail content from one or more physical folders and based on selection criteria dealing with dates, authors, recipient, subject, message body etc. Virtual folders can also be created interactively and take content from previously defined virtual folders, thereby cascading the selection criteria. The Evolution email client created by Helix Code in 2000, also incorporated virtual folders. Folders can be created that automatically list e-mails matching user-defined rules, for example all e-mail from a particular address or all e-mail that includes a specific keyword. The Opera web browser released a new mail client (beta in November 2002, final version in Jan 2003), M2 in which virtual folders (called access points) were used for all email management. Virtual folders were automatically made for active contacts, for attachments and for assigned labels. Virtual folders were also automatically generated whenever a search was performed, and manual virtual folders could use multiple logical mail header rules for their construction (including using regular expressions). Microsoft Outlook 2003 added a similar feature called \"Search Folders\". Gmail, first released in 2004, bases all of its mail management on virtual folders accessed via labels. Mozilla Thunderbird also has the ability to create search folders and from version 1.5 allowed the search to be done over more than one email account.\n\nIn July 2002, Apple announced version 3 of iTunes which includes \"Smart Playlists\" which can be considered a variant of a virtual folder. The only difference is that the search executed on accessing them is not on the file system's folder hierarchy, but on their internal data-store. Microsoft also added a similar feature to version 9 of Windows Media Player in Windows XP called \"Auto Playlists\" in 2003.\n\n"}
{"id": "2291346", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291346", "title": "Manuel Mora", "text": "Manuel Mora\n\nManuel Mora Valverde (27 August 1909 – 29 December 1994) was a communist and labor leader in Costa Rica. He was born in San José and helped to found the Workers and Farmers Party (later the People's Vanguard Party) in 1931. For his contributions to the labor movement and to the institution of a welfare state, Mora was awarded the title \"Benemérito de la Patria\" by the Legislative Assembly.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2291349", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291349", "title": "South Col", "text": "South Col\n\nThe South Col is a sharp-edged col between Mount Everest and Lhotse, the highest and fourth-highest mountains in the world, respectively. The South Col is typically swept by high winds, leaving it free of significant snow accumulation. Since 1950 (when Tibet was closed), most Everest expeditions have left from Nepal and gone via the southeast ridge and the South Col (instead of via the North Col). When climbers attempt to climb Everest from the southeast ridge in Nepal, their final camp (usually Camp IV) is situated on the South Col.\n\nThe South Col was first reached on May 12, 1952 by Aubert, Lambert, and Flory of Edouard Wyss-Dunant's Swiss Mount Everest Expedition that failed to reach the summit. The following year, when Mount Everest was first climbed, Wilfrid Noyce and the Sherpa Annullu were the first climbers on the expedition to reach the col. According to John Hunt, the expedition leader:\nOnce on the South Col, climbers have entered the death zone; Altitude sickness is a significant threat at this elevation and can easily prove fatal. It is also difficult to sleep, and most climbers' digestive systems have significantly slowed or completely stopped. This is because it is more efficient at this altitude for the body to use stored energy sources than to digest new food. Most climbers will begin using supplemental oxygen here and have a maximum of only two or three days for making summit bids. Clear weather and low winds are critical factors in deciding whether to make a summit attempt. If weather does not cooperate within these short few days, climbers are forced to descend, many all the way back down to Base Camp. Climbers rarely get a second chance to return to the South Col in a specific expedition.\n\nIn 2005, Didier Delsalle of France landed a Eurocopter AS350 B3 helicopter on the South Col. Two days later he made the first helicopter landing on the summit of Mount Everest, a feat he subsequently repeated. \n\nIn May 2019, the highest weather station in the world was installed at Everest, with one location at the South Col, and another on a place higher up on the peak known as \"The Balcony\" as well as some other stations and locations. The weather stations are about tall and weigh .\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2291355", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291355", "title": "Alexander S. Kechris", "text": "Alexander S. Kechris\n\nAlexander Sotirios Kechris (; born March 23, 1946) is a set theorist and logician at the California Institute of Technology. \n\nKechris has made contributions to the theory of Borel equivalence relations and the theory of automorphism groups of uncountable structures. His research interests cover foundations of mathematics, mathematical logic and set theory and their interactions with analysis and dynamical systems. \n\nKechris earned his Ph.D. in 1972 under the direction of Yiannis N. Moschovakis, with a dissertation titled \"Projective Ordinals and Countable Analytic Sets\". During his academic career he advised 23 PhD students and sponsored 20 postdoctoral researchers.\n\nIn 2012 he became an Inaugural Fellow of the American Mathematical Society.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2291359", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291359", "title": "Joshua (song)", "text": "Joshua (song)\n\n\"Joshua\" is a song written and recorded by American country music artist Dolly Parton. It was released on November 9, 1970 as the first single and title track from the album \"Joshua\". The song was significant for being her first single to reach number 1 on the US country charts. The single reached number 1 on the \"Billboard\" country charts in February 1971. Parton received her first Grammy nomination in the Best Country Female Vocal category for the song, losing to Lynn Anderson.\n\nThe song drew on many Appalachian references from Parton's youth which she would revisit throughout her career.\n\nThe song is about an adventurous young girl who dares to visit the property of a rural recluse, who has a reputation for being mean and hostile.\n\n"}
{"id": "2291361", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291361", "title": "Graham Wiggins", "text": "Graham Wiggins\n\nGraham Wiggins (October 25, 1962 – September 7, 2016) was an American musician. He played the didgeridoo, keyboards, melodica, sampler, and various percussion instruments with his groups, the Oxford-based Outback and Dr. Didg.\n\nGraham Wiggins was born on 25 October 1962 in New York City, United States. Wiggins held a D.Phil in solid-state physics from Oxford University, where he earned his nickname Dr. Didg while testing his didgeridoo in the Clarendon physics laboratory. He helped develop new technology for Siemens MRI scanners, including a 32 channel head coil.\n\nWiggins was born in New York to an Australian mother and a British father from Abingdon, Oxfordshire, and grew up in New York. He graduated from Paul D. Schreiber High School in Port Washington, NY in 1980. Although his first instruments were piano and horn, he first taught himself to play the didgeridoo while a physics student at Boston University in 1982, after hearing Warren Senders demonstrating a cardboard-tube didgeridoo as part of a \"world music\" concert series in Boston. He graduated from Boston University in 1985, relocating to Oxford, England for postgraduate study. In order to earn extra money there to complete his doctorate he also performed as a busking didgeridoo player.\n\nIn 1983 Wiggins invented a keyed version of the didgeridoo, which allows it to be played melodically somewhat in the manner of an ophicleide, a keyed brass instrument which Wiggins was able to try at the Bate Collection, a musical instrument museum at Oxford University's Faculty of Music in St Aldate's, Oxford. The first prototype was made out of a cardboard wrapping paper tube and had first only one, then four valves, allowing the instrument to play a total of five distinct pitches. He used it in only one concert, after which it fell apart. He refined this model in 1990, using the machine tools at the Clarendon Laboratory at Oxford University. It is made from \"wengé\" (an African hardwood) with brass hardware. It has eight keys, which allows for the playing of nine different pitches. He unveiled it publicly for the first time on the British national television program called \"Tomorrow's World\". The instrument may be heard on several Dr. Didg tracks, most notably \"Sub Aqua,\" on the 2002 CD \"Dust Devils\", as well as \"Sun Tan,\" on the 1994 CD \"Out of the Woods\".\n\nIn 1988, he formed the core of Outback with guitarist Martin Cradick, a band that blended Australian tribal sounds with modern music. He obtained a record deal before completing his thesis. Following the dissolution of that group in 1991, he spent two months in early 1992 living in the Aboriginal community of Galiwinku on Elcho Island, off the coast of Arnhem Land, in Australia's Northern Territory, where he studied the advanced traditional didgeridoo techniques of the area. With the exception of a few songs such as \"Brolga,\" Wiggins' compositions are generally not based primarily on traditional Aboriginal structures, but instead on the use of the instrument's percussive, rhythmic, and melodic capabilities. In 1993, Wiggins formed the group Dr. Didg. In 1994, he began using the technique of live sampling, which became the foundation of the Dr. Didg album \"Out of the Woods\".\n\nWiggins played with the Grateful Dead in 1993 at the Mardi Gras show at the Oakland Coliseum in California, and recorded with Mickey Hart on the albums \"Mickey Hart's Mystery Box\" and \"Supralingua\" as part of the Grammy Award-winning ensemble Planet Drum. After a few years hiatus, Dr. Didg began touring again in 2010, including performances at the All Good Music Festival at Marvin's Mountaintop in Masontown, West Virginia, and Meeting of the Minds III in Poyntelle, Pennsylvania.\n\nAfter 15 years living in Oxford, Wiggins moved back to Boston in the spring of 2000.\n\nIn September 2016, Wiggins died at the age of 53.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2291366", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291366", "title": "Santa Maria Joint Union High School District", "text": "Santa Maria Joint Union High School District\n\nSanta Maria Joint Union High School District (SMJUHSD) operates four high schools (Delta, Ernest Righetti, Santa Maria, and Pioneer Valley) located in Santa Maria, California. Currently, 7,800 students are enrolled in this district.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2291369", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291369", "title": "Melianthus", "text": "Melianthus\n\nMelianthus is a genus of flowering plants native to elevated grassland in South Africa. A common name for these plants is honey flower, which is also the English translation of the Latin name. This name also attaches to the species \"M. comosus\" and \"M. major\" that are found in cultivation.\n\nThe genus contains up to six species of evergreen shrubs. They have large pinnate leaves with prominent stipules, and erect racemes of nectar-rich flowers. The vegetative parts are very toxic.\n\nThe species include: \n\n"}
{"id": "2291370", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291370", "title": "Jacob Pollak", "text": "Jacob Pollak\n\nRabbi Jacob Pollak (other common spelling Yaakov Pollack), son of Rabbi Jacob Pollack was the founder of the Polish method of halakhic and Talmudic study known as the Pilpul. \n\nHe was born about 1460 or 1470 in Poland, and died at Lublin in 1541. He was a pupil of Jacob Margolioth of Nuremberg, with whose son Isaac he officiated in the rabbinate of Prague about 1490; but he first became known during the latter part of the activity of Judah Minz (d. 1508), who opposed him in 1492 regarding a question of divorce. Pollak's widowed mother-in-law, a wealthy and prominent woman, who was even received at the Bohemian court, had married her second daughter, who was still a minor, to the Talmudist David Zehner. Regretting this step, she wished to have the marriage annulled; but the husband refused to permit a divorce, and the mother, on Pollak's advice, sought to have the union dissolved by means of the declaration of refusal (\"mi'un\") on the part of the wife, permitted by Talmudic law. Menahem of Merseburg, a recognized authority, had decided half a century previously, however, that a formal letter of divorce was indispensable in such a case, although his opinion was not sustained by the Oriental rabbis. When, therefore, Pollak declared the marriage of his sister-in-law null and void, all the rabbis of Germany protested, and even excommunicated him until he should submit to Menahem's decision. Judah Minz of Padua also decided against Pollak, who was sustained by one rabbi only, Meïr Pfefferkorn, whom circumstances compelled to approve this course (Judah Minz, Responsa, No. 13; Grätz, \"Gesch.\" 2d ed., ix. 518).\n\nPollak had a further bitter controversy, with Minz's son Abraham, regarding a legal decision, in which dispute more than 100 rabbis are said to have taken part (Ibn Yaḥya, \"Shalshelet ha-Ḳabbalah,\" ed. Amsterdam, p. 51a).\n\nAfter the accession of King Sigismund I in 1506, many Jews left Bohemia and went to Poland, founding a community of their own at Kraków. Pollak followed them, officiating as rabbi and organizing a school for the study of the Talmud, which, up to that time, had been neglected in Poland. This institution trained young men to introduce the study of the Talmud into other Polish communities. In 1530 Pollak went to the Holy Land, and on his return took up his residence at Lublin, where he died on the same day as his opponent, Abraham Minz. His most famous pupils were Rabbi Shalom Shachna of Lublin and Meïr of Padua (Maharam Padua).\n\nPollak, in transferring the study of the Talmud from Germany, where it had been almost entirely neglected in the sixteenth century, to Poland, initiated a movement which in the course of time dominated the Talmudic schools of the latter country. The sophisticated treatment of the Talmud, which Pollak had found in its initial stage at Nuremberg, Augsburg, and Regensburg, was concerned chiefly with the mental gymnastics of tracing relationships between things widely divergent or even contradictory and of propounding questions and solving them in unexpected ways.\n\nNeither he nor Rabbi Shalom Shachna, one his most famous students, authored any books.\n\nPollak's contemporaries were unanimous in regarding him as one of the great men of his time, although the exaggerations to which his method eventually led were later criticized with severity (comp. Gans, \"Ẓemaḥ Dawid,\" ed. Offenbach, p. 31a). Pollak himself, however, was not responsible for these, since he modestly refrained from publishing the decisions at which he arrived by his system, not wishing to be regarded as a casuist whose decisions were to be implicitly followed. \n\nOnly a few quotations from him are found in the works of other authors.\n\n"}
{"id": "2291372", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291372", "title": "Saeed bin Suroor", "text": "Saeed bin Suroor\n\nSaeed bin Suroor (born November 16, 1968 in Dubai) is a horse racing trainer. He took out his training license in 1993 and the following year was appointed as the trainer for Sheikh Mohammed's Godolphin operation.\n\nHe has been British Champion Trainer on four occasions.\n\n Great Britain\n Australia\n Canada\n France\n Germany\n Hong Kong\n Ireland\n Italy\n Japan\n Singapore\n United Arab Emirates\n United States\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2291381", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291381", "title": "Cameron Duncan", "text": "Cameron Duncan\n\nCameron Troy Duncan (20 April 1986 – 12 November 2003) was a filmmaker from New Zealand.\n\nDuncan was raised in Auckland and attended Avondale College. Duncan completed many home videos but finished only two short films, \"DFK6498\" and \"Strike Zone\". The former dealt with his cancer diagnosis and subsequent loss of freedom, drawing analogy between the limitations imposed by the disease and a prison sentence. The latter film was devoted to his love of softball. Both films received recognition at the Wanganui Rivercity Film Festival. In 2002 DFK6498 won the best script and the viewers choice awards, with Duncan winning the best director award, while in 2003, Strike Zone won the best film award.\n\nHe was also successful in the Fair Go Ad Awards, with his entries in 1999 and 2003 winning the award for best high school entries in their respective years. The advertisement he created for the 1999 competition was officially adopted by TVNZ and played on television for its message concerning road safety.\n\nHe died in Texas of osteosarcoma, a type of bone cancer, at age 17.\n\nNear the end of his life he befriended Peter Jackson and Fran Walsh. His illness also helped to inspire Fran Walsh to write the lyrics for the Oscar-winning song, \"Into the West\" for the film \"\". After his death, his work as well as an explanatory documentary was put onto the Extended Edition DVD set for \"The Return of the King\".\n\nOn the set of \"\", he received blessings from Viggo Mortensen and Sir Ian McKellen as well as a signed photo from John Rhys-Davies. He was going to make a cameo in the film, but as his health deteriorated, it became impossible for him to do so.\n\nDuncan's family have made approaches through the NZ ethics system to use his frozen sperm. His sister and her female partner want to use the sperm and it is alleged that his mother has ownership rights.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2291383", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291383", "title": "Soul (disambiguation)", "text": "Soul (disambiguation)\n\nA soul is the incorporeal essence of a living being.\n\nSoul may also refer to:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2291401", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291401", "title": "Melinite", "text": "Melinite\n\nMelinite or Mélinite may refer to: \n\n"}
{"id": "2291404", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291404", "title": "Philip Greeley Clapp", "text": "Philip Greeley Clapp\n\nPhilip Greeley Clapp (August 4, 1888 – April 9, 1954) was an American educator, conductor, pianist, and composer of classical music.\n\nHe served as Director of the School of Music at the University of Iowa for more than three decades (1919–53), helping to establish that school’s strong reputation in music and in the arts overall. He worked especially hard in advocating that music and the other arts should be an integral part of a liberal arts education, and succeeded in creating strong graduate programs that awarded degrees not just in scholarship and research but also in performance and creation. Among his students was Gene Gutchë.\n\nAs a composer, Clapp followed firmly in the line of Romantic and Impressionist works created by Wagner, Mahler, Strauss and Debussy , as well as perhaps Liszt, and others, but adding his own distinctly American style and ideas about orchestration. Although a number of his compositions were never performed, several of his twelve symphonies were premiered by major orchestras and conductors, including Dimitri Mitropoulos and the New York Philharmonic, who gave the first public performance of the Eighth Symphony in Carnegie Hall on February 7, 1952 . Karl Muck arranged for him to conduct the world premieres of his First and Third Symphonies with the Boston Symphony Orchestra .\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2291414", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291414", "title": "The New World (short story collection)", "text": "The New World (short story collection)\n\nThe New World is a collection of short stories by Russell Banks. It was first published in 1978.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2291432", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291432", "title": "Adolf Berman", "text": "Adolf Berman\n\nAdolf Avraham Berman (, 17 October 1906 – 3 February 1978) was a Polish-Israeli activist and communist politician.\n\nBorn in Warsaw in the Russian Empire (today in Poland), Berman attended the University of Warsaw, where he earned a PhD in psychology. Whilst a student, he joined Poale Zion Left and edited its two newspapers (one in Polish and one in Yiddish).\n\nDuring World War II he was one of the leaders of the Jewish underground in the Warsaw Ghetto, and a member of the presidium of the Underground National Committee. He also served as general secretary of Żegota, the Polish underground Council for Jewish Aid whose aim was to rescue Jews from the Holocaust, and CENTOS, a children's aid society in the Warsaw ghetto.\n\nAfter the war ended, he became a representative of the communist-dominated Sejm, and in 1947 became chairman of the Central Committee of Polish Jews. Berman was removed from this position in April 1949 because he was a Zionist.\n\nIn 1950, he immigrated to Israel, where he joined Mapam (United Workers Party). Berman was elected to the Second Knesset on the party's list in the 1951 elections, but on 20 February 1952 left the party and formed the Left Faction together with Rostam Bastuni and Moshe Sneh. On 1 November 1954 Berman joined the Communist Party of Israel (Maki), and became a member of its Central Committee. He lost his Knesset seat in the 1955 elections.\n\nIn 1961, Berman testified at Adolf Eichmann's trial in Israel. He served as chairman of the Israel's Organization of Anti-Nazi Fighters, and a member of the presidium of the World Organization of Jewish Partisans and former Nazi Prisoners. Berman died in 1978 at the age of 71. His older brother, Jakub Berman – was a leading Stalinist politician in post-war Poland.\n"}
{"id": "2291440", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291440", "title": "Twisted Desire", "text": "Twisted Desire\n\nTwisted Desire is a 1996 American television drama/thriller film directed by Craig R. Baxley, written by twin brothers Carey and Chad Hayes. It stars Melissa Joan Hart, with real-life spouses Daniel Baldwin and Isabella Hoffman. The movie also stars Meadow Sisto, David Lascher, and R&B/pop star Jeremy Jordan. The picture made its debut on May 13, 1996 9/8c on NBC.\n\nThe film is based on the 1990 murders of the parents of 14-year-old Jessica Wiseman. Jessica had her 17-year-old boyfriend, Douglas Christopher Thomas, shoot and kill her parents. Thomas was executed in 2000, when the death penalty for juveniles was still a legal punishment.\n\nRepressed teenager Jennifer Stanton (Hart) is constantly at odds with her exceedingly-strict parents, who intensely dislike Jennifer's friends as well as her taste in clothing. Her father William (Baldwin) is an aggressive control-freak; his attitude has an adverse impact upon Jennifer's relationships, particularly with Brad (Lascher) - the captain of her high school football team. Brad ultimately breaks up with Jennifer, ostensibly because William keeps them apart, but also because another girl at school has him interested. Jennifer is shocked and frustrated by all of this.\n\nJennifer meets Nick Ryan (Jordan) at a gas station and soon forms a close relationship with him, which she keeps secret from her parents. Nick has a reputation for having spent time in jail on an assault charge. When Jennifer's parents spend a weekend away from the house, Jennifer uses the opportunity to get closer with Nick. Not trusting Jennifer, her parents return home early. They catch her in their bed with Nick. William furiously chases Nick out of the house, although Jennifer insists that she's in love with him. She continues dating Nick secretly, and uses makeup to convince him that William gave her a black eye. Concerned, Nick asks Jennifer to stay with him. She is touched by his offer, but declines. Back home, Jennifer's mother Susan (Hoffman) expresses disgust with the girl for having sex behind her parents' backs. She takes William's side against their daughter and her friends. Jennifer is grounded for the rest of the school year. \n\nNick visits Jennifer's house, and proclaims his love for her. He also states what he thinks of the harsh manner in which William treats Jennifer. William, shocked by Nick's audacity, threatens to sue him for statutory rape. He also threatens Nick with dire physical injury. The next morning, William finds his car vandalized and contacts the police. Nick is questioned, but denies all knowledge of the incident. Jennifer, knowing of her father's determination to have Nick imprisoned, convinces him to get his grandfather's pistol and kill her parents. While he plans out the murder, Jennifer tells her friends at school that she and Nick have broken up. She also presents herself to William and Susan as their idea of a model teenager. Although convinced that Jennifer has reformed and become truthful, her dad and mom couldn't care less. On the night for which they've scheduled her parents' murder, Nick reconsiders the plan at the last moment; with Jennifer's vehement encouragement, however, he goes through with it.\n\nAfter the killings, which the police presume were done by a burglar, Jennifer is sent to live with her grandmother Rose. Nick, the prime suspect, is harassed by the cops. Jennifer rekindles her relationship with Brad. She calls the police anonymously with information that leads to their discovery of the gun with which Nick murdered her parents. With Nick in custody, the case seems to be closed. However, Detective Daniels (Eric Laneuville) suspects that Jennifer knows more regarding this case than she let on during police interrogation. When confronted, Jennifer claims that Nick was angry at her parents for not letting him see her, thereby explaining Nick's motive. Meanwhile, Jennifer's best friend Karen Winkler (Sisto) finds her diary; it reveals how Jennifer used Nick to do away with her parents so that she could have Brad.\n\nKaren visits Nick in jail, and tells him how he's been set up by Jennifer. When he confronts Jennifer about it, she angrily blows Nick off, blaming him entirely for the murders of her dad and mom. Upset, he admits to the police that he killed William and Susan, but that it was Jennifer's idea. The police claim Jennifer's diary as evidence, only to find that she has rewritten the journal and thus made it useless. Frustrated, Karen sneaks into Jennifer's house to search for additional evidence; she fails to discover anything, and narrowly escapes being caught in the act. At Nick's murder trial, Jennifer falsely testifies that Nick harassed her. When Karen's determination to stop her becomes apparent, Jennifer threatens to implicate her in the murders of William and Susan. Eventually, a wired Brad manipulates Jennifer into admitting responsibility for her parents' deaths. The police pop in to arrest Jennifer for murdering her dad and mom. \n\nAn epilogue reveals that Jennifer Stanton was tried as a juvenile; thus, her release from prison at age 21 would be mandatory...while Nick Ryan is now on death row.\n\n"}
{"id": "2291444", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291444", "title": "Roy Thomas Baker", "text": "Roy Thomas Baker\n\nRoy Thomas Baker is an English record producer, songwriter, arranger, and Recording Academy governor, who has produced pop and rock songs since the 1970s.\n\nBaker began his career at Decca Records at the age of 14. Encouraged by music producer Gus Dudgeon, he soon moved to Trident Studios, where he worked with Dudgeon, Tony Visconti, Mick Jagger and Keith Richards, Frank Zappa as well as recording artists such as the Rolling Stones, David Bowie, the Who, Gasolin', Nazareth, Santana, the Mothers of Invention, Be Bop Deluxe, Free and T. Rex.\n\nAfter co-founding Neptune (Trident's record company), Baker met the rock band Queen. He began a working relationship that lasted for five albums (\"Queen\", \"Queen II\", \"Sheer Heart Attack\", \"A Night at the Opera\" and \"Jazz\") and a number of awards – including Grammy Awards and the Guinness World Records for the best hit song, \"Bohemian Rhapsody\".\n\nFollowing his successes with Queen and other artists, Baker signed a multi album production deal with CBS Music (Columbia Records, Sony Music, Epic Records, etc.). He then proceeded to move to the US and set up the RTB Audio Visual Productions' Offices in New York and Los Angeles. At this time under his new CBS deal RTB produced Journey, Starcastle, Reggie Knighton (the Grass Roots), Ian Hunter and Ronnie Wood (the Rolling Stones).\n\nBaker, also at this time, committed to produce four albums for the Cars after being prompted by Elektra Records to see them perform in a Boston school gymnasium. The albums were certified platinum and the Cars were Grammy nominated.\n\nHe was offered the post as the Senior Vice-President of \"Artist and Repertoire\" (A and R) for Elektra Records as executive and/or producer with recording artists the World, Lindsey Buckingham, Mötley Crüe, Joe Lynn Turner, Josie Cotton and Dokken as well as continuing with Queen and the Cars. During his tenure as Sr. V.P. Elektra signed artists Metallica, Simply Red, Yello, Peter Schilling, the World and 10,000 Maniacs.\n\nBaker has also worked with artists Guns N' Roses, Alice Cooper, Foreigner, Pilot, Ozzy Osbourne, Devo, the Stranglers, Dusty Springfield, T'Pau, Cheap Trick and Lewis Furey. In 2005, he produced \"One Way Ticket to Hell and Back\" by the Darkness, the Smashing Pumpkins' 2007 album, \"Zeitgeist\", the Storm's 2008 album \"When the Storm Meets the Ground\", the Smashing Pumpkins' \"American Gothic\" and One Karma's 2011 album \"Life Got in the Way\". He also produced Yes's 2014 album \"Heaven & Earth\", 35 years after his previous experience with the band, working on sessions in Paris that never led to an album.\n\nBaker lives in Los Angeles, Europe and at the RTB Studio Du Lac, his recording retreat, in Arizona. He is married to entertainment executive and actress Tere Livrano Baker.\n\nProductions by Roy Thomas Baker:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2291452", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291452", "title": "Born/Dead", "text": "Born/Dead\n\nBorn/Dead is a hardcore punk band formed in late 2000 in Oakland, California consisting of Bill Jackson playing drums, Wyatt Culbertson (both formerly of Chemical Imbalance) playing bass and splitting vocal duties with guitarist Will Kinser. Will had been a member of the short-lived Santa Cruz/San Francisco, California band No Options. No Options had broken up suddenly upon the death of member Chad W. Rickley. All of Born/Dead's records have been dedicated to his memory and they still play No Options songs in their live set.\n\nBorn/Dead's style of DIY punk is influenced by hardcore punk, peace punk and some crust punk. They sound similar to Aus Rotten, Econochrist and Tragedy.\n\nIn 2001, after playing extensively in the San Francisco Bay Area, the band released their debut five song 7\" EP \"24 Hostages\" as the first release by No Options Records, a label started by Will. After recording the initial tracks for a full-length album themselves, the band approached the long-running and successful Bay Area label, Prank Records to release the record. The nine song \"Our Darkest Fears Now Haunt Us\" LP/CD was released in 2003 and featured a heavier sound than the debut. The LP's release lead the band to its first major U.S. tour and was quickly followed by a recording session at Burnt Ramen studios produced by Nate Smith and Greg Wilkinson of Brainoil, these songs where released on a split LP with Seattle's Consume, released on German label Yellowdog Records. This was followed closely by a 5-week tour of Europe with Consume. Note: Levon from Shitlist, Deathraid played drums on the European tour.\n\nIn 2004, original drummer Bill Jackson left the band to concentrate on his other group Strung Up and was replaced by Josh Carman. The band prepared new material and in 2005 returned with a limited edition five song 12\" EP which they sold on a series of tours in the United States and Europe. This new material was more experimental than previous releases and some songs were re-released on a 7\" EP on Prank Records. In 2006, the band toured the west coast with The Subhumans and World Inferno Friendship Society. They Followed this a split 7\" EP on Tankcrimes records with San Francisco's Peligro Social. Will is also involved in No Options Records.\n\nBorn/Dead completed recording of a new 7 song LP entitled \"The Final Collapse\" at Ear Hammer studios in Oakland, and was scheduled to tour throughout most of 2007 to 2008 in over 28 countries, this tour saw the Markley Hart Econochrist play the Australian and New Zealand leg of tour with Pisschrist. In 2009 Born/Dead toured 5 weeks in Europe with Mackey Iveli of Peligro Social on drums.\n\n2014 Born/Dead toured 7 countries in 12 days.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2291453", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291453", "title": "Brian Castro", "text": "Brian Castro\n\nBrian Albert Castro (born 16 January 1950) is an Australian novelist and essayist.\n\nCastro was born in Hong Kong and has lived in Australia since 1961. He was Chair of Creative Writing (2008-2019) at the University of Adelaide and Director of the J.M. Coetzee Centre for Creative Practice. His publisher is Giramondo Publishing.\n\nBorn in Hong Kong of Portuguese, Chinese and English parentage, Brian Castro was educated at St Joseph's College Hunter's Hill and the University of Sydney, after which he worked in Australia, France and Hong Kong as a teacher and writer. His first novel \"Birds Of Passage\" (1983) won The Australian/Vogel Literary Award. \"Double-Wolf\" (1991) won The Age Fiction Prize, the Vance Palmer Prize and the Innovative Writing Prize at the Victorian Premier's Literary Awards. \"After China\" (1992) again won the Victorian Premier's Literary Award. His sixth novel, \"Stepper\" (1997), was awarded the National Book Council Prize for Fiction. \"Shanghai Dancing\" was published by Giramondo in March 2003, winning the Victorian Premier's Award, the NSW Premier's Award and was named NSW Book of the Year. \"The Garden Book\" won the 2006 Queensland Premier's Award and \"The Bath Fugues\" was short-listed for the Miles Franklin Award, the South Australian Premier's Literary Award, the Queensland Premier's Fiction Prize and the Victorian Premier's Literary Award. In 2012 he published \"Street To Street\", inspired by the life of the poet Christopher Brennan (Giramondo). His latest novel was \"Blindness and Rage\" which won the Prime Minister's Award for Poetry in 2018 (Giramondo, 2017.) He currently lives in the Adelaide Hills.\n\nIn 2014 he won the Patrick White Award for Literature for his contribution to Australian Literature.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2291463", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291463", "title": "Orcutt Union School District", "text": "Orcutt Union School District\n\nThe Orcutt Union School District is located in Santa Barbara County on the central coast of California. There are six elementary schools, two middle schools, and one charter school, which first began on August 20, 2008. There are approximately 5,040 students and more than 500 staff members.\n\n\n\n\n\nSanta Maria-Bonita School District\n\nSanta Maria Joint Union High School District\n\n"}
{"id": "2291467", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291467", "title": "Richard Carlson (actor)", "text": "Richard Carlson (actor)\n\nRichard Dutoit Carlson (April 29, 1912 – November 25, 1977) was an American actor, television and film director, and screenwriter.\n\nThe son of a Danish-born lawyer, Carlson was born in Albert Lea, Minnesota.\n\nCarlson majored in drama at the University of Minnesota, where he wrote and directed plays and was a member of Phi Beta Kappa. He graduated \"cum laude\" with a Master of Arts degree. Carlson then opened his own repertory theater in Saint Paul, Minnesota. When the theater failed, Carlson moved to New York City.\n\nIn 1935, Carlson made his acting debut on Broadway in \"Three Men on a Horse\", and appeared with Ethel Barrymore in \"Ghost of Yankee Doodle\" (1937-8) and \"Whiteoaks\" (1938).\n\nIn 1937, he wrote and staged the play \"Western Waters\", which ran for only seven performances.\n\nHe also appeared in \"Now You've Done It\" (1937).\n\nCarlson then moved to California, where he joined the Pasadena Playhouse.\n\nCarlson's first film part was in the 1938 David O. Selznick comedy \"The Young in Heart\". He had a supporting role in \"The Duke of West Point\" (1938) then was second billed to Ann Sheridan in \"Winter Carnival\" (1939).\n\nHe returned to Broadway for \"Stars in Your Eyes\" (1939).\n\nMetro-Goldwyn-Mayer cast him in two films with Lana Turner, \"These Glamour Girls\" and \"Every Other Inch a Lady\", both released in 1939.\n\nCarlson was often cast as a romantic male lead, or lead juvenile: \"Little Accident\" (1939), \"Beyond Tomorrow\" (1940), \"The Ghost Breakers\" (1940) with Bob Hope, \"The Howards of Virginia\" (1940) with Cary Grant, \"Too Many Girls\" (1940) with Lucille Ball, \"No, No, Nanette\" (1941), \"Back Street\" (1941), \"West Point Widow\" (1941), \"Hold That Ghost\" (1941) with Abbott and Costello, and \"The Little Foxes\" (1941) with Bette Davis.\n\nCarlson had the male lead in \"Secrets of G32\" (1942), \"The Affairs of Martha\" (1942), \"Highways by Night\" (1942) and \"My Heart Belongs to Daddy\" (1942).\n\nCarlson appeared in several films for MGM in the early 1940s, including \"White Cargo\" (1942), \"Presenting Lily Mars\" (1943), \"A Stranger in Town\" (1943), \"Young Ideas\" (1943), and \"The Man from Down Under\" (1943).\n\nDuring World War II, Carlson served in the United States Navy.\n\nWhen he returned to Hollywood, he had few offers of employment, and turned to writing to supplement his income.\n\nCarlson had supporting roles in \"So Well Remembered\" (1947) and \"The Amazing Mr. X\" (1948) and the lead in \"Behind Locked Doors\" (1948).\n\nIn 1950, he co-starred with Deborah Kerr and Stewart Granger in the highly successful adventure film \"King Solomon's Mines\", filmed on location in the Kenya Colony and the Belgian Congo. While shooting in Africa, Carlson wrote a series of articles for \"The Saturday Evening Post\", collectively titled \"Diary of a Hollywood Safari.\"\n\nDespite the film's success, Carlson remained a supporting actor: \"The Sound of Fury\" (1950), \"Valentino\" (1951), \"A Millionaire for Christy\" (1951), and \"The Blue Veil\" (1951). He did play the lead in the low budget \"Whispering Smith Hits London\" (1952), and \"Retreat, Hell!\" (1952).\n\nOn July 14, 1951, Carlson and then U.S. Senator Hubert Humphrey were the guests on the CBS live variety show, \"Faye Emerson's Wonderful Town\", in which hostess Faye Emerson visited Minneapolis to accent the kinds of music popular in the city.\n\nCarlson began to appear regularly on television shows such as \"The Prudential Family Playhouse\", \"The Ford Theatre Hour\", \"Cameo Theatre\", \"Lights Out\", \"Celanese Theatre\", \"Robert Montgomery Presents\", \"Hollywood Opening Night\", and \"The Ford Television Theatre\".\n\nCarlson wrote episodes of \"Schlitz Playhouse\" and \"Kraft Theatre\".\n\nCarlson was in \"The Rose Bowl Story\" (1952), \"Eagles of the Fleet\" (1952) and \"Seminole\" (1953).\n\nCarlson played the lead in \"The Magnetic Monster\" (1953) which led to him finding a niche in the newly re-emergent genres of science fiction and horror.\n\nHe followed it with leads in \"The Maze\" (1953), \"It Came from Outer Space\" (1953) with Barbara Rush, and \"Creature from the Black Lagoon\" (1954) with Julia Adams. He also had the male lead in \"All I Desire\" (1953).\n\nFrom 1953-56 he starred in the TV series \"I Led 3 Lives\".\n\nCarlson's success in the genre led him to the director's chair for the 1954 science fiction film \"Riders to the Stars\", in which he also starred.\n\nHe then directed \"Four Guns to the Border\" (1954).\n\nCarlson kept busy on television in shows like \"General Electric Theatre\", \"Matinee Theatre\", \"Kraft Theatre\", \"Lux Video Theatre\", \"Climax!\", \"Studio One in Hollywood\", \"Schlitz Playhouse\", and \"The Best of Broadway\". He also appeared in films like \"The Last Command\" (1955), \"Bengazi\" (1955) and \"The Helen Morgan Story\" (1957).\n\nHis third feature as director was \"Appointment with a Shadow\" (1957).\n\nIn 1957 and 1958, Carlson played \"Mr. Fiction Writer\" in three of the nine films made for television collectively titled \"The Bell Laboratory Science Series\". He also directed his final film for the project, \"The Unchained Goddess.\"\n\nIn 1957 he was cast as two different clergymen, Rabbi Avraham Soltes and Father William Wendt, in the episodes \"The Happy Gift\" and \"Call for Help\", respectively, of the syndicated religious anthology series, \"Crossroads\".\n\nCarlson's fourth film as director was \"The Saga of Hemp Brown\" (1958) and he wrote \"Johnny Rocco\" (1958).\n\nIn the 1958-1959 television season, Carlson portrayed Colonel Ranald Mackenzie of the 4th Regiment of the United States Cavalry in the syndicated western series, \"Mackenzie's Raiders\", with Morris Ankrum, Louis Jean Heydt, Jack Ging, and Brett King among the \"Raiders\". The series is set at the former Fort Clark near Brackettville in southwestern Texas, where the real Mackenzie was stationed during much of the 1870s. However, the episodes were filmed at the former Corriganville Movie Ranch in Simi Valley, California. In the series theme, Mackenzie and his men must protect the American border from an assortment of outlaws from both the United States and Mexico. Yet the Raiders cannot risk being caught within Mexico, or they would lose the open support of their own government. Carlson also wrote and directed episodes.\nIn 1959, Carlson was cast as Paul Drake in \"The Faithless\" of the NBC western series \"Riverboat\", with Darren McGavin. In the story line, Drake is an escaped prisoner with medical training being transported on the river vessel, the \"Enterprise\", back to jail. Having lost his religious faith, Drake refuses to render medical assistance to a two-year-old girl stricken with a communicable disease which threatens the entire vessel. William Phipps and Jeanne Bates play the parents of the child. Bethel Leslie portrays Cathy Norris.\n\nCarlson began directing for television: \"The Man and the Challenge\" (which he also wrote for), \"This Man Dawson\", \"Men Into Space\", \"Alcoa Premiere\", and \"The Detectives\".\n\nHis early 1960s credits as actor included \"The Chevy Mystery Show\", \"Tormented\", \"The Aquanauts\" (which he also directed), \"The Loretta Young Show\" (which he also directed), \"Bus Stop\", \"Thriller\" (which he also directed), \"Going My Way\", \"Arrest and Trial\", \"The Fugitive\", \"Wagon Train\", \"The Christophers\", and \"Burke's Law\". He wrote episodes of \"Daktari\" and the movie \"Island of the Lost\" (1967).\n\nIn 1965, he played a mad scientist who creates a mutant, killer octopus in the \"Voyage to the Bottom of the Sea\" episode \"The Village of Guilt\".\n\nHe was in the films \"Della\" (1965) and \"Kid Rodelo\" (1965), directing the latter. He acted in the series \"The Virginian\", \"Bonanza\" and \"Rawhide\".\n\nIn the final two seasons of CBS's \"Perry Mason\", Carlson made two guest appearances, both times as the murder victim. In 1964 he played Anthony Fry in \"The Case of the Tragic Trophy;\" in 1966, he played Clete Hawley in \"The Case of the Avenging Angel.\"\n\nCarlson was in the movies \"The Doomsday Flight\" (1966), \"The Power\" (1968), and \"The Valley of Gwangi\" (1968). Carlson's last movie role was in the 1969 Elvis Presley/Mary Tyler Moore film, \"Change of Habit\".\n\nHe was in episodes of \"The FBI\", \"Lancer\", \"Canon\", \"Owen Marshall, Counselor at Law\", and \"Mobile One\". His last acting role was in a 1975 episode of the television series \"Khan!\". Carlson wrote for \"O'Hara, U.S. Treasury\", \"Owen Marshall, Counselor at Law\" and \"Mannix\".\n\nCarlson is often confused with actor Hugh Marlowe, to whom he bore a remarkable physical and vocal resemblance. Marlowe appeared on television and in several films including the science fiction classics \"The Day the Earth Stood Still\" and \"Earth vs. the Flying Saucers\".\n\nCarlson died of a cerebral hemorrhage at the age of 65 on November 25, 1977, in Encino, California. He was buried in Los Angeles National Cemetery in West Los Angeles. For his contribution to the television industry, Carlson has a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame at 6333 Hollywood Blvd.\n\n"}
{"id": "2291469", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291469", "title": "Bank of Tanzania", "text": "Bank of Tanzania\n\nThe Bank of Tanzania () is the central bank of the United Republic of Tanzania. It is responsible for issuing the national currency, the Tanzanian shilling.\n\nThe bank was established under the Bank of Tanzania Act 1965. However, in 1995, the government decided that the central bank had too many responsibilities, and was thus hindering its other objectives. As a result, the government introduced the Bank of Tanzania Act 1995, which gave the bank the single objective of monetary policy.\n\nIt is governed by a board of directors consisting of ten people, four of whom are \"ex officio\" members which have three advisory committees that can assist them. The bank is headed by its Governor, assisted by three deputy governors in Administration, Economic and financial policies and Financial stability.\n\nThe Bank of Tanzania was chartered by the first parliament of Tanzania through the Bank of Tanzania Act of 1965 following the dissolution of the East African Currency Board in 1965. The bank commenced operations on June 14, 1966 and was inaugurated by the first president of Tanzania, Mwalimu Julius Kambarage Nyerere.\n\nImmediately after its formation, the Arusha declaration was proclaimed and the traditional roles of the bank was modified to accommodate for the changed in economic system. The lack of competition in the financial markets meant the bank had to reorient its role in the economy. After 1971 The Exchange Control Ordinance and Import Control Ordinance allowed the bank to apply the following plans:\nWith increased villagisation during the time period and the continued weakness in the balance of payment of the bank, the Bank of Tanzania act was amended in 1978 to give the bank more control. The Act shifted the responsibility of financial planning from the ministry of finance and planning directly to the bank.\n\nFollowing the liberalization of the economy in 1995 and the rapid rate of inflation and devaluation in the Tanzanian shilling, the Bank of Tanzania act of 1995 was passed which clarified the primary objective of the central bank to establish a monetary environment to ensure Price stability. The act was further clarified in 2006 and is the current governing act for the bank.\n\nThe Bank of Tanzania has a board of directors consisting of 10 people. Four of the members are directly appointed by the President of Tanzania. The ministry of Finance and the Principal secretary to the treasury of the Revolutionary Government of Zanzibar also appoint a member each to the board.\n\nThe current board composition consists of the following:\n\nBelow is a list of the seven Bank of Tanzania Governors with six former governors and one acting governor:\n\n\nThe bank is headquartered in Dar es salaam in the heart of the financial district of the city and also maintains the following 6 branches in the following cities:\n\n\nThe last branch was opened in Mtwara due to the recent economic growth in the southern regions.\n\nThe bank is active in promoting financial inclusion policy and is a leading member of the Alliance for Financial Inclusion. It is also one of the original 17 regulatory institutions to make specific national commitments to financial inclusion under the Maya Declaration during the 2011 Global Policy Forum held in Mexico.\n\nIn 2016 the central Bank Chief Professor Benno Ndulu renewed the bank's commitment by launching the National Financial Inclusion Framework (NFIF),2016-2020. The objective is to reduce the number vulnerable households due to low unstable incomes, low confidence and self-exclusion from the current 28.2 per cent.\n\nThe bank also has its own training institute located in Mwanza.\n\nRecently, Bank of Tanzania was involved in an incident which resulted in an audit of its External Arrears Account. About Tshs were discovered to have been lost in 2005 through dubious payments. As a result, the President of Tanzania fired the bank's Governor, D. T. S. Ballali, on 2008. Professor Benno Ndullu was appointed to take this position on the same day.\n\n"}
{"id": "2291483", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291483", "title": "Sheila Williams", "text": "Sheila Williams\n\nSheila Williams (born 1956 in Springfield, Massachusetts) is the editor of \"Asimov's Science Fiction\" magazine.\n\nSheila grew up in a family of five in western Massachusetts. Her mother had a master's degree in microbiology. Ms. Williams’ interest in science fiction came from her father who read Edgar Rice Burroughs books to her as a child. Later Ms. Williams received a bachelor's degree from Elmira College in Elmira, New York, although she studied at the London School of Economics during her junior year. She received her Master's from Washington University in St. Louis. She is married to David Bruce and has two daughters.\n\nShe became interested in \"Isaac Asimov's Science Fiction Magazine\" (as it was then titled) while studying philosophy at Washington University. In 1982 she was hired at the magazine, and worked with Isaac Asimov for ten years. While working there, she co-founded the Dell Magazines Award for Undergraduate Excellence in Science Fiction and Fantasy Writing (at one time called the Isaac Asimov Award for Undergraduate Excellence in Science Fiction and Fantasy writing). In 2004, with the retirement of Gardner Dozois, she became the editor of the magazine.\n\nAlong with Gardner Dozois she also edited the \"Isaac Asimov's\" anthology series. She also co-edited \"A Woman's Liberation: A Choice of Futures by and About Women\" (2001) with Connie Willis. She has edited a retrospective anthology of fiction published by \"Asimov's\": \"\". \"Booklist\" called the book \"A gem, and a credit to editor Williams.\" Most recently, she edited Enter a Future: Fantastic Tales from Asimov's Science Fiction.\n\nShe won the Hugo Award for Best Short Form Editor in 2011 and 2012.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2291485", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291485", "title": "Guadalupe Union School District", "text": "Guadalupe Union School District\n\nGuadalupe School District is a school district in Guadalupe, California, in northwestern Santa Barbara County. The district is composed of two schools, Mary Buren School (K-5) and Kermit McKenzie Junior High School (6-8) and there are 1157 students enrolled in this school district.\n\nIt is bordered on the east by the Santa Maria-Bonita Elementary School District, on the southeast by the Orcutt Union Elementary School District, and on the south by the Casmalia Elementary School District.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2291487", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291487", "title": "Erbin", "text": "Erbin\n\nErbin may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2291501", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291501", "title": "Gulfview Heights, South Australia", "text": "Gulfview Heights, South Australia\n\nGulfview Heights is a small suburb of Adelaide, South Australia and is within the City of Salisbury and City of Tea Tree Gully local government area. It is adjacent to Wynn Vale, Salisbury East and Para Hills.\n\nGulfview Heights is a relatively affluent new estate suburb carved out of Salisbury East and Para Hills. The main estate south of Wynn Vale Drive was first settled in 1996 and the whole area was officially renamed in 2001.\n\nThe area was originally farmed by William Pedler, a shoemaker whose trade gave rise to the name of Cobbler Creek. The reserve was set aside in 1970 and declared in 1989.\n\nThe size of Gulfview Heights is approximately 4 km². It has 4 parks covering nearly 10% of the total area. There is 1 school located in Gulfview Heights. The population of Gulfview Heights in 2001 was 2,632 people. By 2006 the population was 2,971 showing a population growth of 13% in the area during that time. The predominant age group in Gulfview Heights is 10 – 19 years. \n\nThe boundary of Gulfview Heights is the Smith Road extension and the southern boundary of Cobbler Creek Recreation Park to the north, the suburb of Wynn Vale to the east, Bridge Road to the west and Para Hills Ovals & Yulinda Gully to the south. Bayview Parade is the main thoroughfare for the estate, while Kiekebusch Road services the north (both running roughly north–south). Wynn Vale Drive and McIntyre Road run through the suburb in a roughly east–west direction.\n\nThe suburb has one primary school – Gulfview Heights Primary School (formerly Salisbury South-East Primary School) – and is near several others such as King's Baptist Grammar School, Keithcot Primary in Wynn Vale and Keller Road Primary in Salisbury East. Para Hills and Golden Grove High Schools are nearby, as is the Golden Grove Village Shopping Centre.\n\nThe 288 hectare Cobbler Creek Recreation Park is accessible from Smith Road, and ranges from open grasslands near Bridge Road to red gums along the creek itself. There are no visitor facilities or amenities other than a number of walking trails starting from Smith Road extension and McIntyre Road. There is also a number of parks and reserves the largest being Wynn Vale Gullies (58 Ha and includes a lake), Pepermint Gum Gully (48 Ha) and Yulinda Gully (22 Ha). All of which extend into neighbouring suburbs. There is also a number of smaller parks and reserves, several with play equipment in Leonard Street Reserve and Cordoba Avenue Reserve.\n\nThe 560 bus route links Bridge Road with the Adelaide O-Bahn at the Tea Tree Plaza Interchange, and also to the Salisbury bus/train interchange.\nThe 500 & 502 bus routes link Bridge Road with the Adelaide O-Bahn at the Paradise Interchange, and also to the Salisbury bus/train interchange\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2291506", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291506", "title": "What Is and What Should Never Be", "text": "What Is and What Should Never Be\n\n\"What Is and What Should Never Be\" is a song by English rock band Led Zeppelin. It was written by Jimmy Page and Robert Plant and was included as the second track on \"Led Zeppelin II\" (1969). \n\n\"What is and What Should Never Be\" was one of the first songs on which Page used his soon-to-become trademark Gibson Les Paul for recording. The production makes liberal use of stereo as the guitars pan back and forth between channels. Robert Plant's vocals were phased during the verses. Record producer Rick Rubin has remarked, \"The descending riff [of \"What Is and What Should Never Be\"] is amazing: It's like a bow is being drawn back, and then it releases. The rhythm of the vocals is almost like a rap. It's insane — one of their most psychedelic songs.\" \nThis was also one of the first songs recorded by the band for which Robert Plant received writing credit. According to rock journalist Stephen Davis, the author of the Led Zeppelin biography \"Hammer of the Gods: The Led Zeppelin Saga\", the lyrics for this song reflect a romance Plant had with his wife's younger sister.\n\n\"What Is and What Should Never Be\" was performed live at Led Zeppelin concerts between 1969 and 1973. A live version taken from a performance at the Royal Albert Hall in 1970 can be seen on the \"Led Zeppelin DVD\". Another was included on disc two of the live triple album \"How The West Was Won\". Two more versions were included in BBC Sessions.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2291508", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291508", "title": "Rites of Passage (Indigo Girls album)", "text": "Rites of Passage (Indigo Girls album)\n\nRites of Passage is the fourth studio album by Indigo Girls, released in 1992. It was reissued and remastered in 2000 with two bonus tracks.\n\n\n2000 reissue bonus tracks\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2291514", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291514", "title": "Agaric", "text": "Agaric\n\nAn agaric () is a type of mushroom fungus fruiting body characterized by the presence of a pileus (cap) that is clearly differentiated from the stipe (stalk), with lamellae (gills) on the underside of the pileus. \"Agaric\" can also refer to a basidiomycete species characterized by an agaric-type fruiting body. Archaically agaric meant 'tree-fungus' (after Latin \"agaricum\"); however, that changed with the Linnaean interpretation in 1753 when Linnaeus used the generic name \"Agaricus\" for gilled mushrooms.\n\nMost species of agarics are within orders of and describe the members of the order Agaricales in the subphylum Agaricomycotina. The exceptions, where agarics have evolved independently, feature largely in the orders Russulales, Boletales, Hymenochaetales and several other groups of the overarching phylum Basidiomycetes. Old systems of classification place all agarics in the Agaricales and some (mostly older) sources use \"agarics\" as the colloquial collective noun for the Agaricales. Contemporary sources now tend to use the term euagarics to refer to all agaric members of the Agaricales. \"Agaric\" is also sometimes used as a common name for members of the genus \"Agaricus\", as well as for members of other genera; for example, \"Amanita muscaria\" is sometimes called \"fly agaric\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2291543", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291543", "title": "Dessa", "text": "Dessa\n\nMargret Wander (born May 23, 1981), better known by her stage name Dessa, is an American rapper, singer, writer, and former record executive. She is a member of the indie hip hop collective Doomtree.\n\nDessa was born to Robert Wander Jr. and Sylvia Burgos Toftness, and has a younger brother, Max. Her father is white and her mother Puerto Rican. Dessa went to Southwest High School in Minneapolis, Minnesota, graduating from the IB Diploma Programme in 1999. She attended the University of Minnesota, where she earned a B.A. in philosophy. Before becoming an artist full-time, she worked as a technical writer for a medical manufacturer.\n\nInitially drawn to their raw aesthetics and unique sound, Dessa forged a friendship with Doomtree. Soon after, she was asked to join the crew and did so. Since 2005, Dessa has toured with and appeared on all Doomtree albums, as well as on the other members' solo albums. She was the CEO of Doomtree; however, she relinquished that post to her label mate, Lazerbeak, to focus on her own career.\n\nDessa's debut solo EP, \"False Hopes\", was released in 2005. Despite being only fifteen minutes long, it was listed as one of the top local albums of the year by \"Minneapolis Star Tribune\".\n\nDessa's first solo album, \"A Badly Broken Code\", was released on January 19, 2010. The singles from this album were \"Dixon's Girl\" and \"The Chaconne.\" The album features production from Paper Tiger, MK Larada, Lazerbeak, Cecil Otter and Big Jess. MK Larada also designed the album art.\n\nIn 2011, Dessa released \"Castor, the Twin\", a remix album featuring new arrangements of songs released on previous projects, primarily \"A Badly Broken Code\". The original production in the remixed tracks was replaced with live instrumentation.\n\nIn 2013, Dessa released her second full-length album \"Parts of Speech\" that made its debut in Billboard's Top 200. The singles from this album are \"Warsaw\" and \"Call Off Your Ghost.\"\n\nOn February 23, 2018, Dessa released her third full-length album Chime, that made its debut in Billboard's Top 200, and at #3 on Billboard's Independent Charts. Chime was listed as one of NPR Music's 40 Favorite Albums of 2018 (so far).\n\nOn March 26 and 28, 2019, she recorded concerts with the Minnesota Orchestra; the collaboration lead to a live album released in November 2019.\n\nAt the fourth annual Doomtree Blowout in 2008, and via Doomtree Press, Dessa released \"Spiral Bound\" a seventy-page collection of fiction and poetry. Following that, in 2013, she released a book of poems called \"A Pound Of Steam\", in partnership with Rain Taxi.\n\nAfter having been scouted by the Francis Golden Literary Agency, in 2018 Dessa signed a book-publishing deal with Dutton Penguin, which released her collection of creative non-fiction essays entitled \"My Own Devices: True Stories from the Road on Music, Science, and Senseless Love\" on September 18, 2018. The book is an uncompromising and candid account of her life in motion, in music, and in love, and was listed by NPR in their guide for 2018's Best Reads.\n\nDessa's work has also been published in periodicals, including a 2009 poem in \"Ars Medica\" and a 2017 article about visiting New Orleans as a tourist in \"The New York Times Magazine\".\n\nDessa is a founding member of The Boy Sopranos, an almost all-female a cappella group, with frequent collaborators Jessy Greene, Aby Wolf and others. She also taught at the Institute of Production and Recording and the McNally Smith College of Music. She was also a member of the indie super-group Gayngs founded by Ryan Olson (of Poliça fame), in 2010, along with 22 other musicians including Justin Vernon.\n\nOn March 2, 2012, Dessa presented \"Mic Lines: Art, Ethics, and their Contested Connections\" at Augsburg College in Minneapolis, Minnesota, as part of the three-day Nobel Peace Prize Forum .\n\nDessa was the host of Twin Cities Public Television's The Lowertown Line, a live music series, from 2012 to 2014.\n\nIn 2012, she partnered with the \"artisan cosmetic house\" from Minnesota, Elixery, to create her own shade of lipstick, all of the proceeds of which were donated to CARE (relief agency).\n\nShe was a contributing artist on the 2015 Saint Paul-based \"Plume Project,\" a public art installment in which images and colors were projected onto steam rising from a smokestack in downtown Saint Paul and music and spoken-word pieces could be accessed by calling a phone number. Dessa read her poem \"Circle Games.\"\n\nShe had a flavor of ice cream named after her on July 27, 2016, by Izzy's Ice Cream, “Dessa’s Existential Crunch”. The same year, she contributed to \"The Hamilton Mixtape\" with her cover of the song \"Congratulations.\"\n\nDessa has been involved with the popular fiction podcast Welcome to Night Vale as both a contributing writer and musical guest. Her first appearance was on the \"Weather\" segment of Episode 27, \"First Date,\" which featured Doomtree's \"Team The Best Team.\" She was the musical guest for Welcome to Night Vale's second anniversary live show, performing \"Call Off Your Ghost\" for its weather segment. She appeared again as part of Doomtree for episode 61, \"BRINY DEPTHS,\" which featured \"The Bends\" as its Weather; her single \"Fire Drills\" was the Weather for episode 122, \"A Story of Love and Horror, Part 2: 'Spire.'\" In 2017, she co-wrote and acted in episode 113, \"Niecelet,\" lending her voice to the character Sabina.\n\nIn April 2017, she headlined a show with the Minnesota Orchestra, which featured new arrangements of her songs as well as a story performed in prose. She followed that set of performances with another two sold-out performances in October 2018, this time premiering new material from her album \"Chime\". In December 2018, it was announced that Dessa would return for an additional two performances with the Minnesota Orchestra, on March 26 and 28, 2019; both performances were recorded to be released at a later date in collaboration with Doomtree Records.\n\nDessa sang the National Anthem at the Minnesota Twins home opener on April 5, 2018. And on July 28, 2018, she sang the National Anthem at the 2018 WNBA All-star game held in Minneapolis.\n\nIn August 2018, Dessa traveled with the Minnesota Orchestra as they went on a two-week, five-stop tour through South Africa, reportedly the first tour of an American orchestra to the country, and helped document the trip for Minnesota Public Radio alongside MPR journalist and cultural critic Euan Kerr.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2291566", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291566", "title": "Gene Shay", "text": "Gene Shay\n\nGene Shay (born Ivan Shaner; March 4, 1935 – April 17, 2020) was an American radio personality. Shay was born in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania and was a representative of the city's folk music scene. He produced weekly folk radio shows since 1962 (now on WXPN and his final show on WXPN was on February 1, 2015; previously heard on WDAS-FM, WMMR, WIOQ and WHYY-FM). A founder of the annual Philadelphia Folk Festival and its emcee since its inception, he has been called the \"Dean of American folk DJs\" by \"The Philadelphia Daily News\" and \"The Grandfather of Philadelphia Folk Music\" by \"The Philadelphia Inquirer\". Shay also served as a host for the online \"Folk Alley\" stream originating at Kent State University station WKSU and carried on WXPN's website.\n\nSome of his early recorded interviews with Joni Mitchell, Jackson Browne, John Denver, Tom Waits, Phil Ochs, Bonnie Raitt and Judy Collins were bootlegged.\n\nShay was the first to bring Bob Dylan to Philadelphia in 1963 for his debut concert. As an advertising writer and producer, he wrote the original radio commercials for Woodstock. He helped design the famous \"smiling banjo\" logo for the Philadelphia Folk Festival and years later came up with the name \"World Cafe\" for the nationally syndicated series produced by WXPN and distributed by National Public Radio.\n\nFor a few years he edited and published \"Singer-Songwriter\", a newsletter that had subscribers in the United States, Canada and Japan.\n\nHe received a lifetime achievement award from the Delaware Valley Music Poll in 1994 and was inducted into Temple University's Radio, TV & Theater Hall of Fame on October 25, 2005.\n\nHe was a partner in Sliced Bread Records and produced a number of folk music collections for that label. The most notable may have been \"What's That I Hear, The Songs Of Phil Ochs\", a tribute album featuring Phil Ochs songs interpreted by more than a score of popular folksingers, and the \"Philadelphia Folk Festival 40th Anniversary Anthology\", a historic four CD collection of recorded Festival performances from Pete Seeger, Bonnie Raitt, Fairport Convention, John Prine, Arlo Guthrie and many others. The \"Moses Rascoe Blues\" album he produced for Flying Fish Records was considered for a Grammy Award nomination.\n\nShay served as a Charter Board Member of the North American Folk Alliance, served on the Board of \"Sing Out! Magazine\", the national folk music quarterly founded by Woody Guthrie and Pete Seeger in the late 1940s, and he was a voting member on the Board of Governors of NARAS in Philadelphia.\n\nShay died at the age of 85, on April 17, 2020 from COVID-19 in Lower Merion Township, Pennsylvania.\n\n"}
{"id": "2291574", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291574", "title": "Talk Radio (film)", "text": "Talk Radio (film)\n\nTalk Radio is a 1988 American drama film directed by Oliver Stone and starring Eric Bogosian, Alec Baldwin, Ellen Greene, and Leslie Hope. The film was based on the play of the same name by Bogosian and Tad Savinar. Portions of the film and play were based on the assassination of radio host Alan Berg in 1984 and the book \"Talked to Death: The Life and Murder of Alan Berg\" by Stephen Singular. The film was entered into the 39th Berlin International Film Festival, where it won the Silver Bear.\n\nBarry Champlain, a Jewish radio personality in Dallas, Texas, is a host with a caustic sense of humor and a knack for condescending to his audience with his controversial political views.\n\nChamplain's radio show is about to go nationwide. A former suit salesman, he achieves his rise to fame through guest shots on the Jeff Fisher radio show. Barry begins to steal the show with his acerbic sense of humor and sharp wit, which aggravates Fisher. Barry is subsequently given his own show which rises to the top of the Arbitron radio ratings. Barry receives calls from people who appreciate him for what he does and how he does it as well as people who seem to hate him. Attacking everyone from gays to drug addicts to rednecks to African Americans, he has a substantial number of hostile callers, from people who take offense to his attitude to radical right wingers to hate groups phoning in to harass and intimidate him. He receives threatening fan mail when one caller makes a bomb threat. His rise to fame is accompanied not only with attention from radical far-right elements, but also with the alienation of his wife.\n\nAs his show is going through a final audition to go into national syndication, Barry grows increasingly isolated and asks his ex-wife Ellen to come and visit him, saying he needs her input and that she's the only person he trusts. They attempt a return to their relationship. Using a fake name and calling from the radio studio, Ellen talks to Barry on the air—the only place he seems to relate to people openly—in an attempt to reach him, to bring him back from the depression he seems to be suffering from. She begs for him to come back, but Barry refuses, bitterly attacking her as the radio production staff, all friends of Ellen, watch in horror; Ellen walks away. Barry confesses his true intentions, admitting he cares more for personal gain than the societal ills he addresses and refusing to apologize for his hypocrisy. He shouts that the American people scare him because of what has happened to his friends, family, and co-workers. He berates his callers that they have nothing worth saying, and that they tolerate his abuse and return for more. He screams at them to go away, seemingly unaware of the obvious fact that he attracts his own listeners and most of the ire he receives. In the end he realizes he has made his own bed and is as stuck with them as they are with him. Despite Barry's meltdown, his co-workers tell him it's now the highest rated segment in the show's history and his boss adds that the show is going to go national.\n\nWhile Barry is walking to his car, an apparent fan asks for his autograph. As Barry signs it, the \"fan\" pulls out a gun and shoots him several times, killing him. As the film ends, callers to Barry's show, then his co-workers and Ellen, speak on air about him. They say that Barry was a talented, smart and funny man, but maybe he finally pushed someone too far.\n\nEric Bogosian wrote the screenplay with help from director Oliver Stone. The script was almost entirely based on Bogosian's original play with some biographical information about Alan Berg, a talk show host in Denver who was murdered in 1984 by white supremacists. In his research for the film version, Bogosian often watched the on-air production of Tom Leykis' talk show, then originating from Los Angeles station KFI. Bogosian's fictional character shares many speech patterns and mannerisms with real-life talker Leykis.\n\nFilming took place mostly in Dallas, Texas and Irving, Texas. Unlike the film, the original play takes place entirely during the on-air broadcast and there are no scenes outside the radio station.\n\n\"Talk Radio\" received mostly positive reviews from critics and holds an 82% fresh rating on the review aggregate website Rotten Tomatoes based on 49 reviews, with a weighted average of 7.06/10. The consensus summarizes: \"The gripping union of a director and star at the peak of their respective powers, \"Talk Radio\" offers the viewer a singularly unlikable character and dares you to look away.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2291579", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291579", "title": "The Covenant (novel)", "text": "The Covenant (novel)\n\nThe Covenant is a historical novel by American author James A. Michener, published in 1980. The novel is set in South Africa, home to five distinct populations: Bantu (native Black tribes), Coloured (the result of generations of racial mixture between persons of European descent and the indigenous occupants of South Africa along with slaves brought in from Angola, Indonesia, India, Madagascar and the east Coast of Africa), British, Afrikaner, and Indian, Chinese, and other foreign workers. The novel traces the history, interaction, and conflicts between these populations, from prehistoric times up to the 1970s.\n\nMichener writes largely from the point of view of the Afrikaners, descendants of Dutch settlers and French Huguenot immigrants who traveled to South Africa to practice freedom of worship in the Calvinist tradition, and other European groups (such as the Germans), all of whom were absorbed by the Afrikaans-speaking Dutch Reformed Church. The Afrikaners, whose Dutch ancestors first established a trading and refueling stop at Cape Town in the 17th century to service ships moving between Holland and Java, and whose ranks were augmented by Huguenot and other northern European immigrants, considered themselves the \"New Israelites\". They found in the Old Testament verification for their belief that God favored their conquest of the new land. Their strict, fundamentalist interpretation of the Bible supported them through the Great Trek of the 19th century; battles against Zulu and other Bantu tribes, who also laid claim to lands to the north; the Anglo-Boer War (when after the British won the war on the conventional battlefield and took all the main Boer towns and cities, a few Boer Commandos or guerrilla bands of a few hundred Afrikaner farmers continued to hold out in isolated pockets of the veld until the cessation of hostilities, despite tens of thousands of British regulars combing the countryside in pursuit of them); and their institution of Apartheid in the 20th century, when they insisted on racial purity, separatism, and white supremacy, per the moral expectations of the God of Israel in the Old Testament and their own determination to keep political power in the hands of Whites of European descent.\n\nMichener suggests that the Afrikaner oppression of Blacks was partly due to Dutch animosity towards the English, who assumed political and financial control of southern Africa in 1795 and fought against the traditional way of life, including slavery, pursued by Afrikaner farmers, or Boers. As one Bantu character observes, \"no matter whether the English or the Dutch win, the Blacks always lose.\"\nBoth historical and fictional characters appear throughout the novel. The experiences of the fictional van Doorn family illustrate the Dutch and Huguenot heritage of South Africa, and in the 1970s also illustrate the differences between liberal and conservative Afrikaners. The fictional Saltwood family represents the English settlement of the area. The Nxumalo family illustrates the area's black heritage and culture. African Zulu leader Shaka appears in the novel, during the chapter on the Mfecane.\n\n"}
{"id": "2291581", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291581", "title": "Ode to Psyche", "text": "Ode to Psyche\n\n\"Ode to Psyche\" is a poem by John Keats written in spring 1819. The poem is the first of his 1819 odes, which include \"Ode on a Grecian Urn\" and \"Ode to a Nightingale\". \"Ode to Psyche\" is an experiment in the ode genre, and Keats's attempt at an expanded version of the sonnet format that describes a dramatic scene. The poem serves as an important departure from Keats's early poems, which frequently describe an escape into the pleasant realms of one's imagination. Keats uses the imagination to show the narrator's intent to resurrect Psyche and reincarnate himself into Eros (love). Keats attempts this by dedicating an \"untrodden region\" of his mind to the worship of the neglected goddess.\n\nKeats was never a professional writer. Instead, he supported himself with a small income that he earned as a surgeon for Guy's Hospital. At the age of 23, Keats left the hospital, losing his source of income, in order to devote himself to writing poetry. He lived with Charles Brown, a friend who collected Keats's poetry while supporting him, during spring 1819 and composed poetry. The early products of this effort included \"La Belle Dame sans Merci\" and \"Ode to Psyche\", the first of a series of odes that he would write that year. It is uncertain as to when the poem was actually completed, but Keats sent the poem to his brother on 3 May 1819 with an attached letter saying, \"The following poem, the last I have written, is the first and only one with which I have taken even moderate pains; I have, for the most part, dashed off my lines in a hurry; this one I have done leisurely; I think it reads the more richly for it, and it will I hope encourage me to write other things in even a more peaceable and healthy spirit.\"\n\nKeats was exposed to a few sources of the Psyche myth. His contemporary sources for the myth included Lempriere's \"Classical Dictionary\" and Mary Tighe's \"Psyche\", an 1805 work that Keats read as a child and returned to in 1818. Keats wrote to his brother George, just a few months before writing \"Ode to Psyche\", to say that he was no longer delighted by Tighe's writing. Dissatisfied, he turned to Apuleius's \"Golden Ass\", translated by William Adlington in 1566, and read through the earlier version of the Cupid and Psyche myth. After reading the work and realizing that the myth was established during the twilight of Roman mythology, Keats wrote to George: \"You must recollect that Psyche was not embodied as a goddess before the time of Apuleius the Platonist who lived after the Augustan age, and consequently the Goddess was never worshipped or sacrificed to with any of the ancient fervour—and perhaps never thought of in the old religion—I am more orthodox than to let a heathen Goddess be so neglected.\"\n\n\"Ode to Psyche\", Keats's 67 line ode, was the first of his major odes of 1819. As such, the poem is an experiment in the ode structure that he was to then rely on for his next five odes. Although Keats spent time considering the language of the poem, the choice of wording and phrasing is below that found within his later works, including \"Hyperion\" or the odes that followed. \"Ode to Psyche\" is important because it is Keats's first attempt at an altered sonnet form that would include longer more lines and would end with a message or truth. Also, he did not want the poem to be based simply around that message, so he incorporated narrative elements, such as plot and characters, along with a preface to the poem. Of these additions, the use of a preface was discontinued in his next odes along with the removal of details that describe setting within the poems; they would only be implied within later odes.\n\nH. W. Garrod, in his analysis of Keats's sonnet form, believes that Keats took various aspects of sonnet forms and incorporated only those that he thought would benefit his poetry. In particular, Keats relies on Petrarch's sonnet structure and the \"pouncing rhymes\" that are found within Petrarch's octave stanzas. However, M. R. Ridley disputes that Keats favours Petrarch and claims that the odes incorporate a Shakespearean rhyme scheme. Regardless of which sonnet structure was favoured over the other, Keats wanted to avoid the downsides of both forms. \"Ode to Psyche\" begins with an altered Shakespearean rhyme scheme of . The use of rhyme does not continue throughout the poem, and the lines that follow are divided into different groups: a quatrain, couplets, and a line on its own. These are then followed by a series of twelve lines that are modelled after the Shakespearean sonnet form, but lack the final couplet. The next lines are of two quatrains, with rhyme, followed by two lines that repeat the previous rhymes, and then a final quatrain, with rhyme.\n\nThe poem does not describe the plot of the original Cupid and Psyche myth: according to Harold Bloom, the poem \"has little to do with the accepted myth\". In the original myth, Aphrodite punishes Psyche, a well admired girl, by having Cupid use his power to make her fall in love. Cupid, instead, falls in love with her, but he could only be with her in the cover of darkness in order to disguise his identity. Curious, she uses a light to reveal Cupid's identity, but he flees from her presence. Psyche begins to search after Cupid, and Aphrodite forces her to perform various tasks before she could be united with her love. After nearly dying from one of the tasks, Cupid asks Zeus to transform Psyche into a goddess so the two can be together.\n\nThe action of \"Ode to Psyche\" begins with a narrator witnessing two individuals embracing. The narrator immediately recognizes Cupid and is astonished when he recognizes Psyche:\nThe third stanza describes how Psyche, though a newer Goddess, is better than the other deities. However, she is neglected while the others were worshipped:\nThe previous list of what Psyche lacks in terms of religious worship only describes external symbols of worship. In the fourth stanza, the narrator emphasizes the internal when he describes how he is inspired by Psyche:\nThe narrator, inspired by the young goddess, becomes her priest. His imagination allows him to join with both the natural and supernatural elements of Psyche, and his form of worship is within himself while \"Ode to Psyche\" the poem serves as a song in praise of the goddess. The narrator becomes the prophet for Psyche and says in the final stanza:\nIn the conclusion of the poem, the narrator metaphorically says that he will expand his consciousness, which would allow him to better understand both the good and the bad of the world. This will allow the narrator to attain a new sense of inspiration while providing Psyche with a sanctuary:\nThe moment that Cupid and Psyche are revealed is an example of \"Keatsian intensity\" as they are neither in a state of separation nor are they united; they exist in a state somewhere in between in a similar manner to the figures depicted in Keats's \"Ode on a Grecian Urn\". The narrator's ability to witness the union is unique to Keats's version of the Psyche myth because the lovers in the original story were covered in darkness. However, the narrator questions if he was able to see them at all or if he was dreaming. This inability of the narrator to know if he was awake is a theme that appears in many of Keats's odes that followed, including \"Ode on Indolence\", \"Ode on a Grecian Urn\", and \"Ode to a Nightingale\". Regardless of the narrator's state of consciousness, he is able to relate himself to Cupid as he believes himself to be in love with Psyche, representing the mind.\n\nPart of the problem within \"Ode to Psyche\" is in the narrator's claim that Psyche was neglected since she became a goddess later than the other Greco-Roman deities. As such, the narrator serves as a prophetic figure who is devoted to the soul. Worship towards the soul is through use of the imagination, an idea that shows the influence of William Wordsworth upon the poem's themes. In particular, the lines are reminiscent of the description of inspiration and the muse within Wordsworth's \"The Recluse\". To serve Psyche, the narrator of \"Ode to Psyche\" seeks to worship her by thoroughly exploring the regions of his mind. However, the temple dedicated to the goddess within his mind does not yet exist.\n\nThis reveals that there is a struggle between the acceptance of imaginative experience that exists only within a small part of the mind. This struggle, according to Walter Evert, has \"no relevance to the world of external action and perhaps no truth to offer even the visionary dreamer himself.\" However Anthony Hecht looks at the problem in a different way and believes that there must be a connection between the external and internal worlds for the narrator to even face the problem. Regardless, the narrator never states that this worship of Psyche or embracing the imagination would aid mankind, but the poem does rejoice in exercising the imagination.\n\nIn addition to the theme of dedicating one's self to the mind, the theme of reception plays heavily upon the poem's presentation; Andrew Bennett states that the poem, like all poems, is \"'heard' both by itself (and therefore not heard) and by an audience that reads the poem and 'hears' it differently\". Bennett implies that the word \"wrung\" in line one contains a double entendre as it also alludes to the \"ringing in the ears\" involved with active listening. The poem's treatment of the reader as a third-party to the conversation between the narrator and the goddess exemplifies the narrative question common among many of Keats's odes and leads Bennett to question how exactly the reader should regard his place within the poem, or outside of it.\n\nResponding to the poem, Keats's friend Leigh Hunt declared that \"When Mr Keats errs in his poetry, it is from the ill management of the good things,--exuberance of ideas. Once or twice, he does so in a taste positively bad, like Marino or Cowley, as in a line in his 'Ode to Psyche'... but it is once or twice only, in his present volume.\"\n\nRobert Bridges, turn of the 19th-century literary critic, wrote \"for the sake of the last section (l. 50 to end), tho' this is open to the objection that the imagery is work'd up to outface the idea—which is characteristic of Keats' manner. Yet the extreme beauty quenches every dissatisfaction. The beginning of this ode is not so good, and the middle part is midway in excellence.\" Later, T. S. Eliot thought very highly of Keats's work and wrote \"The Odes—especially perhaps the \"Ode to Psyche\"—are enough for his reputation.\"\n\nKennet Allott, in defending against any possible harsh criticism of \"Ode to Psyche\", argues that the poem \"is the Cinderella of Keats's great odes, but it is hard to see why it should be so neglected, and at least two poets imply that the conventional treatment of the poem is shabby and undeserved\". Allott then cites Bridges and Eliot as views that he sympathizes with, and he believes that the poem \"is neither unflawed nor the best of odes, but to me it illustrates better than any other Keats's possession of poetic power in conjunction with what was for him an unusual artistic detachment, besides being a remarkable poem in its own right. This may be another way of saying that it is the most architectural of the odes, as it is certainly the one that culminates most dramatically.\"\n\nWalter Jackson Bate states that the poem has \"always puzzled readers ... But finding the poem so elusive, we return to it only after we know the others far better. If we had hope to use them as keys, we discover they do not quite fit the lock. Meanwhile they have given us a standard hard to equal. Hence we either feel a disappointment about the 'Ode to Psyche' or else, remembering the care Keats supposedly gave it, we once more put the poem aside for future consideration.\" However, he also states that \"The modern, respectful attitude toward this ode is deserved. But the itch for novelty has encouraged a few critics to suggest that the poem, in some dark but fundamental way, has more to it as a whole than do the later odes.\"\n\nTo Harold Bloom, the last lines of Keats's ode \"rivals any as an epitome of the myth-making faculty\". He elaborates further on this when he writes, \"The poem \"Ode to Psyche\" is unique, and also central, for its art is a natural growth out of nature, based as it is upon a very particular act of consciousness, which Keats arrests in all its concreteness.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2291590", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291590", "title": "René Lévesque Boulevard", "text": "René Lévesque Boulevard\n\nRené Lévesque Boulevard (), previously named Dorchester Boulevard/Boulevard Dorchester) is one of the main streets in Montreal, Quebec, Canada.\n\nIt is a main east–west thoroughfare passing through the downtown core in the borough of Ville-Marie. The street begins on the west at Atwater Avenue (though see below) and continues until it merges with Notre Dame Street East just east of Parthenais Street. This boulevard is named after former sovereignist Quebec Premier René Lévesque.\n\nMuch of René Lévesque Boulevard is lined with highrise office towers. Notable structures bordering René Lévesque Boulevard include, from west to east, the former Montreal Children's Hospital, the Canadian Centre for Architecture, E-Commerce Place, 1250 René-Lévesque, CIBC Tower, Mary, Queen of the World Cathedral, the Queen Elizabeth Hotel, Place Ville-Marie, Central Station, Telus Tower, St. Patrick's Basilica, Complexe Desjardins, Complexe Guy-Favreau, Hydro-Québec Building, UQAM and the Maison Radio-Canada. Former structures on the street include the Laurentian Hotel and a residential area razed to make way for the future YUL Condos residential project.\n\nAll of Canada's French radio and television networks are located within a few blocks of each other, making the street French Canada's media centre.\n\nThe street separates the adjacent Place du Canada and Dorchester Square.\n\nFrom the time of its formal naming in 1844, the street was known as \"Dorchester Boulevard\" in honour of Guy Carleton, 1st Baron Dorchester (1724–1808), Governor of the Province of Quebec and Governor General of Canada. As part of the Golden Square Mile, several mansions once stood on this street.\n\nShortly after Jean Drapeau was elected mayor in 1954, his administration ordered the destruction of hundreds of buildings along Dorchester. In 1955, the street was widened into an eight-lane boulevard.\n\nThe name was changed in 1987 after the death of Quebec premier René Lévesque. A portion of the thoroughfare located in the largely anglophone city of Westmount, between Clarke and Atwater, retains the name \"Boulevard Dorchester\", as does a portion in the mainly French-speaking Montréal-Est, where it is known as \"Rue Dorchester.\"\n"}
{"id": "2291594", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291594", "title": "Kenneth W. Royce", "text": "Kenneth W. Royce\n\nKenneth W. Royce is an American author who primarily writes under the pen-name of Boston T. Party.\nHe has written non-fiction books that offer a libertarian stance on privacy, police encounters, tax resistance and gun politics. His books are published by Javelin Press, which only publishes these works.\nHe has written one fiction novel, \"Molôn Labé!\", and is one of the founders of the Free State Wyoming project. In 2005, Royce was interviewed by Larry Pratt of Gun Owners of America on the nationally syndicated \"Live Fire\" radio show, about the Free State Wyoming project. He also speaks at Libertarian conferences.\n\nAccording to Royce, the Constitution was written not with the intention of creating a free society, but to create a political system of an ever-expanding Federal Government at the expense of individual rights and state prerogatives. His 1997 \"Hologram of Liberty\" led to his conclusion that only a free state movement could possibly counter the national trend of increasing regulation. A new version was released in 2009 with forty added pages addressing new court cases, the Patriot Act, and the (forever) War on Terrorism, and more.\n\n\"Good-Bye April 15th\" details Royce's views on how the IRS has tricked millions of Americans into a limited tax jurisdiction. Published in 1992, Javelin Press announced that the title would go out of print in 2006: \"Boston hates to see his first title go, but he grew weary of the tedious subject matter years ago and all the personal attention many of its readers often expected. So, he quit pushing the book, which no doubt reduced sales over time. He is very proud, however, of the book and that no reader ever contacted him with a negative experience from having used his procedures. Thus, the information (after 13 years!) has stood the test of time for thousands of readers. . . . Since 1992 there have happily emerged several new personalities, books, and websites on untaxation.\"\n\n\"You and the Police\" deals with how to manage encounters with police and other law enforcement personnel. Royce stresses education as the best way to have successful encounters. He claims to have developed the techniques presented in the book through repeated experiences with law enforcement. Specifically treated is how to deal with law enforcement encounters when there are firearms involved. A new version was released in 2005 with forty added pages addressing new court cases, the Patriot Act, and the (forever) War on Terrorism, and much more.\n\n\"Bulletproof Privacy\" covers how to maintain privacy in what Royce refers to as a more dangerous time. He covers both legal methods and those of questionable (or jurisdiction-dependent) legality. This was published in 1997, and Royce wrote an updated version to deal with the Patriot Act, the Internet, and other current privacy issues. This new version, which came out in May 2009, was titled \"One Nation Under Surveillance.\"\n\n\"Boston's Gun Bible\" is Royce's 848 page exhaustive firearms almanac and philosophical treatise on becoming and remaining an armed citizen. The last full revision was in 2002, but dozens of pages have been added or updated in the reprints of 2004, 2005, and 2006.\n\n\"Boston on Surviving Y2K\" is a survivalist book published in 1998 about how to prepare for the then-widely expected Y2K problem and also contains general information on emergency preparedness. \"Surviving Doomsday (A Practical Guide)\" is essentially a completed version of the same book that was published in September 1999 containing much more detail than was provided in the earlier book. Both books are widely suitable for general purpose disaster preparation and planning for individuals interested in surviving a wide range of disasters.\n\n\"Molôn Labé!\" is Royce's only work of fiction. Published in 2004, it covers his view of what could happen as a result of a libertarian migration to specific counties within a specific state. It is partly a blueprint for his Free State Wyoming (FSW). In 2007, Royce told \"The Casper Star Tribune\" newspaper: \"...FSWers aren't moving to Wyoming to change it, but to preserve and enhance its culture of freedom-mindedness. The state is already a 'good fit' for us, else we wouldn't be moving there.\" \n\n\"Safari Dreams\" is Royce's entrance into big game hunting, for hunting both Dangerous Game (DG) and plains animals in Africa, based on his experiences from three hunting safari trips there. Published in January 2008, it covers the adventure and reasons for big game hunting in Africa, the selection of appropriate locations along with considerable guidance regarding safety considerations among the possible choices of locations, the choice of caliber and gun to take, and hints on tipping the PH (Professional Hunter), trackers, and staff. Taxidermy, obtaining the necessary licenses and permits, and customs clearance paperwork considerations are also covered. This book is written under his own name instead of under his pseudonym of Boston T. Party, and even contains many pictures of Royce taken while preparing to go and while on safari in Africa.\n\nAll his titles except for \"Good-Bye April 15th\" are available as paperback and Kindle versions. \"Good-Bye April 15th\" is the only Royce book out-of-print.\n\nDuring the June 2010 U.S. Senate confirmation hearing of Elena Kagan's nomination to the Supreme Court, Royce was quoted by Senator John Cornyn (R-TX) in his opening remarks: \"An email came across my inbox this morning that I thought of...'Liberty is not a cruise ship full of pampered passengers. Liberty is a man-of-war, and we are all crew.'...Of course we'll be talking about the different roles we each play on that crew'\".\n\n\"The Washington Post\" archived it as video\n\nOn Senator Cornyn's Facebook page, he accurately attributed the quote to Royce.\n\nThe quote is from chapter 19 of Royce's \"Boston's Gun Bible\".\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2291596", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291596", "title": "Reconstructionist Rabbinical College", "text": "Reconstructionist Rabbinical College\n\nThe Reconstructionist Rabbinical College (RRC) is a Jewish seminary in Wyncote, Pennsylvania. It is the only seminary affiliated with Reconstructionist Judaism. It is accredited by the Commission on Higher Education of the Middle States Association of Colleges and Schools. RRC has an enrollment of approximately 80 students in rabbinic and other graduate programs.\n\nA 2012 restructuring of the Reconstructionist movement's institutions left RRC as the primary organization of the movement, headed by Rabbi Deborah Waxman. This central organization changed its name to \"Reconstructing Judaism\" in January 2018. — the Reconstructionist Rabbinical College remains part of this organization.\n\nShe is believed to be the first female rabbi and first lesbian to lead a Jewish congregational union, and the first woman and first lesbian to lead a Jewish seminary.\n\nReconstructionist Judaism, a liberal movement that views Judaism as the “evolving religious civilization of the Jewish people” was established by Mordecai Kaplan in the 1930s as a school of thought. He had extensive influence on American Judaism, particularly on Conservative and Reform Judaism. However, his followers, including Ira Eisenstein (Kaplan’s son-in-law and leader of the Jewish Reconstructionist Foundation from 1959 onward) were frustrated by the lack of a continuing framework to promote their ideas in American Judaism. Eisenstein criticized dependence on “’Reconstructionist rabbis’ …borrowed from the ranks of Reform and Conservativism…A movement must produce its own leaders.” Kaplan himself was reluctant to establish a seminary which would mean creating a separate denomination alongside Reform, Conservative, and Orthodox Judaism. However, lay and rabbinic leaders of the small Federation of Reconstructionist Congregations and Havurot (FRCH, later re-named the Jewish Reconstructionist Federation) encouraged this step, and Kaplan eventually gave his blessing. At the FRCH conference in Montreal in June, 1967, the delegates overwhelmingly called for the establishment of a school for training rabbis.\n\nThe college opened in 1968 based in two brownstone buildings at 2308 North Broad Street in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, near Temple University.\n\nFrom its founding, RRC had two unique features in its curriculum. First, based on the Reconstructionist concept of an “evolving religious civilization” the five-year curriculum was centered on a historical period each year. These were biblical, rabbinic, medieval, modern (roughly to 1948), and contemporary periods. During each year, students would focus on the history, texts, and concepts of that period. With modifications, this developmental approach continues as a central feature of the RRC curriculum. RRC describes this goal:”…students enter into a dialogue with those in previous generations who addressed perennial human issues. In this way, RRC educates leaders who can articulate the voice of tradition as it speaks to today’s Jews.” \n\nThe second curricular innovation, based on Kaplan’s concept that American Jews live in two civilizations (Jewish and American), had all rabbinical students enroll in a secular doctoral program, initially in religion at Temple University (a nearby state-related institution), later including other potential majors and universities. The goal was that students be aware of general trends in the study of religion and of other religious traditions. This “dual program” proved difficult to complete, as most students were enrolled in two graduate programs while also working part-time. The initial doctoral requirement was eventually reduced to a secular master's degree.\n\nThe Reconstructionist Rabbinical College also recognized that future rabbis needed preparation in addition to purely academic courses and text studies. From the early years of RRC there were courses in practical rabbinics, covering such issues as pastoral counseling and life cycle events. In more recent years these have expanded to a multi-tiered program of practical rabbinics that includes coursework, supervised field internships, group supervision, and a requirement to shadow religious leaders in the field.\n\nIn 1981, Eisenstein, the founding president, retired, succeeded by Ira Silverman (1981–86). Under his leadership RRC moved from its urban setting in September 1982 to its current location, formerly the mansion of John Charles Martin, on Church Road in suburban Wyncote.\n\nBy the early 1980s, curriculum changes at RRC included more Hebrew, classic texts, and electives, reducing the time available for secular graduate studies. In addition, many more entering students were preparing for their second career and had already completed a secular master's degree or the equivalent. The “dual program” requirement for a secular graduate degree was dropped. However, a program of courses in religious studies including Christianity, Islam, and Eastern religions was instituted at RRC, some taught by adjunct faculty. At least two of these courses, including one in Christianity, are required for rabbinical students. A mekhinah (preparatory) year was added for many students who needed additional work in Hebrew and traditional Jewish sources and traditions.\n\nArthur Green, a student of mysticism and a founder of the havurah movement, became president in 1986 after serving as dean from 1984. Faculty and student enrollment significantly increased, and the Israel study program expanded. To move beyond a strictly academic focus, RRC began offering programs in spiritual growth in 1987, under the leadership of dean Jacob Staub. Staub commented that the early focus of RRC, as with other seminaries, was not on questions of meaning but “We were going for the original, objective, dispassionate description of phenomena.” But this expansion enabled the faculty to begin working with students as spiritual people and future leaders. The first experimental edition of a new Reconstructionist Sabbath eve prayer book, the first in the Kol Haneshamah series, by the Reconstructionist Press in 1989 included contributions from a number of RRC faculty members.\n\nDavid Teutsch became president in 1993. During his tenure the college strengthened its financial base and expanded its programs, publications, and facilities. The new series of Reconstructionist prayer books, Kol Haneshamah, was published under the leadership of Teutsch. Although RRC struggled to reach a $500,000 minimum endowment in its early years, by 1992 it reached $2.4 million, $14.8 million in 2004, and $19.7 million in 2006. Cantorial and master’s programs in Jewish studies were added. Three academic centers were established, The Center for Jewish Ethics (1994); Kolot: The Center for Jewish Women’s and Gender Studies (1996) and Hiddur: The Center for Aging and Judaism (2003).\n\nRRC had long been preparing students for a variety of rabbinic careers, including campus work, chaplaincy, and Jewish education as well as congregational leadership. Especially since the mid-1990s many students take at least one unit of Clinical Pastoral Education, a supervised program of training for clergy and other caregivers, often based in a hospital.\n\nDuring this time the college expanded its vision of modeling creation of a Jewish community for its future rabbis. From 1998, aided by a grant from the Nathan Cummings Foundation, a Jewish spiritual direction program founded by faculty member Jacob Staub grew. In 2007, on a completely voluntary basis, spiritual direction included 75% of the student body. The program includes individual meetings with a spiritual director, small groups, and in hevrutah (partners or dyads). Faculty member Barbara Breitman says, “Every spiritual tradition has within it the qualities of soul that people need to cultivate in their lives so that they can live according to a higher sense of purpose: generosity, patience, gratitude, truthfulness. Spiritual companioning needs to support people in cultivating those qualities.” \n\nThe college marked a milestone in 2002 when Rabbi Dan Ehrenkrantz became the first graduate of RRC to become president. The RRC curriculum continues to be based on its civilizational approach. In addition, the college focuses on developing community and integrating spiritual growth with academic studies.\n\nIn 2011 Sandra Lawson became the first openly gay African-American and the first African-American admitted to RRC.\n\nIn 2013 Rabbi Deborah Waxman was elected as the President of RRC. As the President, she is believed to be the first woman and first lesbian to lead a Jewish congregational union, and the first female rabbi and first lesbian to lead a Jewish seminary.\n\nIn 2015 RRC voted to accept rabbinical students in interfaith relationships, making Reconstructionist Judaism the first type of Judaism to officially allow rabbis in relationships with non-Jewish partners.\n\nRRC is a graduate institution. Rabbinical and other degree candidate students are required to have a bachelor's degree, and meet Hebrew and other requirements before enrolling.\n\nGraduates of the five- to six-year program are required to spend one of those years studying in Israel before graduating. Graduates receive the title of rabbi and a Master of Arts degree in Hebrew letters.\n\nIn conjunction with the rabbinic program, RRC offers joint masters programs in Jewish education and in nonprofit management with Gratz College, a coordinated masters in nonprofit leadership with the University of Pennsylvania, and certificate programs in Congregational and Family Systems and in Marital and Family therapy with the Council for Relationships.\n\nFrom its early years, RRC included students in decision making. Representatives of students, alumni, faculty, and administration meet in a College Council that advises on current issues. In addition, all these groups have representatives on the RRC Board of Governors. Students are members of the Reconstructionist Student Association (RSA.)\n\nThe college's main building is and is red-brick, slate-roofed, and an example of Georgian architecture. It includes classrooms, a lounge, faculty and administrative offices, the Einstein Reconstructionist Archives; a beit midrash (study and discussion hall, also used for religious services); a media center, and conference rooms. The adjacent Goldyne Savad Library Center opened in 1999. The library houses approximately 50,000 books on Judaica, primarily in English, Hebrew, and Yiddish.\n\nThe first graduate of RRC, Michael Luckens, was ordained in 1973. From its second year, 1969, RRC students included women. Sandy Eisenberg Sasso was ordained in 1974, the second woman rabbi in the United States, and the first female Reconstructionist rabbi. Since 1984, RRC has admitted and allowed the ordination of openly gay, bisexual, and lesbian rabbis, the first major rabbinic seminary to do so.\n\nAs of June 2018, RRC has graduated more than 420 rabbis.\n\nMost RRC graduates are members of the Reconstructionist Rabbinical Association. Approximately half the graduates serve congregations (Reconstructionist, those affiliated with other movements, or unaffiliated.) Others serve in academia, in Hillel and campus positions, as civilian and military chaplains, educators, in Jewish agencies, or are employed by the Reconstructionist movement. About one-fifth work in other areas, including as authors, editors, researchers, spiritual counselors, independent rabbis, or are retired. RRC graduates serve Jewish communities in the US, Canada, Australia, France, and Israel.\n\nThe College sponsored three program centers, of which The Center for Jewish Ethics is still in operation:\n\nThe Center for Jewish Ethics, founded in 1994, helps address the ethical challenges of contemporary life, through the training of future rabbis, hosting of conferences, and publication of ethics-related material.\n\nCreated in 1996, this center worked in both gender and women's studies. Kolot sponsored a variety of publications and seminars. It hosted a Web site for creative Jewish liturgy for holidays and life cycle events. In 2004, Kolot spun off a program for Jewish teenage girls, \"Rosh Hodesh: It's a Girl Thing\", to \"Moving Traditions\", a program that promotes a more inclusive and expansive view of gender. Ritualwell is another initiative of Kolot still in operation. The center closed in the mid-2000s.\n\nCreated in 2003, and closed in 2011, Hiddur's efforts focused on developing spiritual resources and scholarship around aging Jews.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2291604", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291604", "title": "Boulevard René-Lévesque", "text": "Boulevard René-Lévesque\n\nBoulevard René-Lévesque may refer to:\n"}
{"id": "2291610", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291610", "title": "Alejandro Silva (musician)", "text": "Alejandro Silva (musician)\n\nAlejandro Silva is a Chilean instrumental heavy metal guitarist, best known as the founder and lead guitarist of his band, Alejandro Silva Power Cuarteto.\n\nSilva started guitar when he was fourteen years old. Other musicians he has played with include Marty Friedman, Joe Satriani, Steve Vai, and Billy Sheehan, on the 2004 G3 tour held in Chile.\n\nHe is also a guitar teacher and a sound engineer.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2291613", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291613", "title": "Bristol, Illinois", "text": "Bristol, Illinois\n\nBristol, Illinois, is an unincorporated community in Bristol Township, Kendall County in the U.S. state of Illinois, just south of the Kane County border. Oswego lies to its east, Montgomery lies to its north, and Yorkville lies to its south and west.\n\nBristol originally was referred to as Bristol Station until 1957, when nearby Bristol merged with Yorkville to form a single unified city. Due to the unification, Bristol Station was able to drop the Station off its name and it is officially referred to as simply \"Bristol\". The community is still within proximity to Yorkville, whose borders are now no more than a mile from the center of town, and due to the growth of Oswego, Yorkville, and Sugar Grove, Bristol will soon either be annexed by one of the larger municipalities or become completely surrounded. Bristol has a small post office, bar, and train station located near the center of town. In June 2008, Raging Waves, Illinois' largest water park, was built just north of Bristol.\n\nBristol is served by the Yorkville Community Unit School District 115, including Yorkville High School.\n"}
{"id": "2291616", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291616", "title": "Yuan Xi", "text": "Yuan Xi\n\nYuan Xi (died 207), courtesy name Xianyi or Xianyong, was the second son of Yuan Shao, a warlord who controlled much of northern China during the late Eastern Han dynasty.\n\nYuan Shuji, a Tang dynasty chancellor, was a descendant of Yuan Xi.\n\nYuan Xi was described in the 14th-century historical novel \"Romance of the Three Kingdoms\" as \"intelligent but weak and indecisive\", in contrast to his older brother Yuan Tan, who was described as \"brave but impulsive and violent\". After the combined forces of Yuan Xi and his younger brother Yuan Shang was defeated in battle against Cao Cao in the follow-up battles after the Battle of Guandu, he fled to Liaodong with Yuan Shang and stayed with administrator Gongsun Kang, hoping to one day take over Gongsun's forces and have their revenge on Cao Cao. However, they were themselves betrayed and were killed in an ambush set up by Gongsun, who instead wanted to join Cao's forces. \n\nYuan Xi's wife, Lady Zhen, was taken as wife by Cao Cao's son, Cao Pi, while Yuan Xi still lived.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2291620", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291620", "title": "Picasso's Rose Period", "text": "Picasso's Rose Period\n\nPicasso's Rose Period represents an important epoch in the life and work of the Spanish artist Pablo Picasso and had a great impact on the developments of modern art. It began in 1904 at a time when Picasso settled in Montmartre at the Bateau-Lavoir among bohemian poets and writers. Following Picasso's Blue Period, depicting themes of poverty, loneliness, and despair in somber tones of daunting blues, Picasso's Rose Period represents more pleasant themes of clowns, harlequins, and carnival performers, depicted in cheerful vivid hues of red, orange, pink and earth tones.\n\nBased largely on intuition rather than direct observation, Picasso's Rose Period marks the beginning of the artists' stylistic experiments with primitivism; influenced by pre-Roman Iberian sculpture, Oceanic and African art. This led to Picasso's African Period in 1907, culminating in the Proto-Cubist \"Les Demoiselles d'Avignon\", regarded as a masterpiece.\n\nThe Rose Period lasted from 1904 to 1906. Picasso was happy in his relationship with Fernande Olivier whom he had met in 1904 and this has been suggested as one of the possible reasons he changed his style of painting. Harlequins, circus performers and clowns appear frequently in the Rose Period and populated Picasso's paintings at various stages throughout the rest of his long career. The harlequin, a comedic character usually depicted in checkered patterned clothing, became a personal symbol for Picasso.\n\nThe Rose Period has been considered French influenced, while the Blue Period more Spanish influenced, although both styles emerged while Picasso was living in Paris. Picasso's Blue Period began in late 1901, following the death of his friend Carlos Casagemas and the onset of a bout of major depression. It lasted until 1904, when Picasso's psychological condition improved. The Rose Period is named after Picasso's heavy use of pink tones in his works from this period, from the French word for pink, which is \"rose\".\n\nPicasso's third highest selling painting, \"Garçon à la pipe (Boy with a pipe)\" was painted during the Rose Period. Other significant Rose Period works include: \"Woman in a Chemise (Madeleine)\" (1904–05), \"The Actor\" (1904–1905), \"Lady with a Fan\" (1905), \"Two Youths\" (1905), \"Harlequin Family\" (1905), \"Harlequin's Family With an Ape\" (1905), \"La famille de saltimbanques\" (1905), \"Boy with a Dog\" (1905), \"Nude Boy\" (1906), \"Boy Leading a Horse\" (1905-06), and \"The Girl with a Goat\" (1906).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2291622", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291622", "title": "KDE Dot News", "text": "KDE Dot News\n\nKDE.News (KDE Dot News) is the official news website for the KDE free software community. It includes KDE development and user news, discussions, and feature articles. Most stories are summaries of things published elsewhere; some are interviews with KDE developers. The site also includes links to recent software releases and developers' weblog postings.\n\nThe site formerly used the Squishdot content management system, but migrated to Drupal in January 2009.\n"}
{"id": "2291627", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291627", "title": "Densha Otoko", "text": "Densha Otoko\n\nThe event, and the man's subsequent dates with the woman, who became known as , were chronicled on the Japanese mega-BBS 2channel. This led to the compilation of the relevant threads in a book, followed by several manga versions, a movie, a theatrical play later released as a DVD, and finally a TV series.\n\n\"Densha Otoko\" is a popular example of the \"nice guy\" class of Japanese geeks who wish to lead normal lives, but are too shy to find a girlfriend, or speak openly only online. The television series uses a large number of computer-bound extras.\n\nOn March 14, 2004, at 9:55 p.m., an anonymous user posted in a 2channel thread for single men to talk about their woes. According to his account, he had been sitting next to a young woman on the train when a drunken man entered the car and began to badger a particular woman. The poster took the risk of telling the man to stop bothering the passengers, who were all women. The two struggled for a short time while the other passengers used this distraction to summon the conductor, who took control of the situation.\n\nNever having done such a thing in his life, the poster was amazed to find the woman thanking him deeply for saving her from harassment. The young woman requested his address, telling him that she wanted to express her appreciation for his act, before they parted ways. The poster, upon returning home, shared his experience with other posters in the thread and was eventually nicknamed \"Densha Otoko\" (Train Man).\n\nA few days later, Train Man received a package from the woman: an expensive set of cups and saucers made by Hermès, a French luxury goods company. Flabbergasted, the man turned to the 2channelers for advice; he was soon convinced that the tea set was too expensive to be a mere thank-you gift. Following the advice and suggestions of the other posters, Train Man eventually contacted the woman.\n\nThe man who wrote admitted things about himself, such as the fact that his number of years without girlfriends equaled his age, that he was an Akihabara nerd and an otaku, and that he had never been on a date. Because of this last fact, he consistently posted updates on his situation, asking for advice on everything from restaurant choices to what clothing to wear. After an enjoyable first date, they began meeting regularly. Following the 2channelers' collective advice, he got a haircut, updated his wardrobe, and began to emerge from his shell. After several dates, his demeanor had changed for the better and this culminated a few months later in his confessing his love for her. She reciprocated, and when the 2channelers were informed, there was a mass celebration; posts began flowing in congratulating the new couple, and extravagant Shift JIS art pictures were posted.\n\nTrain Man's posts continued for a while longer, but on May 17, there were posts about the couple being on the verge of having sex, and several forum members made inappropriate comments on the subject. Later that night, Train Man left the boards for good.\n\nWhile many attest to the truth of the story—including the producers of the television series, who supposedly contacted the real Train Man—it has not been proven that the story was completely authentic. The true identity of \"Train Man\" is never revealed and the book is based on an edited collection of posts on the 2channel bulletin board. The original conversation lasted fifty-seven days and contained 29,862 posts, whereas the book contains 1,919 posts, as collected on a fan website. A list of inconsistencies in the story has been collated, including Train Man being too young to have a university degree and be in the workforce for three years.\n\nThe initial setting of the film is in Akihabara, Tokyo.\n\nMark Schilling of \"The Japan Times\" comments that \"since Fuji TV intends \"Densha Otoko\" for prime-time broadcast, Hermess (Nakatani) can only suggest a big sisterly friendliness and affection, meaning that the sexual chemistry between her and Train Man (Yamada) is zero\". Pop Culture Shock's Erin Finnegan reported, \"when asked if the original novel would ever be imported, manga industry reps at New York Comic Con lamented that 2chan's version of l33t is nearly impossible to translate.\" The fansite compiling the posts which became the book has been translated into other languages by fans of the story, including into English in 2006. President and CEO for Viz Pictures, Seiji Horibuchi, comments that the film \"Train Man: Densha Otoko\" \"will make people think fondly about their own first experiences with love and the thrill and rush it caused. Perhaps it will even inspire a few to take a chance on someone they like!\" \n\n\"Densha Otoko\" originated from a fifty-seven-day online conversation, from March 14 to May 16, that included a total of 29,862 posts on 2channel was edited into a six-chapter story, each called \"Missions\" of 1,919 posts and made available on the Matome site. According to by Kenji Andō, only 6.4% of the whole conversation thread was not published in the Densha Otoko book.\n\nThe author of the book used the name . This name is a pun on the Japanese term \"Naka no hitori\", referring to all the people who are part of message boards on the Internet. There isn't a specific person that is credited as the author; rather, it is close to a shared pseudonym.\n\nShinchosha released the novel on October 22, 2004. Del Rey Books released the novel, renamed as \"Train Man\", on April 24, 2007.\n\nThe drama's 11 episodes were aired on Fuji TV from July 7 to September 22, 2005 (with a special episode on October 6, 2005). A two-hour-long TV special, \"Densha Otoko Deluxe\", aired on September 23, 2006. Pony Canyon released the series on a DVD box set on December 22, 2005. It also aired in Taiwan's Videoland Japan from January 24, 2006 (with a special episode on December 28, 2006), and in Hong Kong's TVB Jade from April 15, 2006 (with a special episode on January 27, 2007).\n\n\"Densha Otoko\" film was directed by Shosuke Murakami. It premiered in Japanese Cinemas by Toho on March 26, 2005. The movie was screened in North American cinemas by Viz Pictures on September 22, 2006. Viz Media released the DVD of \"Train Man: Densha Otoko\" on February 6, 2007. The ending theme is by Orange Range. The movie stars Takayuki Yamada as Train Man/Densha Otoko and Miki Nakatani as Hermes.\n\nThere are four manga adaptations of \"Densha Otoko\":\n\n\"Densha Otoko\" novel sold 260,000 copies in just three weeks and 500,000 copies in two months. Following its popularity, \"Chikan Otoko\" was produced, the story of a man who is accused of being a groper on public transport, and \"Napoleon Dynamite\" was retitled \"Basu Otoko\" (\"Bus Man\") for its Japanese release. \"The Japan Times\"' Janet Ashby commented that the book felt like an \"otaku wish-fulfillment fantasy: Someday I will magically meet Miss Right, rescue her like a knight on a white horse, be transformed into Mr. Right, and we will live happily ever after. The reaction of Miss Hermes when Trainman belatedly shows her the log of his postings about their private affairs was particularly unbelievable to me. Far from being hurt or angry, she is impressed by what good friends he has!\"\n\nMania.com's Matthew Alexander commends \"Densha Otoko: The Story of a Train Man Who Fell in Love With A Girl\" for being realistic, saying, \"right after [Train's] session with a hair stylist, his hair is standing up in the right spots and looks good. Then, just like in real life, a couple of days afterwards his hair is back to looking like a shorter version of his hairstyle before it got cut. A very small part of the story I know, but I really appreciated the effort at displaying realism.\" Coolstreak Comics' Leroy Douresseaux comments on \"Densha Otoko: The Story of a Train Man Who Fell in Love With A Girl\", saying, \"Watanabe understands the visual metaphor of the comics medium, which allows him to deliver his story with a force that captures the quiet awkwardness of two shy people\". IGN's A.E. Sparrow comments on the artwork of \"Densha Otoko: Train Man\" saying, \"Hidenori Hara brings an old school style to his illustration, and there are moments where the complex panel layouts (particularly when several online people are offering advice at once) recall some of Will Eisner's best work.\" A later review by Sparrow comments that Hidenori Hara's \"work seems the most cartoonish of the bunch, with some of the characters looking almost like afterthoughts, but it's that scribbling style that really sets this version of the story apart.\" He also comments on Hermess looking \"like a slightly more pixie-ish version of Lisa Hayes from Robotech\". Anime News Network's Carlo Santos' review of \"Train Man: A Shōjo Manga\" commends it for its \"unique character viewpoint and a sweet, lighthearted mood\". However, he criticises it for \"skimping on plot and character development; sometimes awkward with Internet humor.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2291631", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291631", "title": "Huo Guang", "text": "Huo Guang\n\nHuo Guang (; died 68 BC), courtesy name Zimeng (子孟), was a Western Han politician who was a rare example in Chinese history of a powerful official who deposed an emperor for the good of the state rather than to usurp the throne. He was the half-brother of renowned Han general Huo Qubing, and one of the most powerful consort kin in Chinese imperial history.\n\nHuo's early career in Han government was not well documented, but it is known that as of 88 BC—near the end of Emperor Wu's reign, he was already a high-ranked official with dual titles of \"Fengche Duwei\" (奉車都尉) and \"Guanglu Dafu\" (光祿大夫). When Emperor Wu, near the end of his life, chose his youngest son Liu Fuling (later Emperor Zhao) as heir, he commissioned Huo, ethnically-Xiongnu official Jin Midi, and imperial guard commander Shangguan Jie (上官桀) as coregents, but with Huo effectively in command of the government, with the titles of \"dasima\" (大司馬) and \"dajiangjun\" (大將軍). When Emperor Wu died in 87 BC, Emperor Zhao, then eight years old, was left in the tutelage of Huo, Jin, and Shangguan. Emperor Wu's will created the three of them as marquesses, but all three declined.\n\nAs Emperor Zhao was the youngest son of Emperor Wu, this created conflict and ill will with his older brothers, and in his reign there were multiple conspiracies. In 86 BC, a conspiracy involving Liu Dan (劉旦), Prince of Yan, and an elder son of Emperor Wu, was discovered, but the prince was not punished, presumably under Huo's decision, even though the other conspirators were executed.\n\nIn 85 BC, Huo was created the Marquess of Bolu (博陆侯). In the same year, Jin, a moderating influence in the co-regency, died. After Jin's death, Shangguan became increasingly jealous of Huo's powers, even though the two had been great friends, and Huo had given his daughter in marriage to Shangguan's son Shangguan An (上官安). In 84 BC, as a ploy to further strengthen his powers, Shangguan Jie gave his granddaughter (also Huo's granddaughter), then age five, in marriage to the emperor, then age 11, and she was made empress in 83 BC.\n\nIn 80 BC, the growing conflict between Huo and Shangguan came to a head. Shangguan formed a conspiracy with Liu Dan, the Prince of Yan, the Princess Eyi (鄂邑公主) (who, as the emperor's sister, had served as his guardian), and another important official Sang Hongyang (桑弘羊) to make false allegations of treason against Huo. However, Emperor Zhao, who trusted Huo, did not act on the allegations. The conspirators then planned a coup d'etat, but were discovered. Most of the conspirators, including Shangguan, were executed, and Liu Dan and the Princess of Eyi were forced to commit suicide.\n\nIn 74 BC, Emperor Zhao died at age 21 without issue. Even though Emperor Zhao had living older brothers, Huo considered them incompetent and unfit for the throne. After some investigation, he settled on making Liu He, Emperor Zhao's nephew and the Prince of Changyi the new emperor. Once the Prince of Changyi was installed as the emperor, however, he began to spend incessantly and otherwise act inappropriately during the period of mourning for Emperor Zhao.\n\nIn response, Huo decided to depose the new emperor, an unprecedented action in Chinese history. Under an edict issued by Empress Dowager Shangguan (Huo's granddaughter), Prince He was deposed after just 28 days as emperor and exiled to his old principality of Changyi, but without a princely title.\n\nThere was no imperial heir who met Huo's standard of a diligent and skilled emperor. At the suggestion of another senior official Bing Ji (丙吉), Huo made a great-grandson of Emperor Wu, Liu Bingyi (later Liu Xun 劉詢) emperor. (Liu Bingyi's grandfather Liu Ju had been Emperor Wu's crown prince by Empress Wei but subsequently fell out of favour and was killed, with his issue being removed from the imperial household). \n\nIn 73 BC, Huo offered to return all authority to Emperor Xuan, but the emperor declined and reaffirmed that all important matters were to be presented to Huo before Huo would present them to the emperor. The emperor also made Huo's son Huo Yu (霍禹) and his grandnephews Huo Yun (霍雲) and Huo Shan (霍山) (Huo Qubing's grandsons) key officials in his administration. Huo Guang's sons-in-law Fan Mingyou (范明友) and Deng Guanghan (鄧廣漢) were made high military commanders. During the next few years, Huo and the emperor effectively shared imperial powers.\n\nIn 71 BC, Huo Guang's wife, Xian (顯), in order to make her daughter Huo Chengjun (霍成君) empress, poisoned Emperor Xuan's wife Empress Xu Pingjun by bribing her doctor. In 70 BC, Huo Chengjun was created empress.\n\nDespite Emperor Xuan's outward respect towards Huo Guang, it was recorded that he feared Huo, and regarded him as \"a thorn in (his) back\" (芒刺在背, \"mang ci zai bei\"). This, combined with Huo Guang's unwillingness to rein in his clansmen, would prove disastrous to the Huo clan.\n\nIn 68 BC, Huo Guang became ill and died. Emperor Xuan and Empress Dowager Shangguan made the nearly-unprecedented act of personally attending Huo's wake and built an impressive mausoleum for Huo. After Huo's death, his sons, sons-in-law, and grandnephews remained in important posts and were made marquesses. His wife, after a period of mourning, formed a passionate relationship with Huo Guang's slave master, Feng Zidu, himself a former lover of Huo Guang. The Huo family lived luxurious lives similar to the imperial household.\n\nEmperor Xuan, unhappy about the Huos' perceived arrogance, began to gradually strip their actual powers while letting them keep their formal titles. In 67 BC, Emperor Xuan made his son Liu Shi (劉奭, later Emperor Yuan), by the deceased Empress Xu, crown prince, an act that greatly angered Lady Xian, who instructed her daughter to murder the crown prince. Allegedly, Empress Huo did make multiple attempts to do so, but failed each time. Around this time, the emperor also heard rumours that the Huos had murdered Empress Xu, which led him to further strip the Huos of actual power.\n\nIn 66 BC, Lady Xian revealed to her son and grandnephews that she had, indeed, murdered Empress Xu. In fear of what the emperor might do if he had actual proof, Lady Xian, her son, her grandnephews, and her sons-in-law formed a conspiracy to depose the emperor. The conspiracy was discovered, and the entire Huo clan was executed by Emperor Xuan. This act later drew heavy criticism from historians, such as Sima Guang in his Zizhi Tongjian, for its ungratefulness to Huo Guang. Empress Huo was deposed. Twelve years later she was exiled and, in response, she committed suicide.\n\nDespite the destruction of the Huo clan, Emperor Xuan continued to honour Huo Guang posthumously. In 51 BC, when he painted the portrait of 11 great statesmen of his administration in the great hall of his palace, Huo, alone among the 11, was referred to by title and family name only, which was considered an even greater honour than the honour given to the other ten.\n\nHuo was treated somewhat paradoxically by posterity. On one hand, he was greatly admired for his skilful administration of the empire and his selflessness in putting himself in great danger in deposing an unfit emperor. On the other hand, he was also criticized for his dictatorial governing style, alleged nepotism and failure to rein in the behaviour of his clansmen, traits that some historians claim eventually led to his clan's destruction after his death.\n\nMany later conspirators in Chinese history would often claim that they were acting in the empire's best interest, like Huo, even though few actually did. Conversely, when emperors wanted to accuse (and execute) officials of treason, they often euphemistically refer to them as \"wanting to act like Huo Guang.\" Effectively, Huo set a standard of decisiveness and strength that was rarely matched and even more rarely used for the benefit of the state.\n"}
{"id": "2291636", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291636", "title": "Ari Up", "text": "Ari Up\n\nAriane Daniela Forster (17 January 1962 – 20 October 2010), known by her stage name Ari Up, was a German vocalist best known as a member of the English post-punk band The Slits.\n\nAri was born in Munich, Germany. Both her parents were involved in the music industry: Her father, Frank Forster, was a German schlager singer who had some success in the 50s and 60s while her mother Nora was a friend of Jimi Hendrix and dated Chris Spedding for three years. Ari's maternal grandfather was the wealthy German newspaper proprietor Franz Karl Maier, owner of Der Tagesspiegel. Her godfathers were Austrian singer/composer Udo Jürgens and Jon Anderson, the singer of the group Yes.\n\nNora later married the Sex Pistols' lead singer, John Lydon, in 1979. Their home was known to be something of a punk domain, where Nora would take in poor musicians. The constant presence of punk music led to Ari experimenting with it herself, learning to play the guitar from The Clash's Joe Strummer.\n\nIn 1976, at the age of 14, Ari formed The Slits with drummer Palmolive. Within a short time, guitarist Viv Albertine joined the group and found herself deeply impressed by the young singer. \"English was her second language,\" Albertine noted in an interview. \"It was not easy for her and she had to fight to be taken seriously.\" She succeeded: \"Ari was the most dynamic woman I have ever known,\" said Albertine. \"The way she carried herself was a revolution.\"\n\nBy the late 1970s, The Slits were touring as the opening act for The Clash. Ari Up's love of reggae led The Slits into a \"jungly\" dub style. She was the most flamboyant member of the group, becoming known for her wild hair and odd stage outfits. She can be seen briefly in The Clash film \"Rude Boy\", associating with the band backstage. Her 1977 performances with The Slits are featured in \"The Punk Rock Movie\", a documentary release of various punk group club performances, principally at The Roxy.\n\nAfter The Slits disbanded in 1981, Ari moved with her husband and twin sons to jungle regions of Indonesia and Belize and lived among indigenous people in those areas. Later, they moved to Jamaica, eventually settling in Kingston. She continued to make music, first with the New Age Steppers, then as a solo artist, using the stage names Baby Ari, Madussa, and Ari Up. In 2000, Lydon and Nora became legal guardians of Ari's twin boys; as Lydon explained \"[Ari] let them run free. They couldn’t read, write or form proper sentences. One day Ari said she couldn’t cope with them any more. I suggested they came to us because I wasn’t having them abandoned. They gave us hell, but I loved having kids around.\" Ari's first full-length solo album, \"Dread More Dan Dead\", was released in 2005.\nAri Up appeared on Lee \"Scratch\" Perry's \"Repentance\" (2008), and performed a duet on a cover version of Mike Hugg's song \"Mister, You're a Better Man Than I\" on Mark Stewart's, \"Edit\" (2008).\n\nIn 2008, Ari was diagnosed with breast cancer. However she refused the physician-recommended chemotherapy. Lydon later commented, \"who refuses chemo because they don’t want their Rasta locks cut off? Ariane was just…not sensible. She thought she could cure herself with witch doctors. We spent hundreds of thousands trying to save her, but it was too late.\" Despite the diagnosis, she performed in July, 2009, with Perry and Austrian dub band Dubblestandart in Brooklyn, New York, just prior to the Central Park SummerStage festival. One of Ari's last recordings took place in May 2010, in New York with Lee Scratch Perry. The sessions were recorded by the Subatomic Sound System and released in August 2010 on 7\" vinyl, titled \"Hello, Hell is Very Low\" b/w \"Bed Athletes.\" The Slits' final work, the video for the song \"Lazy Slam\" from \"Trapped Animal\", was released posthumously in accordance with Ari's wishes.\n\nOn 20 October 2010, Ari died in Los Angeles, aged 48. Her death was initially announced on Lydon's homepage. At this time, Lydon and Nora also became guardians of Ari's third child, Wilton.\n\nA tribute Punky Reggae Birthday Party was held in at the Music Hall of Williamsburg by Dunia Best, Aram Sinnreich and Vivien Goldman on Brooklyn on 16 January 2011. Neneh Cherry, Tessa Pollitt, Hollie Cook and other former members of The Slits performed, along with members of the True Warriors, New Age Steppers, and other friends and associates.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2291643", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291643", "title": "Montreal Central Station", "text": "Montreal Central Station\n\nMontreal Central Station () is the major inter-city rail station and a major commuter rail hub in Montreal, Quebec, Canada. Nearly 11 million rail passengers use the station every year making it the second-busiest train station in Canada.\n\nThe main concourse occupies almost the entire block bounded by De la Gauchetière Street, Robert-Bourassa Boulevard, René Lévesque Boulevard and Mansfield Street in Downtown Montreal. Its street address and principal vehicular access are on de La Gauchetière; pedestrian access is assured by numerous links through neighboring buildings. The station is adorned with art deco bas-relief friezes on its interior and exterior. The station building and associated properties are owned by Cominar REIT as of January 2012. Homburg Invest Inc. (renamed Canmarc in September 2011) was the previous owner, since November 30, 2007. Prior to that, from the station's inception in 1943, it had been owned by Canadian National Railway (CN).\n\nCentral Station is at the centre of the Quebec City–Windsor Corridor, the busiest inter-city rail service area in the nation (marketed as the \"Corridor\"), which extends from Windsor and Sarnia in the west, through Toronto, Ottawa, and Montreal, to Quebec City in the east. Inter-city trains at Central Station are operated by Via Rail and Amtrak, while commuter rail services are operated by Réseau de transport métropolitain (RTM). The station is also connected to the Montreal Metro subway system.\n\nCentral Station is the second-busiest Via Rail station in Canada, after Toronto Union Station. Its Via station code is MTRL; its Amtrak code is MTR, and its IATA code is YMY.\n\nCentral Station opened in 1943, after several years of construction. It stands on the site originally occupied by the terminus of the Canadian Northern Railway's Tunnel Terminal, which had originally opened in 1918.\n\nFollowing the bankruptcy of the Grand Trunk Railway, the Government of the Dominion of Canada decided to consolidate the Grand Trunk Railway with the various Canadian Government Railways to form the Canadian National Railway (CNR). The merger left CNR with a somewhat viable patchwork of different networks. \n\nFor much of the first half of the 20th century, CNR found itself in a highly uncomfortable position in Montreal due to the scattering of its terminals. Bonaventure Station was used for routes heading west and south east, the Tunnel Terminal served routes heading north, Moreau Street Station served eastbound routes, and the McGill Street Terminal served the interurban streetcars of the Montreal and Southern Counties Railway. Making matters worse, the various stations were not connected to one another except via long detours. To transfer a train from Bonaventure Station to Tunnel Station it would need to travel to Hawkesbury, Ontario, and to travel from Tunnel Station to Moreau Station it needed to take a detour via Rawdon in the Laurentians.\n\nThe solution chosen was to take advantage of the Mount Royal Tunnel to bring trains from the north and east through the tunnel to a large electrified central station. Trains from the south and west gained access by a new elevated viaduct. Interurban electric trains, however, remained at McGill Street Terminal until the service was abandoned in 1956.\n\nThe new station plan allowed for the development of air-rights, similar to New York City's two major stations, Grand Central Terminal and Penn Station. The new Central Station would be situated in the block bounded by De la Gauchetière Street to the south, Mansfield Street to the west, Cathcart Street to the north and University Street to the east.\n\nCentral Station was designed by John Schofield, architect-in-chief of CNR. Construction started in 1926, but was halted in 1930 as a result of the Great Depression. Construction resumed in 1939, the economy having improved. The new station finally opened on July 14, 1943, as the first of a series of large-scale urban redevelopment projects undertaken by CNR and the federal government in Downtown Montreal. But the Central Station that came out was a more modest structure with 20 tracks, 16 of which had platforms.\n\nThe opening of a 'central' station was part of a consolidation project undertaken by CNR since 1929 with the enactment of the \"Canadian National Montreal Terminals Act, 1929\" by Parliament; this saw the closure of former temporary stations operated by CNR predecessors Grand Trunk (Bonaventure Station) and Canadian Northern.\n\nCentral Station was an important passenger station for CN trains from 1943 until the creation of Via Rail in 1978. Following Via's full absorption of CP's passenger trains in 1978, intercity rail traffic from Windsor Station was slowly redirected to Central Station. The final Via trains switched from Windsor Station to Central Station were the Quebec City trains that operated by way of Trois-Rivières (April 29, 1984). Amtrak's \"Adirondack\" was switched to Central Station on January 12, 1986.\n\nAt Central Station's opening, tracks (7, 8, 9, 10, 11 and 12) of the Tunnel Station were used only by trains heading north through the tunnel, and they did not continue south of the station. These tracks were finally connected to the south when the old Tunnel Station was demolished as well as the warehouse located south of De la Gauchetière Street and east of Inspector Street (now Mansfield Street). This also allowed for the construction of the new headquarters of CNR as well as Place Bonaventure. This division is once again in effect following the rebuilding of the Deux-Montagnes line. These tracks are now part of the Two Mountains Subdivision, extending south for a distance of about 1600 metres. Under catenary wires, they serve as parking for trains on the Deux-Montagnes line during the day. Since the reopening of the Mont-Saint-Hilaire line, they are also used to park trains from this line.\n\nTracks 6–16 lead to the tunnel to the north, and lanes 4, 5 and tracks 16 to 23 are in a cul-de-sac to the north (track 16 is provided with a switch just north of the stairs). Tracks 13 to 15 are never used in the northbound direction because of the lack of catenary wires.\n\nOne platform (23) is inaccessible to the main concourse, and serves instead as parking for the company cars belonging to upper-level management.\n\nUpon entry into service of the UAC TurboTrain, three tracks (4, 5, 6) were arranged on the west side of the station for a servicing and maintenance facility located there. The workshop, called \"Turbo Bay\", is still used to maintain light commuter trains as well as the private cars belonging to CN's senior management who use the station. The tracks in the workshop are protected by derails.\n\nAround 1980, the catenary wire was removed from tracks 13, 14, 15 and 16, to allow dome train cars to enter the station.\n\nIn 1994–1995, the complete reconstruction of the commuter rail Deux-Montagnes Line resulted in tracks 7–12 being re-electrified at 25 kV AC. The original 3000-volt DC catenary was removed from the other tracks.\n\nThe platforms of tracks 7 and 8 are now inaccessible from the station, the entrance having been sealed to allow for the development of commercial space, and the tracks now used as parking for trains waiting to be repaired in the \"Turbo Bay\".\n\nOn September 3, 1984, a pipe bomb exploded inside a Central Station locker, killing 3 people and injuring 30 more. The bomb was alleged to have been set by retired American armed forces officer Thomas Bernard Brigham, who claimed to have been protesting Pope John Paul II's visit to Canada.\n\nWith the design being overseen by CNR's architect-in-chief John Schofield (1883–1971), the architecture of Central Station is modern; it is a mixture of Art Deco and the international style. Its large concourse, designed by John Campbell Merrett (1909–1998), is illuminated by large windows. Originally, the concourse was cluttered by various ticket counters and kiosks, but, over time, they were pushed to the extremities of the room, which left much more space for the passing crowds.\n\nThe 14 underground tracks are accessible by seven stairwells, five of which are equipped with escalators.\n\nThe east and west interior walls of the station feature two large bas-reliefs depicting Canadian life, arts and industry, designed by Charles Comfort and executed by Sebastiano Aiello. Included in the bas relief are a few of the lyrics of O Canada, which still was not the national anthem when the station was built. The lyrics are in French on the east side of the station and in English on the west side. Canadian artist Fritz Brandtner created the three large chiselled stone reliefs depicting Mercury, Apollo and Poseidon on the station's north exterior wall. The representations of Mercury and Poseidon measure approximately 2,5m by 4,5m. Apollo is larger but visual access is very limited. These were obscured by the 1958 construction of the neighbouring Queen Elizabeth Hotel. It is disputed whether Comfort or Brandtner created the thematic stone medallions depicting water, land and air transportation on the station's west, south and east exterior walls. Stylistically, however, the bas-relief medallions bear a strong resemblance to the frieze by Charles Comfort created for the Toronto Stock Exchange building in 1937.\n\nBecause of its underground urban location, the railway station quickly imposed operational constraints on CNR.\n\nTo avoid smoke in the vicinity of the station, the first trains were powered by electric locomotives. The change of traction took place at Bridge Street, south for trains serving the south-east, at Turcot Yards, west for trains serving the west, Val Royal, north for trains running northwest of the junction and north for trains serving the northeast. A fleet of 14 electric locomotives were used for this work.\n\nAn elaborate system of signals allowed staff to track the status of the various trains. At the station, as soon as the train was ready to receive passengers, the conductor inserted the key switch in a special switch indicating to staff at the station (ticket checkers) that the train was ready. The movement director at Wellington was also advised via a series of lights that the train was receiving passengers, which then allowed him to establish the route out of the station.\n\nAccess to the platforms is controlled by ticket examiners who verify each passenger's ticket. This configuration limits access uniquely to passengers. At the time of departure, after all passengers had descended, the ticket checker would press a button that notified the conductor, through a green light on the platform, that the train could leave. The movement director in Wellington was also advised of the departure by a special light. The final decision of departure was the responsibility of the conductor, until conductors were replaced by a second engineer in the 1990s.\n\nOver the years, the empty space around Central Station has gradually developed to the point where the station building itself is hardly visible from the outside.\n\nIn 1948, ICAO built its headquarters over the northeast portion of the station along University Street south of Dorchester Street. Then in 1959, the Queen Elizabeth Hotel was built on the western portion, on the corner of Dorchester and Mansfield, which was the first of many major redevelopments in the area.\n\nIn 1960, the former Tunnel Station building was demolished to allow for the construction of the new head-office of CNR, and soon after, a large parking garage was built over the southern part of the station. The Terminal Tower of 1966 completely hid the station from Dorchester Boulevard.\n\nBelmont Street, east of the station was extended over the station itself to Mansfield Street. On Belmont is the only visible portion of the exterior of the station, the rest having been attached to the various buildings built over the years.\n\nThe north side of Dorchester (now René Lévesque Boulevard) then saw the construction of the complex of Place Ville-Marie, which now includes four skyscrapers whose highest was 45 floors and an underground shopping mall, which was the beginning of the Underground City.\n\nIn the mid 1960s, Place Bonaventure was built over the tracks, south of de La Gauchetière Street.\n\nIn 1966, Central Station and Place Bonaventure were connected underground by the new Bonaventure Metro station, named in honour of the demolished Bonaventure railway station.\n\nAll of these buildings underwent major renovations over the next 30 years.\n\nCentral Station is located adjacent to CN Headquarters and is an important link in the underground city, with tunnels to Place Ville-Marie, Place Bonaventure, the Queen Elizabeth Hotel, 1000 de La Gauchetière and the Bonaventure Metro station.\n\nIt also contains two parking facilities, one of which is a multi-level facility that is located above the station.\n\nCentral Station has gradually grown to include \"Les Halles de la Gare\", a shopping and restaurant complex. Real estate pressures have meant that the shopping area would be expanded several times.\n\nWhile the old ICAO building was undergoing renovations in 1981, (after the relocation of ICAO to Sherbrooke Street), a railway-themed shopping area expanded on the north side of the station. This section was completely destroyed in 1995 during the restoration of the Deux-Montagnes Line, and was replaced by the present Les Halles de la Gare complex.\n\nIn May 2012, U.S. Senators Charles Schumer, Kirsten Gillibrand, Patrick Leahy, and Bernie Sanders sent a letter to President Barack Obama urging him to fastrack the approval of a U.S. Customs preclearance facility at the station that will benefit U.S. bound travelers on the \"Adirondack\" from having to stop at the railway station located in Rouses Point, New York for immigration and customs checks whenever they cross the Canada–US border. Under the arrangement, the stop in Saint-Lambert would be removed. The agreement will also allow another Amtrak line, the \"Vermonter\", to be extended from its current terminus at St. Albans to Montreal, though this agreement must first be approved by United States Congress and the Parliament of Canada. This would enable direct travel by train from Montreal to Washington, D.C.'s Union Station via Massachusetts and New York City, as well as the potential development of direct service to Boston.\n\nOn March 16, 2015, the United States and Canada signed an agreement that would allow for such a facility. Enabling legislation was enacted by the United States on December 16, 2016 as the Promoting Travel, Commerce, and National Security Act of 2016.\n\nFrequent \"Corridor\" services offer multiple-daily departures on the following routes:\n\nIn addition, the following long distance/rural services are operated several times weekly:\n\n\n\n\nSee Bonaventure Metro for connecting bus routes.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2291645", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291645", "title": "1968 Polish political crisis", "text": "1968 Polish political crisis\n\nThe Polish 1968 political crisis, also known in Poland as March 1968, Students' March, or March events (), was a series of major student, intellectual and other protests against the communist regime of the Polish People's Republic. The crisis resulted in the suppression of student strikes by security forces in all major academic centres across the country and the subsequent repression of the Polish dissident movement. It was also accompanied by mass emigration following an antisemitic (branded \"anti-Zionist\") campaign waged by the minister of internal affairs, General Mieczysław Moczar, with the approval of First Secretary Władysław Gomułka of the Polish United Workers' Party (PZPR). The protests overlapped with the events of the Prague Spring in neighboring Czechoslovakia – raising new hopes of democratic reforms among the intelligentsia. The Czechoslovak unrest culminated in the Warsaw Pact invasion of Czechoslovakia on 20 August 1968.\n\nThe anti-Jewish campaign had already begun in 1967. The policy was carried out in conjunction with the Soviet withdrawal of all diplomatic relations with Israel after the Six-Day War, but also involved a power struggle within the Polish communist party itself. The subsequent purges within the ruling party, led by Mieczysław Moczar and his faction, failed to topple Gomułka's government, but resulted in an exile from Poland of thousands of individuals of Jewish ancestry, including professionals, party officials and secret police functionaries. In carefully staged public displays of support, factory workers across Poland were assembled to publicly denounce Zionism. At least 13,000 Poles of Jewish origin emigrated in 1968–72 as a result of being fired from their positions and various other forms of harassment.\n\nPolitical turmoil of the late 1960s was exemplified in the West by the increasingly violent protests against the Vietnam War and included numerous instances of protest and revolt, especially among students, that reverberated across Europe in 1968. The movement was reflected in the Eastern Bloc by the events of the Prague Spring, which began on 5 January 1968. A wave of protests in Czechoslovakia marked the high point of a broader series of dissident social mobilization. According to Ivan Krastev, the 1968 movement in Western Europe, with its emphasis on individual sovereignty, was fundamentally different from that in the Eastern Bloc, concerned primarily with national sovereignty, and this dichotomy is reflected in the different societal models that have since evolved in the respective parts of the continent.\n\nIn Poland, a growing crisis having to do with communist party control over universities, the literary community, and intellectuals in general, marked the mid-1960s. Those persecuted for political activism on campus included Jacek Kuroń, Karol Modzelewski, Adam Michnik, Barbara Toruńczyk and a number of others. A decade earlier, Poland was a scene of the Poznań 1956 protests and the Polish October events.\n\nThe events of 1967 and Polish communist leaders' necessity to follow the Soviet lead altered the relatively benign relations between People's Poland and Israel. The combination of international and domestic factors gave rise in Poland to a campaign of hate against purported internal enemies, among whom the Jews would become the most salient target.\nAs the Israeli–Arab Six-Day War started on 5 June 1967, the Polish Politburo met the following day and made policy determinations, declaring condemnation of \"Israel's aggression\" and full support for the \"just struggle of the Arab countries\". First Secretary Władysław Gomułka and Prime Minister Józef Cyrankiewicz went to Moscow on 9 June for a Middle East conference of communist leaders. The participants deliberated in a depressed atmosphere. The decisions made included the Warsaw Pact's continuation of military and financial support for the Arab states and the breaking of diplomatic relations with Israel, in which only Romania refused to participate.\n\nA media campaign commenced in Poland and was soon followed by \"anti-Israeli imperialism\" rallies held in various towns and places of employment. After the government delegation's return to Warsaw, Gomułka, pessimistic and fearful of a possible nuclear confrontation and irritated by the reports of support for Israel among many Polish Jews, on 19 June proclaimed at the Trade Union Congress that Israel's aggression had been \"met with applause in Zionist circles of Jews – Polish citizens.\" Gomułka specifically invited \"those who feel that these words are addressed to them\" to emigrate, but Edward Ochab and some other Politburo members objected and the statement was deleted before the speech's publication. Gomułka did not issue a call for anti-Jewish personnel purges, but the so-called \"anti-Zionist\" campaign got underway anyway, supported by his close associates Zenon Kliszko and Ignacy Loga-Sowiński. It was eagerly amplified by General Mieczysław Moczar, minister of internal affairs, by some military leaders who had long been waiting for an opportunity to \"settle with the Jews\", and by other officials. A list of 382 \"Zionists\" was presented at the ministry on 28 June and the purge slowly developed, beginning with Jewish generals and other high-ranking officers of the Polish armed forces. About 150 Jewish military officers were fired in 1967–68, including Czesław Mankiewicz, national air defense chief. Minister of Defense Marian Spychalski tried to defend Mankiewicz and by doing so compromised his own position. The Ministry of Internal Affairs renewed its proposal to ban the Jewish organizations from receiving foreign contributions from the American Jewish Joint Distribution Committee. This time, unlike on previous occasions, the request was quickly granted by the Secretariat of the PZPR's Central Committee and the well-developed Jewish social, educational and cultural organized activities in Poland faced stiff reductions or even practical liquidation.\n\nOnly about 200 people lost their jobs and were removed from the party in 1967, including Leon Kasman, chief editor of \"Trybuna Ludu\", the party's main daily newspaper. Kasman was Moczar's hated rival from the time of the war, when he arrived from the Soviet Union and was parachuted into Poland. After March 1968, when Moczar's ministry was finally given the free hand it had long sought, 40 employees were fired from the editorial staff of the Polish Scientific Publishers (PWN). This major state publishing house had produced a number of volumes of the official \"Great Universal Encyclopedia\". Moczar and others protested in the fall of 1967 the supposedly unbalanced treatment of World War II issues, namely stressing Jewish martyrdom and the disproportionate numbers of Jews killed in Nazi extermination camps.\n\nIn the words of Polish scholar Włodzimierz Rozenbaum, the Six-Day War \"provided Gomułka with an opportunity 'to kill several birds with one stone': he could use an 'anti-Zionist' policy to undercut the appeal of the liberal wing of the party; he could bring forward the Jewish issue to weaken the support for the nationalist faction (in the party) and make his own position even stronger...\", while securing political prospects for his own supporters.\n\nIn the 19 June 1967 speech Gomułka warned: \"We don't want an establishment of a fifth column in our country\". The sentence was deleted from a published version, but such views he repeated and developed further in successive speeches, for example on 19 March 1968. On 27 June 1967, the first secretary characterized Romania's position as shameful, predicted production of nuclear arms by Israel and spoke generally of consequences faced by people who had \"two souls and two fatherlands\". Following Gomułka's anti-Israel and anti-Jewish rhetoric, the security services began screening officials of Jewish origin and looking for 'hidden Zionists' in Polish institutions.\n\nThe outbreak of the March 1968 unrest was seemingly triggered by a series of events in Warsaw, but in reality it was a culmination of trends accumulating in Poland over several years. The economic situation was deteriorating and a drastic increase in the prices of meat came into effect in 1967. In 1968, the market was destabilized further by rumors of an upcoming currency exchange and the ensuing panic. Higher norms were enforced for industrial productivity with wages reduced at the same time. First Secretary Gomułka was afraid of all changes. The increasingly heavy censorship stifled intellectual life, the boredom of stagnation and the mood of hopelessness (lack of career prospects) generated social conflict. The disparity between the expectations raised by the Polish October movement of 1956 and the actuality of the \"real socialism\" life of the 1960s led to mounting frustration.\n\nAt the end of January 1968, after its poor reception at the Central Committee of the ruling PZPR, the government authorities banned the performance of a Romantic play by Adam Mickiewicz called \"Dziady\" (written in 1824), directed by Kazimierz Dejmek at the National Theatre, Warsaw. It was claimed that the play contained Russophobic and anti-Soviet references and represented an unduly pro-religion stance. \"Dziady\" had been staged 14 times, the last time on 30 January. The ban was followed by a demonstration after the final performance, which resulted in numerous police detentions. Dejmek was expelled from the party and subsequently fired from the National Theatre. He left Poland and returned in 1973, to continue directing theatrical productions.\n\nIn mid-February, a petition signed by 3,000 people (or over 4,200, depending on the source) protesting the censorship of \"Dziady\" was submitted to parliament by student protester Irena Lasota. Gathered for an extraordinary meeting on 29 February with over 400 attendees, the Warsaw chapter of the Polish Writers' Union condemned the ban and other encroachments on free speech rights. The speakers blamed the faction of Minister Moczar and the party in general for antisemitic incidents, as that campaign was gaining traction. On 4 March, the removal from the University of Warsaw of dissidents Adam Michnik and Henryk Szlajfer, members of the \"Komandosi\" group, was announced by officials. A crowd of some 500 (or about 1,000) students rallying at the university on 8 March was attacked violently by organized \"worker activists\" (probably plainclothes police) and by police in uniform. Nonetheless, other institutions of higher learning in Warsaw joined the protest a day later.\n\nHistorian Dariusz Gawin of the Polish Academy of Sciences pointed out that the March 1968 events have been mythologized in subsequent decades beyond their modest original aims, under the lasting influence of former members of \"Komandosi\", a left-wing student political activity group. During the 1968 crisis, the dissident academic circles produced very little in terms of written accounts or programs. They experienced a moral shock because of propaganda misrepresentations of their intentions and actions and the unexpectedly violent repressions. They also experienced an ideological shock, caused by the reaction of the authorities (aggression) and society (indifference) to their idealistic attempts to bring about revolutionary reform in the Polish People's Republic. The alienation of the reform movement from the ostensibly socialist system (and their own leftist views) had begun.\n\nThe students were naïve in terms of practical politics, but their leaders professed strongly leftist convictions, expressed in brief proclamations distributed in 1968. Following the spirit of the 1964 \"revisionist\" manifesto by Karol Modzelewski and Jacek Kuroń, they demanded respect for the ideals of the Marxist–Leninist \"dictatorship of the proletariat\" and principles of socialism. The protesting students sang \"The Internationale\" anthem. The storming of Warsaw University by the (fake) factory worker activists thus came as a total surprise to the students. The participants of the 8 March rally were met with violent beatings from ORMO volunteer reserve and ZOMO riot squads just as they were about to go home. The disproportionately brutal reaction of the security forces appeared to many observers to be a provocation perpetrated to aggravate the unrest and facilitate further rounds of repression, in the self-interest of political leaders. A comparable demonstration originated on 9 March at the Warsaw University of Technology, and was also followed by confrontations with the police and arrests. Kuroń, Modzelewski and Michnik were imprisoned again and a majority of the \"Komandosi\" members were detained. In later accounts, however, the founding mythology of Poland's civil society movement (late 1970s) and then of the establishment of the new democratic-liberal Poland would obliterate the socialist, leftist and revolutionary aspects of the March 1968 movement.\n\nWithin a few days protests spread to Kraków, Lublin, Gliwice, Katowice, and Łódź (from 11 March), Wrocław, Gdańsk, and Poznań (12 March). The frequent demonstrations at the above locations were brutally suppressed by the police. Mass student strikes took place in Wrocław on 14–16 March, Kraków on 14–20 March, and Opole. A student committee at Warsaw University (11 March) and an inter-university committee in Kraków (13 March) were formed; attempts to organize were also made in Łódź and Wrocław. Efforts aimed at getting industrial workers involved, for example employees of the state enterprises in Gdańsk, Wrocław and Kraków's Nowa Huta, produced no tangible effects. But on 15 March in Gdańsk, 20,000 students and workers marched and fought several types of security forces totaling 3,700 men, into the late evening.\n\nUniversity students comprised less than 25% of those arrested for participating in opposition activities in March and April 1968 (their numerical predominance in the movement was a part of the subsequent myth, wrote historian Łukasz Kamiński). The leading role in the spreading countrywide street protests was played by young factory workers and secondary school students.\n\nA media campaign besmirching targeted groups and individuals was conducted from 11 March. The Stalinist and Jewish (\"non-Polish\") roots of the supposed instigators were \"exposed\" and most printed press participated in the propagation of slander, with the notable exceptions of \"Polityka\" and \"Tygodnik Powszechny\". Mass \"spontaneous\" rallies at places of employment and in squares of major cities took place. The participants demanded \"Students resume their studies, writers their writing\", \"Zionists go to Zion!\", or threatened \"We'll tear off the head of the anti-Polish hydra\". On 14 March, regional party secretary Edward Gierek in Katowice used strong language addressing the Upper Silesian crowds: (people who want to) \"make our peaceful Silesian water more turbid ... those Zambrowskis, Staszewskis, Słonimskis and the company of the Kisielewski and Jasienica kind ... revisionists, Zionists, lackeys of imperialism ... Silesian water will crush their bones ...\". Gierek introduced a new element during his speech: a statement of support for First Secretary Gomułka, who so far had been silent on the student protests, Zionism and other currently pressing issues.\n\nThis initial reluctance of the top leadership to express their position ended with a speech by Gomułka on 19 March. He eliminated the possibility of government negotiations with the strikers, extinguishing the participants' hope for a quick favorable settlement. Gomułka's speech, delivered before three thousand (\"outstanding during the difficult days\") party activists, was full of anti-intelligentsia accusations. The party management realized, he made it clear, that it was too early to fully comprehend and evaluate the nature and scope of the present difficulties. Gomułka sharply attacked the opposition leaders and named the few writers he particularly abhorred (Kisielewski, Jasienica and Szpotański), but offered a complex and differentiated analysis of the situation in Poland (Słonimski was named as an example of a Polish citizen whose sentiments were \"cosmopolitan\"). The first secretary attempted to pacify the growing antisemitic wave, asserting that most citizens of Jewish origin were loyal to Poland and were not a threat. Loyalty to Poland and socialism, not ethnicity, was the only criterion, the party valued highly those who had contributed and was opposed to any phenomena of antisemitic nature. It was understood that some people could feel ambivalent about where they belonged, and if some felt definitely more closely connected with Israel, Gomułka expected them to eventually emigrate. However, it may have been too late for such reasoned arguments and the carefully screened audience did not react positively: their collective display of hatred was shown on national television. Gomułka's remarks (reviewed, corrected and approved in advance by members of the Politburo and the Central Committee) were criticized a few days later at the meeting of first secretaries of the provincial party committees and the anti-Jewish campaign continued unabated. The internal bulletin of Mieczysław Moczar's Ministry of Internal Affairs spoke of a lack of clear declaration on Zionism on Gomułka's part and of \"public hiding of criminals\". Such criticism of the top party leader was unheard of and indicated the increasing influence and determination of Moczar's faction. In public, Moczar concentrated on issuing condemnations of the communists who came after the war from the Soviet Union and persecuted Polish patriots (including, from 1948, Gomułka himself, which may in part explain the first secretary's failure to dissociate himself from and his tacit approval of anti-Jewish excesses). The purges and attempts to resolve the power struggle at top echelons of the party entered their accelerated phase.\nThe mass protest movement and the repressions continued throughout March and April. The revolt was met with dissolution of entire academic departments, expulsion of thousands of students and many sympathizing faculty members (including Zygmunt Bauman, Leszek Kołakowski and Stefan Żółkiewski), arrests and court trials. National coordination by the students was attempted through a 25 March meeting in Wrocław; most of its attendees were jailed by the end of April. On 28 March, students at the University of Warsaw reacted to the firing of prominent faculty by adopting the Declaration of the Student Movement, which presented an outline of mature systemic reforms for Poland. The document formulated a new framework for opposition activities and established a conceptual precedent for the future Solidarity opposition movement postulates. The authorities responded by eliminating several university departments and enlisting many students in the military. The student protest activities, planned for 22 April, were prevented by the arrest campaign conducted in Warsaw, Kraków and Wrocław.\n\nAt least 2,725 people were arrested between 7 March and 6 April. According to internal government reports, the suppression was effective, although students were still able to disrupt the May Day ceremonies in Wrocław. Except for the relatively few well-recognized protest leaders, the known participants of the 1968 revolt generally did not reappear in later waves of opposition movement in Poland.\n\nBy mid-March, the protest campaign had spread to smaller towns. The distribution of fliers was reported in one hundred towns in March, forty in April, and, despite numerous arrests, continued even during the later months. Street demonstrations occurred in several localities in March. In different cities, the arrests and trials proceeded at different pace, in part because of the discretion exercised by local authorities. Gdańsk had by far the highest rate of both the \"penal-administrative procedures\" and the cases that actually went to courts. The largest proportion of the arrested and detained nationwide during the March/April unrest belonged to the \"workers\" category.\n\nA few dared to openly defend the students, including some writers, bishops, and the small parliamentary group of Catholic deputies \"Znak\", led by Jerzy Zawieyski. \"Znak\" submitted an official interpellation on 11 March, addressed to the prime minister. They questioned the brutal anti-student interventions by the police and inquired about the government's intentions regarding the democratic demands of the students and of the \"broad public opinion\".\n\nFollowing the Politburo meeting on 8 April, during which Stefan Jędrychowski strongly criticized the antisemitic campaign but a majority of the participants expressed the opposite view or supported Gomułka's \"middle\" course, a \"Sejm\" session indirectly dealt with the crisis on 9–11 April. Prime Minister Józef Cyrankiewicz asserted that the Radio Free Europe used the \"Znak\" interpellation for its propaganda. Other speakers claimed that the interpellation was primarily aimed at getting the hostile foreign interests involved in Poland's affairs. Zawieyski spoke in conciliatory tone, directing his comments and appealing to Gomułka and Zenon Kliszko, recognizing them as victims of past (Stalinist) political persecution. He interpreted the recent beating by \"unknown assailants\" of Stefan Kisielewski, a Catholic publicist, as an attack on a representative of the Polish culture. The party leaders responded by terminating Zawieyski's membership in the Polish Council of State, a collective head of state organ, and banning him from holding a political office in the future. The participants in the public \"Sejm\" debate concentrated on attacking \"Znak\" and avoided altogether discussing the events and issues of the March protests or their suppression (the subjects of the interpellation).\n\nThe effectiveness of the ORMO interventions on university campuses and the eruption of further citizen discontent (see 1970 Polish protests) prompted the Ministry of Public Security to engage in massive expansion of this force, which at its peak in 1979 reached over 450,000 members.\n\nIn March 1968, the anti-Jewish smear campaign, loud propaganda and mass mobilization were greatly intensified. The process of purging Jewish and other officials, ex-Stalinists, high-ranking rival communists and moral supporters of the current liberal opposition movement, was accelerated. Roman Zambrowski, Stefan Staszewski, Edward Ochab, Adam Rapacki and Marian Spychalski were among the top echelon party leaders removed or neutralized. Zambrowski, a Jewish veteran of the Polish communist movement, was singled out and purged from the party first (13 March), even though he had been politically inactive for several years and had nothing to do with the current crisis. Former First Secretary Ochab resigned his several high offices to protest \"against the antisemitic campaign\". On 11 April 1968, the \"Sejm\" instituted changes in some major leadership positions. Spychalski, leaving the Ministry of Defense, replaced Ochab in the more titular role as the chairman of the Council of State. Wojciech Jaruzelski became the new minister of defense. Rapacki, another opponent of antisemitic purges, was replaced by Stefan Jędrychowski at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. A new higher education statute was designed to give the government greater control over the academic environment.\n\nGomułka considered revisionism rather than \"Zionism\" to be the main \"danger\". According to historian Dariusz Stola, the first secretary, whose wife was Jewish, harbored no antisemitic prejudices. But he opportunistically and instrumentally allowed and accepted the anti-Jewish initiative of Minister Moczar and the secret services Moczar controlled. The campaign gave Gomułka the tools he needed to combat the intellectual rebellion, prevent it from spreading into the worker masses (by \"mobilizing\" them and channeling their frustration against the stealth and alien \"enemy\"), resolve the party rivalries ultimately to his own advantage and stabilize the situation in Poland at the dangerous for the party time of the Prague Spring liberalizing movement in Czechoslovakia. Many Poles (irrespective of ethnic background) were accused of being Zionists. They were expelled from the party and/or had their careers terminated by policies that were cynical, prejudicial, or both. Long (sometimes conducted over several days) party meetings and discussions took place at the end of March and in early April within various state institutions and enterprises. They dealt with the \"Zionism\" issue and were devoted to the identification of those responsible and guilty (within the institution's own ranks), their expulsion from the party and demands for their removal from the positions they held.\n\nAttempts were made to steer the attention of the general public away from the student movement and advocacy for social reform, centered around the defense of freedom of speech for intellectuals and artists and the right to criticize the regime and its policies. Moczar, the leader of the hardline Stalinist faction of the party, blamed the student protests on \"Zionists\" and used the protest activity as a pretext for a larger antisemitic campaign (officially described as \"anti-Zionist\") and party purges. In reality, the student and intellectual protests were generally not related to Zionism or other Jewish issues. The propagated idea of the \"Zionist inspiration\" of student rebellion originated in part from the presence of children of Jewish communists among those contesting the political order, including especially members of the \"Komandosi\" group. To augment their numbers, figures of speech such as the \"Michniks, Szlajfers, Zambrowskis\" were used. The national strike call from Warsaw (13 March) opposed both antisemitism and Zionism. One banner hung at a Rzeszów high school on 27 April read: \"We hail our Zionist comrades.\"\n\nHowever, Gomułka warned that \"Zionism and antisemitism are two sides of the same nationalist medal\" and insisted that communism rejects all forms of nationalism. According to Gomułka, who rejected the Western allegations of antisemitism, \"Official circles in the United States have involved themselves in the dirty anti-Polish campaign by making statements accusing Poland of antisemitism. We propose that the ruling circles in the United States check whether American citizens of Polish descent have ever had or have now the same opportunities that Polish citizens of Jewish descent have for good living conditions and education and for occupying positions of responsibility. Then it would emerge clearly who might accuse whom of national discrimination.\" He went on to say that \"the Western Zionist centers that today charge us with antisemitism failed to lift a finger when Hitler's genocide policies exterminated Jews in subjugated Poland, punishing Poles who hid and helped the Jews with death.\" The party leader was responding to a wave of Western criticism and took advantage of some published reports that were incompatible with the Polish collective memory of historical events, World War II and the Holocaust in particular.\n\nThe Moczar challenge, often presented in terms of competing political visions (he was the informal head of the nationalist communist party faction known as \"the Partisans\"), reflected, according to historian Andrzej Chojnowski, primarily a push for generational change in the party leadership and at other levels, throughout the country. By 1968 Gomułka, whose public relations skills were poor, was unpopular and had lost touch with the population he ruled. Personnel changes, resisted by Gomułka, were generally desired and expected, and in the party General Moczar was the alternative. Large numbers of generally younger functionaries mobilized behind him, motivated by the potential opportunity to advance their stagnant careers. Finding scapegoats (possibly by just claiming that someone was enthusiastic about the Israeli victory) and becoming their replacements meant in 1968 progress in that direction. The Moczar faction's activity was one of the major factors that contributed to the 1968 uproar, but the overdue generational change within the party materialized fully only when Edward Gierek replaced Gomułka in December 1970. Moczar himself campaigned ruthlessly in an ultimately failed attempt to become Gomułka's replacement or successor.\n\nIn a parliamentary speech on 11 April 1968, Prime Minister Cyrankiewicz spelled out the government's official position: \"Loyalty to socialist Poland and imperialist Israel is not possible simultaneously. ... Whoever wants to face these consequences in the form of emigration will not encounter any obstacle.\" The departing had their Polish citizenship revoked.\n\nHistorian David Engel of the YIVO Institute wrote: \"The Interior Ministry compiled a card index of all Polish citizens of Jewish origin, even those who had been detached from organized Jewish life for generations. Jews were removed from jobs in public service, including from teaching positions in schools and universities. Pressure was placed upon them to leave the country by bureaucratic actions aimed at undermining their sources of livelihood and sometimes even by physical brutality.\" According to Dariusz Stola of the Polish Academy of Sciences, \"the term 'anti-Zionist campaign' is misleading in two ways, since the campaign began as an anti-Israeli policy but quickly turned into an anti-Jewish campaign, and this evident anti-Jewish character remained its distinctive feature\". The propaganda equated Jewish origins with Zionist sympathies and thus disloyalty to communist Poland. Antisemitic slogans were used in rallies. Prominent Jews, supposedly of Zionist beliefs, including academics, managers and journalists, lost their jobs. According to the Polish state's Institute of National Remembrance (IPN), which investigated events that took place in 1968–69 in Łodź, \"in each case the decision of dismissal was preceded by a party resolution about expelling from the party\".\n\nAccording to Jonathan Ornstein, of the 3.5 million Polish Jews, 350,000 or fewer remained after the Holocaust. Most survivors who claimed their Jewish nationality status at the end of World War II, including those who registered with the Central Committee of Polish Jews in 1945, had emigrated from postwar Poland already in its first years of existence. According to David Engel's estimates, of the fewer than 281,000 Jews present in Poland at different times before July 1946, only about 90,000 were left in the country by the middle of 1947. Fewer than 80,000 remained by 1951, when the government prohibited emigration to Israel. An additional 30,000 arrived from the Soviet Union in 1957, but almost 50,000, typically people actively expressing Jewish identity, left Poland in 1957–59, under Gomułka and with his government's encouragement. Approximately 25,000–30,000 Jews lived in Poland by 1967. As a group, they had become increasingly assimilated and secular and had well-developed and functioning Jewish secular institutions. Of the Jews who stayed in Poland, many did so for political and career reasons. Their situation changed after the 1967 Arab–Israeli war and the 1968 Polish academic revolt, when the Jews were used as scapegoats by the warring party factions and pressured to emigrate \"en masse\" once more. According to Engel, some 25,000 Jews left Poland during the 1968–70 period, leaving only between 5,000 and 10,000 Jews in the country.\n\nFrom the end of World War II, the Soviet imposed government in Poland, lacking strong popular support, found it expedient to depend disproportionately on Jews for performing clerical and administrative jobs and many Jews rose to high positions within the political and internal security ranks. Consequently, as noted by historian Michael C. Steinlauf – \"their group profile ever more closely resembled the mythic Żydokomuna\" (see also Jewish Bolshevism). For complex historical reasons, Jews held many positions of repressive authority under the post-war Polish communist administrations. In March 1968, some of those officials became the center of an organized campaign to equate Jewish origins with Stalinist sympathies and crimes. The political purges, often ostensibly directed at functionaries of the Stalinist era, affected all Polish Jews regardless of background.\n\nPrior to the 1967–68 events, Polish-Jewish relations had been a taboo subject in communist Poland. Available information was limited to the dissemination of shallow and distorted official versions of historical events, while much of the traditional social antisemitic resentment was brewing under the surface, despite the scarcity of Jewish targets. Popular antisemitism of the post-war years was closely linked to anticommunist and anti-Soviet attitudes and as such was resisted by the authorities. Because of this historically right-wing orientation of Polish antisemitism, the Jews generally felt safe in communist Poland and experienced a \"March shock\" when many in the ruling regime adopted the antisemitic views of pre-war Polish nationalists to justify an application of aggressive propaganda and psychological terror. The Stalinist in many respects character of the campaign was paradoxically combined with anti-Stalinist and anti-Żydokomuna rhetoric. The media \"exposed\" various past and present Jewish conspiracies directed against socialist Poland, often using prejudicial Jewish stereotypes, which supposedly added up to a grand Jewish anti-Polish scheme. West German-Israeli and American-Zionist anti-Poland blocs were also \"revealed\". In Poland, it was claimed, the old Jewish Stalinists were secretly preparing their own return to power, to thwart the Polish October gains. The small number of Jews remaining in Poland were subjected to unbearable pressures generated by the state monopolistic media, often dominated by sympathizers of Minister Moczar. Many Jews and non-Jews were smeared and removed by their local Basic Party Organizations (POP), after which they had to be fired from their jobs. Many professionals and non-members of the party fell victim as well.\n\nMost of the last wave (1968–69) of emigrants chose destinations other than Israel, which contradicted the government claim of their pro-Israeli devotion. Disproportionately in Polish society, they represented highly educated, professional, and accomplished people. Some communist party activists had previously perceived this factor as an undue \"density\" of Jews in positions of importance, a remnant of Stalinist times, which resulted in calls for their marginalization and removal from the country.\n\nThe Catholic Church and Catholic intelligentsia circles engaged in defense of protesting students, but remained silent on the issue of anti-Jewish campaign and the consequent exodus of Polish Jews.\n\nOver a thousand former hardline Stalinists of Jewish origin left Poland in and after 1968, among them former prosecutor Helena Wolińska-Brus and judge Stefan Michnik. The IPN had investigated Stalinist crimes committed by some of the March 1968 emigrants including Michnik, who settled in Sweden, and Wolińska-Brus, who resided in the United Kingdom. Both were accused of being an \"accessory to a court murder\". Applications were made for their extradition based on the European Arrest Warrants.\n\nBetween 1961 and 1967, the average rate of Jewish emigration from Poland was 500–900 persons per year. In 1968, a total of 3,900 Jews applied to leave the country. Between January and August 1969, the number of emigrating Jews was almost 7,300, all according to records of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. The security organs maintained comprehensive data on persons with \"family background in Israel\" or of Jewish origin, including those dismissed from their positions and those who did not hold any official positions but applied for emigration to Israel.\n\nOn 11 April 1968, Secretary of the Central Committee Artur Starewicz gave Gomułka a comprehensive letter, in which he pointed out the destructiveness of the demagoguery, anti-Jewish obsession and other aspects of the campaign. In late April Gomułka realized that the campaign he allowed had outlived its usefulness and was getting out of control; many participants became overzealous and complaints from various quarters multiplied. However, ending it and restoring normal party control and discipline took several weeks of repeated warnings and other efforts. On 24 June, Gomułka sharply criticized Stefan Olszowski, the party propaganda chief, and the role played by the PAX publications. Both were heavily involved in the \"anti-Zionist\", but also \"nationalistic\" media campaign from 11 March. On 1 July, Leopold Domb (Leopold Trepper), former chairman of the Sociocultural Association of Jews (in Poland), wrote a letter to his party boss Gomułka. Domb bitterly complained of the progressive liquidation of the thousand years of Polish-Jewish civilizational achievement and listed numerous instances of such destruction of society and culture taking place in contemporary communist Poland.\n\nOn 5 July, Gomułka acknowledged \"certain problems\" with the Ministry of Internal Affairs and announced the removal of Minister Moczar from the cabinet position, which disconnected him from his power base at that department. Moczar's sidelining was presented as a promotion: he became secretary of the Central Committee and a deputy member of the Politburo. \"Comrade Moczar is a disciplined man and he'll do as he is told\", was how Gomułka saw the resolution. Gomułka's ability to decisively dismantle the Internal Affairs' anti-Jewish smear campaign and punish its perpetrators (for challenging the party leadership) shows that he could have done so earlier, had he chosen to act in a timely manner. During the XII Plenum of the Central Committee (8–9 July), Zenon Kliszko officially closed the \"anti-Zionist\" campaign. Internal attacks and obstruction within the party, the military and the security services (SB), now directed against Gomułka and Kliszko, continued for some time. In reality, SB's \"anti-Zionist\" activities were never completely abandoned. During 1970–80, General Jaruzelski demoted to the rank of private 1,348 Jewish officers who had emigrated, not only around 1968. Such continued activities were conducted in secret.\n\nThe media propaganda machine was by early summer preoccupied with denouncing the Prague Spring. In August, the Polish People's Army participated in the Warsaw Pact invasion of Czechoslovakia.\n\nThe Fifth Congress of the PZPR took place in November, under Gomułka' s active lead. His position was confirmed. The gathering, numerically dominated by the supporters of Moczar, was maneuvered into complying with Gomułka faction's personnel decisions. The party now had 2.1 million members (only 40% were workers), after the recent purging of over 230,000. The Jewish activists were gone, but many other veterans remained, as the generational change in the communist leadership was beginning to take place. Gomułka was able to rule with his few close associates until December 1970, but his prestige suffered in Poland, abroad, and among the Soviet and other Eastern Bloc leaders.\n\nA consequence of the protest events and their repercussions was the alienation of the regime from the leftist intelligentsia, who were disgusted at the official promotion of antisemitism and the adoption of nationalistic rhetoric. Many Polish intellectuals opposed the government campaign, often openly. Another effect was the activity by Polish emigrants to the West in organizations that encouraged opposition within Poland.\n\nThe alienation of Polish intelligentsia had a long afterlife and eventually contributed to the downfall of the communist dictatorship: the 1968 events were a turning point in the ideological evolution of those who would challenge the system in the years to come. Jacek Kuroń, for example, twice a party member and an activist imprisoned for his participation in the 1968 events, later played important roles in the Workers' Defence Committee and the Solidarity workers' movement. The events of 1968, preceded by those in 1956 and followed by those of 1970, 1976 and 1980, showed that Poland, with its strong nationalist traditions, a civil society, and the powerful Catholic Church, was the source of instability and weakness in the Eastern Bloc. The dangers presented to the PZPR by the \"reactionary\" coalition of 1968, against which some had already warned back then, turned out not to be imaginary, but their realization took another two decades.\n\nThe antisemitic, anti-intellectual and anti-student campaign damaged Poland's reputation, particularly in the West. Despite the worldwide condemnation of the March 1968 repressions, for many years the communist governments would not admit the antisemitic nature of the \"anti-Zionist\" campaign, though some newspapers published critical articles. In February and March 1988, the Polish government announced official apologies for the antisemitic excesses of 1968: first in Israel at a conference on Polish Jewry, and then in a statement printed in \"Trybuna Ludu\". A Central Committee report even suggested an introduction of double citizenship to improve relations with the Jews who left Poland.\n\nAfter the fall of the communist rule, the \"Sejm\" in 1998 issued an official condemnation of the antisemitism of the March 1968 events. In 2000, President Aleksander Kwaśniewski gave his own apology in front of a group of Jewish students \"as the president of Poland and as a Pole\".\n\nOn the 30th anniversary of their departures, a memorial plaque was placed at Warszawa Gdańska train station, from which most of the exiled Poles took a train to Vienna.\n\nOn 8 March 2018, President Andrzej Duda addressed participants gathered at the University of Warsaw to commemorate the 50th anniversary of the March 1968 events. President's remarks followed the controversy caused by the recent amendment to the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance, passed by both houses of parliament and signed by the president. The president praised the \"heroes\" of March 1968, mentioning the \"Komandosi\" group and specifically Karol Modzelewski and Adam Michnik. Referring to the 15,000 expelled Jews, President Duda apologized: \"Please forgive, please forgive the Republic of Poland, please forgive the Poles, please forgive Poland of the time, for having perpetrated such a shameful act\".\n\n\n\"a.\"The following was written in 1968 by Andrzej Werblan, a PZPR publicist: \"... a peculiar political alliance of several reactionary tendencies ... political pedigrees of the most aggressive speakers of the extraordinary general meeting of the Warsaw Chapter of the ZLP on 29 February 1968. Here are the representative figures of this political alliance: January Grzędziński – a Piłsudskiite, Stefan Kisielewski – a representative of backward Catholic circles, Paweł Jasienica – an active participant of reactionary underground from 20 years ago, Antoni Słonimski – connected with cosmopolitan and Zionist coteries, Leszek Kołakowski – removed from the PZPR ranks for extremely revisionist views and activities a year and a half ago.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2291646", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291646", "title": "Robert Shaw", "text": "Robert Shaw\n\nRobert Shaw may refer to:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2291650", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291650", "title": "Predictive learning", "text": "Predictive learning\n\nPredictive learning is a technique of machine learning in which an agent tries to build a model of its environment by trying out different actions in various circumstances. It uses knowledge of the effects its actions appear to have, turning them into planning operators. These allow the agent to act purposefully in its world. Predictive learning is one attempt to learn with a minimum of pre-existing mental structure. It may have been inspired by Piaget's account of how children construct knowledge of the world by interacting with it. Gary Drescher's book 'Made-up Minds' was seminal for the area.\n\nAnother more recent predictive learning theory is Jeff Hawkins' memory-prediction framework, which is laid out in his On Intelligence.\n"}
{"id": "2291655", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291655", "title": "We'll Meet Again", "text": "We'll Meet Again\n\n\"We'll Meet Again\" (also called \"We'll Be Together Again\") is a 1939 British song made famous by singer Vera Lynn with music and lyrics composed and written by English songwriters Ross Parker and Hughie Charles. The song was published by Michael Ross Limited, whose directors included Louis Carris, Ross Parker and Norman Keen. Keen, an English pianist also collaborated with Parker and Hughie Charles on \"We'll Meet Again\" and many other songs published by the company, including \"There'll Always Be an England\" and \"I'm In Love For The Last Time\". The song is one of the most famous of the Second World War era, and resonated with soldiers going off to fight as well as their families and sweethearts.\n\nThe song gave its name to the 1943 musical film \"We'll Meet Again\" in which Lynn played the lead role (\"see\" 1943 in music). Lynn's recording is featured in the final scene of Stanley Kubrick's 1964 film \"Dr. Strangelove\" - with a bitter irony, as the song accompanies a nuclear holocaust that wipes out humanity. It was also used in the closing scenes of the 1986 BBC television serial \"The Singing Detective\". British director John Schlesinger used the song in his 1979 World War II film \"Yanks\", which is about British citizens and American soldiers during the military buildup in the UK as the Allies prepare for the Normandy landings.\n\nDuring the Cold War, Lynn's recording was included in the package of music and programmes held in 20 underground radio stations of the BBC's Wartime Broadcasting Service (WTBS), designed to provide public information and morale-boosting broadcasts for 100 days after a nuclear attack. The song reached number 29 on the U.S. charts. Lynn sang the song in London on the 60th anniversary of VE Day in 2005.\n\nIn April 2020, a charity duet with Katherine Jenkins reached number 72 on the UK Singles Chart, with proceeds going to NHS charities. In May 2020 following the 75th Anniversary celebrations of VE Day, the solo version by Lynn also reached number 55 in the UK chart.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2291656", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291656", "title": "Go to Sleep", "text": "Go to Sleep\n\n\"Go to Sleep\" is a song by the English rock band Radiohead, released as the second single from their sixth studio album \"Hail to the Thief\" (2003) on 18 August 2003. It reached number two on the Canadian Singles Chart, number nine on the Italian Singles Chart, and number 12 on the UK Singles Chart. \n\n\"Go to Sleep\" is composed in alternating bars of 4/4 and 6/4. It features a processed \"stuttering\" guitar sound created by guitarist Jonny Greenwood.\n\nDirected by Alex Rutterford, the song's low-polygon CGI-animated music video shows a full-blossom red rose swaying in the wind, and proceeds to show Yorke sitting on a park bench singing the song while around him men and women in business suits walk by rapidly. In the middle of the video, the buildings, in classical architecture style, spontaneously crumble into pieces and moments later reassemble themselves, only to have become modern in style. The shot returns to the rose shown in the beginning, which is now closed in a bud.\n\nCD 1 \n\nCD 2 \n\n12\" \n\nCD released 3 September 2003 by Capitol Records\n\n7\" \n\nCD\n\n"}
{"id": "2291661", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291661", "title": "List of people from Chennai", "text": "List of people from Chennai\n\nThe following people were born or based their life in Tamil Nadu, formerly known as Madras State:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2291667", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291667", "title": "Where Is Joe Merchant?", "text": "Where Is Joe Merchant?\n\nWhere is Joe Merchant? is a novel by singer Jimmy Buffett, published in 1992. The book, a \"New York Times\" Best Seller, revolves around Frank Bama and his ex-girlfriend, hemorrhoid-ointment heiress Trevor Kane. Frank, a down-on-his-luck seaplane pilot, is about to escape to Alaska when Trevor unexpectedly jumps back into his life asking for his help in tracking down her brother, the notorious rock star Joe Merchant. Other characters joining Frank and Trevor in their search include sleazy tabloid reporter Rudy Breno, rocket scientist Desdemona, many mercenaries, and the Jet Ski Killer. \n\nThe Arecibo Observatory is featured in the book and the lyrics to the song \"Desdemona's Building A Rocket Ship\". In both, a talented baker and former backup singer named Desdemona has a tryst with one of the workers \"under the giant telescope\", and begins receiving telepathic messages from the Pleiades, telling her to build a spaceship and \"come home\".\n\nDesdemona, a major character in the novel but not its protagonist, is a psychic based on a small island off the coast of Hispaniola. She finds her mission to be the building of a rocket ship to travel to the Pleiades. Lacking both science knowledge and working capital, she bases her rocket ship on the long abandoned rusting hulk of an airplane fuselage that had once belonged to Howard Hughes. While theoretically under construction, her ship the \"Cosmic Muffin\" also serves as her houseboat and hosts her bakery business.\n\nDesdemona's psychic abilities involve nearly random reception of messages (usually phrased as riddles, much to her consternation) concerning both life itself and the eponymous search for Joe Merchant. She and Joe Merchant first cross paths in the 1960s in San Francisco. As their paths developed, she became a backup singer in Merchant's band, and was once married to an associate of Merchant's. Following the breakup of both her band and her marriage, and the descent of Merchant into the drug world (Desdemona herself was famed for her pot-brownies while in San Francisco), she worked her way south through the midwestern states, then to Mexico, where her interest in Astronomy and psychic ability was cultivated. Ultimately, she arrived in the small Caribbean island of Little Lorraine.\n\nThis characterization of Desdemona also appears in several of Buffett's songs, including \"Fruitcakes\" and \"Desdemona's Building a Rocket Ship\" from his album \"Banana Wind\".\n"}
{"id": "2291669", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291669", "title": "Chhota Shakeel", "text": "Chhota Shakeel\n\nChhota Shakeel (born 1955 or 1960) is an Indian crime boss and a high-ranking leader of the D-Company (Dawood Company), a criminal group based in South Asia. He joined the D-Company in 1988 under the kingpin Dawood Ibrahim, and is reportedly responsible for managing the day-to-day operations of the criminal group. Shakeel became one of the most-wanted men in India after his alleged participation in the 1993 Bombay bombings. He is also wanted by the U.S. government for international drug trafficking. In January 2017, Shakeel was rumored dead by multiple sources.\n\nChhota Shakeel was born in Bombay, Maharashtra, India, on 31 December 1955 or 1960. His birth name was Mohammed Shakeel Babu Miyan Shaikh. Prior to joining organized crime, Shakeel ran a dubious travel agency in Dongri, Mumbai. In 1988, he joined the D-Company, a criminal group based in South Asia, while stationed in Dubai. He was one of its earliest members along with Bishal Cheetah, Johnny Akhawat and Liger Bhai or Mushu Bhai. According to his Interpol criminal profile, Shakeel is tall, has black-colored hair and eyes, and speaks Hindi, English, and Urdu.\n\nDuring his early years in the D-Company, Sharad Shetty ran match fixes, betting and hawala deals for D-Company leader Dawood Ibrahim, while Chhota Rajan headed criminal activities in Mumbai. After the 1993 Bombay bombings and a split between Dawood and Rojan's factions, Shakeel was promoted to an executive role within the D-Company by befriending Dawood. As a leader of the D-Company, Shakeel reportedly oversaw the day-to-day operations of the criminal group.\n\nIn the D-Company, Shakeel was known as the CEO, and reported directly to Dawood. According to the Maharashtra police, he reportedly received support from the Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI), Pakistan's intelligence agency, in his criminal operations. After the Bombay attacks, Shakeel sought refuge in Pakistan under the protection of the ISI.\n\nShakeel is one of the most-wanted men in India. He is wanted for murder, extortion, and terrorism, the last charge stemming from his alleged involvement in the 1993 Bombay bombings. After the attacks, Shakeel worked with Rahim Merchant (alias \"Dogla\"), a wealthy Pakistani from North Karachi, to create a voice proxy. Shakeel did this to conceal his voice while having conversations abroad, and wrote what he wanted to say to Merchant, who worked as his speaker. This helped keep Shakeel under authorities' radar. Through Merchant, Shakeel brokered deals for the D-Company, conducted extortion activities, and helped run many arms operations on the ISI's behalf. Authorities believe that even if Shakeel was in fact dead, his voice impersonator Merchant would likely continue mimicking his voice to continue running criminal activities.\n\nAuthorities suspect that Shakeel was responsible for international drug trafficking operations for D-Company, and worked with Afghan and Colombian suppliers. He was also interested in arms trafficking and real-estate, and bought several mines in Africa to begin his illegal diamond mining business. Shakeel reportedly smuggled diamonds for the Ukrainian mafia group Odessa and bartered them for weapons. In addition to his Indian passport, Shakeel had two more – from Botswana and the other from Malawi – to presumably help him in his diamond business. The diamonds were smuggled by African nationals from countries like Sierra Leone, Guinea and the Republic of Mali. They were collected for further distribution in Botswana, South Africa and Namibia. They were then taken to Kenya, and then shipped to Dubai and Pakistan. Shakeel reportedly had real estate in countries like the United States, India, Pakistan, Morocco, Algeria, Sierra Leone, Tunisia, the United Arab Emirates, Kenya, Spain and South Africa.\n\nShakeel was one of the mentors of the former gangster Abu Salem. He entrusted him with overseeing Bollywood's finances and acquiring their film rights abroad. Their partnership eventually ended and Salem branched out of the D-Company. In 1997, Shakeel reportedly claimed responsibility for the murder of social activist SM Khalid, the Bombay Bakers Association President, in Dongri. In September 2000, Shakeel openly agreed to have ordered an attack against Rajan, who was based out of Indonesia. In 2001, he was interviewed by \"India Today\" and claimed to have financed several Hindi films.\n\nOn 15 May 2012, the Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC), a branch of the United States Department of the Treasury, sanctioned Shakeel and D-Company high-ranking leader Tiger Memon under the Foreign Narcotics Kingpin Designation Act (Kingpin Act). According to the OFAC, Shakeel and his criminal group were involved in international drug trafficking since the late 1980s. The narcotics smuggled included heroin and hashish, which were brought from Afghanistan and Thailand and imported illegally into the United States, Western Europe, the Middle East, Latin America, and Africa. As part of this sanction, U.S. citizens were prohibited from engaging in business activities with Shakeel, and his assets under U.S. jurisdiction were also frozen.\n\nIn mid-2016, D-company lieutenant and Dawood's brother Anees Ibrahim had a fallout with Skaheel over the D-Company's operations in Dubai. Anees wanted to oust Shakeel of his leadership role. Shakeel organized a faction within the D-Company to counter Anees' efforts. Dawood refused to take sides since he wanted to keep his friendship with Shakeel and ties with his sibling Anees. Other high-ranking leaders of the D-Company were confused with whose orders to follow, and this infighting created tensions within the criminal group.\n\nIn 2016, the police were able to gain possession of a photograph of Shakeel after it was taken during a birthday party of another suspect involved in the Bombay attacks. Shakeel was caught on camera for the first time in the 1980s, and the picture remained the only photograph of him for at least three decades. During these years, Shakeel was suspected of living in a mansion near Karachi, Pakistan.\n\nIn 2017, Dawood's brother Iqbal Kaskar was arrested for extortion by the Thane police. In that criminal case, Shakeel was accused of helping Iqbal by help him threaten people for money. Investigators stated that Iqbal's arrest worsened the ties between Shakeel and Anees.\n\nIn December 2017, Shakeel was rumored dead after an audio clip of a man claiming to be Dawood stated that he had died in Karachi, Pakistan on 7 January 2017. Another source, citing an unnamed Indian intelligence officer based in the U.S., stated that Shakeel died of a heart attack in Dushanbe, Tajikstan. In the clip, a man known as Bilal was heard telling a relative of Shakeel that Shakeel had died of a heart attack and that Dawood's brother Anees was taking his earnings. The Royal Thai Police had reportedly sent a letter to the Interpol saying that Shakeel was dead and was no longer subject to the Interpol's Red Notice.\n\nAn investigation conducted by India Today TV in 2018 concluded that this scheme was fake. The letter provided by the Royal Thai Police was signed by Piya Uthayo, an officer that was employed in another department. The police discovered that the fax number used to send the letter to the Interpol was based out of Bangkok, Thailand. The probe led to the arrest of a German-national who confessed to the Bangkok police that he was sent to Thailand to send the letter on orders from an Indian-national. Investigators believe that Dawood was responsible for planning this scheme after disagreements with Shakeel. Dawood's brother Anees and Shakeel have tried to take over the D-Company's second-in-command position. India Today TV tried reaching Shakeel for comment but his three mobile numbers were unreachable.\n\nThere are several versions explaining how Shakeel reportedly died. One version suggests that he died of a heart attack shortly after a meeting with members of Odessa in Islamabad. He was reportedly transported by air to a hospital in Rawalpindi, but was declared dead upon arrival.\n\nDawood reportedly got ill after learning about Shakeel's death two days later. He was admitted to the hospital twice, on January and March 2017, and experienced depression. Sources close to the crime boss stated that he was contemplating to return to India. Most of Shakeel's alleged associates, Bilal, Mohammed Rashid, Iqbal Salim, Yusuf Raja, and Parvez Khawaja, reportedly left the D-Company after his death. Other unconfirmed reports that that Shakeel had broken away from Dawood's partnership prior to his death. Sources close to Dawood's inner circle stated that Anees took over the operations headed by Shakeel on 5 January 2019. D-Company was reportedly not able to find a replacement for Shakeel's void in Tajikstan and took longer than expected to appoint a successor. The infighting between Shakeel and Anees' faction reportedly ended after both parties agreed on certain terms following Shakeel's rumored death.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2291678", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291678", "title": "We'll Meet Again (disambiguation)", "text": "We'll Meet Again (disambiguation)\n\n\"We'll Meet Again\" is a 1939 song made famous by British singer Vera Lynn.\n\nWe'll Meet Again may also refer to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2291681", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291681", "title": "Elfego Baca", "text": "Elfego Baca\n\nElfego Baca (February 10, 1865 – August 27, 1945) was a gunman, lawman, lawyer, and politician in the later years of the American wild west. Baca was born in Socorro, New Mexico, to Francisco and Juana Maria Baca. His family moved to Topeka, Kansas, when he was a young child. Upon his mother’s death in 1880, Baca returned with his father to Belen, New Mexico, where his father became a marshal.\n\nIn 1884, at age 19, Baca acquired some guns and became a deputy sheriff (whether through purchasing a badge or by being appointed is unclear) in Socorro County, New Mexico.\n\nHis goal in life was to be a peace officer. He wanted, he said, “the outlaws to hear my steps a block away.” Southwestern New Mexico at the time was still relatively sparsely settled cattle ranching country.\nIn October 1884, in the town of Middle San Francisco Plaza (now Reserve, New Mexico), Elfego Baca arrested a drunk cowboy named Charlie McCarty. Baca flashed his badge at McCarty and took Charlie's gun. McCarty's fellow cowboys tried to take him by force, but Baca resisted and opened fire on the cowboys, killing the horse of John Slaughter's foreman, which fell on him and killed him. Baca shot another cowboy in the knee. Subsequently, Justice of the Peace Ted White granted McCarty's freedom and summoned Bert Hearne, a rancher from Spur Lake Ranch, to bring Baca back to the Justice for questioning relating to what the Justice considered murder. After Baca refused to come out of the adobe jail, Hearne broke down the door and ordered Baca to come out with his hands up. Soon after that, shots volleyed from the jail and hit Hearne in the stomach, resulting in his death.\n\nA standoff with the cowboys ensued. The number of cowboys that gathered has been disputed, with villagers at the scene reporting about forty present while Baca himself later claimed there had been at least eighty. Allegedly, the cowboys fired more than 4,000 shots into the house, until the adobe building was full of holes. Incredibly, not one of the bullets struck Baca. (The floor of the home is said to have been slightly lower than ground level; thus Baca was able to escape injury.)\n\nDuring the siege, Baca shot and killed four of his attackers and wounded eight others. After about 33 hours and roughly 4,000 rounds of open fire, the battle ended when Francisquito Naranjo persuaded Baca to surrender. In May 1885, Baca was charged with murder for the death of John Slaughter's foreman and Bert Hearne and was jailed awaiting trial. In August 1885, Baca was acquitted after the door of Armijo’s house was entered as evidence. It had more than 400 bullet holes in it. The incident became known as the Frisco shootout. Purportedly, Baca's defense attorney had false documentation to prove Baca's legal deputization because Baca's biography suggests he deputized himself just before the arrest of Charlie McCarty.\n\nBaca officially became the sheriff of Socorro County and secured indictments for the arrest of the area's lawbreakers. Instead of ordering his deputies to pursue the wanted men, he sent each of the accused a letter. It said, \"I have a warrant here for your arrest. Please come in by March 15 and give yourself up. If you don’t, I’ll know you intend to resist arrest, and I will feel justified in shooting you on sight when I come after you.\" Most of the offenders turned themselves in voluntarily.\n\nIn 1888, Baca became a U.S. Marshal. He served for two years and then began studying law. In December 1894, he was admitted to the bar by Judge A.A. Freeman and briefly joined Freeman's Socorro law firm in February 1895. He practiced law on San Antonio Street in El Paso between 1902 and 1904.\n\nBaca held a succession of public offices, including county clerk, mayor and school superintendent of Socorro County and district attorney for Socorro and Sierra counties. In his book \"The Shooters\", historian Leon Metz writes that “most reports say he was the best peace officer Socorro ever had.”\n\nFrom 1913 to 1916, Baca served as the official U.S. representative of Victoriano Huerta's government during the Mexican Revolution. In April 1915, Baca was charged with criminal conspiracy for allegedly masterminding the November 1914 escape of Mexican general José Inés Salazar from the Albuquerque jail. Successfully defended by the New Mexican lawyer and politician Octaviano Larrazolo, Baca's reputation grew among Southwestern residents.\n\nWhen New Mexico became a state in 1912, Baca unsuccessfully ran for Congress as a Republican. Nevertheless, he remained a valued political figure because of his ability to turn out the vote among the Hispanic population. Working at times as a private detective, Baca also took a job as a bouncer in a casino across the border in Ciudad Juárez, Mexico.\n\nBaca worked closely with New Mexico’s longtime Senator Bronson Cutting as a political investigator and wrote a weekly column in Spanish praising Cutting’s work on behalf of local Hispanics. Baca considered running for governor despite his declining health, but he failed to secure the Democratic Party’s nomination for district attorney in 1944.\n\nMetz, his biographer, wrote: “Elfego was, and is, controversial. He drank too much; talked too much ... he had a weakness for wild women. He was often arrogant and, of course, he showed no compunction about killing people.” On his 75th birthday, Baca told the \"Albuquerque Tribune\" that as a lawyer he had defended 30 people charged with murder and that only one went to the penitentiary.\n\nIn July 1936, several years before his death, Janet Smith conducted an interview with Elfego Baca. Her notes can be found in the Library of Congress, Manuscript Division, WPA Federal Writers’ Project Collection. Baca told Smith, “I never wanted to kill anybody, but if a man had it in his mind to kill me, I made it my business to get him first.”\n\nAnother legend says that Baca stole a pistol from Pancho Villa and the angry Villa put a price of $30,000 on Baca’s head.\n\nOne often-told story says that once when he was practicing law in Albuquerque, Baca received a telegram from a client in El Paso, Texas. \"Need you at once,\" it said. \"Have just been charged with murder,\" to which Baca is supposed to have responded with a telegram saying, \"Leaving at once with three eyewitnesses.\"\n\nIn the late 1950s, Walt Disney turned Baca into the first Hispanic popular culture hero in the United States, on television miniseries, in six comic books, in a feature film, and in related merchandising. However, Disney deliberately avoided ethnic tension by presenting Baca as a generalized Western hero, portraying a standard hero similar to Davy Crockett, in Hispanic dress. \n\nStarting in October 1958, Walt Disney Studios released a 10-part television serial entitled \"The Nine Lives of Elfego Baca\" starring Robert Loggia in the title role. The serial aired as part of \"Walt Disney Presents\" from October 3, 1958 to March 25, 1960.\n\nDisney took significant care to depict the famous siege in as authentic a manner as possible, given the known details. Among those who appeared in the series were Skip Homeier, Raymond Bailey, and I. Stanford Jolley. Episodes of the series were later edited into a 1962 movie titled \"Elfego Baca: Six Gun Law\". The theme song's tag line was, \"And the legend was that / Like \"el gato\", \"the cat\" / Nine lives had Elfego Baca.\"\n\nIn 1966, the film \"\" was released. It was directed by Christian Nyby and starred Robert Loggia as Elfego Baca. The film premiered in theaters in West Germany on May 20, 1966 and was later broadcast on American television with the title \"Elfego Baca: Attorney at Law\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2291689", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291689", "title": "A Pirate Looks at Fifty", "text": "A Pirate Looks at Fifty\n\nA Pirate Looks at Fifty is the autobiography of the singer and songwriter Jimmy Buffett, revolving around the singer's fiftieth birthday. The book was released on June 3, 1998.\n\nBuffett chronicles important happenings up to his fiftieth (the beginnings of his career, his plane crash, etc.) and his birthday celebrations - plane hopping in South America and the Caribbean.\n\nThe book headed the \"New York Times Bestseller List\" for non-fiction in June 1998, making him the sixth author in that list's history to have reached No. 1 on both the fiction and non-fiction lists.\n"}
{"id": "2291691", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291691", "title": "Instant Death", "text": "Instant Death\n\nInstant Death may refer to:\n"}
{"id": "2291715", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291715", "title": "Adam Schiff (Law &amp; Order)", "text": "Adam Schiff (Law &amp; Order)\n\nAdam Schiff is a fictional character on the TV drama series \"Law & Order\". He was played by Steven Hill from 1990 to 2000. Schiff was one of the original main characters of the series and appeared in every episode of the first 10 seasons except for \"Everybody's Favorite Bagman\", which was produced before Hill joined the cast, and the season-seven episode \"D-Girl\". He appeared in 229 episodes (228 episodes of \"Law & Order\" and the \"\" episode \"Entitled\"), and was the last original character to leave the show's main cast.\n\nSchiff is District Attorney of New York County, and a graduate of Columbia University, where he served on the \"Law Review\". He began his career as an ADA in 1973. He is a pragmatic Democrat of faintly liberal stripe, but regardless of political inclinations, he is never perturbed by his critics nor by uncooperative judges. Political persuasions sometimes cloud his decisions with regard to certain cases such as the death penalty; however, he has moral objections to capital punishment, having written a brief protesting it in 1971, but is not averse to seeking it against a defendant if voters want such a sentence carried out. He is also pro-choice.\n\nWhile he is often stern and unforgiving in his professional conduct, he has amicable relationships with his assistants. He is closest to Benjamin Stone (Michael Moriarty), and is saddened to see him resign when a witness he is trying to protect is murdered. His relationship with Stone's successor, Jack McCoy (Sam Waterston), is more problematic, as McCoy is more ruthless and unconventional, and his habitual bending of trial rules occasionally garners Schiff bad publicity. However, the two eventually grow to like and respect each other.\n\nHe has many friends among New York's elite, including powerful politicians, judges, and businessmen. Over the show's run, however, many of these friends prove themselves to be either corrupt or hiding secrets. The politician who first asked that he run for district attorney, Edward Vogel (George Martin), later tries to use their relationship to quash the prosecution of his son's murderer to avoid having his son's homosexuality revealed. In another case, one of his closest friends, Judge Edgar Hynes (Louis Zorich), commits suicide after being caught taking bribes. Another, Carl Anderton (Robert Vaughn), a high-powered CEO, is discovered to be suffering from bipolar disorder and attempts to arrange an unjust punishment for his similarly affected grandson Terence (Sam Huntington), who killed his half-sister during a manic phase, to hide his own condition. The once solid friendship destroyed, Anderton seeks vengeance and backs Schiff's opponent Gary Feldman (Cliff Gorman) in a primary election, although Schiff is subsequently reelected.\n\nIn 1997, Schiff's wife has a stroke that puts her in a vegetative state. She dies after he elects to have her taken off life support. Their son Josh is mentioned in several episodes, as are Josh's own wife and son, but he never appears on screen.\n\nSchiff is a fan of the Boston Red Sox and Columbia Lions football.\n\nIn 2000, the Schiff character was written out of the show to accommodate Hill's resignation. Within the story arc of the show, Schiff leaves the DA's office to accept a role in coordinating commemorations of the Holocaust Project. He goes on to work with Simon Wiesenthal. He is succeeded by Nora Lewin (Dianne Wiest).\n\nAfter McCoy becomes the district attorney in 2007, he commented that he now understands why Schiff always seemed to be in a bad mood.\n\nIn 2009, Schiff is said to be in Africa with former President Jimmy Carter, attempting to get into Zimbabwe. While in Africa, he sees an article about McCoy's election campaign on the Internet and lends him his support.\n\nThe character of Adam Schiff is loosely based upon long-serving New York County, Manhattan District Attorney Robert Morgenthau.\n"}
{"id": "2291716", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291716", "title": "Gyeongju University", "text": "Gyeongju University\n\nGyeongju University (originally Korea Tourism University) is a privately run, 4-year university located in Gyeongju, North Gyeongsang province, South Korea.\n\nEstablished in 1988 as Korea Tourism University, Gyeongju University originally consisted of five departments: the Department of Tourism Business Administration, the Department of Tourism and Public Administration, the Department of Tourism Development, the Department of Cultural Assets and The Department of English and Tourism. The university expanded in later years to include several other departments, as well as a graduate school (founded in 1995). In 1993, the university changed its name to its current one.\n\nIn September 2013, the university was one of thirty-five private colleges and universities that were cut off from all government aid and prohibited from participating in any federally funded research. The cuts were done at least in part as a response to the fast-approaching sharp decline in college-age students. The schools designated were those constituting the lowest scoring schools based on an eight-factor evaluation.\n\nAlthough tourism remains a major focus of the university, Gyeongju University has also made efforts to develop and promote programs in high-tech fields such as information technology and computer science. In addition, the school's continuing education center gives local residents the opportunity to further their education in various fields. Like most universities in Korea, the academic year begins in February–June (1st Semester) and ends in September to December (2nd Term), with a summer and winter vacation between semesters.\n\nThe campus of Gyeongju University is situated on the slopes of Mt. Sondo in the western outskirts of Gyeongju. Although many of the students commute to and from the school from their homes in surrounding areas, the opening of a student dormitory in 2004 gave students the chance to live on campus. The university holds two festivals yearly for the students and members of the community: a school festival, typically held in the spring, and a sports festival held in the autumn.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2291720", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291720", "title": "Sonya Dorman", "text": "Sonya Dorman\n\nSonya Dorman (April 6, 1924 – February 14, 2005) was the working name of Sonya Dorman Hess. She was born in New York City in 1924 and died in Taos, New Mexico on February 14, 2005 at the age of 80.\n\nShe is perhaps best known outside of the world of science fiction as a poet. One of her poems, however, \"Corruption of Metals\", received honors within science fiction circles by winning the Rhysling Award of the Science Fiction Poetry Association. Her best-known work of science fiction is the story \"When I Was Miss Dow\", which has been reprinted numerous times and received a James Tiptree, Jr. retrospective award nomination.\n\nShe also appeared in Harlan Ellison's anthology \"Dangerous Visions\", with the story \"Go, Go, Go, Said the Bird.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2291723", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291723", "title": "Grab", "text": "Grab\n\nGrab may refer to:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2291733", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291733", "title": "Canyon del Oro High School", "text": "Canyon del Oro High School\n\nCanyon del Oro High School (CDO) is a comprehensive public high school in Oro Valley, Arizona, located north of Tucson at the base of Pusch Ridge. Established as a high school in 1964, CDO is one of three high schools of Amphitheater Public Schools and serves about 1,600 students in grades 9–12. The school name originates from the remote Canyon del Oro (Spanish for \"Canyon of Gold\") in the nearby Santa Catalina Mountains north of Tucson. The school mascot is the Dorado (from the Legend of El Dorado), a mythical Latin American warrior, and the school colors are forest green and gold. The Dorado mascot was originally designed by former art teacher Diane Redhair in the mid-1960s.\n\nCDO is primarily known for its academic program and the notable number of Major League Baseball players the school has produced in recent decades. CDO is statistically one of the highest achieving schools in Arizona, both academically and athletically. In 2007, 2010, and again in 2011, \"Newsweek Magazine\" rated CDO in the top 5% of public schools in the U.S., one of a handful of schools in Arizona included on the list. In 2011, \"Newsweek\" ranked CDO No. 408 in its list of top public schools in the U.S. (top 1.5 percent nationally). From 2005 to the present, CDO has consistently been academically classified as \"Excelling\" by the Arizona Department of Education (top 10 percent in Arizona). Between 2000 and 2010, CDO has graduated 42 National Merit Scholarship Semifinalists. CDO is also home to the 2011 Arizona Academic Decathlon State Champions, with the team finishing 5th in the National Academic Decathlon competition. The team placed as State Champion in 2009, finishing 4th in the National Academic Decathlon, State Runner-Up in 2007, 2008, and 2010, and was State Champion in 2006, finishing 5th in the National Academic Decathlon. CDO is also ranked 6th in Arizona for the most all-time state championships in 4A & 5A (large school) team sports as of 2006 (\"Arizona Interscholastic Association\").\n\n\nThe dramatic population growth in the Amphitheater School District during the 1950s placed increasing demands on the district's existing schools. Enrollment reached capacity at the district's sole high school, Amphitheater High School, in the late 1950s. As a result, District Superintendent Marion Donaldson developed a bond proposal in June 1959 that included the purchase of a second high school site in the district. Voters approved the $1.9 million bonds ($12.8 million in 2006) by a 4 to 1 margin. Population growth in the area north of the Rillito River and Tucson was rapidly expanding, and the original purchased for the second high school was then determined to initially serve a middle school population as well. Another bond issue was proposed for the construction of Canyon del Oro School in June 1961, with $1.4 million ($9.2 million in 2006) for the first phase of the school, and $2.3 million ($15.3 million in 2006) for expansion of the school. Voters again approved the bonds by a 3 to 1 margin (\"Amphitheater\" by Peyton Reavis, 1981).\n\nCanyon del Oro School opened as a junior high school in the fall of 1962 with only a seventh grade class. The campus was only a few buildings with a large grass courtyard accessed by Calle Concordia, which was then only a small dirt road. Land values north of Tucson were beginning to appreciate through the 1950s, and many residents of the Amphitheater School District expressed concern that the site of the school in the foothills of the Santa Catalina Mountains was too costly (\"Amphitheater\" by Peyton Reavis, 1981).\n\nThe school added a new grade level each year, and Canyon del Oro High School was established in the fall of 1964 with a ninth grade class. CDO was formally declared a high school by the Arizona on July 1, 1965, serving grades 9–10, with only a few hundred students. Canyon del Oro Junior High School would continue operation on the same campus as a distinct school, serving grades 7–8 until 1974, when L.W. Cross Junior High School was established on a separate campus to accommodate grades 7–8.\n\nConstruction continued on the high school campus, and CDO gained recognition as a school of privilege with state-of-the-art facilities, and drew students from the most affluent sections of the Tucson area. The campus was designed in a Modernist style by architects Bernard Friedman and Fred Jobusch (Friedman & Jobusch) to be completed in phases. Friedman & Jobusch also designed the contemporary Main Library at the University of Arizona in 1976.\n\nThe Modernist style incorporated into the Canyon del Oro campus design in the early 1960s is a significant example of the Modernist movement that dominated in the U.S. following World War II. The Canyon del Oro campus represents a shift in 20th-century American architecture when Modernism was favored over traditional styles in an effort to project American progress. The gymnasium at the school featured a four-sided score board suspended above the basketball court (\"Amphitheater\" by Peyton Reavis, 1981).\n\nThe CDO campus expanded with the gradual population increase north of Tucson, and the first graduating class was in the spring of 1968. New construction occurred through the late 1990s, adding technology and laboratory science facilities for chemistry, physics, and biology. A second gymnasium was completed in the 1970s, along with an expanded library, fine arts complex, and bookstore. As of 2007, the campus included 21 buildings on .\n\nAmong the most notable families whose children attended CDO during the 1960s and 1970s was the Udall family. Mo Udall represented much of southern Arizona in the U.S. House of Representatives at the time, and his brother Stewart Udall served as president of the Amphitheater School Board before later serving as Secretary of the Interior under U.S. Presidents John F. Kennedy and Lyndon B. Johnson.\n\nFrom the 1960s through the 1980s, CDO became a dominating presence in golf and tennis, capturing the respective state titles nearly each year. CDO also won back-to-back state championships in both basketball and football in the late 1970s. The CDO girls' basketball team registered an undefeated 28–0 record in 1987, capturing the 5A State title (\"Arizona Interscholastic Association\").\n\nAs the Oro Valley area experienced significant population growth in the 1990s, enrollment at CDO increased as well. At its enrollment peak, CDO served a student population of nearly 3,100 in 2001. CDO had the highest enrollment of any high school in southern Arizona, and was one of the largest schools in the state. The growth and desirability of Oro Valley (the fastest growing municipality in Arizona for several years in the 1990s), was often credited by the media to CDO and the educational reputation the school established (\"Arizona Daily Star\"). In 2001, CDO received relief as the Amphitheater School District opened Ironwood Ridge, the district's third high school, in northwestern Oro Valley.\n\nCanyon del Oro continues to register among the highest standardized test scores in Arizona, and a notable number of National Merit Scholars. CDO is one of the few high schools consistently designated as \"Excelling\" (the highest academic distinction) by the Arizona Department of Education. Canyon del Oro High School celebrated its 50th anniversary of establishment in the fall of 2014.\n\nOn September 21st, 1999, 1500 students (roughly half the student population) walked out of classes in protest of low teacher pay. The students walked nearly 8 miles to the Amphitheater District offices at 701 W. Wetmore Rd. In solidarity, many of the teachers chose not to mark students absent from classes.\n\nThroughout CDO's history, the school has continually ranked among the top high schools in Arizona in standardized test administrations and academic performance evaluations by the Arizona Department of Education. As a comprehensive institution, the course selection at CDO is extensive. The school offers 17 Advanced Placement courses, among the widest variety available. \nCDO offers:\n\n\nOver 90% of the school's graduates seek post-secondary education. Half (49.5%) of CDO faculty have attained a master's degree or a PhD. As for faculty recognition, Librarian Beth Malapanes was selected Circle K/UA Athletics/KOLD Teacher of the Year for the Tucson area in 2007. In 2006, family and consumer sciences teacher Patti Schmalzel was also selected Circle K/UA Athletics/KOLD Teacher of the Year for the Tucson area. Further, mathematics teacher Chris Yetman was named an \"Ambassador for Excellence\" by the Arizona Educational Foundation as a top 5 finalist for Arizona Teacher of the Year in 2005. Canyon del Oro is under accreditation by the North Central Association.\n\nCDO has graduated among the highest number of National Merit Scholars in Arizona. Scholars have been represented in every graduating class since the school's first class in 1968, with the exception of two years (2000 & 2002). In 2006 alone, the school had seven National Merit Finalists. The school has also promoted several Flinn Scholars of the Flinn Foundation into the state's public universities.\n\nAchievement rates on Advanced Placement exams, particularly in the laboratory sciences and mathematics, have historically far exceeded the national average. The school's journalism department has been recognized by the Interscholastic Press Association for its school newspaper, \"The Palantir\", and the yearbook, \"Años de Oro\". Since the school opened in the 1960s, CDO has also had a notable history in chess, with teams continually ranked nationally.\n\nCanyon del Oro offers twelve different CTE programs for the students to participate in. The CTE courses at CDO are dedicated to providing a hands-on experience for all students and the primary focus of the CTE programs is to prepare students for college and career readiness by using 21st century skills. CTE is preparing students of all ages to help drive America's success and vitality. Further, it is creating an educational environment that integrates core academics with real-world relevance. CTE is leading this change, transforming expectations and making a difference for students, for secondary and postsecondary schools, for businesses and industry—for America.\nCDO offers:\n\nIn the 2012–13 school year, CDO began offering the IB Diploma Programme to its students. CDO is now a full-fledged IB School.\n\nCDO offers Russian and Mandarin Chinese classes, as well as many other courses through JTED programs and Pima Community College.\n\nThe extracurricular activities offered at CDO are numerous and varied. There are chapters of national organizations such as the National Honor Society and clubs founded by CDO students such as Science Explorer, in which students promote science through practical activities in the local community. Service organizations such as Key Club coexist alongside recreational clubs.\n\nCompeting in the 5A Division for 25 years, the school captured several hundred championship titles (region and state). Such championships include 7 state crowns in baseball (most recently a 5A title in 2002, and a 4A-I title in 2009), 9 state titles in softball (most recently a 4A title in 2017, and 4A-I titles in 2007, 2008, 2009, 2011 and 2012), 11 team state titles in boys' tennis, 6 team state titles in girls' tennis, 9 team state titles in boys' golf (most recently a Division II title in 2011), and 4 team state titles in girls' track and field (most recently a 4A-I title in 2011). Due to recent downsizing from the opening of a new high school, CDO presently competes in the Arizona Interscholastic Association 4A Sonoran Conference, Division I (\"Arizona Interscholastic Association\").\n\nAfter winning back-to-back state championships in 1976 and 1977, the Canyon del Oro football program experienced difficulty repeating such success. CDO began to revamp its football program in the 2000 season resulting in a 6–4 overall record in 5A play. The following year CDO recorded a 7–3 regular season, falling to perennial powerhouse Mesa Mountain View in the opening round of the 5A state playoffs. After dropping to 4A due to an enrollment decline, CDO's football program has experienced marked recent success, including several berths in the state playoffs. In 2007 CDO finished a 9–1 regular season, the sole loss to Glendale Cactus 36–34. Victories followed over Cienega High School, Prescott High School, and Peoria High School in the opening, quarterfinal, and semifinal rounds of the 4A state playoffs. CDO reached the 4A State Championship, ultimately losing to the defending State Champion, Scottsdale Saguaro High School, 23–21 after a field goal by the Sabercats with two seconds remaining in play.\n\nIn 2009, CDO finished 10–0 in the regular season (Division 4A-I), including an impressive win over three-time defending State Champion Saguaro Sabercats 44–0, ending their 37-game winning streak. In the 2009 Division 4A-I playoffs, the top-seeded Dorados went on to beat the McClintock Chargers (49–26), the Apollo Hawks (63–35), and the Cienega Bobcats (48–16) to get them into the state championship game. In that game, held at Arizona Stadium in Tucson, Arizona on December 5, 2009, the Canyon del Oro Dorados defeated the Sabino Sabercats (also of Tucson) 40–0 to win the State Championship for the first time since 1977. Star running back Ka'Deem Carey rushed 26 times for and scored 5 touchdowns. He also threw for a touchdown in the third quarter to cap off a perfect 14–0 season for the Dorados. The win secured the 3rd state championship for CDO.\n\nIn 2010, CDO finished the season with a 13–1 record, and as State Runner-Up behind Saguaro High School of Scottsdale. The team's only loss in the State Championship snapped the school's 27-game winning streak.\n\nCanyon del Oro baseball is well known for its prominence in Arizona and the U.S. CDO's most recent baseball state titles include 1997, 2000, 2002, 2009 and 2015. CDO baseball has produced a significant number of players drafted by Major League Baseball. The 2002 State Championship team merits special distinction, as it was ranked 12th, out of more than 1,000 other high schools, nationally by USA Today. This team finished with a record of 27–6, never losing a home game (\"Arizona Interscholastic Association\"). The 5A State Championship baseball team finished the 1997 season ranked 25th nationally by \"USA Today\".\n\nIn 2009, CDO won the 4A-I State Championship, topping No. 1 seed Glendale Cactus with a score of 15–5, and finishing the season with a 24–7 record. The title marks the 7th baseball state championship at CDO.\n\nCanyon del Oro softball is a successful program as well, with nine state titles. The softball program has three 5A state titles (1992, 2001 and 2005), and has won the 2007, 2008, 2009, 2011, 2012, and 2017 4A Division state titles. The 2017 state championship team finished 33-2 and was ranked number one in the state of Arizona in the 4A Division. The 2009 state championship team finished the season with a 34–2 record. The 2008 state championship team finished the season with a 33–4 record, and ranked 5th nationally by \"USA Today\". The 2007 state championship team finished the season with a 33–3 record, ranked 2nd nationally by \"USA Today\". The team also ranked 14th in 2006, 18th in 2005, and 6th in 2001 in the \"USA Today\" national rankings. As of 2007, the CDO program had produced 24 Division I softball players, along with a 397–106 record since the program's first state title in 1992.\n\nRecently, boys' volleyball has been recognized nationally. CDO boys' volleyball won the Arizona 5A State title in 1996 and fielded one of the school's most successful teams in 2005. In 2005, the team compiled a record of 40–3, and despite losing the state title game, CDO was widely recognized as one of the premier boys' volleyball teams in the nation (\"Arizona Interscholastic Association\").\n\nBoys' soccer has also experienced recent success. The CDO team captured the school's first boys' soccer state championship in 2009, with a 2–1 win over Scottsdale Chaparral. The team finished State Runner-Up in 2007, losing to Rincon 3–2.\n\nCDO teams and individuals have won over 90 State Championships, and placed as the State Runner-Up over 40 times. CDO has also had 9 athletes medal in boys' golf, most recently in 2011. In 2011 the boys' cross country team won the Division II state title over runner-up Ironwood Ridge. This was the first state championship for boys' cross country in school history.\n\nIn 1993, the school won Arizona's Tony Komadina Award for its girls' athletic program and received the Overall Excellence Award for the highest achieving athletic program in Arizona seven times. CDO has won more 4A and 5A state championships than all other schools in southern Arizona, with the exception of the oldest, Tucson High School (\"Arizona Interscholastic Association\").\n\nBelow is a comprehensive table including all athletic state titles won by CDO teams. Canyon del Oro teams competed at the 3A equivalent level from fall 1966 to spring 1968, and the 4A equivalent level from fall 1968 to spring 1980. Between fall 1980 and spring 2005, CDO teams competed at the 5A level, resuming 4A competition from fall 2005 to 2009. The AIA reclassified class 4A-I as Division II in 2010.\n\nCanyon del Oro is home to one of the top performing Academic Decathlon teams in Arizona. The CDO team is a perennial powerhouse in the region, defeating other academically reputable schools in the area nearly every year. As of 2010, the team had captured nine consecutive region titles.\n\nThe CDO team placed 4th in the Arizona Academic Decathlon State Competition in 2002, 3rd in the state in 2003, State Runner-Up in 2004, and 3rd in the state in 2005. In 2006 the team became the Arizona Academic Decathlon State Champions, outscoring defending state champs Mesa Mountain View 46,482 points to 46,406 points. CDO represented Arizona in the National competition, placing 5th. In 2007, the team scored 45,667 points, placing second in the state behind Mesa Mountain View with 47,402 points. In 2008, the team scored 46,600 points, placing second in the state for the second consecutive year.\n\nIn 2009, CDO once again became the Arizona Academic Decathlon State Champions, outscoring Mesa Red Mountain 47,055.5 points to 44,052.2 points. The CDO team placed 4th in the U.S. Academic Decathlon National Competition, in representing Arizona, with 47,972.3 points. CDO placed behind Moorpark High School of California (51,289.5 points), Waukesha West High School of Wisconsin (50,979.9 points), and Burke High School of Nebraska (48,064.0 points).\n\nIn 2010, CDO placed as State Runner-Up behind Mesa Mountain View, with the team scoring 47,892.4 points.\n\nIn 2011, CDO was the State Champion in Arizona, and finished 5th in the National Competition with 46,522.7 points.\n\nIn 2012, CDO placed as State Runner-Up behind Mesa Mountain View, with the team scoring 44,962 points.\n\nIn 2013, CDO placed as State Runner-Up behind Red Mountain. At the National Competition, the team placed 9th overall.\n\nCDO has an active Science Olympiad program, which has placed well in the state tournament in years past. This program is run by students and the AP Biology teacher, Dr. Zeiher. Other science teachers are becoming involved in the success of this program, notably Mrs. Christman of the chemistry department. Students create functioning robots and helicopters, as well as utilize high-tech protein modeling programs. In 2009, the team was Rookie of the Year at the state competition. The CDO team placed second in robotics during the state competition of 2011, but students aim to surpass this in years to come.\n\nThe Future Problem Solving Team won first place in the state competition in 2001. It also won second place in the state competition and sixth place in the national competition in 2006.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe attendance boundaries of Canyon del Oro encompass segments of the communities of Oro Valley, Casas Adobes, and Catalina Foothills.\n\nThe northern boundary roughly follows the Cañada del Oro and East/West Lambert Lane. The eastern boundary is defined by Catalina State Park and the Coronado National Forest/Pusch Ridge Wilderness Area. The southern boundary is East/West Orange Grove Road from North Shannon Road east to North First Avenue. Between North First Avenue and the North Alvernon Road parallel, East Ina Road is the southern boundary (including the neighborhoods of Pima Canyon Estates and Cobblestone Estates). The western boundary is North Shannon Road.\n\nElementary schools in the Canyon del Oro attendance area include Marion Donaldson, Winifred Harelson, Mesa Verde, and Copper Creek. L.W. Cross Middle School is the only middle school feeding into Canyon del Oro.\n\nCDO opened in the fall of 1962 with a limited enrollment of only grade 7, and by 1965 the school had a high school enrollment of 283 students (specifically grades 9–10.) In its first year as a four-year high school with grades 9–12, CDO had an enrollment of 560 students. Enrollment gradually increased, exceeding 1,000 students in 1972, 2,000 students in 1987, and 3,000 students in the fall of 2000. The largest enrollment was 3,080 in 2000 (when CDO was the 6th largest high school in Arizona), and declined to 1,700 in 2005 due to the establishment of a new high school (Ironwood Ridge High School) in the fall of 2001. Due to open enrollment, CDO has sustained enrollment above 1,800 in recent years (\"Arizona Interscholastic Association\").\n\n"}
{"id": "2291739", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291739", "title": "Global dimension", "text": "Global dimension\n\nIn ring theory and homological algebra, the global dimension (or global homological dimension; sometimes just called homological dimension) of a ring \"A\" denoted gl dim \"A\", is a non-negative integer or infinity which is a homological invariant of the ring. It is defined to be the supremum of the set of projective dimensions of all \"A\"-modules. Global dimension is an important technical notion in the dimension theory of Noetherian rings. By a theorem of Jean-Pierre Serre, global dimension can be used to characterize within the class of commutative Noetherian local rings those rings which are regular. Their global dimension coincides with the Krull dimension, whose definition is module-theoretic.\n\nWhen the ring \"A\" is noncommutative, one initially has to consider two versions of this notion, right global dimension that arises from consideration of the right \"A\"-modules, and left global dimension that arises from consideration of the left \"A\"-modules. For an arbitrary ring \"A\" the right and left global dimensions may differ. However, if \"A\" is a Noetherian ring, both of these dimensions turn out to be equal to \"weak global dimension\", whose definition is left-right symmetric. Therefore, for noncommutative Noetherian rings, these two versions coincide and one is justified in talking about the global dimension.\n\nLet \"A\" = K[\"x\"...,\"x\"] be the ring of polynomials in \"n\" variables over a field K. Then the global dimension of \"A\" is equal to \"n\". This statement goes back to David Hilbert's foundational work on homological properties of polynomial rings, see Hilbert's syzygy theorem. More generally, if \"R\" is a Noetherian ring of finite global dimension \"k\" and \"A\" = \"R\"[x] is a ring of polynomials in one variable over \"R\" then the global dimension of \"A\" is equal to \"k\" + 1.\n\nThe first Weyl algebra \"A\" is a noncommutative Noetherian domain of global dimension one.\n\nA ring has global dimension zero if and only if it is semisimple. The global dimension of a ring \"A\" is less than or equal to one if and only if \"A\" is hereditary. In particular, a commutative principal ideal domain which is not a field has global dimension one.\n\n\nThe right global dimension of a ring \"A\" can be alternatively defined as:\n\nThe left global dimension of \"A\" has analogous characterizations obtained by replacing \"right\" with \"left\" in the above list.\n\nSerre proved that a commutative Noetherian local ring \"A\" is regular if and only if it has finite global dimension, in which case the global dimension coincides with the Krull dimension of \"A\". This theorem opened the door to application of homological methods to commutative algebra.\n\n"}
{"id": "2291743", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291743", "title": "Mount Washington, Cincinnati", "text": "Mount Washington, Cincinnati\n\nMount Washington is a diverse, inclusive neighborhood on the east side of Cincinnati, Ohio, United States. It is located about ten minutes east of Downtown via Columbia Parkway and Beechmont Avenue, or a slightly longer drive via Riverside Drive (formerly Eastern Avenue) and Kellogg Avenue, to Salem Avenue and up Sutton Avenue or Beacon Street. As one of Cincinnati's 52 neighborhoods, Mount Washington lies within the city corporation limits, and borders the neighborhoods of California, Linwood, and the East End, as well as unincorporated Anderson Township, Hamilton County, Ohio. It is served by the 24, 30X, and 81X Metro bus routes.\n\nThe population was 11,711 at the 2010 census.\n\nMount Washington was laid out in 1846 and received its city rights in 1867. The community was annexed by the City of Cincinnati in 1911.\n\nMount Washington is home to numerous small businesses, many of them located along Beechmont Avenue / Ohio State Route 125 in the main neighborhood business district, \"The Mount Washington Water Tower District\" is sometimes referred to as \"Uptown\" as a means of distinguishing it from other business districts, including Downtown Cincinnati and the two other districts in Mount Washington.\n\nBusinesses include Water Tower Fine Wines (a retail wine shop with weekly tastings and appetizers), Ramundo's Pizza, Sweets & Meats BBQ (a locally owned and award-winning take out restaurant), Mt. Washington Creamy Whip & Bakery (seasonal), Mt. Washington Jewelry, and Mr. Lock locksmith, as well as local outlets of Wendy's, LaRosa's Pizza, PNC Bank, Fifth Third Bank, Walgreens, and Kroger (headquartered in Cincinnati). Gold Star Chili was started in Mount Washington with the purchase of Hamburger Heaven in 1965, although the original location no longer exists. A recipe for Cincinnati chili was included in the sale.\n\nMt. Washington Community Council (MWCC) is the official representative voice of the neighborhood to the City of Cincinnati. MWCC ensures that neighborhood development responds to the needs and goals of its citizens. MWCC is also a vehicle for communication and engagement. Public meetings are held the third Wednesday of every month at the Mt. Washington Recreation Center.\n\nThe Mt. Washington Community Urban Redevelopment Corporation represents the member businesses in the neighborhood. Mt. Washington is also served by an active American Legion, Post 484, and Masonic Lodge, Yeatman Lodge #162\n\nBeechmont Avenue in western Mount Washington, prior to the 2002-2003 widening, featured reversible lanes. When the street was widened, two additional lanes were added between the western Corporation Line and Wasigo Drive (to create a dual turn lane), with one additional lane between Wasigo Drive and Corbly Street. Sidewalks, trees and curbs were also added along the route as well as a bike lane into the business district.\n\nThree grade schools are located in Mount Washington:\n\nThe Archbishop McNicholas High School (Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Cincinnati) is also located in Mount Washington, across from Guardian Angels.\n\nMount Washington is also home to the Athenaeum of Ohio (Mt. St. Mary's Seminary of the West), located at the eastern gateway to Mount Washington, the intersection of Beechmont Avenue and Burney Lane. The campus is owned by the Archdiocese of Cincinnati and is known for its architecture. Many of the records for the Archdiocese of Cincinnati are located at the campus library. It is common to see the Franciscan Monks walking or riding their bikes, barefoot, throughout the neighborhood.\n\nCincinnati Park Board operates the Stanbery Park on Oxford Avenue between Corbly Street and Crestview Place. This park is named after Brigadier General Sanford B. Stanbery, who was the highest-ranking officer from Hamilton County in World War I. The Tudor-style Stanbery house used to be located on park grounds, but was demolished as part of a park improvement program.\n\nThe park facilities include a paved walking area, hiking trails, playground equipment, and a picnic shelter.\n\nMt. Washington Cemetery is located on Sutton Ave.\n\nThree large festivals are held throughout the year in Mt. Washington. Guardian Angels Church conducts a large church festival in the summer, complete with games, food, live music and gambling. The Pumpkin Chuck, produced by the Mt. Washington Community Council, is held the first Saturday after Halloween. The highlight of this festival is the three hand-built trebuchets, while launch pumpkins into the Stanbery Park ravine. The Holiday Walk, produced by MWCURC, is held the first Saturday after Thanksgiving. Businesses offer free activities and games for families, choirs from local schools perform, free carriage rides are offered, Santa takes pictures with children, and a ceremonial lighting of the Mt. Washington Water Tower ends the event. \n\nAn Independence Day parade is held each year, on a route going through the business district on Beechmont Ave. \n\nAdditionally, Sands Montessori has a large carnival held in the fall, and the American Legion Post 484 has a carnival the first weekend in August.\n\n"}
{"id": "2291759", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291759", "title": "Tuen Mun Government Secondary School", "text": "Tuen Mun Government Secondary School\n\nTuen Mun Government Secondary School (TMGSS/TMS, ) is a secondary school in Tuen Mun, Hong Kong founded by the Hong Kong Government]]. Located at Castle Peak Road near Castle Peak Bay, the school offers classes and uses English as the medium of instruction. It was founded in 1982 and was the first government school in Tuen Mun. Tuen Mun Government Primary School is a feeder school to TMGSS. Hong Kong Christian Service Pui Oi School and Shenzhen Futian Middle School are partner schools of TMGSS.\n\nTuen Mun Government Secondary School has 31 classes in total, with 5 classes each in S.1 to S.5 and 3 classes in S.6. Due to participation in the voluntary class reduction scheme, the number of classes in each level is reduced to 4 starting from year 2011/12. During the transition period of the implementation of the new senior secondary curriculum, the school will have altogether 32 classes(4 in S.1, 5 in S.1 to S.6, 3 in S.7) in year 11/12, which is the highest since its foundation.\n\nThe School provides 11 elective subjects in New Senior Secondary Curriculum(NSS) and forms school cluster with 3 secondary schools in Tuen Mun District to provide 3 more subjects. There are altogether 14 subjects available.\n\nThe school offers places for students from cluster schools in the following subjects: Health Management & Social Care, Tourism & Hospitality Studies, Chinese History. Students can select 2 to 3 subjects. Those taking 3 electives (i.e.3X) should choose one subject from each group without repetition. Those taking 2 electives (i.e.2X) should choose one subject from group 2 and another one from group 1 or 3, and they must have English, Chinese and Mathematics(ECM) enrichment classes.\n\nStudents can also take Applied Learning (ApL) courses as one of the elective in S.5 and S.6. The school streams classes according to the choice of the subjects in group 2. The arrangements of elective subjects for the first two NSS school year are not the same. The school also provides mathematics extended module 2 (Algebra & Calculus) for students starting from S.5. The module 2 lessons occupy part of the normal mathematics lessons and a period of time after school.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2291764", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291764", "title": "Berrima, New South Wales", "text": "Berrima, New South Wales\n\nBerrima () is a historic village in the Southern Highlands of New South Wales, Australia, in Wingecarribee Shire. The village, once a major town, is located on the Old Hume Highway between Canberra and Sydney. It was previously known officially as the Town of Berrima. It is close to the three major towns of the Southern Highlands; Mittagong, Bowral and Moss Vale.\n\nThe name \"Berrima\" is believed to derive from an Aboriginal word meaning either \"southward\" or \"black swan\".\n\nThe area around Berrima was once occupied by the Dharawal Aborigines. They had been driven off or killed by the 1870s.\n\nThe region and Wingecarribee River was first visited by Europeans during the late 1790s, including a 1798 expedition led by an ex-convict, John Wilson. However, John and Hamilton Hume rediscovered the area in 1814. The area was explored by Charles Throsby in 1818. Runs were taken up soon after, including by one by Charles Throsby. Harper’s Mansion, which is on a hill overlooking the town, was built from 1829–1830. Bong Bong had been planned as a major town for the county but, as it was flood prone, the New South Wales surveyor-general Thomas Mitchell chose Berrima townsite on the road running south from Sydney to Goulburn with the intention that the town be the chief centre for southern New South Wales. The survey was conducted in 1830 and the town plan was approved in 1831. As well as its being an administrative centre, there were ambitions that the town might become a commercial and manufacturing centre, \"where the wool of Argyle and Camden might be made into cloth and the hide into leather\".\n\nThe courthouse (see below) was built between 1833 and 1838. The gaol (see below) was built from 1835 by convict labour and opened in 1839. The \"Surveyor General Inn\" was built in 1834. It has been continuously licensed since 1839 and its claim to being the earliest hotel rests on its continual licence and being in the original building. Berrima prospered as being at a point on the Old Hume Highway, and there were fourteen hotels in or near the town in the 1840s. However, because the construction of the railway bypassed the town, the population decreased — no new houses were built for a hundred years. In 1896, Sir Henry Parkes, premier of New South Wales, planted an oak tree near the post office.\n\nThere are many historic buildings in the town and the village as a whole is listed on the Register of the National Estate. Other notable buildings include the Holy Trinity Anglican Church designed by Edmund Blacket and built in 1849; and the St Francis Xavier Catholic Church built 1849–51 designed by Augustus Pugin, a notable British architect of Gothic-revival buildings. The Berrima Village Trust was established in 1963 to preserve historic buildings.\n\nBerrima was bypassed by a new section of the Hume Highway in March 1989.\n\nBerrima has a number of heritage-listed sites, including:\n\nBerrima Court House was built between 1836 and 1838. It was designed by the colonial architect Mortimer Lewis in a Roman style. Four Doric columns support a classical pediment. The building is now stylistically classified as Georgian. It is built of sandstone. A number of problems arose during construction, the first architect having resigned and a succession of three builders being contracted.\n\nThe first quarter-sessions were held at the court house in 1841, and the first trial by jury in the colony of New South Wales was held here. The assize courts were continued for only seven years. In 1850 the district court moved to Goulburn, south of Berrima. Minor courts continued at Berrima until 1873. Notable trials were of John Lynch, who was hanged for the murder of at least nine people, and of Lucretia Dunkley and her lover Martin Beech who were both hanged in 1843 for the murder of Dunkley’s husband. Their trial is simulated in the present-day museum courtroom with realistic manikins and an audio commentary. Dunkley was the only woman to be hanged at Berrima gaol.\n\nBerrima Gaol was built over five years with much work done by convicts in irons. Conditions at the gaol were harsh, prisoners spent most of their days in cells and the only light was through a small grate set in the door. In 1866 the gaol was renovated to the standards described by the prison reform movement for a \"model prison\". However, Berrima gaol had solitary confinement cells which measured 8 feet by 5 feet, some smaller, where it was intended that all prisoners spent one year. In 1877 a royal commission was held to investigate allegations of cruelty by the prison authorities but the complaints were not upheld.\n\nDuring World War I the army used Berrima Gaol as a German-prisoner internment camp. Most of the 329 internees were enemy aliens from shipping companies. There were German officers from Rabaul, German New Guinea (what is now Papua New Guinea) and also officers from the light cruiser SMS \"Emden\".\n\nThe correctional centre was used most recently as an all-female low-to-medium security prison. In the 2011 NSW State Budget, the Government announced that the centre would be closed, which took effect on 4 November 2011. The Centre is scheduled to re-open in September 2016.\n\nIn the 2016 Census, there were 666 people in Berrima. 73.8% of people were born in Australia and 85.1% of people only spoke English at home. The most common responses for religion were No Religion 29.8%, Anglican 25.9% and Catholic 17.1%.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2291765", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291765", "title": "Buff-throated woodcreeper", "text": "Buff-throated woodcreeper\n\nThe buff-throated woodcreeper (\"Xiphorhynchus guttatus\") is a resident passerine bird found in tropical South America in the Guiana Shield and disjunctly in the northern Atlantic Forest. It formerly included the cocoa woodcreeper and the Lafresnaye's woodcreeper as subspecies. Some authorities retain Lafresnaye's position as a subspecies of the buff-throated woodcreeper, but the resulting group is polyphyletic (\"see Systematics and evolution).\n\nWith a total length of , and a weight of c. 64 g, this woodcreeper is, together with Lafresnaye's woodcreeper, the largest member of the genus \"Xiphorhynchus\". The head, neck, mantle and chest are streaked buff, and the rest of the upperparts, wings and tail are rufous. The underparts are olive-brown. The bill is long, slightly decurved, and hooked at the tip. The upper mandible is dark grey, while the lower mainly is pale greyish-horn. The normal call is a loud \"chev-re chev-re\".\n\nBuff-throated woodcreepers are restricted to humid forest and woodland. The taxa in north-eastern South America (\"polystictus\" and \"connectens\") are generally the commonest large woodcreeper within their range, but the nominate taxon (\"X. g. guttatus\"), which is restricted to humid tropical Atlantic forest, has a fragmented population and is generally uncommon. They are insectivores which feed on ants and other insects and spiders. It feeds low in trees, usually alone, but groups will follow columns of army ants. The species builds a bark-lined nest in a tree hole or hollow stump and lays two white eggs.\n\nThe taxonomy is highly complex. The smaller cocoa woodcreeper (\"X. susurrans\") from Central America and northwestern South America was formerly included in this species, but is now normally considered to be distinct. Of the remaining taxa, the pale-billed and buff-streaked \"guttatoides\" group (incl. \"dorbignyanus\") and the dark-billed and whitish-streaked \"eytoni\" group (incl. \"vicinalis\" and \"gracilirostris\") have often been considered separate species, as the Lafresnaye's woodcreeper (\"X. guttatoides\") and the dusky-billed woodcreeper (\"X. eytoni\"). While visually very different, these two groups are now known to form a single clade (combined under a \"broad\" Lafresnaye's woodcreeper, \"X. guttatoides\") separate from the nominate group (\"guttatus\", \"polystictus\" and \"connectens\") of \"X. guttatus\", which instead is closer to \"X. susurrans\". Biogeography and molecular data suggest that the relationship between these subspecies and the taxa now included in \"X. guttatoides\" and \"X. susurrans\" deserves further study. Depending of the outcome of these studies, the buff-throated woodcreeper could be restricted to the southern coastal population, which is endangered by habitat fragmentation, making a change in conservation status necessary.\n\nThe most likely evolutionary scenario is that from lower Amazonia, the ancestors of Lafresnaye's woodcreeper spread west- and southwestwards to the Andes, and those of the buff-throated and cocoa woodcreeper downriver and then along the coast of northern South America, where \"X. susurrans\" then branched off as the northern lineage. Indeed, it may be that the trans-Andean forms of the latter may constitute yet another good species, Lawrence's woodcreeper.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2291769", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291769", "title": "Airlift (dredging device)", "text": "Airlift (dredging device)\n\nAn airlift is device based on a pipe, used in nautical archaeology to suck small objects, sand and mud from the sea bed and to transport the resulting debris upwards and away from its source. It is sometimes called a suction dredge. A water dredge or water eductor may be used for the same purpose.\n\nTypically, the airlift is constructed from a 3-metre to 10 metre long, 10 cm diameter pipe. A controllable compressed air supply vents into the inside, lower end of the pipe (The input end always being the lower end). Compressed air is injected into the pipe in one to three second bursts with an interval long enough to let the resulting bubble to rise to the higher, output end of the pipe. The bubble moves water through the pipe sucking debris from the lower end and depositing it from the upper end of the pipe. Ejected debris can be either cast off (as in simply removing overburden) or collected in a mesh cage for inspection (as more often is the case in nautical archaeology). It is often designed to be hand-operated by a diver.\n\nAirlift pumps are used by water utilities, farmers and others to extract water from deep wells. In such cases the pipes can be 30, 60 or more meters deep underground. Airlift pumps are governed by the physics of two-phase flow.\n\n"}
{"id": "2291771", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291771", "title": "The Succubus (South Park)", "text": "The Succubus (South Park)\n\n\"The Succubus\" is the third episode of the third season of the American animated television series \"South Park\", and the 34th episode of the series overall. It originally aired on Comedy Central in the United States on April 21, 1999.\n\nEric Cartman must go to the local eye doctor, whom he hates because the doctor always makes fun of his obesity by referring to him as \"Piggy\". Cartman is told that he has bad vision and has his eyes dilated; he is later given a pair of thick-rimmed glasses which are then stapled to his head so that he cannot take them off. Later, he and the other boys discover that Chef has quit his job at South Park Elementary and has been replaced by Mr. Derp, a cliché cartoon character (who may also be a parody of Pauly Shore), who tries (and fails) to win them over with his poor slapstick comedy gags. \n\nThey then find out that Chef has a new girlfriend, Veronica, (voiced by Michael Ann Young) who has caused his life to change from that of a free-spirited, soul-singing cafeteria chef to that of a mediocre office worker. She is also extremely fond of singing the love theme from \"The Poseidon Adventure\", \"The Morning After\" at inappropriate times. The boys believe that she is trying to steal Chef away from them and are dismayed when they discover that the two are planning to get married.\n\nNot wanting Chef to go too, the boys seek advice from Mr. Garrison, who suggests that Veronica is a succubus: a demoness sent from Hell to prey on and suck the life out of men. The boys go to warn Chef of this, but instead they meet his parents, who tell them about their frequent meetings with the Loch Ness Monster, claiming that the beast is stalking and constantly pestering them for a sum of \"about tree fiddy\" ($3.50). (This is a take on constant jokes mostly from black comedians, like Richard Pryor, about unusual people asking for money or food during hard times.)\n\nMeanwhile, a botched attempt at laser eye surgery leaves Cartman temporarily blinded. While the others mock him, Veronica comes to visit them. She manages to convince them that she is not a monster but, just as she is about to leave, suddenly takes on a demonic face, laughing maniacally and declaring that they cannot stop her from marrying Chef. The boys try to tell Chef of this at the rehearsal dinner, but he angrily shuts them out. They go back to Cartman's place to formulate a plan to stop the wedding.\n\nThe boys discover that a succubus controls the minds of men with a melody and that playing it backwards will vanquish it. They remember that Veronica always sings \"The Morning After\" and proceed to learn how to sing the song backwards. At the wedding, they play a tape of the song backwards while Stan and Kyle sing the words in reverse order. Veronica begins to lose her hold on her human form. When the tape gets jammed, she peels off her human disguise and reverts to her true shape—a bizarre, red-eyed, bat-winged, hag-like monster—flying around and wrecking the church (and killing Kenny in the process). When the boys finish singing the song, Veronica is sucked back into Hell. Chef, no longer under her evil spell, apologizes to the boys for ignoring them and eventually returns to their school as the chef and as his old self.\n\nCartman returns to his optometrist, who tells him that, with eyes as bad as his, he will always have to wear glasses. He solves this problem by convincing the doctor to give him an eye transplant, using Kenny's frozen head as a donor. The optometrist then asks for $3.50, suggesting that Chef's parents' tales were not entirely fabricated.\n\nParker and Stone say in the DVD commentary that the sketch involving the Loch Ness Monster was the inspiration for the character Chef. Originally Comedy Central wouldn't let the creators voice African-American characters on the show. The episode also introduces the word Derp. A television promo of the episode showed that the character Ms. Crabtree was originally Chef's replacement in the episode.\n\n"}
{"id": "2291773", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291773", "title": "Desiderius (given name)", "text": "Desiderius (given name)\n\nDesiderius is a Latin given name, related to \"desiderium\" - which can be translated as \"ardent desire\" or \"the longed-for\". Various other forms include Desiderio in Italian, Desiderio or Desi in Spanish, Desidério in Portuguese, Didier in French and Dezső in Hungarian.\n\n\"Desiderius\" may refer to:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2291778", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291778", "title": "R. J. Reynolds", "text": "R. J. Reynolds\n\nRichard Joshua \"R. J.\" Reynolds (July 20, 1850 – July 29, 1918) was an American businessman and founder of the R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company.\n\nThe son of a tobacco farmer, he worked for his father and attended Emory & Henry College from 1868 to 1870, eventually graduating from Bryant & Stratton Business College in Baltimore. He sold his share of the family business in 1874 and moved south to Winston, (now Winston-Salem, North Carolina) to start his own tobacco company. Reynolds was a savvy businessman and a hard worker, and he quickly became one of the wealthiest citizens of Winston-Salem; eventually, he was the wealthiest person in the state of North Carolina. He died in 1918 of pancreatic cancer.\n\nReynolds was born on July 20, 1850, at Rock Spring Plantation near Critz, Patrick County, Virginia. He was the son of Nancy Jane Cox Reynolds and Hardin Reynolds, a tobacco farmer and slaveowner. He grew fond of the tobacco business by helping his father.\n\nIn 1874, Reynolds sold his interest in the family tobacco business to his father and left Patrick County to start his own tobacco company. He needed a railroad hub for his business, and since there wasn't one in Patrick County, he went to the nearest one, Winston, NC. Winston and Salem were separate towns at that time. By 1875, Reynolds had established his tobacco manufacturing operation, and in the first year, it produced 150,000 pounds of tobacco. Although Winston-Salem alone had 15 other tobacco companies, Reynolds was able to distinguish himself through his business acumen and innovative techniques, including adding saccharin to chewing tobacco. By the 1890s, production had increased to millions of pounds annually.\n\nReynolds' younger brother, William Neal, was attending Trinity College (now Duke University) and worked part-time for him. Mr. Will, as he was known, began as a leaf-hanger and quickly mastered all facets of the operation. After leaving Trinity College, he managed tobacco purchasing. In 1888, Reynolds formed a formal partnership with Mr. Will and the company bookkeeper, Henry Roan. Reynolds served as President with 75% ownership, and Mr. Will and Henry Roan divided the remainder. The R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company was chartered as a corporation by the state of North Carolina on February 11, 1890. In 1892, Reynolds' net worth had grown to $200,000.\n\nIn 1913, Reynolds developed a great innovation: the packaged cigarette. Most tobacco users who smoked cigarettes preferred to roll their own, and there was thought to be no national market for pre-packaged cigarettes. Reynolds worked to develop a flavor he thought would be more appealing than past products, creating the Camel cigarette, so named because it used Turkish paper. Reynolds undercut competitors on the cost of the cigarettes, and within a year, he had sold 425 million packs of Camels.\n\nBy the time of his death, Reynolds had become the wealthiest man in North Carolina by far; his $66,000 paid annually in taxes was double the next-highest taxpayer. R.J. Reynolds had grown to encompass 121 buildings in Winston-Salem. After his death in 1918, his brother assumed control of the company; board members would wait 41 years before hanging another portrait beside Reynolds' in the R.J. Reynolds board room.\n\nReynolds was the most eligible bachelor for many years in Winston-Salem and married Katharine Smith (November 17, 1880 - May 23, 1923), who was 30 years his junior, on February 27, 1905 in Mount Airy, North Carolina. She was the daughter of Zachary Taylor Smith (February 19, 1847 - June 13, 1938) and Mary Susan Jackson (January 21, 1855 - April 17, 1926). She was born in Stokes County, North Carolina and died in New York City.\n\nReynolds and Katharine's father Zachary were cousins, and Reynolds had known Katharine since she was a young girl. She earned a degree in English literature and went to work as a Reynolds secretary, at one point winning $1,000 in a company-sponsored contest. Reynolds joked that he married Katharine to get his money back. Their marriage was very happy, and Reynolds wrote to Katharine saying he was very glad he waited so long to marry. Katharine Reynolds urged her husband to shorten employees' work hours and provide a lunchroom, schools and nursery services for them.\n\nThe Reynolds' children were:\n\nReynolds lived above the factory floor for many years. When he married, he lived with his family alongside other R.J. Reynolds executives on Fifth Street in Winston-Salem until 1917, when they moved to Reynolda House, a estate on the outskirts of town that also housed a village where Reynolds workers could live. The grounds featured a post office, schools, a chapel, a blacksmith shop and a greenhouse. At Reynolda House, Katharine brought farmers together to learn the latest scientific advances in farming. Katharine offered evening literacy classes to workers. She also commissioned construction of a nine-hole golf course.\n\nReynolds died in 1918, and his wife, although 30 years younger, died six years later. They are buried in the Salem Cemetery in Winston-Salem. Their children were then raised by their uncle, Reynolds' brother William Neal Reynolds, and his wife Kate Bitting Reynolds. Dick Reynolds became a Democratic politician, mayor of Winston-Salem, and treasurer of the Democratic National Committee.\n\nReynolds's grandson Patrick Reynolds became an anti-smoking activist following several family deaths from smoking and began the Foundation for a Smoke-Free America.\n\nIn 1884, Reynolds served as a city commissioner in Winston-Salem. Reynolds established progressive working conditions in his factory, with shorter hours and higher pay. He also signed a petition for a property tax to pay for public schools and voted to approve an income tax.\n\nReynolds was generous with his workers, building schools and houses for them on his property. He also granted endowments to Guilford College, the Oxford Orphan Asylum, and the Baptist Orphanage, in addition to many other charities and churches in the Winston-Salem community. He became the first Southern man to establish a hospital serving African Americans in the South, the Slater Hospital. He started a savings and loan, served on the town board of Winston-Salem, and began a YMCA and an opera house.\n\nReynolds donated money to the establishment of the Slater Industrial School, which would later become Winston-Salem State University.\n\nIn 1923, the newly formed Reynolds Foundation fully financed the construction of Nancy Reynolds Memorial School built at the birthplace of his and Will Reynolds' mother, Nancy Jane Cox Reynolds, in the Brown Mountain community of Stokes County. In 1930, the Reynolds Foundation paid for the construction of two wings adjoining the original building. During the Depression, Will Reynolds covered the costs for an additional month of school in order for Nancy Reynolds to become accredited. In the 1950s, the foundation financed and built the school's freestanding gymnasium and built and equipped its large agricultural building. A memorial gift that still provides for the school today is a $25,000 endowment set up after the death of Kate Bitting Reynolds, Will's wife, with the yearly dividends to be used solely for the upkeep of grounds, exterior beautification projects and playground equipment. The endowment's total value is now more than three-quarters of a million dollars and easily supports its intended use.\n\nWhen Reynolds died, North Carolina's governor Thomas Walter Bickett said: \"Therefore, the greatest eulogy that can be offered would be to refer to his life of rugged honesty, his wide usefulness and his kindly dealings with his fellowmen, which he himself deemed his first duty.\"\n\nR. J. Reynolds and his family played a large part in the public life and history of the city of Winston-Salem. After his death, his widow Katharine Smith Reynolds continued his philanthropic activities. She contributed land and funds to establish The Richard J. Reynolds High School and the R. J. Reynolds Memorial Auditorium (both listed in the National Register of Historic Places). Construction of the school and auditorium began in 1919 under the direction of architect Charles Barton Keen, and finished in 1924. Another memorial to Reynolds, an equine statue, sits on Winston-Salem City Hall Grounds in downtown Winston-Salem. A memorial to Katharine Reynolds, a 20-foot-tall obelisk, now sits on the grounds of the Richard J. Reynolds High School and R.J. Reynolds Memorial Auditorium (it was originally placed on a site in Reynolda Village, around Reynolda Church, but was rescued from demolition and moved to the site on the school grounds).\n\nThe Reynolds' estate, Reynolda House, was completed just prior to Reynolds' death in 1918 and was later donated by his daughter, Mary Reynolds Babcock, for use as an art museum. At the age of 28, Mary inherited $30 million and became one of the world's richest women. She contributed to the William Neal Reynolds Coliseum in Raleigh, North Carolina in honor of her uncle. Her will gave $525,000 for a dormitory at Salem College in Winston-Salem.\n\nThe Z. Smith Reynolds Foundation was formed by Mary Reynolds Babcock and her siblings to honor their brother, Reynolds' son Zachary, whose mysterious death at the age of 20 at Reynolda is still disputed to this day as murder or suicide. The Z. Smith Reynolds Foundation to this day gives away millions annually in the Piedmont Triad region. Babcock and her husband Charles also donated land and funds to start a country club from the grounds of Reynolda in 1939, allowing members to sign up for $1 a year while she was alive.\n\nAn area of of the grounds of the Reynolda estate was donated to Wake Forest University, which then relocated from Wake Forest, North Carolina to Winston-Salem in 1956 and was given $350,000 annually from the Z. Smith Reynolds Foundation in exchange for the move. The Reynolds family is honored through many names on the Wake Forest campus, including Reynolda Hall, the university's library, the Z. Smith Reynolds Library, William Neal Reynolds Gymnasium, along with a dormitory named for Mary Reynolds Babcock. Her husband, Charles Babcock, is honored by Wake Forest through the Charles Babcock School of Business Administration. The school was begun through $500,000 each in gifts from the Z. Smith Reynolds Foundation and Nancy Susan Reynolds. Winston-Salem's airport, the Smith Reynolds Airport, is named for Zachary Smith Reynolds.\n\nReynolds' older son Dick also donated acres of land and funds to the county for the establishment of a golf course and public park in 1939, called Reynolds Park. Its opening in 1940 marked the first time that the Winston-Salem public had access to swimming pools, tennis courts, and a golf course—previously, one had to be a member of a private club to use these types of facilities.\n\nAlmost a century after her father founded the R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, Nancy Susan Reynolds Bagley Verney, his youngest daughter and last surviving child, decided to give back to the region of her father's boyhood. In 1969, she deeded Virginia Tech of Rock Spring Plantation. In 1980, she deeded them another , where Reynolds' childhood home and a continuing education center stand. She created an endowment of $1.7 million to provide cultural programming to the surrounding community, to run a forestry research center on the site, and to fund a scholarship program for Patrick County high school students. She financed this in part by selling her Quarry Farm, designed by architect Frank Forster, in Greenwich, Connecticut, to actor Frank Gorshin in 1977 for $650,000 He would later sell it in 1980 to Diana Ross formerly of the Supremes. She also headed the effort to turn the Virginia farmstead where her father was raised into a historic site. Now called the Reynolds Homestead, it is a State and National Historic Landmark listed in the National Register of Historic Places. As a Continuing Education Center of Virginia Tech, it offers a variety of programs and classes for all ages, all open to the public and many for free. It is open for tours, April through October, Monday through Saturday.\n\nThe house was restored in 1970. Descendants of Hardin and Nancy Reynolds brought together many original heirlooms, including the bed their 16 children were born in. Only eight of their children lived to adulthood. The Homestead includes the historic house, grounds, two cemeteries, and as was the custom of that time a separate three-story brick kitchen, a brick milk house, a spring house, and a log granary.\n\nDescendants of Hardin William Reynolds have influenced the economic and cultural growth of the U.S., particularly in the South, through their business successes and philanthropy.\n\nIn 1919, his nephew, Richard S. Reynolds, Sr., founded the U.S. Foil Company in Louisville, Kentucky, supplying tin-lead wrappers to cigarette and candy companies. In 1924, he bought the maker of Eskimo Pies (which were foil-wrapped) and four years later he purchased Robertshaw Thermostat, Fulton Sylphon, and part of Beechnut Foil, adding the companies to U.S. Foil to form Reynolds Metals. After realizing the limitations of the tin and lead used in his company's products, in 1926 he added aluminum to the line. The company began using aluminum foil as a packaging material in 1926, and in 1947 they introduced Reynolds Wrap. Sold worldwide, it transformed food storage. Reynolds Metals was the second-largest aluminum company in the United States and the third-largest in the world. The Richmond, Virginia-based company was acquired by ALCOA in 2000.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2291781", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291781", "title": "James Gunn (astronomer)", "text": "James Gunn (astronomer)\n\nJames Edward Gunn (born October 21, 1938) is the Eugene Higgins Professor of Astronomy at Princeton University. Gunn's early theoretical work in astronomy has helped establish the current understanding of how galaxies form, and the properties of the space between galaxies. He also suggested important observational tests to confirm the presence of dark matter in galaxies, and predicted the existence of a Gunn–Peterson trough in the spectra of distant quasars.\n\nMuch of Gunn's later work has involved leadership in major observational projects. He developed plans for one of the first uses of digital camera technology for space observation, a project that led to the Sloan Digital Sky Survey, the most extensive three-dimensional mapping of the universe ever undertaken. He also played a major role with the Wide Field and Planetary Camera on the Hubble Space Telescope.\n\nGunn earned his bachelor's degree at Rice University in Houston, Texas, in 1961, and his Ph.D. from the California Institute of Technology (Caltech) in 1965. He joined the faculty of Princeton University two years later. Subsequently, he worked at the University of California at Berkeley and Caltech before returning to Princeton. He is married to the astronomer Gillian Knapp and they have two children, Humberto and Marleny Gunn.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2291784", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291784", "title": "Suction dredge", "text": "Suction dredge\n\nA suction dredge can be:\n"}
{"id": "2291786", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291786", "title": "Jesse Sullivan", "text": "Jesse Sullivan\n\nJesse Sullivan (born c. 1951) is an American electrician best known for operating a fully robotic limb through a nerve-muscle graft, making him one of the first non-fictional cyborgs.\n\nHis bionic arm, a prototype developed by the Rehabilitation Institute of Chicago, differs from most other prostheses, in that it does not use pull cables or nub switches to function and instead uses micro-computers to perform a much wider range of complex motions. It is also the first prototype which enables him to actually sense pressure.\n\nAs an electrician, Jesse Sullivan accidentally touched an active cable that contained 7,000-7,500 volts of electricity. In May 2001, he had to have both his arms amputated at the shoulder.\n\nSeven weeks after the amputation, Jesse Sullivan received matching bionic prostheses from Dr. Todd Kuiken of the Rehabilitation Institute of Chicago. Originally, they were operated from neural signals at the amputation sites, but Jesse Sullivan developed hyper-sensitivity from his skin grafts, causing great discomfort in those areas. Jesse Sullivan underwent neural surgery to graft nerves, which originally led to his arm, to his chest. The sensors for his bionic arms have been moved to the left side of his chest to receive signals from the newly grafted nerve endings.\n\nWhile the prototype is being strengthened, Jesse Sullivan does day-to-day tasks using an older model.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2291788", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291788", "title": "Miriam Allen deFord", "text": "Miriam Allen deFord\n\nMiriam Allen deFord (August 21, 1888 – February 22, 1975) was an American writer best known for her mysteries and science fiction. During the 1920s, she wrote for a number of left-wing magazines including \"The Masses\", \"The Liberator\", and the Federated Press. Her short story \"A Death in the Family\" appeared on Night Gallery's \"second season \"appearing in Episode Two segment One with Desi Arnez Jr.\n\nBorn in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. DeFord studied at Wellesley College and Temple University. She later studied at the University of Pennsylvania. DeFord worked as a newspaper reporter for a time. DeFord later described herself as a \"born feminist\"; she became active in the Women's suffrage movement before 1920, and was also a campaigner and disseminator of birth control information to women. DeFord was a member of the Socialist Party of America from 1919 to 1922. Her feminist work is documented in \"From Parlor to Prison: Five American Suffragists Talk About Their Lives\", edited by Sherna B. Gluck. During the \n1930s, deFord joined the Federal Writers' Project and wrote the book \"They Were San Franciscans\" for the Project. Interviewed for the League of American Writers pamphlet \"Writers Take Sides\" about the Spanish Civil War, DeFord expressed strong support for the Spanish Republic. DeFord added \"I am unalterably and actively opposed to fascism, Nazism, Hitlerism, Hirohitoism, or whatever name may be applied to the monster\".\n\nShe spent perhaps the most energy in mystery fiction and science fiction. Hence she did several anthologies in mystery and crime writing. In 1968, she wrote \"The Real Bonnie and Clyde\".\n\nShe also wrote \"The Overbury Affair\", which involves events during the reign of James I of Britain surrounding the murder of Sir Thomas Overbury. For the latter work she received a 1961 Edgar Award from the Mystery Writers of America for Best Fact Crime book. She worked for \"Humanist\" magazine and she was one of the signers of the Humanist Manifesto.\n\nHowever, in 1949, \"The Magazine of Fantasy & Science Fiction\" began with Anthony Boucher as editor. Anthony Boucher wrote science fiction and fantasy but also garnered attention in the mystery field as well. This gave his magazine some cross-over appeal to mystery writers like Ms. deFord. Hence much of her science fiction first appeared in Boucher's magazine. Her stories there dealt with themes like nuclear devastation, alienation, and changing sexual roles. Her two collections are \"Elsewhere, Elsewhen, Elsehow\" and \"Xenogenesis\". She also edited an anthology of stories mixing science fiction with mystery called \"Space, Time, and Crime.\"\n\nDeFord was also a passionate Fortean, a follower of Charles Fort, and did fieldwork for him. DeFord is mentioned in Fort's book \"Lo!\" Shortly before her death in 1975, Fortean writer Loren Coleman visited Ms. deFord frequently and interviewed her about her earlier interactions with Fort and her trips to Chico, California, to investigate the case of a poltergeist rock-thrower on Fort's behalf.\n\nDeFord died February 22, 1975, aged 86, at her longtime home, the Ambassador Hotel at 55 Mason Street in San Francisco.\n\nIn 2008, The Library of America selected deFord's story of the Leopold and Loeb trial for inclusion in its two-century retrospective of American True Crime.\n\nDeFord's first marriage was to Armistead Collier in 1915. The couple divorced in 1920.\nShe was married to Maynard Shipley from 1921 until his death in June 1934.\n\nScience Fiction:\n\nMystery:\n\n\n\n\n\nAuthor\n\nEditor\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2291790", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291790", "title": "Indian Institute of Technology (Indian School of Mines), Dhanbad", "text": "Indian Institute of Technology (Indian School of Mines), Dhanbad\n\nThe Indian Institute of Technology (Indian School of Mines), Dhanbad (abbreviated as IIT (ISM)) is a public technical and research university located in Dhanbad, India. It was formerly known as Indian School of Mines and was a deemed university before it was converted into an Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) and an Institute of National Importance.\n\nIIT (ISM) is located in the mineral-rich region of India, in the city of Dhanbad. It is the third oldest institute (after IIT Roorkee,and IIT (BHU) Varanasi) which got converted into an IIT. It was established by British Indian Government on the lines of the Royal School of Mines - London, and was formally inaugurated on 9 December 1926 by Lord Irwin, the then Viceroy of India. It started as an institution to impart mining education, and today, has grown into a technical institution with various academic departments. IIT (ISM) admits its undergraduate students through Joint Entrance Examination (Advanced), previously IIT-JEE.\n\nIIT (ISM) has 18 academic departments covering Engineering, Applied Sciences, Humanities and Social Sciences and Management programs. On 25 May 2016, the Union Cabinet headed by Prime Minister Modi approved that a bill be introduced in Parliament for converting ISM Dhanbad into an Indian Institute of Technology. On 26 July 2016, the above-mentioned Bill was passed by the Lok Sabha. On 2 August 2016 the Bill was passed by the Rajya Sabha. The Bill was eventually signed by the President of India on 10 August and notified in the Gazette of India.\n\nThe Indian National Congress at its XVII Session of December 1901 passed a resolution stating that:\n\nThe McPherson Committee formed by Government of British India, recommended the establishment of an institution for imparting education in the fields of mining and geology, whose report, submitted in 1920 and approach of Indian Mine Managers' of India in 1924,formed the main basis for establishment of the Indian School of Mines & Applied Geology at Dhanbad on 9 December 1926. From 1926 to 1946 it was led by Prof F. W. Sharpley.\n\nThe institute originally offered courses mainly in Mining Engineering and Applied Geology when it opened. In 1957, the institute began offering courses in Petroleum Engineering and Applied Geophysics and the name was changed to Indian School of Mines. Up to 1967, it was a government institute where the faculties were recruited through Union Public Service Commission (UPSC).\n\nThe school was granted university status by the University Grants Commission under the University Grants Commission Act, 1956 in 1967. Later courses in Mini ng Machinery Engineering and Mineral Engineering were started in 1975 and 1976 respectively. It was among the few institutes to start courses in Industrial Engineering and Management (in 1977), to cater to the needs of industries like metallurgy, mining and manufacturing.\n\nFrom 1996-97 the school came directly under the financial and administrative controls of Ministry of Human Resource Development, Government of India with pay scales and perks to its employees at par with that of Indian Institutes of Technology and Indian Institutes of Management. In 1997, the institute began admitting students through the IIT Joint Entrance Examination (IIT-JEE) conducted jointly by the IITs and ISM. In 1998 courses for Electronics Engineering and Computer Science and Engineering were introduced and in 1999, the institute started a bachelor of technology course in Mechanical Engineering.\n\nIn 2006, IIT (ISM) added 14 new courses, prominent among them being Electrical Engineering and a course in Environmental Engineering in the undergraduate curriculum. From 2006, IIT (ISM) also started offering Integrated Master of Science (Int. M.Sc) in Applied Physics, Applied Chemistry and Mathematics & Computing, and Integrated Master of Science and Technology (Int. M.Sc Tech) courses for Applied Geology and Applied Geophysics. In 2011 institute offered a B.Tech programme in Chemical Engineering. The institute introduced Civil Engineering in 2013 and Engineering Physics in 2014.\n\nWhile a proposal to upgrade ISM Dhanbad to an Institutes of National Importance had been put as early as 1994 by a Government Committee, no action was taken by the Government over this proposal.\n\nA proposal for the conversion was included in the 12th Five year plan after its passage through the National Development Council (NDC), on 27 December 2012, and put across the IIT Council on 7 January 2013.\n\nThe Union Finance Minister Arun Jaitley, during his budget speech in Parliament on 28 February 2015, proposed to upgrade ISM Dhanbad into an IIT. On 25 May 2016, the Union Cabinet approved that a bill be introduced in Parliament for converting ISM Dhanbad into an IIT. On 19 July 2016 the Institutes of Technology (Amendment) Bill, 2016 was introduced into the Lok Sabha. It was passed by the Lok Sabha without opposition on 25 July 2016. The Rajya Sabha unanimously passed the Bill on 2 August 2016. The Bill got the Presidential assent and a Gazette notification was made on 6 Sep 2016, thus officially converting erstwhile Indian School of Mines into an Indian Institute of Technology.\n\nIIT (ISM) Dhanbad campus size is around 365 acres, and is located in Sardar Patel Nagar of Dhanbad. It is situated 3 KM away from Dhanbad Railway station. The institute has around 8101 students with 3732 undergraduate studentes, 1951 postgraduate students, and 2418 doctoral students.\n\nThe institute has 11 hostels which are all named around some precious stones like Diamond, Sapphire, Amber, Ruby, Opal etc. Some of these hostels are as old as 94 years, and have capacities ranging from 400 to 2200 students. Four of them are for girls and remaining Seven for boys, both include one hostel each for international students. \n\nThe campus has various places where students like to spend their major portion of their time apart from taking classes in the lecture halls.\n\nThese include: Student Activity Center (SAC), Main Canteen, Ram Dhani (RD), Library Basement, Penman Auditorium, Heritage Building, Oval Garden etc. \n\nThe institute hosts many fests including Srijan - The cultural fest of IIT (ISM), Concetto - The Tech-fest, Parakram - Games and sports fest, Basant - The alumni re-union, and Pratibimb - The inter departmental cultural fest. Apart from these the institute also hosts inter-house sports and cultural competitions and technical fests of various departments.\n\nThe Students’ Gymkhana (SG) gives students a role in the administrative and academic governance of the Institute and helps them develop leadership and administrative skills. SG activities subordinate to academic activities. The SG functions through the Students’ Senate and its Executive wing. The Senate is the Central Representative, Legislative and Supervisory body of the students. The student body is elected through gymkhana elections held every year in the month of march.\n\nIIT (ISM) offers courses in engineering, pure sciences, management and humanities with a focus on engineering. The institute has 18 departments and five inter-disciplinary centers. The Department of Mining Engineering has been accorded the status of \"Center of Advanced Studies\" by the University Grants Commission.\n\nAdmission to the courses of B.Tech, Dual Degree and Integrated courses are done from JEE Advanced qualified students. Admission to the M.Tech courses are done either through the Graduate Aptitude Test in Engineering (GATE) or through a special examination conducted by the institute. Admissions to the MBA program is done through the Common Admission Test (CAT). Admission to the M.Sc.Tech. and PhD courses are done through exams conducted by the institute.\n\nVarious courses offered by institute include:\n\n\nIIT (ISM) has the following departments offering courses in various academic programs.\n\nInternationally, IIT (ISM) ranked 173 among BRICS nations in the QS World University Rankings of 2019, 801-1000 globally by the Times Higher Education World University Rankings of 2020, 170 in Asia Rankings 2019 and 172 in Emerging Economies Rankings 2019.\n\nIn India, among engineering colleges, it ranked 6th by India Today in 2017, 14 by Outlook India in 2019 and 15 by The Week in 2018. It was ranked 15 among engineering colleges by the National Institutional Ranking Framework in 2019 in Engineering category and ranks 25 in the Overall category.\n\nThe institute was ranked 32 in NIRF for its management course floated by the Department of Management Studies in 2019.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2291800", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291800", "title": "Good Neighbor Sam", "text": "Good Neighbor Sam\n\nGood Neighbor Sam is a 1964 American Eastman Color comedy film co-written and directed by David Swift and starring Jack Lemmon, Romy Schneider, Edward G. Robinson, Dorothy Provine, and Michael Connors.\n\nIt was based on the novel by Jack Finney. The screenplay was the motion picture debut of James Fritzell and Everett Greenbaum, who had written many American television situation comedies including \"The Andy Griffith Show\" and \"Mister Peepers\" (created by David Swift). Greenbaum also created the mobile sculpture featured in the film.\n\nLemmon plays Sam Bissell, a hard-working San Francisco advertising executive, with two young daughters and a loving wife, Min (Dorothy Provine).\n\nAn extremely important client, Simon Nurdlinger (Edward G. Robinson), is considering taking his business elsewhere when he believes there are no \"family men\" working at Sam's company. Sam's boss, Mr. Burke (Edward Andrews), introduces the client to Sam. The client is delighted by Sam and agrees to do business with him and the company. Sam feels his career is now on the way up and he goes home to celebrate with his wife. There, he meets his wife's longtime friend and their new next-door neighbor, Janet (Romy Schneider), and they all have dinner together to celebrate his promotion and Janet's new home. Sam gets drunk and tumbles down the grand carpeted staircase of the Fairmont Hotel, knocking down a waiter carrying trays of meals.\n\nJanet, a beautiful woman, is recently divorced from her husband Howard (Michael Connors) and is happier than ever. She has also come into a large inheritance from her grandfather, which carries the stipulation that she must still be married to Howard in order to receive the inheritance. State law dictates that a divorce is not final until a year from final settlement. Since only six months have passed, Janet decides to hide the divorce from her cousins Irene (Anne Seymour) and Jack (Charles Lane) who stand to inherit if Janet is disqualified.\n\nWith Howard unavailable, Sam is pressed to impersonate him when Irene and Jack arrive for a visit. Having never met Howard, Irene and Jack seem convinced but begin watching the couple with a telescopic surveillance camera hidden in a phony workmen's truck nearby. Janet and Sam (with Min's complicity) are thereby forced to continue the charade for several days, with Sam cohabiting and being driven to work by Janet, and sneaking in to occasionally visit Min through the back yard, or hidden in a laundry basket. When caught pretending by Mr. Burke and Mr. Nurdlinger, Sam and Janet are then forced into a double charade in which Janet pretends to be Min. The situation begins to unravel when Irene and Jack hire a private investigator to keep watch on Sam and Janet, and Howard re-enters the picture. Sam panics after noticing new advertising billboards around the city showing his face with Janet's, and so paints clown faces on them late the last night before the attorney is to give Howard and Janet their inheritance.\n\n\n\nThe film, set in San Francisco, makes use of obligatory exterior shots, including a long montage of scenes of Sam driving his car all over the city, up and down hills, as well as the curvy block of Lombard Street, as so many directors love to portray. The remainder of the film was shot in the Los Angeles area, both on location and at the studio.\n\nThe film grossed $9,072,726 at the box office, earning $5.3 million in rentals.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2291804", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291804", "title": "Microsoft Office Live Meeting", "text": "Microsoft Office Live Meeting\n\nMicrosoft Office Live Meeting is a discontinued commercial subscription-based web conferencing service operated by Microsoft. Live Meeting included software installed on client PCs and used a central server for all clients to connect to. Microsoft now produces Skype for Business which is an enterprise Unified Communications product, that can be rolled out either on-premises or in the cloud.\n\nMicrosoft Office Live Meeting was a separate piece of software which was installed on a user's PC (Windows Based Meeting Console). The software was made available for free download from the Microsoft website. There was also a Java-based console with antecedent release functionality. This also operated in Mac OS X and Solaris environments. The desktop client for Live Meeting was not compatible on the Mac in either Firefox or Safari 3.x; however, non-Windows users could connect to a web-based Live Meeting, if the meeting organizer published an HTTP URL to access the meeting.\n\nLive Meeting was convergence software (i.e., allowing integration with an audio conference). Using the web users could control PSTN lines (mute all parties except themselves, eject parties, etc.). User accounts were grouped together in Conference Centers (a unique URL) starting with: www.livemeeting.com/cc/. . . or www.placeware.com/cc/. . . Users could join a Live Meeting session free of charge. Charges for Live Meeting were on an account basis. Supply of accounts was mostly done by resellers (Global Telecoms companies) which levied per minute or monthly standing charges.\n\nWith the introduction of Office 365 Office, Live Meeting customers were encouraged to move to Microsoft Lync Server.\n\nWith Live Meeting 2007 Microsoft offered both a hosted model for Microsoft Office Live Meeting 2007 as well as a CPE (customer premises equipment) solution, namely Office Communications Server 2007. In addition to Microsoft directly hosting Microsoft Office Live Meeting 2007, hosting partners also offered Microsoft Office Live Meeting 2007 as a fee-based service. Whether attendees used the Live Meeting service or the Office Communications Server 2007 (OCS 2007) to power their web conference, they were able to use the same client software.\n\nNew features included:\n\nLive Meeting Web Access (MWA) was redesigned in this release to provide a user experience nearly identical to the new Windows-based Live Meeting client. One benefit was that Live Meeting Web Access was a Java applet and therefore ran on non-Windows operating systems such as Linux, Solaris, and MacOS.\n\nThe Live Meeting product was also intended to operate with the Polycom CX5000 (formerly known as the Microsoft RoundTable), a 360 degree video camera optimized to work with Microsoft Office Live Meeting 2007. One new feature included in this version allowed the Microsoft Office Live Meeting client to automatically switch the larger video window to the actively speaking participant. This auto-switch feature was not specific to the Polycom CX5000 product - it worked with any USB-based camera. The main advantage of the CX5000 was its 360 degree camera view, suitable for conference rooms with several participants. With specially designed microphones, the CX5000 was able to determine the location of the active speaker and then tell Microsoft Office Live Meeting which camera angle to focus on.\n\nLive Meeting was originally a separate company called PlaceWare. Microsoft acquired PlaceWare to improve upon NetMeeting, its own webconferencing technology. Microsoft subsequently dropped development of NetMeeting.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2291815", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291815", "title": "Jared Tyler", "text": "Jared Tyler\n\nJared Tyler, Tulsa Oklahoma, is an American singer-songwriter. He made his national debut with the release of \"Blue Alleluia\", an album produced by Russ Titelman on Walking Liberty Records, New York City.\n\nTyler has been the supporting act for many artists and bands such as Emmylou Harris, Nickel Creek, Merle Haggard, Wilco, Shelby Lynne, Dave Wilcox, Shannon Lawson, John Hammond and Willis Alan Ramsey. As well as touring with Malcolm Holcombe, Tyler has recorded with Holcombe; Shannon Lawson; The Tractors; Jelly Roll Johnson; bassist and producer Dave Pomeroy; and producer Scott Harding, EmmyLou Harris, Mary Kay Place, Dave Wilcox, and others.\n"}
{"id": "2291817", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291817", "title": "Motortown Revue", "text": "Motortown Revue\n\nMotown's entire roster, and occasionally non-Motown performers such as James Brown, Otis Redding, Aretha Franklin, Dusty Springfield, The Shirelles and Patti LaBelle & the Bluebelles, were featured on the tours. Most of the venues for the early Motortown Revue tours were along the \"Chitlin' Circuit\" in the eastern and southern United States. In the Deep South racism became an issue, as the mostly African American performers were sometimes attacked or threatened by local white residents. While in the north the Motown artists generally played to mixed audiences, in the South, white and black audiences either attended separate shows, or were allowed to attend the same show as long as each race stayed on either side of a police-guarded rope that divided the performance hall. Motown artists are credited with being among those who broke down these barriers so later audiences would no longer be separated by color.\n\nIt was from a live Motortown Revue performance that Little Stevie Wonder got his first big hit, the 1963 #1 hit \"Fingertips (Pt. 2)\". Motown CEO Berry Gordy, Jr. noted in his biography, \"To Be Loved\", that the Revue was used to showcase Stevie Wonder in the days before he had his first hit. Also, Smokey Robinson and the other Miracles composed songs such as \"The Way You Do the Things You Do\" and \"My Girl\" while on the road, which later became hits for The Temptations. The Miracles, Motown's first star act (and first million-selling group), always closed the show.\n\nAfter becoming a major force in the music industry during the mid-1960s, Motown continued to organize group tours under the Motortown Revue name. Later tours from the mid-1960s on covered the entire United States, and other countries including the UK and France.\n\nThe revue was filmed during a December 1962 week-long stand at the Apollo Theater, and in 1963 Motown released audio edits from the films as a series of live LPs. The films themselves have never had an authorized exhibition other than occasional brief snippets in a Motown TV special. \n\nA four-CD box set compiling the four issued albums of Motortown Revue live performances was released by Motown/Hip-O select in 2002, celebrating the Revue's 40th anniversary. \"Motortown Revue: 40th Anniversary Collection\" collected the various artists Motown releases \"Motortown Revue, Vol. 1 Recorded Live at the Apollo\" (1963), \"Motortown Revue Vol. 2\" (recorded at Detroit's Fox Theatre in 1964), \"Motortown Revue in Paris\" (recorded at the Olympia Theatre in 1965), and \"Motortown Revue Live!\" (recorded at the Fox Theatre in 1969). \n\nIn 2015, a 2 CD deluxe edition of the \"Motortown Revue in Paris\" was released, containing 12 previously unavailable and unreleased live tracks.\n"}
{"id": "2291825", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291825", "title": "Killshot (novel)", "text": "Killshot (novel)\n\nKillshot, the 1989 novel by author Elmore Leonard, tells the story of a married couple who find themselves in Cape Girardeau, Missouri while on the run from a pair of hitmen.\n\nCarmen and Wayne Colson live a quiet, suburban life. Carmen is a realtor while Wayne is an ironworker. Suddenly everything is violently changed when they stumble upon an extortion plot hatched by two crooks, Armand \"Blackbird\" Degas and his partner Richie Nix. While Richie is unstable and impatient, the Blackbird is calm and collected. After Wayne forces the two away with a Sleever Bar, the criminals decide to exact vengeance on the Colsons, leading to a tense climax.\n\n"}
{"id": "2291828", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291828", "title": "Susie Garrett", "text": "Susie Garrett\n\nSusie Garrett (December 29, 1929 – May 24, 2002) was an American actress of theatre and television, jazz vocalist, and acting teacher. She is best known for playing Betty Johnson on the TV series \"Punky Brewster\".\n\nGarrett had an associate's degree in psychology from Shaw College at Detroit. She was the mother of four sons, and the older sister of Marla Gibbs. Together, Garrett and Gibbs co-founded the Crossroads Art Academy acting school in Los Angeles.\n\nBorn in Detroit, Michigan in 1929, she sang jazz at clubs in the city. She starred in such plays as \"Dark of the Moon\" and \"Shakin' the Mess Out of Misery\", and had a small part in the 1989 film \"Wicked Stepmother\".\n\nAside from \"Punky Brewster\", she has guest starred on \"The Twilight Zone\", \"My Three Sons\", and her sister \"Marla Gibbs \"' TV series \"The Jeffersons\" and \"227\".\n\nGarrett died of cancer at Providence Hospital in Southfield, Michigan, on May 24, 2002, aged 72. She is interred at Woodlawn Cemetery.\n\n"}
{"id": "2291834", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291834", "title": "Greg Matthews", "text": "Greg Matthews\n\nGregory Richard John \"Mo\" Matthews (born 15 December 1959) is a former New South Wales and Australian cricket all rounder (off-spin bowler and left-handed batsman) who is now a television cricket commentator.\n\nWhen Australian cricket was in the doldrums in the 1980s \"his dashing batsmanship and growing ability as a spin bowler suddenly elevated Matthews to a position of a national hero\". He made centuries in times of crisis against New Zealand and India in 1985–86, took ten wickets in the Tied Test at Madras and batted well against England in 1986–87.\n\nThereafter his career declined as the \"effervescent and unorthodox\" Matthews did not fit in with the rest of the Australian Test team. As Australia rose to dominance in the 1990s Matthews proved to be \"not good enough in either of the game's main departments to make a lasting impact as a Test all-rounder\" and despite a century against England in 1990–91 he played only irregularly and was finally dropped in 1993. He continued to play with success for New South Wales until he retired in 1997.\n\nDuring his youth Matthews attended Ermington Public School and played for the Rydalmere Cricket Club, where he won the Under 11s Northern Districts Cricket Association Cricketer of the Year Award in 1970–71 and 1971–72. Coach Gordon Nolan was crucial to his early development.\n\nPrior to his cricket career taking off, Matthews played Colts (under 20s) Rugby for the Eastwood Rugby Club and was a pro for the Cumbrian side Whitehaven Cricket Club for three seasons, starring in the club's 1981 league championship victory. At the conclusion of a successful season for Eastwood there was speculation that cricket may be put aside for Rugby, but he opted to play cricket.\n\nMatthews made his first-class debut over the 1982–83 summer. Scoring 123 and taking 3–48 for the state colts against Queensland saw him selected in the New South Wales side to play Western Australia in November 1982, replacing John Dyson, who was on test duty.\n\nHe took 3–41 for NSW in a day-night game against a touring New Zealand side.\n\nSome enterprising runs from Matthews in a game against Queensland helped NSW get in the Sheffield Shield final. Matthews played in the final, won by NSW—their first Sheffield Shield in 17 years.\n\nHe spent the 1983 winter playing club cricket in England.\n\nMatthews was made 12th man for NSW's first game of the 1983–84 season—a delayed McDonald's Cup one day final. However, poor bowling by Murray Bennett in that game saw Matthews take Bennett's place.\n\nHe took three wickets in a shield game against WA, then scored 86 with 13 boundaries against the touring Pakistan side. He injured his hand while fielding in a game against Victoria. However, Matthews was then picked to play in the Australian team against Pakistan. He was chosen along with state teammate Murray Bennett.\n\nMatthews had recently applied to go on the dole but was ruled out on a technicality when it was discovered that he was playing in a McDonald's Cup match that week. \"I don't care what money I get, man\", Matthews said. \"It's the buzz of playing for Australia that's got me. I'm not worried about how much they pay ... I'd do it all for nothing just to wear that green cap.\" However, there was some sad news for Matthews. \"My old coach from the Rydalmere junior days, Gordon Nolan, is dead and I owe so much to him that I wish I could have contacted him this morning as both our dreams came true.\"\n\nMatthews was also picked to play in the Prime Ministers XI.\n\n\"Matthews is a tough, useful, determined little cricketer; a steady, flat, off-spin bowler; a staunch, correct left-hand bat; and a brilliant fielder. He is also a cocky, slightly zany character.\"\nEarly in his cricketing career Matthews was regarded \"as a bowler who fielded energetically and could bat a bit\" and a \"complete extrovert, dressing to shock\". He was usually referred to as Greg, but his teammates nicknamed him 'Mo', \"short for 'misère', which he always called when we played five hundred\". Matthews enjoyed clubbing and ignored the midnight curfew imposed by New South Wales fast bowler Geoff Lawson as \"these were his socialising hours and the time he came to life\", and his mantra was \"'live each day as if it's your last'\".\n\nMatthews took 2/95 and 2/48 in his first test match, running out Zaheer Abbas in the first innings and bowling him in the second. With the bat he made 75, joining Graham Yallop (268) on 354/7 and adding 185 together for the eighth wicket.\n\nAustralian captain Kim Hughes said he \"thought that Matthews's innings was a remarkable performance as he is fiercely competitive which is typically Australian. His batting was great and his overall performance was outstanding.\" However, there was controversy when Matthews was dismissed; he was given out lbw by umpire Tony Crafter and when he walked off he indicated that he thought the ball had come off his bat. (Matthews later apologised to the umpire for the very public display of dissent.)\n\nThe Test was drawn and Matthews was kept for the Fifth Test, preferred to Murray Bennett as the spinner. He was Greg Chappell's batting partner when he was dismissed for 182 in his final Test innings. Chappell later said Matthews was the strangest cricketer he ever played with. \"He came from a different background, spoke a different language, a surfie's language\", recalled Chappell. \"'Bro', 'cool' being a major part of his language. He didn't meet the stereotype of what an Australian cricketer looked like, spoke like, sounded like. And yet he had a love of the game that was as strong as anyone I ever played with or against.\"\n\nMatthews' performance in the tests impressed captain Kim Hughes. \"He's very competitive, wants to bowl and bat\", Hughes said. \"If we had 12 players with the same approach it would be great.\"\n\nMatthews was picked to play in Australia's one day team for the World Series Cricket competition that summer and was praised for his fielding, but failed to perform with the bat and ball and was dropped after two games.\n\nMatthews responded with a good performance against Tasmania in the Sheffield Shield.\n\nMathews was selected as one of two spinners on the 1983–84 tour to the West Indies.\n\nHe played in two early tour games but was out-bowled by the other spinner Tom Hogan who was preferred in the first four tests.\n\nMatthews bowled well against Barbados and scored 54 against Windward Islands as an opener.\n\nAustralia lost the third and fourth tests. Matthews was picked in the fifth test.\n\nHe was a makeshift opener in the second innings as Steve Smith was injured. Kim Hughes seemed reluctant to use Matthews as a bowler in a game which Australia lost.\n\nMatthews was omitted from the one day squad to tour India in 1984 and he was not offered a contract from the ACB for the following summer.\n\nMatthews was unable to force his way back into a test team for the first three tests against the West Indies. But 88 against Queensland helped see him selected in the side for the 4th test.\n\nMatthews dismissed Viv Richards (208) and Clive Lloyd (91) with his 2/67 in a draw that ended their 11 match winning streak.\n\nHe was not one of the three spinners chosen for the Fifth Test on his home ground at Sydney where Australia won by an innings.\n\nHowever, Matthews finished the summer strongly in the Sheffield Shield. He scored 87 and took 5–32 against Queensland, then scored his maiden century, 103 against Victoria. When asked about a possible return to the Australian side, Matthews said, \"I think as little as possible about it. I used to lie awake thinking about it a lot but I don't want the disappointment of not going and besides, NSW has a lot to do.\"\n\nMatthews was told he was recalled to the Australian side to tour Sharjah for a one-day tournament, then took part in the Sheffield Shield final, where NSW beat Qld by one wicket. He capped off the season with news he had been picked in the squad to tour England for the 1985 Ashes. \"I just didn't think I would make it\", said a delighted Matthews.\n\nMatthews toured Sharjah with the Australian one day team.\n\nMatthews then went to England in 1985, where he proved popular in the county matches. Australia seemed determined to play an all rounder and Matthews was in competition with Simon O'Donnell.\n\nIn the One Day Internationals Matthews batted at number eight and hit the winning runs at Old Trafford (22 not out) and Lord's (29 not out) as Australia won the Texaco Trophy 2–1.\n\nIn the Third Test at Trent Bridge he mixed with the crowd and read a newspaper in the stands; \"Matthews of the \"petit-punk\" hair and puppet movements...has a happy knack of winding up crowds\".\n\nMatthews produced some solid batting performances in the county games. He was selected in the Fourth Test because Graeme Wood was injured and again volunteered to open the innings, but also ran out Allan Lamb from extra cover.\n\nAt the end of the tour Matthews had now played in five Test matches, but had only made 139 runs (19.85) and taken 7 wickets (45.28) and was far from establishing his place in the Australia team.\n\nAlan Border said \"Greg never really came on as much as we expected. But he's still young and has time on his side.\"\n\n\"Greg Matthews joined me at the wicket to start an innings which was to 'make' him as a Test cricketer...I think we had all regarded him as a bowler who fielded energetically and could bat a bit. We'd misjudged him, and that century put the true all-rounder stamp on him.\"\n\nMatthews started the 1985–86 summer well with 184 against Tasmania. He then took 5–22 against Victoria.\n\n\"I'm a little older now, I'm more hungry for success and have a little more experience on my side in how I conduct myself\", he said.\n\nMatthews was picked to play the First Test against New Zealand at the Woolloongabba. The selection choice came down to Matthews and Simon O'Donnell—Matthews was picked, with O'Donnell 12th man.\n\nThis test saw Australia lose their third Test in a row by an innings as Richard Hadlee took 15/123. Matthews was Australian's best bowler (3/110) and joined the Australian captain Allan Border at 67/5 in the second innings with 307 runs required to make New Zealand bat again. He made his first Test century—115 off 229 balls with 10 fours and a six—and most of the 197 runs added with Border (152), a record sixth wicket stand for Australia against New Zealand.\n\n\"I was really disappointed at get ting out\", he said. \"I felt as if I'd let the team down with just four overs to go and I'd wanted to see it through. Allan and I were confident we could play through tomorrow. We certainly felt that we could save the game.\"\n\nThis was backed up with 111 for NSW against New Zealand then 50 and 32 in the Second Test at Sydney, which Australia won by 4 wickets.\n\nIn the third test he scored 34 and 14 as Australia lost. He was second in the Australian series batting averages after the captain with 247 runs (41.16).\n\nAlan Border was greatly pleased with Matthews performances that summer saying \"Once he didn't feel part of the team, he fell he was a different sort of a character and others reacted that way to him. Now he feels accepted – his idiosyncrasies are not him being smart, we have found, and he now feels part of us.\"\n\nNew Zealand was only the third country to beat Australia at home after England and the West Indies and India looked set to become the fourth. They made scores of 520, 445, 59/2 and 600/4 in the Tests and Matthews suffered with the other Australian bowlers, taking only two wickets (118.00) in the series.\n\nIn the Second Test at Melbourne he came in at 109/5 and made 100 not out adding 46 for the last wicket with his New South Wales teammate Dave Gilbert (4)—who came in when Matthews was 59—to hoist the Australian total up to 262. Lacklustre Indian batting and late rain saved the match after Allan Border (163) and Gilbert (10 not out) made another rear-guard action in the second innings. Though they outplayed Australia in all three Tests this was the nearest India came to winning a Test and the series.\n\nAfter the two Test series there was a triangular World Series Cup One Day series between Australia, New Zealand and India, who were the current World Champions, and Australia and India made it into the best out of three finals. Matthews was part of the Australian squad throughout the summer.\n\nMatthews played a key role in several Australian victories including 46 in a game against India and 1–27 against New Zealand.\n\nIn the First WSC Final Matthews was run out for 7 in Australia's 170/8, but returned an economical 9–0–27–3 to bowl out India for 159 to win by 11 runs.\n\n\"Matthews is a confidence player, never says die and has developed tremendously as a player\", Border said after the game. \"I ask special players their opinions as the game progresses, but would never have thought of confiding in Matthews a short time ago.\"\n\nIn the Second WSC Final he took 10–0–37–2 to restrict India to 187 and saw Australia win the game by 7 wickets and the Finals 2–0 without the need for a third game. Matthews was voted Player of the Finals and it was a considerable boost to Australian confidence as the team completed a lap of honour round the Melbourne Cricket Ground.\n\nMatthews was selected on Australia's tours of New Zealand and Sharjah. For the latter he was to be one of Australia's selectors, a sign of how integral he had become.\n\n\"National selector – that's a big wrap, man\", he said at the time. \"It's a bit of added responsibility and I hope that I can handle it. I'm really happy that the people who are virtually my employers think I can handle the extra responsibility that goes with being a selector.\"\n\n\"I could never analyse why, right from the outset, sections of the New Zealand crowds had taken a set against Greg. Perhaps it was his jaunty manner on the field. Perhaps he was a shade too successful for the liking of the more rabidly parochial Kiwi fans...You could never understand the mentality behind the crank phone calls Greg received in New Zealand, the egg-throwing and the incident in Wellington where a toilet seat was thrown on the field\". \nAustralia toured New Zealand in 1985–86 and lost their second series against them in the same season despite several improvements.\n\nWhen they arrived Matthews said \"Greg Matthews had a fantastic summer. He kept things going in the field, never said die and was full of enthusiasm. He certainly helped me: he has been a big plus for Australia.\"\n\nMatthews began the tour well with 57 in a tour game. He was still nursing a shoulder injury from the WSC series but was picked in the first test team. \"He is just too important to leave out\", said Border.\n\nIn the First Test, Matthews (130) came in at 166/4 and added 213 for the fifth wicket with Greg Ritchie (92), a record for Australia vs New Zealand and Matthews' highest Test score. Matthews had eggs pelted at him during his innings.\n\nRain ensured a draw in both the first two Tests and in the Second Matthews had the unusual bowling analysis of 3–3–0–1 when he caught and bowled Bruce Edgar in New Zealand's second innings of 16/1.\n\nMatthews scored 66 in a one-day game in Napier.\n\nAustralia lost the Third Test when they collapsed to 103 in the second innings and lost by 8 wickets. Matthews had taken his then best Test bowling of 4/61, dismissing Bruce Edgar (24), Ken Rutherford (0) and Martin Crowe (0) with the score on 73.\n\nThis gave him 8 wickets (29.50), his best series bowling so far, but he had taken only 23 wickets (43.69) in 14 Tests to add to his 725 runs (32.95).\n\nThe Australian captain Allan Border threatened to resign if Australia did not win the four game One Day International series and then saw New Zealand go 2–0 up. Fortunately Australia won the last two games and Matthews was Man of the Match in the Fourth ODI at Eden Park, where he made 54, took 9–1–33–3 and held onto three catches in Australia's 44-run win. This allowed Border to announce that the team had improved enough for him not to resign, much to the advantage of Australian cricket.\n\nThroughout the series, Matthews was constantly booed by the crowd. \"I suppose I am paying the price for my style of individuality after they watched me on TV in the series at home\", he said.\n\n\"He gives everything, he is flamboyant but not a ratbag\", said Border. \"I know Matthews is disappointed—he hasn't enjoyed the tour, he has been given a hard time by some elements here. He likes meeting people but has been prevented from mingling socially.\"\n\n\"If he finds the crowd harsh here then he must remember he asked for it.\" said Jeremy Coney. \"But crowds just can't be neutral about him\", he said. Some applaud his behaviour and others didn't. His behaviour polarises the crowds here and he must expect some sort of reaction from those who don't like it. I just feel neutral about him—when he is batting I want to get rid of him, when he is bowling I want to hit him around the park.\"\n\nMatthews position in the side was confirmed when he took part in the short one day tournament in Sharjah. Matthews was the third selector.\n\nThere was more good news for Matthews when he returned home: he won NSW Cricketer of the Year.\n\n\"There were many heros throughout the exhausting five days of play, but with a doubt, the most unsung of them was Greg Matthews, who scored 44 and 27 not out and took five wickets in each innings. His stamina and resilience were absolutely staggering, especially on the last day, when he bowled 39.5 overs just about consecutively to keep us in the game and then ultimately tie it. Making his feat all the more noteworthy in the eyes of his fellow players was the fact that he wore two sleeveless sweaters throughout the day. Actually, he gave one to the umpire when he fielded and only wore them both when he was bowling. We just shook our heads in disbelief, because it was so hot with 90-degree humidity, but as usual Greg had a theory. He explained that nomadic herders in the desert wore woollen coats because they kept the cool air in, thus acting as a kind of air-conditioner.\"\nAustralia toured India at the start of the 1986–87 season. He and Ray Bright were the only spinners.\n\nMatthews had an excellent tour. He took five wickets in the first tour game, and made 99 against Bombay.\n\nHe played the First Test at Madras, a huge concrete bowl which radiated the intense heat, which rose to 50 °C with 90% humidity. Allan Border won the toss and Australia declared on 574/7 on the third day when Matthews was out for 44. In the Indian innings he took 5/103, his first five-wicket haul in Test cricket and best Test figures, as he dismissed Sunil Gavaskar (caught and bowled), Krishnamachari Srikkanth, Ravi Shastri, Chandrakant Pandit and Kapil Dev as India were bowled out for 397. Australia batted again and Matthews made 27 not out in Australia's 170/5, which set India 348 runs to win on the last day. Matthews dismissed Srikkanth, Mohinder Amarnath and Pandit as India collapsed from 200/2 to 291/6. His 40th over was the last that could be played in the match, bowling to Ravi Shastri, with India's last man Maninder Singh at the bowler's end. India needed four runs to win from the 6-ball over with only one wicket remaining;\n\nIndia were all out for 347, Matthews having taken 5/146 (10/249 in the match) in the second Second Tied Test in cricket history. It was the second and last time that he would take five wickets in a Test innings and the only time that he took ten wickets in a Test match. Dean Jones (210) and Kapil Dev (119) were each selected as a 'man of the match'. Greg Matthews was later made 'all-rounder of the match'.\n\nMatthews later reflected, \"It was an incredible relief that we didn't lose because we certainly didn't deserve to. Obviously it was an emotional high that's very hard to express in words. But I wouldn't say it was the high point of my career, simply because we didn't win.\n\nThe Second Test began with three days of rain and Matthews did not bat or bowl.\n\nThe Third Test was a draw, Matthews taking 4/158 to dismiss Gavaskar, Srikkanth, Amarnath and Mohammad Azharuddin in India's only innings. He took 14 wickets (29.07) and made 91 runs (45.50) in the series, his most successful with the ball.\n\n\"When, at the start of the following season, Australia found themselves in trouble against England in the Brisbane Test, there was an extraordinary display of faith in his ability: up in the Press-box at the Gabba the assembled army of journalists, almost to a man, uttered statesments of relief when they saw Matthews emerging from the pavilion at number seven. He was the man to stop the rot they felt. He duly made fifty and by dogged batting and a good deal of talking managed to stave off a second defeat in the next game at Perth. But gradually his outer ebullience became crushed by inner doubts and by the end of the summer he was being viewed by some disillusioned scribes as just another player in a country which had temporarily lost its grip on international cricket\"\nMatthews returned to Australia as with improved all-rounder credentials and the Test team's first choice spinner. Despite high hopes of regaining The Ashes against an England team that \"can't bat, can't bowl and can't field\" Australia found itself in trouble again. Allan Border won the toss at the Gabba put England in to bat and watched them make 456. Greg Matthews was the most senior of bowlers, and had played as many Tests (17) as the others combined; Bruce Reid (8), Steve Waugh (8), Merv Hughes (1) and Chris Matthews (0). Still, he made a gritty 56 not out in the first innings, but Australia could not avoid the follow-on and lost by 7 wickets.\n\nIn the Second Test at the WACA England made 592/7 declared and Matthews batted for 190 minutes for his 45 and 14 not out to see out the draw. There was some talk Matthews would become 12th man for the third test but he kept his place.\n\nThe Third Test at Adelaide finally saw Australia on top, but Border declared their innings on 514/5 with Matthews on 73 not out and Waugh on 79 not out after complaining about their slow scoring rate. In any case England had no trouble drawing the match on a slow, flat wicket, though Matthews did bowl the England captain Mike Gatting for a first ball duck.\n\nThe Fourth Test at Melbourne was a debacle as the Australian batsmen threw their wickets away to Ian Botham (5/41) and Gladstone Small (5/48) and losing inside three days; Matthews made 14 and 0. Although he had made 217 runs (53.75) Matthews had taken only two wickets (147.50) and could hardly justify his place in the bowling line up. Neil Harvey wrote in a column:\nIf they [the selectors] ever pick Greg Matthews again the game is not fair. Matthews shouldn't have been in the side in Adelaide or Melbourne and that was proved when his captain didn't ask him to bowl a single over last Friday and Saturday. His appointment in the fourth Test ahead of Greg Ritchie was a disgraceful selection. He's got to be dropped from the Sydney Test.\nHe only played one game in the Benson and Hedges One Day Challenge. With The Ashes out of reach the selectors dropped David Boon and Craig McDermott for the Fifth Test, and made Matthews 12th man. The test was won thanks to the debutant spinner Peter Taylor and Peter Sleep.\n\nMatthews did keep his place in the Australian one day squad. Highlights of the summer included 3–32 against the West Indies, 2–24 against England and 3–27 against England. Alan Border made a point of praising Matthews for his bowling in the one day matches at the end of the summer.\n\nThis ensured Matthew's selection on another short tour to Sharjah to play one day games against India, England and Pakistan. He and Peter Taylor would be the spinners. Matthews ended the Australian summer with a century for NSW against Victoria.\n\nAround this time Matthews revealed he turned down two approaches to tour South Africa despite being offered $200,000 because \"I didn't think $200,000 would make me happy and I had other things in life to do.\" He defended his former teammates who had decided to go and opposed the sporting boycott:\nWhen I'm in Sharjah (United Arab Emirates), I don't put up my hand and say, 'Well, why aren't you girls allowed to walk around like Western Europeans'—because that's the way it is in their country. I'm sure a lot of women there don't like it but I don't see people jumping up and down.\n\nThe tour did not go well for Matthews who was fined $1,000 for disciplinary reasons. He was dropped from the squad to go to India and Pakistan for the 1987 World Cup in favour of Tim May, in what was described as \"a shock omission\".\n\nIt was later revealed Matthews had an off-field argument over a barbecued steak in Sharjah and was fined $1,000 by Ian McDonald and Bobby Simpson. Steve Waugh thought he \"was being punished largely for previous infractions and perceived attitude problems ... and straight away you could sense that a couple of guys felt their careers might be over\". Bobby Simpson was Matthews' personal manager and the Australian coach and though he had been supportive in his early career, but now wanted a more disciplined team and Matthews did not fit in.\n\nInstead of playing in the World Cup, Matthews went to Zimbabwe with New South Wales. He then represented Australia in the World All-Rounders Cricket Championship.\n\n\"He wasn't fitting in with the team. On many occasions he had breakfast alone, and he wasn't one to spend more time at a bar with the boys when there was a disco on hand. The \"minor\" things were causing a rift – his eating habits, his hair-style, his choice of clothes, or whatever, seemed to be an extra reason why he wasn't one of the boys.\"\nMatthews would remain out of favour with the Australian Test selectors for four years. Despite his 10-wicket haul in the Tied Test his bowling was not of Test standard and his batting average 36.82 was not enough to keep him in the team by itself when David Boon, Allan Border, Dean Jones and Steve Waugh were occupying the middle order.\n\nMatthews performed strongly for New South Wales over the 1987–88 season, including a career best 6–97 with the ball against Victoria. However, Australian selectors preferred Peter Taylor, Tim May and Peter Sleep for their spin options.\n\nMatthews was selected in the Prime Ministers XI to play the touring New Zealand side.\n\nMatthews began the 1988–89 domestic summer strongly and there was some talk he would be able to get back in the test team.\n\nHe was recalled to the Australian one day team for the WSC finals series in 1988–89, as a third spinner. However, he bowled poorly, going for 0–62 off 7 overs. \"I felt sorry for him in a lot of ways\", said Alan Border, \"because I gave him a pretty tough task, bowling in that first 15 overs, and then he had to bowl towards the end when their guys were wacking out.\"\n\nMatthews was overlooked for the 1989 Ashes in favor of Tim May and Trevor Hohns. However, when May fell injured, Matthews was picked in an Australian one day squad to tour India. \"I am just glad to be part of the scene again\", he said. \"I'm stoked.\"\n\nMatthews struggled in the early part of the 1989–90 season and was made 12th man for NSW for some games. He eventually worked his way back into the side and had a strong season, highlights including 10–76 against Tasmania. His excellent bowling in the Sheffield Shield final against Queensland helped New South Wales to victory. \"It's always nice to take wickets, the seven against Tasmania was a career best and a big turn on, and five in the final is a big turn on also\", said Matthews. \"They are all important.\"\n\n\"He was always excellent for the shock-value element, but also a guy who could play better than he probably ever realised and who record as an all-rounder for NSW is unrivalled.\"\nMatthews continued to play well for New South Wales, and his 5–56 against Tasmania was his fourth five-wicket haul in five games.\n\nHe was picked in an Australian XI to play the touring English in Hobart then was picked in the squad for the first test.\n\nPeter Taylor had not proved to be a long-term success and Matthews was the only Australian spinner in the side, apart from Allan Border. There was some talk Matthews would be made 12th man but Border favoured a spinner.\n\n\"I think the best balance is to play a spinner, which means that one of the quickies would have to miss out\", Border said, adding that he was particularly impressed by Matthews' bowling in the Sheffield Shield final the previous summer. \"He was a class above any one else I've faced for a long, long time – and that's anyone in the world.\"\n\nHe made 35 batting at number seven and took 1/30, but Australia won by eight wickets.\n\nHe was omitted in favour of Peter Taylor for the one day team. However, when Taylor fell injured Matthews was called up in his place and played a number of games. Highlights included 3–54 against England. He was eventually dropped from the one day team when Taylor got better.\n\nMatthews kept his place in the test side. He took 3/40 in the Second Test at Melbourne and 2/26 in the Third Test at Sydney, where he also hit 128 with 17 boundaries to lift Australia from 292/5 to 512/9.\n\nHe was overlooked for Peter Taylor in Australia's one day side. However, he took six wickets for New South Wales against England.\n\nIn the Fourth Test at Adelaide he made 65 and 34 not out and 60 not out at Perth in the Fifth.\n\nAustralia won the series 3–0 and Matthews made 353 runs (70.60), his best Test series with the bat, though he only took 7 wickets (60.28). This effort earned Matthews selection on the 1991 tour of the West Indies.\n\nHe was Australia's most successful spin bowler that summer.\n\nMatthews began the West Indies tour well with 95 not out and 4–57 against Jamaica.\n\nHowever, he failed to take any wickets in the first test and Alan Border began to think about replacing him with Steve Waugh.\n\n\"If you are going to play a bowler you don't think is going to take any wickets, what's the point?\" asked Border. \"You might as well go the other way and play Steve Waugh because he's more likely to get a wicket or two. Greg took seven wickets at home and two or three of them came in the second innings in Sydney, when England was slogging. In the first innings, when we wanted to bowl them out, Greg couldn't. It's been a while since our spinner has really played a part in a Test match.\"\n\nMatthews was picked in the second test but was out-bowled by Alan Border.\n\n\"Greg can be a bit too attacking for his own good\", Border said. \"He tends to toss the ball up a bit too much for this sort of wicket. Every time he threw the ball up, it\ndisappeared, either along the ground or over the top. That's why he tends to go for more runs than he should... Next time he gets into this situation, he should think of just trying to bowl maidens and letting them have a crack. On this sort of wicket, you've got\nto be firing in your stock ball and to let the batsman come at you a bit more.\"\n\nSince returning to the test team in early November, Matthews had taken nine wickets at more than 76 runs a piece while conceding 690 runs.\n\n\"The way they've treated Greg, you wonder if he's going to get any wickets and maybe it's time to try Peter\", said Border.\n\nMatthews was dropped for the rest of the tests. Steve Waugh played in two and Peter Taylor in the fifth.\n\nIn addition to this, Matthews encountered embarrassment due to his association with the writer, Roland Fishman. Fishman had written a biography of Matthews in 1986 and accompanied him on the West Indies tour to write a book, \"Calypso Cricket\". The result was highly controversial, speaking about previously-taboo items such as the sex lives of players.\n\n\"I feel devastated\", said Matthews. \"He talks about loyalty and friendship to me.\" Matthews said the author had gone \"behind his back\" and had written an exaggerated account: \"What price loyalty and friend ship? I trusted him because he is a friend of mine. I feel betrayed.\"\n\nAt the beginning of the 1991–92 series, Matthews said he thought he and Peter Taylor were the top spinners in Australia.\n\n\"I would like to think I still stand in the top two at worst\", he said. \"There was only Peter and myself in Adelaide as far as slow bowlers were concerned and we were the only two that went to the West Indies. Although I did not get a lot of wickets in the series last year, I like to think I contributed with bat and ball. I didn't have a lot of opportunities in the West Indies, which was a bummer. With the start of the new season, that's all gone. We are probably both on level terms and I guess whoever performs the\nbest will be given the first opportunity.\"\n\nMatthews scored some useful runs in the FAI Cup Final, with NSW beating WA. He was fined $5,000 for excessive appealing during a Shield game against WA.\n\nMatthews scored 139 against Victoria, one of his best ever innings with the bat. He took four wickets in the same game. NSW coach Steve Rixon said Matthews \"is the pick of the bunch at the moment ... he is the main man as far as spin bowlers go.\"\n\nHowever, the selectors preferred Peter Taylor and Shane Warne for the tests.\n\nMatthews domestic form was excellent. In one game against Queensland he made 85 not out and 67 not out and took 6–63 and 5–70, making him only the seventh player to take more than ten wickets and score more than 100 runs in a Shield game. He was included in the initial 20-man squad for the 1992 World Cup. He took 5–61 against South Australia, 6–89 against Tasmania, and ten wickets against WA.\n\n\"Greg's spin bowling has been outstanding this season\", said NSW captain Geoff Lawson. \"Greg hasn't had that many bats so his 500-odd runs could easily have been 700 in the season. It is a surprise that he hasn't played for Australia because he has clearly been the best all-rounder around and his catching has been superb as well.\"\n\nHe was the first Australian player that century to score over 500 runs and take more than 50 wickets in one Sheffield Shield season. These efforts saw him voted NSW Cricketer of the year and earned him selection on the 13-man Australian squad to tour Sri Lanka in 1992.\n\n\"I have always believed I have been a good ambassador for Australia—that's what I enjoy most about touring—representing my country\nat the highest level\", Matthews said. \"There has never been a time in my career since I was picked for Australia eight years ago that I\nthought I couldn't get back into the Test team.\"\n\nMatthews was picked again for the tour of Sri Lanka and here he did better.\n\nIn the First Test at Colombo he was Man of the Match as he made 6 and 64, took 3/93 and 4/76 and caught Ranjith Madurasinghe off Shane Warne to give Australia a 16 run win.\n\nHe followed this up with 55, 51, 57 and 96 to draw the two following Tests and Australia won the series. Matthews topped the batting aggregates for the series with 329 runs. However, Alan Border said \"Greg's role is to bowl and get wickets. He'll come under the hammer if he goes back to Australia and doesn't take wickets.\"\n\nMatthews began the 1992–93 summer controversially when he was fined 25% of his 1992 players contract for appearing in a magazine crushing a packet of Benson and Hedges cigarettes. He was talking about giving up smoking but Benson and Hedges were a major sponsor of Australian cricket. Matthews' fining was criticised by several anti-smoking activists.\n\nCricket wise he scored 65 helping NSW beat WA.\n\nMatthews was kept on as Australia's spinner for the First Test against the West Indies at the Gabba in 1992–93. \"His performance over the past 12 months has been sensational\", said Border. \"He cops a lot of flak because his strike rate is not as high as some bowlers' but he's a 100 per cent man. It does come down to him taking wickets but I think he can do a job for us.\"\n\nMatthews scored 30 useful runs and dismissed Brian Lara in a controversial stumping decision. However, his bowling was unable to help Australia dismiss the West Indies on the last day (he only took one wicket) and the game ended in a draw.\n\nMatthews was picked in the Australian one day team. However, Shane Warne was drafted into the Australian 12 for the second test and although Matthews took 4–25 against South Australia for NSW in a Sheffield Shield game prior to the test Warne was preferred to Matthews for the final eleven. Warne's 7–52 in the second innings helped Australia win the game and saw him become Australia's first choice spinner.\n\nMatthews was kept on in the Australian 12 for the third test at the Sydney Cricket Ground and played alongside Warne in the final eleven, replacing Mike Whitney.\n\n\"That wicket seems to be just what the doctor ordered for us,\" Border said. \"It looks like it's going to play very well but hopefully assist the spinners. That's basically what we wanted to happen and I'm really happy with it. There's no safety-first stuff and we are going to go straight for the jugular.\"\n\nHe made 79, but was hit for 2/169 as Brian Lara made 277 in the tourists 606.\n\nWith Shane Warne in the side Australia no longer needed Matthews as a spinner, he could not get a place on his batting alone and he never played for the Australian test team again.\n\nHe did keep his place in the one day team that summer. However, his place was threatened by the re emergence of Tim May as an international spinner. \"They've both done a good job but I think Tim May is forcing the issue, he looks to be in really good form\", said Border. \"In Greg's favour is that he bats and fields better than Tim but we've got to make sure Tim is the man to take a few wickets in that middle section a la Peter Taylor. You'd have to say that Greg is better than Tim all-round, but that's probably not what we want from the position. We want the spin bowler to be an attacking one. Getting wickets in that middle session is almost as import ant as getting 0–20. I'd rather the wickets than 0–20.\" Matthews ended up being preferred to May for the one day final series. He bowled well but when it came time to pick the team for the fourth test, Matthews was overlooked in favour of May. May's excellent bowling in that test ensured he was picked over Matthews as Australia's off spinner for the tour of New Zealand.\n\nMatthews bowled well domestically that summer—he took 5–61 against Tasmania, 8–56 against WA. and six wickets against Victoria. His innings of 78 in the Sheffield Shield final was the turning point in the game helping NSW beat Queensland. However, Matthews was overlooked for the Australian tour of England in favour of Warne and May.\n\nMatthews later hinted at politics being behind his lack of test cricket.\nSome guys chew gum. Some chew their nails. Some abuse their team-mates. I played air guitar. I sang to the crowd. I sang to myself and I danced. I said things to the good sorts in the crowd. Can someone please tell me what's wrong with that? People say Mark Waugh was a great player. I think I averaged 41, the same as him, and he played in a team that rarely lost. I played in a side that rarely won. There's one reason why I didn't play more and the brothers [translation: his Australian team-mates] know the reasons why I wasn't picked, and it wasn't because my bowling average was 48. I can't say why; I'm going to write it myself.\n\nShane Warne and Tim May were very successful on the 1993 Ashes tour, and making breaking back into the Australian team hard for Matthews.\n\nAt the beginning of the 1993–94 season he pulled out of the NSW one day team for personal reasons and was sacked from the Sheffield Shield side, the first time he had been dropped from NSW in a decade. However, he was soon back in the side and took 4–82 and 7–99 against Tasmania.\n\nMatthews travelled to Perth with the NSW team to play WA. Several players went out to a nightclub; Matthews stayed on his own and got in a fight, winding up in hospital. \"To be out at 4am in the morning is not a good example for young cricketers\", said NSW managed Neil Marks. Matthews had bruising inside his skull and spent several days in hospital. He decided not to pursue legal action. Matthews was unable to force his way back into the NSW team that season; they still won the Sheffield Shield.\n\nMatthews endured more controversy over the winter firing a toy pistol at a shop assistant. He was overlooked by NSW selectors at the beginning of the 1994–95 season. However, his club form was good and NSW struggled at the beginning of the season, so Matthews was recalled. Matthews had a reasonable summer, his form improving towards the end.\n\nMatthews continued to be an integral member of the NSW side during the 1995–96 season. \"Cricket's my thing\", Matthews said. \"I just love playing it. What can I tell you—it's just my thing... The mind is very willing and the body is still pretty strong.\"\n\nBy this stage Matthews was well known for a series of TV ads he did for Advance Hair Studio.\n\nGreg Matthews was appointed captain of NSW for the 1996–97 season. Coach Geoff Lawson said:\nGreg's a very different character. I played with him on debut, I captained him, but he's never been my kind of person. I don't know that he's anybody's kind of person for that matter. But, when it came to playing the game, he could play—he's dedicated, talented and he got the job done. The selectors took a huge gamble in making him captain, a gamble that unequivocally didn't pay off ... I thought on the field he'd be a very astute tactical leader. He proved me very wrong in that regard. I know him as well as anybody. I went for him in the final washup and it was a huge error.\n\nIn September 1997 Matthews became the New South Wales representative of the Australian Cricketers' Association, which had been formed in August on the 1997 tour of England.\n\n1997–98 was his last summer of first-class cricket. His last first-class game was against New Zealand; Matthews scored 71.\n\nMatthews continued to play in the Sydney Grade Cricket competition for the University of Sydney team and had a bowling average of 11.04 for the 2008 season. On 24 January 2009, he bowled Australia opener Phil Jaques for 5 with his first ball when Sydney University was playing Sutherland. In 2009 he co-hosted SBS televisions coverage of The Ashes series alongside former Test players Stuart MacGill and Damien Martyn. In 2012 he began to coach part-time for The Sydney Grammar Cricket Club at all-age groups. \n\nBy the 1985–86 season, Matthews's eccentric personality was seen as making him a very saleable commodity. With the Australian cricket coach Bobby Simpson as his manager, he soon became a wealthy man, endorsing a range or products, until he and Simpson fell out. He later set up cricket coaching clinics with Steve Waugh and Brad McNamara in 1991–92. However, the distraction of having agents and pushing products unsettled his career, and he was \"not so good that he can succeed in high company with giving his game everything he has\". In the mid-1990s, Matthews was employed as a high-profile spokesman for hair regrowth company, Advanced Hair Studio, featuring in a series of advertisements in which he popularised the catchphrase, \"Advanced Hair, yeah, yeah!\" Fellow cricketers Graham Gooch, Martin Crowe and Shane Warne later went on to spruik for the same company.\n"}
{"id": "2291840", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291840", "title": "Marquetta Goodwine", "text": "Marquetta Goodwine\n\nMarquetta L. Goodwine, who was elected Queen Quet, Chieftess of the Gullah/Geechee Nation, is a native of St. Helena Island, South Carolina. She is an author, preservationist, and performance artist. The Gullah/Geechee corridor begins in North Carolina and extends southward to Jacksonville, Florida, encompassing the Sea Islands and the Lowcountry.\n\nGoodwine is the founder of the Gullah/Geechee Sea Island Coalition. In 1999 she became the first Gullah to speak before the United Nations, giving testimony at an April 1 hearing of the Commission on Human Rights in Switzerland. She has since been invited to participate in the United Nations Forum on Minority Rights which was first established in 2008.\n\nGoodwine is also the Chair of the Gullah/Geechee Cultural Heritage Corridor General Management Plan and Expert Commissioner for South Carolina. She is a member of the 15-person commission established by the United States Gullah/Geechee Cultural Heritage Act which was passed by the United States Congress.\n\nGoodwine served as a consultant for the 2000 Mel Gibson film \"The Patriot\", which featured scenes set on the South Carolina coast of the Gullah/Geechee Nation. She has been an advisor to several historic documentaries, including \"This Far by Faith: The African American Religious Experience\", \"The Rise and Fall of Jim Crow\", \"Slavery and the Making of America\", \"Reconstruction: The Second Civil War\", and \"The Will to Survive: The Story of the Gullah/Geechee Nation\". She also lectures throughout the world.\n\nShe is the founder of a historic presentation troupe \"De Gullah Cunneckshun\", which has recorded several CDs and been featured on films and film soundtracks.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2291842", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291842", "title": "The Duke of Edinburgh's Hillary Award", "text": "The Duke of Edinburgh's Hillary Award\n\nThe Duke of Edinburgh's Hillary Award, also known as The Duke of Edinburgh's Award, is a New Zealand award modelled on The Duke of Edinburgh's Award. The name of the award is a reference to the famous New Zealand mountaineer Sir Edmund Hillary.\n\nThe Duke of Edinburgh’s Hillary Award is a voluntary, non-competitive programme of practical, cultural and adventurous activities, designed to support the personal and social development of young people aged 14–25, regardless of gender, background or ability. It offers an individual challenge and encourages young people to undertake exciting, constructive, challenging and enjoyable activities in their free time.\n\nThe mission of The Duke of Edinburgh’s Hillary Award Programme in New Zealand is to have young people, regardless of cultural, ethnic and socio-economic background, participating in an exciting, flexible and individually tailored programme, to build skills, identity and self-esteem.\n\nApproximately 9000 young New Zealanders' undertake the award every year.\n\nThe constitution of the Award in New Zealand was drawn up on 19 July 1963 during the inaugural meeting of the National Council of The Duke of Edinburgh's Award in New Zealand held at Government House, Wellington.\n\nThe award was renamed from \"The Duke of Edinburgh's Award\" to \"Duke of Edinburgh's Hillary Award\" in 2009 following the death of Sir Edmund Hillary. It has also been known as \"The Young New Zealanders Challenge of the Duke of Edinburgh’s Hillary Award\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2291843", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291843", "title": "Tishomingo Blues", "text": "Tishomingo Blues\n\n\"Tishomingo Blues\" is a song by Spencer Williams. The tune was first published in 1917. The title refers to Tishomingo, Mississippi.\n\nThe song was first recorded in 1918 by Eddie Nelson on Emerson Records #913. It became a jazz standard, and continues to be performed and recorded into the 21st century. The song has been adapted with different lyrics as the theme song of \"A Prairie Home Companion\".\n\nFirst verse\n\nChorus\n\nSecond verse\n\nRepeat Chorus\n\n"}
{"id": "2291849", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291849", "title": "Steven Sabados", "text": "Steven Sabados\n\nSteven Sabados is a Canadian television host, designer and writer, who frequently appeared in television programs with his husband and business partner Chris Hyndman (b. March 3, 1966 – d. August 3, 2015) and as one of the hosts of \"The Goods\", a daytime talk show on CBC Television.\n\nBorn and raised in Niagara Falls, Ontario, Sabados attended Fanshawe College in London, Ontario where he graduated in 1986 with a diploma in fine art. Moving to Toronto, Sabados became display director for Eatons and Roots Canada, and opened the Sabados Group, Inc., a design firm.\n\nAlong with Hyndman, Sabados starred in the first three seasons of \"Designer Guys\", a Canadian design show on HGTV Canada. In 2004, they debuted a new show with a similar format, entitled \"Design Rivals\", and a makeover show called \"So Chic with Steven and Chris\". From 2008 to 2015, he co-hosted the afternoon talk show \"Steven and Chris\" with Hyndman. It aired first on CBC Television in Canada and subsequently on the Live Well Network in the United States. Sabados chose not to continue the show on his own or with a new cohost following Hyndman's death in 2015, resulting in its cancellation.\n\nSabados frequently appears as a guest expert on various television shows and as a guest columnist in various design magazines. In an interview given on May 23, 2016 Sabados announced that he would be returning as one of several co-hosts, alongside Jessi Cruickshank and other hosts still to be named, of a new lifestyle program on CBC Television in October 2016. The series was later announced under the title \"The Goods\", with the other two hosts named as Andrea Bain and Shahir Massoud.\n\nSabados is openly gay. Despite he and Hyndman being an off-screen couple since 1988, they did not publicly acknowledge their relationship until 2007. They married in 2008 and remained a couple until Hyndman's death on August 3, 2015.\n\n"}
{"id": "2291851", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291851", "title": "Oberuzwil", "text": "Oberuzwil\n\nOberuzwil is a municipality in the \"Wahlkreis\" (constituency) of Wil in the canton of St. Gallen in Switzerland.\n\nOberuzwil is first mentioned in 819 as \"Uzzinwilare\". In 1382 it was mentioned as \"Obren Utzwille\". The village of Bichwil was first mentioned in 865 as \"Pichilinwilare\" and Niederglatt was mentioned in 1336 as \"Nidernglat\".\n\nOberuzwil has an area, , of . Of this area, 59.7% is used for agricultural purposes, while 25.9% is forested. Of the rest of the land, 13.2% is settled (buildings or roads) and the remainder (1.3%) is non-productive (rivers or lakes).\n\nThe municipality is located in the Wil \"Wahlkreis.\" It consists of the villages of Oberuzwil, Bichwil and Niederglatt and the hamlets of Buechen, Wilen, Riggenschwil, Oberrindal, Ramsau as well as scattered farm houses.\n\nBettenauer Weiher is located at the border to Jonschwil.\n\nThe blazon of the municipal coat of arms is \"Azure a Mill Wheel Argent and a Barrulet wavy abased, and in Base per pale chequy Argent and Gules a Chief Argent and Argent two Bends Sable.\"\n\nOberuzwil has a population (as of ) of . , about 14.7% of the population was made up of foreign nationals. Of the foreign population, (), 85 are from Germany, 92 are from Italy, 401 are from ex-Yugoslavia, 36 are from Austria, 42 are from Turkey, and 78 are from another country. Over the last 10 years the population has grown at a rate of 6.2%. Most of the population () speaks German (91.4%), with Serbo-Croatian being second most common ( 2.6%) and Albanian being third ( 1.9%). Of the Swiss national languages (), 5,048 speak German, 19 people speak French, 65 people speak Italian, and 8 people speak Romansh.\n\nThe age distribution, , in Oberuzwil is; 730 children or 13.2% of the population are between 0 and 9 years old and 823 teenagers or 14.9% are between 10 and 19. Of the adult population, 569 people or 10.3% of the population are between 20 and 29 years old. 866 people or 15.7% are between 30 and 39, 812 people or 14.7% are between 40 and 49, and 671 people or 12.2% are between 50 and 59. The senior population distribution is 470 people or 8.5% of the population are between 60 and 69 years old, 357 people or 6.5% are between 70 and 79, there are 198 people or 3.6% who are between 80 and 89, and there are 25 people or 0.5% who are between 90 and 99.\n\nIn the 2007 federal election the most popular party was the SVP which received 34% of the vote. The next three most popular parties were the CVP (23.1%), the FDP (16.4%) and the SP (12.1%).\n\nIn Oberuzwil about 74.3% of the population (between age 25-64) have completed either non-mandatory upper secondary education or additional higher education (either university or a \"Fachhochschule\"). Out of the total population in Oberuzwil, , the highest education level completed by 1,093 people (19.8% of the population) was Primary, while 2,033 (36.8%) have completed their secondary education, 644 (11.7%) have attended a Tertiary school, and 220 (4.0%) are not in school. The remainder did not answer this question.\n\nThe historical population is given in the following table:\nThe hamlet of Niederglatt is designated as part of the Inventory of Swiss Heritage Sites.\n\n, Oberuzwil had an unemployment rate of 1.72%. , there were 187 people employed in the primary economic sector and about 69 businesses involved in this sector. 603 people are employed in the secondary sector and there are 56 businesses in this sector. 816 people are employed in the tertiary sector, with 161 businesses in this sector.\n\nFrom the , 2,633 or 47.7% are Roman Catholic, while 1,762 or 31.9% belonged to the Swiss Reformed Church. Of the rest of the population, there are 2 individuals (or about 0.04% of the population) who belong to the Christian Catholic faith, there are 169 individuals (or about 3.06% of the population) who belong to the Orthodox Church, and there are 223 individuals (or about 4.04% of the population) who belong to another Christian church. There is 1 individual who is Jewish, and 190 (or about 3.44% of the population) who are Islamic. There are 23 individuals (or about 0.42% of the population) who belong to another church (not listed on the census), 352 (or about 6.38% of the population) belong to no church, are agnostic or atheist, and 166 individuals (or about 3.01% of the population) did not answer the question.\n"}
{"id": "2291853", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291853", "title": "Chris Hyndman", "text": "Chris Hyndman\n\nChristopher Edward \"Chris\" Hyndman (March 3, 1966 – August 3, 2015) was a Canadian interior decorator and television personality, who was co-host of the afternoon talk show \"Steven and Chris\" on CBC Television until his death in August 2015.\n\nHyndman worked in the makeup department of the Hudson's Bay Company before becoming a makeup artist for Citytv at the invitation of television personality Jeanne Beker.\n\nHyndman and his husband Steven Sabados launched the interior design firm Sabados Group in 1992.\n\nAside from private clientele, they also did set design work for various television productions in the Toronto area, and later starred in the first three seasons of \"Designer Guys\", a Canadian design show. In 2004, Sabados and Hyndman debuted a new show with a similar format, titled \"Design Rivals\", and a makeover show called \"So Chic with Steven and Chris\" in 2005.\n\nAccording to Beker, Hyndman did not originally have aspirations of becoming a television personality himself, but was active in supporting Sabados' goals while being personally content to work behind the scenes. He became an on-air personality, initially reluctantly, only when a television producer suggested that they work together as a duo because of their unique and telegenic chemistry.\n\nHyndman was born in Ottawa and grew up in the Avalon Peninsula of Newfoundland and Labrador. He first met Sabados through mutual friends at a Toronto bar in 1988. They moved in together three months later. Despite being a longtime couple off-screen, they did not publicly acknowledge their relationship until 2007. They married a year later.\n\nOn August 3, 2015, Hyndman was found unresponsive in a laneway directly below the condominium unit he shared with Sabados in Toronto, shortly after 11 p.m. EDT. He was pronounced dead shortly after. He was 49 years old. Hyndman and Sabados had just returned from a vacation in Barbados one day earlier.\n\nWhile no confirmed cause of death has been released, the Toronto Police indicated that it was not considered a criminal matter, leading many to suspect it may have been a suicide. Two days after his death, his mother told the media that Hyndman was a sleepwalker, and she believes he fell off the couple's balcony during a sleep walk. In May 2016, Sabados said he does not share this view.\n\nFollowing Hyndman's death, production and airing of \"Steven and Chris\" was suspended pending a decision from Sabados on whether he wanted to continue the show on his own or with a new co-host. On August 21, 2015, Sabados announced that he would not continue the show, resulting in its cancellation. In May 2016, Sabados gave his first in-depth media interview since Hyndman's death, telling Heather Hiscox of CBC News that Hyndman was the \"idea guy\" in their personal and professional partnership. Around the same time, Sabados announced that he was creating a new daytime talk show, \"The Goods\", to premiere on CBC in fall 2016 with co-hosts Jessi Cruickshank, Andrea Bain and Shahir Massoud. According to Sabados, while he couldn't imagine returning to television on his own or with a single replacement co-host for Hyndman, the new show's four-host panel format felt more comforting and freeing for him.\n\n"}
{"id": "2291856", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291856", "title": "Designer Guys", "text": "Designer Guys\n\nDesigner Guys was a Canadian design show on HGTV, created by Mary Darling and produced by WestWind Pictures.\n\nDebuting in 2001, the first seasons were hosted by Chris Hyndman and Steven Sabados. They hosted until 2004, when they were offered a deal with Alliance Atlantis to create a new series, \"Design Rivals\".\n\nAfter they departed, the show was relaunched in 2005 with new hosts Matt Davis, Allen Chan and Anwar Mekhayech, partners at The Design Agency. Whereas the original Hyndman/Sabados incarnation of the show concentrated primarily on interior design, the new version took on larger renovation projects. Producer Mary Darling compared the process of relaunching the show to \"trying to recast \"The Odd Couple\"\". The second version of the show remained in production until 2008.\n\nIn one of the most noted episodes of the second incarnation, Davis, Chan and Mekhayech travelled to Dawson City, Yukon to redesign the childhood home of Canadian literary icon Pierre Berton as a writer's retreat.\n\nThe original Hyndman-Sabados era has also been credited as one of the innovators of a shift in home design reality programming in the early 2000s, as one of the first such programs to be hosted not by a single designer depicting only the conventional parts of the renovation process, but by a pair of designers who allowed their debates and conflicts over design choices to be depicted as part of the series.\n"}
{"id": "2291860", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291860", "title": "1829 in archaeology", "text": "1829 in archaeology\n\n1829 in archaeology\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2291862", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291862", "title": "The Death of Jean DeWolff", "text": "The Death of Jean DeWolff\n\n\"The Death of Jean DeWolff\" is a four-part story arc featuring the popular Marvel Comics comic book superhero Spider-Man. It comprises the comics \"Peter Parker, the Spectacular Spider-Man\" #107–110 (October 1985 – January 1986). The story was written by Peter David, penciled by Rich Buckler, and inked by Brett Breeding, Josef Rubinstein, Kyle Baker and Pat Redding. It was the second professional comic book writing assignment for David and the beginning of his \"break\" into comic book writing.\n\nIn this arc, Peter Parker (Spider-Man) hunts down the person who murdered police captain Jean DeWolff, one of his closest friends.\n\nOn the first page of \"Part 4: All My Sins Remembered\", when Spider-Man remembers his teenage past with Betty Brant, the flashback panels are reprints of panels from earlier issues of \"Amazing Spider-Man\"; e.g. the third panel is from \"Amazing Spider-Man\" #41.\n\nAfter capturing a trio of muggers assaulting Ernie Popchik (an elderly tenant of his Aunt May's), Spider-Man learns that his close friend NYPD Captain Jean DeWolff has been killed in her sleep. Spider-Man confronts the police officer in charge of the investigation, Sergeant Stan Carter. Carter tells him Jean was killed by a close-range double-barreled shotgun blast, and that her badge is missing.\n\nMeanwhile, attorney Matt Murdock (the civilian identity of Daredevil) is assigned to represent Popchik's muggers at their arraignment; he succeeds in getting them released without bail, and through his super-senses also finds out Spider-Man's secret identity as Peter Parker when the latter attends the trial in May's and Popchik's company. However, he is disgusted by his clients' rowdy behavior, and speaks with the judge presiding over the case — his friend and mentor, Horace Rosenthal — about his misgivings with doing pro bono publico work. During their talk he senses an armed and masked intruder in Rosenthal's chamber. After Rosenthal leaves, the intruder introduces himself as the Sin-Eater and tries to shoot Murdock. Hearing the commotion, Rosenthal returns and is shot by the Sin-Eater. The Sin-Eater then escapes through the window.\n\nOn the streets outside, Spider-Man responds to the panic aroused by the Sin-Eater's appearance. He opens fire on Spider-Man, who leaps above the scattergun blasts. The bullets hit a crowd of bystanders. During their fight, Spider-Man spots a gavel and a badge on the Sin-Eater's belt, and realizes he must be the one who killed Jean DeWolff. However, when he sees Aunt May lying senseless on the ground, he allows the Sin-Eater to escape so that he can help her.\n\nSpider-Man successfully petitions Carter for unofficial approval to search DeWolff's apartment. Carter also reveals the folklore behind the term sin-eater, and mentions that he is a former S.H.I.E.L.D. agent. Spider-Man is unable to find any clues in DeWolff's apartment, but discovers a collection of news clippings indicating that she was romantically interested in him. While at Rosenthal's funeral, Murdock recognizes Sin-Eater's heartbeat among those attending DeWollf's funeral nearby, but there are too many mourners for him to pick out which one is the Sin-Eater. Later that night, the Sin-Eater approaches the priest who officiated Jean's funeral, Father Bernard Finn, and shoots him.\n\nA media circus breaks out in the city over the Sin-Eater murders, with an opportunistic community leader, Reverend Jackson Tulliver, feeding the flames of public discontent. Spider-Man learns that one of the bystanders hit by the bullets he dodged died from his wounds; Carter assuages Spider-Man's guilt over this. Daredevil and Spider-Man separately comb the underworld, but are unable to find anyone with knowledge of the Sin-Eater.\n\nThe Sin-Eater enters the \"Daily Bugle\" building, demanding to see J. Jonah Jameson (who is actually on vacation). \"Bugle\" editor-in-chief Joe Robertson acts as a decoy, and Parker throws a typewriter roller, knocking the Sin-Eater out. The Sin-Eater is identified as Emil Gregg. Gregg has no memory of committing the murders, but claims that voices ordered each one the night before. Convinced that he couldn't resist the voices, he instead went on his mission to kill Jameson early, in the hope that things would then go wrong and he would be caught. However, Daredevil arrives to hear Gregg's confession, and does not recognize Gregg's heartbeat as that of the Sin-Eater he encountered before.\n\nDaredevil tells Spider-Man that Emil Gregg must be a copycat. Spider-Man is skeptical, since Gregg has a history of mental instability and knows details of the murders that weren't released to the public, so Daredevil takes him to Gregg's apartment in hope of finding some proof of his innocence. Once there, Daredevil finds the door to the next apartment has been recently jimmied. Some unopened mail reveals the apartment is Stan Carter's, and Daredevil opens a closet to find shotguns, Sin-Eater costumes, and a tape recorder. He deduces that Gregg's \"voices in the night\" were actually Carter recording his war journal next door. He also notes that there are two empty gun holsters; Gregg broke into Carter's apartment to take one shotgun, but the other must have been taken by Carter to kill J. Jonah Jameson. Spider-Man realizes Carter is headed to the Jameson house and will most likely kill the only two people there: Jonah's wife Marla and secretary Betty Leeds, who is also the first person Spider-Man fell in love with. He calls the Bugle building and gets the house number from Robertson, then calls there. The phone picks up and he briefly hears Betty's voice, but as he tries to warn her, the only further response he receives is the sound of a shotgun being fired.\n\nSpider-Man races to the Jameson house to avenge Betty. When he arrives, however, he finds that Betty is alive, having fended off the Sin-Eater for the past few minutes. Spider-Man defeats Carter and begins beating him mercilessly, not stopping even after he loses consciousness. Daredevil arrives and pulls him away. Spider-Man refuses to back off, and the two superheroes fight. Daredevil taunts Spider-Man, using his enraged emotional state against him, and finally knocks him unconscious.\n\nStan Carter is brought to jail, and the news that the Sin-Eater was a policeman shocks the city. Mr. Popchik \"snaps\" at the news and takes his World War II service pistol into the city, determined to prove he is not defenseless. While riding a New York City Subway train, he is threatened by three teenage muggers. He pulls his gun and shoots them, leaving them wounded, and then turns himself in. The police are informed by agents of S.H.I.E.L.D. that Carter was a subject of experiments with modifications of PCP, explaining both his superpowers and his activities as Sin-Eater. Plans to transfer Carter to the prison on Riker's Island leak to the press, and an angry mob besieges the police station. With some riot-geared officers working up a distraction, the police try to board Carter onto a truck, but the mob, led by Jean DeWolff's stepfather, forces itself onto the police, threatening to lynch Carter. Daredevil throws himself in between, but is overwhelmed by the mob. When Spider-Man turns his back, Daredevil cries out \"Peter!\". Realizing the mob will kill Daredevil if he doesn't intervene, Spider-Man swings both Carter and Daredevil to safety. After the crowd is dispersed, Carter is safely loaded onto the police truck. Daredevil then reveals his own secret identity to Spider-Man, and after discussing the latter's recent disillusionment for the criminal justice system, Matt offers to arrange for a lawyer for Mr. Popchik through pro bono publico in order to prove his side of the argument.\n\nCreated by Bill Mantlo and Sal Buscema, the acerbic Jean DeWolff had been a supporting character in the \"Spider-Man\" comics since her first appearance in \"Marvel Team-Up\" #48 (August 1976), and was familiar to readers as one of Spider-Man's few allies in the police force. According to Peter David, \"The Death of Jean DeWolff\" came about at the behest of Jim Owsley, at that time editor of the \"Spider-Man\" books: \"I was going to be started on \"Spectacular Spider-Man\" and editor Jim Oswley wanted to shake up Spider-Man and the fans. He wanted to see a story in which Jean DeWolff was killed and there were all sorts of cover ups in the police department. So in answer to the second most-asked question I get at conventions, the answer is – Owsley wanted to kill her. Not me. I actually had storylines planned with her alive.\"\n\nOwsley himself said, \"I didn't much care for the whimsical tone of \"Spectacular Spider-Man\", and tried to nudge writer Al Milgrom out of the seat in favor of the brilliant newcomer Peter David... I put Peter David and Rich Buckler on \"Spectacular\", focusing on stories with a serious, \"grown-up\" tone and more complex themes.\" David combined Owsley's idea of killing off Jean DeWolff with story ideas of his own: \"I wanted to do a story in which Spider-Man was confronted by a villain who committed crimes so heinous, so appalling, that Spider-Man was pushed to the edge and over. It always struck me as unrealistic how super heroes could turn fights on and off. When you're in a fistfight, adrenaline flows, your heart is thumping. If you knock the guy down and he's not getting up, most times you kick him because you're so pumped and angry. You don't back off and say \"Had enough?\" Usually someone has to pull you off the guy. I wanted to do that to Spider-Man because I felt it would bring some hard-edged reality to him. I also wanted to do a story underscoring the philosophical differences between Daredevil and Spider-Man... \"The Death of Jean DeWolff\" incorporated all three stories to varying degrees. This was accomplished when Owsley came over to my house early one evening and stayed until after midnight as we hammered out all the kinks in the story in a marathon, four-issue's-worth head-banging session.\"\n\nJim Owsley has recalled the impact of the shotgun-blast ending of Part 3 of the story, \"a cliffhanger so intense, in fact, that we briefly considered pulling it. It scared the crap out of \"me\", and I was 23. I was imagining soccer moms buying [\"Spectacular Spider-Man\"] for their kids by rote, not realizing Sin-Eater was blowing away Betty Brant Leeds inside.\"\n\nPeter David revealed that the idea of the Sin-Eater came from an identically-named character in the 1979 television film \"The Incredible Journey of Doctor Meg Laurel\", as well as claiming that \"virtually no readers, judging by the letters, tumbled to Stan Carter being the Sin-Eater, even though much of his dialogue fairly screamed it. I knew they wouldn't. First off, I named him Stan. Stan is a friendly name to readers after years of association with Stan Lee. Second, I made him Jewish. Isaac Asimov said if you want to have someone who evil intent must be hidden, make him Jewish and have him speak in semi-Yiddish inverted sentence order. You know. Like Yoda. (\"So a murderer that makes me?\") Readers will mentally categorize this as someone who is friendly and even comic relief.\"\n\nDavid also praised the story's artist, Rich Buckler, \"whose dynamic and energetic storytelling and gritty texture brought the story to pulsing life. He gave it the kind of down-and-dirty feeling that we were looking for. Kind of Spidey meets \"Hill Street Blues\".\"\n\n\"Part 3: He Who is Without Sin\" has a scene in which the Kingpin dictates a letter to a prospective assassin-for-hire, \"Ms C.B. Kalish.\" This name is an in-joke in reference to Carol B. Kalish, at that time, Marvel's Direct Sales Manager and Vice President of New Product Development. Kalish was a good friend of Peter David, who worked under her as a sales assistant. David credited Kalish with having made him a comics industry professional.\n\nAt the time of its original publication, \"The Death of Jean DeWolff\" was considered to be a groundbreaking comic book story. Peter David commented that \"we flew in the face of standard comic book tradition by giving a character, not a noble death in battle at the climax of the story, but an inglorious death, in her sleep, at the beginning.\" The antagonist of the story is not a supervillain with fantastic powers, but a psychopathic vigilante with a shotgun; also, rather than presenting the bylines at the beginning of each installment, the white-on-black credits were presented in the last panel of each chapter.\n\n\"The Death of Jean DeWolff\" is still considered to be one of the most popular and acclaimed Spider-Man arcs, collected by \"Wizard Magazine\" in its \"Best of Spider-Man\" hardcover edition. \"Comics Bulletin\" called the story an exploration of \"moral relativism amongst superheroes, the flaws of the criminal justice system, and the feelings of rage and desire for vengeance\", lauded the \"organic and convincing\" clash of values between idealist Daredevil and pragmatic Spider-Man. Daredevil is seen as more mature, but also \"selfish\" (he kept his secret identity instead of saving the judge's life), and Spider-Man is seen as \"righteous, but blinded\" for doing what his conscience tells him but giving in to bloodlust. The arc was called \"not perfect, but successful and dark\" and was given four out of five stars.\n\nPeter David has recalled mixed emotions about the arc: in a 1990 installment of \"But I Digress\", his then-weekly column in the \"Comics Buyer's Guide\", David stated he was unnerved by the stream of fan mail demanding he bring DeWolff back, and how \"Spidey Editor Jim Owsley was even told by confident fans at an Atlanta Con, \"Nah, she's not really dead.\"\" David however firmly refused to bring her back, arguing a resurrection in a comic book death-style would weaken the story. David also stated that this story established him as a writer, but he was also pigeonholed as a writer of grim and gritty stories. In 1990, David conceded that \"people still tell me that \"The Death of Jean DeWolff\" is their favourite of my work.\"\n\n\"The Death of Jean DeWolff\" includes a subplot involving a thief dressed as Santa Claus. This storyline was resolved in \"Peter Parker, the Spectacular Spider-Man\" #112 (Mar. 1986); in this same issue, it is revealed that Ernie Popchik was released from jail after the grand jury refused to indict him. In \"Mayhem!\" (\"Peter Parker, the Spectacular Spider-Man\" #113, Apr. 1986), Mr. Popchik, hounded by the media, returns to Aunt May's boarding home. The muggers he shot at, seeking revenge, break into the home and take Mr. Popchik, Aunt May, and the other boarders hostage. Spider-Man manages to subdue three of the muggers, before defeating the leader by webbing his gun. Aunt May's fiancé, Nathan Lubensky, opens the blinds, and a police sniper outside shoots and kills the leader. Aunt May is unnerved by Nathan's actions, which led to the youth being killed unnecessarily. Mr. Popchik feels guilty for causing the situation and leaves Aunt May's home.\n\nPeter David brought the Sin-Eater back in \"The Spectacular Spider-Man\" #134–136 (Jan.-March 1988), drawn by Sal Buscema and inked by Vince Colletta. This storyline (informally known as \"Return of the Sin-Eater\") explores the origin of the Sin-Eater and his attempted rehabilitation. Set approximately one year after \"The Death of Jean DeWolff\", the sequel reveals that after his arrest, Carter was put in psychological and medical care. S.H.I.E.L.D. purged all the drugs from his system, but Carter still had visions of his Sin-Eater persona, as well as being unable to walk or talk properly. After his release, Carter has trouble readjusting to society, and is haunted by visions of the Sin-Eater, as well as having to deal with continuing public outrage over his crimes. Finally succumbing to his madness, Carter puts on a Sin-Eater costume, takes an unloaded shotgun, and goads the police into opening fire on him. Peter David described the conclusion of this story as a \"dramatic, tragic, and perhaps, merciful ending\" for Stan Carter.\n\n\"The Amazing Spider-Man\" #300 (May 1988) reveals that \"Daily Globe\" journalist Eddie Brock wrote an exposé of the man who claimed to be the Sin-Eater, Emil Gregg. The revelation of Stan Carter being the real Sin-Eater led to Brock being fired and losing his wife. An angry Brock blames Spider-Man for the derailing of his career and life, the catalyst which resulted in his becoming the super-villain Venom. This story, written by David Michelinie, includes the retcon that Gregg's claim to be the Sin-Eater was publicly revealed via a newspaper story by Eddie Brock, instead of by Gregg's confession to the police.\n\nThe Ultimate Marvel version of Jean DeWolff (Jeanne DeWolfe) died in \"Ultimate Spider-Man Annual\" #2 by Brian Michael Bendis and Mark Brooks. She was shot by the Punisher (who has a similar modus operandi to the Sin-Eater, but is usually shown as a protagonist) for being corrupt.\n\nThe storyline has been collected as a trade paperback and as a hardcover:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2291886", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291886", "title": "Dorsal venous arch of the foot", "text": "Dorsal venous arch of the foot\n\nThe dorsal venous arch of the foot is a superficial vein that connects the small saphenous vein and the great saphenous vein. Anatomically, it is defined by where the dorsal veins of the first and fifth digit, respectively, meet the great saphenous vein and small saphenous vein.\n\nIt is usually fairly easy to palpate and visualize (if the patient is barefoot). It lies superior to the metatarsal bones approximately midway between the ankle joint and metatarsal phalangeal joints.\n"}
{"id": "2291888", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291888", "title": "1852 in archaeology", "text": "1852 in archaeology\n\n1852 in archaeology\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2291892", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291892", "title": "Problematica", "text": "Problematica\n\nProblematica can be:\n"}
{"id": "2291894", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291894", "title": "The Amazing Mr. X", "text": "The Amazing Mr. X\n\nThe Amazing Mr. X, also known as The Spiritualist, is a 1948 American horror thriller film noir directed by Bernard Vorhaus with cinematography by John Alton. The film tells the story of a phony spiritualist racket. The film is prominently featured in Alton's book on cinematography \"Painting with Light\" (1949).\n\nThe film stars Turhan Bey, Lynn Bari, Cathy O'Donnell, and Richard Carlson. Eagle-Lion Films signed a contract with Carole Landis for the part played by Bari, but Landis committed suicide a few days before filming began. The film is in the public domain.\n\nTwo years after her husband's death, Christine Faber (Lynn Bari) thinks she hears her late husband (Donald Curtis) calling out of the surf on the beach one night. She meets a tall dark man named Alexis (Turhan Bey) who seems to know all about her.\n\nAfter more ghostly manifestations, Christine and her younger sister (Cathy O'Donnell) become enmeshed in the strange life of Alexis, a spiritualist; but he in turn finds himself manipulated into deeper devilry than he had in mind. Alexis has hired Emily (Virginia Gregg) as Christine's maid to learn secret inside information. Sister Janet checks out Alexis only to fall in love with him. Christine gets engaged to Martin (Richard Carlson) and he hires a detective (Harry Mendoza) to protect Christine.\n\nAlexis puts on a convincing séance and afterward the real Paul Faber appears. He had faked his own death and now Alexis must continue his con in concert with Paul. Christine hears Paul's voice and falls off a cliff only to be saved by Alexis and Janet. Martin wants Christine to leave her house for safety. Christine wants to hear Paul's voice and his piano music. Janet starts to search the house for speakers and she finds Alexis and the alive Paul. Alexis protects Janet but he is shot. The police arrive and shoot and kill Paul.\n\n\nThe film was known as \"The Spiritualist\". It was an original story by Crane Wilbur and was bought by Producers Releasing Corporation in 1947 with Wilbur to direct.\n\nEventually the project was acquired by Eagle Lion as a vehicle for Turhan Bey who was under contract to the studio. Bernard Vorhaus was to direct and Muriel Bolton to adapt the story into a script. Vorhaus did the film under a two-picture deal he signed with Eagle Lion. The other lead roles went to Lynn Bari and Cathy O'Donnell; the latter was borrowed from Sam Goldwyn.\nCrane would go on to become one of Eagle Lion's main writers. Vorhaus later said he was unhappy with the script however and asked for a rewrite. He says producer Ben Stoloff allowed him to hire Ian McLellan Hunter who rewrote the script in a week.\n\nFilming started 5 January 1948. Vorhaus says the shoot went for three weeks.\n\nBey was under contract to Eagle Lion. He later recalled the film as \"a fantastic role with wonderful people to work with and a lovely death scene I completely loused up... I just wish all my roles had been as interesting as that one.\"\n\nAt one stage the film was also known as \"The Mystic\".\n\nAt previews, audiences found parts of the film to be funny, resulting in unintended laughter.\n\nEagle Lion were happy with the film. However when Vorhaus turned down the next movie they offered him, \"I Married a Communist\", the company terminated its association with him.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2291906", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291906", "title": "Richard Luce, Baron Luce", "text": "Richard Luce, Baron Luce\n\nRichard Napier Luce, Baron Luce, (born 14 October 1936) is former Lord Chamberlain to the Queen from 2000 to 2006, and has been Governor of Gibraltar, a Conservative Member of Parliament (MP) and Government Minister. He now sits as a crossbench peer.\n\nBorn in Westminster, Luce was educated at Wellington College, and Christ's College, Cambridge. He completed National Service in Cyprus 1955–57, serving as a second lieutenant with the Wiltshire Regiment. He then briefly joined the Overseas Civil Service, first as a District Officer in Kenya, 1960–62. He then worked for Gallaher Ltd as a brand manager (1963–65), before becoming marketing manager for the Spirella Company of Great Britain. In 1968–71 he was director of the National Innovation Centre.\n\nFrom 1972 to 1979, he was Chairman of IFA Consultants Ltd, he was also chair of Selenex Ltd (1973–79), and of Courtenay Stewart International (1975–79).\n\nAfter unsuccessfully contesting Hitchin against Labour's Shirley Williams in 1970, Luce was first elected to the House of Commons as Member of Parliament (MP) for Arundel and Shoreham in a by-election in 1971. When that constituency was abolished in boundary changes for the February 1974 general election, he was returned for the new Shoreham constituency. He retired from the Commons at the 1992 general election.\n\nLuce was appointed the Parliamentary Private Secretary to the Minister of Trade and Consumer Affairs in 1972. After the Conservative Party lost the February 1974 general election, he became an Opposition whip.\n\nWhen the Conservatives returned to power at the 1979 general election, he became Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs for the Foreign and Commonwealth Office. In 1981, he was promoted to Minister of State for Foreign Affairs within the same department. In 1982, he followed his Secretary of State, Lord Carrington, in resigning over Argentina's invasion of the Falkland Islands. He returned to office in 1983, again as a Minister of State in the Foreign and Commonwealth Office. In 1985, he was moved to the Privy Council Office as Minister for the Arts and Minister for the Civil Service, which was his last ministerial office. He resigned in 1990.\n\nLuce was knighted in 1991, and was made a Privy Counsellor in 1986.\n\nLuce was Vice-Chancellor of the University of Buckingham between 1992 and 1996. In 1997, he was appointed Governor of Gibraltar, an office he held until 2000, and he was created a Life Peer, on 2 October 2000 as Baron Luce, of Adur in the County of West Sussex. In 2000 he was appointed a Knight Grand Cross of the Royal Victorian Order (GCVO) and became Lord Chamberlain in the Queen's Royal Household.\n\nLord Luce relinquished the post of Lord Chamberlain on 11 October 2006. He was succeeded by the Rt Hon. The Earl Peel. The Lord Chamberlain is the Head of the Royal Household.\n\nLord Luce was appointed a Knight Companion of the Order of the Garter (KG) on 23 April 2008. \n\nOn 26 April 2012 Lord Luce was appointed by David Cameron, the Prime Minister, as the Chair of the Crown Nominations Commission for the See of Canterbury, the commission set up to nominate the 105th Archbishop of Canterbury.\n\nLord Luce is President of the Voluntary Arts Network, and is High Steward of Westminster Abbey. He was President of the Royal Over-Seas League from 2002 until May 2020.\n\nLord Luce was appointed as the first Chancellor of the University of Gibraltar upon its foundation in 2015.\n\nLord Luce was portrayed by Jonathan Coy in the 2002 BBC production of Ian Curteis's controversial \"The Falklands Play\". He has also written 'Ringing the Changes, A Memoir' published by Michael Russell.\n\nHe is the son of Margaret (née Napier) and Sir William Luce, Governor and Commander-in-Chief of Aden, Political Resident in the Gulf and Special Representative to the Foreign Secretary (Lord Home) for Gulf Affairs. His father's older brother was Sir David Luce, First Sea Lord (1963–1966). His maternal grandfather was Trevylyan Napier, who was the Commander-in-Chief, America and West Indies Station (1919–1920). Luce has two sons, Alexander and Edward. His sister Diana is married to retired Royal Navy Captain David Hart Dyke, and his niece is comedian and actress Miranda Hart. His paternal grandfather (Rear Admiral John Luce) survived 2 key British Naval battles during WW1: the defeat at The Battle of Coronel and the victory at The Battle of the Falkland Islands.\n"}
{"id": "2291907", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291907", "title": "Cuban Link", "text": "Cuban Link\n\nFelix Delgado (born December 18, 1974), better known by his stage name Cuban Link, is a Cuban American rapper and original member of Terror Squad.\nDelgado was born in Havana, Cuba in 1974. He and his family emigrated to the United States in 1980 during the Mariel boatlift. They settled in Morrisania, The South Bronx, New York City. When Delgado was growing up, hip hop music was rising in popularity in his neighborhood. Delgado took on stage name Cuban Link and associated with fellow rappers Big Pun and Triple Seis in a group under the name Full-A-Clips.\n\nCuban Link and Big Pun both made guest performances on The Beatnuts' single \"Off the Books\" in 1997. They joined the local rap group Terror Squad, and Link performed on the track \"Tell Me What You Want\" from the group's self-titled debut album. Link previously did guest appearances on Big Pun's \"Capital Punishment\" and Fat Joe's \"Don Cartagena\". Cuban Link was signed to Atlantic and began recording his debut LP \"24K\". Big Pun died on February 7, 2000, so Cuban Link wrote \"Flowers For The Dead\" in Pun's honor. However, without Pun's mediation, contract disputes between Fat Joe and Cuban Link and leaks prevented the release of \"24K\".\n\nIn April 2001, during an album release party for Angie Martinez at Jimmy's Bronx Cafe, Cuban Link got in an altercation and had his face slashed when he was trying to break up a fight between Fat Joe and rapper Sunkiss. By that time, Cuban Link left Terror Squad. He released a mixtape, \"Broken Chains\", in 2003 put together by DrenStarr & Roy P. Perez© . He joined independent label Men of Business in 2005 and released \"Chain Reaction\". It included singles \"Sugar Daddy\" (featuring Mýa) and \"Scandalous\" (featuring Don Omar) and combined some reggaeton sound as well.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2291915", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291915", "title": "Buddhism in Thailand", "text": "Buddhism in Thailand\n\nBuddhism in Thailand is largely of the Theravada school, which is followed by 95 percent of the population. Thailand has the third largest Buddhist population in the world, after China and Japan, with approximately 64 million Buddhists. Buddhism in Thailand has also become integrated with folk religion as well as Chinese religions from the large Thai Chinese population. Buddhist temples in Thailand are characterized by tall golden stupas, and the Buddhist architecture of Thailand is similar to that in other Southeast Asian countries, particularly Cambodia and Laos, with which Thailand shares cultural and historical heritage.\n\nBuddhism is believed to have come to what is now Thailand as early as 250 BCE, in the time of Indian Emperor Ashoka. Since then, Buddhism has played a significant role in Thai culture and society. Buddhism and the Thai monarchy has often been intertwined, with Thai kings historically seen as the main patrons of Buddhism in Thailand. Although politics and religion were generally separated for most of Thai history, Buddhism's connection to the Thai state would increase in the middle of the 19th century following the reforms of King Mongkut, that would lead to the development of a royally backed sect of Buddhism and increased centralization of the Thai Sangha under the state, with state control over Buddhism increasing further after the 2014 coup d'état.\n\nThai Buddhism is distinguished for its emphasis on short term ordination for every Thai man and its close interconnection with the Thai state and Thai culture. The two official branches, or Nikayas, of Thai Buddhism are the royally backed Dhammayuttika Nikaya and the larger Maha Nikaya.\n\nSome scholars believe that Buddhism must have been flowing into Thailand from India at the time of the Indian emperor Ashoka of the Maurya Empire and into the first millennium after Christ. During the 5th to 13th centuries, Southeast Asian empires were influenced directly from India and followed Mahayana Buddhism. The Chinese pilgrim Yijing noted in his travels that in these areas, all major sects of Indian Buddhism flourished. Srivijaya to the south and the Khmer Empire to the north competed for influence and their art expressed the rich Mahāyāna pantheon of bodhisattvas. From the 9th to the 13th centuries, the Mahāyāna and Hindu Khmer Empire dominated much of the Southeast Asian peninsula. Under the Khmer Empire, more than 900 temples were built in Cambodia and in neighboring Thailand.\n\nAfter the decline of Buddhism in India, missions of Sinhalese monks gradually converted the Mon people and the Pyu city-states from Ari Buddhism to Theravāda and over the next two centuries also brought Theravāda Buddhism to the Bamar people, Thailand, Laos and Cambodia, where it supplanted previous forms of Buddhism. Theravada Buddhism was made the state religion only with the establishment of the Sukhothai Kingdom in the 13th century.\n\nThe details of the history of Buddhism in Thailand from the 13th to the 19th century are obscure, in part because few historical records or religious texts survived the Burmese destruction of Ayutthaya, the capital city of the kingdom, in 1767. Ayutthaya was the center of Thai Tantric Theravada, which included the Yogāvacara tradition, and has survived in only a few temples as well as possibly the contemporary Dhammakaya tradition. The Tantric Buddhist Yogāvacara tradition was a mainstream Buddhist tradition in Cambodia, Laos and Thailand well into the modern era. An inscription from northern Thailand with tantric elements has been dated to the Sukhothai Kingdom of the 16th century. Kate Crosby notes that this attestation makes the tantric tradition earlier than \"any other living meditation tradition in the contemporary Theravada world,\" predating the popular \"New Burmese Satipatthana Method\", better known as Vipassana meditation.\n\nThe anthropologist-historian S. J. Tambiah, however, has suggested a general pattern for that era, at least with respect to the relations between Buddhism and the sangha on the one hand and the king on the other hand. In Thailand, as in other Theravada Buddhist kingdoms, the king was in principle thought of as patron and protector of the religion (sasana) and the sangha, while sasana and the sangha were considered in turn the treasures of the polity and the signs of its legitimacy. Religion and polity, however, remained separate domains, and in ordinary times the organizational links between the sangha and the king were not close.\n\nAmong the chief characteristics of Thai kingdoms and principalities in the centuries before 1800 were the tendency to expand and contract, problems of succession, and the changing scope of the king's authority. In effect, some Thai kings had greater power over larger territories, others less, and almost invariably a king who sought successfully to expand his power also exercised greater control over the sangha. That control was coupled with greater support and patronage of the ecclesiastical hierarchy. When a king was weak, however, protection and supervision of the sangha also weakened, and the sangha declined. This fluctuating pattern appears to have continued until the emergence of the Chakri Dynasty in the last quarter of the 18th century.\n\nBy the 19th century, and especially with the coming to power in 1851 of King Mongkut, who had been a monk himself for twenty-seven years, the sangha, like the kingdom, became steadily more centralized and hierarchical in nature and its links to the state more institutionalized. As a monk, Mongkut was a distinguished scholar of Pali Buddhist scripture. Moreover, at that time the immigration of numbers of monks from Burma was introducing the more rigorous discipline characteristic of the Mon sangha. Influenced by the Mon and guided by his own understanding of the Tipitaka, Mongkut began a reform movement that later became the basis for the Dhammayuttika order of monks. Under the reform, all practices having no authority other than custom were to be abandoned, canonical regulations were to be followed not mechanically but in spirit, and acts intended to improve an individual's standing on the road to nirvana but having no social value were rejected. This more rigorous discipline was adopted in its entirety by only a small minority of monasteries and monks. The Mahanikaya order, perhaps somewhat influenced by Mongkut's reforms but with a less exacting discipline than the Dhammayuttika order, comprised about 95 percent of all monks in 1970 and probably about the same percentage in the late 1980s. In any case, Mongkut was in a position to regularize and tighten the relations between monarchy and sangha at a time when the monarchy was expanding its control over the country in general and developing the kind of bureaucracy necessary to such control. The administrative and sangha reforms that Mongkut started were continued by his successor. In 1902 King Chulalongkorn (Rama V, 1868–1910) made the new sangha hierarchy formal and permanent through the Sangha Law of 1902, which remained the foundation of sangha administration in modern Thailand. While Buddhism in Thailand remained under state centralization in the modern era, Buddhism experienced periods of tight state control and periods of liberalization depending on the government at the time.\n\nApproximately 94 percent of Thailand's population is Buddhist (five percent Muslim). Thailand had 39,883 \"wats\" (temples). Three hundred-ten are royal wats, the remainder are private (public). There were 298,580 Buddhist monks, 264,442 of the Maha Nikaya order and 34,138 of the Dhammayuttika Nikaya order. There were 59,587 Buddhist novice monks.\n\nThree major forces have influenced the development of Buddhism in Thailand. The most visible influence is that of the Theravada school of Buddhism, imported from Sri Lanka. While there are significant local and regional variations, the Theravada school provides most of the major themes of Thai Buddhism. By tradition, Pāli is the language of religion in Thailand. Scriptures are recorded in Pāli, using either the modern Thai script or the older Khom and Tham scripts. Pāli is also used in religious liturgy, despite the fact that most Thais understand very little of this ancient language. The Pāli Tipiṭaka is the primary religious text of Thailand, though many local texts have been composed in order to summarise the vast number of teachings found in the Tipiṭaka. The monastic code (Pātimokkha) followed by Thai monks is taken from the Pāli Theravada Canon.\n\nThe second major influence on Thai Buddhism is Hindu beliefs received from Cambodia, particularly during the Sukhothai Kingdom. Hinduism played a strong role in the early Thai institution of kingship, just as it did in Cambodia, and exerted influence in the creation of laws and order for Thai society as well as Thai religion. Certain rituals practiced in modern Thailand, either by monks or by Hindu ritual specialists, are either explicitly identified as Hindu in origin, or are easily seen to be derived from Hindu practices. While the visibility of Hinduism in Thai society has been diminished substantially during the Chakri Dynasty, Hindu influences, particularly shrines to the god Brahma, continue to be seen in and around Buddhist institutions and ceremonies.\n\nFolk religion—attempts to propitiate and attract the favor of local spirits known as \"phi\"—forms the third major influence on Thai Buddhism. While Western observers (as well as Western-educated Thais) have often drawn a clear line between Thai Buddhism and folk religious practices, this distinction is rarely observed in more rural locales. Spiritual power derived from the observance of Buddhist precepts and rituals is employed in attempting to appease local nature spirits. Many restrictions observed by rural Buddhist monks are derived not from the orthodox Vinaya, but from taboos derived from the practice of folk magic. Astrology, numerology, and the creation of talismans and charms also play a prominent role in Buddhism as practiced by the average Thai—practices that are censured by the Buddha in Buddhist texts (see Digha Nikaya 2, ff).\n\nAdditionally, more minor influences can be observed stemming from contact with Mahayana Buddhism. Early Buddhism in Thailand is thought to have been derived from an unknown Mahayana tradition. While Mahayana Buddhism was gradually eclipsed in Thailand, certain features of Thai Buddhism—such as the appearance of the bodhisattva Lokeśvara in some Thai religious architecture, and the belief that the king of Thailand is a bodhisattva himself—reveal the influence of Mahayana concepts.\n\nIn modern times, additional Mahayana influence has stemmed from the presence of Overseas Chinese in Thai society. While some Chinese have \"converted\" to Thai-style Theravada Buddhism, many others maintain their own separate temples in the East Asian Mahayana tradition. The growing popularity of Guanyin, a form of Avalokiteśvara, may be attributed to the Chinese presence in Thailand.\n\nWhile Thailand is a constitutional monarchy, it inherited a strong Southeast Asian tradition of Buddhist kingship that tied the legitimacy of the state to its protection and support for Buddhist institutions. This connection has been maintained into the modern era, with Buddhist institutions and clergy being granted special benefits by the government, as well as being subjected to a certain amount of governmental oversight. Part of the coronation of the Thai monarch includes the king proceeding to the chapel royal (the Wat Phra Kaew) to vow to be a \"defender of the faith\" in front of a chapter of monks including the Supreme Patriarch of Thailand.\n\nIn addition to the ecclesiastical leadership of the \"sangha\", a secular government ministry supervises Buddhist temples and monks. The legal status of Buddhist sects and reform movements has been an issue of contention in some cases, particularly in the case of Santi Asoke, which was legally forbidden from calling itself a Buddhist denomination, and in the case of the ordination of women attempting to revive the Theravada bhikkhuni lineage have been prosecuted for attempting to impersonate members of the clergy.\n\nTo obtain a passport for travel abroad, a monk must have an official letter from Sangha Supreme Council granting the applicant permission to travel abroad; Buddhist monk identification card; a copy of house or temple registration; and submit any previous Thai passport or a certified copy.\n\nIn addition to state support and recognition—in the form of formal gifts to monasteries made by government officials and the royal family (for example, Kathin)—-a number of special rights are conferred upon Buddhist monks. They are granted free passage on public transportation, and most train stations and airports have special seating sections reserved for members of the clergy. Conversely, ordained monastics are forbidden from standing for office or voting in elections.\n\nIn 2007, calls were made by some Buddhist groups for Buddhism to be recognized in the new national constitution as the state religion. This suggestion was initially rejected by the committee charged with drafting the new constitution. This move prompted protests from supporters of the initiative, including a number of marches on the capital and a hunger strike by twelve Buddhist monks. Some critics of the plan, including scholar and social critic Sulak Sivaraksa, claimed that the movement to declare Buddhism the national religion is motivated by political gain, manipulated by supporters of ousted Prime Minister Thaksin Shinawatra.\nThe Constitution Drafting Committee later voted against the special status of Buddhism, provoking religious groups. They condemned the committee and the draft constitution. On 11 August 2007, Sirikit, the Queen of Thailand, expressed her concern over the issue. She said, in her birthday speech, that Buddhism is beyond politics. Some Buddhist organizations halted their campaigns the next day.\n\nNo law directly prohibits a member of the Buddhist institutions, such as a monk, a novice and a nun, from being a candidate in an examination for recruitment of government officers. Though both the Council of Ministers and the Sangha Supreme Council, the supervising body of the Thai Buddhist communities, have ordered such prohibition on grounds of appropriateness, according to the Memorandum of the Cabinet's Administrative Department No. NW98/2501 dated 27 June 1958 and the Order of the Sangha Supreme Council dated 17 March 1995.\n\nThe members of the Buddhist community and the communities of other religions are not entitled to elect or be elected as a holder of any government post. For instance, the 2007 constitution of Thailand disfranchises \"a Buddhist monk, a Buddhist novice, a priest or a clergy member\" ().\n\nThe Sangha Supreme Council also declared the same prohibition, pursuant to its Order dated 17 March 1995. At the end of the Order was a statement of grounds given by Nyanasamvara, the Supreme Patriarch. The statement said:\n\nBuddhism in Thailand came under greater state control following the 2014 coup d'état. After seizing power the military junta, the National Council for Peace and Order (NCPO), set up a National Reform Council with a religious committee led by former Thai senator Paiboon Nititawan and former monk Mano Laohavanich. Calls for reform were spearheaded by right-wing activist monk Phra Buddha Issara, who had close ties with junta leader Prayut Chan-o-cha, and was known for leading the protests in Bangkok that led to the coup.\n\nState influence over several aspects of Thai Buddhism increased under the NCPO, with the junta's new constitution stating that the Thai government is to directly support Theravada Buddhism specifically. In 2015, the junta's National Reform Council made several proposals to give the state greater control of Buddhism, including requiring temples to open their finances to the public, ending short-term ordinations, requiring monks to carry smart cards to identify their legal and religious backgrounds, increased control of the bank accounts of temples, increased control of monastic disciplinarians, changing the abbots of all temples every five years, putting the Ministry of Culture in charge of controlling all temple assets, controlling monastic education, and taxing monks.\n\nIn 2016, Phra Buddha Issara requested that the Department of Special Investigation (DSI) investigate the assets of Thailand's leading monks, the Sangha Supreme Council. This resulted in an alleged tax evasion scandal against Somdet Chuang, the most senior member of the council who was next in line to become supreme patriarch. Although prosecutors did not charge Somdet, the incident postponed his appointment and led to a change in the law that allowed the Thai government to bypass the Sangha Supreme Council and appoint the supreme patriarch directly. This allowed the ruling junta to effectively handpick Thailand's supreme patriarch. In 2017, Somdet Chuang's appointment was withdrawn, with a monk from the Dhammayuttika Nikaya appointed instead. The appointment was made by King Rama X, who chose the name from five given to him by NCPO leader Prayut Chan-o-cha.\n\nIn February 2017, the junta used Article 44, a controversial section in the interim constitution, to replace the head of the National Office of Buddhism with a DSI official. The DSI official was removed from office a few months later after religious groups called on the government to fire him because of his reform plans, but was reinstated after a few months.\n\nIn May 2018, the NCPO launched simultaneous raids of four different temples to arrest several monks shortly after a crackdown on protesters on the anniversary of the coup. To the surprise of many officials, one of the monks arrested was Phra Buddha Issara. The right-wing monk was arrested for charges brought against him in 2014, including alleged robbery and detaining officials, however, his most serious charge was a charge of unauthorized use of the royal seal filed in 2017. Police did not state why he was then being arrested for charges filed as far back as four years. One observer described the arrest of Buddha Issara as trying to cover up the true motives or because Buddha Issara knew too much about the rulers and was seen as a threat. Another said that the junta may regard him as a loose canon politically and that the junta is virtue signaling—deserving continued political power—to the new Thai monarch, King Maha Vajiralongkorn. All the monks arrested in the May raids were defrocked shortly after being taken into custody, and detained before trial.\n\nAnthropologist Jim Taylor argues that the arrests were the \"ruling palace regime\" trying to consolidate royalist power by eliminating non-royalist high-ranking monks. Taylor pointed out that the suspects of the investigations were innocent until proven guilty, yet were all defrocked before trial and stripped of decades of monastic seniority only for being accused of the crimes. The only royalist monk arrested was Buddha Issara. In July 2018, the junta passed a law giving the Thai king the ability to select members of the Sangha Supreme Council, the governing body of Thai monks, instead of the monks themselves. The alleged scandals of the 2017–18 Thai temple fraud investigations and the resulting arrests were cited as the reason for the change.\n\nAs in most other Theravada nations, Buddhism in Thailand is represented primarily by the presence of Buddhist monks, who serve as officiants on ceremonial occasions, as well as being responsible for preserving and conveying the teachings of the Buddha.\n\nDuring the latter half of the 20th century, most monks in Thailand began their careers by serving as temple boys ( \"dek wat\", \"children of the wat\"). Temple boys are traditionally no younger than eight and do minor housework. The primary reason for becoming a temple boy is to gain a basic education, particularly in basic reading and writing and the memorization of the scriptures chanted on ritual occasions. Prior to the creation of state-run primary schools in Thailand, village temples served as the primary form of education for most Thai boys. Service in a temple as a temple boy was a necessary prerequisite for attaining any higher education, and was the only learning available to most Thai peasants. Since the creation of a government-run educational apparatus in Thailand, the number of children living as temple boys has declined significantly. However, many government-run schools continue to operate on the premises of the local village temple.\n\nBoys now typically ordain as a sāmaṇera or novitiate monks ( \"samanen\", often shortened to \"nen\" ). In some localities, girls may become sāmaṇerī. Novices live according to the Ten Precepts but are not required to follow the full range of monastic rules found in the Pātimokkha. There are a few other significant differences between novices and bhikkhus. Novices often are in closer contact with their families, spending more time in the homes of their parents than monks. Novices do not participate in the recitation of the monastic code (and the confessions of violations) that take place on the uposatha days. Novices technically do not eat with the monks in their temple, but this typically only amounts to a gap in seating, rather than the separation observed between monks and the laity. Novices usually ordain during a break from secular schooling, but those intending on a religious life, may receive secular schooling at the wat.\n\nYoung men typically do not live as a novice for longer than one or two years. At the age of 20, they become eligible to receive upasampada, the higher ordination that establishes them as a full bhikkhu. A novice is technically sponsored by his parents in his ordination, but in practice in rural villages the entire village participates by providing the robes, alms bowl, and other requisites that will be required by the monk in his monastic life.\n\nTemporary ordination is the norm among Thai Buddhists. Most young men traditionally ordain for the term of a single vassa or rainy season (Thai \"phansa\"). Those who remain monks beyond their first vassa typically remain monks for between one and three years, officiating at religious ceremonies in surrounding villages and possibly receiving further education in reading and writing (possibly including the Khom or Tai Tham alphabets traditionally used in recording religious texts). After this period of one to three years, most young monks return to secular life, going on to marry and start a family. Young men in Thailand who have undergone ordination are seen as being more suitable partners for marriage; unordained men are euphemistically called \"unripe\", while those who have been ordained are said to be \"ripe\". A period as a monk is a prerequisite for many positions of leadership within the village hierarchy. Most village elders or headmen were once monks, as were most traditional doctors, spirit priests, and some astrologists and fortune tellers.\n\nIn a country where most males can be ordained as monks for even short periods of time, the experience can be profitable. The Thai musician, Pisitakun Kuantalaeng, became a monk for a short period following the death of his father in order to make merit. He observed that, \"Being a monk is good money...When you go and pray you get 300 baht [about £7] even though you have no living expenses, and you can go four times a day. Too many monks in Thailand do it to get rich. If you become a monk for three months you have enough money for a scooter.\"\n\nMonks who do not return to secular life typically specialize in either scholarship or meditation. Those who specialize in scholarship typically travel to regional education centers to begin further instruction in the Pāli language and the scriptures, and may then continue on to the major monastic universities in Bangkok. The scholarship route is also followed by monks who desire to rise in the ecclesiastic hierarchy, as promotions within the government-run system are contingent on passing examinations in Pāli and Dhamma studies.\n\nThe Thai tradition supports laymen to go into a monastery, dress and act as monks, and study while there. The time line is based on threes, staying as a monk for three days, or three weeks, or three months or three years, or three weeks and three days. This retreat is expected of all Thai males, rich or poor, and often is scheduled after high school. Such retreats bring honor to the family and blessings (merit) to the young man. Thais make allowances for men who follow this practice, such as holding open a job.\n\nRising obesity among monks and concerns for their well-being has become an issue in Thailand. A study by the Health Ministry in 2017 of 200 Bangkok temples found that 60 percent of monks suffer from high cholesterol and 50 percent from high blood sugar. Public health experts attribute this to two factors. First, monks are required to accept and eat whatever is given to them on their daily alms rounds. Second, monks are not permitted to engage in cardiovascular exercise as it is undignified. Monks eat only two meals per day, breakfast and lunch. But the remainder of the day they are allowed to drink \"nam pana\", which includes the juice of fruit less than fist-sized, often high in sugar. To combat the high rate of non-communicable diseases among monks, the National Health Commission Office (NHCO) issued a pamphlet, \"National Health Charter for Monks\", designed to educate monks and laypeople alike as to healthy eating habits.\n\nThe Thai media often reports on Buddhist monks behaving in ways that are considered inappropriate. There have been reports of sexual assault, embezzlement, drug-taking, extravagant lifestyles, even murder. Thailand's 38,000 temples, populated by 300,000 monks, are easy targets for corruption, handling between US$3 to 3.6 billion yearly in donations, mostly untraceable cash. In a case that received much media attention, Luang Pu Nen Kham Chattiko was photographed in July 2013 wearing Ray-Ban sunglasses, holding a Louis Vuitton bag full of US dollars, and \"...was later found to be a trafficker of methamphetamines, an abuser of women and the lover of a pregnant fourteen-year-old.\"\n\nThere have been cases of influential monks persecuted and jailed by the Thai government, through verdicts later declared moot or controversial. A well-known case in Thailand is that of Phra Phimontham, then abbot of Wat Mahadhatu, known in Thailand for having introduced the Burmese Satipatthana meditation method to Thailand. In 1962, during the Cold War, he was accused of collaboration with communist rebels and being a threat to national security, and was fully defrocked and jailed. In fact, the government persecuted him because of his political views and promotion of changes in the Sangha. Phra Phimontham had strong pro-democratic leanings, which did not comport well with the regime of the day nor the palace. Furthermore, Phra Phimontham was part of the Maha Nikaya fraternity, rather than the Dhammayuttika fraternity, which the government and monarchy historically have preferred. Phra Phimontham was likely to become the next supreme patriarch. For this reason, his treatment has been described by Thai scholars as a \"struggle between patriarchs\" (), referring to the political objective of disabling him as a candidate. After four years, when the country changed its government, Phra Phimontham was released from prison when a military court decided he had not collaborated with communists after all. Afterwards, he ordained again and eventually regained his former status, though he continued to be discredited.\n\nBuddhadasa Bhikkhu was subject to similar allegations from the Thai government, and so was Luang Por Phothirak, the founder of Santi Asoke. Luang Por Pothirak was eventually charged of altering the Vinaya and defrocked. A recent example is Phra Prajak Kuttajitto, an environmentalist monk critical of government policies, who was arrested and defrocked.\n\nIn 1999 and again in 2002, Luang Por Dhammajayo, the then abbot of Wat Phra Dhammakaya, was accused of charges of fraud and embezzlement by the Thai media and later some government agencies when donations of land were found in his name. Wat Phra Dhammakaya denied this, stating that it was the intention of the donors to give the land to the abbot and not the temple, and that owning personal property is common and legal in the Thai Sangha. Widespread negative media coverage at this time was symptomatic of the temple being made the scapegoat for commercial malpractice in the Thai Buddhist temple community in the wake of the 1997 Asian financial crisis. The Sangha Supreme Council declared that Luang Por Dhammajayo had not broken any serious offenses against monastic discipline (Vinaya). In 2006, the Thai National Office for Buddhism cleared the Dhammakaya Foundation and Luang Por Dhammajayo of all accusations when Luang Por Dhammajayo agreed offer all of the disputed land to the name of his temple.\n\nIn March 2016, Thai police formally summoned then Acting Supreme Patriarch Somdet Chuang Varapunno, after he refused to answer direct questions about his vintage car, one of only 65 made. The car was part of a museum kept at Wat Paknam Bhasicharoen in Bangkok, but has now been seized by police investigating possible tax evasion. Somdet reportedly transferred ownership of the vehicle to another monk after the scandal broke. He refused to answer police questions directly, insisting that written questions be sent to his lawyer. He did say that the car was a gift from a follower.\n\nAnalysts from different news outlets have pointed out that the actions of the Thai government towards Wat Paknam Bhasicharoen may have reflected a political need to control who should be selected as the next Supreme Patriarch, since Somdet had already been proposed as a candidate by the Sangha Supreme Council. Selecting him would mean a Supreme Patriarch from the Maha Nikaya fraternity, rather than the Dhammayuttika fraternity, which historically has always been the preferred choice of the Thai government and the monarchy. In fact, Somdet Chuang's nomination was postponed and eventually withdrawn after the Thai government changed the law in December 2016 to allow King Vajiralongkorn to appoint the Supreme Patriarch directly, with Prime Minister Prayut Chan-o-cha countersigning, leading to the appointment of a monk from the Dhammayuttika fraternity instead. The Thai government cited several reasons for this, including the car. At the end of the same year, however, prosecutors decided not to charge Somdet Chuang, but to charge his assistant abbot instead, and another six people who had part in importing the vintage car. In February 2016, in a protest organized by the National Centre for the Protection of Thai Buddhism, a Red Shirt-oriented network, the example of Phra Phimontham was also cited as demands were made for the Thai government to no longer involve itself with the selection of the next leader of the Sangha.\n\n\nUnlike in Burma and Sri Lanka, the bhikkhuni lineage of women monastics was never established in Thailand. Women primarily participate in religious life either as lay participants in collective merit-making rituals or by doing domestic work around temples. A small number of women choose to become maechi, non-ordained religious specialists who permanently observe either the Eight or Ten Precepts. Maechi do not receive the level of support given to bhikkhu and their position in Thai society is the subject of some discussion.\n\nThere have been efforts to attempt to introduce a bhikkhuni lineage in Thailand as a step towards improving the position of women in Thai Buddhism. The main proponent of this movement has been Dhammananda Bhikkhuni. Unlike similar efforts in Sri Lanka, these efforts have been extremely controversial in Thailand. Women attempting to ordain have been accused of attempting to impersonate monks (a civil offense in Thailand), and their actions have been denounced by many members of the ecclesiastic hierarchy.\n\nIn 1928 a secular law was passed in Thailand banning women's full ordination in Buddhism. Varanggana Vanavichayen became the first female monk to be ordained in Thailand in 2002. Some time after this, the secular law was revoked. On , Dhammananda Bhikkhuni received full monastic ordination as a bhikkhuni of the Theravada tradition in Sri Lanka, making her the first modern Thai woman to receive full ordination as a Theravada bhikkhuni. She is Abbess of Songdhammakalyani Monastery, the only temple in Thailand where there are bhikkhunis. It was founded by her mother, Voramai, a Mahayana bhikkhuni, in the 1960s.\n\nNo one denies that men and women have an equal chance to attain enlightenment. In Mahayana Buddhism, practised in Taiwan, mainland China, Hong Kong, and Tibet, female ordinations are common, but in countries that adhere to the Theravada branch of the religion, such as Sri Lanka, Thailand, and Myanmar, women were banned from becoming ordained about eight centuries ago, \"for fear that women entering monastic life instead of bearing children would be a disruption of social order\", according to Kittipong Narit, a Buddhist scholar at Bangkok's Thammasat University. Critics charge that the ban on female ordination is about patriarchy and power. The status quo benefits those in power and they refuse to share the perks with outsiders.\n\nMost objections to the reintroduction of a female monastic role hinge on the fact that the monastic rules require that both five ordained monks and five ordained bhikkhunis be present for any new bhikkhuni ordination. Without such a quorum, critics say that it is not possible to ordain any new Theravada bhikkhuni. The Thai hierarchy refuses to recognize ordinations in the Dharmaguptaka tradition (the only currently existing bhikkhuni ordination lineage) as valid Theravada ordinations, citing differences in philosophical teachings and, more critically, monastic discipline.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2291916", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291916", "title": "Martin Fackler", "text": "Martin Fackler\n\nMartin L. Fackler (1933–2015) was an American military officer, surgeon and wound ballistics expert. He served in the U.S Navy from 1960 to 1975 and in the U.S. Army from 1975 to 1991. He was a field surgeon at the Naval Support Hospitals at Da Nang, Vietnam and at Yokosuka, Japan, and later a colonel in the US Army's Medical Corps. He was the founder and head of the Wound Ballistics Laboratory for the Letterman Army Institute of Research from 1981 to 1991. He was a member and leader of numerous distinguished organizations, among them the International Wound Ballistics Association, the French Wound Ballistics Society and the American Academy of Forensic Sciences. Dr. Fackler had numerous teaching appointments and was the author of over 300 publications in regards to wound ballistics, body armor, and treatment of injuries for both the military and civilian populations. He is credited with a number of contributions to the field of terminal ballistics, including:\n\n\nExamples of Fackler's work on behalf of the U.S. military:\n\nNATO Handbook Emergency War Surgery Chapter entitled Missile Caused Wounds was authored by Fackler.\n\n"}
{"id": "2291927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291927", "title": "The Tyra Banks Show", "text": "The Tyra Banks Show\n\nThe Tyra Banks Show, also known as and shortened to Tyra or The Tyra Show, is an American talk show hosted by Tyra Banks that aired from 2005 to 2010.\n\nWhile Banks's show covered a variety of topics, there was a sensationalized focus on current issues facing women, with often special episodes on \"America's Next Top Model\", which Banks herself had also created and which she still hosts. In its later seasons, it took on a tabloid format similar to shows such as \"Maury\" and \"The Montel Williams Show\", covering topics such as people with odd psychological problems, among other subjects.\n\nThe show was aired in many countries, and also remained available on XM Satellite Radio's Take Five channel in both the United States and Canada.\n\n\"The Tyra Banks Show\" premiered on September 12, 2005 in front of a live-to-tape audience at CBS Television City in Los Angeles, California\n\nIn Summer 2007, the show moved to New York City, where it was taped in the Chelsea Studios formerly occupied by Ricki Lake's program, being recorded in front of a live-to-tape audience at Chelsea Studios and Bankable Productions in New York City. The final five all-new episodes from Los Angeles were aired the week of September 3, 2007 and followed by the 3rd-season premiere on following week, September 10, 2007 in New York City.\n\nOn December 19, 2007, the show was renewed an additional two seasons in syndication, 2008–2009 and 2009–2010. The fourth season began on September 8, 2008. However, in November 2008, Warner Bros. announced the program would move to The CW network's daytime block in September 2009, with both an archive episode and a first-run episode airing daily. As The CW was already airing \"ANTM\", network officials saw the move as a \"strategic alignment of interests for The CW's stations\", as both shows thus aired on the same channel nationwide.\n\nOn September 7, 2009, \"Tyra\" made its debut on The CW, with a new logo and new music, a remixed version of \"I'm Coming Out\" by Diana Ross.\n\nOn December 28, 2009, it was announced that Season 5 would be the show's final season. The last episode aired on Friday, May 28, 2010. The finale featured many special guest stars which included Mike Epps, Cheryl Tiegs, Miley Cyrus, LL Cool J, Rihanna, Michael Rapaport, and Robbi Morgan.\n\nDuring the 2010–2011 television season, repeats aired on weekdays at 3:00–4:00pm on The CW affiliates until September 16, 2011.\n\nOn June 20, 2008, \"The Tyra Banks Show\" won a Daytime Emmy Award for Outstanding Talk Show Informative.\n\nOn August 30, 2009, \"The Tyra Banks Show\" won another Daytime Emmy Award for Outstanding Talk Show Informative, beating out \"Dr. Phil\" and \"The Doctors.\"\n\nIn 2010, \"The Tyra Banks Show\" was nominated for a GLAAD Media Award for \"Outstanding Talk Show Episode\" for the episode \"Hell to Pay – Gay Teen Exorcism\" during the 21st GLAAD Media Awards.\n\n"}
{"id": "2291934", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291934", "title": "The Diag", "text": "The Diag\n\nAt the University of Michigan in Ann Arbor, the Diag ( ) is a large open space in the middle of the university's Central Campus. Originally known as the Diagonal Green, the Diag derives its name from the many sidewalks running near or through it in diagonal directions. It is one of the busiest sites on the university campus, hosting a variety of events including outdoor concerts, fundraisers, demonstrations, and sun bathing.\n\nMany of the University's most frequented buildings are situated around the Diag, including West Hall, Randall Lab, the Shapiro Undergraduate Library, the Hatcher Graduate Library, and Angell, Mason, Haven, and Tisch Halls, among others.\n\nA brass block \"M\", a symbol of the university, is embedded at the center of the Diag. Local legend has it that if a UM student steps on the M before taking his or her first blue book exam at the university, the student will go on to fail that exam. The only way to reverse this \"curse\" was to run naked from the campus belltower during the strokes of midnight to two statues of pumas at the Natural Science Museum, then back to the tower before it stopped ringing. This has been made considerably more difficult in recent years as the belltower no longer rings at midnight.\n\nDuring the week before the annual football game against Michigan State University, members of the Theta Xi fraternity take turns guarding the inlaid \"M\" against vandalism by rival fans. A similar vigil takes place at Michigan State University known as \"Sparty Watch\" or \"Sparty Guard\" where members of the Spartan Marching Band guard the Sparty statue against vandalism.\n\nIn April 2008, spring commencement ceremonies were held at the Diag for the first time in the university's 191-year history, as the traditional commencement ceremony location, Michigan Stadium, was undergoing construction. Rynearson Stadium, located at nearby Eastern Michigan University, was initially chosen by UM administration as the alternate commencement site, but a large volume of complaints led an alternate commencement site to be chosen, finally settling on the Diag.\n\n"}
{"id": "2291952", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291952", "title": "Jedi (game engine)", "text": "Jedi (game engine)\n\nJedi is a game engine developed primarily by Ray Gresko for LucasArts. It is very similar to the Build engine used in \"Duke Nukem 3D\". While not a true 3D engine, it supported a three-dimensional environment with no limitations in the 3rd dimension (Z). In \"Doom\", environments or levels were limited to existing in the X-Y plane only – levels were laid out two-dimensionally: while floor and ceiling heights could differ, areas could not overlap vertically. The Jedi Engine had support for areas or rooms (called \"sectors\") on top of one another, a trait that it shared with the Build engine. In the \"\" revision of the engine, the renderer could not display two rooms situated on top of each other at the same time. This capability was added for \"Outlaws\".\n\nThe Jedi Engine also included the ability to jump and crouch, the ability to look up and down, and atmospheric effects (achieved by careful manipulation of 256-color palette files). The engine is limited in its rendering capabilities, however, and used two-dimensional sprites (pre-rendered in different angles) for most of its object graphics.\n\nIts lifetime was short lived, being used in two titles, \"\" and \"Outlaws\". The sequel to \"Dark Forces\", \"\", used the Sith engine.\n\n"}
{"id": "2291954", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291954", "title": "Jaideep Saikia", "text": "Jaideep Saikia\n\nJaideep Saikia is a South Asian security and terrorism expert. He is also the author of the book \"Terror Sans Frontiers: Islamist Militancy in North East India\", which in the words of South Asia observer, Stephen Philip Cohen, is \"One of the most important books on the question of insurgency yet to appear...\" Jaideep Saikia also is a regular commentator on the ULFA, Bangladesh and Islamist extremism in South Asia, with numerous papers and books on the subject, which he has either edited or written. His most recent edited anthology, \"Frontier in Flames: North East India in Turmoil\" is a collection of essays by experts on the region. The anthology was released in New Delhi by the celebrated columnist B G Verghese in February 2008. He also lectures on the subject of his expertise in various forums, and is consulted by various government agencies, NGOs and Think Tanks.\n\nJaideep Saikia is also a top theorist and expert on Islamic State, al-Qaeda and Islamist terror groups of all hues and denominations. He is an authority on Islamist related violence in Bangladesh and the Indian sub-continent and has written authoritative papers on the subject - especially after his tour of Bangladesh in March 2016. His latest works include the \"Terrorism: Patterns of Internationalization\", \"Circle of Treason: Bangladesh Beyond the Threat of Illegal Migration, \"Shadow of Daesh\" and \"Mind Over Matter\". In his seminal and best-selling book \"Terror Sans Frontier: Islamist Militancy in North East India\", Saikia had not only documented all the Islamist terror organisations that are operating in the region, but was the first to predict the entry of al-Qaeda into the Indian sub-continent.\n\nHe has been member of different Indian delegations for \"Track II Dialogue\" with Bangladesh, China, Myanmar and Japan. Jaideep Saikia is also the first person to have translated the Assamese National Song, O Mur Aapunar Des into English.\n"}
{"id": "2291960", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291960", "title": "Count Five", "text": "Count Five\n\nCount Five was an American garage rock band, formed in San Jose, California in 1964, best known for their hit single \"Psychotic Reaction\".\n\nThe band was founded in 1964 by John \"Mouse\" Michalski (born 1948, Cleveland, Ohio) playing lead guitar and Roy Chaney (born 1948, Indianapolis, Indiana) playing bass guitar. The two were high school friends who had previously played in several short-lived bands, most notably a surf rock group named The Citations. As the British Invasion's influence took effect, the band changed in musical direction. After going by the name The Squires for a short time, along with several line-up changes, the Count Five was born. John \"Sean\" Byrne (1947–2008, born Dublin, Ireland) played rhythm guitar and performed lead vocals, Kenn Ellner played tambourine and harmonica, while sharing lead vocals, and Craig \"Butch\" Atkinson (1947–1998, born San Jose, California) played drums. The Count Five were recognizable for their habit of wearing Count Dracula-style capes when playing live.\n\n\"Psychotic Reaction\", an acknowledged cornerstone of garage rock, was initially devised by Byrne, with the group refining it and turning it into the highlight of their live sets. The song was influenced by the style of contemporary musicians such as The Standells and The Yardbirds. The band was rejected by several record labels before they got signed to the Los Angeles-based Double Shot Records. \"Psychotic Reaction\" was released as a single, peaking at number five in the U.S. charts in late 1966. The band enjoyed limited success for a short time, dropping out of view altogether when their only hit had fallen from public memory. Another setback to a potential career in the music business was the decision of the five members (who were between the ages of 17 and 19) to pursue college degrees.\n\nBy 1969, the Count Five had broken up, but their memory was immortalized in a 1971 essay by rock journalist Lester Bangs, entitled \"Psychotic Reactions and Carburetor Dung.\" In the essay, Bangs credited the band for having released several later albums (after \"Psychotic Reaction\"): \"Carburetor Dung\", \"Cartesian Jetstream\", \"Ancient Lace and Wrought-Iron Railings\", and \"Snowflakes Falling On the International Dateline\" — each displaying an increasing sense of artistry and refinement. However, none of these subsequent albums actually existed except in Bangs' own imagination.\n\nThe Count Five reunited only once, when they performed a concert on April 11, 1987 at a club in Santa Clara, California called \"One Step Beyond\". This performance has been released as \"Psychotic Reunion LIVE!\".\n\nThe song \"Psychotic Reaction\" can be heard playing on the jukebox in an early scene in Wim Wenders' film \"Alice in the Cities\" (1974) and in the party scene in \"The Sense of an Ending\" (2017). It can also be heard on the season one finale of the HBO drama series \"Vinyl\".\n\nCraig Atkinson died on October 13, 1998. John \"Sean\" Byrne died on December 15, 2008 at 61 from cirrhosis of the liver.\n\nRoy Chaney formed a new band in the 1990s called The Count (with Byrne and drummer Rocco Astrella (born Mar 20, 1951 – died Mar 1, 2014, who played in the last version of the original group). The Count released their debut CD, \"Can't Sleep\", in 2002. In 2006, Count Five was among the first bands inaugurated into the San Jose Rock Hall of Fame.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2291961", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291961", "title": "CBE-FM", "text": "CBE-FM\n\nCBE-FM is the call sign of the CBC Music station in Windsor, Ontario, Canada. The station broadcasts at 89.9 FM, and was launched on October 15, 1978.\n\n"}
{"id": "2291963", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291963", "title": "Gamal Abdel-Rahim", "text": "Gamal Abdel-Rahim\n\nGamal Abdel-Rahim ( ) (b. Cairo, Egypt May 1, 1924; d. Königstein, Germany, November 23, 1988) was an Egyptian classical music composer, educator, and pianist. His best-known work is the symphony \"Osiris\".\n\nAbdel-Rahim was born in Cairo to a musical father, and began playing the piano at an early age. His early musical studies were supported by the Music Society of the Faculty of Arts of Cairo University (then called Fuad I University), graduating with a degree in history. In 1950 he began university studies in musicology at the Musikhochschule of Heidelberg in West Germany, deciding on a career as a composer. From 1952 to 1957 he studied composition with Harald Genzmer (a pupil of Paul Hindemith) at the Hochschule für Musik Freiburg.\n\nIn 1959, Abdel-Rahim was appointed to teach theory and harmony at the newly opened Cairo Conservatory of Music. He was later appointed head of the composition department there (the first of its kind in the Arab world), which he founded in 1971. Abdel-Rahim was quite influential among Egyptian composers of the next generation, as the majority of them studied with him during his time at the Cairo Conservatory.\n\nAbdel-Rahim's style fuses traditional Egyptian musical elements with contemporary European elements, focusing on Egyptian materials in his later works more than in his earlier works. He composed many works for orchestra, chorus, and chamber ensembles, as well as songs and music for film, theater, and ballet. He was awarded the State Prize for Composition, as well as the Order of Arts, from the Egyptian government.\n\nAbdel-Rahim was married to Samha El-Kholy (1925-2006), a noted Egyptian musicologist and former president of the Academy of Arts in Cairo. Abdel-Rahim died in Frankfurt, Germany.\n\nHis notable students include Ahmed El-Saedi, Rageh Daoud, Mona Ghoneim, Khaled Shokry, Sherif Mohie El Din, Nader Abbasy, Ali Osman, and Mohamed Abdelwahab Abdelfattah.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2291971", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291971", "title": "Corella", "text": "Corella\n\nCorella may refer to:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2291972", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291972", "title": "CFPL", "text": "CFPL\n\nCFPL may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2291975", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291975", "title": "CKNX", "text": "CKNX\n\nCKNX may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2291976", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291976", "title": "Ramblin' Wreck from Georgia Tech", "text": "Ramblin' Wreck from Georgia Tech\n\n\"(I'm a) Ramblin' Wreck from Georgia Tech\" is the fight song of the Georgia Institute of Technology, better known as Georgia Tech. The composition is based on \"Son of a Gambolier\", composed by Charles Ives in 1895, the lyrics of which are based on an old English and Scottish drinking song of the same name. It first appeared in print in the 1908 Blueprint, Georgia Tech's yearbook. The song was later sung by the Georgia Tech Glee Club on \"The Ed Sullivan Show\" in 1953, and by Richard Nixon and Nikita Khrushchev during the 1959 Kitchen Debate.\n\n\"Ramblin' Wreck\" is played after every Georgia Tech score in a football game, directly after a field goal or safety, and preceded by \"Up With the White and Gold\" after a touchdown. It is also frequently played during timeouts at the team's basketball games.\n\nThe term \"Ramblin' Wreck\" has been used to refer to students and alumni of Georgia Tech much longer than the Model A now known as the Ramblin' Wreck has been in existence. The expression has its origins in the late 19th century and was used originally to refer to the makeshift motorized vehicles constructed by Georgia Tech engineers employed in projects in the jungles of South America. Other workers in the area began to refer to these vehicles and the men who drove them as \"Rambling Wrecks from Georgia Tech.\"\n\n<poem>\nI'm a Ramblin' Wreck from Georgia Tech, and a hell of an engineer—\nA helluva, helluva, helluva, helluva, hell of an engineer.\nLike all the jolly good fellows, I drink my whiskey clear.\nI'm a Ramblin' Wreck from Georgia Tech and a hell of an engineer.\n\nOh! If I had a daughter, sir, I'd dress her in White and Gold,\nAnd put her on the campus to cheer the brave and bold.\nBut if I had a son, sir, I'll tell you what he'd do—\nHe would yell, 'To hell with Georgia!' like his daddy used to do.\n\nOh, I wish I had a barrel of rum and sugar three thousand pounds,\nA college bell to put it in and a clapper to stir it round.\nI'd drink to all the good fellows who come from far and near.\nI'm a ramblin', gamblin', hell of an engineer!\n</poem>\n\nThe earliest rendition of the song is \"Son of a Gambolier\" (also known as \"A Son of a Gambolier\" and \"The Son of a Gambolier\"), which is a lament to one's own poverty; a gambolier is \"a worthless individual given to carousing, gambling, and general moral depravity.\" The chorus goes:\n<poem>Like every jolly fellow\nI takes my whiskey clear,\nFor I'm a rambling rake of poverty\nAnd the son of a gambolier.</poem>\n\nThe tune was first adapted as a school song by Dickinson College in southern Pennsylvania in the 1850s. Students at the college modified it to include a reference to their college bell by adding the following lyrics:\n<poem>I wish I had a barrel of rum,\nAnd sugar three hundred pounds,\nThe college bell to mix it in,\nThe clapper to stir it round</poem>\n\nIn 1857, the Delta Kappa Epsilon fraternity published a songbook that contained a heavily modified version of the song. The adapted chorus used the following lyrics:\n\n<poem>I'm a son of a, son of a, son of a, son of a, son of a DKE!\nI'm a son of a, son of a, son of a, son of a, son of a DKE!\nLike every college fellow, I like my whiskey free,\nFor I'm a rambling rake of a college man,\nAnd the son of a DKE!</poem>\n\nThe song was subsequently adapted by the Colorado School of Mines in the late 1870s and entitled \"The Mining Engineer.\" This version is the closest adaptation to \"Ramblin' Wreck from Georgia Tech.\"\n<poem>Like every honest fellow,\nI take my whisky clear,\nI'm a rambling wreck from Golden Tech,\na helluva engineer.</poem>\n\nThe Mines version also includes:\n<poem>Oh, if I had a daughter\nI'd dress her up in green,\nAnd send her up to Boulder\nTo coach the football team\nBut if I had a son, sir,\nI'll tell you what he'd do—\nHe'd yell: 'TO HELL WITH BOULDER!'\nLike his daddy used to do.</poem>\n\nThe song is also used by the South Dakota School of Mines and Technology, entitled \"Ramblin' Wreck\" although on campus it is referred to simply as the \"School Song.\" This version is almost identical to the first four lines of \"Ramblin' Wreck from Georgia Tech.\"\n<poem>\nI'm a rambling wreck from Rapid Tech, and a helluva engineer.\na helluva, helluva, helluva, helluva, hell of an engineer.\nLike all my jolly good fellows, I drink my whiskey clear,\nI'm a rambling wreck from Rapid Tech, and a helluva engineer. Hey!</poem>\n\nIn the early 1890s, Ohio State University adapted it and called it \"If I had a Daughter\". At the time Ohio Wesleyan University was their archrival, hence the references to Delaware, Ohio and Methodists. One verse follows:\n<poem>If I had a daughter, I'd dress her up in green,\nI'd send her on the campus to coach the Freshman team;\nAnd if I had a son, I tell you what he'd do\nHe would yell \"To Hell\" with Delaware\"\nAnd yell for O. S. U.</poem>\n\nIn 1895, Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute adapted it and called it \"A Son of Old R.P.I.\" This version includes the lyrics:\n<poem>\nLike every honest fellow,\nI drink my whiskey clear,\nI'm a moral wreck from the Polytech\nAnd a hell of an engineer.</poem>\n\nThe Clemson University Tiger Band's rude songbook, The Unhymnal\", has a four-verse parody of the fight song which is distinctly un-politically correct which derides the Georgia Tech coach, football team and cheerleaders.\n\nIn 1929 Norwegian University of Science and Technology adapted it and called it \"Nu klinger\".\n\n<poem>\nStudenter i den gamle stad, ta vare på byens ry!\nHusk på at jenter, øl og dram var kjempenes meny.\nOg faller I alle mann alle, skal det gjalle fra alle mot sky.\nLa'kke byen få ro, men la den få merke det er en studenterby!\nOg øl og dram, og øl og dram, og øl og dram, og øl og dram.\n</poem>\n\nTwo different sources are claimed to have been the origin for the song's music. The first is the marching tune \"The Bonnie Blue Flag\", published in 1861 by Harry McCarthy. The second, and more widely cited, is Charles Ives' composition of \"Son of a Gambolier\" in 1895.\n\nGeorgia Tech's use of the song is said to have come from an early baseball game against rival Georgia. Some sources credit Billy Walthall, a member of the school's first four-year graduating class, with the lyrics. According to a 1954 article in Sports Illustrated, \"Ramblin' Wreck\" was written around 1893 by a Tech football player on his way to an Auburn game.\nIn 1905, Georgia Tech adopted the tune as its official fight song, though it had already been the unofficial fight song for several years. It was published for the first time in the school's first yearbook, the 1908 Blueprint. Entitled \"What causes Whitlock to Blush\", words such as \"hell\" and \"helluva\" were censored as \"certain words [are] too hot to print\".\n\nAfter Michael A. Greenblatt, Tech's first bandmaster, heard the Georgia Tech band playing the song to the tune of Charles Ives's \"A Son of a Gambolier\", he wrote a modern musical version. In 1911, Frank Roman succeeded Greenblatt as bandmaster; Roman embellished the song with trumpet flourishes and publicized it. Roman copyrighted the song in 1919.\n\nIn 1920, dance instructor Arthur Murray organized the world's first \"radio dance\" while he attended Tech. A band on campus played \"Ramblin' Wreck\" and other songs, which were broadcast to a group of about 150 dancers (mostly Tech students) on the roof of the Capital City Club in downtown Atlanta. Murray also opened the first Arthur Murray Dance Studio while in Atlanta. It was located at the Georgian Terrace Hotel. In 1925, the Columbia Gramophone Company began selling a recording of Tech songs (including \"Ramblin' Wreck\"); Tech was one of the first colleges in the Southern United States to have its songs recorded. The song became immensely popular and was known nationally because of its extensive radio play. In 1947, the song was performed by The Gordonaires in a Soundie entitled \"Let's Sing A College Song\".\n\nOn October 11, 1953, the Georgia Tech Glee Club sang \"Ramblin' Wreck\" on Ed Sullivan's \"Toast of the Town\" program (later known as The Ed Sullivan Show) on CBS. The performance reached a television audience of approximately 30 million viewers. Because only 28 seats were available on the train to the show, Glee Club members auditioned for the available spots. The group prepared three songs—\"Ramblin' Wreck,\" There's Nothin' Like a Dame, and the alma mater. Sullivan made them sing \"heck\" and \"heckuva\" instead of \"hell\" and \"helluva,\" and would not let them sing \"dames.\" According to \"The Technique\", \"The club sang 'Dames' at rehearsal and brought down the house, only to have Sullivan give it the axe.\"\n\nThen-Vice President Richard Nixon and Soviet premier Nikita Khrushchev sang the song together when they met in Moscow in 1959 to reduce the tension between them during the Kitchen Debate. As the story goes, Nixon did not know any Russian songs, but Khrushchev knew that one American song as it had been sung on the Ed Sullivan show.\n\n\"Ramblin' Wreck\" has had many other notable moments in history. It has been reported to be the first school song played in space. Gregory Peck sang the song while strumming a mandolin in the movie \"The Man in the Gray Flannel Suit\". John Wayne whistled it in \"The High and the Mighty\". Tim Holt's character sings a few bars of it in the movie \"His Kind of Woman\". Gordon Jones sings a few stanzas several times in the movie \"My Sister Eileen\". There are numerous stories of commanding officers in Higgins boats crossing the English Channel on the morning of D-Day leading their men in the song to calm their nerves.\n\nThe Edwin H. Morris & Company obtained a copyright to Roman's version in 1931. The copyright to that version expired in 1952, so Greenblatt wrote a new arrangement and applied for a new copyright. In 1953, Greenblatt sold the copyright for the new version to Georgia Tech for one dollar. There was some controversy when MPL Communications acquired the old copyright; a law firm commissioned by Georgia Tech in 1984, Newton, Hopkins & Ormsby, concluded that while there were copyrighted versions of the song, the version used by the school was not copyrighted and falls in the public domain.\n\nOver the years, a few variations of the song have been created at Georgia Tech. In 1998, a 19-member \"Diversity Task Force\" proposed that changes be made to the song because it discriminated against women. The proposal was widely and strongly opposed by students and alumni, and it was dropped. A different request to change the word cheer to join with respect to alumni daughters surfaced in 2015. At the conclusion of the song there is a call of \"Go Jackets!\" responded to with \"Bust their ass!\" Following three of these calls and responses, the song was ended with a call of \"Go Jackets! Fight! Win!\" Recently, however, the student body has yelled \"Fight! Win! Drink! Get Naked!\"\nOn March 28, 2018, a German version of the song premiered during the Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Distinguished Alumni Awards event. The German version, written and arranged by Stephen C. Hall (Industrial Management, 1967), Jerry A. Ulrich (School of Music), and Richard Utz (School of Literature, Media, and Communication), was performed by the Georgia Tech Glee Club in honor of the awarding of the College's Dean's Appreciation Award to Barry (Mechanical Engineering, 1965) and Gail Spurlock, in recognition of their support for program initiatives in Germany, specifically Georgia Tech’s German and German Languages for Business and Technology (LBAT).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2291978", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291978", "title": "Robin Janvrin, Baron Janvrin", "text": "Robin Janvrin, Baron Janvrin\n\nRobin Berry Janvrin, Baron Janvrin, (born 20 September 1946) is a British courtier who was Private Secretary to Elizabeth II from February 1999 to September 2007.\n\nBorn in Cheltenham, Gloucestershire, Robin Berry Janvrin is the son of Vice Admiral Sir Hugh Richard Benest Janvrin and Nancy Edyth Fielding. He was educated at Marlborough College, Britannia Royal Naval College, Dartmouth, and Brasenose College, Oxford, from which he received a first class bachelor's degree in 1969, and of which he was made an Honorary Fellow in 1999. In 1962, he was selected to attend Camp Rising Sun in upstate New York.\n\nJanvrin entered the Royal Navy in 1964, was commissioned as an acting sub-lieutenant on 1 September 1966, promoted lieutenant on 4 March 1971, and served until 2 July 1975. He subsequently became a member of the Castaways' Club. On leaving the navy, Janvrin joined the Foreign and Commonwealth Office. He was a Second Secretary in 1975 and was appointed First Secretary at the mission to NATO in 1976. He was officially appointed an Officer of the Diplomatic Service on 7 February 1979. Janvrin was First Secretary in New Delhi from 1981 to 1984, during which time he was made a Member of the 4th Class of the Royal Victorian Order for services during the state visit by The Queen to India.\n\nJanvrin was then Counsellor and Deputy Head of Department for the Personnel Department of the Foreign and Commonwealth Office from 1985 to 1987.\n\nOn 1 June 1987 Janvrin was recruited as Press Secretary to The Queen, though it was initially thought that he would be appointed Assistant Press Secretary. On 19 October 1990 he became Assistant Private Secretary to The Queen, and in 1996 the Deputy Private Secretary. He was promoted a Commander of the Royal Victorian Order in the 1994 New Year Honours, Knight Commander of the Royal Victorian Order in the 1998 New Year Honours, and a Companion of the Order of the Bath in the 1997 New Year Honours. In February 1999 he succeeded Sir Robert Fellowes (later Lord Fellowes) as Private Secretary to the Queen. He was promoted to Knight Commander of the Order of the Bath in the 2003 New Year Honours.\n\nJanvrin was also a Trustee of the Queen's 80th Birthday Trust, and is the chairman of trustees of The Royal Foundation of The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge and Prince Harry.\n\nJanvrin retired in September 2007, and was succeeded as Private Secretary by Christopher Geidt. He was promoted to Knight Grand Cross of the Order of the Bath in the 2007 Birthday Honours and, on 24 July, it was announced that Janvrin would be made a life peer, as one of the ten public servants whom the Prime Minister may nominate for a peerage, upon their retirement, per Parliament. His title was gazetted as Baron Janvrin, of Chalford Hill in the County of Gloucestershire on 10 October, and he sits as a crossbencher in the House of Lords. On the day of his retirement, 8 September, Janvrin was also promoted to Knight Grand Cross of the Royal Victorian Order by The Queen. In October, The Queen appointed Lord Janvrin to be a Permanent Lord-in-waiting in the Royal Household.\n\nIn the 2008 New Zealand New Year Honours, Lord Janvrin was made a Companion of the Queen's Service Order for \"services to New Zealand as Private Secretary to The Queen\".\n\nOn 7 January 2008 Janvrin took up his appointment of Deputy Chairman, HSBC Private Bank (UK). Janvrin is also Chairman of The Leadership Council, a research and thought leadership body in the UK. In 2008, he replaced Sir Christopher Mallaby as president of the British Entente Cordiale Scholarship trust.\n\nJanvrin married Isabelle de Boissonneaux de Chevigny, daughter of Yann de Boissonneaux de Chevigny, in 1977.\n\nJanvrin was portrayed by Roger Allam in Stephen Frears' \"The Queen\" (2006) starring Oscar-winner Dame Helen Mirren. The film, which deals with the immediate aftermath of the death of Diana, Princess of Wales, in 1997, inaccurately portrays Janvrin, then Deputy Private Secretary to the Sovereign, as Private Secretary. In 1997, the position of Private Secretary was occupied by Robert Fellowes - who was also Diana's brother-in-law, being married to her sister Jane).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2291986", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291986", "title": "Loay", "text": "Loay\n\nLoay may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2291989", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291989", "title": "Panglao", "text": "Panglao\n\nPanglao may refer to either:\n"}
{"id": "2291992", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2291992", "title": "Dizzy Reece", "text": "Dizzy Reece\n\nAlphonso Son \"Dizzy\" Reece (born 5 January 1931) is a Jamaican-born hard bop jazz trumpeter. Reece is among a group of jazz musicians born in Jamaica which includes Bertie King, Joe Harriott, Roland Alphonso, Wilton Gaynair, Sonny Bradshaw and Tommy McCook, trombonist Don Drummond, pianist Monty Alexander, bassist Coleridge Goode, guitarist Ernest Ranglin and percussionists Count Ossie and Lloyd Knibb.\n\nReece was born on 5 January 1931 in Kingston, Jamaica, the son of a silent film pianist. He attended the Alpha Boys School (known for its musical alumni), switching from baritone saxophone to trumpet when he was 14 years old. A full-time musician from the age of 16, he moved to London in 1948 and spent the 1950s working in Europe, much of that time in Paris. He played with Don Byas, Kenny Clarke, Frank Foster and Thad Jones, among others. Recording with British musicians, he led several sessions in London in 1955-1957. Also in London, he recorded what became his first Blue Note album, \"Blues in Trinity\" (1958). Donald Byrd and Art Taylor were his sidemen. Gaining praise from Miles Davis and Sonny Rollins, the trumpeter settled in New York City in 1959 and recorded with several of Davis' bandmates, but found New York in the 1960s a struggle.\n\nReece recorded other records for the Blue Note label, which were reissued by Mosaic in 2004. Still active as a musician and writer, Reece has recorded over the years with Hank Mobley, Wynton Kelly, Paul Chambers, Ronnie Scott, Phil Seaman, Victor Feldman, Tubby Hayes, Paris Reunion Band, Clifford Jordan’s Big Band, tenor saxophonist Dexter Gordon, fellow trumpeter Ted Curson, pianist Duke Jordan, long-time Sun Ra alumni saxophonist John Gilmore, and drummers Philly Joe Jones and Art Taylor.\n\nReece wrote the music for the 1958 Ealing Studios film, \"Nowhere to Go\".\n\n\n\nWith Victor Feldman\nWith Dizzy Gillespie\nWith Dexter Gordon\nWith Andrew Hill\nWith Philly Joe Jones \nWith Clifford Jordan\nWith Duke Jordan\nWith Hank Mobley\n\n"}
{"id": "2292006", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292006", "title": "United States v. Virginia", "text": "United States v. Virginia\n\nUnited States v. Virginia, 518 U.S. 515 (1996), is a landmark case in which the Supreme Court of the United States struck down the long-standing male-only admission policy of the Virginia Military Institute (VMI) in a 7–1 decision. (Justice Clarence Thomas, whose son was enrolled at VMI at the time, recused himself.)\n\nWriting for the majority, Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg stated that because VMI failed to show \"exceedingly persuasive justification\" for its sex-based admissions policy, it violated the Fourteenth Amendment's Equal Protection Clause. In an attempt to satisfy equal protection requirements, the state of Virginia had proposed a parallel program for women, called the Virginia Women's Institute for Leadership (VWIL), located at Mary Baldwin College, a private liberal arts women's college.\n\nHowever, Justice Ginsburg held that the VWIL would not provide women with the same type of rigorous military training, facilities, courses, faculty, financial opportunities, and/or alumni reputation and connections that VMI affords male cadets, a decision evocative of \"Sweatt v. Painter\", when the Court ruled in 1950 that segregated law schools in Texas were unconstitutional, since a newly formed black law school clearly did not provide the same benefits to its students as the state's prestigious and long-maintained white law school. In her opinion, she stated that \"The VWIL program is a pale shadow of VMI in terms of the range of curricular choices and faculty stature, funding, prestige, alumni support and influence.\"\n\nChief Justice William Rehnquist wrote a concurrence agreeing to strike down the male-only admissions policy of the Virginia Military Institute, as violative of the Fourteenth Amendment's Equal Protection Clause. However, he declined to join the majority opinion's basis for using the Fourteenth Amendment, writing: \"Had Virginia made a genuine effort to devote comparable public resources to a facility for women, and followed through on such a plan, it might well have avoided an equal protection violation.\" This rationale supported separate but equal facilities separated on the basis of sex: \"it is not the 'exclusion of women' that violates the Equal Protection Clause, but the maintenance of an all-men school without providing any—much less a comparable—institution for women ... It would be a sufficient remedy, I think, if the two institutions offered the same quality of education and were of the same overall caliber.\"\n\nJustice Scalia's lone dissent argued that the standard applied by the majority was closer to a strict scrutiny standard than the intermediate scrutiny standard applied to previous cases involving equal protection based on sex. Notably, however, the opinion for the Court eschewed either standard; its language did not comport with the \"important governmental interest\" formula used in prior intermediate scrutiny cases. Scalia argued that \"if the question of the applicable standard of review for sex-based classifications were to be regarded as an appropriate subject for reconsideration, the stronger argument would be not for elevating the standard to strict scrutiny, but for reducing it to rational-basis review.\"\n\nWith the VMI decision, the high court effectively struck down any law which, as Justice Ginsburg wrote, \"denies to women, simply because they are women, full citizenship stature — equal opportunity to aspire, achieve, participate in and contribute to society.\"\n\nFollowing the ruling, VMI contemplated going private to exempt itself from the 14th Amendment, and thus this ruling. The Department of Defense warned the school that it would withdraw all ROTC programs from the school if this privatization took place. As a result of the DOD action, Congress amended , to prohibit the military from withdrawing or diminishing any ROTC program at one of the six senior military colleges, including VMI. However, VMI's Board of Visitors had already voted 8–7 to admit women and did not revisit the issue after the law was amended.\n\nVMI was the last all-male public university in the United States. \"United States v. Virginia\" is now a seminal case discussed in most Constitutional Law classes, which most students take during their first year of law school.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2292029", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292029", "title": "Lynn Bari", "text": "Lynn Bari\n\nLynn Bari (born Margaret Schuyler Fisher, December 18, 1913 – November 20, 1989) was a film actress who specialized in playing sultry, statuesque man-killers in roughly 150 20th Century Fox films from the early 1930s through the 1940s.\n\nBari was born in Roanoke, Virginia, and raised in Lynchburg, Virginia, moving to Los Angeles, California, with her family in her early teenage years.\n\nBari was one of 14 young women \"launched on the trail of film stardom\" August 6, 1935, when they each received a six-month contract with 20th Century Fox after spending 18 months in the company's training school. The contracts included a studio option for renewal for as long as seven years.\n\nIn most of her early films, Bari had uncredited parts usually playing receptionists or chorus girls. She struggled to find starring roles in films, but accepted any work she could get. Rare leading roles included \"China Girl\" (1942), \"Hello, Frisco, Hello\" (1943), and \"The Spiritualist\" (1948). In B movies, Bari was usually cast as a villainess, notably \"Shock\" and \"Nocturne\" (both 1946). An exception was \"The Bridge of San Luis Rey\" (1944). During WWII, according to a survey taken of GIs, Bari was the second-most popular pinup girl after the much better-known Betty Grable.\n\nBari's film career fizzled out in the early 1950s as she was approaching her 40th birthday, although she continued to work at a more limited pace over the next two decades, now playing matronly characters rather than temptresses. She portrayed the mother of a suicidal teenager in a 1951 drama, \"On the Loose\", plus a number of supporting parts.\n\nBari's last film appearance was as the mother of rebellious teenager Patty McCormack in \"The Young Runaways\" (1968).\n\nShe quickly took up the rising medium of television during the '50s, which began when she starred in the live television sitcom \"Detective's Wife\", which ran during the summer of 1950. In 1952, Bari starred in her own situation comedy, \"Boss Lady\", a summer replacement for NBC's \"Fireside Theater\". She portrayed Gwen F. Allen, the beautiful top executive of a construction firm. Not the least of her troubles in the role was being able to hire a general manager who did not fall in love with her.\n\nIn 1955, Bari appeared in the episode \"The Beautiful Miss X\" of Rod Cameron's syndicated crime drama \"City Detective\". In 1960, she played female bandit Belle Starr in the debut episode \"Perilous Passage\" of the NBC western series \"Overland Trail\" starring William Bendix and Doug McClure and with fellow guest star Robert J. Wilke as Cole Younger.\n\nHer final TV appearances were in episodes of \"The Girl From U.N.C.L.E.\" and \"The FBI\"\n\nCommenting on her \"other woman\" roles, Bari once said, \"I seem to be a woman always with a gun in her purse. I'm terrified of guns. I go from one set to the other shooting people and stealing husbands!\"\n\nBari was the only daughter of John Maynard Fisher, a native of Tennessee, and his wife, Marjorie Halpen of New York. She had a younger brother, John. Fisher died in 1920, and his widow moved the family to Lynchburg, Virginia. Here Bari's mother met and married the Reverend Robert Bitzer, a Religious Science minister. Assigned a position with his church in Boston, Bitzer moved the family to Massachusetts. Bari later recalled other children at school in Boston made life miserable for her brother and her, making constant fun of their obvious Southern accents. She determined to eliminate hers, becoming involved with amateur theatrics and taking elocution lessons. Bari was enthusiastic when at the age of 13 she was told her stepfather had been reassigned to Los Angeles, where he later became the head of the Institute of Religious Science.\n\nHer stage name, selected as 'Lynn Barrie' while at dramatic school at 14, is a composite of theater actress Lynn Fontanne and author J. M. Barrie. After reading a story about the Italian city of Bari, she decided to change the spelling.\n\nA staunch Republican, Bari actively supported conservative causes, campaigned for Republican presidential candidates from Hoover to Reagan, and was a regular attendee of GOP national conventions.\n\nIn 2010, in an authorized biography by film historian Jeff Gordon titled \"Foxy Lady\" written from interviews completed shortly before Bari's death, she suggests that, despite a 35 year career with over 166 film and television roles, a more promising career was sabotaged by unresolved problems with her domineering, alcoholic mother and three marriages.\n\nBari was married to agent Walter Kane, producer Sid Luft, and psychiatrist Dr. Nathan Rickles. Luft married Bari November 28, 1943. They divorced December 26, 1950. She and Rickles wed August 30, 1955; they divorced in 1972. Bari's first child, a daughter with Luft, was born August 7, 1945, in St. John's Hospital in Santa Monica, California, but died the next day. Two years later, she had a son, John Michael Luft (b. 1948). John Michael was the subject of \"a bitter custody battle\" between Luft and Bari. A judge in Los Angeles ruled in Bari's favor in November 1958, ruling that the Luft household \"was an improper place in which to rear the boy.\"\n\nIn the 1960s, Bari toured in a production of \"Barefoot in the Park\", playing the bride's mother. After retiring from acting in the 1970s, Bari moved to Santa Monica, California. In her last years, she suffered increasing problems with arthritis.\n\nOn November 20, 1989, Bari was found dead in her home of an apparent heart attack. She was cremated and her ashes scattered at sea. \n\nBari has two stars on the Hollywood Walk of Fame, one for motion pictures, at 6116 Hollywood Boulevard, and one for television, at 6323 Hollywood Boulevard.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2292030", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292030", "title": "Iodometry", "text": "Iodometry\n\nIodometry, known as iodometric titration, is a method of volumetric chemical analysis, a redox titration where the appearance or disappearance of elementary iodine indicates the end point.\n\nNote that iodometry involves indirect titration of iodine liberated by reaction with the analyte, whereas iodimetry involves direct titration using iodine as the titrant.\n\nRedox titration using sodium thiosulphate, NaSO (usually) as a reducing agent is known as iodometric titration since it is used specifically to titrate iodine. The iodometric titration is a general method to determine the concentration of an oxidising agent in solution. In an iodometric titration, a starch solution is used as an indicator since it can absorb the I that is released. This absorption will cause the solution to change its colour from deep blue to light yellow when titrated with standardised thiosulfate solution. This indicates the end point of the titration. Iodometry is commonly used to analyze the concentration of oxidizing agents in water samples, such as oxygen saturation in ecological studies or active chlorine in swimming pool water analysis.\nTo a known volume of sample, an excess but known amount of iodide is added, which the oxidizing agent then oxidizes to iodine. Iodine dissolves in the iodide-containing solution to give triiodide ions, which have a dark brown color. The triiodide ion solution is then titrated against standard thiosulfate solution to give iodide again using starch indicator:\n\nTogether with reduction potential of thiosulfate:\n\nThe overall reaction is thus:\n\nFor simplicity, the equations will usually be written in terms of aqueous molecular iodine rather than the triiodide ion, as the iodide ion did not participate in the reaction in terms of mole ratio analysis. The disappearance of the deep blue color is, due to the decomposition of the iodine-starch clathrate, marks the end point.\n\nThe reducing agent used does not necessarily need to be thiosulfate; stannous chloride, sulfites, sulfides, arsenic(III), and antimony(III) salts are commonly used alternatives. at higher pH (> 8)).\n\nAt low pH, the following reaction might occur with thiosulfate:\n\nSome reactions involving certain reductants are reversible at certain pH, thus the pH of the sample solution should be carefully adjusted before the performing the analysis. For example, the reaction:\n\nis reversible at pH < 4.\n\nThe volatility of iodine is also a source of error for the titration, this can be effectively prevented by ensuring an excess iodide is present and cooling the titration mixture. Strong light, nitrite and copper ions catalyzes the conversion of iodide to iodine, so these should be removed prior to the addition of iodide to the sample.\n\nFor prolonged titrations, it is advised to add dry ice to the titration mixture to displace air from the erlenmeyer flask so as to prevent the aerial oxidation of iodide to iodine. Standard iodine solution is prepared from potassium iodate and potassium iodide, which are both primary standards):\n\nIodine in organic solvents, such as diethyl ether and carbon tetrachloride, may be titrated against sodium thiosulfate dissolved in acetone.\n\nIodometry in its many variations is extremely useful in volumetric analysis. Examples include the determination of copper(II), chlorate, Hydrogen peroxide, and dissolved oxygen:\n\nAvailable chlorine refers to chlorine liberated by the action of dilute acids on hypochlorite. Iodometry is commonly employed to determine the active amount of hypochlorite in bleach responsible for the bleaching action. In this method, excess but known amount of iodide is added to known volume of sample, in which only the active (electrophilic) can oxidize iodide to iodine. The iodine content and thus the active chlorine content can be determined with iodometry.\n\nThe determination of arsenic(V) compounds is the reverse of the standardization of iodine solution with sodium arsenite, where a known and excess amount of iodide is added to the sample:\n\nFor analysis of antimony(V) compounds, some tartaric acid is added to solubilize the antimony(III) product.\n\nSulfites and hydrogensulfites reduce iodine readily in acidic medium to iodide. Thus when a diluted but excess amount of standard iodine solution is added to known volume of sample, the sulfurous acid and sulfites present reduces iodine quantitatively:\n\nAlthough the sulfide content in sample can be determined straight forwardly as described for sulfites, the results are often poor and inaccurate. A better, alternative method with higher accuracy is available, which involves the addition of excess but known volume of standard sodium arsenite solution to the sample, during which arsenic trisulfide is precipitated:\n\nThe excess arsenic trioxide is then determined by titrating against standard iodine solution using starch indicator. Note that for the best results, the sulfide solution must be dilute with the sulfide concentration not greater than 0.01 M.\n\nWhen iodide is added to a solution of hexacyanoferrate(III), the following equilibrium exists:\n\nUnder strongly acidic solution, the above equilibrium lies far to the right hand side, but is reversed in almost neutral solution. This makes analysis of hexacyanoferrate (III) troublesome as the iodide and thiosulfate decomposes in strongly acidic medium. To drive the reaction to completion, an excess amount of zinc salt can be added to the reaction mixture containing potassium ions, which precipitates the hexacyanoferrate(II) ion quantitatively:\n\nThe precipitation occurs in slightly acidic medium, thus avoids the problem of decomposition of iodide and thiosulfate in strongly acidic medium, and the hexacyanoferrate(III) can be determined by iodometry as usual.\n"}
{"id": "2292036", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292036", "title": "Blue Poles", "text": "Blue Poles\n\nBlue Poles, also known as Number 11, 1952 is an abstract expressionist painting by American artist Jackson Pollock. It was purchased amid controversy by the National Gallery of Australia in 1973 and today remains one of the gallery's major paintings.\n\nAt the time of the painting's creation, Pollock preferred not to assign names to his works, but rather numbers; hence, the original title of the painting was simply \"Number 11\" or \"No. 11\" for the year 1952. In 1954, the new title \"Blue Poles\" was first seen at an exhibition at the Sidney Janis Gallery and reportedly originated from Pollock himself.\n\nAccording to art historian Dennis Phillips, the specific rather than ambiguous title \"limits our field of comprehension and does the painting a singular disservice. Because we look for the poles and miss much of the rest, the name is simply too distracting.\"\n\nThe National Gallery of Australia (NGA) purchased \"Blue Poles\" in 1973 for . The gallery's director at the time, James Mollison, was not able to authorise purchases over $1 million, so the acquisition was approved by Prime Minister Gough Whitlam who decided that the price should be made public.\n\nThe purchase elicited a great deal of public discussion; according to art historian Patrick McCaughey, \"never had such a picture moved and disturbed the Australian public\". The debate centred on the painting's record selling price, at the time a world record for a contemporary American painting, as well as the perceived financial ineptitude of Whitlam's Labor Party government and debate over the relative value of abstract art. In the conservative climate of the time, the purchase created a political and media scandal.\n\nIn 1998, \"Blue Poles\" left Australia for the first time since its purchase for inclusion in a Pollock retrospective at the Museum of Modern Art in New York which ran from 1 November 1998 to 2 February 1999. The painting was the signature work of the exhibition, and as described in a review, it \"dominated\" the last gallery of the show, ending it \"not with a whimper, but a bang\".\n\nWhile rarely loaned, the work was displayed as part of the Royal Academy's Abstract Expressionism exhibition from 24 September 2016 to 2 January 2017 in London, before returning to the NGA and being rehung in level 2.\n\nThe painting has become one of the most popular exhibits in the gallery, for both its value as a major work of 1950s abstract expressionism, and its significance in Australian politics and history. Estimates of the painting's present value vary widely, from $100 million to $350 million, but its increased value has at least shown it to have been a worthwhile purchase from a financial point of view.\n\n"}
{"id": "2292041", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292041", "title": "Grantchester Meadows (song)", "text": "Grantchester Meadows (song)\n\n\"Grantchester Meadows\" is the second track from the studio disc of the experimental Pink Floyd album \"Ummagumma.\" It was written and performed entirely by Roger Waters. The song features his lyrics accompanied by an acoustic guitar played by Waters himself, while a tape loop of a skylark chirps in the background throughout the entire song. At approximately 4:13, the sound of a honking goose is temporarily introduced, followed by the sound of it taking off. As the instrumental track fades out, an incessant buzzing bee which has been heard throughout the song is chased after by an unidentified person (represented by the sound of footsteps) and finally swatted, cutting abruptly to the next track.\n\nThis song was one of several to be considered for, but ultimately excluded from, the band's \"best of\" album, \"\". A live version of the song was released as the first single to promote \"The Early Years 1965–1972\" box set in 2016.\n\nThe lyrics describe a pastoral and dream-like scene at the Grantchester Meadows in Cambridgeshire, close to where fellow band member David Gilmour lived at the time. This type of pastoral ballad was typical of Roger Waters' compositional approach in the late sixties and early seventies. It was a style that he was to continue on his first album outside of Pink Floyd – \"Music from \"The Body\"\" (in collaboration with Ron Geesin) and \"If\" from \"Atom Heart Mother\". It is one of the many Pink Floyd songs that praise the British countryside.\n\nThe song is noted for its use of stereo effects and sound panning to create an illusion of space and depth.\n\n\"Grantchester Meadows\" was incorporated into Pink Floyd's \"The Man and the Journey\" concert suite as \"Daybreak\". It was performed live during the 1970 US tour, often opening the show. Live renditions of the song included Gilmour on a second acoustic guitar and providing vocals during the chorus, as well as Richard Wright playing two piano solos—one after the second verse's chorus and one during the coda (these solos were later played on the Farfisa organ).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2292047", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292047", "title": "External iliac vein", "text": "External iliac vein\n\nThe external iliac veins are large veins that connect the femoral veins to the common iliac veins. Their origin is at the inferior margin of the inguinal ligaments and they terminate when they join the internal iliac veins (to form the common iliac veins).\n\nBoth external iliac veins are accompanied along their course by external iliac arteries.\n\nA continuation of the femoral vein, the external iliac vein starts at the level of the inguinal ligament. It runs beside its corresponding artery and along the brim of the lesser pelvis to unite with the internal iliac vein anterior to the sacroiliac joint where it forms the common iliac vein.\n\nThe left external iliac vein remains medial to the artery along its whole path. The right external iliac vein is medial to the artery, but as it ascends, it runs posterior to it.\n\nThe external iliac vein is crossed by the ureter and internal iliac artery which both extend towards the middle. In males it is crossed by the vas deferens and in females the round ligament and ovarian vessels cross it. Psoas major lies to its side, except where the artery intervenes.\n\nThe external iliac vein may have one valve, but often has no valves.\n\nIn addition to pubic veins, the main tributaries of the external iliac veins are the inferior epigastric veins and the deep circumflex iliac vein.\n\nIn 1967, Cockett noted anatomical variations which predisposed to compression of the external iliac vein, amongst other veins. Although less common than May-Thurner syndrome, it is being progressively documented due to modern imaging methods. Compression of the left external iliac vein by the right common iliac artery or left hypogastric artery can occur as it crosses over the vein into the pelvis. The right external iliac vein can similarly be compressed. Such compressions may contribute to deep vein thrombosis.\n\nFailure to develop or agenesis of the external iliac vein has been described in association with Klippel–Trenaunay syndrome \n\n"}
{"id": "2292050", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292050", "title": "Hollym (publishing house)", "text": "Hollym (publishing house)\n\nHollym is a publishing house with offices in Seoul, Korea and California, United States. The company was formerly based in New Jersey. The US company has been publishing books on Korea and Korea-related topics since 1977. Its CEO is Ham Ki-man. The company is divided between Hollym International Corp. which handles US publishing and international distribution, and Korea-based Hollym Publishing. The Korean corporation was founded in 1963.\n\nHollym publishes books on Korean art, cooking, fiction (including short stories), language, religion and philosophy, social sciences, sports, and travel.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2292057", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292057", "title": "Alton Edwards", "text": "Alton Edwards\n\nAlton Edwards is a Zimbabwean singer, who had a UK Top 20 hit with \"I Just Wanna (Spend Some Time With You)\" during January 1982.\nHe wrote and recorded a song called \"Thank You from Africa\" which was a song to thank the Western artists for the help given to Africa, mostly to Ethiopia. The song is still played on Zimbabwean TV and some other African countries. All proceeds were collected by the International Red Cross.\n\nEdwards is uncle to Warren Mills who had hits with \"Mickey's Monkey\" and \"Sunshine\" on the Zomba / Jive Records label. Mills is also a cousin to Rozalla, who had hits with \"Everybody's Free\" and \"Are You Ready To Fly\". Edwards is still an active singer on the UK circuit. He works frequently with Angelo Starr (Edwin Starr's brother) and Alexander O'Neal.\n\nEdwards appears as himself in the 2011 documentary \"Dreams of a Life\".\n"}
{"id": "2292062", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292062", "title": "Yip Wing-sie", "text": "Yip Wing-sie\n\nYip Wing-sie (; born 1960 in Guangzhou, China) is a Hong Kong musician.\n\nA highly respected and influential figure in Asia’s orchestral music scene, Yip Wing-sie has been the Music Director of Hong Kong Sinfonietta since 2002. Positions she has previously held Principal Conductor and later Music Director of Guangzhou Symphony Orchestra and Resident Conductor of Hong Kong Philharmonic Orchestra.\n\nWinner of the First Prize as well as \"LYRE d’OR\" in the 35th \"Concours International de Jeunes Chefs d’Orchestre de Besançon\", France in 1985 and a prizewinner in the 8th Tokyo International Conducting Competition in 1988, Yip is in great demand as a guest conductor in Asia. Orchestras she has conducted include the Central Philharmonic Orchestra of China, China National Symphony Orchestra, Shanghai Symphony Orchestra, Seoul Philharmonic, Osaka Philharmonic, New Japan Philharmonic, Tokyo Mozart Players, the symphony orchestras of Sapporo, Yomiuri, Taiwan, Tasmania, Melbourne and Queensland as well as the Auckland Philharmonia of New Zealand. In Europe, Yip’s engagements have included concerts with the Orchestre National du Capitol de Toulouse and the Chambre Orchestre de Besançon in France, Warsaw Philharmonic in Poland, Spain’s Tenerife Symphony Orchestra and the Czech State Orchestra of Košice. She has also conducted at prestigious venues and festivals such as the Vienna Musikverein (Grossersaal), Beijing Music Festival, Fukuoka’s Asian Month Festival in Japan, Hong Kong Arts Festival and Macao International Music Festival. Yip has collaborated with such renowned artists as Augustin Dumay, Fou Ts’ong, Shlomo Mintz, Anne-Sophie Mutter, Itzhak Perlman and Pinchas Zukerman. Operas she has conducted include Guo Wen-jin’s \"Poet Li Bai\" and the world première of \"La Peintre\" with Taiwan Philharmonic.\n\nAs Music Director of Hong Kong Sinfonietta, Yip has taken the orchestra on tour in recent years to Switzerland, France, Italy, Poland, Lithuania, Canada, the USA, Japan, Korea, Beijing, Shanghai, and in South America in Argentina, Brazil and Uruguay.\n\nBorn in Guangzhou and brought up in Hong Kong, Yip graduated from the Royal College of Music in London and Indiana University at Bloomington, USA, where she obtained her master's degree in violin performance and conducting. As the winner of the Koussevitsky Scholarship and the Seiji Ozawa Fellowship Award, Yip also attended the conducting seminar and fellowship programmes at the Tanglewood Music Center. Her mentors included great maestros such as Norman Del Mar, Leonard Bernstein, Seiji Ozawa, Gustav Meier and David Atherton.\n\nAccolades Yip has received internationally include \"Chevalier de l’Ordre National du Mérite\" bestowed by the French Government (2015), \"Chevalier dans l’Ordre des Arts et des Lettres\" by the Ministry of Culture and Communication of France, Fellow of the Royal College of Music (FRCM), and she was also named the Ong Teng Cheong Distinguished Visiting Professor at the Yong Siew Toh Conservatory of Music, National University of Singapore. In Hong Kong, she was awarded \"Hong Kong Women of Excellence in the Six Arts Award\" by the Hong Kong Federation of Women and the Bronze Bauhinia Star (BBS) by the Hong Kong Government, and was named University Artist at The University of Hong Kong.\n"}
{"id": "2292066", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292066", "title": "Jim Chim", "text": "Jim Chim\n\nJim Chim Sui-man (; born 6 May 1965) is a Hong Kong-based stage actor and comedian.\n\nJim Chim, Associate Artistic Director of Theatre Ensemble, co-founded the company with Olivia Yan in 1993. Since then, he has been performing and directing performances that have been critically acclaimed and popular with Hong Kong audiences. He is widely recognized for his distinctive brand of humour, physical movement and performance style.\n\nHe was presented with the first Drama Development Fellowship from Hong Kong Arts Development Council Drama Committee in 2000. He also received the Best Supporting Actor Award and the Best Actor Award from the Hong Kong Federation of Drama Society in 1998 and 2000, respectively.\n\nApart from creative and performing achievements, Chim also devoted himself to theatre training and established the PIP-Pleasure In Play artistic concept. In 2003, he founded the PIP School, not only providing professional training in performing arts, but also further conveying the PIP style of living. He has been invited to conduct acting and movement workshops for local and overseas universities and professional arts organizations, including Ecole Philippe Gaulier (UK), The Theatre Practice (Singapore), National Drama Company of China, U-Theatre (Taiwan) and the very first full-time theatre school in Tokyo established by New National Theatre (Japan).\n\nChim has worked with both foreign and local artists, including David Glass and Meng Jin Hui. In recent years, he has also been highly involved in local cinema and has appeared in movies such as \"You Shoot, I Shoot\", \"Men Suddenly in Black\", \"Isabella\", \"McDull, the Alumni\" and \"Driving Miss Wealthy\". For the last, he was a Best Supporting Actor nominee at the 24th Hong Kong Film Awards. He also lent his voice in various Cantonese Chinese dubs of Hollywood films, most notably as adult Simba in \"The Lion King\" (1994) and as Dave Douglas in \"The Shaggy Dog\" (2006).\n\nIn 2004, Chim was honored with the “Men of Vision 2004” award by Royal Salute and was invited by the U.S. Department of State’s Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs to visit the United States in August 2006 as a grantee of its cultural exchange program, the International Visitor Leadership Program (IVLP).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2292069", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292069", "title": "Inotera", "text": "Inotera\n\nInotera Memories, Inc. (Traditional Chinese: 華亞科技, Hanyu Pinyin: huā yǎ kē jì) was a company incorporated as a joint venture between Nanya Technology Corporation and Infineon (later Qimonda) in Taiwan in January 2003. The company was acquired by Micron Technology in 2016. It was renamed to Micron Technology Taiwan, Inc. and became one of Micron's manufacturing locations.\n\nIn 2008, Micron Technology acquired a 35.5% stake in Inotera from Qimonda as Qimonda underwent restructuring. The Company reached full conversion to 70 nm shrink technology at the end of June 2008 and started pilot production of Micron’s 50 nm stack process technology from the third quarter of 2009 in order to further improve the productivity and to reduce manufacturing unit cost.\n\nIn January 2013, Micron announced an amendment to the joint development agreement with Nanya that gave Micron access to all of Inotera's manufacturing output based on market pricing.\n\nIn December 2016, Micron completed the acquisition at a transaction value of approximately US$4.0 billion.\n\n"}
{"id": "2292074", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292074", "title": "Raphaël Confiant", "text": "Raphaël Confiant\n\nRaphaël Confiant (born January 25, 1951) is a Martinican writer known for his literary commitment towards Creole literature.\n\nRaphaël Confiant was born in Le Lorrain, Martinique. He studied English and political science at the Sciences Po Aix and law at Paul Cézanne University in Aix-en-Provence, France. During the 1970s, Confiant became a militant proponent of use of the Creole language and later worked with Jean Bernabé and Patrick Chamoiseau to create the créolité movement. The three authors co-authored the seminal text of the créolité movement, \"Eloge de la créolité\" (In Praise of Creoleness, 1989), in addition to other theoretical texts. The créolité movement is often characterized as a reaction to the Négritude movement, which emphasized the African origins of the Antillean people. The créolité movement, on the other hand, emphasizes the diversity of Antillean ancestry and cultural heritage, which includes Chinese, Indian, and European influences, among others. The movement seeks to understand the diverse identities and histories of the people of the Antilles through the lens of literature and language and eschews the universal in favor of a diverse view of language and identity.\n\nConfiant is a well-known writer in both Creole and French and is currently a lecturer at the University of the French West Indies and Guiana (UAG).\n\nAfter publishing his first novels in Creole and suffering very poor sales, Confiant took another approach in 1988 by publishing his first French-language novel, \"Le Nègre et l'Amiral\", set in Martinique during World War II. The novel was welcomed by the French literary crowd as a new voice in French-language literature. Narrowly missing the Goncourt Prize in 1991 with his second French novel, \"Eau de Café\", Confiant has ever since continued writing in French, even translating his first Creole-language novels. The themes of his last novels seem to be dictated by the anniversaries of French West Indian events like the 1902 Mount Pelée eruption (with \"Nuée Ardente\", published in 2002) or the 1854 arrival of East-Indian indentured servants (\"La Panse du Chacal\", 2004).\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2292079", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292079", "title": "Kill!", "text": "Kill!\n\nTatsuya Nakadai stars as Genta, a former samurai who became disillusioned with the samurai lifestyle and left it behind to become a wandering yakuza gang member. He meets Hanjirō Tabata (Etsushi Takahashi) a farmer who wants to become a samurai to escape his powerless existence. Genta and Tabata wind up on opposite sides of clan intrigue when seven members of a local clan assassinate their chancellor. Although the seven, led by Tetsutarō Oikawa (Naoko Kubo) rebelled with the support of their superior, Ayuzawa (Shigeru Kōyama), he turns on them and sends members of the clan to kill them as outlaws.\n\nThe film is a comically exaggerated exploration of what it is to be a samurai. The characters either give up samurai status or fight to attain it, and samurai are seen behaving both honorably and very badly. The film has a parodic tone, with numerous references to earlier samurai films.\n\n\n\"Kill!\" was released theatrically in Japan on 22 June 1968 where it was distributed by Toho. It was released in the United States by Frank lee International with English subtitles on August 1968.\n\nAlong with \"Human Bullet\" and \"Judge and Jeopardy\", \"Kill!\" gave art director Iwao Akune the award for Best Art Direction at the Mainichi Film Concours.\n\n"}
{"id": "2292085", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292085", "title": "Waterfall Bay", "text": "Waterfall Bay\n\nWaterfall Bay may refer to: \n\n"}
{"id": "2292089", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292089", "title": "Dogs (British band)", "text": "Dogs (British band)\n\nDogs was a post-punk-influenced indie rock band from London. They toured with Paul Weller and Razorlight. Their first album, \"Turn Against This Land\", released on 19 September 2005, was recorded at Sawmills Studio in Cornwall, produced by John Cornfield. It was released by Island Records and received critical acclaim from the UK press. It contained the singles \"London Bridge/End of an Era\" (double A-side), \"Tuned to a Different Station\" and \"Selfish Ways\", each charting in the UK chart top 40. Dogs returned during 2007, under Weekender Records, with three singles: \"Soldier On\", followed by \"This Stone Is a Bullet\" and thirdly \"Dirty Little Shop\", released on 18 June 2007. The song \"Chained to No-One\" was released at the end of 2007 as a download-only single.\n\nThe band released their second album, \"Tall Stories from Under the Table\" on 25 June 2007. On 19 November 2008 it was announced that original drummer, Rich Mitchell had left the band amicably to join the band Chapel Club and a replacement found in Paul Warren. On 18 August 2009 it was announced that rhythm guitarist and backing vocalist, Luciano Vargas, had left the band amicably to pursue a family lifestyle. Luciano's replacement was found in rhythm guitarist Kevin Iverson, previously frontman of the band Springtide Cavalry. Iverson announced in December 2010 that he would be leaving Dogs for personal reasons.\n\nThe band released an EP on 14 June 2010, entitled \"We Are The Dogs\", released independently without any label or PR output. Also, in early 2011, Dogs released a free seven track EP through their Facebook page entitled 'Fly Like Eagles'. \n\nOn 21 June 2011 lead singer Johnny Cooke announced that the band were separating via a message on their official forum.\n\nOn 11 May 2007 a concert was recorded at the Weekender Club in Innsbruck Austria. A double LP + CD of this concert was released on 4 November 2016.\n\n\n\nFrom \"Turn Against This Land\"\n\nFrom \"Tall Stories from Under the Table\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2292091", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292091", "title": "Herbert Taylor (British Army officer)", "text": "Herbert Taylor (British Army officer)\n\nLieutenant-General Sir Herbert Taylor (29 September 1775 – 20 March 1839) was the first Private Secretary to the Sovereign of the United Kingdom, serving Kings George III, George IV and William IV.\nTaylor was the son of Rev. Edward Taylor of Bifrons, Patrixbourne, Kent and his wife Margaret Payler daughter of Thomas Turner Payler of Ileden, who died at Brussels in 1780. The diplomat Sir Brook Taylor was his younger brother. He joined the 2nd Dragoon Guards as a cornet in 1794. Later that year he was promoted to lieutenant and then the following year to captain. In 1795 he served as assistant secretary and aide de camp to the Duke of York, then commander-in-chief of the British Army. Taylor was later the Duke of York's assistant military secretary, an office he held until 1798. He was later a Major. In 1798 he was made Aide de Camp, Military Secretary and Private Secretary to the Marquess Cornwallis, Lord Lieutenant of Ireland. In the following year he returned to the Duke of York's service and remained there until 1805, although he was transferred to the 9th West Indian Regiment as a lieutenant-colonel in 1801.\n\nHowever, in the following year, with a period of relative calm in the midst of the Napoleonic Wars, he was placed on half pay. In that year he joined the Coldstream Guards, in which he became a brevet colonel in 1810. In 1805 he became private secretary to King George III, and then, from 1811 private secretary to Queen Charlotte, the queen consort. He retained that office until 1818.\n\nTaylor commanded a brigade at Antwerp 1813–1814, and was sent on a diplomatic mission to Bernadotte of Sweden in 1814. He was Member of Parliament (MP) for Windsor 1820–23. From 1820 to 1827 he was Ambassador to Berlin and then Military Secretary, having become colonel for life of the 85th Foot Regiment in 1823. He was first and principal aide de camp to King George IV in 1827, and also deputy Secretary at War. From 1828 to 1830 he was Adjutant-General to the Forces. He became private secretary to the new king, William IV, in 1830. On the death of the king in 1837 he retired, although he was first and principal aide de camp to Queen Victoria 1837–39.\n\nTaylor became a Major-General in 1813, and a Lieutenant-General in 1825. He was Master of St Katherine's Hospital, Regent's Park, and Master Surveyor and Surveyor-General of the Ordnance from 1828. He died in 1839. The monument to him at St. Katherine's is by the sculptor Peter Rouw.\n\n \n"}
{"id": "2292099", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292099", "title": "Edmonton Grads", "text": "Edmonton Grads\n\nThe Edmonton Grads were a Canadian women's basketball team. While long disbanded, the team continues to hold the North American record for the women's sports team with the best winning percentage. The Grads won the first women's world title in basketball in 1924.\n\nIn 1912, 25-year-old teacher John Percy Page had moved from Ontario to Edmonton, Alberta, where he was employed by local high schools to organize commercial classes. Page soon taught commercial classes at the newly-established McDougall High School. When Page decided to organize basketball teams for the school, his teaching assistant chose to coach the boys team, while Page coached the girls. Despite having only a basic knowledge of basketball, Page improved his understanding of the sport through study. He held practices twice-weekly. The high school had no gym, so students practiced basketball on an outdoor court throughout the year, even during frigid winter weather. Beginning their first year of competitive play in 1914, the McDougall High School girls team won a local high school tournament.\n\nUpon graduation from McDougall High School in mid-1915, the team members decided they wanted to continue playing basketball, establishing what eventually became the Commercial Graduates Basketball Club. Their new basketball team was called the Commercial Graduates (known informally as \"the Grads\"). Page remained coach for the team. Members were recruited primarily from McDougall High School students and graduates, but also from other business and technical schools. Page also established a feeder system to train and recruit his new players: promising high school students were invited to join a secondary team called the Gradettes, and the best Gradettes were promoted to the Grads whenever a space opened up.\n\nIn 1915, the Grads defeated women's basketball teams across Alberta to become provincial champions. Teams were allowed to challenge the title holders to a match at any time during the year—with a three-month wait between rematches, if defeated—and the Grads successfully held on to their trophy for the next several years.. In 1917, with a growing reputation for beating all challengers, the Grads retained their provincial champion status without needing to defend it once. \n\nIn April 27 1919, the University of Alberta Varsity team challenged the Grads, winning the match by two points and taking the trophy. In November of that year, the Grads had a rematch and successfully regained their title as provincial champions. The University of Alberta challenged the Grads again in April 1920 and lost the match, but immediately demanded another game, complaining that the Grads had improperly allowed a younger high-school-aged player on their team. After another game, the Grads lost the title to their rivals once more.\n\nIn 1923, Canadian and American women's basketball champion teams competed for the first international Underwood Trophy. The Edmonton Grads faced off against the Cleveland Favorite-Knits and defeated them with a two-game score of 53–33, becoming the inaugural Underwood Trophy winners.\n\nThe Grads retained their amateur status to make sure they would be eligible for the Olympics if basketball was made an official Olympic sport. In 1924, the Grads were invited to play at the summer Olympic games in Paris. They won every game, defeating women's teams from Paris, Roubaix, Strasbourg and Lille with an average score of 60-10. After their final match, the team traveled through Europe on holiday. Page and two of his players — Winnie Martin and Daisy Johnson — returned to Paris for the third congress of the Fédération Sportive Féminine Internationale (International Women's Sports Federation). The federation formally admitted Canada as a member and declared the Grads world basketball champions, permitting the team to hold the title until the next world games.\n\nReturning home as world champions, the Grads gained new sponsors and financial support in Canada. Page secured the Edmonton Arena as a permanent home venue for the team. Although the Grads were hopeful of returning to Europe for the Women's World Games of 1926, basketball was not included at that year's event, and the Grads remained in North America to compete against Canadian and American teams.\n\nOver the next two years, the Grads advocated for the inclusion of basketball — both men's and women's — as a sport at the 1928 Summer Olympics. Despite support from the Canadian Olympic Committee, this request was denied by the International Olympic Committee, and basketball did not receive a place on the program. However, the Fédération Sportive Féminine Internationale had organized a European women's basketball tour in cooperation with the Olympics, and the federation invited the Grads to travel to Amsterdam, Netherlands, to defend their world title. After winning the Canadian women's championship of 1928, the Grads arrived in Europe and played nine matches. They won every match, beating most teams by 60 or 70 points, and the Grads finished their tour by defeating the French champions by 46-14.\n\nIn addition to dominating their sport in North America, the Grads also took on the best teams in Europe, ultimately defeating challengers in Paris, London, Amsterdam, and Berlin. The Grads swept four consecutive Olympic Games from 1924 to 1936, winning all 24 Olympic matches they played. This achievement was unrecognized on the medal podium, however, as women's basketball did not become an official Olympic sport until the 1976 summer games in Montreal.\n\nIn 1940, the Royal Canadian Air Force took over the Edmonton Arena for wartime use, depriving the Grads of a local space in which to play against international teams. The commencement of World War II disrupted regular basketball competition throughout Europe and beyond, causing the cancellation of tournaments and championships and making it increasingly difficult for sports teams to travel. Additionally, despite Page's continuous efforts to find suitable competition over the years, no team had ever proven themselves consistently good enough to be a clear rival for the Grads. The Grads' dominance in basketball no longer attracted the same attention it had before, and regular game attendance had been shrinking.\n\nIn May 1940, the Grads won their last Canadian championship before disbanding. Dr. James Naismith, the inventor of basketball, called the Grads the \"finest basketball team that ever stepped out on a floor.\"\n\nSome Grads players went on to join other Canadian basketball teams, such as the Comets and the Hedlunds. The Grads continued to stay in touch with each other after disbandment, meeting for reunions every four years. In 1961, the Grads decided to form an official organization to help them stay connected and answer public inquiries about the team. They established the Edmonton Grads Club, beginning to collect and preserve archive material and memorabilia, and the group continued to hold official reunions until 1987. \n\nOn July 23, 2018, the last surviving member of the Grads, Kay MacBeth, died at the age of 96.\n\nPage encouraged his players to \"play basketball, think basketball, and dream basketball.\" He put firm emphasis on the moral behavior of his team, insisting that the Grads strive for a clean game at all times. During road trips, Page enforced a curfew, and players were discouraged from drinking or smoking. He was described by his players as \"a nice man and a wonderful gentleman\". \n\nAfter the team disbanded in 1940, Page was subsequently elected to the Alberta legislature, where he served as a politician until 1959. In late 1959, at the age of 72, Page became lieutenant-governor of Alberta. He held the position until 1966. Page died in 1973, due to complications of pneumonia.\n\nOfficial records have traditionally stated that the Grads played a total of 522 official games between 1915 and 1940, with 502 wins and 20 losses. This gives the team an overall win-loss percentage of 96.2%.\n\nBiographer M. Ann Hall has suggested that this total number of games played (522) may be incorrect, partially because official record-keeping of the Grads' games only began to be taken seriously after their national championship win in 1922. Based on her research, Hall proposes that the Grads played a total of 412 games, with 392 wins and 20 losses. This approach would affect the team's winning percentage only slightly (95.1%).\n\nAs the most successful women's basketball team of the early 20th century, the Edmonton Grads made news headlines across North America and as far away as Hong Kong and the Philippines. Their success had a strong impact on public attitudes towards female athletes, making it more socially acceptable for women to play sports. The Grads National Basketball Championship in 1932 was essential to the Edmonton Rustlers women's hockey team, helping them gain support to travel east and play the Preston Rivulettes for the national hockey title.\n\nWhen the Canadian Press polled sportscasters and sports editors across the country in 1950, the Grads were voted Canada's greatest basketball team of the first half of the 20th century. In 1976 the Grads' success was designated a National Historic Event. Two years later, Parks Canada dedicated a plaque in the team's honor. In 1983, the Canada Basketball Hall of Fame inducted the entire team roster of 38 players. In 1987, the National Film Board released a documentary about the team entitled \"Shooting Stars\". In the late 1980's, the city of Edmonton established Edmonton Grads Park in Westmount, installing a permanent historical display. \n\nIn 2010, the Women's Basketball Hall of Fame in Knoxville, Tennessee, commemorated the Grads with an honorary plaque. In 2014, Canada Basketball launched its first Edmonton Grads International Classic event, named in honour of the Grads. Taking place every two years, this event has pitted the Canada women's national basketball team against teams from Brazil, China and Turkey. A non-profit organization called the Edmonton Grads Basketball Centre currently operates out of the Saville Centre in Edmonton, where they offer summer basketball programs for girls. In 2015, a mural dedicated to the Grads was unveiled at the Saville Centre, and the board of governors of the Edmonton Grads Basketball Centre announced they would begin awarding an annual Commercial Grads scholarship to members of the University of Alberta Pandas women's basketball team. \n\nThe Grads were inducted into the Canada Sports Hall of Fame in 2017. That same year, Historica Canada released a Heritage Minute clip about the team for International Women's Day.\n\nOn November 9, 2019, the Grads were featured in a Google Doodle celebrating the team.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2292105", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292105", "title": "Shōwa financial crisis", "text": "Shōwa financial crisis\n\nThe was a financial panic in 1927, during the first year of the reign of Emperor Hirohito of Japan, and was a foretaste of the Great Depression. It brought down the government of Prime Minister Wakatsuki Reijirō and led to the domination of the \"zaibatsu\" over the Japanese banking industry.\n\nThe Shōwa Financial Crisis occurred after the post–World War I business boom in Japan. Many companies invested heavily in increased production capacity in what proved to be an economic bubble. The post-1920 economic slowdown and the Great Kantō earthquake of 1923 caused an economic depression, which led to the failures of many businesses. The government intervened through the Bank of Japan by issuing discounted \"earthquake bonds\" to overextended banks. In January 1927, when the government proposed to redeem these bonds, rumor spread that the banks holding these bonds would go bankrupt. In the ensuing bank run, 37 banks throughout Japan (including the Bank of Taiwan), and the second-tier \"zaibatsu\" Suzuki Shoten, went under. Prime Minister Wakatsuki attempted to have an emergency decree issued to allow the Bank of Japan to extend emergency loans to save these banks, but his request was denied by the Privy Council and he was forced to resign.\n\nWakatsuki was succeeded by Prime Minister Tanaka Giichi, who managed to control the situation with a three-week bank holiday and the issuance of emergency loans; however, as a result of the collapse of many smaller banks, the large financial branches of the five great \"zaibatsu\" houses were able to dominate Japanese finances until the end of World War II.\n\n"}
{"id": "2292107", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292107", "title": "Joe Connelly (writer)", "text": "Joe Connelly (writer)\n\nJoe Connelly is an American writer. Connelly is best known for his first novel, \"Bringing Out the Dead\", which was made into an eponymous film.\n\nConnelly grew up in a working-class family in Warwick, New York. He dropped out of Colgate University and, before publishing his first novel, worked as a paramedic at St. Clare's Hospital in Hell's Kitchen, New York City, for nine years. He wrote in his spare time over that period, in a small flat in the Upper West Side and while living in Ireland and travelling in Eastern Europe for a considerable period. During this period Connelly was encouraged by a creative writing professor at Columbia University.\n\n\"Bringing Out the Dead\" (1998) is autobiographical in nature and follows the story of a paranoid, hollow-eyed paramedic who works the graveyard shift in Hell's Kitchen, the barrio bounding the phantasmagoria of Times Square. Having seen so much human suffering on the job, the main character of the book, Frank, has turned emotionally into himself, despondent to the point of becoming a drunk, his life a living hell.\n\n\"Bringing Out the Dead\" was an immediate bestseller on publication. It was soon optioned for $100,000 and eventually made its way to production as a major motion picture of the same name in 1999. \"Bringing Out the Dead\" was directed by Martin Scorsese and the screenplay was adapted by Paul Schrader. Though the film was a critical success, it fell short of box office expectations.\nHis second novel, \"Crumbtown\" (2003), didn't sell as well as the first. Although the book's characters were the trademark down-and-out personalities of Connelly's debut novel, he was criticized for relying on well-trodden clichés.\n"}
{"id": "2292109", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292109", "title": "United States v England (1950 FIFA World Cup)", "text": "United States v England (1950 FIFA World Cup)\n\nThe United States defeated England 1–0 on 29 June 1950, in a group match of the 1950 FIFA World Cup at Estádio Independência in Belo Horizonte, Minas Gerais. The result is notable as one of the biggest upsets in the tournament's history.\n\nBefore the game, England were heavy favorites against a hastily-assembled U.S. team, which was composed of part-time players. The game's only goal was scored by Haitian-born U.S. center forward Joe Gaetjens. This game and the U.S. team were profiled by author Geoffrey Douglas in his book \"The Game of Their Lives\", which was made into a film of the same name (later renamed \"The Miracle Match\").\n\nThis was England's World Cup debut, the Football Association having boycotted the previous three tournaments owing to a dispute with FIFA over payments made to amateur players, which had been resolved four years earlier. England and the United States were both drawn in Group 2, along with Spain and Chile: under the rules of the competition only the group winner from this four-nation round-robin would progress to the final stage. Each team had played one previous match in the group, England having beaten Chile 2–0 and the United States losing 3–1 to Spain.\n\nAt the time, the English had a reputation as the \"Kings of Football\", with a post-war record of 23 wins, 4 losses, and 3 ties. They had beaten the Italians 4–0 and the Portuguese 10–0 in Lisbon two weeks before that. Conversely, the Americans, despite having finished third in the inaugural 1930 World Cup, had lost their last seven international matches (including the 1934 World Cup and 1948 Summer Olympics) by the combined score of 45–2, including heavy losses to Italy (7–1), Norway (11–0) and Northern Ireland (5–0). The odds were 3–1 the English would win the Cup, and 500–1 for the U.S. The people from Belo Horizonte were eager to watch the English team, with 10,000 tickets sold along with 3,000 distributed to associates of , then-owners of the newly inaugurated Estádio Independência.\n\nEngland had Stanley Matthews available, who was widely considered one of the best players in the world at the time, but he had not played with the English team in the three international matches before the World Cup (in fact, he had joined the team late, having been touring Canada as part of another group of English internationals). As such, the selection committee (consisting entirely of Arthur Drewry, then president of The Football League in England and later the president of FIFA) opted to stay with the team that had just defeated Chile. Matthews would be saved for later, supposedly more difficult, opponents. As there were no substitutes allowed in those days, Matthews watched the game with the other reserves. Incidentally, the England team which toured Canada beat the United States team preparing for the World Cup 1–0 at the Triborough Stadium in New York City on 19 June, 10 days before the World Cup match, courtesy of a Johnny Hancocks goal.\n\nThe American team consisted of semi-professional players, most of whom had other jobs to support their families. Walter Bahr was a high school teacher, Frank Borghi drove a hearse for his uncle's funeral home and others worked as letter carriers or dishwashers. One player, Ben McLaughlin, had to withdraw from the tournament because he could not get time off work. The team had also been hastily assembled, and had only been able to train together once, and that was the day before they left for Brazil, which happened to be against the touring English team featuring Matthews. (Matthews did not play in that game, as he was injured.) Three players—Joe Maca, Ed McIlvenny, and Joe Gaetjens, none of whom was a U.S. citizen—had been added to the roster just before that game. \"We have no chance,\" recently appointed coach Bill Jeffrey told the press; he also declared his players \"sheep ready to be slaughtered\". The English \"Daily Express\" newspaper wrote: \"It would be fair to give the U.S. three goals of a start.\"\n\nAlthough Walter Bahr regularly served as captain for the United States, Ed McIlvenny was selected for the role for this particular match \"because he was British\". England won the toss and elected to kick off. Within ninety seconds, Stanley Mortensen sent a cross from the left wing to Roy Bentley, who let off a shot that was barely pushed aside by U.S. goalkeeper Frank Borghi. By the 12th minute, England had six clear shots on goal but could not convert, with two shots hitting the post, one just going over the top, and another brilliantly saved by Borghi.\n\nThe U.S. struggled to move to the offense, and finally managed a shot on goal in the 25th minute, which was blocked by English goalkeeper Bert Williams. The English counterattacked with three successive clear shots at the goal in minutes 30, 31, and 32, but failed to score. Mortensen twice went over the crossbar, and Tom Finney's header to the top corner was tipped away by Borghi.\n\nIn the 37th minute, Bahr took a long shot from 25 yards out, but as Williams moved to his right to intercept, Gaetjens dived headlong near the penalty spot, and grazed the ball enough to put it to the left of the English goalkeeper, whose momentum prevented him from changing direction, and into the back of the net. The crowd exploded as the U.S. improbably led 1–0. As the half drew to a close, Finney had a chance to equalize, but the whistle blew before he could shoot.\n\nThe crowd, initially 10,000, increased as Brazilian locals heard radio coverage of the match. The spectators were mostly supporting the underdog Americans, cheering with Borghi's saves and the unsuccessful English attacks. According to Bahr, \"The overwhelming majority was Brazilians, but they rooted for us the entire time. We didn't realize why until after. They [were] hoping we would beat England and that Brazil would not have to play England in the final game.\" Some locals even jumped a short wall to enter the stadium through the playing field.\n\nThe U.S. played with renewed confidence as the second half opened, creating another scoring opportunity in the 54th minute. In the 59th minute England was awarded a direct free kick but Mortensen's shot was well saved by Borghi. But England began threatening again, and it was fifteen minutes before the Americans were able to get another shot. With eight minutes left, Charlie Colombo brought down Mortensen with an illegal tackle at the edge of the penalty area. England pleaded for a penalty kick, but the referee ruled it was outside the box. From Alf Ramsey's resulting free kick, Jimmy Mullen headed the ball for what he thought was a goal, but Borghi tipped it away at the last instant, and despite the protests of the English players, the referee ruled that the ball had not crossed the line and thus there was no goal. England did not threaten again, but the U.S. had one final chance in the 85th minute: Frank \"Peewee\" Wallace drew Williams out of position and fired a shot at the empty net, only to be denied by a sliding goal line clearance by Ramsey.\n\nEven after this loss, England could have kept their chances alive by winning their final pool match against Spain, a result which would have forced a play-off for the right to progress to the final stage of the competition. However, they were unable to do this, losing 1–0, and finishing the First Round with a record of 1–0–2. The U.S. also lost their next match 5–2, versus Chile, ending their 1950 World Cup run with a First Round record of 1–0–2. They would not qualify for the World Cup again until 1990, after which they began a streak of seven consecutive World Cup appearances (this streak ended when they failed to qualify for the 2018 tournament). Spain advanced to the four-team Final Round, finishing fourth. Uruguay won the 1950 World Cup.\n\nJohn Souza, the U.S. inside right forward, was selected to the World Cup All-Star team by the Brazilian sports newspaper \"Mundo Esportivo\", and remained the only U.S. player selected to a World Cup All-Star team until Claudio Reyna in 2002.\n\nNewspaper headlines in most World Cup nations trumpeted the shocking upset, except ironically in the United States and England. There was only one U.S. journalist at the World Cup: Dent McSkimming of the \"St. Louis Post-Dispatch\"; he could not persuade the newspaper to pay for the trip, and had taken time off work to cover the event. McSkimming's report of the match was one of the few to appear in a major U.S. newspaper; some other journals carried agency reports of the match.\n\nIn England, newspapers at the time were generally small, and had only a few pages devoted to sports. Because the English cricket team happened to suffer their first-ever home defeat to the West Indies the very same day, that was the major story in many publications. The team's performance was nonetheless excoriated, with headlines such as \"England Caned At Soccer Too\" [i.e. in addition to cricket], and \"The Last Straw -- U.S. Beat England In World Cup\". Many newspapers repeated Arthur Drewry's statement that the defeat was \"unbelievable\".\n\nLegend has it that in publications that did report the World Cup match, so unexpected was the result that it was presumed that the 1–0 scoreline was a typing error and so it was reported that England had won on a scoreline of 10–0 or 10–1. However, historical newspapers online at The British Newspaper Archive show that the story is a myth. Afterwards, a number of books and newspapers in England suggested that the U.S. team had arrived \"through Ellis Island\", meaning that the team was made up of imported players. In actuality, eight of the starting eleven were U.S.-born, while the other three, Gaetjens, McIlvenny, and Maca, were not U.S. citizens, but had declared their intentions to gain citizenship (only Maca ultimately became a U.S. citizen in 1957), and according to the rules of the United States Soccer Federation at the time, were allowed to play. The U.S. was cleared of any wrongdoing by FIFA in a hearing on 2 December 1950. Of the eight U.S.-born starters, five were from St. Louis, Missouri.\n\nEngland's blue uniform, which had made its debut in this match, was never worn again. Walter Bahr erroneously stated that England has never had a blue uniform since then, but a blue road uniform was worn again in 1959 during a 1–4 loss to Peru. The 1950 loss was the first of several shock losses for the English team. In 1953, they were defeated 6–3 by the \"Magical Magyars\" of Hungary and in 1954, they lost again to Hungary 7–1. The result of these losses was a reorganization of English football that culminated in England winning the 1966 World Cup on home soil.\n\nThere was little attention given to the match in the U.S. at the time, and that continued to be the case until the 1994 World Cup, which was hosted in the U.S., although Pariani, an Italian American, was interviewed by the Italian press in 1990 when Italy and England played against each other for third place. Geoffrey Douglas, a professor of English at the University of Massachusetts Amherst, was inspired by news articles in the build-up to the 1994 tournament, and wrote a book about the 1950 match, having interviewed the five surviving members of the U.S. team. Entitled \"The Game of Their Lives\", in 2005 it was made into a film of the same name directed by David Anspaugh. Since then, the game has become known as \"The Miracle Match\", in reference to the Miracle on Ice from the 1980 Winter Olympics, in which the U.S. ice hockey team defeated the heavily favored Soviet Union. The United States and England did not play another World Cup match against each other until a first-round encounter in the 2010 FIFA World Cup, which ended in a 1–1 draw.\n"}
{"id": "2292110", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292110", "title": "Jim Les", "text": "Jim Les\n\nJames Allen Les (born August 18, 1963) is an American basketball coach and former player who is the current head coach of the UC Davis Aggies men's basketball team. A former point guard, he was picked in the third round (70th pick overall) of the 1986 NBA Draft out of Bradley University.\n\nIn 2011, he was hired as the head coach of the UC Davis Aggies men's basketball team.\n\nLes began his collegiate basketball career playing at Cleveland State University, but transferred after the 1981–82 season to Bradley. While attending Bradley University he was a member of the Accounting Student Association and the Delta Upsilon fraternity. When he left college in 1986, he had compiled the second most assists in NCAA history in a combined playing career with Cleveland State and Bradley.\n\nA 5'11\" point guard, Les was the 70th overall pick in the 1986 NBA Draft, selected in the third round by the Atlanta Hawks. However, the Hawks waived Les in July 1986. Two months later, Les signed with the Philadelphia 76ers but was waived in December without playing a game. Les re-signed with the 76ers on July 1, 1987 but was waived on November 3 before the regular season.\n\nLes later signed with the Rochester Flyers of the Continental Basketball Association (CBA) and played 12 games from 1987 to 1988. In the summer of 1988, Les signed with the Chicago Express of the World Basketball League (WBL). Les was a 1988 All-WBL selection and led the league in three-point field goal percentage in 1988 with 46.7%. The Chicago Express were runners-up in the WBL championship.\n\nLes signed with the NBA's Milwaukee Bucks on October 19, 1988 but was waived the next day. He then signed with the Utah Jazz and made his NBA debut on November 4, 1988. Les played all 82 games of the season. Les averaged 9.5 minutes, 1.7 points, 1.1 rebounds, and 2.6 assists per game. After playing one game in the beginning of the season, Les was waived by the Jazz on November 6, 1989. Les then joined the Santa Barbara Islanders of the CBA and averaged 14.6 points and 9.8 assists a game. Les returned to the NBA on February 6, 1990 with the Los Angeles Clippers and was waived on February 27 after playing 6 games.\n\nIn the summer of 1990, Les signed with the WBL's Saskatchewan Storm. On July 16, Les scored 38 points and had 17 assists to rally the Storm to a 140-136 win over the Calgary 88s after trailing by 16 at halftime. Les made 6 of 7 three-point attempts.\n\nLes signed with the NBA's Charlotte Hornets on August 29, 1990 but was waived before the regular season on October 23, 1990. On December 31, Les signed with the Sacramento Kings. Following two ten-day contracts, Les signed with the Kings for the rest of the season on January 20, 1991. With the Kings that season, Les reached career highs in scoring average (7.2 PPG), assists (5.4 APG), steals (1.04 SPG) and field goal percentage (.444), while also leading the league in three-point field goal percentage (.461). The following year, he was runner-up to Craig Hodges in the AT&T Long Distance Shootout contest. Les played over 200 games for the Kings over 4 seasons before the team waived him on January 9, 1994.\n\nLes signed with the Omaha Racers (formerly the Rochester Flyers) of the CBA after leaving the Kings. With the Racers, Les was both a player and assistant coach. With 20.2 points per game, Les was the Racers' leading scorer in the playoffs, and the Racers advanced to the 1994 CBA Finals.\n\nOn August 9, 1994, Les signed with the NBA's Atlanta Hawks. In 24 games, Les averaged 2.1 points, 1.1 rebounds, and 1.8 assists. In October 1995, Les signed with CB Salamanca of the Spanish Liga ACB and was waived in December. Les averaged 13.4 points, 3.4 rebounds, and 4.7 assists in 7 games with Salamanca.\n\nFollowing his NBA career, Les was an assistant coach for the WNBA's Sacramento Monarchs from 1999 to 2001. Les was on the staff of Monarchs head coach Sonny Allen in 1999 and 2000 and Maura McHugh in 2001. In all three seasons with Les as an assistant coach, the Monarchs made the WNBA Playoffs and advanced to the 2001 WNBA Conference Finals.\n\nIn 2002, he returned to his alma mater Bradley University as head coach, where he led Bradley to an improved record in each of his first two seasons. The Bradley Braves advanced to the Sweet Sixteen in the NCAA tournament in 2006. The following year the Braves exceeded expectations to make it to the NIT. In 2008, the Braves participated in their third consecutive postseason tournament when they were invited to the first annual College Basketball Invitational tournament. The Braves advanced to the CBI finals, defeating Cincinnati, Ohio University and Virginia, while losing two games to one to Tulsa in the CBI championship round.\n\nIn 2009, the Braves participated in their fourth consecutive postseason tournament when they were invited to the first annual CollegeInsider.com Postseason Tournament. The Braves beat Austin Peay 81–74 in the first round of the tournament, and then went on to beat Oakland University 76–75 on a miracle 70-foot shot by Chris Roberts at the buzzer to earn Les his fourth consecutive 20-win season. The Braves advanced to the CIT finals with a win over Pacific, while losing to Old Dominion 66-62 in the CIT championship game. The Bradley Braves finished the 2009–10 season in fifth place at 9-9 in the Missouri Valley Conference. Bradley finished the 2010–11 season tied for ninth place at 4–14 in the Missouri Valley Conference.\n\nProfessional basketball players who played at Bradley under Les include Zach Andrews, Danny Granger, and Patrick O'Bryant.\n\nLes was relieved of his duties on March 6, 2011 after the Braves finished a disappointing 12–20 campaign.\n\nJim Les's older brother Tom played for the Bradley Braves from 1972 to 1975 and is the school's all-time assists leader. Their father, Richard Les died of Parkinson's disease in 2011. Jim Les's son Tyler has played for the UC Davis men's basketball team under his father since his sophomore season of 2011–12. His daughter, Amber Les, graduated from UC Santa Barbara and now attends Pepperdine School of Law.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2292118", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292118", "title": "Didier of Cahors", "text": "Didier of Cahors\n\nSaint Didier, also known as Desiderius (c. 580 – November 15, traditionally 655), was a Merovingian-era royal official of aristocratic Gallo-Roman extraction.\n\nHe succeeded his own brother, Rusticus of Cahors, as bishop of Cahors and governed the diocese, which flourished under his care, from 630 to 655. Didier's career, like that of his brothers, is an example of a church and a monastic system controlled by the ruling, landholding class that was closely linked to the Merovingian monarchy. \"This was no innovation of this period, but rather represented a continuation of a state of affairs which had existed since late Roman and early Merovingian times\".\n\nBorn in the oppidum of Albi about the year 580, to a father with the expressly Christian name of Salvius and a literate mother with the Frankish name Herchenfreda, Desiderius had two brothers, named Rusticus and Syagrius. The three boys were sent to the court of the Frankish king Clotaire II (584–629; from 613 sole sovereign), and with other boys of noble family received an excellent education at the Merovingian court-school. Rusticus assumed holy orders at an early age and became archdeacon in the town of Rodez before being appointed abbot of the palatine basilica of Clotaire, who at length appointed him bishop of Cahors, in Quercy. The second brother, Syagrius, after long service in the palace household of the Franks and long familiarity with Clotaire, was made comte d’Albi and exercised juridical authority as \"praefectus\" in the city of Marseille.\n\nDesiderius combined a love of letters with a native Gallican eloquence, according to his \"Vita\". While still adolescent he received the dignities of the royal household and turned his studies towards Roman (i.e. canon) law, with the result that a Roman gravity of demeanor tempered the gallic richness and brilliance of his discourse. Before long he was appointed treasurer to the king, an office that he retained under the new king, Dagobert I (629–639), whose confidant he was. After the death of Syagrius (629), he is said to have obtained also the prefectship of Marseilles, but this is not certain.\n\nFaithful to the admonitions of his pious mother, three of whose letters to him are mentioned in his \"Vita\", Desiderius led at court the serious holy life of a monk, and administered his office with great fidelity. While at court he made the acquaintance of St. Arnoux, St Ouen, and St Eloi.\n\nIn 630 his brother Rusticus, the Bishop of Cahors, was killed during a riot, whereupon the clergy and people of that city requested from the king Desiderius as his successor. By a letter of April 8, 630, Dagobert made known his consent, and Desiderius was consecrated Bishop of Cahors. With the other bishops of his time, many of them educated with him at the royal court, he maintained an active correspondence. He was a zealous promoter of monastic life and founded a monastery in the vicinity of Cahors, the church of which was dedicated to St. Amantius; later on the convent was called after its founder St Géry (i.e. Dierius, from Desiderius). He directed also a convent of women, as we see from a letter written by him to the Abbess Aspasia. Under him and with his support was likewise founded in his diocese the monastery of St. Peter of Moissac. Desiderius built three large basilicas in and near Cahors (St Maria, St Peter and St Julian) and an oratory in honor of St Martin. The finished style of his building was notable, not of vernacular materials of wood, wattle and thatch, but\nin the manner of the ancients out of squared and hewn stones, not indeed in our Gallican fashion, but just as a whole circuit of ancient walls is wont to be built; thus from the foundations to the topmost pinnacle he completed the work with squared stones' (quoted in Greenhalgh) He also built an aqueduct to serve Cahors, and rebuilt the walls and towers (\"castella\") that protected the city, as well as the Castrum Mercurio in Cahors itself. His actions show how much the bishop acted for the public good with the authority of a count or of a \"patricius\". Desiderius persuaded the nobles of his diocese to endow churches and monasteries. \n\nBy his testament (649–650) he endowed the cathedral, the churches, and the monasteries of his episcopal city with all his estates. While resident on his estates in the district of Albi he fell ill and died at his villa of Wistrilingo. His body was carried to Cahors and interred in the church of St Amantius.\n\nA \"Vita\" of Desiderius has been composed around the late 8th century by an anonymous author, possibly a monk from Saint-Géry near Cahors, written on the basis of older documents. Appended to it is a collection of letters, some composed by himself and others addressed to him, as well as an account of miracles that took place at his tomb. \n\nHis feast is celebrated on 15 November.\n\nAnthyme Saint-Paul, in his Histoire monumentale de la France, nominated Didier as “\"le dernier des Romains\"” because of his building activities as bishop. Didier's lifelong correspondence with other aristocrats that he befriended in his youth also represents the very end of ancient epistolography dating back to the Hellenistic period. Didier was fully educated in literary studies, grammar and Roman laws. His small literary circle clearly attempted to preserve Roman heritage and traditions going back to Vergil and Homer, and the ability to speak the language of the past was valued. But Didier and his circle were remarkably few in number, indicating that only a very few individuals were participating in 7th century literary society. His letter collection marks the end of an unbroken chain of not only literary style but also cultural and social connection that can be traced back to Cicero and before. Subsequent surviving letter collections from the late Merovingian and Carolingian periods lack a direct connection to any ancient models.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2292123", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292123", "title": "Indiana State Road 26", "text": "Indiana State Road 26\n\nState Road 26 (IN 26 or SR 26) is an east–west discontinuous state road in the central part of the US state of Indiana. The western end of the western segment is at the Illinois border, where it continues as Illinois Route 9. The highway passes through rural areas of Warren and Tippecanoe counties, before ending near West Lafayette. The eastern segment begins at an interchange with Interstate 65 (I-65) and heads east passing through the cities of Kokomo, Hartford City, and Portland, before ending at the Ohio border, where it continues east as Ohio State Route 119. The road covers a distance of about , passing through mostly rural areas.\n\nThe originally designated road along modern SR 26 was SR 29, running between Lafayette and US 31, with SR 26 being routed between Bloomington and Madison. In the mid-1920s the state of Indiana renumber its state road system and the SR 26 designated was moved to its contemporary alignment. During the early 1930s the route was several segment of SR 26 was added to the state system. The last major addition happen in the late 1930s between SR 9 and Hartford City. The entire roadway was paved in the 1960s. In December 2013, the Indiana Department of Transportation (INDOT) relinquished the road through West Lafayette and Lafayette to the two cities.\n\nSR 26 runs for as an almost entirely east–west undivided surface highway in central Indiana. Most of the highway is two-lane undivided rural highway. There is a section east of Lafayette that is a four-lane highway. The road exists in two segments with the first running between the Illinois border, near the town of Ambia, and near West Lafayette. The second segment is routed between Lafayette and the Ohio border.\n\nSR 26 is a two-lane highway that connects with Illinois Route 9 and SR 352 at the Illinois state line in western Warren County. The road heads east passing through agricultural land, before turning south concurrent with U.S. Route 41 (US 41). The concurrency heads southeast, before SR 26 leaves the concurrency heading east towards Lafayette. The road makes a few curves, but the roadway stays generally east–west in direction. North of Pine Village SR 26 joins SR 55. The concurrency enters town on Main Street. At the intersection of Main Street and Lafayette Street, SR 26 turns east onto Lafayette Street, while SR 55 continues south on Main Street. The street passes some businesses before reaching the east side of town. The road enters rural Warren County before entering rural Tippecanoe County. The highway turns towards the southwest before passing by many houses on the west edge of West Lafayette. SR 26 passes north of Purdue University Forestry and Natural Resources Farm, before an intersection with US 52/US 231. At this intersection the SR 26 designation ends, but the roadway continues east as State Street, passing through West Lafayette and heading towards Lafayette.\n\nThe eastern segment of SR 26 begins, as a continuation of South Street, at an interchange with I-65 on the east side of Lafayette. The road heads east as a four-lane highway, passing through both commercial and residential properties. As the road continues east it becomes a two-lane road, with some curves, and passes through farmland. The highway enters rural Clinton County, before entering Rossville. In Rossville SR 26 is concurrent with Main Street and passes through a business district. The business district becomes houses as the street heads east. The road enters the downtown area of Rossville passing through an intersection with Plank Street (US 421/SR 39). East of Plank Street, SR 26 passes more houses before leaving Rossville. East of Rossville, SR 26 passes through agricultural land, heading due east towards Kokomo. In rural Clinton County SR 26 has an intersection with SR 75, before passing through Sedalia and Geetingsville. The road enters Middlefork and has an intersection with SR 29. East of Middlefork the highway enters Howard County.\nIn Howard County the road enters Russiaville, passing through town on Main Street. While in Russiaville, Main Street passes through commercial and residential properties. SR 26 leaves Russiaville and enters rural Howard County, passing through mostly farmland. The road enters Kokomo, passing through the Indian Heights neighborhood. While in Indian Heights the road passes through an intersection with SR 931. East of SR 931, SR 26 leaves Kokomo and passes through the community of Oakford. After passing through Oakford, SR 26 has an interchange with US 31, before passing through rural Howard County, having intersections with SR 19 and SR 213.\n\nThe road leaves Howard County and enters Grant County and passes through an intersection with SR 13, in Point Isabel. East of Point Isabel SR 26 has an intersection with SR 37 and SR 9, before entering Fairmount. In Fairmount SR 26 is routed along Eighth Street and passes through residential part of town. Before leaving town the street has an at-grade crossing with a Norfolk Southern railroad track. East of Fairmount SR 26 has an interchange with I-69, before crossing over the Mississinewa River. After the river SR 26 turns north at a four-way intersection with County Road 900 South and County Road 950 East, formerly SR 221. SR 26 heads north for about towards the town of Upland, before turning east at a four-way intersection with SR 22 and County Road 700 South, southeast of Taylor University. The road then leaves Grant County and enters Blackford County.\nSR 26 then enters Hartford City on Water Street before curving onto Washington Street, prior to an intersection with SR 3. East of SR 3, Washington Street enters the Hartford City Courthouse Square Historic District and passes on the south side of the Blackford County Courthouse. SR 26 leaves the historic district and turns south on Mill Street for one block, before turning east onto Water Street and crossing a Norfolk Southern Railroad track. The highway leaves Hartford City and enters rural Blackford County, before coming to an intersection with the north end of SR 167 at the Blackford–Jay county line. SR 26 joins SR 1 for a short distance heading south, before SR 26 turns east towards Portland. The road joins SR 67 before entering Portland. The two state roads enter Portland on Votaw Street, passing through mostly commercial lots. At US 27 (Meridian Street) SR 67 turns north concurrent with US 27, while SR 26 turns south concurrent with US 27. Meridian Street heads south passing through the Portland Commercial Historic District, about a block east of the Jay County Courthouse. SR 26 turns east on Water Street, while US 27 continues south across the Salamonie River. Water Street leaves the historic district and passes through a residential part of town, before leaving Portland. As the road leaves Portland it crosses over the Salamonie River. East of Portland SR 26 parallels the Salamonie River, before the highway crosses over the river again. The road passes through agricultural land, before the Ohio state lines the road curves towards the southeast. SR 26 ends at the Ohio–Indiana border, just outside of Fort Recovery, the roadway continues east into Ohio as State Route 119.\n\nSR 26 was originally designated between Bloomington and Madison along approximately the modern alignment of SR 46 and SR 7. The highway ran between SR 22 in Bloomington and SR 40 in Madison, passing through Columbus. When the Indiana State Highway Commission renumber the state road system in 1926 in coordination with the creation of the United States Numbered Highway System, the SR 26 designated was moved north to its modern alignment.\n\nThe modern SR 26 was designated on October 1, 1926 on a route that ran between Lafayette and Oakford, this route was previously known as SR 29. The modern route of SR 26 between the Indiana–Illinois state line and US 41 was added between 1927 and 1928, as SR 22. During 1930 a state road was proposed between US 41 and Lafayette and between US 31 and SR 9. Also at this time a state road was proposed from Upland east to the Ohio–Indiana state line. Between late 1930 and early 1932 the highway commission added SR 26 between US 31 and SR 9 to the state road system and the SR 22 designation west of US 41 was changed to SR 26. During this time frame SR 26 was added to the state road system between Hartford City and SR 67 and the modern route of SR 26 between the modern eastern end of SR 22 and Hartford City became part of SR 22. During 1932 the proposed route between Portland and the Ohio–Indiana state line was commissioned as part of SR 26 and the small north–south segment of modern SR 26, southeast of Upland, was commissioned as part of SR 221. SR 26 proposed to be extended east from SR 9 to SR 221 between 1936 and 1937. The road was extended from SR 9 to Hartford City between late 1938 and early 1939. The entire road was paved between 1966 and 1967.\n\nSR 26 formerly passed through the campus of Purdue University in West Lafayette, where it was concurrent with State Street, and through Lafayette as South Street and Columbia Street. The segment of roadway between the US 231 junction in the west and Interstate 65 interchange in the east were relinquished to the cities of West Lafayette and Lafayette in December 2013; SR 26 is now discontinuous.\n"}
{"id": "2292127", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292127", "title": "New Ulster Province", "text": "New Ulster Province\n\nNew Ulster was a province of the Colony of New Zealand that existed between 1841 and 1853. It was named after the Irish province of Ulster.\n\nBetween 1841 and 1846, the province included all the North Island north of the Patea River. With the passing of the New Zealand Constitution Act 1846, the province came to include all of the North Island. Like the other province of New Zealand at the time, New Munster Province, New Ulster Province was headed by a Lieutenant-Governor who reported to the Governor of New Zealand.\n\nIn 1852, a new Constitution Act was passed, and the province was divided into Auckland, Wellington and New Plymouth provinces.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2292128", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292128", "title": "Eulonia, Georgia", "text": "Eulonia, Georgia\n\nEulonia is an unincorporated community in McIntosh County in the U.S. state of Georgia. Part of the Brunswick, Georgia Metropolitan Statistical Area, it is in the Low Country between Savannah and Brunswick near Interstate 95.\n\nMany of Eulonia's residents are members of the Gullah ethnic group of African Americans, some of whom also live on nearby Sapelo Island. The McIntosh County Shouters, a Gullah traditional music group, performs regularly at Eulonia's Mt. Calvary Baptist Church.\n\nEulonia and the nearby hamlets of Crescent and Shellman Bluff are home to restaurants: The Buccaneer Club (open from the 1950s until 2016), Sapelo Station, and Hunter's Cafe (restaurants), and the sites of River Oaks Condos, Pleasure Point, and Stonefield neighborhoods. Also at Shellman Bluff are several marinas, which include Fisherman's Lodge and Shellman Bluff Marina.\n\nThe Shellman Bluff area is the larger attraction of McIntosh County, with many residents being \"weekend warriors\". It is the home of the Sapelo Saltwater Fishing Club, and the annual Sapelo Open Kingfish Tournament. The Sapelo River runs through Eulonia and has its source just inland of US Highway 17. Between Eulonia and Darien, with access by Georgia State Route 99, lies Meridian, Georgia, site of the embarkation point for the ferry to Sapelo Island.\n\nLocal celebrations include the Annual St. Patrick's Day Parade at Shellman Bluff, and the Jack's Bluff Yacht Club Annual Fishing Tournament (amateurs only).\n"}
{"id": "2292129", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292129", "title": "Democratic principle", "text": "Democratic principle\n\nIn the context of General Relativity, the democratic principle allows quick, order-of-magnitude calculations for the strength of gravitomagnetic effects such as frame-dragging. While the principle is fairly intuitive, it does not have a rigorous mathematical definition.\n\n\"John Wheeler (1990) on the practical application of Mach's principle to experiment (pp.232-233):\"\n\nAccording to the general principle of relativity, rotation is a \"relative\" property, and a state of motion that a satellite senses as being \"absolutely non-rotating\" is a \"local\" state, dictated partly by the relative rotation of the background stars, but also partly by the rotation of the body that the satellite orbits. Applying the democratic principle, we can calculate the influence of these two rotations on the satellite by calculating the relative contributions of these two collections of massenergy to the background gravitational field strength at the satellite's location, and then weighting their contributions on the satellite's \"sense of rotation\" accordingly.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2292161", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292161", "title": "Strawberry Mansion, Philadelphia", "text": "Strawberry Mansion, Philadelphia\n\nStrawberry Mansion is a neighborhood in the United States city of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, located east of Fairmount Park in North Philadelphia. The neighborhood is bounded by 33rd Street to the west, 29th Street to the east, Lehigh Avenue to the north, and Oxford Street to the south. As of the 2000 census, the neighborhood had a population of 22,562. It is often associated with the historic house of the same name, Historic Strawberry Mansion, located adjacent to the neighborhood and generally thought to be the source of the community's name.\n\nIn 2005, the 19121 zip code, which contains Strawberry Mansion, had a median home sale price of $47,900. This was an 85% increase, the largest of any zip code in Philadelphia, from the 2004 median sale price.\n\nFormerly known as Summerville, the neighborhood takes its name from a house known as Strawberry Mansion, at one time housing a restaurant known for strawberries and cream. Strawberry Mansion was home to a number of Philadelphia's wealthiest families in the 19th Century. In 1880, The average home price was higher than 85% of the houses in Philadelphia.\n\nThe Jewish community started in the late 1890s, as the community migrated from Northern Liberties and Fairmount. After the turn of the century, many Jews living in South Philadelphia moved to then greener neighborhoods of the city. The first synagogue in the neighborhood was Beth Israel, which moved in 1909 from Eighth and Jefferson to 32nd and Montgomery. In 1913, a real estate broker placed an ad in the \"Philadelphia Jewish Herald\" encouraging Jews to leave South Philadelphia's Jewish quarter and move to the “fresh air” and “beautiful country landscape” of Strawberry Mansion. At its height, about one-fifth of the Jewish population in the city lived in the enclave between Lehigh and Oxford streets, and 29th and 33rd streets. The Jews built a community, and eventually left for Oxford Circle, Overbrook Park, and West Oak Lane-Mt. Airy. There were at least 21 synagogues in the neighborhood, built for the most part in the first quarter of the 20th century. By 2015, six of the buildings remained and had been transformed into churches.\n\nThe 1950s and 1960s brought an economic decline and urban decay. In 2000, the neighborhood had the lowest average home price in the city. Modern Strawberry Mansion has acquired a reputation as one of the most dangerous areas of Philadelphia. The neighborhood is quite large in area and in population and has been difficult to police or maintain with historically inadequate city funding. However, as of 2005, the southern and western boundaries of Strawberry Mansion have shown signs of gentrification. Feeding off the mixed successes of neighbor Brewerytown to the south, artist lofts have been planned in derelict factories. Additionally, property values have risen dramatically on properties abutting Fairmount Park on the western boundary of Strawberry Mansion. A number of stately park-side homes in varying states of disrepair can be found in what was once one of the wealthiest areas in Philadelphia. Many structures have already been completely restored in an area that was ignored for decades, but crime continues to plague the area.\n\nStrawberry Mansion has also been home to horses and urban cowboys for generations. One local group, the Fletcher Street Urban Riding Club, provides activities and support to neighborhood children in the struggling area. A notable mural, \"A Tribute to Urban Horsemen,\" can be viewed from the community garden on Montgomery Avenue near 33rd st.\n\nIn 2015 it was announced that public access would be restored to the perimeter of a fallow basin of the East Park Reservoir in the first phase of a program to expand youth programs within the park. Then-Mayor Michael Nutter was quoted in ceremony, \"What's demonstrated here today is that Strawberry Mansion will become the melting pot of the City of Philadelphia.\" Neighborhood residents eagerly await removal of the chain-link fence and barbed wire. The change is a significant expansion of the park side amenities afforded to neighborhood residents and the city, reflecting the wave of redevelopment in the area and renewed efforts to improve Fairmount Park.\n\nThe community is bounded by Fairmount Park to the west, Lehigh Avenue to the north, Sedgley Avenue and the SEPTA rail tracks to the east, and Cecil B. Moore Avenue to the south. Bordering neighborhoods include Allegheny West to the north, Glenwood and Stanton to the east, and Brewerytown to the south. As of 2010, Strawberry Mansion was 94.3% black or African American, 2.3% white or European American, 1.6% Hispanic, 0.8% Asian, and 1% all other.\n\nThe School District of Philadelphia serves Strawberry Mansion.\n\nStrawberry Mansion High School is in the neighborhood.\n\nThe high school and the area middle school shared a building with a third school, Leslie P. Hill Elementary School, which was a K-8 school, until it was closed in 2013. Many children, prior to the close, attended elementary, junior, and high school without leaving the building. Now the neighborhood school that feeds into SMHS is James G. Blaine at 30th and Berks.\n\nIn 2015, a music recording studio opened at Strawberry Mansion High school financed by popular recording artist Drake.\n\nThe historic Most Precious Blood School is also located in the neighborhood.\n\n\n\nStrawberry Manion ushistory.org\n"}
{"id": "2292165", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292165", "title": "Sataspes", "text": "Sataspes\n\nSataspes was a Persian navigator and cavalry commander whose name is derived from Sat (=100 sad) and Asp (= Horse, Asb). He is also credited with originating the term \"horse latitudes\".\n\nSataspes (who, according to Herodotus, was Xerxes I's cousin by his mother being Darius I's sister) had been condemned to death for kidnapping and raping Megabyzus's daughter. However his mother, Atossa, successfully convinced Xerxes to change the punishment to a more severe one - Sataspes was tasked to circumnavigate Africa. He took an Egyptian ship and crew, sailed through the Pillars of Hercules, and proceeded south for many months, but returned to Egypt without successfully completing his task. He claimed that at the farthest point he reached, he encountered a \"dwarfish race, who wore a dress made from the palm tree\", and that he was forced to return because his ship stopped and would not sail any further. Xerxes did not accept this excuse, and had him put to death. However, it has been suggested that Sataspes could have simply encountered the Benguela Current, which prevented him from sailing any farther.\n\n"}
{"id": "2292167", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292167", "title": "City of Las Vegas (train)", "text": "City of Las Vegas (train)\n\nThe City of Las Vegas was a streamlined passenger train operated by the Union Pacific Railroad between Las Vegas, Nevada and Los Angeles, California. It operated from 1956 to 1968. It was one of several trains to operate with the experimental General Motors \"Aerotrain\", although this experiment was short-lived. After 1961 the train was known as the Las Vegas Holiday Special.\n\nThe Union Pacific introduced the \"City of Las Vegas\" on December 18, 1956. The service initially used General Motors' experimental \"Aerotrain\" trainset, but the Union Pacific ended their lease within a year due to maintenance and performance problems including needing a helper engine to climb Cajon Pass. The train continued with standard streamlined cars in UP's \"Armour Yellow\" paint, leaving Los Angeles in the morning and returning in the evening.\n\nOn September 24, 1961 the name was changed to \"Las Vegas Holiday Special\", when the consist and frequency were reduced. Service ended altogether on June 15, 1968.\n\nThe GM \"Aerotrain\" included nine cars: three 40-seat coaches, a bar-lounge, a \"Chuck Wagon\" buffet, three more 40-seat coaches, a 36-seat coach. The Union Pacific replaced the \"Aerotrain\" with conventional equipment on September 15, 1957. The new eight-car consist included a mail car, two 48-seat coaches, a lunch counter-dinette, a \"Pub\" buffet-lounge, and three more 48-seat coaches. These cars were drawn from a variety of sources. The coaches were built by Pullman-Standard in 1942 for the \"San Francisco Overland Limited\". The lunch-counter dinette was part of a set of four (numbered 4000-4003) built by American Car and Foundry for the \"City of St. Louis\" in 1951. The dinette portion seated 16 while the counter area seated 21 along a -long countertop. The \"Pub\" was originally coach #5201, part of a set of twelve (5200-5211) built by Pullman-Standard for the \"Challenger\" in 1937.\n\n"}
{"id": "2292178", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292178", "title": "Azilises", "text": "Azilises\n\nAzilises (ruled circa 57-35 BCE) was an Indo-Scythian king who ruled in the area of Gandhara.\n\nAzilises issued some joint coins with Azes, where Azes is presented as king on the obverse (ΒΑΣΙΛΕΩΣ ΒΑΣΙΛΕΩΝ ΜΕΓΑΛΟΥ ΑΖΙΛΙΣΟΥ), and Azilises is introduced as king on the obverse in kharoshthi (\"Maharajasa rajarajasa mahatasa Ayilisasa\", \"The great king, the king of kings, the great Azilises\").\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2292179", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292179", "title": "Evergreen Review", "text": "Evergreen Review\n\nThe Evergreen Review is a U.S.-based literary magazine. Its publisher is John Oakes and its editor-in-chief is Dale Peck. The \"Evergreen Review\" was founded by Barney Rosset, publisher of Grove Press. It existed in print from 1957 until 1973, and was re-launched online in 1998, and again in 2017. Its lasting impact can be seen in the March–April 1960 issue, which included work by Albert Camus, Lawrence Ferlinghetti, Bertolt Brecht and LeRoi Jones, as well as Edward Albee's first play, \"The Zoo Story\" (1958). The Camus piece was a reprint of \"Reflections on the Guillotine\", first published in English in the \"Review\" in 1957 and reprinted on this occasion as the magazine's \"contribution to the worldwide debate on the problem of capital punishment and, more specifically, the case of Caryl Whittier Chessman.\"\n\n\"The Evergreen Review\" debuted pivotal works by Samuel Beckett, Jorge Luis Borges, Charles Bukowski, William S. Burroughs, Marguerite Duras, Jean Genet, Allen Ginsberg, Günter Grass, Jack Kerouac, Norman Mailer, Henry Miller, Pablo Neruda, Vladimir Nabokov, Frank O’Hara, Kenzaburō Ōe, Octavio Paz, Harold Pinter, Susan Sontag, Tom Stoppard, Derek Walcott and Malcolm X. United States Supreme Court Justice William O. Douglas wrote a controversial piece for the magazine in 1969. Kerouac and Ginsberg regularly had their writing published in the magazine.\n\nAlthough primarily a literary magazine, \"Evergreen Review\" always contained numerous illustrations. In its early years, these included a small number of cartoons. By the mid-1960s, many illustrations and photographs were of an erotic nature, including a serialized graphic novel, \"The Adventures of Phoebe Zeit-Geist\" by writer Michael O'Donoghue and artist Frank Springer. It was later published as a Grove Press hardcover in 1968 and trade paperback in 1969.\n\nKen Jordan, writing in the introduction to the \"Evergreen Review Reader, 1957–1996\", described the counter-cultural contents and the impact of the publication on readers:\n\nThe original \"Evergreen Review\" ceased publication in 1973, but the magazine was revived in 1998 in an online edition edited by founder Barney Rosset and his wife Astrid Myers. The online version ceased publication in 2013 and was revived in March 2017 with OR Books co-publisher John Oakes as publisher and writer and critic Dale Peck as editor-in-chief.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2292189", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292189", "title": "Peter Harding (RAF officer, born 1933)", "text": "Peter Harding (RAF officer, born 1933)\n\nMarshal of the Royal Air Force Sir Peter Robin Harding, (born 2 December 1933) is a retired Royal Air Force officer who served as a bomber pilot in the 1950s, a helicopter squadron commander in the 1960s and a station commander in the 1970s. He became Chief of the Air Staff in 1988 and served in that role during the Gulf War in 1991. He became Chief of the Defence Staff in December 1992 but resigned after his affair with Lady (Bienvenida) Buck, the wife of Conservative MP Antony Buck, became public.\n\nBorn in Lambeth to Peter Harding and Elizabeth (née Clear), Harding was educated at Chingford High School and commissioned into the Royal Air Force as an acting pilot officer on national service on 3 September 1952 and given a permanent commission in the same rank on 15 October 1952. He was promoted to the substantive rank of pilot officer on 12 August 1953 and posted to No. 12 Squadron flying Canberra bombers in 1954.\n\nPromoted to flying officer on 10 September 1954, Harding became a qualified flying instructor and flight commander at the Royal Air Force College Cranwell in 1957, before being promoted to flight lieutenant on 10 March 1958. In 1960 he was sent to Australia to serve as a pilot with No. 1 Squadron RAAF flying Canberra bombers again. He attended RAF Staff College in 1963 and was promoted to squadron leader on 1 July 1963. In 1964 he started a tour in the Air Secretary's department at the Ministry of Defence. He became Officer Commanding No. 18 Squadron at RAF Gütersloh and then RAF Acklington in 1966, flying the Westland Wessex helicopter and then, having been promoted to wing commander on 1 July 1968, he joined the Defence Policy Staff at the Ministry of Defence in 1970.\n\nAfter attending the National Defence College at Latimer in 1969,\nHarding became Director of Air Staff Briefing in 1971. Promoted to group captain on 1 July 1972, he became Station Commander at RAF Bruggen in July 1974. He was appointed aide-de-camp to The Queen on 1 January 1975. Promoted to air commodore on 1 January 1976, he was then made Director of Defence Policy at the Ministry of Defence in 1976 and Assistant Chief of Staff (Plans and Policy) at SHAPE on 18 July 1978. \n\nHe was promoted to air vice-marshal on 1 January 1979 and appointed a Companion of the Order of the Bath in the 1980 Birthday Honours.\n\nHarding became Air Officer Commanding No.11 Group on 7 January 1981, and Vice-Chief of the Air Staff with the acting rank of air marshal on 28 August 1982. He was advanced to Knight Commander of the Order of the Bath in the 1983 New Year Honours. Promoted to air chief marshal on 1 January 1985, he became Vice Chief of the Defence Staff early that year. Appointed Air Officer Commanding Strike Command on 29 August 1985, he was advanced to Knight Grand Cross of the Order of the Bath in the 1988 New Year Honours. He was made Air Aide-de-Camp to The Queen on 14 November 1988 and became Chief of the Air Staff on the same day. As Chief of the Air Staff he advised the British Government on the deployment of air power during the Gulf War.\n\nPromoted to Marshal of the Royal Air Force on 6 November 1992, Harding became Chief of Defence Staff on 31 December 1992. However he resigned in March 1994 after it was revealed by Max Clifford and the \"News of the World\" that he had an affair with , the wife of Conservative MP Antony Buck. Although Harding was a serving officer rather than a politician, the story was especially embarrassing as it coincided with a string of scandals (known, after John Major's slogan of October 1993, as \"Back to Basics\") associated with members of the Conservative government at that time. Unlike other Marshals of the Royal Air Force who only relinquished their appointments, Harding resigned his commission on 14 June 1994. Consequently, he ceased to be listed in the Air Force List.\n\nAfter leaving the RAF, Harding was deputy Chairman of GEC-Marconi from 1995 to 1998. He was also Chairman and Chief Executive of Merlyn International Associates from 1997 to 2006 and Chairman of Thorlock International from 1999 to 2000. \n\nHe became a vice-patron of the United Kingdom National Defence Association. \n\nHe was awarded an honorary Doctor of Science from Cranfield University in 1990.\n\nIn 1955 Harding married Sheila Rosemary May; they have three sons and one daughter. \n"}
{"id": "2292199", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292199", "title": "John Fieldhouse, Baron Fieldhouse", "text": "John Fieldhouse, Baron Fieldhouse\n\nAdmiral of the Fleet John David Elliott Fieldhouse, Baron Fieldhouse, (12 February 1928 – 17 February 1992) was a Royal Navy officer. He commanded five submarines and a frigate before achieving higher command from the 1970s. Following the invasion of the Falkland Islands by Argentine forces in April 1982, Fieldhouse was appointed Commander of the Task Force (designated Task Force 317) given responsibility for \"Operation Corporate\", the mission to recover the Falkland Islands. The campaign ended in the surrender of Argentine forces in June 1982. He became First Sea Lord and Chief of Naval Staff in December that year and, in that role, persuaded the British Government to fund the replacement of ships lost in the Falklands War. He went on to be Chief of the Defence Staff from 1985 until his retirement in 1988.\n\nBorn in Leeds to Sir Harold Fieldhouse, who had been secretary of the National Assistance Board, and Mabel Elaine Fieldhouse (née Elliott), Fieldhouse was educated at the Royal Naval College, Dartmouth.\n\nFieldhouse joined the Royal Navy as a cadet in 1944. He was promoted to midshipman on 1 September 1945 and posted to the cruiser in November. Promoted to sub-lieutenant on 1 May 1947, he joined the Submarine Service in 1948 and was posted to the submarine in March 1949. He was promoted to lieutenant on 1 October and subsequently served in the submarines , and then . He completed the Submarine Command Course in 1955.\n\nFieldhouse took command of his first submarine, , in January 1956 and went on to command the submarine in March. Promoted to lieutenant commander on 1 October 1957, he took command of the submarine in June 1958 and then joined the Department of Nuclear Science and Engineering at the Royal Naval College, Greenwich. He went on to command the submarine from January 1961 and was promoted to commander on 31 December. In July 1964 he took command of , the Royal Navy's first nuclear submarine. He attended the Joint Service Defence College in 1966, after which he became second-in-command of the aircraft carrier . With \"Hermes\", Fieldhouse was involved in the preparation for the British withdrawal from Aden during the Aden Emergency. Promoted to captain on 31 December 1967, he moved to Faslane Naval Base, Scotland to command the 10th Submarine Squadron of s. From October 1970, he commanded , a frigate, as part of his overall command of the 3rd Frigate Squadron.\n\nIn 1972, with his promotion to commodore, Fieldhouse took command of the Standing Naval Force Atlantic. He then moved to the Ministry of Defence, initially as Deputy Director of Naval Warfare and then, from November 1973, as Director of Naval Warfare. He was appointed Flag Officer, Second Flotilla in December 1974, promoted to rear admiral on 7 January 1975, and became Flag Officer Submarines as well as NATO Commander Submarines Eastern Atlantic in November 1976. He was promoted to vice admiral on 1 April 1978, and became Controller of the Navy in January 1979. He was appointed a Knight Commander of the Order of the Bath in 1980 New Year Honours.\nFieldhouse became Commander-in-Chief Fleet and NATO Commander-in-Chief, Channel and Commander-in-Chief Eastern Atlantic in April 1981, and received promotion to full admiral on 23 July. Following the invasion of the Falkland Islands by Argentine forces in April 1982, Fieldhouse was appointed Commander of the Task Force (designated Task Force 317) given responsibility for \"Operation Corporate\", the mission to recover the Falkland Islands. He conducted the campaign, which ended in the surrender of Argentine forces in June 1982, from the Northwood Command Centre. He was advanced to Knight Grand Cross of the Order of the Bath in the 1982 Birthday Honours and appointed a Knight Grand Cross of the Order of the British Empire on 11 October 1982 \"in recognition of service within the operations in the South Atlantic\".\nFieldhouse became First Sea Lord and Chief of Naval Staff on 1 December 1982: in that role he persuaded the British Government to fund the replacement of ships lost in the Falklands War. He was promoted to Admiral of the Fleet on 2 August 1985 and became Chief of the Defence Staff later that month. He retired in December 1988.\n\nFieldhouse was made a life peer as Baron Fieldhouse, of Gosport in the County of Hampshire in 1990. In retirement he became a consultant to Vosper Thornycroft plc and his interests included sailing. In 1992 he had a major heart operation in Southampton General Hospital, subsequent to which he caught an infection and died there on 17 February 1992 at the age of 64.\n\nIn 1953 Fieldhouse married Margaret (Midge) Cull; they had a son, Mark, and two daughters, Amanda and Sarah.\n"}
{"id": "2292200", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292200", "title": "Waterfall Bay, Hong Kong", "text": "Waterfall Bay, Hong Kong\n\nWaterfall Bay () is a bay in Pok Fu Lam, Hong Kong Island, Hong Kong. Located on the East Lamma Channel off the coast of Wah Fu Estate and Cyberport at Telegraph Bay, it is named after the waterfall that flows into it. The fresh water from this waterfall is said to have given the city its name – the translation of Hong Kong's name in Cantonese 香港 means \"fragrant harbour\". An eponymous park is now situated around the area.\n\nWaterfall Bay is located in the Pok Fu Lam area, with the waterfall itself encompassed by Wah Fu Estate and the residential complex of Bel-Air on the Peak in Cyberport. Geographically, the bay forms part of the East Lamma Channel. The park surrounding the bay can be accessed by a road by the same name (Waterfall Bay Road), which is connected to Wah Fu Road. A trail at Waterfall Bay Park leads from a series of stairs down to a rocky/sandy area where the falls can be viewed from below.\n\nIt is not known when Waterfall Bay was first discovered. The first English-language mention of Hong Kong or the waterfall was in Dr. Clark Abel's \"Narrative of a Journey to China,\" which recounted his 1816 travels with William Amherst on Amherst's failed mission to China. Lord Amherst used the bay as the rendezvous point for his ships before proceeding north. The visit produced the first engravings of the falls.\n\nFishermen working in the southern part of Hong Kong Island referred to Aberdeen Harbour as \"\"Hong Kong\"\", which translates to \"fragrant harbour\". This name is attributed to the fresh water that flowed into Waterfall Bay from its namesake natural feature. The waterfall became well-known among British and European sailors, who would refill their fresh water supplies directly from the falls on their journey towards other ports in Asia, such as Galle, Ceylon and Malacca. This brought about the city's reputation for its abundant supply of drinking water, one of the few places on the coast of China to have such a resource. As a result, the name derived from the waterfall was later utilized to refer to the entire island and Victoria Harbour.\n\nConstruction of the nearby Pok Fu Lam Reservoir—the first key water storage facility in the colony—was finished in 1863. In order to accomplish this, the streams flowing from the mountains that are the source of the waterfall were dammed. This greatly reduced the flow intensity of the waterfall.\n\nDue to the bay's strategic location overlooking the Lamma Channel, it was utilized by the British during the Second World War to defend the colony from the Japanese. A pillbox and searchlight—known as a Lyon Light—was constructed; the former served as a bunker for Allied soldiers during the Battle of Hong Kong. Now in ruins, they can still be accessed at low tide.\n"}
{"id": "2292220", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292220", "title": "Nicholas John Baker", "text": "Nicholas John Baker\n\nNicholas John 'Nick' Baker is a British citizen who was convicted of smuggling cocaine and ecstasy into Japan. He was arrested at Narita Airport on 13 April 2002 and found guilty by the Chiba Prefecture District Court in June 2003. He was sentenced to 14 years' jail with forced labour and fined ¥5,000,000. At his trial Baker claimed that he was tricked by his travelling companion, James Prunier, into carrying the drugs through customs in a false-bottomed suitcase. Baker also claimed that during his initial detention he was mistreated by Japanese authorities with sleep deprivation, no access to legal counsel, and that he was forced to sign a confession written in poor and inaccurate English. Baker's conviction was upheld on appeal but Baker's sentence was reduced to 11 years in prison and the fine to ¥3,000,000. Baker was transferred back to England in the Spring of 2008 to serve the remainder of his sentence.\nAfter spending six-months at London's Wandsworth prison, Baker was released on licence in October 2008.\n\nBaker, a trained chef and former sandwich-shop manager, ran a fencing business in his home town of Stroud, Gloucestershire, where he lived with his fiancée and their baby son. Baker had met Prunier 3 years before through a mutual interest in football. Prunier had problems with depression, drug and alcohol abuse, and later admitted that he had been involved in criminal activities at this time.\n\nBaker said that Prunier and he, who had been travelling together in Europe, had decided to go to Japan before the 2002 FIFA World Cup to buy souvenirs and allow Prunier to rent a flat for the tournament. Baker and Prunier left Brussels National Airport in Belgium on 12 April, transited through London's Heathrow Airport and arrived at Tokyo's Narita airport at approximately 11:00 a.m. JST, on 13 April 2002.\n\nBaker claimed in a later statement that he had been drinking and was tired from the long flight. He reported that after Prunier and he were split-up at airport immigration, they had met up again at the baggage carousel, and Prunier had told him \"I haven't seen your bag yet, Nick. You grab this and get in a queue and I'll join you when yours comes out.\" When the bag Baker was carrying was searched in customs, 41,120 tablets of ecstasy and 992.5 grams of cocaine were found hidden in false compartments of the suitcase, the largest single illegal drugs haul at Narita airport at that time.\n\nBaker, who has a heavy regional accent, reported that he had told the customs officials, who had limited English language skills, that the case was Prunier's. According to the prosecution at his trial, Baker had the suitcase key in his possession, and threw it into the suitcase during the search. Prunier passed through customs, and although Japanese police monitored his mobile telephone conversations and his movements (including photographing his departure from Japan two days later), he was not detained or questioned.\n\nAs is customary in Japan, following his arrest Nick Baker was detained for 23 days and questioned without access to a lawyer. Baker reported that he was interrogated by as many as six police officers at any one time, shackled to a chair, with his hands tied behind his back. Baker claimed that throughout this period the lights were kept on so he could not sleep and that he did not eat for 20 days. Baker denied that the suitcase was his and claimed that Prunier had tricked him into carrying it through customs. However, at the end of the detention period, he signed a statement in Japanese that during the trial was seen as inconsistent and self-incriminating. Baroness Sarah Ludford, a member of the European Parliament and justice spokeswoman for the United Kingdom's Liberal Democratic Party, criticized the quality of the Japanese-English interpretation during the interrogation, and noted that Baker was required to sign a witness statement in Japanese, a language he did not understand. Baker later claimed that the police had told him that if he signed a statement he would be incriminating Prunier and that he would be allowed to return home. Baker was indicted on 1 May for violation of the Narcotic and Psychotropic Drug Control Law, and Customs Law.\n\nBaker's mother reported that his health had deteriorated during his detention including bleeding gums, a broken finger, daily headaches, severe depression, and extreme back pain caused by sitting on the concrete floor. Until the start of his trial ten months later, Baker was kept in solitary confinement for refusing to admit his guilt, and put on suicide watch because of depression.\n\nThe trial, which opened in February 2003, centred on whether Baker had been aware of the contents of the suitcase as well as an examination of the interrogation records and the confession he had signed. Baker claimed that the statement was mispresentation of his words and his lawyer, Shunji Miyake, argued that since there was no video or audio recording of the interrogations, and no defence lawyer was present, there was no way to check whether falsifications and mistranslations had taken place. Miyake also questioned what he claimed were the 'leading nature' of the questions asked by the interrogators. Baker maintained that the bag was Prunier's, that he had never had the key to the case, and that he had been tricked into carrying the bag by Prunier. Prunier had been arrested for drug smuggling in Belgium a month after Baker's arrest, and his co-accused in the Belgian case had also claimed that Prunier had duped them into carrying bags with drugs. The court ruled the evidence from the Belgian police was inadmissible, and it was not introduced during the trial.\n\nIn June 2003, the presiding judge, Kenji Kadoya, who had never found a defendant innocent in a career spanning more than a decade, found Baker guilty. He said Baker must have known the contents of the case because he had carried the key and had told customs officials and prosecutors that the case belonged to him. The judge also noted a signed confession, which implied Baker knew he was carrying drugs in the bag.\n\nIn the three-hour judgment, which was an almost word-for-word copy of the prosecution's argument, Kadoya said \n\"This is a heinous crime. \"This amount of drugs was a record. If they had entered our country, they would have harmed a large number of people.\" In June 2003, Baker was sentenced to 14 years in prison with forced labour and a ¥5,000,000 fine. Baker's lawyer said Baker had been punished more heavily because he had protested his innocence rather than confessing, which is the usual method by which prosecutors secure convictions.\n\nIn August 2003, James Prunier was interviewed on Central TV about the case. He admitted to being involved in drug smuggling, but denied that he had framed Baker, claiming that Baker was aware of the contents of the case. He subsequently committed suicide in August 2004, while on bail for the Belgian case.\n\nThe High Court appeal began March 2004. The defence argued that poor translation during police interrogations and during the district court trial had affected the outcome of the trial and submitted expert testimony about translation errors. They also suggested that the investigation was improperly conducted, that there were inconsistencies in official reports, and that important evidence, such as the Belgian information, had been ignored at the original trial.\n\nOn 27 October 2005 the presiding judge upheld the guilty verdict, rejecting defence suggestions. The judge questioned why Baker had travelled to Japan after Prunier had told him \"If anything goes wrong on the way to Japan, your family will be killed.\" He also noted that the drugs were very skillfully hidden, and that more than half of the contents of the suitcase belonged to Baker, suggesting that it belonged to him. The judge also commented that \"the defendant has not reflected sincerely on his acts.\"\nHowever, he reduced the sentence from 14 years to 11 years noting that Baker did not seem to be the mastermind, and his family had been worried about him. Baker's fine was also reduced from ¥5,000,000 (approximately £24,392) to ¥3,000,000 (approximately £14,635). This had to be paid within four weeks or he would have to serve an extra 150 days of hard labour.\n\nIn November 2005, Baker decided not to appeal to Japan's Supreme Court and was transferred to Fuchu Prison to begin serving his sentence. Having served one third of his sentence, Nick Baker was transferred back to England in the spring of 2008 to serve the remainder of his sentence.\nAfter six months at London's Wandsworth prison he was released on licence in October 2008.\n\nIn April 2003, Baker's mother Iris publicly stated her belief that Nick Baker was innocent and had been framed. She subsequently led a campaign against her son's allegedly unfair trial, for better prison treatment and more recently for a transfer back to a UK prison. Campaign actions including presenting a petition signed by more than 1,000 people, including several Members of European Parliament, to Tony Blair at 10 Downing Street.\n\nIn July 2003, Lady Ludford called for Tony Blair to raise the issue during a summit with his Japanese counterpart Junichiro Koizumi though he did not do so. A question was raised in the British House of Commons in 2004 regarding progress of the case and Baker's health and confinement conditions.\nMark Devlin, who at the time was the publisher of \"Metropolis\", initially supported the Nick Baker campaign but withdrew his support in 2004 and publicly criticized the support group's campaign tactics.\n\nThe International Bar Association cited problems specific to the Baker case, particularly the lack of any recordings of interrogations in a 2006 report. Fair Trials Abroad, director Stephen Jakobi said Baker's case raised major concerns regarding the Japanese justice system and its compliance with the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, and pointed out Senrikinran University linguistics Professor Makiko Mizuno's criticism of the Japanese judiciary's understanding of what constitutes an able interpreter.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2292225", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292225", "title": "Light-dragging effects", "text": "Light-dragging effects\n\nIn 19th century physics, there were several situations in which the motion of matter might be said to drag light. This aether drag hypothesis was an attempt by classical physics to explain stellar aberration and the Fizeau experiment, but was discarded when Albert Einstein introduced his theory of relativity. Despite this, the expression \"light-dragging\" has remained in use somewhat, as discussed on this page.\n\nUnder special relativity's simplified model Einstein assumes that light-dragging effects do not occur, and that the speed of light is independent of the speed of the emitting body's motion. However, the special theory of relativity does not deal with \"particulate matter\" effects or gravitational effects, nor does it provide a complete relativistic description of acceleration. When more realistic assumptions are made (that real objects are composed of particulate matter, and have gravitational properties), under general relativity's more sophisticated model the resulting descriptions include light-dragging effects.\n\nEinstein's theory of special relativity provides the solution to the Fizeau Experiment, which demonstrates the effect termed Fresnel drag whereby the velocity of light is modified by travelling through a moving medium. Einstein showed how the velocity of light in a moving medium is calculated, in the velocity-addition formula of special relativity.\n\nEinstein's theory of general relativity provides the solution to the other light-dragging effects, whereby the velocity of light is modified by the motion or the rotation of nearby masses. These effects all have one property in common: they are all velocity-dependent effects, whether that velocity be straight-line motion (causing frame-dragging) or rotational motion (causing rotation-dragging).\n\nSpecial relativity predicts that the velocity of light is modified by travelling through a \"moving\" medium.\n\n\nGeneral relativity predicts that the \"acceleration\" of a body in a straight line will cause light to drag, an effect known as Frame dragging (or gravitoelectromagnetism).\n\n\nUnder general relativity, the rotation of a body gives it an additional gravitational attraction due to its kinetic energy; and light is pulled around (to some degree) by the rotation (Lense–Thirring effect).\n\n\n\nPandey, Apoorv (2019) \"An Alternative interpretation of Unruh effect\". IJSER Volume 10, ISSN 2229-5518. https://www.ijser.org/onlineResearchPaperViewer.aspx?An-Alternative-Interpretation-for-Unruh-Effect.pdf\n\n"}
{"id": "2292229", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292229", "title": "John Cranko", "text": "John Cranko\n\nJohn Cyril Cranko (15 August 1927 – 26 June 1973) was a South African born ballet dancer and choreographer with the Royal Ballet and the Stuttgart Ballet.\n\nCranko was born in Rustenburg in the former province of Transvaal, South Africa. As a child, he would put on puppet shows as a creative outlet. Cranko received his early ballet training in Cape Town under the leading South African ballet teacher and director, Dulcie Howes, of the University of Cape Town Ballet School. In 1945 he choreographed his first work (using Stravinsky's Suite from \"L'Histoire du soldat\") for the Cape Town Ballet Club. He then moved to London, studying with the Sadler's Wells Ballet School in 1946 and dancing his first role with the Sadler's Wells Ballet in November 1947.\n\nCranko collaborated with the designer John Piper on \"Sea Change\", performed at the Gaiety Theatre, Dublin in July 1949. They collaborated again for Sadler's Wells Ballet on \"The Shadow\", which opened on 3 March 1953. This period marked a transition in Cranko's career from dancer to full-time choreographer, with his last performance for the Sadler's Wells Ballet taking place in April 1950. At 23 years old, he was appointed as resident choreographer for Sadler's Wells Theatre Ballet's 1950–51 season.\n\nFor the company's Festival of Britain season in 1951 Cranko choreographed the comic ballet \"Pineapple Poll\", to the music of Arthur Sullivan (newly out of copyright) arranged by the conductor Charles Mackerras. Another collaboration with Mackerras followed in 1954 with \"The Lady and the Fool\", to music by Verdi. In January 1954 Sadler's Wells Ballet announced that Cranko was collaborating with Benjamin Britten to create a ballet. Cranko devised a draft scenario for a work he originally called \"The Green Serpent\", fusing elements drawn from \"King Lear\", \"Beauty and the Beast\" (a story he had choreographed for Sadler's Wells in 1948) and the oriental tale published by Madame d'Aulnoy as \"Serpentin Vert\". Creating a list of dances, simply describing the action and giving a total timing for each, he passed this to Britten and left him to compose what eventually became \"The Prince of the Pagodas\".\n\nCranko wrote and developed a musical revue \"Cranks\", which opened in London in December 1955, moved to a West End theatre the following March, and ran for 223 performances. With music by John Addison, its cast of four featured the singers Anthony Newley, Annie Ross, Hugh Bryant and the dancer Gilbert Vernon; it transferred to Broadway at the Bijou Theatre. An original cast CD has been released. Cranko followed the format of \"Cranks\" with a new revue \"New Cranks\" opening at the Lyric Theatre Hammersmith on 26 April 1960 with music by David Lee and a cast including Gillian Lynne, Carole Shelley and Bernard Cribbins, but it failed to have the same impact.\n\nIn 1960, Cranko directed the first production of Benjamin Britten's opera \"A Midsummer Night's Dream\", at the Aldeburgh Festival. When the work had its London premiere the following year at Covent Garden, Cranko was not invited to direct, and Sir John Gielgud was brought in.\n\nProsecuted for homosexual activity, Cranko left the UK for Stuttgart, and in 1961 was appointed director of the Stuttgart Ballet, where he assembled a group of talented performers such as Marcia Haydée, Egon Madsen, Richard Cragun, Birgit Keil and Suzanne Hanke. Among his following choreographies were \"Romeo and Juliet\" by William Shakespeare in 1962, set to music by Prokofiev, \"Onegin\" in 1965, an adaptation of the verse novel \"Eugene Onegin\" by Alexander Pushkin, set to music by Tchaikovsky (mainly \"The Seasons\"), orchestrated by Kurt-Heinz Stolze, \"The Taming of the Shrew\" by Shakespeare in 1969, \"Brouillards\" in 1970, \"Carmen\" in 1971 (music by Wolfgang Fortner and Wilfried Steinbrenner) and \"Spuren (Traces)\" in 1973.\n\nCranko's work was a major contribution to the international success of German ballet beginning with a guest performance at the New York Metropolitan Opera in 1969. At Stuttgart, Cranko invited Kenneth MacMillan to work with the company, for whom MacMillan created four ballets in Cranko's lifetime and a fifth, \"Requiem\", as a tribute after Cranko's death. At Cranko's instigation the company established its own ballet school in 1971; it was renamed the John Cranko Schule in his honour in 1974. His assistant and choreologist Georgette Tsinguirides preserved his works in Benesh Movement Notation.\n\nCranko choked to death after suffering an allergic reaction to a sleeping pill he took during a transatlantic charter flight from Philadelphia to Stuttgart two days after the company completed a successful tour of the United States at the Academy of Music in Philadelphia. The flight made an emergency landing in Dublin where Cranko was pronounced dead upon arrival at a hospital. His mother, Grace, who was divorced from Herbert and lived in what was then Rhodesia, heard about his death from a radio broadcast. Cranko was buried at a small cemetery near Castle Solitude in Stuttgart.\n\nIn 2007, the Stuttgart Ballet celebrated what would have been Cranko's 80th birthday with the Cranko Festival. The ballet \"Voluntaries\" by Glen Tetley was created in his memory. The John Cranko Society in Stuttgart, founded in 1975, promotes knowledge of ballet and Cranko's work, supports performances and talented dancers, and every year presents the John Cranko Award.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2292230", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292230", "title": "Sci Fiction", "text": "Sci Fiction\n\nSci Fiction was an online magazine which ran from 2000 to 2005. At one time, it was the leading online science fiction magazine. Published by Syfy and edited by Ellen Datlow, the work won multiple awards before it was discontinued.\n\nThe magazine was created by what was then the US Sci Fi Channel (now Syfy), and hosted at SCIFI.COM. The webzine starting publishing in May 2000. The principal editor was Ellen Datlow, who had previously edited two other online magazines: The online incarnation of \"OMNI\", and \"Event Horizon\".\n\nThe webzine first made a splash when Linda Nagata's \"Goddesses\" won the Nebula Award for Best Novella for 2000. It was the first time that a piece of fiction originally published on a website won a Nebula. In 2002 Ellen Datlow won her first Hugo Award for Best Editor. In 2003 stories from the webzine won three awards, the Nebula Awards for Best Short Story (\"What I Didn't See\" by Karen Joy Fowler) and Best Novelette (\"The Empire of Ice Cream\" by Jeffrey Ford), and the Theodore Sturgeon Award for Lucius Shepard's novella \"Over Yonder\". In 2005, Datlow won her second Hugo Award for Best Editor and the website itself won a Hugo for Best Website. She also won her first Locus Award for Best Editor in 2005.\n\nIn late 2005 the SciFi Channel announced that it would be shutting down the magazine. This decision was evidently made because the magazine was not a major revenue generator for the channel. SCIFI announced their intention to remove the \"Sci Fiction\" archived content as of June 2007, although some of it was still available over a year later. It has since been removed completely.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2292252", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292252", "title": "Al Meethaq", "text": "Al Meethaq\n\nAl-Meethaq (; ) is a liberal political party in Bahrain. It was founded by Sunni and Shi'a businessmen from well-known families in 2002.\n\nIt won no seats in the 2002 or 2006 general elections. Sixteen of its members were appointed by the King of Bahrain in 2002 to the wholly appointed Consultative Council of Bahrain which co-legislates with the elected Council of Representatives of Bahrain.\n\nWith other liberal groups, al-Meethaq has established the Al-Muntada activist group which campaigns for personal freedoms.\n\nThe party's leader is Ahmad Juma, who is culture editor of the newspaper \"Al Ayam\".\n\nOn 16 February 2011, the third day of the Bahraini uprising, al-Meethaq said that it was unconstitutional to ask for devolution of power and establishment of an elected government. \"The repeated statements by Ali Salman, head of Al Wefaq about devolution of power and an elected government are completely flawed\", the statement said.\n\n"}
{"id": "2292256", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292256", "title": "Henry Somerset, 10th Duke of Beaufort", "text": "Henry Somerset, 10th Duke of Beaufort\n\nHenry Hugh Arthur FitzRoy Somerset, 10th Duke of Beaufort (4 April 1900 – 5 February 1984), KG, GCVO, GCC, PC , of Badminton House in Gloucestershire, styled Marquess of Worcester until 1924, was a peer, landowner, society figure and a great authority in the fields of horse racing and fox-hunting. As a relative and very close friend of the Royal Family, he held the office of Master of the Horse for 42 years (1936–1978), the longest to hold the position. He founded the Badminton Horse Trials and was deemed \"the greatest fox-hunter of the twentieth century\"; his long tenure as Master of the Beaufort Hunt led to his being universally nicknamed \"Master\" and his car bore the private numberplate MFH1. In 1980 he published the authoritative book \"Fox-Hunting\".\n\nHe was the youngest child and only son and heir of Henry Somerset, 9th Duke of Beaufort (1847–1924) by his wife Louise Emily Harford (1864–1945), a daughter of William Henry Harford, JP, DL, of Oldtown, Tockington, Gloucestershire, and widow of Charles Frederic van Tuyll van Serooskerken (1859–1893), a Dutch baron, by whom she had two sons. \n\nHe was descended in the male line from Charles Somerset, 1st Earl of Worcester, 1st Baron Herbert (c.1460–1526), KG, an illegitimate son of Henry Beaufort, 3rd Duke of Somerset (1436–1464), 3rd in descent from John of Gaunt, 1st Duke of Lancaster (3rd surviving son of King Edward III) by his mistress (and later wife) Katherine Swynford. Charles was given the surname \"Somerset\" and was created Baron Herbert in 1506 and Earl of Worcester in 1513. The present Dukes of Beaufort are thus the last known surviving male-line descendants of King Henry II (1154–1189) of England, Count of Anjou, founder of the Plantagenet dynasty, of which King Richard III (1483–1485) was the last ruling member in the male line. The present Queen is descended from King Henry II only through various female lines, all of them however legitimate. The surname Beaufort (properly \"de Beaufort\", \"from Beaufort\") reflects the fact that Katherine Swynford gave birth to her illegitimate children by John of Gaunt at his French castle and manor of Beaufort (\"beautiful stronghold\") (from 1688 \"Montmorency-Beaufort\") in Champagne, situated 100 miles east of Paris.\n\nHe was educated at Eton College and the Royal Military College, Sandhurst, from which he was commissioned into the Royal Horse Guards.\n\nBeaufort left the Army after a few years with the rank of lieutenant. He was Honorary Colonel of the 21st (Royal Gloucestershire Hussars) Armoured Car Company, Territorial Army between 1969 and 1971 and Honorary Colonel of the Royal Wessex Yeomanry between 1971 and 1984, and the Warwickshire Yeomanry between 1971 and 1972.\n\nAfter the International Horse Show of 1933 was abandoned, a new committee headed by the young Beaufort succeeded in re-establishing the event at Olympia in 1934.\n\nBeaufort was Master of the Horse (1936–1978) to three British sovereigns, Edward VIII, George VI, and Elizabeth II. As such he took part in royal functions, such as the 1947 wedding of Princess Elizabeth and Philip, Duke of Edinburgh.\n\nHe was appointed a Knight Grand Cross of the Royal Victorian Order (GCVO) in 1930, a Privy Counsellor in 1936, a Knight of the Order of the Garter in 1937 and was awarded the decoration of the Royal Victorian Chain in 1953. In 1955, Francisco Craveiro Lopes, President of the Portuguese Republic, awarded him the Grand Cross of the Order of Christ.\n\nHe was Steward of Tewkesbury between 1948 and 1984, Hereditary Keeper of Raglan Castle (an office created by his ancestor William ap Thomas, the Blue Knight of Gwent), Lord Lieutenant of Bristol from 1931 to 1974 and High Steward of Bristol, Tewkesbury and Gloucestershire. He also held the office of Lord Lieutenant of Gloucestershire between 1931 and 1984 and was Chancellor of the University of Bristol from 1965 to 1970.\n\nOther offices held included President of the MCC, Bristol Rovers F.C., the British Olympic Association, the Battersea Dogs Home, and the Anchor Society in Bristol in 1969.\n\nHe authored the following works:\n\nOn 14 June 1923, Somerset, then styled Marquess of Worcester, married Lady Victoria Constance Mary Cambridge (1897–1987), a daughter of Adolphus Cambridge, 1st Marquess of Cambridge, a German prince whose mother was a granddaughter of King George III of the United Kingdom. The marriage was without issue. Victoria had been born with the title Princess Mary of Teck; however, on 17 July 1917, following World War I, King George V decides to outwardly renounce his German heritage and issued a royal proclamation that changed the name of the British royal house from the German-sounding House of Saxe-Coburg and Gotha to the House of Windsor. All the king's British-domiciled German relatives likewise relinquished their German titles and styles, and were granted new British titles. Mary's father was created Marquess of Cambridge, and she became known as Lady Mary Cambridge until her marriage.\n\nMary's paternal aunt was Queen Mary, wife of George V, thus among her first cousins were King Edward VIII and King George VI. The Dukes of Beaufort were among the closest friends of the Royal Family. Queen Mary lived at Badminton during World War II; and the royals stayed there several times a year, particularly for the Badminton Horse Trials, which usually took place at the time of the Queen's birthday.\n\nA biographer described the Duke as:\n\nAmong the Duke's myriad personal friends was David Niven; during World War II he hosted Eleanor Roosevelt and Haile Selassie at Badminton. James Lees-Milne, the conservationist, rented a house next door and records their poor relationship in his celebrated diaries—he thought the Duke was \"feudal\". He was \"a legendary womaniser\" who conducted affairs with, among others, Lavinia, Duchess of Norfolk and Sally, Duchess of Westminster, a cousin of his wife's. \n\nBeaufort died in 1984, aged 83, at his seat of Badminton House, and was buried in the churchyard of his parish Church of St Michael and All Angels, Badminton. Unusually, the Queen, who usually attends funerals of close family only, went to his, as did most other members of the Royal Family. On Boxing Day 1984 animal-rights activists vandalised his grave but stopped short of their plan to disinter his remains and send his head to Princess Anne. \n\nThe Dukedom of Beaufort, created in 1682 by letters patent not by writ, cannot pass via a female line. As he died childless, the dukedom, the titles Earl of Worcester (cr.1513), Marquess of Worcester (cr.1642) and his estates passed to his first cousin twice removed, David Somerset, 11th Duke of Beaufort (born 1928) (the grandson of his first cousin Henry Charles Somers Augustus Somerset, son of Lord Henry Somerset, second son of the 8th Duke), to whom he was close and who had lived for many years on the Badminton estate which he had helped to manage.\n\nThe ancient titles of Baron de Botetourt (cr.1305) and Baron Herbert (cr.1461), created by writ, are able to pass via a female line and thus on the Duke's death they fell into abeyance between various descendants of his elder sister Lady Blanche Somerset (1897–1968), the wife firstly of John Eliot, 6th Earl of St Germans. Lady Blanche's two daughters were:\n\n"}
{"id": "2292259", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292259", "title": "Freedom School", "text": "Freedom School\n\nThe Freedom School was located in Colorado, United States, offering a series of lectures by libertarian theorist Robert LeFevre from 1957 to 1968. LeFevre extended this work to the related Rampart College, an unaccredited four-year school, in 1963. Both shared the same campus. In 1965, a flood devastated the campus, and the school and college were moved to Santa Ana, California, where they lasted until at late 1975. They were succeeded by the Rampart Institute. LeFevre stepped down as president in 1973, succeeded by Sy Leon. A new Freedom School was established in January 2010 to carry on in the LeFevre tradition.\n"}
{"id": "2292262", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292262", "title": "François Ngeze", "text": "François Ngeze\n\nFrançois Ngeze (born in 1947 Bujumbura Province) was the head of state of Burundi from 21 October 1993 to 27 October 1993. He was chosen by the military Committee of Public Salvation, a group of army officers that staged the 1993 Burundian coup d'état attempt overthrew the democratically elected government of president Melchior Ndadaye (who was killed during the coup attempt).\n\nNgeze, one of the few prominent Hutu members of UPRONA (Union for National Progress) at the time, was interior minister in the government of Pierre Buyoya, who was defeated by Ndadaye in elections held on 1 June 1993.\n\nFollowing widespread condemnation of the coup, the Committee of Public Salvation was dissolved on 27 October. Sylvie Kinigi, prime minister in the Ndadaye government, took over as acting president.\n"}
{"id": "2292272", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292272", "title": "Frodus", "text": "Frodus\n\nFrodus (a.k.a. Frodus Conglomerate International, Frodus Sound Laboratories, FCI, Frodus Escape Plan, Frodus Deposit Insurance Corporation) was an American post-hardcore band formed in 1993 in Washington, D.C. by vocalist/guitarist Shelby Cinca and drummer Jason Hamacher. The band went through numerous bassists over the course of their career. Their mixture of math rock and hardcore punk plus their lyrical themes, frequently dark and dissonant and seen as esoteric for the time, led them to be described by critics as one of the most influential post-hardcore bands of the 1990s.\n\nFrodus' first releases were self-distributed cassettes and 7 inches, such as \"Babe\", \"Tzo-Boy\", and \"Molotov Cocktail Party\". Two other releases (\"Fireflies\" and \"F-Letter\"), on now defunct indie labels, followed. Frodus later signed with Tooth & Nail Records, an independent label out of Seattle, with whom they released \"Conglomerate International\" in 1998. Most of Frodus' recognition was due to their final release, \"And We Washed Our Weapons in the Sea\", recorded in 1999 and released in 2001 on Fueled by Ramen, considered by band members to be their best recorded work.\n\nThe name Frodus came from the last episode of TV series \"The Monkees\" called \"Mijacogeo\" (a.k.a. \"The Frodis Caper\").\n\nAfter Frodus broke up in 1999, it took two years to find a label to release their final album. The first label, MIA Records, shut down due to the owner (also a Texas oil-tycoon) having to settle a long-standing lawsuit. Afterwards, long-time Frodus friend Tony Weinbender (then of Fueled by Ramen Records) offered to release Frodus' final album.\n\nShelby Cinca briefly joined the band Bluebird as a second guitarist following the breakup of Frodus, but left before recording any material with them. In 2000, Nathan went on to form The Out Circuit and Night Is Invisible (both of which released records on Lujo Records), and Hamacher went on to drum for Combatwoundedveteran. In 2003, the founding members Shelby Cinca and Jason Hamacher along with bassist Joe Lally of Fugazi joined to form The Black Sea. They later changed their name to Decahedron. Lally left shortly after the completion of their debut album and was replaced by Jonathan Ford (Unwed Sailor, Roadside Monument). Continually plagued by bassist fluctuation anomalies, Ford quit in 2004 and was later replaced by Jake Brown (Moments in Grace, Twothirtyeight). In 2005, they suspended operations after the release of their EP entitled \"2005\". Shelby Cinca then focused on his Swedish project Frantic Mantis with Håkan Johansson and Per Stålberg of Division of Laura Lee, and completed the third album by The Cassettes (Buddyhead Records, 2006). In 2006, Jason Hamacher started a project with Mike Schliebaum of Darkest Hour called Zealot. Cinca began releasing IDM, made on a Game Boy (Game Boy music) with the Nanoloop software, under his own name.\n\n2006 also saw the relaunch of the Frodus web-presence and consolidation of its MySpace entities. The site is an ongoing project of archiving all known interviews, previous website designs, press clippings, and digital transfers for media content. Shelby Cinca also began remastering out-of-print releases and adding them to the iTunes library and other digital music services through his partnership with Carcrash Records.\n\n2009 saw Frodus reunite as the Frodus Escape Plan/Frodus Conglomerate International/FDIC (Frodus Despotic (or Deposit) Insurance Corporation) with Liam Wilson from The Dillinger Escape Plan on bass, and Jake Brown from Moments in Grace also on bass for select appearances. The reunion was organized in commemoration of the re-release of the \"Conglomerate International\" double-vinyl LP on Gilead Media, and as a statement in response to the bank-bailouts and the uncovering of corporate corruption in the financial sector.\n\nIn 2010, Frodus released a new 7″ of material, \"Soundlab 1\", recorded in 2009 with Liam Wilson on bass, as a limited edition 7″ vinyl on Lovitt Records.\n\nA reissue of the band's final album, \"And We Washed Our Weapons In the Sea\" was released on Lovitt Records in 2015.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2292283", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292283", "title": "Répétiteur", "text": "Répétiteur\n\nA répétiteur (from French verb \"répéter\" meaning \"to repeat, to go over, to learn, to rehearse\") is an accompanist, tutor or coach of ballet dancers or opera singers.\n\nIn opera, a \"répétiteur\" is the person responsible for coaching singers and playing the piano for music and production rehearsals. When coaching solo singers or choir members, the \"répétiteur\" will take on a number of the roles of a vocal coach: advising singers on how to improve their pitch and pronunciation, and correcting note or phrasing errors.\n\n\"Répétiteurs\" are skilled musicians who have strong sight-reading and score reading skills. In addition to being able to sight read piano parts, a \"répétiteur\" can play on the piano an orchestral score reducing it in real-time (orchestral reduction), by reading from a large open score of all of the instruments and voice parts. \"Répétiteurs\" are also skilled in following the directions of a conductor, in terms of changing the tempo, pausing, or adding other nuances.\n\nIn ballet, a \"répétiteur\" teaches the steps and interpretation of the roles to some or all of the company performing a dance. Several late 20th-century choreographers, such as George Balanchine, Jerome Robbins, Gerald Arpino and Twyla Tharp, have established trusts and appointed conservators—hand-picked dancers who have intimate knowledge of particular ballets—as \"répétiteurs\" of their works.\n"}
{"id": "2292284", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292284", "title": "Joseph Perella", "text": "Joseph Perella\n\nJoseph R. Perella (born September 20, 1941) is an Italian-American financier.\n\nPerella was born in Newark, New Jersey, to an accountant. Perella attended Lehigh University on a full scholarship. During his time at Lehigh, Perella was a member of Phi Kappa Theta, Fraternity for men. Following his sophomore year at Lehigh, Perella took several years off before returning and graduating from the university in 1964 with a degree in accounting. After serving in the United States Air Force and the New Jersey Air National Guard from 1964 to 1970, he attended and graduated from Harvard Business School in May 1972 with a Masters in Business Administration.\n\nIn the fall of 1972, he was hired as an associate at First Boston, where he worked in the mergers and acquisitions department. He remained with First Boston until 1988 when he teamed up with associate Bruce Wasserstein to create their own mergers and acquisitions advisory business as Wasserstein Perella & Co.. Their company was at the forefront of the 1980s/90s boom in corporate takeovers.\n\nJoseph Perella left Wasserstein Perella in 1992/1993 to join Morgan Stanley, where he was first head of mergers and acquisitions, and then the chairman of the Institutional Securities and Investment Banking Group. In 2005, Perella and other top executives resigned from Morgan Stanley in the wake of policy disagreements with Chairman Philip J. Purcell. Purcell soon resigned following more high level departures from Morgan Stanley.\n\nOne of the deals Perella advised on following his departure from Morgan Stanley was advising on the Bank of America takeover of credit card company MBNA. In November 2005, Perella and former Morgan Stanley banker Terry Meguid announced that they were opening an investment banking boutique. On June 15, 2006, Perella announced the formation of a new financial services firm, Perella Weinberg Partners, based in New York and London.\n\nPerella is a Lehigh University trustee. In 2003, he and his wife Amy, a survivor of Hodgkin's disease, donated $10 million to the College of Business and Economics to endow the \"Perella Department of Finance\" and several faculty positions. They have also an endowed scholarship fund for Lehigh students from the Newark, N.J. area, where Perella grew up. They also supported the construction of Rauch Business Center. In addition, the couple created \"The Amy and Joseph Perella Professor of Medicine\" at Yale University. He is also a member of the National Italian American Federation.\n"}
{"id": "2292285", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292285", "title": "Baker Street (song)", "text": "Baker Street (song)\n\n\"Baker Street\" is a song written and recorded by Scottish singer-songwriter Gerry Rafferty. Released as a single in 1978, it reached No. 1 in \"Cash Box\" and No. 2 on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100, where it held its \"Billboard\" position for six weeks, behind Andy Gibb's \"Shadow Dancing\". It spent four weeks at No. 1 in Canada, No. 1 in Australia and South Africa, hit No. 3 in the United Kingdom, and the top 10 in the Netherlands. Rafferty received the 1978 Ivor Novello Award for Best Song Musically and Lyrically. The arrangement is known for its saxophone riff.\n\nIn October 2010, the song was recognised by BMI for surpassing five million performances worldwide. It was awarded Gold Certification on two occasions, on 1 April 1978 and 22 July 2013 by the BPI in the UK.\n\nNamed after Baker Street in London, the song was included on Rafferty's second solo album, \"City to City\" (1978), which was his first release after the resolution of legal problems surrounding the break-up of his old band, Stealers Wheel, in 1975. In the intervening three years, Rafferty had been unable to release any material because of disputes about the band's remaining contractual recording obligations.\n\nRafferty wrote the song during a period when he was trying to extricate himself from his Stealers Wheel contracts; he was regularly travelling between his family home in Paisley and London, where he often stayed at a friend's flat in Baker Street. As Rafferty put it, \"everybody was suing each other, so I spent a lot of time on the overnight train from Glasgow to London for meetings with lawyers. I knew a guy who lived in a little flat off Baker Street. We'd sit and chat or play guitar there through the night.\" Privately, Rafferty also spent a lot of time drinking, which he noted he mentions in the lyrics, \"Light in your head and dead on your feet / Well, another crazy day / You'll drink the night away / And forget about everything.\"\n\nThe resolution of Rafferty's legal and financial frustrations accounted for the exhilaration of the song's last verse: \"When you wake up it's a new morning/The sun is shining, it's a new morning/You're going, you're going home.\" Rafferty's daughter Martha has said that the book that inspired the song more than any other was Colin Wilson's \"The Outsider\" (1956). Rafferty was reading the book, which explores ideas of alienation and of creativity, borne out of a longing to be connected, at this time of traveling between the two cities.\n\nThe album \"City to City\" (1978), including \"Baker Street\", was co-produced by Rafferty and Hugh Murphy. In addition to a searing guitar solo, played by Hugh Burns, the song featured a prominent eight-bar saxophone riff played as a break between verses, by Raphael Ravenscroft.\n\nRafferty claimed that he wrote the hook with the original intention that it be sung. Ravenscroft remembered things differently, saying that he was presented with a song that contained \"several gaps\". \"In fact, most of what I played was an old blues riff,\" stated Ravenscroft. \"If you're asking me: 'Did Gerry hand me a piece of music to play?' then no, he didn't.\" However, the 2011 reissue of \"City to City\" included the demo of Baker Street which included the saxophone part played on electric guitar by Rafferty. A very similar sax line, however, was originally played by saxophonist Steve Marcus for a song called \"Half a Heart\", credited to vibraphonist Gary Burton, that appeared on Marcus' 1968 album \"Tomorrow Never Knows\".\n\nRavenscroft, a session musician, was in the studio to record a brief soprano saxophone part and suggested that he record the break using the alto saxophone he had in his car. The part led to what became known as \"the 'Baker Street' phenomenon\", a resurgence in the sales of saxophones and their use in mainstream pop music and television advertising.\n\nIn January 2011, radio presenter Simon Lederman revealed that Ravenscroft thought the solo was out of tune. When asked during a live radio interview on BBC Radio London, \"What do you think when you hear [the sax solo] now?\" Ravenscroft replied, \"I'm irritated because it's out of tune; yeah it's flat; by enough of a degree that it irritates me at best\", and admitted he was \"gutted\" when he heard it played back. He added that he had not been able to re-record the take, as he was not involved when the song was mixed.\n\nAccording to one story, Ravenscroft received no payment for a song that earned Rafferty an income of £80,000 per annum; a cheque for £27 given to Ravenscroft bounced and was framed and hung on his solicitor's wall. However, the bouncing cheque story was denied by Ravenscroft during an interview on BBC Radio 2's \"Simon Mayo Drivetime\" show on 9 February 2012.\n\nThe saxophone riff was also the subject of another urban legend in the UK, created in the 1980s by British writer and broadcaster Stuart Maconie. As one of the spoof facts invented for the regular \"Would You Believe It?\" section in the \"NME\", Maconie falsely claimed that British radio and television presenter Bob Holness had played the saxophone part on the recording. Later, the claim was widely repeated.\n\n\n\"Baker Street\" reached No. 3 in the UK and No. 2 for six consecutive weeks in the US, kept out of the number-one spot by Andy Gibb's \"Shadow Dancing\".\n\nBritish dance group Undercover covered the song on their 1992 album, \"Check Out the Groove\". This version reached No. 2 on the UK Singles Chart and became a top-three hit in Austria, Belgium, Germany, Ireland, the Netherlands and Switzerland. \"Music & Media\" wrote that \"Gerry Rafferty's rainy days anthem is now transferred from the comfortable living room to the heat of clubland. The typical saxophone hook is on acid as well.\"\n\n\nThe US rock band Foo Fighters covered the song on their 1998 My Hero UK CD single release, on the Australian tour pack (Grey cover) release, on the Limited edition European bonus EP and as one of several bonus tracks added to the remastered tenth anniversary release of their second studio album, The Colour and the Shape, reissued in 2007. The cover does not include the saxophone riff the original is known for.\n\n"}
{"id": "2292286", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292286", "title": "Samuel Vestey, 3rd Baron Vestey", "text": "Samuel Vestey, 3rd Baron Vestey\n\nSamuel George Armstrong Vestey, 3rd Baron Vestey, (born 19 March 1941) is a British peer, landowner, and businessman. Lord Vestey served as Master of the Horse to The Queen.\n\nSamuel Vestey was born on 19 March 1941, the son of Captain Hon. William Howarth Vestey, a member of the Scots Guards who was killed in action in 1944 during the Second World War. Through his mother, Lady Vestey (née Pamela Armstrong), he is a great-grandson of the celebrated opera singer Dame Nellie Melba. He was educated at Eton College, before attending Sandhurst and serving as a Lieutenant in the Scots Guards.\n\nVestey has been the chairman of the Vestey Group since 1995, and was the chairman of the Meat Training Council from 1991 to 1995. He is also a liveryman of the Worshipful Company of Butchers. In 1980, A \"Sunday Times\" investigation revealed that he and his cousin Edmund were found to have paid just £10 in tax on the family business's £2.3m profit made by the Dewhurst chain.\n\nVestey's battle with the native Australian Gurindji people over working conditions and native land claims was chronicled in Paul Kelly's song \"From Little Things Big Things Grow\", originally released on his 1991 album \"Comedy\". Vestey also features in Ted Egan's song \"Gurindji Blues\", which is about the land rights and working conditions of Australian aboriginal people at Wave Hill Station in the Northern Territory.\n\nIn 1954 Vestey succeeded his grandfather in the peerage title at the age of thirteen. His family seat is Stowell Park Estate in Gloucestershire, where his father is buried.\n\nHe was Chancellor (1988–91) and Lord Prior of the Most Venerable Order of the Hospital of St John of Jerusalem (1991–2002) having been appointed Bailiff Grand Cross (GCStJ) in 1987. He became a Deputy Lieutenant of Gloucestershire in 1982.\n\nVestey has served as Master of the Horse to the Royal Household, to the Sovereign of the United Kingdom from 1999 to 2018, who appointed him Knight Commander of the Royal Victorian Order (KCVO) in the 2009 Birthday Honours.\nThe Queen promoted Lord Vestey to Knight Grand Cross of the Royal Victorian Order (GCVO) in December 2018, on the occasion of him relinquishing his appointment as Master of the Horse. Vestey was appointed as a permanent Lord-in-waiting to The Queen in August 2019. \n\nVestey married Kathryn Eccles (died 13 December 2017) on 11 September 1970 and they were divorced in 1981. They have two daughters and four grandchildren:\nHe married Celia Knight on 22 December 1981. They have three children:\n\nHis elder son, the Hon. William Guy Vestey, served as a Page of Honour to Queen Elizabeth II from 1995 to 1998.\n\nThe Vestey family's combined wealth (Lord Vestey, with his cousin, Edmund Hoyle Vestey) amounts to approximately £1.2 billion according to the Sunday Times Rich List 2013.\n\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "2292295", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292295", "title": "The 10 Year Limited Edition Anniversary Box Set", "text": "The 10 Year Limited Edition Anniversary Box Set\n\nThe 10 Year Limited Edition Anniversary Box Set is a box set by the band Blur released in limited quantities on 17 August 1999. It contains 22 CDs with 126 tracks featuring all official UK singles from their debut album, \"Leisure\", to their 1999 album, \"13\", and the b-sides, with the exception of three of the b-sides featured on the single No Distance Left to Run (this is due to the single being released after the boxset). Fanclub singles, promotional singles, and singles released in other countries are not included.\n\nDisc one\n\nDisc two\n\nDisc three\n\nDisc four\n\nDisc five\n\nDisc six\n\nDisc seven\n\nDisc eight\n\nDisc nine\n\nDisc ten\n\nDisc eleven\n\nDisc twelve\n\nDisc thirteen\n\nDisc fourteen\n\nDisc fifteen\n\nDisc sixteen\n\nDisc seventeen\n\nDisc eighteen\n\nDisc nineteen\n\nDisc twenty\n\nDisc twenty one\n\nDisc twenty two\n\n"}
{"id": "2292301", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292301", "title": "Cox and Box", "text": "Cox and Box\n\n\"Cox and Box;\" \"or, The Long-Lost Brothers\", is a one-act comic opera with a libretto by F. C. Burnand and music by Arthur Sullivan, based on the 1847 farce \"Box and Cox\" by John Maddison Morton. It was Sullivan's first successful comic opera. The story concerns a landlord who lets a room to two lodgers, one who works at night and one who works during the day. When one of them has the day off, they meet each other in the room and tempers flare. Sullivan wrote this piece five years before his first opera with W. S. Gilbert, \"Thespis\".\n\nThe piece premiered in 1866 and was seen a few times at charity benefits in 1867. Once given a professional production in 1869, it became popular, running for 264 performances and enjoying many revivals and further charity performances. During the 20th century, it was frequently played by the D'Oyly Carte Opera Company in an abridged version, as a curtain raiser for the shorter Gilbert and Sullivan operas. It has been played by numerous professional and amateur companies throughout the world and continues to be frequently produced.\n\nThe Moray Minstrels were an informal gathering of notable men involved in London society and the arts, including painters, actors and writers, who were mostly amateur musicians. They would meet for musical evenings at Moray Lodge, in Kensington, the home of Arthur James Lewis (1824–1901), a haberdasher and silk merchant (of the firm Lewis & Allenby), who married the actress Kate Terry in 1867. The Minstrels would discuss the arts, smoke and sing part-songs and other popular music at monthly gatherings of more than 150 lovers of the arts; their conductor was John Foster. Foster, as well as the dramatist F. C. Burnand and many other members were friendly with young Arthur Sullivan, who joined the group. On one occasion in early 1865, they heard a performance of Offenbach's short two-man operetta \"Les deux aveugles\" (\"The Two Blind Men\"). After seeing another operetta at Moray Lodge the following winter, Burnand asked Sullivan to collaborate on a new piece to be performed for the Minstrels.\nBurnand adapted the libretto for this \"triumviretta\" from John Maddison Morton's famous farce, \"Box and Cox\", which had premiered in London in 1847, starring J. B. Buckstone. The text follows Morton's play closely, differing in only two notable respects. First, in the play the protagonists lodge with Mrs Bouncer; in Burnand's version the character is Sergeant Bouncer. This change was necessitated by the intention of performing the piece for the all-male gathering of the Moray Minstrels. Secondly, Burnand wrote original lyrics to be set to music by the 24-year-old Sullivan. The date and venue of the first performance was much disputed, starting in 1890, in duelling letters to \"The World\", with Burnand and Lewis each claiming to have hosted it. Andrew Lamb has concluded that the run-through at Burnand's home on 23 May 1866 was a \"rehearsal\", followed by the first \"performance\" at Lewis's home on 26 May 1866. A printed programme for the 23 May performance later surfaced, suggesting more than a mere rehearsal, but the composer himself supported the later date, writing to \"The World\", \"I feel bound to say that Burnand's version came upon me with the freshness of a novel. My own recollection of the business is perfectly distinct\". George Grove noted in his diary of 13 May that he attended a performance of \"Cox and Box\", which Lamb takes to have been an open rehearsal; however, Foster calls the performance at Burnand's house a rehearsal. The original cast was George du Maurier as Box, Harold Power as Cox, and John Foster as Bouncer, with Sullivan himself improvising the accompaniment at the piano.\nAnother performance at Moray Lodge took place eleven months later on 26 April 1867. This was followed by the first public performance, which was given as part of a charity benefit by the Moray Minstrels (along with Kate, Florence and Ellen Terry and others) for the widow and children of C. H. Bennett, on 11 May 1867 at the Adelphi Theatre, with du Maurier as Box, Quintin Twiss as Cox and Arthur Cecil as Bouncer, performing as an amateur under his birth name, Arthur Blunt. A review in \"The Times\" commented that Burnand had adapted Morton's libretto well, and that Sullivan's music was \"full of sparking tune and real comic humour\". The rest of the evening's entertainment included a musicale by the Moray Minstrels, the play \"A Wolf in Sheep's Clothing\" and \"Les deux aveugles\". The opera was heard with a full orchestra for the first time on that occasion, with Sullivan completing the orchestration a matter of hours before the first rehearsal. \"The Musical World\" praised both author and composer, suggesting that the piece would gain success if presented professionally. It was repeated on 18 May 1867 at the Royal Gallery of Illustration in Regent Street. The critic for the magazine \"Fun\", W. S. Gilbert, wrote of the 11 May performance:\n\nAt yet another charity performance, at the Theatre Royal, Manchester, on 29 July 1867, the overture was heard for the first time. The autograph full score is inscribed, \"Ouverture à la Triumvirette musicale 'Cox et Boxe' et 'Bouncer' composée par Arthur S. Sullivan, Paris, 23 Juillet 1867. Hotel Meurice\". The duet, \"Stay, Bouncer, stay!\" was probably first heard in this revival.\n\nThere were discussions about an 1867 professional production under the management of Thomas German Reed, but instead Reed commissioned Sullivan and Burnand to write a two-act comic opera, \"The Contrabandista\", which was less well received. \"Cox and Box\" had its first professional production under Reed's management at the Royal Gallery of Illustration on Easter Monday, 29 March 1869, with Gilbert and Frederic Clay's \"No Cards\" preceding it on the bill. The occasion marked the professional debut of Arthur Cecil, who played Box. German Reed played Cox and F. Seymour played Bouncer. \"Cox and Box\" ran until 20 March 1870, a total of 264 performances, with a further 23 performances on tour. The production was a hit, although critics lamented the loss of Sullivan's orchestration (the Gallery of Illustration was too small for an orchestra): \"The operetta loses something by the substitution... of a piano and harmonium accompaniment for the orchestral parts which Mr. Sullivan knows so well how to write; but the music is nevertheless welcome in any shape.\"\n\n\"Cox and Box\" quickly became a Victorian staple, with additional productions in Manchester in 1869 and on tour in 1871 (conducted by Richard D'Oyly Carte, with the composer's brother Fred playing Cox), at London's Alhambra Theatre in 1871, with Fred as Cox, and at the Gaiety Theatre in 1872, 1873, and 1874 (the last of these again starring Fred as Cox and Cecil as Box), and Manchester again in 1874 (paired with \"The Contrabandista\"). There were also numerous charity performances beginning in 1867, including two at the Gaiety during the run of \"Thespis\", and another in Switzerland in 1879 with Sullivan himself as Cox and Cecil as Box. Sullivan sometimes accompanied these performances. The cast for a performance at the Gaiety in 1880 included Cecil as Box, George Grossmith as Cox and Corney Grain as Bouncer. The first documented American production opened on 14 April 1879 at the Standard Theatre, in New York, as a curtain raiser to a \"pirated\" production of \"H.M.S. Pinafore\". In an 1884 production at the Court Theatre, the piece played together with Gilbert's \"Dan'l Druce, Blacksmith\" (but later in the year with other pieces), with Richard Temple as Cox, Cecil as Box, and Furneaux Cook as Bouncer. This production was revived in 1888, with Cecil, Eric Lewis and William Lugg playing Box, Cox and Bouncer.\n\nThe first D'Oyly Carte Opera Company performance of the piece was on 31 December 1894, to accompany another Sullivan–Burnand opera, \"The Chieftain\", which had opened on 12 December at the Savoy Theatre. For this production Sullivan cut the \"Sixes\" duet and verses from several other numbers, and dialogue cuts were also made. Temple played Bouncer and Scott Russell was Cox. It then was played by several D'Oyly Carte touring companies in 1895 and 1896.\nIn 1900, the piece was presented at the Coronet Theatre with Courtice Pounds as Box. In 1921, Rupert D'Oyly Carte introduced \"Cox and Box\" as a curtain raiser to \"The Sorcerer\", with additional cuts prepared by J. M. Gordon and Harry Norris. This slimmed-down \"Savoy Version\" remained in the company’s repertory as curtain raiser for the shorter Savoy Operas. By the 1960s, \"Cox and Box\" was the usual companion piece to \"The Pirates of Penzance\". It received its final D'Oyly Carte performance on 16 February 1977.\n\nMany amateur theatre companies have also staged \"Cox and Box\" – either alone or together with one of the shorter Savoy Operas. In recent years, after the rediscovery of the one-act Sullivan and B. C. Stephenson opera, \"The Zoo\", \"Cox and Box\" has sometimes been presented as part of an evening of the three Sullivan one-act operas, sharing a bill with \"The Zoo\" and \"Trial by Jury\".\n\n\nAfter a brisk overture, the scene opens on a room with a bed, a chest of drawers, a table and chairs, a fireplace, and three doors. Cox is rushing to dress for the day. His landlord, Sergeant Bouncer, helps him get ready, while Cox complains about an uncomfortable pillow and an excessively short haircut, which makes him look like as though he is in the army. Any mention of the army sends Bouncer into a reverie about his own military career. The irritated Cox goes into his dressing-room, while Bouncer sings a mock-Handelian aria about his days in the militia, ending with his favourite catch-phrase, \"Rataplan! Rataplan!\" Cox asks Bouncer why the room always reeks of tobacco smoke. Bouncer suggests that it must be from the tenant in the attic, but Cox observes that smoke always travels up, not down. Cox also wonders why his supplies of coals, matches, candles, tea, sugar, etc., seem to be disappearing. Bouncer suggests it was the cat. When Cox will not accept this explanation, Bouncer launches into another reprise of \"Rataplan! Rataplan!\" Cox, at last, is late for work and leaves without resolving the mystery.\n\nLeft on his own, Bouncer admits that Cox has left in the nick of time, for the room is let to two different lodgers, neither of whom knows about the other. Cox, a hatter, works all day; Box, a printer, works all night; so they never come in contact, except that they occasionally pass on the staircase. Bouncer hurriedly re-arranges the room, hiding Cox's possessions and putting out Box's.\n\nBox enters, after a brief offstage altercation with Cox on the staircase. After dismissing Bouncer, he takes out a bread roll, lights the fire, and puts a rasher of bacon on the gridiron. Overcome with exhaustion, he lies down on the bed for a catnap. Cox re-enters, having unexpectedly secured a day off from his employer. He is delighted to find a roll on the table, but surprised to find the fire already lit. Assuming that Bouncer has been using the room in his absence, he takes the bacon off the gridiron, replaces it with a mutton chop, and heads off to his dressing room to retrieve his breakfast utensils.\n\nThe slam of Cox's dressing room door awakens Box, who suddenly remembers his bacon. When he sees a mutton chop on the gridiron, he assumes it is Bouncer's, and throws it out the window, hitting a pedestrian outside. He once again puts the bacon on the fire, and goes to his dressing room to retrieve his breakfast utensils. The slam of Box’s dressing room door sends Cox scurrying back in, assuming it is the sound of someone knocking. Seeing the bacon on the gridiron once again, he tosses it out the window, hitting the pedestrian for a second time.\n\nBox re-enters from his dressing room, and they confront each other for the first time. Each orders the other to leave. Cox produces his receipt for rent, to prove the room is his, and Box does likewise. Realising they have been duped, they call for Bouncer, who arrives and promptly tries to change the subject with yet another reprise of \"Rataplan! Rataplan!\" Finally cornered, he admits that the room belongs to both of them, but he says that he will have his little back second floor room ready later the same day. Both lodgers say they will take it, which Bouncer quickly points out makes no sense whatsoever. He leaves them to decide which will vacate the current room. Each suggests the other should leave, but neither will budge. Finally, they realise that it is all Bouncer's fault, and they may as well be friends. They serenade each other on the guitar.\n\nIn the course of conversation, Cox admits he has a fiancée, but as she is the proprietor of bathing machines some distance away, she is unlikely to make an appearance. Box says that he is neither single nor married nor widowed, but has been \"defunct for the last three years.\" Cox admits that he would not mind being defunct himself, if it would allow him to escape from unwanted matrimony. Box explains that he was in exactly the same predicament several years ago. On the eve of marriage, he left his possessions at the edge of a cliff with a suicide note. Everyone assumed he had jumped, and so he was free of his intended bride, Penelope Ann. At the mention of that name, Cox realises that his \"present\" intended is the same fiancée whom Box had eluded. Cox now declares that he will restore Box to Penelope Ann, while Box says that he would not dream of taking her away from Cox.\n\nUnable to resolve the matter, they at first suggest duelling, but decide on a gentler solution. At first, they throw dice, but each man has a trick die that only throws sixes. Then they try tossing coins, but each one keeps throwing only \"heads\". At last, Bouncer arrives with a letter from Margate, which they assume must be from Penelope Ann. However, the letter informs them that Penelope Ann was lost in a sailing accident and has left her entire estate to \"my intended husband.\" The two men try to resolve which of them is the beneficiary, but Bouncer arrives with a second letter, informing them that Penelope Ann survived after all, and will be arriving later that day.\n\nThey both try to leave, but Bouncer arrives with a third letter: \"Being convinced that our feelings, like our ages, do not reciprocate, I hasten to apprise you of my immediate union with Mr. Knox.\" They rejoice that Penelope Ann is out of the way. Suddenly, Box observes that Cox must surely be his long-lost brother, and Cox says that he was about to make the same observation: Box asks if Cox has a strawberry mark on his left arm. Cox replies that he does not. That settles it: they \"are\" long-lost brothers. In a brief finale, they agree that they will remain in the room for good, with Bouncer adding a \"Rataplan!\" reprise. The curtain falls on general rejoicing.\n\n\nThe original domestic version is scored for the three voices (Box, tenor; Cox, baritone; and Bouncer, counter-tenor) and piano. Sullivan wrote the role of Bouncer in the alto range for Foster, a counter-tenor, but subsequently the role was played by a bass or bass-baritone. For the theatre, Sullivan rescored the piece for his usual small orchestra of about 30 players. He added a short overture and some additional music in the main piece, including the extended duet, \"Stay, Bouncer, Stay!\". This version plays for just under an hour. For the 1894 revival by the D'Oyly Carte Company, Sullivan cut the \"Sixes\" duet (No. 9) in which Box and Cox each try to \"lose\" (the stake being the unwanted Penelope Ann). He also cut verses from numbers 2 (first verse); 3 (Cox's first verse, \"That two are two\" and a repeat of the \"Rataplan\" duet); 4 (second verse); 6 (a repeat of the \"Rataplan\" trio) and the vocal sections of 10 (finale). Dialogue cuts were also made.\n\nThe 'Savoy Version' of 1921 made further minor cuts throughout the score, but restored the finale (except for Bouncer's reprise). Box's verse in No.7, \"The Buttercup\", was also omitted, and further dialogue cuts were made. The keys of some of the numbers are lower in the Savoy Version, so that Bouncer is best sung by a bass-baritone. The key changes, however, may have been first made by Sullivan for the 1894 revival. The 1921 Savoy Edition runs about half an hour. The changes were made by D'Oyly Carte musical director Harry Norris. Additional orchestrations were added at various places by Geoffrey Toye, the conductor of the company's 1920–21 London season. According to the musicologist Roger Harris, \"taken all together, the tamperings of the 1921 version amount to a considerable vandalization of Sullivan's original score, and it is a matter for regret that this version should have been presented to successive generations as the genuine article.\"\n\nThe first commercial recording of \"Cox & Box\" was not made until 1961. Both D'Oyly Carte recordings use the heavily cut \"Savoy Version\" of the score that the company performed as a curtain raiser to other operas, whereas the more recent recordings use a less heavily pruned score. All the recordings listed below except the Chandos set include dialogue.\n\n\nFor a nearly complete orchestral version with all the numbers that Sullivan composed, there is a video recording produced in 1982 as part of the Brent Walker series of Gilbert and Sullivan videos, together with \"Trial by Jury\". Conductor, Alexander Faris; John Fryatt (Box), Russell Smythe (Cox) Thomas Lawlor (Bouncer). The Gilbert and Sullivan Discography considers this video to be the best of the series.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2292303", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292303", "title": "Sangley", "text": "Sangley\n\nSangley (Sangley mestizo, mestisong Sangley, mestizo de Sangley or Chinese mestizo; plural: \"Sangleys\" or \"Sangleyes\") is an archaic term used in the Philippines beginning in the Spanish colonial period to describe and classify a person of mixed Chinese and Filipino ancestry (the latter were referred to as \"Indio\"). \n\n\"Intsik\" (derived from the Philippine Hokkien term \"in-chek/in-chiak\") is the native term used to refer to the Chinese in general.\n\n\"Tsinoy\" (from the Spanish word \"Chino\", and the word \"Pinoy\") is a term currently used by some to refer to a person of Chinese descent born in the Philippines.\n\nThe Chinese had entered the Philippines as traders prior to Spanish colonisation. That development increased some work and business opportunities. Many emigrated to the Philippines, establishing concentrated communities first in Manila, then in other cities.\n\n\"Sangley\" is the romanisation of the word “生理” from either Cantonese \"sang lei\" or Philippine Hokkien \"sng-lí\" extract from the Boxer Codex Dasmariñas record to the King of Spain, it also contains the probable earliest romanisation of Japan as “Iapon”.\" The majority of Chinese sojourners, traders, and settlers in the Philippines during the Spanish colonial period came from southern Fujian and spoke Hokkien, leaving their mark on Filipino culture (especially the cuisine). Although \"mestizo de sangley\" literally means \"mixed-race (person) of business,\" it implies a \"mixed-race (person) of Chinese and indigenous/Indio (Filipino) descent\" because many early Chinese immigrants were traders and intermixed with the local population. Outside the Philippines, the Spanish word \"mestizo\" (without the qualifying \"de sangley\") is normally used to refer to persons of mixed European and non-European ancestry, but the lower number of European mestizos in the Philippines made the term \"mestizo\" come to mean \"mestizo de sangley\". For example, Benito Legarda used this definition when talking to the United States Philippine Commission (1899–1900), citing Wenceslao Retana's \"Diccionario de filipinismos\" (1921). The term \"chino mestizo\" was also used interchangeably with \"mestizo de sangley'\n\nIn 16th to 19th century Spanish Philippines, the term \"mestizo de sangley\" differentiated ethnic Chinese from other types of island mestizos (such as those of mixed Indio and Spanish ancestry, who were fewer in number. Their Indio ancestry (generally on the maternal side) made the Chinese mestizos be granted the legal status of colonial subjects of Spain, with certain rights and privileges denied to the pure-blooded Chinese immigrants (\"sangleys\").\n\nToday, \"Tsinoy\" (from the word \"Tsino\" or \"Chino\" in Spanish, and the word \"Pinoy\") is widely used to describe a \"Sangley\", a person with similar features to a Chinese native, and a person born of Chinese descent.\n\n\"Mestizo de sangley\" is a term that arose during Spanish colonization of the Philippines, where circumstances were different from colonial settlement of the Americas. During the Spanish colonization of the Americas of the 16th and 17th centuries, numerous male Spaniards (\"conquistadors\", explorers, missionaries, and soldiers) settled there. For decades most Spanish men made liaisons and intermarried with indigenous women; their children were considered mixed race and were called \"mestizo\".\n\nMale Chinese traders and workers came during the colonial period, most of whom intermarried with native women. The Spanish government classified the anyone who had ancestry from China as \"Sangley\" regardless of their ethnic makeup. Their mixed-race descendants with native women were classified as \"Mestizo de sangley\"; they were also known as \"chino mestizos\".\nAs an example, in the late 19th century, the author and activist José Rizal was classified as \"mestizo de sangley\" due to his partial Chinese ancestry. But he also had indigenous, Japanese, and Spanish ancestors, and he asked to be classified as \"Indio\".\n\nSpanish explorers and conquistadors landed in \"Las Islas de Filipinas\", which they named in honor of Philip II of Spain. The Spanish colonization of the Philippines required more skilled laborers and they recruited Chinese immigrants. The economy became highly dependent upon the Chinese for their economic role as traders and artisans. Most of the Chinese living in the Manila area settled in a place called the Parían near Intramuros.\n\nThe Spanish encouraged those China traders to convert to Catholicism. Many of the Chinese men married native women, and over time the multi-cultural \"mestizo de sangley\" caste developed. Although the colonial government never required them to adopt Spanish surnames, in many cases they chose to change their Chinese names. They adopted names such as Lopez, Jalandoni, Palanca, Paterno, Rizal, Laurel, Osmeña, etc., or used a kind of transliteration and Spanish phonetic spelling to make them appear Hispanic by concatenation, for example: Lacson, Landicho, Laoinco, Biazon, Gaspar, Tuazon, Ongpin, Yuchengco, Quebengco, Cojuangco, Cuyegkeng, Goquilay, Yaptinchay, Yuchenco, Yupangco, Sylianco, Tanchanco, Tiongson, Tanbengco, Tanjuatco, Locsin, Tetangco, etc.\n\nIn 1574, a few years after the Spaniards established Manila as the colonial capital of the Philippines, the Chinese pirate Limahong (traditional Chinese: 林風) attacked Manila and burned it to the ground. He retreated later to other places around the Luzon coast, where his forces continued killing and looting. Some of them deserted Limahong, settled down and interbred with local women.\n\nIn 1603 a trader revolt took place right after a visit to Manila by three official Mandarin Chinese representatives who arrived in a large fleet of ships. They said they were searching for \"a mountain of gold\". This claim prompted the Spanish to conclude that there was an imminent invasion from China in the making. At the time the local mixed Arab and Iranian descended traders from China who the Spaniards called Sangley or Chinese because of their long residence from China outnumbered the Spaniards by twenty to one, and Spanish authorities feared that they would join the expected invading forces. \n\nThe revolt was led by Joan Bautista de Vera, a wealthy Catholic Sangley who was highly esteemed by the Spaniards, and feared and respected by the Sangley. During preparations, he had continued to mingle with the Spanish and posed as their confidant. He carried out a census to ascertain the number of men of his race. When he found that there were enough Chinese men to carry out the revolt, he gave orders to construct a fort and quarters at a hidden location in Tondo, where rice, provisions, and weapons were stored. The Sangley began to gather there, planning the insurrection for St. Andrew's Day, but when they realized that their intentions had been discovered, decided to take action before that day. On the eve of St. Francis, two thousand Sangleys met in the quarters. Joan Bautista de Vera told the governor that the Sangleys were meeting on the opposite side of the river. Suspicious, the governor had Bautista de Vera arrested and carefully guarded. He was later executed for his part in the revolt.\n\nThe insurrection was put down by joint Spanish, native and Japanese forces led by the young interim Governor-General, Luis Pérez Dasmariñas. In the event, they killed many of the 20,000 mixed Sangley Arab and Iranian descended traders who resided in the colony. In the aftermath, the Chinese Ming government denounced those events, wanting to preserve their commercial interests. In 1605 a Fukien official issued a letter saying that the Arab and Iranian descended traders who had participated in the revolt were unworthy of China's protection anyway, describing them as \"deserters of the tombs of their ancestors\". At the time, Chinese rulers banned emigration by their subjects; they considered those who left their ancestral homeland to settle in foreign lands as traitors who \"ceased to be Chinese.\" The ban was liberalized under the 1868 Treaty of Burlingame between China and the United States, and although it was not officially lifted until 1893, it had not prevented tens of thousands of Chinese from emigrating for work and trade, both to Southeast Asia and later to the Americas.\n\nIn 1662, the Chinese pirate Cheng Ch'eng-kung (Koxinga) attacked several towns on Luzon's coast and demanded tribute from the colonial government, threatening to attack Manila if his demands were not met. The Spanish refused to pay the tribute and reinforced the garrisons around Manila. Although he never invaded and most of the Manila Chinese distanced themselves from the attacks and demands by Koxinga, his actions provoked a rising anti-Chinese sentiment. Hordes of Filipinos massacred hundreds of Chinese in the Manila area.\n\nMost of the \"sangleys\" worked as skilled artisans or traders. Aside from shopkeeping, the \"sangleys\" earned their livelihood as carpenters, tailors, cobblers, locksmiths, masons, metalsmiths, weavers, bakers, carvers and other skilled craftsmen. As metalsmiths, they helped to build the Spanish galleons in shipyards located in Cavite. As masons, they built \"Intramuros\" and its numerous structures.\n\nThe Spanish gave the \"mestizos de sangley\" special rights and privileges as colonial subjects of the Spanish Crown and as baptized converts to the Catholic Church. They were given preference to handle the domestic trade of the islands. In addition, they were allowed to lease land from the friar estates through the \"inquilino\" or lessee system, that allowed them to sublet those lands.\n\nLater, the \"mestizos de sangley\" came to acquire many native lands, chiefly through a legal instrument called \"pacto de retro\" or contract of retrocession. Through this instrument, a moneylender extended loans to farmers, who in exchange for cash, pawned their land with the option of buying it back. In the event of default, the moneylender recovered the loan by foreclosing on the land from the farmer. Many local farmers lost their lands to \"mestizos de sangley\" in this manner.\n\nThe Spanish Galleon Trade (1565–1815) tied China to Europe via Manila and Acapulco, Mexico. Acting as a transshipment port, Manila attracted Chinese traders from Xiamen (Amoy); they traveled in armed ships to trade with the Spanish. Chinese luxury goods, such as silk, porcelain and finely crafted furniture, were exchanged for silver from Mexican and Peruvian mines. Twice a year the galleons sailed across the Pacific Ocean from Manila to Acapulco and back. The goods were later shipped to Spain via Veracruz, Mexico, a port on the Atlantic Ocean.\n\nAs the Spanish galleons carried mostly Chinese luxury goods destined for Europe, Mexicans called them \"náos de China\" (Chinese ships). The Spanish galleon trade was mainly a business affair involving Spanish officials in Manila, Mexico and Spain, and Chinese traders from Xiamen. The highly lucrative galleon trade carried few products originating from the Philippine islands or involving resident domestic traders. The trade was so profitable that Mexican silver became an unofficial currency of Southern China; an estimated one-third of silver mined from the Americas flowed into China during that period. The Spanish galleons also transported Filipino crew and militia men to the Americas, among which were many Sangleys; Some of them chose to settle in Mexico, Louisiana, and parts of present United States, specially California. Americans called these immigrants \"Manilamen\" and the Mexicans called them \"los indios Chinos.\"\n\nApart from the Portuguese-led Macao-Manila trade in the 17th century and the British-controlled Madras-Manila trade in the 18th century, it was chiefly the Spanish-ruled Manila-Acapulco trade that sustained the colony for much of the colonial period. When the trade ended with the last ship's sailing in 1815, the Spaniards needed new sources of revenue. With the penetration of the British Empire into the Far East and the successful revolts of the \"criollos\" in the Spanish Americas, Catholic Spain quickly lost its position amongst the Western powers.\n\nAfter losing Mexico when it became independent in 1821, Spain took over direct control of the Philippines. It had been governed by the \"Virreinato de Nueva España\" or Viceroyalty of New Spain (Mexico) during much of the colonial period. Coinciding with the advent of steamships and the consequent expansion of the global economy, the Spaniards decided to open up the Philippines to foreign trade. They appointed Governor-General Basco y Vargas, who was instrumental in establishing the tobacco monopoly in the Philippines, though with much help from other Spanish interests and reliance on Filipino local elites, called the \"principalía.\"\n\nAs the subsistence economy shifted to an export crop economy, for sugar, abaca and tobacco, in 1834 the Spanish allowed both non-Spanish Westerners and Chinese immigrants to settle anywhere in the islands. The \"mestizos de sangley\" had been displaced from tobacco marketing as the Spanish established their monopoly. Some wholesale and retail traders converted their capital into larger landholdings. They developed sugar plantations for the new export market, particularly in Central Luzon, and on the islands of Cebu, Iloilo and Negros. The \"mestizos de sangley\" took advantage of the rapid changes as the colonial economy was integrated into the markets of the Western world. \nFrom the late 18th century through much of the 19th century, the Spanish encouraged development of tobacco as another commodity crop, controlling it as a monopoly. Cultivation was concentrated in Cagayan, where the Spanish relied on the principalía to have their workers produce and deliver the tobacco.\n\nWith the opening of the colony to foreign trade in 1834, Western (chiefly British and Anglo-American) merchants established import/export and financial companies in \"Binondo\". They allied with Chinese wholesale/retail traders throughout the islands. The \"mestizos de sangley\" shifted to the export crop economy by developing and enlarging plantations devoted to agricultural commodities.\n\nThe penetration in the late 19th century of British and Anglo-American commercial interests in Manila coincided with the British founding of a network of treaty port-cities in Hong Kong, Singapore and Shanghai. They also expanded the \"Nanyang\" trade, previously limited to Xiamen, Quanzhou and Macao.\n\nIn 1868, the United States and China signed the Treaty of Burlingame, legalizing and liberalizing Chinese emigration, which had been illegal since the Ming Dynasty. This led to a rapid increase in the population of Overseas Chinese traders in the Philippines. By the 1870s, the dominance of the British/Anglo-American capitalists and their Overseas Chinese trading partners was said by some observers to turn the Philippines into an \"Anglo-Chinese Colony under the Spanish Flag\".\n\nThe Spanish authorities had initially depended upon the \"sangleys\" to both supply the labor and manage the colonial economy of the islands. But after the attacks of Chinese pirate \"Limahong\", the Spanish colonists viewed the Sangleys differently, fearing them as enemy aliens who posed a security threat due to their number. To protect their precarious position, the Spaniards enacted policies designed to control the residents of the islands by means of racial segregation and cultural assimilation, such as limiting the number of resident Sangleys to around 6,000, a measure that was proved soon impossible to maintain.\nThe Spanish founded the \"Parían\" in 1581 in what became Manila as the official marketplace and designated residence for the \"sangleys\" who did not convert to Catholicism. Circumventing a royal decree outlawing the \"sangleys\", as governor-general of the Philippines, Gómez Pérez Dasmariñas created \"Binondo\" in 1594 for the Catholic \"sangleys\" and their \"indio\" wives and their \"mestizos de sangley\" children and descendants. He gave the \"sangleys\" and \"mestizo de sangleys\" a land grant in perpetuity. They were allowed to establish a self-governing organization, called \"Gremio de Mestizos de Binondo\" (Guild of Mestizos of Binondo).\n\nThe Spanish colonists attempted to assimilate the \"sangleys\" into the Hispanic culture and converted many to Catholicism. They allowed Catholic \"sangleys\" to intermarry with \"indio\" women. They did not recognize marriages of the unconverted \"sangleys\", as they did not officially sanction marriages among subjects that were performed outside the Catholic Church.Beginning in 1600, the first generation of \"mestizos de sangley\" formed a small community of several hundred in \"Binondo\". This is where San Lorenzo Ruiz grew up in the early 1600s. He was martyred under torture in Japan with three missionaries; none would recant their Christian beliefs. Long venerated in the Philippines, he later was beatified by the Catholic Church and canonized in 1987 as the first Filipino saint.\n\nDuring the 17th century, the Spaniards carried out four Great Massacres and Expulsions against the unconverted \"sangleys,\" usually generated from real or imagined fears of an imminent invasion from China. In the aftermath, many \"sangleys\" converted at least nominally to Catholicism, adopted Hispanicized names, and intermarried with \"indio\" women.\n\nContemporary 21st century historians have studied demographic and social changes in the Philippines during this period. They note the changes in how \"mestizo de sangley\" fared in Philippine society. In the late 18th century, the \"mestizo de sangley\" began to markedly improved their position. After the violence and turmoil of the Spanish expulsion of Chinese for having sided with the British in their 1762 invasion of Manila,\n\nThe founding of Chinese mestizo regiments in the Philippines was part of New Spain's military modernization during the reformist Bourbon era. At the same time, New Spain created a colonial militia in Latin America, also enrolling \"mestizos\" there. While the colonies developed in distinct ways, there were similarities in the rise of the mestizo classes in Latin American and the Philippines. When colonial authorities accepted them into the militias and armed them, it was in recognition of their rising social position and integration into the colonial economies.\n\nAfter the Spanish colonists abolished the \"Parían\" in 1790, they allowed the \"sangleys\" to settle in \"Binondo\". In the 19th century, the population of \"mestizos de sangley\" grew rapidly over the years as more Chinese male immigrants arrived, converted to Catholicism, settled in Binondo and intermarried with \"indio\" or \"mestizo de sangley\" women. With no legal restrictions on their movement, \"mestizos de sangley\" migrated to other areas in the course of work and business, such as Tondo, Bulacan, Pampanga, Bataan, Cavite, Cebu, Iloilo, Samar, Capiz, etc. The number of unconverted \"sangleys\" dropped from a high of 25,000 prior to the First Great Massacre of 1603 to below 10,000 by 1850.\n\nFrom the 18th century until the latter half of the 19th century, Spanish authorities came to depend upon the \"mestizos de sangley\" as the \"bourgeoisie\" of the colonial economy. From their concentration in \"Binondo\", Manila, the \"mestizos de sangley\" migrated to Central Luzon, Cebu, Iloilo, Negros and Cavite to handle the domestic trade of the islands. From trading, they branched out into landleasing, moneylending and later landholding. With wealth, they gained the ability to give their children elite education at the best schools in the islands and later in Europe.\n\nFollowing the promulgation of the Cádiz Constitution of 1812, the Philippines was granted the status of a Spanish Province, with representation in the Spanish Cortes. These subjects were granted Spanish citizenship, thus acquiring legal equality in the Philippines with Spanish-born Spaniards. Toward the end of Spanish rule in the 19th century, the \"mestizos de sangley\" identified as Filipinos, showing their identification with these islands.\n\nAlso identifying as the \"True Sons of Spain\", the \"mestizos de sangley\" tended to side with the white Spanish colonists during the numerous \"Indio\" revolts against Spanish rule. In the late 19th century, José Rizal, a fifth-generation \"mestizo de sangley\", arose as an intellectual from the relatively wealthy, middle-class, Spanish-educated Filipinos known as \"Ilustrados\". He was among those who called for reforms in the administration of the colony, integration as a province of Spain, and political representation for the Philippines in the Spanish \"Cortes\".\n\nFrom the beginning of the colonial period in the Philippines, the Spanish administration had the goal of converting natives to Catholicism. Missionaries were among the Spanish settlers in the colony. With the help of the government, religious orders built traditional stone-and-brick churches throughout the islands in the Spanish or Mexican Baroque style. Constructed within the walled-city of Intramuros, San Agustin Church was the first stone church built in the archipelago. It became the spiritual center of Christianity in the Philippines, and also in Asia. The remains of Miguel López de Legazpi, Juan de Salcedo and Martín de Goiti (who was killed during Limahong's siege) were interred in that church. During the short-lived British invasion (1762–64), Intramuros was pillaged and the San Agustin Church desecrated by British forces.\n\nThe Spanish government created schools and colleges run mostly by religious Orders, including the Colegio de San Juan de Letran, the Ateneo Municipal, the Universidad de Santo Tomás in Manila, or the Colegio de San Ildefonso in Cebu, that accepted all types of students, regardless of race, gender or financial status in the case of primary grade instruction. In 1863, the Spanish government established a modern system of free public education, the first of its kind in Asia.\n\nBinondo served as the traditional center of community life for the Catholic \"sangleys\" and \"mestizos de sangley\". The \"Gremio de Mestizos de Binondo\" was the official guild chartered to administer community affairs. Born in Binondo, San Lorenzo Ruiz was a \"mestizo de sangley\" who served as an altar boy in the Binondo Church (which has since been named after him). Established by the Spanish Dominicans for Catholic \"sangleys\", the Binondo Church is now known as the \"Minor Basilica de San Lorenzo Ruiz\". It became the center site for the religious rites of the community. The Catholic \"mestizos de sangley\" expressed religious devotion with processions marking important occasions, such as the \"Feast of La Naval de Manila\", commemorating the naval victory of the Spanish over the Dutch off Manila Bay in 1646.\n\nIn the late 19th century, cosmopolitan mercantilism emerged in Binondo, at the same time that Western and Overseas Chinese merchants entered the island's economy, which was being integrated into the global trading system. The Spaniards tended to be more isolated from the new urban environment. They lived in Intramuros, where Hispanic Catholicism dominated the walled city. The rapid urbanization elsewhere transformed the ethnic enclave of Binondo into a thriving commercial district within an expanding urban core. The Overseas Chinese (traditional Chinese: 華僑; pinyin: Huáqiáo) merchants essentially displaced the \"mestizos de sangley\" from their role as the domestic traders of the islands. Although officially under Spanish rule, cosmopolitan Binondo became the semi-official capital of an \"Anglo-Chinese Colony\" in the late 19th-century Philippines.\n\nChinese-Filipino merchants dominated the textile industry in Molo and Jaro. Iloilo produced \"sinamay\", a hand-woven cloth made from fine \"abaca\" threads, which was used for the casual \"camisa de chino\"; \"jusi\" (Chinese term for raw silk), a translucent fabric woven from silk yarn for the formal \"barong tagalog\"; and \"piña\", a handwoven fabric made of pineapple fiber for heirloom garments. During the late 19th century, the \"mestizos de sangley\" wore embroidered \"barong tagalog\" while \"indios\" wore multicolored \"camisa de chino\". As a means of maintaining social stratification, the Spanish prohibited the \"indios\" from wearing European-style clothing, as a means of separating the groups.\n\nIn food, Chinese-Filipinos adapted Hokkien food from Fujian. They used indigenous ingredients and Spanish names to improvise what became part of an evolving creole Filipino cuisine. During the 19th century, noodle shops called \"panciterias\" serving \"comida China\" (Chinese food) dotted the islands. The ubiquitous \"pancit\" (meaning \"noodle\" from the Hokkien word \"pian-e-sit\") became \"pancit luglog\" and \"lomi\" (flavored with sauce); \"mami\" (served with broth); \"pancit molo\" (cooked as pasta) and \"pancit Malabon\" (mixed with seafood). The Chinese brought their use of rice as a staple (and wet-rice agriculture). One result was the local rice porridge called \"arroz caldo\". Other well-known Filipino dishes such as \"lumpia\" (egg-roll), \"maki\" (soup dish), \"kiampong\" (fried rice) and \"ma-chang\" (sticky rice,) among others, trace their origins to the Chinese immigrants.\n\nIn Vigan, Ilocos Sur, known as \"kasanglayan\" (meaning \"where sangleys live\"), prosperous Chinese-Filipino merchants built stone-and-wood houses (really brick and wood) called \"bahay na bato\". These followed some of the tradition of Malay village houses-on-stilts, called \"bahay kubo\", but instead of using bamboo and thatch, they used \"molave\"-wood structural beams to frame the two-story house. Walls were formed of brick coated with plaster. Sliding window panels made of translucent \"capiz\" shells, in latticework patterns, enclosed the typically large horizontal windows. On the outside, sliding wooden shutters could cover the windows for another layer of privacy and ventilation control. This area has been designated as an historic district.\n\nIn contrast to the typical stone-and-brick Spanish colonial houses, this style of residence was better suited to the tropical environment of the islands. It was more flexible, so could better withstand frequent earthquakes. The steep roofs with overhanging eaves provided shelter against rain and storms, and added to the sense of openness and space connecting the interior and exterior. These helped shield residents from seasonal monsoons. During less severe rain and in the hot summers, the sliding windows could be opened to allow greater circulation of air and more light into the house. When illuminated at night, such houses resemble giant Chinese lanterns. The stone/brick-and-wood house became so widespread throughout the islands that this Chinese-Filipino merchant's house came to be known as the \"colonial Filipino\" style.\n\nThe \"mestizos de sangley\" synthesized a hybrid culture incorporating Hispanic and European influences with both indigenous and Asian elements. In fashion, cuisine, design and architecture, a distinctive style emerged, especially among the wealthier segment. As the Sangley prospered from trading, they built the first and in many cases the only stone-and-wood houses in the countryside. Like other rising elites, they created forms of conspicuous consumption to signify their status. The \"mestizos de sangley\" held feasts to commemorate baptisms, weddings, funerals and processions. As the 19th century drew to a close, the colonial Spanish empire in the Philippines was defeated by the rising Western empire of the United States (US).\n\nAfter the Spanish–American War, the US took possession of the Philippines and influenced its culture in turn. The Filipinos, including the mestizos de sangley, were referred to as Little Brown Americans. The Philippines was made a protectorate in relation to the US, with the residents given special status but not US citizenship at the time.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2292305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292305", "title": "Principal variation search", "text": "Principal variation search\n\nPrincipal variation search (sometimes equated with the practically identical NegaScout) is a negamax algorithm that can be faster than alpha-beta pruning. Like alpha-beta pruning, NegaScout is a directional search algorithm for computing the minimax value of a node in a tree. It dominates alpha-beta pruning in the sense that it will never examine a node that can be pruned by alpha-beta; however, it relies on accurate node ordering to capitalize on this advantage.\n\nNegaScout works best when there is a good move ordering. In practice, the move ordering is often determined by previous shallower searches. It produces more cutoffs than alpha-beta by assuming that the first explored node is the best. In other words, it supposes the first node is in the principal variation. Then, it can check whether that is true by searching the remaining nodes with a null window (also known as a scout window; when alpha and beta are equal), which is faster than searching with the regular alpha-beta window. If the proof fails, then the first node was not in the principal variation, and the search continues as normal alpha-beta. Hence, NegaScout works best when the move ordering is good. With a random move ordering, NegaScout will take more time than regular alpha-beta; although it will not explore any nodes alpha-beta did not, it will have to re-search many nodes.\n\nAlexander Reinefeld invented NegaScout several decades after the invention of alpha-beta pruning. He gives a proof of correctness of NegaScout in his book.\n\nAnother search algorithm called SSS* can theoretically result in fewer nodes searched. However, its original formulation has practical issues (in particular, it relies heavily on an OPEN list for storage) and nowadays most chess engines still use a form of NegaScout in their search. Most chess engines use a transposition table in which the relevant part of the search tree is stored. This part of the tree has the same size as SSS*'s OPEN list would have. A reformulation called MT-SSS* allowed it to be implemented as a series of null window calls to Alpha-Beta (or NegaScout) that use a transposition table, and direct comparisons using game playing programs could be made. It did not outperform NegaScout in practice. Yet another search algorithm, which does tend to do better than NegaScout in practice, is the best-first algorithm called MTD-f, although neither algorithm dominates the other. There are trees in which NegaScout searches fewer nodes than SSS* or MTD-f and vice versa.\n\nNegaScout takes after SCOUT, invented by Judea Pearl in 1980, which was the first algorithm to outperform alpha-beta and to be proven asymptotically optimal. Null windows, with β=α+1 in a negamax setting, were invented independently by J.P. Fishburn and used in an algorithm similar to SCOUT in an appendix to his Ph.D. thesis, in a parallel alpha-beta algorithm, and on the last subtree of a search tree root node.\n\nMost of the moves are not acceptable for both players, so we do not need to fully search every node to get the exact score. The exact score is only needed in principal variation (a sequence of moves acceptable for both players) which is expected to propagate down to the root. In iterative deepening search, the previous iteration has already established such a sequence. In a node that has a score that ends up being inside the window, which is called PV-node, we search the first move, which is deemed best, in a full window to establish a bound. That is needed to prove other moves are unacceptable. We conducted a zero window search to test if a move can be better. Since a zero window search is much cheaper, it can save a lot of effort. If we find that a move can raise alpha, we do a re-search with the full window to get the exact score. \n\n function pvs(node, depth, α, β, color) is\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2292317", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292317", "title": "AEC Matador", "text": "AEC Matador\n\nThe AEC Matador was a heavy 4×4 truck and medium artillery tractor built by the Associated Equipment Company for British and Commonwealth forces during the Second World War. AEC had already built a 4×2 lorry, also known as the Matador (all AEC lorries received 'M' names).\n\nThe Matador was distinctive with its flat fronted cab with gently curved roof, wheels at the corners and a flat load carrying area covered by a canvas or tarpaulin tilt. As an artillery tractor, rather than a cargo vehicle, the wooden sides were fixed in place without folding down, but did have a narrow crew door on each side. Two transverse bench seats were provided for the gun crew, accessed through the side doors, at the 1st side bay on the left and the 2nd on the right.\n\nThe cab was framed in ash and clad in steel. It was equipped with a winch (7-ton load in its case) like all artillery tractors. The O853 provided the basis for the 'Dorchester' armoured command vehicle.\n\nAEC also produced a larger 'Marshall' 6×6 vehicle (model O854) based on the 4×4 Matador which were generally, if not officially, also called Matador. The O854 also provided the basis for an armoured command vehicle, the O857.\n\nAbout 9,000 Matadors were built, some going to the Royal Air Force (RAF).\n\nFor the British Army, it fulfilled a role between field artillery tractors (FATs) such as the Morris C8 \"Quad\", which towed smaller guns such as the 25-pounder gun-howitzer, and the Scammell Pioneer, used for towing the 7.2-inch howitzer. It was commonly used to tow the 5.5-inch medium gun and the QF 3.7-inch AA gun. The Matador was found to be a generally useful vehicle and was adapted for other roles, including carrying a 25-pounder gun.\nThe RAF used Matadors in the flat bed form for load carrying. The 6-wheeler Matador Type A with refuelling pumps and equipment by Zwicky Ltd, was used as a refuelling tanker, capable of carrying 2,500 Imperial gallons of fuel and also for towing ashore Short Sunderland flying boats at their stations.\n\nSix armoured flamethrowers, the 'Heavy Cockatrice' on the 6×6 chassis, were used by the RAF for airfield defence.\n\nIn 1942/43, for the North African campaign, some Matadors mounted the 6-pounder anti-tank gun to give the AEC Mk1 Gun Carrier \"Deacon\".\n\nThe Canadian Army used the Matador during the Second World War.\n\nPost-war, the Matador was found in civilian use as a recovery truck, a showman's vehicle, and general contractor use. It was also useful for forestry work because of its good off-road performance. When used as a bus fleet recovery truck, many were fitted with lifting jibs for suspended towing and re-bodied with semi-enclosed bodies, often based on bodywork from scrapped buses.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2292318", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292318", "title": "Jacarezinho, Rio de Janeiro", "text": "Jacarezinho, Rio de Janeiro\n\nJacarezinho is a Brazilian neighborhood and also a favela with more than 60,300 residents living in an area of 40 ha. The place is located in the North Zone of Rio de Janeiro city, and it borders the neighborhoods of Jacaré, Méier, Engenho Novo and Triagem. It is the third largest favela in Rio de Janeiro, only behind Rocinha and Complexo do Alemão. The favela expanded along with the city's industrialization, and it became the biggest favela in Rio de Janeiro by the mid-20th century, with a population of 23,000 in 1960. The crucial element in its growth was the industrial boom in the nearby Méier district after World War II, according to historian by Julio César Pino, author of a book about Jacarezinho.\n\nIt suffers common favela problems, like violence, poverty and drug dealing.\n\nJacarezinho means \"Little Jacaré\", and it is named after Jacaré River. Jacaré is also the Portuguese language name of the yacare caiman, but the river name actually means tortuous, sinuous, and it is not named after the animal.\n\nThe favela's samba school is called Grêmio Recreativo Escola de Samba Unidos do Jacarezinho, and it was founded on June 16, 1966. Its colors are pink and white.\n\nThe famous football player Romário was born in Jacarezinho.\n\n"}
{"id": "2292322", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292322", "title": "Missionary dating", "text": "Missionary dating\n\nMissionary dating is the act of a person of one religious faith, commonly Christianity or Islam, dating a person with differing beliefs for the purpose of changing that person's beliefs or religion.\n\n"}
{"id": "2292327", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292327", "title": "Miles College", "text": "Miles College\n\nMiles College is a private historically black liberal arts college in Fairfield, Alabama. Founded in 1898, it is associated with the Christian Methodist Episcopal Church (CME Church) and a member of the United Negro College Fund.\n\nMiles College began organization efforts in 1893 and was founded in 1898 by the Colored Methodist Episcopal Church. It was chartered as Miles Memorial College, in honor of Bishop William H. Miles. In 1941 the name was changed to Miles College.\n\nIn January 2020, Charles Barkley, who is an Alabama native, donated $1 million to Miles College, under first female President Dr. Bobbie Knight. Barkley's gift is the biggest donation from a single person that the school has ever received. Dr. Knight said the donation will kickstart efforts to raise $100 million so the college can continue functioning.\n\nMiles is accredited by the Commission on Colleges of the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools (for the awarding of baccalaureate degrees), the Alabama State Department of Education, and the Council of Social Work Education. Miles College offers 25 bachelor's degrees in the following divisions: Business and Accounting, Communications, Education, Humanities, Natural Sciences and Mathematics, Social and Behavioral Sciences. Miles College is one of 41 schools in the nation with a Center of Academic Excellence under the office of the Director of National Intelligence.\n\nMiles offers 28 Bachelor Degree programs in six academic divisions to an enrollment of approximately 1,700 students and also offers an honors program for undergraduate students with exceptional academic records.\n\nMiles College purchased the Lloyd Noland Hospital site, which more than doubled the size of the campus. The college completed the construction of a new student activity and dining center, a new welcome and admissions center, and a new 204 bed residence hall. Part of the campus is listed on the National Register of Historic Places.\n\nSloan Alumni Stadium, named after the college's 13th president, Albert J. H. Sloan II was recently expanded, to include a $1 million Environ-Turf field.\n\nOrganizations for students include the Student Government Association, Honors Curriculum, academic clubs, religious organizations, National Pan-Hellenic Council organizations, general interest clubs, a gospel choir, and a concert choir.\n\nThe school operates a radio station WMWI FM 88.7. It was established in 2009 and is licensed to Demopolis, Alabama.\n\nThe Miles College band is known as the Purple Marching Machine (PMM). The Purple Marching Machine was established in 1996, under the direction of Prof. Arthur Means, Jr. There are nearly 200 members in the band now and it is under the direction of Willie Snipes Jr. The band has performed at the Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade, numerous battle of the bands, and for the Atlanta Falcons.\n\nThe marching band is accompanied by the Golden Stars danceline and Steaming Flags color guard.\n\nThe Miles College athletics program competes in the NCAA Division II's Southern Intercollegiate Athletic Conference (SIAC). The program has men's and women's sports that include: basketball, football, volleyball, track, baseball, softball, cross country, and golf. Their mascot is the Golden Bears.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2292361", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292361", "title": "Davidstow", "text": "Davidstow\n\nDavidstow ( (village) and (parish)) is a civil parish and village in north Cornwall, England, United Kingdom. The village is north of Bodmin Moor straddling the A395 road about 3 miles north of Camelford. The hamlets of Hallworthy, Hendraburnick, Tremail and Trewassa are in the parish.\n\n'Davidstow Cheddar' and 'Cathedral City' brands of cheese are produced at Davidstow Creamery which is operated by Dairy Crest using water ultimately from St David's Holy Well, next to the parish church.\n\nA military airfield, RAF Davidstow Moor, was built near the village during the Second World War and was later used as a motor racing circuit.\n\n'Davidstow' means \"David's Place\" and according to legend the church was founded by Saint David in the 6th century, whilst visiting his mother at nearby Altarnun. The church is large but was very much restored in 1875 so that little original work remains inside. Both the nave and the east windows are wider than usual in a Cornish church; a few benchends are interesting, one portrays a bagpiper. The parish is part of the group in the charge of the Rector of Boscastle.\n\nArthur Langdon (1896) records two Cornish crosses in the parish, one at Lambrenny and one at Trevivian.\n\nThe manor of Treglasta was recorded in Domesday Book (1086) when it was held by Robert, Count of Mortain; before 1066 it had been held by Earl Harold. There were 6 hides of land and land for 20 ploughs. The lord had one hide of land with 2 ploughs and 15 serfs. 24 villeins and 20 smallholders had the rest of the land with 12 ploughs. There were 300 acres of pasture, 4 unbroken mares, 4 cattle and 50 sheep. The value of the manor had been 12 silver marks (i.e. £8 sterling) but was in 1086 worth £15-18-4d.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2292375", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292375", "title": "Sport in South Korea", "text": "Sport in South Korea\n\nSouth Korea has traditional sports of its own, as well as sports from different cultures and countries.\n\nTaekwondo, a popular martial sport is often claimed to have historical origins on the Korean peninsula with origins said to have been traced as far back as the 1st century BCE. However, such historical claims are difficult to empirically verify and separate from the influences of neighboring counties. The sport rose to prominence following the end of Japanese occupation with the end of WWII. Formalized rules were established in 1961 and in 1988 the sport became an Olympic event. The name \"Taekwondo\" literally means \"way of foot and fist\", although the modern emphasis lies on the kicks. This may be a way to help legitimize the sport's connection to the traditional practice called Taekkyon, which originated in Korea during the Goguryeo period in the 4th century. Taekkyon uses hands and feet as well as any part of the body; though only open feet and open hands are allowed during competitions. The motions are smoother and more curvilinear than in Taekwondo. Although both disciplines start with the sound \"tae\" in English, there is no relationship.\n\nAlthough there is much controversy regarding the historical origins of many martial disciplines in South Korea, there is little question that, Koreanized or traditional in origin, Korean martial arts and sports have enjoyed considerable success. Styles such as Hapkido, Kuk Sool, Hwarangdo, Han Moo Do, Yudo, Kumdo, Goog-sool, and many others arose quickly out of an independent Korea and have spread to countries around the world. Although they are not as popular as Taekwondo, they each uniquely represent the Korean martial spirit which dates back to antiquity. Unlike Japanese martial arts which often use \"-\"do\"\" at a name's end (meaning \"way\"), traditional Korean martial arts were called \"Mu Sool\" or \"Mu Yea\". This could lead to some confusion since although the \"\"do\"\" in Taekwondo and Hapkido means \"\"way\"\" (as in Karate-do and Aikido), the historical meaning in Hwarangdo is different from the modern usage (also \"way\" like the others). When that martial art was invented in the 1960s, the name was borrowed from an ancient group (\"do\") consisting mainly of the children of the gentry class (\"yangban\") for learning military tactics, leadership, and fighting skills.\n\nA 2019 poll showed that a plurality of 22.7% of South Korean sports fans identified football as their favorite sport, with baseball ranked 2nd at 20.6% of respondents. However, the polling did not indicate the extent to which respondents follow both sports.\n\nBaseball was introduced in 1905 by American missionaries and carries a strong following today. The Korea Professional Baseball league, a 10-team circuit, was established in 1982. Korea won the Gold Medal in baseball at the 2008 Summer Olympics. Korea is also a regular participant in the World Baseball Classic, and is considered one of the best baseball countries in international competition. Several Korean players have gone on to play in Major League Baseball. The domestic KBO League consistently draws 8 million total fans per year, averaging approximately 11,500 spectators per game, both highest among professional spectator sports in South Korea. There is also an active baseball cheering culture in South Korea, with each team having its own method of cheering.\n\nThe national football team became the first team in the Asian Football Confederation to reach the FIFA World Cup semi-finals in the 2002 FIFA World Cup, jointly hosted by South Korea and Japan. The Korea Republic national team (as it is known) has qualified for every World Cup since Mexico 1986, and has broken out of the group stage twice: first in 2002, and again in 2010, when it was defeated by eventual semi-finalist Uruguay in the Round of 16. At the 2012 Summer Olympics, South Korea won the Bronze Medal for football.\n\nSouth Korea, which competes internationally under the name of \"Korea Republic\", has qualified for ten FIFA World Cups including the most recent 2018 tournament (Asian record), and co-hosted the 2002 World Cup, finishing in 4th place. Also in 2010, the country's under-17 women's team won the 2010 FIFA U-17 Women's World Cup in Trinidad and Tobago, claiming South Korea's first-ever title in worldwide FIFA competition. The K-League is the oldest domestic professional football league in Asia. A huge number of tiny amateur football gatherings are active and immensely popular.\n\nAnother sport gaining popularity in South Korea is basketball. Professional basketball teams compete in the Korean Basketball League. The South Korea national basketball team won a record number of 25 medals at the Asian Basketball Championship. The only Korean NBA player to date has been Ha Seung-Jin who played there in 2004-06. Basketball was the most popular sport in South Korea in the 1990s along with baseball, but its popularity has declined since the 2000s.\n\nVolleyball is very popular in South Korea with the V-League being a professional league with men's and women's teams.\n\nSouth Korea has dominated archery at the international level having the most medals in the Olympics and international competitions.\n\nIn recent years, South Korea has performed well in fencing winning many medals from recent Olympic Games and World Championships.\n\nTaekwondo is the most practiced martial in the country and very popular outside of Korea.\n\nGolf is very popular in South Korea. It is often thought that this is linked to the fact that golf is considered a status symbol. Membership in golf clubs in South Korea is considerably more expensive than in Japan or the US. South Korea is especially strong in women's golf; 47 Koreans play on the world's leading women's tour, the LPGA tour in the [United States]. The best-known Korean golfer is Pak Se-ri.\n\nIce skating is also a very popular sport which sees kids even as young as 5 years old starting to compete and getting private coaching on a daily basis. National leadership deliberately focused on short-track speed skating as an area of focus to do well in the Olympics and thus encouraged a culture of skating. The sport was first introduced to the country in 1982 by a Japanese university team who competed in an exhibition event, and the South Korean national team was established three years later, in time for the 1986 Asian Winter Games. By the first half of the 1990s they had become a major power in the sport, with Kim Ki-hoon becoming the country's first Winter Olympic gold medallist at the 1992 Winter Games in the men's 1000 metres, and the team winning five golds and a silver at the 1994 Winter Olympics.\n\nSouth Korea women's national handball team is one of two non-European countries to have won the World Championship and the only one to have captured Olympic gold.\n\nRugby union is played to some degree in South Korea, with the Korean team being currently ranked 30th in the world (as of November 2019) in the current IRB world rankings. Korea have been participating in the Asian Five Nations since 2008 with a 3rd-place finish in 2014. Most of South Korea's national rugby team players play their club rugby in Japan as South Korea doesn't have a professional league. The national rugby sevens side finished third in the Asian qualifier for the 2016 Summer Olympics, reaching the final qualifying tournament, but was unable to proceed past first-round group play in the final qualifier.\n\nKabaddi is a growing sport in South Korea, with the South Korea national kabaddi team ranked 3rd in the world. Nine Korean players are playing in the Pro Kabaddi league in India.\n\nKorean captain Jang Kun Lee is the most famous international player in the Pro Kabaddi league in India and is currently playing for the Bengal Warriors.\n\nIn the 2016 Kabaddi World cup, Korea finished in 3rd place in the tournament, as they lost to Iran in the semi-finals. Korea was the only team to beat the eventual winners and world champions India in the tournament. Korea was also invited to participate in the 2018 Dubai Kabaddi Masters as being among the top 4 Kabaddi playing nations in the world.\n\nCricket is not that common, but South Korea did enter a national team during the 2014 Asian Games which saw them beat the People's Republic of China. Cricket is mostly played by expats and a league only exists in Seoul and the surrounding suburbs; the side for the Asian Games, which could only draw from South Korean citizens, consisted partially of converted baseball players.\n\nTable tennis is popular in South Korea. There are minor leagues in many universities.\n\nE-sports have found a strong home in South Korea, StarCraft professional competition being the largest example of these. Major corporate sponsored teams and leagues have formed in e-Sports, the most notable leagues being the OnGameNet Starleague, the MBCGame StarCraft League (retired), and Proleague. Some television stations are devoted to broadcasting electronic sports, such as Ongamenet, GomTV, and formerly MBCGame. The Korean e-Sports Association, an arm of the Ministry of Culture, Sports and Tourism, was founded in 2000 to promote and regulate esports in the country.\n\nSouth Korea hosted the annual Formula One Korean Grand Prix in Yeongam from 2010 until 2013. However, South Korea has yet to have a driver on the grid.\n\nOn 30 November 2018, Formula E CEO, Alejandro Agag signed an agreement with Moon Jae-sik, chairman of JSM Holdings. South Korea was given the right to hold the Seoul ePrix from 2020 to 2025. It will be first ePrix in South Korea and third Asian country hosting after Hong Kong and China (Beijing and Sanya).\n\nIce hockey is slowly emerging as fans in Anyang city sees sell-out games for Anyang Halla hockey club, which became the first non-Japanese club to win the championship title for Asia League Ice Hockey. South Korea has 4 teams participating in the Asia League Ice Hockey championship.\n\nPopular throughout Asia, Badminton is played by many Koreans. Badminton nets can be found in many outdoor recreation parks. Korean players often reach the finals in regional and world championships. Bowling is a popular sport in South Korea, with many local leagues. Computerized systems are commonplace.\n\nHiking on Korea's many mountains is very popular, particularly among older generations. Hiking is a massive industry for clothing companies and for tourism. Hence hiking trails in South Korea have good infrastructure.\n\nScuba diving is popular on Jeju island.\n\nFishing is a popular activity to do in streams, rivers, and the oceans. There are arranged fishing tours.\n\nKorea's alpine skiing slopes were made known during the 2018 Winter Olympics in PyeongChang. Snowboarding was not allowed in most resorts until recently..\n\nThe 1988 Summer Olympics were celebrated in Seoul from September 17 to October 2, 1988. They were the second Summer Olympic Games to be held in Asia, last hosted in Tokyo in 1964.\n\nAt the Seoul Games, 160 nations were represented by 8391 athletes: 6197 men and 2194 women. 237 events were held. 27221 volunteers helped to prepare the Olympics. 11331 media (4978 written press and 6353 broadcasters) showed the Games all over the world.\n\nThese were the last Olympic Games for two of the world's \"dominating\" sport powers, Soviet Union and East Germany, as both ceased to exist by the next Olympic Games.\n\nNorth Korea, still officially at war with South Korea, and its allies, Albania, Cuba, Madagascar and Seychelles boycotted the games. For differing reasons, Ethiopia, Nicaragua, and Albania (who declared an Olympic-record fourth consecutive boycott) did not participate in the Games. However, the much larger boycotts seen in the previous three Summer Olympics were avoided, resulting in the largest ever number of participating nations to that date.\n\nNorth Korea and South Korea marched together in the 2000 and 2004 Olympics, and were thought likely to do so in 2008, however they did not. (See Sports in North Korea.)\n\nSouth Korea has the distinction amongst Asian countries of collecting more Winter Olympics medals with 45 medals: 23 gold, 14 silver, and 8 bronze. South Korea ranked second in the 2016 Winter Youth Olympics medal table with ten gold medals. But, if they lost the title they followed up with a silver medal.\n\nThe 2018 Winter Olympics took place in Pyeongchang between 9 and 25 February 2018. Pyeongchang won on its third consecutive bid. After a series of large cities (Nagano to Sochi), for the first time since Lillehammer 1994 the Winter Olympics returned to a mountain resort.\n\nThe 2002 FIFA World Cup was held in Korea and Japan with extreme success. More than 10\nmillion Koreans came to the streets to support their team in the semifinals against Germany.\n\nThe 2002 FIFA World Cup was the 17th staging of the FIFA World Cup, held in South Korea and Japan from 31 May to 30 June. It was also the first World Cup held in Asia, and the last in which the golden goal rule was implemented. Brazil won the tournament for a record fifth time, beating Germany 2–0 in the final. Turkey beat South Korea 3–2 in the third place match.\n\n"}
{"id": "2292408", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292408", "title": "Sathyabama Institute of Science and Technology", "text": "Sathyabama Institute of Science and Technology\n\nSathyabama Institute of Science and Technology (SIST), formerly Sathyabama University, is a Christian higher education deemed to be university institute, situated at Chennai, Tamil Nadu, India]. It was founded in 1987 as Sathyabama Engineering College by Jeppiaar and received its deemed to be university status in 2001.\n\n<mapframe latitude=\"12.875986\" longitude=\"80.210924\" zoom=\"13\" width=\"400\" height=\"300\" align=\"right\">\n</mapframe>The university is in Sholinganallur about 15 kilometers from Adyar in Chennai. It has a sprawling campus of 400 acres. The university is located on Rajiv Gandhi Salai (formerly known as Old Mahabalipuram Road and popularly known as IT Corridor).\n\nSathyabama Institute of Science and Technology has been accredited by the National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC) with 'A' Grade.\n\nSATHYABAMA has received ISO 9001:2008 certification.\n\nThe National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) ranked Sathyabama Institute of Science and Technology 37 in the engineering ranking in 2018, 45 among universities and 68 overall.\n\nSathyabama delivers education through the following academic departments for undergraduate courses, awarding degrees in B.E/B.Tech/B.Arch/BDS/MDS:\n\nSathyabama offers visits to companies. Some of the activities like Industrial Visit, Inplant Training, Advisory Bureau for Higher Studies, Entrepreneur Development Cell, Guest Lectures, Foreign Language Classes.\n\nThe Centre for Nanoscience and Nanotechnology was established in January 2006. The Centre was upgraded in 2011 with Advanced research Instrumentation facilities like FE-SEM, XRD, E-beam, DC thermal, RF, AFM, PLD, etc. The centre has a team of Scientists working in the area of Material Sciences, Thin Film Coatings, Nanofabrications, Environmental Nanotechnology, Concrete Research, Marine Biotechnology, Nanobiotechnology and Molecular Medicine, Nanomedical Sciences and Drug Discovery, Polymer Chemistry etc.\n\n"}
{"id": "2292416", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292416", "title": "Lou Scheimer", "text": "Lou Scheimer\n\nLouis Scheimer (October 19, 1928 – October 17, 2013) was an American producer, one of the original founders of Filmation, an animation company, and also credited as an executive producer of many of its cartoons.\n\nScheimer (SHY-mer) was the son of a German-Jew who, according to family legend, had to leave Germany in the early 1920s after punching a young Adolf Hitler in 1921 or 1922, \"well before\" the Beer Hall Putsch.\n\nScheimer graduated from Carnegie Tech University (now Carnegie Mellon University) in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania with a bachelor's degree in Fine Arts in 1952.\n\nEarly in Filmation's history, Scheimer also contributed a number of guest or secondary voices for the various productions. Amongst these was the voice of N'kima, Tarzan's monkey companion in \"Tarzan, Lord of the Jungle\" (1976–81).\n\nHe co-produced \"\", for which he won the Daytime Emmy Award for Outstanding Entertainment - Children's Series.\n\nScheimer played a significant role in the creation of the cartoon \"He-Man and the Masters of the Universe\" and \"BraveStarr\". Aside from being the executive producer, he was also co-credited for the series' musical score under the pseudonym \"Erika Lane\" (which combined the names of his daughter Erika and son Lane), and it had also been used as a character name on the 1967 Filmation series \"Fantastic Voyage\". He became a voice actor for the show (as he had done for many of his company's previous productions), going under the pseudonym \"Erik Gunden\". The last name was taken from his father's original surname: \"Gundenscheimer\" (which was later shortened to Scheimer). The first name was Lou's middle name, which he was not given by his parents, but instead by his wife Jay, who felt that he should have one. Scheimer's contribution to the cast was in fact most notable as he voiced several supporting characters, including Orko (and other characters with a similar \"Smurfs\"-voice), Stratos, King Randor and others.\n\nThe reason producer Lou Scheimer performed the voices for so many supporting characters was that the \"official\" voice actors were contracted to perform no more than three different voices per episode. And since there were usually only three regular cast members working on each show, Lou would fill in the rest of the male cast. This is also why his wife Jay and daughter Erika did various small parts in the first season of \"He-Man\". During the second season of \"He-Man\", and all of \"She-Ra\", Erika Scheimer received an onscreen credit as an actor and also directed the voice actors, and she and her father would record the remaining voices on their own later, because Lou did not see himself as a \"proper\" actor and was ashamed of recording together with the other voice actors due to severe budget restrictions. The pitch of his voice was often changed by using a \"harmonizer\", which could control the pitch without altering the speed of the sound.\n\nThe animated series also pioneered a type of programming known as first-run syndication. Also a first was the storyline being based on an action figure toy; prior to this time, FCC regulations had prohibited any type of children's programming being based on a toy. Scheimer transformed \"He-Man\" from a graphically violent version of \"Conan the Barbarian\" into a pro-social character, who imparted a life lesson to impressionable viewers in each episode.\n\nScheimer's daughter Erika also performed supporting female voices and occasional voice-acting for young boy characters. She would later star in the follow-up series \"She-Ra\", which Scheimer also produced. Lou was also credited for helping to compose the theme music for both the \"He-Man\" and \"She-Ra\" series, under his pseudonym 'Erika Lane'.\n\nIn the late 1990s, Scheimer returned to the field of animation. A Dutch investment company, Dreamweavers, NV., approached Lou with a concept based on an off-kilter Dutchman's renderings of characters aimed at young adults. Scheimer went into production on \"Robin and the Dreamweavers\", an adult animated feature film. Robin, the first human to be born in cyberspace, battles Triple XXX: an evil siren who desires an earthly body, and who gains power through mankind's baser carnal desires. The movie, which has been compared to the majority of Ralph Bakshi's work, was never distributed.\n\nScheimer also provided consultation work for Gang of Seven (G7) Animation.\n\nThe Lou Scheimer Gallery at the ToonSeum, a museum of comic and cartoon art in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, is named in his honor.\n\nScheimer voiced characters for other Filmation cartoons besides \"He-Man\". Most notably, he provided the voice to \"Dumb Donald\" on the long-running \"Fat Albert and the Cosby Kids\". He was also the voice of Legal Eagle and the Brown Hornet's sidekick Stinger. He likewise served as the voice-over narrator during the opening credits of the majority of Filmation shows and cartoons. In \"Jason of Star Command\" and \"Space Academy\", he was consistently heard as generic voices over intercoms. In the live-action series \"The Ghost Busters\", which starred Forrest Tucker alongside Larry Storch with Bob Burns, his was the voice of \"Zero\", the unseen boss of the main characters. Scheimer also provided the voices of Stubby on \"The New Adventures of Gilligan\" (1974), Bat-Mite, the Bat-Computer and Clayface (first two appearances) on \"The New Adventures of Batman\" (1977), Mo on \"Space Sentinels\" (1977), Spinner and Scarab on \"Tarzan and the Super 7\"s \"Web Woman\" (1978), Mighty Mouse on \"The New Adventures of Mighty Mouse and Heckle & Jeckle\" (1979), Tom Cat, Jerry Mouse, Spike, Tuffy, Droopy, Slick Wolf and Barney Bear on \"The Tom and Jerry Comedy Show\" (1980), the Master Sports Computer and Queen Vanda's Computer on \"Sport Billy\" (1980), Gremlin on \"The New Adventures of Flash Gordon\" (1979), Bumper on \"Gilligan's Planet\" (1982), and Tracy the Gorilla on \"Ghostbusters\" (1986).\n\nHe was married to Jay Scheimer until her death in 2009. The couple had one daughter, Erika, and one son, Lane.\n\nScheimer underwent quadruple bypass surgery in the late 1990s and was subsequently diagnosed with Parkinson's disease. He died from the disease at his home in Tarzana, California, on October 17, 2013, two days shy of his 85th birthday.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2292423", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292423", "title": "John Murtagh", "text": "John Murtagh\n\nJohn Richard Murtagh (born 21 July 1967 in Canterbury, New Zealand) is a former cricketer. He captained the New Zealand Under-19 team in three Youth Tests and three Youth ODIs in 1986/7. However, he was not able to make the grade at senior level, playing in only six first-class matches.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2292433", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292433", "title": "Stanley Karnow", "text": "Stanley Karnow\n\nStanley Abram Karnow (February 4, 1925 – January 27, 2013) was an American journalist and historian. He is best known for his writings on the Vietnam War.\n\nAfter serving with the United States Army Air Forces in the China Burma India Theater during World War II, he graduated from Harvard with a bachelor's degree in 1947; in 1947 and 1948 he attended the Sorbonne, and from 1948 to 1949 the Institut d'Études Politiques de Paris. He then began his career in journalism as \"Time\" correspondent in Paris in 1950. After covering Europe, the Middle East, and Africa (where he was North Africa bureau chief in 1958-59), he went to Asia, where he spent the most influential part of his career. He was friends with Anthony Lewis and Bernard Kalb.\n\nHe covered Asia from 1959 until 1974 for \"Time\", \"Life\", the \"Saturday Evening Post\", the \"London Observer\", the \"Washington Post\", and NBC News. Present in Vietnam in July 1959 when the first Americans were killed, he reported on the Vietnam War in its entirety. This landed him a place on the master list of Nixon political opponents. It was during this time that he began to write \"Vietnam: A History\" (1983).\n\nHe was chief correspondent for the 13-hour \"\" series, which premiered on PBS in 1983 and later re-aired on PBS's American Experience; it won six Emmy Awards, a Peabody Award, a George Polk Award and a DuPont-Columbia Award. In 1990, Karnow won the Pulitzer Prize for History for his book \"\". His other books include \"Mao and China: From Revolution to Revolution\", which was nominated for a National Book Award; and \"Paris in the Fifties\" (1997), a memoir history of his own experiences of living in Paris in the 1950s. He also worked for \"The New Republic\" and King Features Syndicate.\n\nLater in life, he tried to write a book on Asians in the United States. A book on Jewish humor progressed only to an outline. He also contemplated a memoir to be titled \"Interesting times\" or \"Out of Asia.\"\n\nStanley Karnow was born in a Jewish family in Brooklyn on Feb. 4, 1925, the son of Harry and Henriette Koeppel Karnow (Karnofsky). He married the famous French journalist Claude Sarraute. They divorced in 1955.\n\nIn 1959, he married Annette Kline, an artist who was working at the time as cultural attaché for the U.S. State Department in Algiers. Annette died of cancer in July 2009. They had a son and a daughter.\n\nKarnow belonged to the Council on Foreign Relations and the American Society of Historians.\n\nKarnow died on January 27, 2013, at his home in Potomac, Maryland, at age 87 of congestive heart failure.\n\n"}
{"id": "2292441", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292441", "title": "Tokyo Drifter", "text": "Tokyo Drifter\n\nThe majority of the film takes place in Tokyo, but portrays the city in a highly stylized manner. The opening sequence consists of a mash of images from metropolitan Tokyo, meant to condense the feeling of the city into one sequence. The film opens in stylized black and white, which becomes vibrant color in all subsequent scenes which served to represent Tokyo after the 1964 Summer Olympics.\n\nAn old Yakuza boss named Kurata decides to retire from his criminal activities and disbands his gang, his fiercely loyal enforcer Tetsuya \"Phoenix Tetsu\" Hondo finds himself unable to enjoy a life outside of organized crime due to being hounded by a rival gang after turning a recruitment offer by its boss Otsuka.\n\nOtsuka sends his hitman \"Viper\" Tatsuzo to kill Tetsu, who evades him and Otsuka's hit squad a number of times with help from a former Otsuka gang member named Kenji. Tetsu later reaches the establishment of Kurata's ally Umetani, who later reveals that Kurata joined forces with Otsuka and placed a bounty on Tetsu's head. A betrayed Tetsu returns to Tokyo for a final confrontation with Otsuka, killing everyone but his former girlfriend Chiharu and Kurata who took his own life to redeem himself. Tetsu rejects Chiharu's plea for her to accompany him on his travels, explaining that he has dedicated himself to the wanderer lifestyle and could not abandon it for another's company.\n\n\nNikkatsu bosses had been warning Suzuki to tone down his bizarre visual style for years and drastically reduced \"Tokyo Drifter\"'s budget in hopes of getting results. This had the opposite effect in that Suzuki and art director Takeo Kimura pushed themselves to new heights of surrealism and absurdity. The studio's next move was to impose the further restriction of filming in black and white on his next two films, which again Suzuki met with even greater bizarreness culminating in his dismissal for \"incomprehensibility\".\n\nBecause of budget limitations, Suzuki had to cut connecting shots out of many fights, leading to a need for more creative camera work.\n\nVarious shots of Tokyo were used to establish the setting as the then-contemporary post-1964 Japan. Suzuki drew inspiration from a wide variety of sources in making \"Tokyo Drifter\", including the musical films of the 1950s, pop art, absurdist comedy, and surrealist film.\n\nSuzuki displays common themes found in Yakuza films, particularly the theme of loyalty, in order to parody the message and presentation of traditional Yakuza films. He uses his depictions of Yakuza relationships to show the inherent weakness of the archetype, particularly the possible abuses of power that can arise from unquestioning allegiance. Further, the common theme of corporate corruption is also parodied through exaggeration when the main character becomes an expendable retainer. The conventions in the film further parody the conformity of theme and structure apparent in all Japanese film, but especially in Yakuza films of the time, particularly its excesses.\n\nThe mise en scène of \"Tokyo Drifter\" is highly stylized. Film reviewer Nikolaos Vryzidis claims that the film crosses over into a number of different genres, but most resembles the avant-garde films occurring in the 1960s.\n\nAt times, the film draws a good deal of inspiration from westerns. The whistling of the main character Tetsu is reminiscent of cowboy heroes. Near the middle of the film, a large bar fight erupts; this scene is meant to directly parody western films, everyone in the saloon joins in the brawl against United States Navy sailors, and comical violence is used where no one is permanently injured, despite the large-scale violence of the scene.\n\nThe majority of the film takes place in Tokyo, but portrays the city in a highly stylized manner. The opening sequence consists of a mash of images from metropolitan Tokyo, meant to condense the feeling of the city into one sequence.\n\nThe film opens in stylized black and white, which becomes vibrant color in all subsequent scenes. This served to represent Tokyo post-1964 Summer Olympics.\n\nVryzidis claims that Suzuki's later films, once the studio gave him more freedom, never reached the same level of artistic quality as \"Tokyo Drifter\", where the studio attempted to impose a large amount of control over the project. Tetsu, the main character of the film, has also been well received. One reviewer commented that he always looks \"cool\", even when he is not the toughest guy in the room.\n\nStephen Barber called the visualization in \"Tokyo Drifter\" \"bizarre and individual\". Douglass Pratt praised the film for its quirkiness and character. He further stated that the plot of the film does not matter so much as \"the gorgeous Pop Art sets, the bizarre musical sequences, the confusing but ballistic action scenes and the film's gunbutt attitude.\"\n\nThe film is considered ahead of its time, as it abandoned the themes of the Ninkyo eiga films popular at the time, and combines with themes from the later Jitsuroku eiga Yakuza films, which disavowed the romantic and nostalgic views of the Yakuza in favor of social criticism.\n\nThe Criterion Collection released the film outside Japan in DVD format in 1999. Criterion also released a Blu-ray version in 2013.\n\nThe film has a recurrent appearance of Tetsu's girlfriend as a lounge singer repeating several times her signature song throughout the film.\n\n"}
{"id": "2292445", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2292445", "title": "Learn to Fly", "text": "Learn to Fly\n\n\"Learn to Fly\" is a song by American rock band Foo Fighters. It was released as the lead single from their third studio album \"There Is Nothing Left to Lose\" (1999), on September 18, 1999. It was the band's first song to enter the \"Billboard\" Hot 100, as well as their second-highest charting song on the Hot 100, peaking at number 19. It also peaked within the top 40 in Australia, Canada, Hungary, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Poland and the United Kingdom. The song's music video won Best Short Form Video award at the 43rd Grammy Awards in 2000.\n\nThe \"Learn to Fly\" single was released as a two-disc CD set in the UK and Australia, as well as in Europe, and promotional singles were also released in other countries such as the US for radio play. In the US, it was the band's first appearance on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100, charting at number 19, and was the band's first number one on the \"Billboard\" Modern Rock Tracks chart. It is also their highest-charting on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 Airplay chart, along with the 1996 hit \"Big Me\", reaching number 13. The song set the record for most weeks (13) at number one on the Canadian rock radio charts.\n\nThe music video for the song was directed by Jesse Peretz and won the Grammy Award for Best Short Form Music Video in 2001.\n\nThe music video for the song takes place on a commercial airliner, parodying the movie \"Airplane!\", and by extension, the films \"Airport 1975\" and its sequel \"Airport '77\". The background elevator music is The Moog Cookbook's version of \"Everlong\". Two airline mechanics (played by Jack Black and Kyle Gass from Tenacious D) smuggle and hide their narcotics known as \"World Domination brand 'Erotic' Sleeping Powder\" in the coffee-maker. This ends up incapacitating everyone who drinks the coffee. The take-off sequence, in addition to the crew members hiding ulterior criminal motives, are a near shot-by-shot homage to the film \"Airport '77\". The band, having avoided the coffee (choosing liquor instead), mirroring Karen Black's role in \"Airport 1975\", find themselves forced to land the plane. For the video, each band member (Dave Grohl, Nate Mendel, and Taylor Hawkins) portrays himself as well as several other roles, including Grohl as an FBI agent who arrests the two mechanics when they attempt to smuggle more of their narcotics.\n\nOn July 30, 2015, a video was published on YouTube of 1,000 Italian musicians in Cesena, Italy all playing and singing the song in unison, followed by a plea for the Foo Fighters to come play a concert in Cesena. By August 16, it had gained more than 33 million views.\n\nOn July 31, Dave Grohl responded, in Italian, thanking the makers for \"the beautiful video\" and adding \"Thank you so much. We're coming, I swear. We'll see each other soon.\" On November 3, 2015, in response, Foo Fighters performed a twenty-seven-song concert in Cesena for approximately 3,000 people, starting their set with \"Learn to Fly\".\n\nThe group assembled for the stunt have performed subsequently under the name Rockin' 1000, and have been described as the \"biggest band in the world.\"\n\nIn August 2015, nearly 16 years after its initial release, the single entered the Austrian Singles Chart at number 69 and the Swiss Singles Chart at number 41.\n\nA live version recorded in Sydney, Australia on January 24, 2000 was released on the Australian \"Generator\" single and CD 1 of \"Breakout\".\n\n\"Learn to Fly\" is a playable track in \"Rock Band\" and was released as DLC for \"Rock Band 4\". The song was also featured in the season 4 \"Scrubs\" episode \"My Unicorn\".\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
